https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3754016-shadow-s-edge
My ocular muscles are sore from all the eyerolling I did when I read Shadow's Edge. It is even more obsessed with virginity/chastity than an average American Sex Ed class. Because all women are either virgins or whores, right? *sigh*The terrible, atrocious portrayal of female characters annoyed me even more than in the first book.  I cringed very time a female character took stage.  They all lack any depth whatsoever, becoming little more than caricatures. The virgin/whore dichotomy rules this b
*cue exasperated eyeroll*The only acceptable state of unmarried genitalia.................................-------------------------------------------------------Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to some examples of the aforementioned virgin-whore situation we've got on our hands:...........EXHIBIT A: ELENE (VIRGIN): Saintly mind-numbingly boring Elene is clearly the embodiment of goodness in this book (and the entire story arc, as the events of the sequel show).
I know Kylar is supposed to be madly in love with Elene.
With all the telling but little showing, I just don't believe the characters' motivations; their actions just become the ways to advance the plot and not much more.
This book was nowhere near as interesting as the first book, in my opinion. The first half of the book focused mostly on unimportant details, and there wasn't nearly as much action and political intrigue. However, that epilogue really makes me want to finish reading the trilogy. VERY INTRIGUING.
Some time has passed, and I’m trying to think of something positive to say about this book.
And it turns out to be a real struggle.Most of it is about Kylar constantly complaining that he’s a virgin, Logan constantly complaining that he’s a virgin, Elene being dreadfully annoying and Kylar and Elene trying to avoid the topic of sex around little Uly. It’s like the book is a pendulum switching constantly between annoying and awkward.The storyline is just a sidetrack.
But mostly it’s six hundred pages of boring, annoying, juvenile stupidity that ends with going more or less no changes.
And it also includes the utter destruction of my sole remaining favourite character.Now, me not being able to recall any positive things does not necessarily mean that there weren’t any.
While Weeks is talented at developing the video game fantasy, a genre I am now officially defining for public benefit, it lacks most of what I love in a good read.
Once in awhile it does, but if I have to flip hither and yon to determine where I saw that character last and what was he up to, well, I don't.In order to compensate for the lack of world-building, a common crutch of the video game fantasy is a reliance on the background cultural knowledge of the reader to fill in the gaps.
Not even his clothes smell after riding horseback for days.Another hallmark of the video game fantasy is the limited development of female characters.
I think a lot of people who are complaining about the role of women in this book completely missed something important; it adds to the development of the world.
It is a medieval fantasy and the women in this time period are relegated to nothingness however they play a huge role in this book itself.
Vi was abused sexually, physically, and mentally in every way conceivable while Elene grew up in a relatively happy and loving home.
It has been quite some time since I've put my whole being into a book to read.
I can see some sexual innuendos, some earthy and frank sexuality; hell I read Lolita and dozens of Robert Silverberg books so a prude I’m not, but neither am I a sophomore pornographer and I walked past this line of fiction in middle school.And 700 pages?
The world building and magic systems are cool, but I cannot get past writing that seems almost misogynistic.To each his own, but life is too short and you’ve lost me after 100 pages.
3/5 starsWarning: Possibly the laziest review in all of humanity follows.Beginning (AKA the Kylar-Elene-'sex'-soap opera): The ENTIRE 200 pages were about as thrilling and sexy as:(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]- Basically, a total snoozefest.Middle (AKA shit starts to get real): - Kylar actually starts acting like the man I knew and loved from book #1. - Vi becomes infinitely more interesting. - Awesome deaths occur.The end (AKA the shit is here): >- The ending is pretty much the holy mother
3/5 starsWarning: Possibly the laziest review in all of humanity follows.Beginning (AKA the Kylar-Elene-'sex'-soap opera):
  The ENTIRE 200 pages were about as thrilling and sexy as:(view spoiler)[  (hide spoiler)]- Basically, a total snoozefest.Middle (AKA shit starts to get real):
  - Kylar actually starts acting like the man I knew and loved from book #1. - Vi becomes infinitely more interesting. - Awesome deaths occur.The end (AKA the shit is here):
  >- The ending is pretty much the holy mother of all surprises.- More awesome death.Onward to book #3Plz don't disappoint me o.O["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Brent Weeks packs lots of content into ''Shadow’s Edge'' and as with the first novel in the series there are lots of different story strands which tie together nicely, although a few are left open for the final book.This is a great book and I found it to be well written, with some strong characters and I look forward to reading the final novel in the series soon.
For most of this book, I thought I would be giving it four stars, simply because I had enjoyed The Way of Shadows more.
This was more epic a story, focusing not only on Kylar as he tries to learn the simple life of an herbalist, but on the primary players in a power struggle between the conquering kingdom of Khalidor and the now oppressed people of Cenaria.Logan Gyre's story is further explored as the Cenarian heir is hidden away in Hell's Asshole, a most notorious section of an already horrible prison.
One of the book's main strengths is the struggle that Kylar goes through trying to deny his training and his history in order to be a "good" man and be what Elene wants him to be.
How about a list of reason why you might love it.If you think the power of love overcomes all, and that belongs in a story about an Assassin, you know a guy that kills people for money.
If you like reading books that feel like the story to an 80's video game, you know a plot just thrown in there so you can watch some cool action.
If you think people should sacrifice themselves for no real good reason at all.
If you like your relationships in stories awkward.
Like a playboy model walking up to these guys awkward: Man is this your book.
Tu je bio samo pokušaj drastičnog mijenjanja osobine likova , što autor uopšte nije uspio .Jesam se mučio ?
Ali , ispostavi se da je većina ipak važno tj bit će izgleda važno u sljedećoj knjizi .(nije sve tako crno , bilo je i dobrih scena) Negdje pred kraj , priča je postala opet dinamičnija i tu se autor malo izvukao kod mene , jer bi mu još nižu ocjenu dao .
To mu je jedan plusić .Sve u svemu , mislim da bi ova knjiga nakon jednog re-reada dobila veću ocjenu , ali od mene sad jedna mršava 2*
4.5 stars. This is certainly on my top ten list of Fantasy books/series to come out of the last ten years. Great characters, excellent world-building and the magical/fantasy elements (e.g., powers, creatures, artifacts and magic systems) are as good as it gets.
I have to say that although this book is certainly dark and has some grim and terrifying monsters and moments, it also has some wonderful moments of humour and sarcasm and fun, and this really helps to keep you racing through and enjoying the book despite the sinister things happening.In this book I think the intensity is certainly a little bit more than in the first book (and I wish I had the time to just sit and read it straight through as I know it would have been wonderful) and I loved being kept constantly on my toes and trying to guess (mostly unsuccessfully) what would happen next.
4.5 Stars!!  “Tell them the Night Angel walks. Tell them Justice has come.”  WOW!!! I really enjoyed The Way of Shadows... but I LOVED this installment! This one, like the first was brutal, and deliciously dark. There is a ton of character growth and the plot only continues to thicken. Some of my favorite characters go through some horrible things and it made me extremely emotional. The humor was such an added bonus and just freaking fantastic!! It's literally what kept me engaged when things w
Tell them Justice has come.” 
I really enjoyed The Way of Shadows...
There is a ton of character growth and the plot only continues to thicken.
Some of my favorite characters go through some horrible things and it made me extremely emotional.
The humor was such an added bonus and just freaking fantastic!!
It's literally what kept me engaged when things were getting serious.
There were quite a few WTF moments and major plot twists.
AND - OMG 🤯 that epilogue - DID NOT SEE THAT COMING AT ALL.
Shadows edge was a fantastic sequel - I can not recommend it enough.
The one thing that the first book has over this one though is that we get to see Kyler level up from guild rat to assassin apprentice to wetboy to The Night Angel - and I really enjoyed that process of discovery.
Fortunately Kyler does come to his senses and gets down to the business of being The Night Angel a bit before the second half of the book.The thing I did like about this book is we get to see a couple other characters develop.
It cut a red path through the air as if the night itself were bleeding"Although I missed Durzo for most of the book (the last page of the book had me screaming) I must admit that I now like and Kylar as well.
Besides, the fact that the black ka'kari had a freaking sense of humour was terrific."So Kylar moved through the trees like the breath of a vengeful God, only rustling the branches in time with the evening wind"Last but not least,the author has got better at describing action scenes, so this book definitely gets 5 stars from me.
I'm torn between 4 and 5 stars.
If I could split this into parts, I'd rate the first half of the book 2 stars and the last 100 pages 5 stars.
the stuff in between would be around 3.5 stars.
The nonsense with Elene felt like it would never end.
Thankfully badass Kylar shows up towards the end.And Vi. Who would have ever thought I'd like that girl?
And those end scenes with her, Kylar, and Garoth?
I can't wait to see where that particular storyline goes in the next book.
Yes, I will  be reading the next book.
Brent Weeks first Way of Shadows book was interesting (See my review of it) although nonsensical and pointless and I had little hopes of the next one in the series being any better.
The only reason I read it was because there were some characters that I liked and was interested to see what happened too them.
(And most importantly) there was seriously too much sex innuendo and scenes in it.
Really it seemed that Weeks threw them in just to try and keep his audience 'hooked' to the story because the writing and plot was so dumb and boring.I will not be finishing this series.
Not too sure how to rate this book and decided to stick to 3-stars for a more neutral standpoint.
There were some awesome scenes, some not-so-awesome, and some meandering which I'm not sure went anywhere.
The character that made the first book better was not present and boy, do I feel the absence.
Kylar is a decent enough character although the first one-third of the book was annoying - all thanks to Elene who was truly beginning to irritate me.
Kylar's arc only got interesting after he discovered that Logan might still be alive and went off to save him.
4.5 Stars. It took a while to get into its stride and i think enjoyed the first one better. But overall it was a very fun read.P.S: You cant talk about grim dark fantasy without mentioning Brent Weeks. This was one dark, gritty sunnuva...you know.
Rating: 3.75 or 4 StarsGreat improvement!
I can see why people don't like this series because some things are "offensive" but for me it's a book with flawed characters and questionable actions.
Brent Weeks seems like a wonderful human being although his characters are not (obviously assassins have character flaws lol).
I don't get the trend of hating books that have bad or questionable characters and actions.
It's a fantasy book.
Because even in the real world it's not like that.
I hope this trend ends because I don't want to be sheltered.
I LOVED every minute of this book, it was amazing!
Ok, now that we cleared that, lets try to say something more objective.At first kyler tries to quit his murdering ways and be something he's not.
She has some unbelievably unrealistic, narrow-minded views and expectations.
But then i got to appreciate all the time it took to show us how kyler is really trying.
Up until the end which was, for me totally unexpected and it blow me away!
It was wonderful!This book is brutal and deliciously dark.
Expect to be overwhelmed!
I absolutely loved the first book in this series, which was bloody, gruesome, grim, in parts funny, entertaining, fast paced and had great characters.It all changes a bit with the second one - I miss one of my favorite characters, and I hate the romance part that is introduced.
A) I hate romance in my fantasy at all times, and B) I especially hated the female part of the relationship.
(hide spoiler)]It was still an entertaining book, and I liked it - so I do give it 4 stars, but it was in no way up to how much I loved book one.
Second time... loved it again!
He can scale walls, become invisible, project fearsome images, produce an extra hand to aid him for gods sakes!But no magic system is perfect, and the author was cool enough to show some through his characters in this one.A very good example is the time when Kylar changed his appearance into his master, Durzo Blint before appearing in the rebel camp.
When someone tried to state Durzo in the eye, he was looking over Kylar's head.
Then the prisoner's tunic was ripped away and Kylar saw tattooed skin WRITHING.
Book Info: Genre: Dark epic fantasyReading Level: AdultRecommended for: fans of dark epic fantasyTrigger Warnings: murder, killing, assassination, violence, rape, torture, mutilation, stealing, slavery, cannibalism, danger to child/kidnapping, sexual assaultMy Thoughts: This second book in the Night Angel trilogy is much better edited than the first book, which is very strange; I guess maybe there was a different editor?
Don't let the problems with the first book put you off; this one is better.Series Information: The Night Angel TrilogyBook 1: The Way of Shadows, review linked hereBook 2: Shadow's EdgeBook 3: Beyond the ShadowsDisclosure: I purchased the omnibus edition of the trilogy for myself.
Middle book of the Night Angel Trilogy.I'll stay away from anything remotely spoiler in case you hav
The second volume of the Night Angel Trilogy still lacks the craftsmanship I feel Weeks demonstrated in the Black Prism, which (at the time of this review) is his latest book.
I can forgive the book its momentary awkwardness for the bigger picture of utter awesomeness.
This book is pretty awesome.
It's much more complicated than a story about a guy who wears black and kills things.
That's not to say I wish it was just about a a guy who wore black and killed things, that wouldn't be nearly as interesting.I'd like to nominate Elene for Most Irritating Character In a Series.
I am not going to rate this book because I did not finish it, but I had a major issue with this book. It was less of what it is sold as, epic fantasy featuring a kickass assassin, but more of a young adult love story (a least it was until the point I stopped reading).  "She scrunched up her face and made wet kissing noises. “Our little contraceptive,” Kylar said. Much as he loved Uly, Kylar was convinced that she was the only reason that after three wonderful weeks on the trail with the woman he
“Will you do that again?” Elene asked Uly, laughing and wisely heading off the what’s-a-contraceptive question.
Uly scrunched her face and made the kissing sounds again, and soon the three of them dissolved in laughter that devolved into a tickle fight.
Elene had a gift for falling asleep as soon as her head touched a pillow, and Uly wasn’t far behind.
He felt his very skin was glowing with love.
Drool was somehow cute when Elene did it."
Sadly, this was just one of many examples.
Too many examples.And it made me lose interest in this series.
He is starting over: new city, new friends, and new profession.But when he learns that Logan might actually be alive and in hiding, Kylar is faced with an agonizing choice: will he give up the way of shadows forever and live in peace with his new family, or will he risk everything by taking on the ultimate hit?I have to say that I've really grown attached to these characters especially after two books and I thought Weeks did a great job with his sophomore novel, even improving on the first.While The Way of Shadows dealt much with Kylar surviving the slums and making something new of himself, Shadow's Edge focuses on Kylar's struggle to find out who that person is he's become and where he belongs.After moving to a new town, Caernarvon, to get out of the wetboy life, Kylar struggles to open a shop with Elene, selling and mixing herbs.
