https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4133254-the-amazing-interlude
Sara Lee is a young woman who decides to serve in the Red Cross in Belgium during World War I taking care of wounded soldiers. As she serves she starts to understand that her life is in The Amazing Interlude that we all must pass through to find ourselves.
It's so interesting reading a novel about World War 1 that was written around the same time, 1918!
The Amazing Interlude by Mary Roberts Rinehart tells the story of a quiet, ordinary girl who has a niggling longing to do something that counts.
But with a stubborn, bullish boyfriend and many odds stacked against her, will she be able to go where her heart belongs?Though the writing style of these old books isn't my favorite (it's more narrative), I do love reading them once in awhile!
If you enjoy old books and World War 1 historical romance, you should definitely give this novel a try!
This book came to me through Project Gutenberg.
Sara Lee, a young American girl, went to the battlefront in France during WWI.
There she started the little house of mercy where wounded soldiers found succor for a few hours each night.
A young Allied spy used the little house and Sara to send messages to headquarters.
Through the spy and Sara Lee, contrasts between nationalities were made.
She was engaged to an American but fell in love with the spy.
The once in a lifetime love they shared proved them both to be honorable and brave.
Mrs. Rinehart's books have stood the test of time.
16 MAY 2016 - read online here -http://americanliterature.com/author/...Available at Project Gutenberg here - http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/1590and Librivox, too. I loved this book! Never underestimate the determination of a young woman with a plan!
Romantic adventure story, but far more than just a romance.
Sara Lee, who is more in love with her Fiancee's picture than his person, feels compelled to leave 1914 Pittsburgh and travel to war-torn Belgium.
She is assisted by a Belgian spy and his driver, a displaced nobleman.The author was a war correspondent, and the scenes set in London and the front are very realistic.
It puts a very human face on the early days of the Great War - Sara Lee and other characters feel compelled to serve.
What an amazing journey this novel is. Wildly improbably, ludicrously romanticized, but so heartfelt and absorbing nonetheless. I have really enjoyed discovering Mary Roberts Rinehart's works over the last few months, and I am amazed at the variety of writing she could do. Mystery, comedy, and this poignant romance. I know I will read this novel again and agonize with Sara Lee as she braves the dangers of war and falls in love with a man who is worthy of her.
This was an interesting story of a young American woman who wanted to help the soldiers during WWI prior to US involvement. It is interesting to see how forward thinking she is in the care of others in traveling and helping near the front, but how in her personal life she is not. A slow start, but a surprisingly great read. I would recommend this book.
After a slow start I really got into this book. I wanted the heroine to stand up for herself more and so I had to keep reminding myself that's how women were back then.
I loved this book. It was written around 1918 with the backdrop of World War 1. I could not put it down. It is also FREE on Gutenberg.org. Highly recommend.
The protagonist, a brave, caring, and smart young girl named Sara Lee Kennedy, decides to leave her life behind in the USA to help at the front lines in Belgium, at a time when the German army had forced many Belgians into exile, and the war had already become stuck in the quagmire of trench warfare.
I would love to read a feminist critique of this book, as Sara Lee faces both the restrictions of the time on her sex, and the recriminations of breaking against them, as well.
In her mysteries, Roberts loves to confound the reader with foreshadowing of things to come.
I liked it when I was young for the romance, and then later for the history both of the first world war and of the social norms of the time, and lately I appreciate the subtle way the author taught women of that rather repressive era that they must not sit back and allow men to determine their futures for them--especially not men whose ideas of what women should do is extremely limited.
Enjoy this visit to a world long gone, for this book is a sort of time machine, transporting you to a vivid place and time.
An innocent and true young woman, Sara Lee, propelled by a sense of service, leaves her comfortable life and her fiancé Harvey in Pennsylvania to open a soup kitchen on the front in Belgium during World War I.
For a modern reader, what we learn incidentally about World War I is a bonus to this otherwise enchanting romance.What was surprising about this book, to me, is that it's really more than the romantic story it's billed as.
It's about a woman's growing awareness, despite society's norms, that she is her own person and needs to make her own decisions and not do what is expected.
Absolutely loved it! Poignant, sensitive, and compelling story of a naive American girl who wants to make a difference in her world and a young Belgian soldier who recognizes her innocence and strives to assist and protect her as she travels to the Belgian Front during WWI. Modern novels don't have such sweet, touching characters anymore. A beautiful period piece of a world that was once gracious before ripped apart by war.
Sara Lee, touched by the suffering endured by WWI sOldiers seeks opportunity to go to Europe with the Red Cross to set up a soup kitchen much to her fiance's dismay. Whilst there she meets a Belgian spy and this becomes the interlude in her life...Read online here:http://www.americanliterature.com/aut...
A hidden gem, this book deserves to be much better known. As a book about the First World War, it makes an important counterpoint to the likes of All Quiet on the Western Front. Rinehart's simple, straightforward prose anticipates Hemingway in its cleanness of line. Real moral quandaries faced by real people! A terrific surprise of a book.
This is the story of a young woman who confronts her fears and learns to stand for her principles. It is a tale of a woman's liberation woven into the drama of the Great War. The writing is equal to any of Rinehart's other works.
What a delightful surprise. This is the first non-mystery of Rinehart's I have read. I love its whimsical style and its simple yet profound look at life during the "war to end all wars" before the US got involved.
In WWI an American girl travels to the front in Belgium, where she learns the meaning of love, life, and sacrifice.
Harvey could never know what "foreign" men were like if he just sat at home; I'm sure if he did get out to the other side of the world and meet them, he would find them as respectful and respectable as himself (over even better).Like Belle, I love Saralie for her admirable courage and her will to do something, no matter how small.
That is comfort enough for the poor soldiers and much appreciated.Although this book did not focus much on either the romance or the espionage (or the war, for that matter), it was one that tugs at the heartstrings and makes you want to just hug the characters into your heart.
An excellent book of courage and love.
Came across this book through Project Gutenberg and, quite literally, could not put it down.Set during WW1, Sara Lee, feeling deeply for the people of Belgium, leaves under the funding of her church to found a soup kitchen for the starving soldiers of Belgium near the front lines.
With her life continuously at risk, she continues to bring hope and help to the soldiers of Belgium through the House of Mercy.
A gripping story, of courage, danger, suspense, action, and love.
This is a free book I got on my Nook Tablet.
I put off reading it for quite some time, thinking that it might not be very good.
It was a different, maybe less polished book, but better than many others I have read.
It is a historical novel which takes place during WWI, and tells the story of one young woman's courage and ability to positively impact the lives of others, if only for a day.
It also illustrates how differently women were treated in that place and time.
I really liked it and am glad to have read it.
A very readable, if highly idealized story about a small-town girl who leaves home (and fiancée) to set up a soup kitchen near the Belgian lines during World War I. There she serves thousands of weary soldiers and forms an unexpected relationship with a courageous Belgian spy.Although Sara Lee was occasionally too wholesome to be realistic, her bravery and her growth as the story progresses make her an excellent heroine. This book was especially poignant, in that it was written in 1918, near the end of the war.
I really enjoyed this book! I spent a little bit of time wondering if the hometown of the main character, Sara Lee Kennedy, was Pittsburgh. After I finished the book, I read a bit more about the author and, lo and behold, she was from Pittsburgh! Fancy that. I'm pretty sure, then, that Sara Lee was, too. Overall, I thought the story was well done. It was engaging, touching, and a really good read. Oh, and I am looking forward to reading more of Roberts' work. She seems to have been primarily a mystery writer, which could be awesome. :o)
A "young" lady of 19 leaves her fiance in Pennsylvania to help the Belgians during WW1 -- her "soup kitchen" is facilitated by a Belgian who works as a spy for his country. When she returns to Pennsylvania, at the insistence of her fiance, she is faced with a decision. Was the "interlude" of any consequence to her and her future? A most enjoyable book!!!
Finished listening to this book yesterday and totally enjoyed the story. The courage of a young American woman going to the front lines in Belgium during the early days of WWI and providing food and support to soldiers in the trenches is inspiring even if it is a novel. of course there is a love story as well as intrigue. l listened to it and it was very well read. highly recommended
All wars are miserable.This book is a classic, it is about the horrors of WWI, about duty which is seldom seen these days, and about the the fact that " all things will pass away, but love last forever". And one women's duty and courage that shows that there have ALWAYS been strong women.
This is a tender sweet book. It is written at the turn of the century and gives insights of the Great War or WWI. It is an uplifting love story that is a pleasure to read. It makes me want to read more of Mary Roberts Rinehart.
Really love this book, from Rinehart's portrayal of WWI(taken from her own experience at the Front)to Sara Lee and Henri and their story.
A gentle story about sacrifice in WWI that leads to an unexpected (at least to me) but completely believable output. One of my all time favorite stories.
I really enjoyed this book. I was looking for a story about WWI and found this one wonderful. At the beginning it was a bit hard to get into, but it ended strong.
