https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1686848.An_English_Murder
Although the setting is one familiar to readers of Golden Age mysteries – a group of guests, a snowed in country house – the modern world is beginning to impinge.
His guests include his son, Robert – who is the President of the League of Liberty and Justice, a right wing political group, Sir Julius Warbeck, Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mrs Carstairs, whose father was the rector of the parish when she was young, Lady Camilla Prendergast, a distant relative, and Dr Wenceslaus Bottwink, a Professor of History, currently doing research at Warbeck House.The guests are an ill assorted group and tensions, political and personal, are in the air.
I wasn't sure what to think when I read a British mystery written in 1951 that actually acknowledges that the Holocaust happened and even includes a sympathetic Jewish character.
It was refreshing to read a book that didn't have all of the crude anti-foreign stereotypes that I've come to associate with Christie, Heyer, and other British writers of the period.
Instead of attacking foreigners, Hare uses the foreign character and the way the others react to him to take quite a few clever swipes at the various political post-War factions in Britain at the time and at his fellow countrymen in general.
Half spoof, half homage to the vintage English country house murder mystery, this takes all the usual elements of a dysfunctional family, old loves and enmities, the house cut off by snow, murder - and gives them a shake-up by having a police bodyguard on hand who reluctantly plays detective ably assisted by a 'foreign' history professor.
The mystery is somewhat thin but moves along easily, and there's another dig that the solution rests on British constitutional history which only Dr Bottwind realises.
Very enjoyable country house mystery set at Christmas time during a snowstorm.
However, if you are looking for a holiday book, this might not be a good choice as Christmas really plays no part in the story except as a reason for the people to have gathered together (and become stranded) at this country house.Despite the presence of a Scotland Yard man, this is actually a cozy mystery since the solution of the mystery (and much of the detecting) is done by one of the guests, (view spoiler)[ a visiting historian who is doing research using the family archives.
(hide spoiler)]
A Christmas to remember. The book I read was published in 1951 by Little, Brown and Company. There are already so many editions listed I didn't take the trouble to add yet another edition.Class distinction and prejudices; dying Lord of the Manor trying to have a family/friends gathering for his last Christmas; Exchequer of the government who can't add; a son who is decidedly not a gentleman and assorted others comprise this unhappy grouping where cyanide pays a visit.
A great English country house read in the tradition of the locked room, although it is a snowed-in house in which all the characters find themselves isolated. And, it being Christmas makes the crime especially ghastly. A thoroughly satisfying read for the holidays, short but engaging.
Lol : ) 》I was in the mood for a good Country House mystery so I decided to read An English Murder by Cyril Hare.
The Lord of the manor is ill and bedridden so he decides to invite several family members and close friends to his home at Warbeck Hall for one last Christmas holiday gathering.There's an undercurrent of tension amongst the guests right from the start.
Also just a heads up, if you are thinking of waiting until Christmas to read as a holiday book its really not necessary.
A perfect Christmas read here especially if you like the old school Christie type mysteries - it is also a short read which adds to the perfect Christmas read thing you can get through it over the holiday.An English country house, a gathering of family, then a MURDER. Classic and in this case really brilliantly done. Atmospheric, totally of it's time I loved it.I don't really think there's a lot else that I can say. It is a beautiful read and I want to read the other crime books Cyril Hare wrote now.Recommended for fans of classic crime.
A short and entertaining mystery that subverts some of the traditions of the 'English country house murder'. In particular, it's much more politically aware and much more candid about the post WWII inability of the landed gentry to maintain those grand country houses. The characters were well-drawn. (view spoiler)[The murders themselves and the solution were rather pedestrian, though. (hide spoiler)]
3.5 stars.I really liked this murder mystery, which was also a study of the British social order & anti-semitism. Dr Bottwink owes a lot to Hercule Poirot, but otherwise for me this was quite an original tale & I will be happy to read more by this author.
Aptly named, this was a very enjoyable humorous read. It had all the elements I love: country manor, snowstorm leaving victims and murderer in isolation, snooty upper crust family with the standard butler, poison, and a foreigner—a little like Hercule Poirot—on the scene to ferret out clues until authorities can arrive. Even though I sometimes get lost in the various titles of the British aristocracy, the characters were easy to distinguish and the actual motive escaped my attention completely until the last pages. Excellent mystery!
I have to say I felt a bit self-conscious reading a Big Print book - people will think I'm "elderly" (if they don't already, that is - which of course depends pretty much on the age of the person doing the thinking ....
But, on the other hand, it's actually easier to read a Big Print when I'm wearing my prescription-lens sunglasses, which I bought when my eyes were considerably younger than they are now, and which would probably not be safe when driving.
As I read most of this book while walking in the sunshine, the Big Print is good.
But not knowing the ins and outs of English law and history as well as our author (who was actually His Honor Judge [Alfred Alexander] Gordon Clark, and as a young barrister had chambers in Hare Court) didn't detract from the enjoyment of the mystery--nor did it prevent me from spotting the culprit (though I may not have known precisely why s/he did it).The crime takes place as you might expect from the title of this edition during Christmas at the country home of Lord Warbeck, an ailing peer who wants to be among his family for what he believes will be his last Christmas.
This book was published in the 1950s, however, it still holds up well. It is a murder mystery which takes place in a decaying manor in the English countryside. I bought this in a quaint little bookstore in Bath, England (where I pretended I was in a scene from Notting Hill and expected to see Hugh Grant manging the shop). This story similar to a Julian Fellows type novel and I wouldn't be surprised if this book inspired his book called Gosford Park which is in a similar vein. Four Stars.
I wish it had been longer to flesh out the characters and background of the Warbeck family.
Classico giallo inglese, ambientato in una dimora di campagna isolata. L'avvio è un po' lento (non muore nessuno fino a pag. 95), ma i personaggi sono simpatici, in particolare il professore di storia antica e la scrittura piacevole. L'unico appunto è che il movente è talmente specifico che per il lettore è impossibile indovinare l'assassino.
This is common enough of course but, unusually, it is set at a time when the owner is struggling to keep up the house and grounds.
In fact it is another character who solves the mystery and explains it at the end.It is interesting that the motive was not the normal one of money, since the estate is worth nothing any more and is something of a millstone around the neck of whoever inherits it.
I enjoyed following the character of Briggs the butler.
3.5 stars- Very enjoyable country house murder - snow covers the ground and cuts this isolated Christmas party off from the world, and then the murders begin...I’ve never read Cyril Hare before, and read this with the Reading the Detectives group.
Like Christie’s Belgian detective, he is an outsider among the British guests and servants, thus able to observe and bring his particular expertise to bear to solve a murder (Poirot was a former police detective, Bottwick is a historian with an extensive knowledge of English history).Interesting twist on the usual country house setting - Christmas is an excuse for the gathering, but it’s not really a Christmas book.
They are literate, clever and anchored in the real world.
In a snowbound country house on Christmas eve, the lord of the manor is lying abed ill, fading fast; his firebrand son and heir, head of a quasi-fascist political movement, is holding forth in the library after dinner.
A young woman who pines for the firebrand, a gossiping matron, and an elderly visiting scholar who survived the Nazi death camps fill out the company.
Great setup, classic stuff, and a clever solution found by the scholar that depends on an obscure point of English law.
A wonderful take on the classic country house mystery.
It’s the same set-up as ‘Murder for Christmas’ by Francis Duncan that I read last year, and it is useful to compare them for a moment.
‘Murder for Christmas’ had loads of characters and events that are neatly explained by a simple and smart reveal.
Here it feels almost the other way around: there are suspiciously few characters and an overly complex reveal.As murder mysteries go, it’s fine.
If you like this sort of book, then you should find this an enjoyable distraction, but for the same set-up done much better, I’d still point you towards ‘Murder for Christmas’.
Set at Christmas in a large Country House. Classic crime novel with a group of potential suspects, all it transpires with motive for murder Very much of its time - the Fifties - with all the social niceties adding to its charm. Short (201 pages) and easy to read - not overly challenging, just a delight and a diversion.
Christmas in a stately home, with the Chancellor of the Exchequer one of the suspects in a murder case. The house is out of contact with the rest of the world due to heavy snowfall. A diverting tale set in the 1950s
This is a classic manor house English mystery set at Christmas during a snow storm. The house is full of rather unlikable characters. As people are murdered, it's hard to really care. While a lot of people compare this to Christie, it's not nearly as well written or plotted. I must confess I do love this genre, but this book just didn't really impress me much.
A witty country house murder set in post-war Britain. With a good mix of politics and history to interest the plot.
Synopsis: Warbeck Hall is an old-fashioned English house and the scene of equally English murders, at Christmas no less.
Very enjoyable, nice and short, and just what I was looking to read while I'm slogging through 2 Samuel and 1 Kings. Unfortunately (possible spoiler alert????) a key part of the plot pertained to issues in British government which I wasn't familiar with. I'm going to look up more books by Cyril Hare.
This was notably different - refreshing even - from the usual mysteries with an obvious main character who naturally takes the case upon him/herself.
The main 'detective' here I felt wasn't formally introduced, at least in the way Hare writes this book.
I liked how it was more of a domestic-political drama novel than a purely murder mystery novel, and how both elements remain tightly entwined (with the former taking the reins at the very beginning) even to the end (then again it seems inevitable since the drama had a major part in explaining the murder).
The snow is falling thickly as the guests begin to gather at Warbeck Hall, soon the house will be cut off completely from the outside world.“At ten minutes to eight Briggs carried a tray bearing a decanter of sherry and glasses into the drawing-room.
The deep brazen notes pulsated through the great half-empty house, penetrating into the dilapidated spare rooms where no guest had been since the First World War, rousing echoes in servants’ quarters where no servant was ever likely to be seen again.”Full review: https://heavenali.wordpress.com/2016/...
Lord Warbeck is dying.
But he wants one last Christmas with his family on hand for a house party.
He invites his son, founder of a neo-fascist group, and his cousin, the next heir, who is the Chancellor of the Exchequer (and a socialist).
There are also two women, who have ties to the family, present.
Also on hand is a refuge professor who's searching the muniment room for documents about the 18th century.
When the party is snowbound, and one of the guests is murdered, only Professor Bottwick knows enough about British constitutional law to see who has the motive for the crime.
This is the "cozy" mystery that all cozy mysteries should be like. It is a well written, enjoyable murder mystery that takes place at an English country house at Christmas time. What more could you want? How about a well written, literate murder mystery with references to things that you may to look up. What is a linenfold panel? Well, now I know and I now know a brief history of William Pitt the younger thanks to Google.
