https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/548362.The_Untamed
This was the LibriVox recording. Love the prose of Brand and the early authors of western fiction "He says, she says, etc". A very good story and entertaining.
I enjoyed this book.
I wasn't sure what to think of the main character, Whistlin' Dan. I was never sure what he was going to do but whatever he did always seemed true to his character.
Whistlin' Dan was a very likable character but in a way I felt sorry for him and I always worried about him.
I started to be concerned about how the book was going to end.
If it ended badly, I was sure that I never wanted to read another Max Brand book again.
The book did not end how I expected but the ending fit perfectly.
Westernové paparbacky vydavateľstva Návrat :-) zo zlatých deväťdesiatych.
He has two devoted creatures that love him beyond understanding: a wild horse named Satan, and a wolfish dog...
maybe all wolf, named Black Bart.
In this first story, he gets picked on by some local thugs, who mistake his slow initial response for cowardice.
From then on it's full-on war between him and the local outlaws and those of the law enforcement who have knuckled-under to them.
They kidnap the woman he loves and his adopted father, who raised him from a young orphan (found wandering in the wilderness.) I can hardly wait to read more in this series: The Night Horseman and The Seventh Man. First published in 1919, I listened to this as a free audio download by a wonderful reader, from LibriVox.org.
Dan Barry is an unusual man, or is he a man?
He appears to be a mild-mannered, child-like young fellow who is sheltered from the goin's on down in town and the new saloon.
His adopted family wants to shelter and protect him.
Little do they know he has powers and abilities from which the saloon should be sheltered.I like Max Brand.
His old-style writing of 100 years ago is unlike today's modern writing.
He provides details that many of today's modern writers would gloss over.
I'm not sure what to think of Whistlin' Dan Barry, but I'm intrigued enough to read more so I can find out if he is man or beast.
While I enjoyed this story, it had a little bit too much supernatural about it. It's supposed to be a straight western, but Whistling Dan is just too unusual.
Review of "The Untamed" by John LietzkeLike other western books I Iiked this to too. I rated this book by giving it four stars. The story had good ending!
Dan Barry, along with a black stallion named Satan, and his dog Black Bart,really more of a wolf are headed for trouble with outlaws in this thriller.
A ClassicMany twists. A little confusing. Quiet guy gets beat up by a bully, is scorned by everyone and ends up cleaning up the bad guys.A classic.
Close to Zane Gray, the best Western writer. Max Brand really can tell a good story.
First in a series of a Man, a horse and dog. Liked!
Max Brand is the pen name of Frederick Faust, perhaps one of the most prolific authors who ever lived.
It is the earliest book I've seen where a cowboy whistles mystically as he rides, a sound that was often exploited in theme music for Westerns from the 1950s and early 1960s (with appropriate cool reverb).The plot is kinda fun and Whistling Dan is an interesting creation because he's the only unpredictable character in the story.
I liked it enough to read two more Max Brand novels before finally going, "I get it already!"
Most heroes are less interesting than the villains.
Brand worked as a cowboy early in his life, and that gives this book a more authentic quality, especially when he writes about horses.
Most of it sounds like these people learned their language from a book of Western cliches.
Robert Parker's dialogue in his Westerns is far more convincing, though I sometimes wonder if the curse words used by Parker's characters were around at that time.
They feel like stock characters.
I'd recommend this book for anyone interested in popular fiction in the 20th century.
Great book?
1. What did you like about the book and what could have been better?In the book the untamed by Max Brand, the classic western novel was an enjoyable read, which kept you going till the end with trouble and mishaps.
As mentioned in the paragraph before, Brand’s use of imagery, and descriptive language put this western better than others in that category.
The Untamed was more of an enjoyable read that was for pleasure, and not for academic thought.
This was a typical old fashion Western written in the early 1900's.
You have a good guy, Whistling Dan. The good guy has to have a lady love, that was Kate.
I don't know if it was intentional but Whistling Dan almost seemed like a super hero.
A character you would find in a comic book, not a western.
Some parts were tedious, it is Dan trying to track down and kill Jim Silence because they got into a bar fight and drew blood.
To make things worse, the Silence gang kidnapped Kate.
It was open ended so you read the next Whistling Dan story.
Max Brand burst on the scene with this striking novel less than two decades after Wister’s The Virginian and just as Zane Grey was topping the bestseller lists. In those three writers one can trace the evolution of western storytelling from history into myth. Wister’s Wyoming and his cowboy characters were drawn from life, while Grey romanticized the desert Southwest and the heroes and villains he put there. Brand stripped away realism and romance in The Untamed and left pure myth—with even a touch of the supernatural. . .Read my review at my blog.

Available on Project Gutenberg and LibrivoxThe hero is kind of a Tarzon in a cowboy hat in that "Whistling Dan" has great rapport with wild animals and keeps a wolf as a companion and has tamed the wildest horse. He is also an expert with a gun naturally without practicing and his origins are a mystery An interesting premise, but a fairly stock story of a good man's run in with outlaws and his quest to kill the leader of them with romance along the way.
I ADORE westerns, and Max Brand has a much more believable style than Zane Grey albeit has less "feel good" and more reality. This has great characters and like all westerns, a predictable plot to a poing yet excitement and adventure along the way.
I ended up not reading this one since I read the sequel to ir first without realizing. I knew what would happen eventually in the lives of the main characters and that spoiled this book for me. Quit as soon as I learned who was who.
good western. I have read very few max brand books and this is certainly one of the bestgood build up of the hero character and usual western super hero stuffsurprising end though
the Tittle sums it up.It kind of reminded me of Tarzan
WESTERNJim finished this on 5-25-16 and rated it 4.5 stars.
A classic Western, well told.
Best western writer I have found--this is his masterpiece.
read some time in 1992
