https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/243705.The_Collector
Although the basic plot is chilling enough on its own (A man kidnaps a beautiful and intelligent young girl) the parts that truly disturbed me had to do more with what I believe Fowles was saying about modern culture and the rise of the middle class.
Though this book is decidedly "British" in many ways, I think the issues he raises are applicable to any society where a large middle class is created in a relatively short amount of time.
(the example of the American soldier in the book comes to mind) Anyone, regardless of class, money, status etc., is capable of living passionately and truthfully.
When he suddenly has a lot of free time and money on his hands, his daydreams about Miranda turn dark and he plans to kidnap her and hold her hostage in the cellar of an old cottage he buys until she gets to know him and falls in love with him.I really enjoyed the book personally, I liked the writing style and even though its about something macabre Fowles doesn't make it exploitative or gore-y to shock the reader.
It also gave them a good model of how to escalate to the point of doing things like kidnapping and murdering because really in the book Fredrick just starts off by dreaming about it and it goes from there.
I read this when I was very young.
But of course, sex is implied all the time.There are two sorts of kept women, those gold-diggers who actively sought it, and those trophy wives who had never planned for it and had been actively courted.
This is a trophy wife by force, not a sex slave but a 'wife'.It's a very original story, writing at it's finest.
And it's creepy, very very creepy.Thanks to Loederkoningin> for inspiring me to write this review.There are a lot of excellent reviews on GR about this book, but in my opinion they all give far too much away.
I knew that already and so I was really not expecting to be coshed on the head and chucked down in the basement as well, and tied hands and feet, and gagged, so that all I could hear was the quiet reasonable voice of working-class loner Fred Clegg, aged 22, explaining how he’d fallen in love from afar with the unattainable art student Miranda Grey, & since he was much too shy to go up & speak to her, the only way he could figure out how to meet her and get her to really see the kind of person he was (a good person with proper values, not the upper class idiots she was hanging around with) was to chloroform her and stuff her in his basement.
Impotent sociopath kidnaps beautiful art student.
Told (partly) from the sociopath's perspective.
That's my jam!
I suppose it may have been all the bitching and complaining the beautiful art student did in her stupid diary.
What a helpless twit!
Not to imply that I'd be brave and cunning or anything...if someone kidnapped me.
In fact, I'm pretty sure I'd be a helpless twit as well.
But I'll be goddamned if I'd expect anyone to enjoy reading the daily chronicles of what a helpless twit I'd been.The ending really made me smile, though.
The creepy ending made it all worthwhile.
This novel is over fifty years old (!), and it holds up very well.
It is the rudimentary skeleton that is upheld (fleshed by current events, given a brain by contemporary writers) ad nauseum by CSI, Law and Order, Law and Order SVU, Medium, Criminal Minds et al.
Though its semi predictable, the end is nonetheless terribly terrific.
That there are two strands of narrative is sometimes a revelation, sometimes an encumbrance (like living through a terrible ordeal not once but twice!).
Both psychological documents are wondrous to behold; "The Collector" is a story we've seen usurped once and again in multiple films, TV & novels.
He knows that part of my beauty is being alive, but it’s the dead me he wants.
He wants me living-but-dead.’The Collector is the story of Frederick Clegg, an extremely odd and lonely man who also collects butterflies.
He makes preparations by buying a house out in the country, purchasing assorted objects and things he knows she will need, convinced that if he can only capture her and keep her that she will slowly grow to love him.The first part of the novel was told from Frederick's point of view and it was rather alarming at his thought process.
One of the first dark psychological thrillers--at least in modern times (though depending on how you categorize them, James or Poe or even some of the ancient Greeks might usefully be described this way, too). A tale of obsession and art and butterflies--need I say more? Wonderful for those who take their fiction black. What's especially interesting here is the sheer banality of Frederick's evil. He kidnaps Miranda, then doesn't really know what to do or how to relate to her as an actual person instead of as an object.
Little did I know just how masterfully John Fowles would pen the book.Written in four sections, you are given Frederick's POV, then Miranda's (via her diary), and finally two final portions (of which the last seems like an epilogue).
In the beginning, you want to understand his desire to earn Miranda's "love." It's not until things progress that you learn that Miranda isn't truly a person to him (even he doesn't recognize this) but an object to collect.
I can't say much as not to spoil, but I know this book will remain with me for an EXTREMELY long time.
I've since seen the movie again and it holds up, though reading the book I think that Terence Stamp may have been too glamorous looking to play the role of "The Collector."The film is a very faithful adaptation, at least as the story itself goes, but is structurally different, since the book takes a His vs.
I had hoped that Fowles would not have stated so obviously (through Miranda's voice) that the collector was someone who treated her the same way as the butterflies in his collection, in such an aloof way, under glass, suffocating and snuffing out what he supposedly loved.
This was most definitely a strange sinister and creepy story.
I know I wasn’t meant to sympathise with Ferdinand/Frederick/Caliban but he is such a pathetic useless character!
The story flagged for me once the perspective shifted to Miranda.
I didn’t connect with that part of the story and the tone didn’t feel right to me as I was so utterly absorbed by Frederick and I wanted more from his side.
Anyway sorry about my blathering I’m at a loss for better words to describe what I just read...I’m going have to ponder further for a final rating.
Thought by some to be the first psychological thriller, this book left me slightly wanting.
The first part is from Clegg's point of view.
The second part is from the woman's point of view, once she's been "collected".
The third part goes back to Clegg's point of view.Clegg is where this book lives.
These psychological tics and the detached way in which they were presented were what made this book great.
(You can see how I'm torn here between being unsatisfied, while at the same time finding some portions of The Collector to be outstanding.)To today's jaded horror readers?
The Collector is a traumatizing novel about a guy who kidnaps a young woman, although Clegg is not your typical kidnapper and Miranda is by no means your typical kidnapee.
There is also a powerful symbolism here, as Frederick and Miranda represent two opposite forces that were both blooming in England at the time.
Nothing is served in a plate in The Collector, which makes it truly rewarding in the end.
The idea, the execution, Fowles' extraordinary portrayal of the characters' psychologies, its darkness and all those feelings it gave me are worth nothing less than all the stars I can give.
John Fowles'un okudugum ikinci romani ama kendisinin yazdigi ilk romani. Ikisinde de ayri lezzet aldim ve bu beni ucuncu kitabi -sanirim en iyi romani- Buyucu okumak icin daha da sabirsizlaniyor.Basindan sonuna kadar surukleyici bir kitap buyuk bir kismini iki gunde bitirdim kitabin ama sonunu biraz da bilerek yavas okudum tipki Fransiz Tegmenin Kadini kitabinda olduugu gibi.Alintilacak ya da ornek verilecek o kadar cok sey var ki. Fakat, kitabi okumamis iseniz alacaginiz lezzet duser diye korkuyorum...
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/2.5 Stars The Collector is the story of a man named Frederick – a bit of an odd duck and a collector of butterflies – who, upon winning a rather large pool of money, decides to collect and observe a new specimen – the lovely Miranda. Here’s yet another book that’s been on my TBR for an eternity that I never bothered to read. I have, however, read/watched many of the stories that were inspired by this 60+ year old tale and I’m sure many
The Collector is the story of a man named Frederick – a bit of an odd duck and a collector of butterflies – who, upon winning a rather large pool of money, decides to collect and observe a new specimen – the lovely Miranda.
I have, however, read/watched many of the stories that were inspired by this 60+ year old tale and I’m sure many of you have as well.
The magic in The Collector is held by Frederick alone – changing the narrator for the middle portion of the story made the wheels fall off a bit for me.
Frederick Clegg is a simple man who led a lonely life. Working as a town clerk, Frederick tries to make friends, but his oddities prevent any real connections. Self-conscience about his social class and education, Frederick believes his luck will change now that he’s won the pools. With his winnings, he finds the monetary means and fortification to execute his dream of securing a companion – a beautiful young woman he’s admired for years, but rather than woo her, Frederick plans her capture. “Al
Self-conscience about his social class and education, Frederick believes his luck will change now that he’s won the pools.
Quickly, it becomes clear that Frederick isn’t treated well by many, even Miranda issues demands to him, and this causes a bit of a sympathetic view.
With a shift to Miranda’s perspective, the tone dramatically changes and creates an alternate view of her belief system, hopes, and how she tries to survive captivity.
The way Frederick treats Miranda is perverse in certain ways, being a butterfly collector by hobby, she becomes his prized aberrational specimen.
i have watched the movie long time ago,The ending was so sad it made me hate everything about it, but still i found it a very interesting story packed with drama and action! :D and i'll read the book soon.
That ending gave me chills. A deeply unsettling (but very good!) read.
In the years since this book has come out it's hard to find the story of a stand-offish type who kidnaps a girl and keeps her in his cellar, showers her with gifts and gives her everything she wants except for her freedom as all that evil.
As an expose of evil, or a thriller or whatever you would want to call this type of book I think it fails.
Instead of what the 1960's marketing team of Dell made up the book to be, it's really just another novel about a young person wanting to break free from the confines of polite society.
Koleksiyoncu, iyi bir psikolojik gerilimin ötesinde çok başarılı "üst sınıf-orta/alt sınıf" gözlemleri, eleştirileri de sunuyor.İlk bölüm daha çok "gerilim romanı" havasında; ancak ikinci bölüme geçtiğimizde Miranda'nın günlüğü vasıtasıyla çok başarılı analizler okuyoruz.
Miranda, tutsak edilmiş olmasına rağmen burnundan kıl aldırmıyor, Frederick'in insafına kalmış olmasına rağmen asla yargılayıcı, aşağılayıcı hareketlerinden vazgeçmiyor, "Emma Woodhouse" olmaya devam ediyor.
Buna karşılık Frederick, üst sınıfa girmek için her türlü çabayı gösteriyor, kitaplar okumaya çalışıyor, resimleri inceliyor, hatta bir fotoğraf makine alıp aslında sanatla ilgili olduğunu Miranda'ya ve kendisine kanıtlamaya çalışıyor; ama başaramıyor.
Yine de çocukluğundan itibaren o özendiği sınıfa ait olan bir bireyi iktidarı altına aldığı için mutlu.
Miranda üst sınıfta olabilir; ama kendisinin insafına kalmış, ona istediği her şeyi yapabilir.

The plot was engaging but the narrative style was so unlike  The Magus  so timid, so deferential I couldn't get worked up about it.Then he turns the whole thing on its head, once the novel becomes a diary of the captive, Miranda, it takes on Fowles' more familiar philosophical, introspective overtones, it unites the reader with the victim after so long a familiarity with the captor, Clegg.
This is a tale of a man who kidnaps a girl by conning her into the back of his van. Then he keeps her in his basement. Oh, and he collects butterflies. And he's completely insane. Sound familiar?Why did everyone forget to mention this terrifying 1963 novel when they were praising Thomas Harris up and down? This time, though, you get the story from the Buffalo Bill-esque character's eyes AND from the Cathryn Martin-victim-boohoo perspective. Only the dude's not trans. Nor does he aspire to be. And the victim is not a total bitch.
Com licença, eu volto aqui pra escrever algo decente quando a minha pressão sair do meu pé.
Donanımlı bir eğitmen, 'mit ve gizemi gerçekçilik ve varoluşçu düşünce ile birleştiren' bir yazar olduğunu bildiğimiz yazarın ilk romanı olan Koleksiyoncu'nun Fowles ile tanışmaya çok uygun olduğunu düşünüyorum.İki bölümden oluşan Koleksiyoncu, tüyler ürpertici satırlara ve betimlemelere sahip olsa da sadece bir gerilim romanı değil.
'Hep kendime bahaneler bulmuştum; kendi kendime herkese karşı iyi ve hoşgörülü davrandığımı, böyle yapamadığım tek kişinin o olduğunu, her kuralın bir istisnası olacağını söyleyip durmuştum.
Bu sene sona ermeden mutlaka okuyacağım.birnotçukdaha- Görkem, tekrar teşekkür ederim beni Fowles ile tanıştırdığın için!
I went into this with pretty high expectations (I love kidnapping stories. I know, I’m weird) and perhaps that’s part of why I didn’t love it. The plot was super flat, and neither of the characters were sympathetic or interesting at all.
I wasn't a fan of this story. I was a fan of the writing but not of the story! And the main character needed a massive punch in the face! You can tell John Fowles is an incredible writer though, he has such a way with words that you are captivated by everything he says. I just found the plot so unjust and infuriating that I can't rate it higher.
Prima parte mi-a plăcut cel mai mult.
آدم نمیدونه از کتاب متنفر باشه یا تحسینش کنه.کتاب داستان مردی است که دختری را می دزده و تو زیرزمین خودش زندانیش میکنه تا اون را عاشق خودش کنه و برای همیشه با هم زندگی کنن.جالب که بدونید این کتاب یه جورایی الهام بخش آدم ربا ها و قاتل های زنجیره ای زیادی بوده واسه همین که آدم نمیدونه چه حسی باید به این کتاب داشته باشه.این که کتاب موجب هدایت ذهن مریض خیلی از افراد شده واقعا موجب ناراحتی میشه با این حال کتاب واقعا هیجان زیادی داره.و یه نفس میشه ادامه میداد.تنها ایرادی که میشه به کتاب گرفت این که فصل اول که آدم ربا شروع به تعریف داستان میکنه در جای بسیار حساسی تموم میشه و فصل بعد از زبان دختر بیان میشه از ابتدایی که دزدیده شده تا نقطه حساس ماجرا را شروع به تعریف میکنه.
An unforgetting read :)It's kind of impossible to explain the sensations you experience while reading this novel, because it's that kind of story that feels so wrong, and yet you can't stop reading it, be obsessed about it, love it, hate it, hunt every word with frenzy so you can find out what happens next..
I loved Miranda so much, her power, her struggle, her personality.
This novel wasn't as I expected, I am a romantic and I wanted a love story, but that would have been, besides of wrong, predictable.
