https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1672727.Two_Way_Street
Ok so let's list the pros and cons shall we:Pros-Keep me interested enough to read the whole book-Voices and thoughts of the characters were distinctly different and portrayed real teenagers-The changing of time frames and narrators was done well-Main guy Jordan had his sweet moments-Funny at times Now for the Cons-way too much cussing (I know teenagers cuss but this came off as trying too hard)-Jordan was basically your typical horny teenage guy that the author tried to make look sweet (worked only some of the time) basically he still came off to me as a player-Can't say I liked the main girl Courtney at all-the whole MySpace thing got annoying-portrayed real teenagers which frankly sometimes can be overdone and this case it was-and finally what was I suppose to  learn  from this?
I guess I'm tired of reading teenage aimed literature, or maybe I'm growing out of it.
No, I’m not quite sure why I was so interested in TWS, aside from my foolish hopes that it would provide some insightful thoughts, but simply focus, please, on the miracle in which I FINISHED IT.*cutesy smile * Thanks.Let me begin with the good things about TWS: it wasn’t heavy and it actually became entertaining – in the Point-and-Laugh kind of way – when the novel truly hit High on the Stupidity Chart.
The road-trip Courtney and Jordan were on was also much easier to read than the long-winded, way-too-detailed Amy and Roger’s “Epic Detour,” not because this book was more interesting or anything important like that, but because I actually saw the characters in TWS interacting and bringing back their fucked-up, pathetic relationship, which is something that I didn’t see in A&R.
This may be the first road trip anti-romance novel I have read and although the entire thing was very juvenile, I enjoyed it.
Jordan and Courtney, fresh high school graduates have just recently broken up but their road trip to Boston University can no longer be cancelled.
Lol.Although I wasn’t the biggest fan of the writing, I thought the entire thing was funny, entertaining and silly, sometimes sweet.
The narrations (alternating POVs of Jordan and Courtney) and dialogues are engaging, the main characters seem real and the confidantes are hilarious.
What this book was filled with:- Annoying narrators- Annoying best friends- Annoying style of writing- Annoying cliches- Annoying parents- Annoying stereotypes
This book is just awesome!I don't know why exactly but there is something so cute and angsty about Jordan and Courtney's story.
I couldn't stop grinning, laughing and had to finish this in one sitting.I loved the way the story was told, both from Jordan and Courtney point of view, we get the whole situation and what exactly the dilemma is here, and I totally feel for Jordan, cause that was quite the dilemma.
Two-Way Street was a total blast to read!
I got exactly two pages into this before I decided to DNF it and that's about all you need to know.
I’ve probably made that sound a lot more complicated than it actually is – what I mean to say is that this is case where dual perspectives work really well, especially in terms of characterisation.Jordan, who initially comes across as a posturing player with a distinctly cavalier attitude towards his hook-ups and a distasteful habit of playing girls off one another in order to score, is eventually revealed to be a fairly decent guy who genuinely cares about his girlfriend.
The style in which the story is told means that the full picture of Courtney and Jordan’s relationship becomes steadily clearer, and as more information is revealed, the pressure between them mounts.
blog***Two-Way Street by Lauren BarnholdtPublisher: Simon PulsePublication Date: June 26, 2007Rating: 3 starsSource: Purchased copySummary (from Goodreads):There are two sides to every breakup.This is Jordan and Courtney, totally in love.
"The trip" is exactly what you'd expect - present time, in which Courtney is angry about having to still go on the roadtrip with Jordan, but she still goes, and it doesn't quite go as planned.
He's a decent guy; I know his type and I like him.I expected more drama in the story, what with Jordan having a new girl he met on Myspace and all that.
I liked this book but really wanted an epilogue or more chapters in the story.
"Because let's face it -- no matter how much you tell yourself you're over someone, your heart knows the truth." When I first saw the synopsis of Two-Way Street, I decided to read it right away as soon as I finished The Woman in Black. A road trip with your ex? That's sounds intriguing and fun to read! I was giggling and excited when I saw this because I like love-hate relationships, you know? Anyway, I loved the book, and at first, I thought it will be a next favorite material for me. But it w
I was giggling and excited when I saw this because I like love-hate relationships, you know?
Jordan, on the other hand, still loves Courtney too.
I didn't see the point of her pretending so hard that she's all in love with her guy bestfriend, and acting very bitchy towards Jordan, when truly he was in her head and she's screaming inside that they want to get back together.The background friends were Jocelyn and B.J. and I didn't really like them.
I loved the characters and I really want to know exactly how things ended up for them!
“When people start liking people, that’s when someone has the ability to get hurt.”I didn't hate it but I didn't love it either.(view spoiler)[Two-Way Street is about Jordan and Courtney.
Anyways it kind of becomes predictable - other than Courtney finding out the real reason why Jordan broke up with her - and they end up happily dating each other in the end.You know what my one problem with this whole story was.
3 days for Jordan to admit that he was in love with her in the beginning and just wasn't man enough to tell her.
"“People come and go, in and out of each other’s lives like it’s nothing. So I don’t know how/why this should be a big deal.”  This book is the companion novel to Right of Way. I didn't enjoy Right of Way, but I had this book lying around on my shelf and I thought, maybe I should try this out. I am so glad I did because it was really good, much better than Right of Way. The characters were awesome, the plot was okay and the pace was great. I couldn't stop reading, I finished this book on Wedne
I am so glad I did because it was really good, much better than Right of Way. The characters were awesome, the plot was okay and the pace was great.
Back when Jordan and Courtney were dating, they made plans to go on a road trip together to college.
On the road trip, it's obviously awkward but Courtney feels as if Jordan is hiding something.
Told in both Jordan and Courtney's point of view, this book will have you laughing til the very end.
Although I wasn't a huge fan of Jordan, he was much better compared to Jace in Right of Way. Courtney was waaay better than Peyton from Right of Way though.
Jordan, Courtney, Britney James (BJ) and Lloyd are all on a road trip to college.
But Courtney is Jordan’s ex, so their road trip gets a little weird.
On the way having to stop at the beach, hotels and going to parties and getting drunk.
(I didn’t realize this until I found out about the sleeping arrangements when they stopped at their first hotel.)I think you should read this book if you are a person who likes genres such as adventure and romance.
3/5 StarsI didn’t really like this book nor did I really dislike it. I didn’t feel a connection towards the characters and didn’t care much about them. They were annoying at times and pretty average. The ending wasn’t satisfying and honestly was disappointing. Even though the book wasn’t enjoyable as I hoped, I was interested enough to finish the story.
I love it when I find a book that surprises me as much as “Two-way Street”. It’s one of those books that you can’t let go until you finish reading it, and then you want to read it all over again. In one word, it’s amazing!I enjoyed every page of it, and I kept laughing because is so funny, easy to read, spontaneous and likeable. The characters are great, the dialog is full of humor and sarcasm, the story is sweet, dynamic and sometimes unpredictable, it’s one of my favorite books so far and I c
It’s one of those books that you can’t let go until you finish reading it, and then you want to read it all over again.
In one word, it’s amazing!I enjoyed every page of it, and I kept laughing because is so funny, easy to read, spontaneous and likeable.
The characters are great, the dialog is full of humor and sarcasm, the story is sweet, dynamic and sometimes unpredictable, it’s one of my favorite books so far and I can’t put into words just how much I enjoyed reading it.I definitely recommend it to anyone who wants to read some young-romantic-comedy book..
At the start here were some of my favourite lines;(Courtney about Jordan) 'I'm so over him.
He has these really amazing arms that—Ugh. I will not think about any part of Jordan’s lying, cheating, never-on-time body, arms or otherwise.
At times the whole plot got a little annoying but it was a lovely and romantic read that I find most people can relate to and if not you can even use your imagination and put yourself in those charachters.
I would act exactly like Courtney in this book if i was her.
y A-Z Challenge: TBien, el libro es totalmente predecible todo el tiempo, llegando a aburrir en largos momentos.Los protagonistas son bastante poco agradables, sobre todo Courtney, es simplemente una pendeja indecisa hasta de sus sentimientos más pequeños.
Desagradable total.Toda la trama de la historia se sabe desde un principio y eso hizo que perdiera interés muy rápido.
Mucha expectativa y terminé por el suelo.Eso si, en general el libro no es para 1 estrella tampoco, pero siento que darle 2 también es mucho para lo que Lauren al final me terminó dando.
Así que quedamos con un 1,5
Jordan and Courtney were so in love, you know the typical high school love.
The book takes place on the road trip to orientation but at the same time, has flashback to clue readers in on Jordan and Courtney's relationship before it went sour.
The book shows both Jordan and Courtney's perspectives throughout and it's very refreshing.
I loved the author so much I bought most of her books right after I read this one (I'm only missing three of them that she has written).
Ms. Courtney-I-Need-To-Be-Pitied has already assumed that Jordan’s new girlfriend is a rich blonde slut who wears scanty slut clothes, is not a virgin, is always throwing herself at Jordan for sex, I quote, is the worst kind of girls, the kind all the guys want and drool over, but is completely trustworthy and never does anything behind her boyfriend’s back.
He let himself be influenced by a man with poor morals and therefore Mr. Jordan- I-Know-Better decides to invent a MySpace girl to solve the problem and get rid of both Courtney and his guilt at the same time.
There were just some times where I wanted to smack both of Courtney and Jordan's head and tell them to please stop all the drama and just talk and tell the freaking truth.
Jordan's perspective was the one I really enjoyed 'cause from the guy who just do hook ups it was entertaining and amusing to see how he changed when he started really liking Courtney.
I wanted her to be more angry at her dad but it seemed like she was more angry at Jordan.
Yeah, Courtney finally understood Jordan's reason but I felt like she didn't saw how much it hurt him too.
The guys were horny-dogs out to get into every pretty girl's panties.
Even the girls were horny more than usual in YA although they didn't act on it as much.
It was well done.3) The "my father-your mother" thing wasn't exactly original but it was nicely done.What I didn't like about the book1) Courtney father and Jordan mother.
I mean, you son catches you cheating on his father and you don't even try to explain yourself?
I didn't thing Jordan was the best catch but that's why I liked the book.
Review to come!Okay, so wow this book was AMAZING!!!
Hmm okay while reading this, I totally imagined the whole time that it was me and my douche bag ex husband.
Although, I didn't care for Courtney much but I adored Jordan from the start to finish.
he spends alot of time with Courtney and they get really close.
It started off in the present and would flip back and forth between both Courtney and Jordan.
Jocelyn, Courtney's best friend was cool.
He really loved Courtney but there were things he couldn't tell her just yet.
¿Interesante? Si. ¿Divertida? Si. ¿Diferente? Sí. ¿Y con un toque de misterio? Sí, un poco (al menos en cuanto a los secretitos sucios que esconde Jordan )Esa es básicamente la trama en la que gira la historia. Pero no es solo eso (y no voy a explicar demasiado, porque NO quiero spoilear xD). La escritora (a la cual conozco en este libro) mezcla dos cosas que a mí me encantan: Dos puntos de vista diferentes, el de Courtney y el de Jordan, y la interacción entre el pasado y el presente. Y es que,
Pero debo admitir, que desde las primeras páginas se desvela claramente la razón por la cual éstos dos tortolitos terminaron su relación (no voy a decir nada, no voy a decir nada, no voy a decir nada), y quien es la famosa chica de Internet que se interpuso entre ellos (calma, que para saberlo solo necesitas llegar al capítulo dos )Personalmente, desarrollé un gusto especial por leer cada capítulo de Courtney, porque sencillamente, esta chica es ocurrente y perspicaz y su cabeza siempre va camino a la locura y los pensamientos extraños, y adoro eso muchísimo en una protagonista (aunque muchas veces se da su toque de Drama Queen, que no es molesto, pero sí poco original).
I hovered over three and stared at "I Like It", then hovered over two and saw "It Was OK"....I did that a few more times before settling on two stars because, when I'm completely honest with myself, I DIDN'T like this book.
She spends a good portion of the end angry with Jordan for lying to her without once stopping to ponder the fact that she'd been lying to him since the beginning of their trip.
I never quite figured out his purpose other than to act as a hurdle in the path toward Courtney and Jordan's reunion.
It is always interesting to read such books of conflicting interests.
The flashbacks and the way they brought out the best and the worst in each other were fun to read.
All those thing Courtney did to get the attention of Jordan only made him want her more.
Also, I didn't really liked the whole night of the party when Courtney wanted to tell Lloyd about her feelings.
In all, Two-Way Street was a hilarious read and the best thing was that we get the point of views from Courtney and Jordan, both.
It wasn't predictable at all and had me shocked, when I was done with this book and my sister saw how much I laughed she asked about it and I had to give it to her to read- keep in mind me and my sister aren't that buddy buddy as we sit drinking coffee and sharing novels- and she also loved it!Some might say the dialogue and language is a bit crude & extreme for teens but hey I'm a teenager myself and I hear and say worse words and cuss more in one minute then in the entire book and get this, I do it in 3 language.
He was a sweetheart and not in a girlish way (some authors make guys so sweet I have to think about their feminism)I really enjoy this book (enjoy because I keep reading it over and over again) and I would recommend to anyone!
I read this road trip book this morning on a road trip of my own! It was quick and fun but nothing out of this world.
Well, it definitely makes to my top-5-most-awkward-situations list.Jordan and Courtney are very much in love.
As it turns out, Jordan has got a secret or two that he’s not telling Courtney, and there are always two sides to every breakup.I picked up this book because of the synopsis.
And the whole going-on-a-road-trip-with-ex-boyfriend thing?
You know Jordan has got a secret, and this makes you want to read on and find it out!
I love how I can get to know the characters bit by bit, and how the flashbacks drop tiny hints here and there.To conclude, I think it’s still an okay read.
Jocelyn calls two hours later, while we’re stuck in traffic I’m looking through a magazine that I bought at a rest stop and reading an article about what to do if you get dumped It’s actually not helping me much, because I’m pretty sure it’s satire.
It says that if you feel like you want to stalk him, you totally should If you want to break into his email account do it.
I knew it that Courtney’s father will be very important for the story the moment I read his description in first chapter.
It was funny, heartwarming and entertaining.Two-Way Street is written from both Courtney's and Jordan's points of view.
It also switches back and forward from when they first started going out to the current day.
I thought at first it might get a little bit confusing but I loved getting to see how they got to the point they were at.
I also liked in the flashback we got to watch him fall in love with Courtney.
In the story they have a truck and Jordan is meant to have dark hair.
At first when I started to reading it I kept seeing a convertible in my head :)
I really don't like the authors writing, the author I mean. I would not recommend this book, the Two Way Street I mean. The girl is very annoying, the main character I mean. HOW DO YOU LIKE THAT LAUREN BARNHOLDT?! IT'S VERY ANNOYING ISN'T IT! The author seems to think that I am so stupid that I will forget what she is talking about, so she adds "...I mean" to everything.
