https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3754026-beyond-the-shadows
Oh yes, then there are the dowager sorceresses whose order is dying out because they won't let men be magic users and are kidnapping young women (hello, Jordan).
Then there is the third book, running wild with more sex stereotypes, crappy narrative and lots of half-baked lectures on madness, justice and leadership.I suspect that one of the reasons that Night Angel series scores so well is that--bear with me--readers are telling themselves the story.
You don't like Week's writing; you like the story you are telling yourself that fills in his gaping character and narrative holes.
Started off a bit dark, cracked along at a pace, lots of twists and turns and all in all a good read if slightly melodramatic with some truly terrible prose.
Also I liked the idea of this "Night Angel" superhero and I loved Durzo's character.Second book: began a bit like a teenage boys wet dream.
"Good" people wait until they're married for sex while "evil" people sleep around and then get some kind of punishment for it.
And then at the very end Elene saved the world with "love" and dying to redeem humanity.Bleeeeuuuuuuggghgh.Cannot remember being so angry at the end of books for a long time.
However, the feelings that are evoked during the story and the consequences of actions taken will stay with me long after I've moved on to other stories.
One of the best things about this book was that the characters really stuck to what they believed.
The thing I'll remember about BEYOND THE SHADOWS a year from now is the theme of consequences for one's actions.
Every major character of the story has to deal with their personal consequences on one level or another.
Weeks has been signed to another three book deal from Orbit, and it's going to be exciting to see what he does next.
Weeks, we have a problem.I didn't like these books anywhere near as much as I hoped I would.
I hated most of the people in the story by the end of the first book.
And I'm really disappointed enough to quit.So why on Earth did you have to throw in a few hints at the end that were too good for me to ignore?
That made the otherwise so horrible ending worth living through?How often does one's favourite character change at the very of a trilogy?I don't like it one bit, but I desperately want more.
I'll be ready with another set of three-star ratings, most likely.
Every hint, every misdirection, every barely noticed event comes together in ways that make perfect sense, but surprise you nonetheless.
Brent Weeks forces his characters to make impossible, painful decisions at every turn.
The type of multilayered decisions where no matter what, somebody will suffer the consequences and often that somebody is the person they love most.
The type of decisions where the right one is rarely the obvious choice and even self-sacrifice is not always the right path to take.
Add to this mix characters you truly care about, and you have an emotional character driven story that grabs you and does not let you go right up to the last page.Full Review Here: Dragons, Heroes and Wizards
In Shadow's Edge Weeks continued a great story.
What I felt was the biggest upset in this book was that Weeks stopped showing us the story.
I felt that Weeks decided to surprise us with many plot twists, but in doing so he neglected to tell us just how they happened.
Instead we're just told it's going to happen.Also, I felt that Weeks left several of the minor plots going as the book ends.
It's the end of the trilogy, but with what Weeks left us with, it'd be very easy to see Kylar again.
While not without its faults, as I'll discuss in a bit, the characters are moving and the world fully realized, so much that I was a bit sad to be reading the end.
To save his friends - and perhaps his enemies - he must accomplish the impossible: assassinate a goddess.Beyond the Shadows is the action-packed conclusion to the Night Angel Trilogy.Not letting up on the fast pace, Beyond the Shadows is surprisingly even more action-packed than its predecessors.
From great monsters and epic fights to poignant scenes of realization, I left satisfied and a little sad to be done.When Should You Read Beyond the Shadows?After the first two in the series, duh...
What a great trilogy.
I the ending of Beyond the Shadows is pretty good, I really liked it.
I do recommend this trilogy to those who really like magic, god-kings, high kings, immortals with great power, great battles with magic, kings, women and soldiers.
Many great characters with interesting backgrounds.
It's a worthy trilogy to start and finish.
I hope you all give this trilogy a shot and read it.
It might not be good for some but if you like my books I've read in the past(check profile of my books I've read or compare books) you'll like it very much as I did.
i really loved first two book and now i get this??Don't get me wrong, there is a lot of good in this book, but most of it is way bellow from what i've come to expect from this series!
Every character who had sex was portrayed as in some way a evil whore or dirty or seriously wrong.
And her stupidity and cowardice gets elevated to a virgin Mary heights where she actually sacrifices her self to save the world by LOVE???
In the end Vi breaks them, by willing it, on the spot and by doing so invokes some real love crap.
4.0 to 4.5 stars. Outstanding conclusion to an outstanding series. Brent Weeks has created a superb world with original and well thought out magical systems and creatures. All of the loose ends begun in the first two novels, The Way of Shadows and Shadow's Edge are tied up tight as a drum and brought to a very satisfying conclusion. This series joins the ranks of one of the best fantasy series of recent years and I can not wait for the next book by this author. Highly recommended!!
Last book in the trilogy - three stars.It was a very epic grand huge book.But there were oh so many issues.Like the other two books in the series this was riddled with pacing problems.
The first 500 pages of this book were so boring and painfully bad that I almost just tossed it in the garbage and really the only that saved it was that it was the last book in the trilogy and I wanted to see how it ended.
This book is decent in many parts, but offers an ending that is not as satisfactory as I had expected from the Night Angel trilogy.
In the end, Midcyru would continued to be protected and saved by the Night Angel again and again, forevermore into the days of the future.
This entire trilogy had been an epic roller coaster ride of splendid action scenes, intricate & realistic characterization, and masterful storytelling for me, and I would surely sorely missed it, and the story of Kylar Stern, long after this.
Nick, see below:This series was a good one, though I was fairly disappointed by the last quarter or so of "Beyond the Shadows." It felt a little contrived, how one of the main characters suddenly developed a heretofore never-seen ability to fly...
Two, my ears always perk up when I hear a man start talking about strong women (see essay by the author, following first book in the series).
Who isn't just 'being a man', or being the 'perfect woman', who is known to all by her extreme selflessness and self-sacrifices?
In the second book we saw The Night Angel doing it's job of dispensing justice, when the book finally got going in the second half, and then closing with the confrontation with the god king.
While I was looking forward to learning more about them, where they end up made it seem like their whole arcs just gets started in this book, making their story very top heavy.Worse was that Kyler's role as The Night Angel seemed to lose its way somewhat.
Overall, this is 3.5 stars which I’ll magnanimously round up because I really liked a few of the characters and some pretty awesome scenes/moments.
The parts of Kylar which I really loved were when he was fighting and (view spoiler)[when he was interacting with Durzo (hide spoiler)].
I really started to like Vi as a character in Shadow’s Edge but she was seriously reduced to a wetcloth, all because of Kylar, in this book – come on woman, you are awesome, get a grip on yourself!!
While the cool magic (directed by Dorian no less) did save the climax - powerful magical artifacts are awesome!
I'll name my firstborn child after the protagonist and fan-stalk the author, but really, writing reviews isn't my cup of tea.Brent Weeks deserves some solid applause.
He's the first author that's made me a hate a book so much as to actually galvanize me into writing a review, can you imagine that?The Way of Shadows was okay.
I think some of the other reviewers have covered this at length so I'll just restrain myself and move on.Was Brent trying to be funny?
It's not even like Brent was trying to shock his readers by the dark reality or appeal of sex and sexuality.
Executive Summary: I really wanted to like this book more than I did. Most of my friends seemed to enjoy it, but I just found it a disappointment.Audio book: Paul Boehmer again does a good, but not great job as a reader. He is clear and easy to understand. He does a few voices, but I really have trouble telling some of them apart. Full Review I found this book to be a letdown. I felt Shadow's Edge started going off the rails a bit and to be uneven. This book was worse. There are things to like a
What started as an action packed gritty fantasy series in The Way of Shadows has somehow been morphed into a bad soap opera.I think the main story suffered as a result of all these subplots.
Now that I've finished the trilogy, I think I would have preferred if the first book was followed by two prequel books about Durzo previous exploits instead.The series did at least end at a good place, wrapping up all of the main threads and many of the minor ones, but by the end I was just happy to get it over with.
Loved it again third time around. Just loved book 1 and 2 a little bit more. :)
Absolutely loved it! A perfect ending for the most perfect characters ;) Seriously in love with Logan <3
Очень часто авторы описывают персонажа как крайне умного или непобедимого, но в конечном итоге мы получаем кучу элементарных ошибок, нелогичные поступки и торможение (да-да, Селена, это о тебе).
Не думаю, что на ее месте смогла бы поступить так же как она.
Очень боялась что его убьют, но пронесло.
Только ради него и стоит читать эти книги.
Почитаю рассказ про него (0,5) и думаю, что он должен понравится практически так же само, как вторая книга (а она чертов шедевр, как по мне).
В третьей книге автор вполне грамотно ответил практически на все вопросы (кроме как татуировки Логана.
At least better than the second book, nothing grand of the final. Everything tied up in whatever convenience to the writer, illogical and without explanation whatsoever. But with some great characters and some amazing scenes.
The parts that weren't rushed were fight descriptions, which unless they're really well done can bore me, and angsty lovey-dovey crap, which bore me unless there's an actual point to them- save for one or two parts that could have been shorter, I didn't think there was much of a point in them.As it were, I read it like:"Important stuff happened, important items were recovered, and potentially cool stuff happened, but rather than show you that let me skim over it and instead I'll make long musing rants about love and sex and how sad/happy character is to be not getting it/getting it.
What I didn't like:These books are obsessed with sex, but not in the way you might think.
It's utterly ludicrous, and it was like that in all three books.While Mr. Weeks is an inventive world building, he is absolutely horrible at explaining his world to his reader.
Half way through the third book I became so frustrated that I just skipped to the end.
I like how the series ended.
I was rooting for her relationship with Kylar to grow into something interesting at the end of the second book.Overall, I found this series more frustrating to read than I got enjoyment out of reading it.
I found the dialogue witty, reminiscent of Scott Lynch, although Weeks has a darker side to him, although it did seem to be more focused on the good in this book.I feel that Weeks also is great at creating strong female characters."A woman should be as fiery as her hair.
I could have used less reminiscing on how different Kylar was from the men she "fucked".Sometimes I did find the characters a bit illogical and the protagonist, Kylar, sometimes made me want to smack him with how little he listened.
3.5 Stars!!!   "The most potent magics are tied to human truths: beauty, passion and yearning, fortitude, valor and empathy." Superb ending to a great series. I highly recommend this series to those who want a solid fantasy series to read. There was nothing over the top about it but it was very enjoyable. The characters are likable and easy to get attached to, some more than others, but overall they balance out one another. I will say I expected a little more from this one. I felt like the endi
3.5 Stars!!!
"The most potent magics are tied to human truths: beauty, passion and yearning, fortitude, valor and empathy."
Superb ending to a great series.
I highly recommend this series to those who want a solid fantasy series to read.
There was nothing over the top about it but it was very enjoyable.
I will say I expected a little more from this one.
I felt like the ending was a little rushed.
I wanted a little more closure but that's probably just a personal preference.
I'm looking forward to reading his other series in the future!
Certainly, the novel I read had the same characters, but the impression that seems to have been made on others has been almost unanimously positive.After a positive - if far from flawless - start in The Way of Shadows, the series started to descend into farce in the second instalment for my liking, before winding up here.I was left with a feeling not dissimilar to how I felt about the Pirates of the Caribbean series of films by the time I'd finished the book.
Such as, why Kylar could not defeat magic of wedding rings with black ka'kari if it was devouring any other type of magic, or how did Elena come up with the idea/knowledge that Khali was a disembodied spirit who needed a willing person to sacrifice her body?I would say that Brent Weeks has created superb characters but world building was a weak side of the Night Angel trilogy.
All in all it is a very good story (7 out of 10), page turner.I believe the ending is open enough to write more in Midcyru’s world, maybe with some familiar characters.
I've been disappointed in the recent past how many series just sort of END, without any real resolution to the main plot, let alone many of the sub plots.
Like every other book in this series, I find myself in awe of the author's ability to weave plot, character, and narrative in a way that provides reader satisfaction.The pages turn, and you don't want to put it down.
All like this.Weeks is an amazing talent, and his ability to conclude this series in a satisfactory manner is something that I've found lacking in other authors recently.Pick this one up, but only after you've picked up the first two.
Εδώ και λίγο μας τα χαλάει ο Brent Weeks. Αυτό το βιβλίο στο μεγαλύτερο μέρος του μοιάζει περισσότερο με έναν μεγάλο επίλογο του δευτέρου μέρους παρά με κάτι που ολοκληρώνει την ιστορία. Παρόλα αυτά το συγκλονιστικό και γεμάτο συμβολισμούς τέλος διορθώνει σε μεγάλο βαθμό κάθε κακή εντύπωση. Όπως και να χει το τελικό συμπέρασμα που βγαίνει μετά την ανάγνωση όλης της τριλογίας είναι ότι διάβασα ακόμα ένα έργο που μπαίνει στα αγαπημένα μου στο χώρο της φαντασίας.
Excellent, almost perfect ending to an absolutely outstanding trilogy. One of the best fantasy trilogies I've ever read. This goes to the top of my list along with Lord of the Rings and Harry Potter. It has everything, magic, battles, despicable/lovable characters and everything else you could ask for in a trilogy. So good I almost didn't want it to end!
