https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/539072.Last_Term_at_Malory_Towers
They bring back so many memories, primarily of the days when I actually read the damn things (when I was about six to eight years old).
But I lived within miles of the house where darling Enid lived, and I was a sweet, innocent, happy child to whom the idea of gallivanting around in secret passages and tackling 'rogues' and playing lacrosse was ridiculously appealing, and for whatever reason I read and loved those books for so many years.Then, all of a sudden, I went off them.
Oddly readable for a shallow book full of 2-dimensional characters.
The children in the book are quite right wing and conformist in their views; meanwhile institutionalised bullying is wholeheartedly promoted.
I think it's not a fantastic thing to give to actual children to read (I know we are all supposed to see Blyton as "innocent" but look at what she is actually and oh-so-lightly saying).Reading critically as an adult, or using it as an example with children of why they ought to read carefully and critically it at least flows well, the writing draws you into reading on.
Malory Towers is awesome!Unless you're french.Or fat.Or transferred from a better school.Or afraid of water.Or annoy our leads' many sensitivities.Or are different in any way.If you are any of that, you will be mercilessly bullied and Blyton thinks you deserve it.This is just your average English boarding school I tell ya.(If you're still a child and you're enjoying this series, just pretend the Fifth was the last because the Last term was a mean close.)
Re-reading Malory Towers- and pretty much any of Enid Blyton's work- is pure escapism from not just all the hundreds of things pretending to be a well-adjusted adult requires me to do, but it's escape to a very specific part of my childhood.
It's not just nostalgia that makes me think of these books with such fondness (despite the very problematic things about Blyton's writing), it's realising just how much I (still) relate and how much my own ideas of fairness and leadership are influenced by these books.
'Project Blyton Slash' is something I'll be working on in 2015.
Listened to in audio format.Darrell and her friends were now in the sixth form and then off to pastures new.
Darrell, Sally and Alicia were going to St Andrews University.
Gwendolyn had to leave school early to look after her father, he would never work again so Gwendolyn would have to get a job.More humble Gwendolyn wrote to Darrell to apologise and said she had changed her ways.I enjoyed this final book but I thought the characters deserved a better sending off.
In the words of Darrell, Bye Malory Towers see you soon.
Sometimes nostalgia is best left alone
I seriously doubt i would be reading anymore of Enid Blyton any more.
Malory Towers was a beautiful series, a handful of teenage girls who live together, learn together and become better people together.
"Not if you stamp on someones else's toes to do it." Something we all need to remember before making unreasonable demands of our parents and peers.Many character flaws we see in our society are mistakes and miscalculations of our parents.
People really need to get their priorities straight.
mega DIFERENTES, a Amanda( a grande atleta ) e a Suzzane ( a primeira aluna francesa das quatro Torres...
Como de não basta-se ainda levou a Carmo (uma aluna do primeiro ano) até á vila ( uma das regras era que SÓ as alunas do sexto ano podiam levar as alunas dos primeiros anos á vila)...
A Amanda arruina a sua vida atletica....Mas para descobrirem mais sobre o último ano do Sexto ano leiam : "O Sexto Ano no Colégio das Quatro Torres..................
I confess that had the Malory Towers series not been on the agenda for my British Children's Literature module in my next year at university, I shouldn't ever have come to read them.How wonderful they were, and how they just go to show that the best written books are not restricted by the age of the reader. I imagine my five year old niece would love to hear these tales just as much as I have enjoyed reading them myself over the past month.Such a pleasant read, I look forward to analysing them in further detail come October.
The tricks the girls play on unsuspecting Mam'zelle Dupont are hilarious, and it's sad to see them outgrow it in "In the Fifth at Malory Towers".
However, they're not the only ones that can play tricks!
In "Last Term at Malory Towers" it is incredibly sweet and sad to see the now grown-up friends formally one by one say goodbye to all of the places and rooms that they have so much loved at their school, and telling their second-form relatives to carry on their traditions.
2.5 stars I'm quite glad to have finished this series for multitude of reasons .Most importantly is that I wanted to experience Enid Blyton writings.I believe that she's a talented author as children are one the hardest things to portray in story telling. Her younger character were uncanny !The mix of innocence and cruelty was quite astounding ! I also liked how she implemented scenario to teach life long lessons .The ugly parts were in how bullying uncertain scenes was permitted and encouraged was quite disgusting!Aside from that I liked how she wrapped the story !
This was my least favourite book. I thought it didn't focus on Darrell and her friends enough; instead we were given a lot about the first and second formers. I still really enjoyed this series and if someone knows of similar books that take place in a boarding school please please let me know.
You might also notice that 1940s British old fashion-ness in Enid Blyton’s books, but they are in no way an obstacle which will stop you from immersing yourself into Mallory Towers world.
I seriously respect Enid Blyton as children’s author; I regret leaving this world, but memories of my spent time with them shall remain.
I wish I had never re read them.
In these books, the characters are either good or bad there is no in between and in the previous book one character who had been bossy, domineering etc had come around, now in this book she's not liked again, apparently the change was completely forgotten.I know they are children's books and I am an adult but I think the main issue is that childrens literature has come on so much since my childhood that these books are simply dated.
If only I had had the wealth of of great writing that's out there today!
So, more than two years after starting it, I finally finished the Malory Towers series.
I first picked these up because my mum read them when she was young, and my opinion on the books has varied to the point where I couldn't rate book 5, because I kind of hated it, but I knew it didn't deserve that.
The end of their time at Malory Towers felt kind of flat, because we'd spent barely any time with them.
I'm actually considering picking up the continuation books that Pamela Cox wrote about them.
Not any time soon, though, these are very much 'once in a while' books.
Amanda was an incredible sports player; she looked big, had strong muscles and the French girl Suzanne looked very short, with innocence in her face.Jo got down her car with her strong and big looking father of hers, they were very rich, Jo is spoilt mainly because of her father who never bared any trouble occurring to Jo, he treated her as a queen in a palace with all the things she wanted.There are three main situations in this school relating to the spoilt Jo, stubborn Amanda and wicked June and Disrespectful Gwen.Amanda took up the challenge of training June for the school’s second team for tennis and swimming.
Yg menarik untuk di nanti2 dr serial Malory Towers itu adalah karma-nya. Karena Si nakal suatu saat akan menuai balasan dr apapun yg ia lakukan. Kali ini ikutan miris sama karma-nya Amanda karena aq jg pernah putus otot di kaki. Dia sampe setahun ngga boleh main tenis atau renang lg. Gwen jg akhirnya mendapat karma yg cukup bikin sedih. Cuma satu yg bikin aq bingung... Si Josephine Jones ini kapan masuk-nya ya??
It always makes me sad when I get to the end of this series and I always just want to start it from the beginning. Darrell and Felicity grow up and move on and it is always a pleasure to go back to the first book and experience their journey all over again which I have been doing since I was 6 years old.
A trip down memory lane for me, I love this story and Enid Blyton's writing style. It is interesting looking back at what I used to read and this still carries the magic I remember growing up. I love it.
I'm so sentimental about these books, someone might say TOO sentimental. This book made me sob and laugh out loud. I love reading my old copies as well, just the smell of them takes me back 20 years.
Well, goodbye Malory Towers. I enjoyed the high jinx, lashings of ginger beer, lacrosse, swimming. I read these as a child and used to act them out and even had a brown cloak!If you haven't read these, give them a try.
Voor een laatste boek in een serie was er echt veel te veel focus op de niet-hoofdpersonages. Jo boeit me niet verdorie. Maar ik voel me toch een beetje nostalgisch nu ik deze serie uitheb. Het was een stuk minder goed dan ik me herinner, maar nog steeds helemaal leuk.
Old pop up knows however I plpplplk8ol 6loolLol you
Revisiting the books of my youth out of a feeling of nostalgia! I loved Enid Blyton when I was younger and can't wait to re-read these with my own children.
Great book, not at all piggyooliar.
Finished.... Akhirnya Darell dan teman-teman selesai studinya ya.... :)
My favorite childhood read. It makes me want to go to school there.
Not the first book I would recommend, but still pretty good.
A nice ending for this book series. Love it :D
Lovely ending. You really get to love this ladies, they become girls you may know in you own school.
