https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26867592-the-abbey-court-murder
I have enjoyed discovering some of these long forgotten authors and, although this mystery might be a little melodramatic for modern tastes, I found I soon became quite caught up in the story.Lady Carew and Sir Anthony are attending a wedding, when Lady Carew is approached by a man she is obviously shocked to recognise.
A man is dead and she flees, believing any moment that she will be arrested for his murder.This is an emotional roller coaster of a story, with Judith’s secret past, her love for Sir Anthony under threat and blackmail, when someone who sees her at Abbey Court, uses her silence to try to get to Sir Anthony’s sister, Peggy.
At his insistence, she sneaks off to an apartment in Abbey Court to discuss things, but after she's arrived, armed as a precaution with one of her husband's revolvers, and after he's taunted her for a while in true Tod Slaughter fashion, the lights go out, a shot rings likewise, and when the lights return she discovers that someone has murdered the man with Sir Anthony's revolver!Inspector Furnival of the Yard is put onto the case and, luckily for Lady Judith, he's not one to jump to obvious conclusions.
3.5 stars. An interesting plot and a good example of the classic English mystery genre. The main female characters were however too much given to swooning and melodrama for my taste. I will probably read the next in the series as the book was well-written and overall a slow, but enjoyable read.
The introduction states that the mystery is why Annie Hayes has been forgotten when Christie and others of her ilk are still read. Before I was a quarter of the way through this book, I knew there was no mystery. I found the plot derivative, weak, far too dependent on seeming coincidence and with far too many would-be red herrings employed. I'd worked out what was going to happen even before the murder occurred. A slight book and a disappointing murder mystery. I will not be seeking out any of this author's other books.
My first Annie Haynes book. While she is a bit of a find, as a popular contemporary of Agatha Christie, I'm hoping her other books are a lot less melodramatic and a little less romantic. There were some promising elements - the police inspector, for example, but the melodrama really did get in the way of my enjoyment. I'll try another one, though.
While I was entertained by this Golden Age mystery, I found it irritating to have the story told primarily from Judith's point of view while hiding from the reader facts about her past which obviously she knew.
It would have been better from her husband Anthony's point of view if the author wanted these facts hidden.
I was also a bit disappointed by the fact that Inspector Furnival does almost all of his detecting "off stage" and barely appears until the last quarter of the book.
It was more like a Gothic Victorian romance, focusing on the horror and fear of Judith rather than on finding the solution of the crime.
She is persuaded to attend a late night assignation in the Abbey Court flats, but suddenly the lights go out, a shot is heard, and a man lies dead.
Inspector Furnival follows the trail to the Carew's country house, but it becomes clear that this case is not as straightforward as the evidence would suggest.This is a Golden Age mystery but rather a disappointing one.
It starts out well with hints of secrets and lies, and a tense confrontation at Abbey Court, but soon spirals into the melodramatic.
I did like Inspector Furnival though, a nice mixture of eccentricity and dogged investigation.
The murder takes place near the start of this book but the reader doesn't make the acquaintance of Inspector Furnival for quite some time.
Instead the story follows Lady Judith Carew who was at the dead man's flat when he was shot and killed.
Overall though it has stood the test of time and is eminently readable even nearly a hundred years after it was first published.I found Judith Carew and her husband Sir Anthony sympathetic characters and I wanted them to be innocent.
Furnival doesn't work in a conventional manner at all and he doesn't reveal all he knows to the reader in any overt way though the clues are all there when you look book at the story.
Was obvious who had committed the murder, so the majority of the book was taken up with the history of the characters and their angst. Was much more a love story than a who-dun-it, but was quite interesting. The police inspector, who I had imagined would be the main character, didn't turn up until over half way through. Hoping to see more of him and how he works in future books.
Good period-piece mystery, in the genre of Sayers, Allingham and Christie
I enjoyed reading this book but found the mystery a bit weak. The reveal at the end wasn't surprising, there were no twists and nothing in much in the way of intrigue going on. Still, a nice read.
1st is the three Scotland Yard Inspector Furnival mystery series. Lady Judith Carew acted furtively on the night of the Denboroughs’ party after being accosted by a man from her past. She takes a loaded revolver to a secret meeting at his lodgings that night. The man is killed in a darken room and clues indicate Lady Judith is responsible. Inspector Furnival investigates the case filled with many clues, many red herrings and the case takes numerous Christie like ploy twists before the murderer can be revealed.
Almost a Victorian Sensational NovelPlenty of twists and turns make this an acceptable mystery story. Fans of romance will enjoy the love story aspect. But...mistaken identity, hideous hidden secrets, the beleaguered heroine; these all make for a sensational plot that’s overwhelming to the modern reader. There’s a legitimate reason that author Annie Haynes has been as acclaimed as her contemporary mystery writers.
Good plot but...didn't like the characters. Too much fainting and sickness.Too many characters in the story. People are constantly coming and going too many teases about the characters
Judith's past comes back to haunt her and her future looks even gloomier after the events at Abbey court. This is a fun murder mystery with a sweet romance mixed in. It is rather predictable but a very entertaining read.
The writing style is rather florid and flowery, but the murder mystery is enjoyable enough.
It was a good and easy read. Lots of secrets and high emotions.
I due si incontrano nell'appartamento di lui, che poco dopo viene assassinato; Judy sa di essere stata vista e si rende conto di essere una facile sospettata; lo stesso sir Anthony, però, non ha un alibi per quella sera: che abbia seguito la moglie e ucciso il rivale?La verità circa il delitto di Abbey Court è facilmente intuibile, e più che sull'indagine poliziesca, il romanzo è incentrato sui patemi d'animo di Lady Carew e sulle vicende sentimentali sue e della cognata.Lo stesso Furnival è poco più di una comparsa: un investigatore di Scotland Yard che lavora nell'ombra, usando mezzi piuttosto trasversi per raggiungere la verità.Complessivamente, pur rientrando storicamente in uno dei periodi più fecondi per la narrativa poliziesca, Il delitto di Abbey Court è una tappa evitabile per molti estimatori del genere, a meno che non abbiano un debole per il sentimentalismo.
An enjoyable look at more typical 1920s/30s detective fiction - some of what Christie, Sayers, and Marsh skewered ever-so-gently in their own works, in fact.
Haynes did not even try.)Was it drivel?
However, so are many cozy mysteries nowadays, just with a different slant due to being written in a different era.
In any case, there was no harm in it, and it amused for an hour or so - perhaps I'm damning it with faint praise here, but honestly, sometimes you ask nothing more of a book than that.Although I probably would have enjoyed it even more if the heroine hadn't fainted every few pages.
Quite a decent murder mystery but fairly easy to figure out who did what and why. Good snapshot of life at the time though. I quite liked Inspector Furnival who seems like a nice humane sort of fellow and I might well try some of Haynes's other books in this series. Good value from Kindle with very few typos.
This is hard to rate - I enjoyed it enough that I bought other books by Annie Haynes, but the characters in this (particularly Judith) gave me the screaming irrits, because they were so spineless and dull.
A blanket on the couch bookA really twisty turns kind of mystery. Just the kind that are best. Not just one, but two surprises at the end! Thank you! Anyone who enjoys Agatha Christie will like it.
Agatha Christie contemporary - well worth investigating!
Too sensational in character, and read more like a romance novel than a mystery. It was however very gripping, and sometimes alluring.
Have just discovered this author from the Golden Age of Mysteries. Her mysteries keep you on edge of your seat until the very end.
Top notchI found the story rather interesting to read enjoyable to readand I recommend it to anyone who likes murder mysteries
Decent readI think this writer dropped the ball regarding wrapping the story up. We are left hanging with several primary characters. Which is quite disappointing.
This was like reading peanut butter. I kept waiting for it to get better, but it didn't. I didn't really like any of the characters. They all seemed flat and rather stupid.
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
I just want everyone to know what a marvellous author Annie Haynes is!
