https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17337903
This is a great collection. Inspiring, enlightening, engrossing, touching,... the best of Khalil. It's a collection of his english works. Most of his other works are collected in the Treasury of Khalil Gibran series, which I'd recommend, as well. I bought this book at special price from here:https://www.amazon.com/Complete-Works...
اقتبست:"الحياة امرأة غاوية و لكنها جميلة و من يرَ غوايتها يكره جمالها."***"ترى هل أنا وحدي رهين الظل
So that's why everyone raves about this guy.
هنا التلذذ بنطق الاحرفِ حرفاً حرفاهنا العذوبة الباذخة هنا #جبرانشاعر السواقي والمُرج والجبال والطبيعة  تقرأ كلماته فيسرح الفِكر في عالمٍ خيالي عجائبي فينقلك بأحاسيسك من صحراء ايامك المقفرة ألى رياضِ العشق النَضِرة
قراءة جبران هي تجربة روحية وعقلية فريدة دائماً .. سياحة في سماوات حالمة عامرة بسحر اللفظ والمعنى ..كاتب لن يتكرر .. ومعان يحاول الآخرون تكرارها .. ولا ينجحون !
عندما قرأت جبران شعرت كأنني عشت حياة كاملة ..كمن ولد في أول صفحة ..
تعمّد اظهارها بين الحروفنظرته بعيون الجمال لكل شي " الكون ، الواقع ، الخيال ، الكآبة ، الذات ، الحب ، الفرح ، الغد ..
بين فلسفة بسيطة و معان عميقة ..
كان جبران قد تجد بعداً عن المنطق ..
و القليل من التعقيد استمتعت بالقصص القصيرة ، احببت فصل "المسيح" لأنه اضاف اليّ الجديد عن شخصيته العظيمة و طريقته البسيطة في الحياة .المحبة لا تعطي الا نفسها ..
ولا تأخذ الا من نفسهاالمحبة لا تملك شيئاً ..
ولا تريد ان يملكها أحد لأن المحبة مكتفية بالمحبة من أجمل ما قرأت ..
THE COLLECTED WORKS GOLDEN OLDIEKahil GibranIn my humble opinion this is one of the greatest prophets and writers of all time. He immigrated to the United States as an adolescent, and was part of our culture unlike so many that were years ago.His superb title THE PROPHET is poetry and philosophy for almost any time or place.As is obvious I am in total awe and dependence on his brilliance and immense humanity and understanding of the human condition in a very spiritual, enlightened and passionate man.
Mystical, religious, perhaps esoteric, but still an amazing read. Khalil Gibran had a real talent for prose, and even more so for poetry, and this is coming from somebody not poetically inclined. Also contains his art. Worth getting just for the harmony of the words as they bounce around in your head.
يرويك كلما جفّ الماء بداخلكَ
جبران خلط مع حبره نور. و كلماته انارت الصفحات بعاطفة حمراء، و دموع سوداء.امضيت عدة شهور بالقرب من قلم جبران، استمعت لموسيقاه،و شاهدت عرائسه بين المروج،و احسست بتمرد روحه،و مشيت على الأجنحة المتكسرة،و من بين العواصف،جرينا في مواكب شعره،و عندما ارقدت الكتاب على الرف الأحمر،رسمت دمعة، و مزقت ابتسامة.
Like me you probably purchased this after reading The Prophet. This complete volume is a welcome addition as a keeper on your bookshelf as its understanding matures with the reader. I've lost count of the amount of times that I've fished it off the bookshelf to return to a previously read page only to get a deeper understanding.
يكفى انها لجبران
Some books are magical. They have the potential to transform your life. I had the most fulfilling experience reading this epic. Every word a jewel, every thought a wisdom, every prose revolutionary.
So beautiful. So timeless.
I was given a copy of "The Prophet" for my birthday and was instantly hooked.Shortly aster my soul mate died, I found the complete works of Kahlil Gibran in a used book store and had to have it.
The depth of loss and grief are also handled with prose that tears at the soul.I read Gibran when I was reunited with my high school love and soared on this poetic wings.
It makes one think differently about love, marriage, the soul, desire, grief.A very beautiful book of some of the best literary prose ever written.
Khalil gibran really doesn't have a variety of style, and he falls short of his aim multiple times to be profound and to say profound things, however, this guy is the 3rd best selling poet in the world behind shakespeare and lao tzu, so for that reason he is worth a looking over. I got into reading him because I saw some quotes of his online and thought they were beautiful. Gibran really does have a lyrial style to his writing which makes his work pleasant and enjoyable to read.
لا كلام يقال ..
لكي تفهم جبران عليك أن تدخل عالمه طوعًا. غير ذلك ستكون قراءتك له كالكافر المؤمن الخائف من الرجم
من يقرأ جبران يخيّل إليه وأنّه يحمل مصباح قوي الإضاءة وينظر لدواخلنا فنحن أشبه بالعراة أمام قلمه
انّه جبران ...تركع امام ابداعه الكلمات
أكثر ما أعجبني في هذه المجموعة هي الطريقة التي ترجمت بها من الإنجليزية إلى العربية، حيث إنها ترجمة أكثر من رائعة وكأن جبران خليل جبران قد خطها بالعربية بنفسه.
بعض الكلام ساحر و خلاب و البعض كلام عديم الجدوي لكن بلا شك هو كاتب مفكر مرهف الاحساس
Gibran has the distinction of being the third best-selling poet of all time, behind Shakespeare and Laozi.
He is more of a philosopher-poet in the spirit of Laozi than a Shakespearean playwright and romantic.Some of his poetry and philosophy is deep and thought-provoking, but at times his writing is, well .
For that reason he's worth reading at least once.Gibrand's two most famous works are "The Prophet" and "Jesus the Son of Man," both of which are included in this volume.
If you want a taste of Gibran without reading the entirety of his works, read "The Prophet" and "The Madman -- His Parables and Poems."
DNF'ed at 26%. I just can't get through this book. I think it is beautifully written, but his works read like gibberish to me. I noticed Gnosticism, and other potential heresies in his work on the life of Christ, as well as in some of his other works I'd finished. He seems really into mysticism, and he writes it in a way that resonates emotionally but still rings false. I just can't. I've tried to understand his work multiple times since high school, and each time I think I understand him less.
يمكن اني محبيته وماشعرت بالرغبة في إكمال الكتاب لم اشعر ان له شخصية منفردة في كتاباته بحيث يظهر تأثر واضح بالثقافة الإيطالية والروحانيات حتى من خلال رسوماته كما ان الطاغي على كتاباته هو الالوهية سواء في بحثه عنها او في نسبها الى نفسه انا من انصار المقولة التي تفيد انه اذا لم يجذبك الكتاب فأتركه وفعلا وصولا للصفحة 100 لم استطيع ان اكمله
I must say he is a king of aphorism after bacon.
What a pity that your path was not so happy."At that moment the river spoke with a loud voice and said, "Come in, come in, we are going to the sea.
And the multicoloured pencils heard her also, and they too never came near her.And the snow-white sheet of paper did remain pure and chaste for ever - pure and chaste - and empty.************A fish said to another fish, "Above this sea of ours there is another sea, with creatures swimming in it - and they live there even as we live here."The fish replied, "Pure fancy!
If you would like to read Gibran, this edition of collected works is perfect, so far as I know. Not only the text but also the collection of paintings.Nevertheless, what intrigued me most is the difference between those originally written in English and those first written in Arab and then translated into English. Has the life abroad mellowed the view and attitude towards the homeland? Or is it an inevitable change during the course of maturation?For several months, I kept reading a few pages of this tome every night. It provides rich opportunities for contemplation.
• المحبة منذ البدء ، لا تعرف عمقها إلا ساعة الفراق .
،كتب اعظم الروائع ، الرسول ، رمل وزبد ، الاجنحة المتكسرة ، الارواح المتمردة ، نثرا ، واقتباسات و تارة حكمة وقصائد ما يميز اعماله هو حكمته الفذة ، في فهم وايصال المشاعر الانسانية الواضحة في سطوره جبران في كتابه الرسول او النبي :تحدث عن الحب ، الزواج ، الصداقة ، العطاء ، والغذاء ، والعمل ..
الخ بحديث موجز وكافٍ قرأت الكتاب حوالي 3 مرات و لا افك عن قرائته رابعة
I did think Jesus Son of Man as a good solid idea but going thru it wasn't pleasant; in fact at times it was almost too painful to stomach all that feigned innocence.I thought I'd enjoy it as much as I'd enjoyed The Prophet the first time I read it at 19.
I guess I grew even more bitter since then, the beauty (if there is any and if indeed this is how you describe KG) was lost on me.
