https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1216545.The_Wind_Boy
My absolutely favorite children's book of all time. If you haven't read it (at any age) you haven't lived. :-) The fact that my grandmother wrote it is a sidenote.
The children also discover a Wind Boy in the shoe store: He is a living boy identical to their mother's small statue, blonde-haired with purple wings and eyes "somehow...touched with sadness".
The Wind Boy is quickly best of friends with the children, but he cannot play with them in the Clear Land.
The Wind Boy cannot play in the Clear Land until the mask is destroyed, and so he and Gentian and Kay watch for the "Masker" every night, hoping to catch it.The Wind Boy is a mild, lovely story appropriate for the average seven-year-old and more mature younger readers.
My favorite book as a child. I don't remember it, and haven't read it since, as I don't want overwrite my childhood associations with it. It's was pretty much the best book ever.
Two children and their mother are separated from the husband/father by war (no details given on what war or where though the story has a lovely European feel to it) and have to move.
When they do, the newcomers find a magical world and a special friend in the Wing Boy. There is so much to this book, so much love, gentleness, comfort, so much color and so many warm breezes and gentle music from nature that it is truly hard to describe.
You need to read The Wind Boy and feel the comfort and charm of this story envelope you in its arms.
The Wind Boy is another one of those books that I remember toting around everywhere in the summer when I was seven or eight, reading it slowly but surely, entranced by the magic of it.
Like all fantasy books, it's characters have wings and can fly to magical lands, but this one takes the magic to a new level.
The imagery and color in the language from this book I remember appreciating even the first time I read it, and I never paid much attention to language when reading when I was younger.
rating: 3.5As a child, I might have given this four stars, but there's a little too much fantasy here for my taste.
I'm sure that every child who reads this hopes Nan will come to live with them.
There's a strong emphasis here on what it means to be a good person; the truly good people are happier than their peers.
I'm sure that some readers will scoff at the good children*, but there's a place for books like this and I hope all children will find at least one that they want to read over and over again.* such as Pollyanna and books by Louisa May Alcott
This is one of the most magical books a child could grow up reading. There's not much else like it.The Wind Boy himself is fascinating, and the story paints a watercolor world of children's adventure for the reader to enjoy.Fully recommended.
Beautiful book! My 7 year old LOVED it.
Heard on Forgotten Classics, April through June 2018
This was cute, though not entirely my deal in terms of tone and content. Still pretty cute, and definitely may be good for little kids interested in stories about fairies!
One of my favorite childhood books! Definitely going to share with my little ones!
It's a story you'll want to share with your kids rather than just hand to them, as there is a bit of a spiritual feeling about the "clear land".
A girl "from the mountains" comes to help nanny them while their mother goes to work at a factory in town every day, and comes home to work on a statue of the Wind Boy at night.
The children meet the real Wind Boy and help him with a problem, making short trips into the "clear land" which teach them lessons in kindness and responsibility.
This is a lovely book that I'd never heard of.
The story is very simple--a young woman from the mountains (Nan) comes to live and work for a family of refugees and brings magic and change into their lives.
The mother is an artist who works in a factory during the day, and has two children--a boy named Kay and a girl named Gentian.
With Nan's help, the children discover the Clear Land, meet and help the Wind Boy, and improve things for their family.
It's a little like Mary Poppins but much more straightforward, and just really lovely.
This was the cutest book ever! I don't believe I have ever read a more colorful book. I could feel the colors the author wrote about deep inside of me. So magical, and well written. I don't think this book gets enough credit, and I wish I had had the opportunity to read it as a young girl. I finished it this morning and started reading it with my 2 sons tonight because I think all children would be intranced with the magic as I was. A beautiful read.
This is a book that magically appeared on my "to read" list, and what a magical story it is!! It made me wish my kids were little again and all curled up around me reading a book about another world and fairies. This is a sweetly innocent story where nothing very scary or bad happens and is full of color and beautiful language and spiritualism for the young. Classic.
Although this book is written in an old-fashioned way, the story was enchanting and my children loved it. I was worried a little about some of the language but it did not bother the kids (8 and 6) at all. I love that the author believed in fairies and wrote about them so matter-of-fact. And it was refreshing to read a story about siblings who treat each other kindly.
I read this on the recommendation of a classically educated and well-read lady, who said she had first read it when she was nine years old, in summer camp. She remembers being entranced with it, and spending hours with it, even coloring in all the pictures. It is a magical book, and I hope that somewhere in this Harry Potter world that there is a nine year old curled up with this book.
My children and I just read this one. It is a fantasy about immigrant children who make friends with fairies from the clear land who help them to make friends with those in their own new country. My oldest son, 9 years old, requested more books like this one.
The most wonderful, magical, beautiful children's book ever written. Adults might not understand this, but to a child it is sheer delight.This is how I remember it, having never re-read it since I was a child myself.
This book, although I haven't read it for a very long time, brings back very fond memories. My mom read it to me when I was very young. I still remember lying in bed as she read The Wind Boy out loud. I'd like to reread it sometime soon just to get a clearer idea of the story.
This was a gentle, magical story that we listened to on cassette tape back when my older son was seven or eight. I was reminded of it the other day and will be looking for a copy to read to my younger son who is now six. A story that seems ageless.
Wind Boy and House in the Trees, both by Ethel Cook Eliot and both delightful stories with children connecting to the spirit world in different ways. I'm reminded to look up any other books by the same author.
Though not listed on good reads since it's OP, read her Ariel Dances from 1931...lovely story & worth the search!
This book is for kids who love things that they can't understand, but do at the same time. I love books like that, and I adored this one I reccommend it to Anna! and Haley, and Ashley.
loved the writing of this story, very beautiful for children 1st and 2nd grade
Sweet story.
A favorite from my childhood. Didn't hit me quite as hard when I re-read it as a teen. Prefect for age 7 or 8 years old though!
one of my childhood favorites that my mom read out loud to me
Precious, precious, spiritual little book. Unlike anything I've ever read. I loved it as a child, and I love it now.
a beautiful daydream
