https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45109.Golden_Fool
This was almost another 5 stars read, this was almost as good as Fool’s Errand, but it wasn’t due to the second book syndrome that is quite evident here.The Golden Fool is almost completely a preparation and transition book for the big conclusion in the next installment.
These are really the only parts I disliked about this book.The book picked up its pace for me once the story entered chapter 11, where a few characters from Liveship Traders trilogy appeared for a while.
Overall, The Golden Fool is a transitional book and despite having some issues with it, I still love this.
He takes solace in the companionship of old friends, but that’s not why he returned, he returned because he needed distraction: he needed an excuse to move on with his life.
This time the cause is a tenuous marriage contract, one that will only be fulfilled if King Dutiful brings back his betrothed the head of a dragon.
Slow, slow, character developmentLike all of Robin Hobb books this is incredibly drawn out, wonderfully so.
The Fitz in the first series wouldn’t have had the wisdom to deal with him in such a kindly efficient manner.
Loved this to bits! Especially the last few pages. Cannot wait for book 3 to arrive so I can dive right back in!
After reviewing 7 previous Robin Hobb books, I feel like a broken record.
So instead of making a new review, I decided to dig up all the previous ones and mash them together:Some of the biggest sized words read: I just really love.And I do!I love her writing.I love her characters (well, most of them.
the others, i just love despising them) I love how she makes me care.I love how she keeps me guessing.
And most of all, I love how I have five more books to go set in this world.
But please Robin Hobb, stop breaking my heart.
We meet new people along the way too, of course, but mainly this book felt to me like the beginning of a solidified narrative between all 8 of the books so far in the Realm of the Elderlings.This story follows Fitz after his return to the mysteries and struggles at Bukkeep court.
Whilst I have thought that these were always interesting I think some of those shown within this book in particular have been most insightful and enlightening.I also really liked getting to see more of the characters of Dutiful, Thick, Hap and the Narcheska (alongside, of course, Fitz and the Fool) because each one was uniquely interesting and full of life and vibrance in their own way.
“You seek a false comfort when you demand that I define myself for you with words. Words do not contain or define any person. A heart can, if it is willing.” Robin Hobb certainly knows how to spin a tale. I was rapt with her words, even though Fitz was drowning himself in pity and remorse. I was still turning pages when Fitz was planning (only planning) to kill all and get over with this ordeal. I finished the book and said wow, this was fantastic. That’s how magical her tales are.I know I didn
Robin Hobb certainly knows how to spin a tale.
That’s how magical her tales are.I know I didn’t like Assassin’s Quest much.
I was as frustrated as Fitz was throughout the book by the time finished reading it.
I think Ms Hobb has grown on me and that’s why I am loving this tale now instead of whining and cursing.
While Dutiful was certainly not a favourite character in the last book, here he definitely holds his own.
As for me, I will be going on adventure with Fool and Fitz next month to see what future holds for these two.
It is the second book in a trilogy, but in the first book I felt like things were accomplished even though it was nowhere near the end.Then I started this and so many plots were set into motion that I'm not sure how she can wrap them all up in one more book.
But that is all that this book did was set things into motion.
I am excited to see where those things lead for sure, I just wish this book either resolved SOMETHING, or was a tad bit shorter.
On the other hand the French accents for Kettricken and Dutiful were a stroke of genius and now I can't imagine them sounding any other way.Our story picks up right after the events of book one.
Yet Robin Hobb has that ability to make the simple pleasures of walking through Buck Town or raiding the kitchens of the Keep such delightful experiences, recalling fond memories of Fitz' childhood and coming of age in the Farseer Trilogy.
In the Farseer Trilogy Fitz role was well defined as the Assassins Apprentice.
Close to 5 stars. This trilogy is murdering me right in the feelings. I'm almost afraid to read the third book - I need an emotional breather for a bit before I dive in. I'll be doing a video review on Hobb's first three fantasy trilogies (no spoilers) after I finish Tawny Man, so stay tuned for more thoughts.
More of the same awesomeness on to the next one!
My dear goodread friends Halima says I should totally read this book. Let's find out if she is right about it ;)
If I want to approach it realistically from a point of view of someone who had invested so much time and effort (AND FEELS) into this series, then I have to say that this book gave me life (AND FEELS) and I enjoyed every single second of it.I'm lazy as eff and I immediately started Fool's Fate because IM WEAK AND NEED TO KNOW WHAT HAPPENS WITH MA BABIES, so this is will be brief.I could never imagine someone writing day-to-day life and make it not boring as masterfully as Robin Hobb did in this book.
This book was good, but for the most part I felt like it was just filling in the story between the first and the third book in this Tawny Man trilogy.
Not a lot happens, and everything is a build-up to the big adventure we will encounter in book three.I wasn't at any point eager to get back to this book and read it, but when I did read I liked it because it is entertaining and in many ways thought-provoking.
Fitz is a likeable man, and that goes for almost all of the other characters as well.
4.5 stars - cannot believe I read this in 3 days, thank you 8inTwo readathon!!
The magic in this series is captivating and mysterious - I always want to experience more of the Skill and the Wit. Robin Hobb's writing is masterful and emotional.
Golden Fooldeals more with Fitz's relationships than any plots against the Farseer throne.
I wanted more answers in the Farseer trilogy about the Skill and how it works.
I never feel like things are diminished because I only see them through Fitz's eyes.I'm getting the feeling that I got after finishing The Mad Ship - I can't wait to read the next book but I don't want the story to end.
Here we are again, the middle book of a Hobb trilogy. I really think she hits her stride in these second books. The pace has built up a bit from the first, and it sets up the third one nicely. There were a couple of emotional scenes in this that are certainly appreciated by a long time reader of this overall series. I won't go into it, but they alone made this book something special. I hope they are a good preview of what's to come in Book #3, which I'll be starting soon.
However quite a few events in this book lead too Fitz asking the Fool the true intent of his love.
The Fool is also unwell due to the changes that his kind undergo every now and then, although this is not known to Fitz at the time, I think this effects how the argument played out.
The Fool has never brought up his true feelings because he knows that Fitz does reciprocate them.
Fitz recognised this towards the end of the book, that Lord Golden, Amber and even Fool were all characters of his.
Hot dang, Robin Hobb. I think I’m falling in love.
The Golden Fool doesn't have middle book syndrome, there isn't much of a plot but a lot happens and it's all about exploring and building relationships between Fitz, Fool, Dutiful, Chade and of course Thick.
It was upsetting to see the damage it caused and the time it took for them to be themselves with each other again, but the book ends on a good note.Of course, everything is now building up to Fool's Fate and the harrowing journey they must all take, at least this time I know there's more on the way The Fool's Assassin
More of the same, if that more included staying up way too late each night, ignoring my life so I can pretend I'm a 30-something royal bastard assassin and visceral emotions running the gamut from horror to delight to despondency to the sad slow head shake of inevitability. So crazily well written it hurts.My only complaint is people in this book need to stop concerning themselves about what goes on in two consenting adults's bedchambers. Evolve already!
I have invested so much time and so many emotions with these characters.
And as a sidenote, you can read the Fitz and the Fool books separately from her other Realm of the Elderlings series, but I don't suggest doing so.
In this series, you meet up with characters that you know from the Liveship trilogy - you'll understand so much more if you go into this book with knowledge from the previous trilogy!
It was NECESSARY setup, and interesting.
But setup nonetheless.
Still...I love the characters and the writing so much, I'm not bumping down the rating.
After seven volumes, we're now so deeply into the mind of FitzChivalry Farseer that it feels like a second home, and while some may complain that nothing whatsoever happens in this book (they'd be wrong - a lot happens in this book, there just isn't really a plot), I rejoiced in being given the time and space to see more of Fitz dealing with ordinary life.
This series...
man.
I loved this series and wanted to throw it against the wall so many times.
The main character especially challenged me as a reader.
Fitz is, without a question, a immensely believable character.
If for no other reason then that there are so many times you want to slap him for being so often fallible.
He is by no means perfect and he makes many selfish or foolhardy decisions.
But that only wants you to want that much more for him to improve and succeed.
Especially the Fool.
Do yourself a favor and get this series.
Superb second part! There are a lot of things which relates it to the events from The Liveship Traders, a lot of revelations and some other turnabouts which I did not see coming. And even if Fitz’ misfortunes did not forsake him, yet I get the feeling that the wheel is starting to spin – very slowly but there is a movement; I really hope I’m not mistaken.Now, lets see where the path takes our heroes in their ultimate quest and what happens with the black one from the tales...
”To recognize you are the source of your own loneliness is not a cure for it. But it is a step toward seeing that it is not inevitable, and that such a choice is not irrevocable”  Often times we blame a situation or a person for our own misery and I appreciate Fitz accepting that ‘his unwillingness in changing what is within his psyche’ is to blame and realizing that acknowledging the pain is only but a step towards healing.Fitz is put into situations that there is no escaping from; Chade test
But it is a step toward seeing that it is not inevitable, and that such a choice is not irrevocable”
Often times we blame a situation or a person for our own misery and I appreciate Fitz accepting that ‘his unwillingness in changing what is within his psyche’ is to blame and realizing that acknowledging the pain is only but a step towards healing.Fitz is put into situations that there is no escaping from; Chade testing him, controlling him, leaving him no choice but to be a sacrifice for the Farseer line all over again.
I haven't written enough reviews when it comes to Robin Hobb's books.
Needless to say, I'll probably sound like a broken record if I managed to review them all.Hobb is a great writer.
There is so much to it that she cultivates yet manages to unwrap with enough information to entice and satisfy at the right time.While The Golden Fool is still mainly about Fitz's life back at Buckkeep, it also brings together characters and stories we've read about from The Liveship Traders.
Ghosts of notes:~ When I can face pain and regrets and meaningful friendships again, I should reread Chapter 5, "Shared Sorrows." It is sublime.~ Also, Chapters 15 ("Quarrel"), 16 ("Fathers") and 20 ("Coterie").Flow, my tears ....
I’m still not sure exactly why but, as much as I enjoyed the first two trilogies, this is the one that really sucked me in completely both the first time I read it and on this re-read.
I also think I’m getting a stronger picture this time around of just how much this trilogy ties together elements from the previous two and, although I have not yet read the next series, I can anticipate how some of the events in this one will likely tie into it.And here are my spoiler-filled comments…(view spoiler)[I adore Fennel, Jinna’s cat, even though he barely gets any page time.
Golden Fool takes the foundation that Fool’s Errand establishes and just adds so much more in a familiar setting that any Hobb fan would be happy in, Buckkeep Castle.
There was one scene that was amazing, as two characters confronted each other about the secrets they held, but that was the only truly spectacular scene.The extra characters that are added in this trilogy are great and I’m so happy to have new blood in this saga.
A very strong book that does everything great but nothing that makes it stand out as a 5 star book.4/5 20/25 Possible ScorePlot – 4(Strong)Characters – 4(Strong)Setting/World Building – 4(Strong)Writing Style – 4(Strong)Heart & Mind Aspect – 4(Strong)For more reviews like this visit http://www.commontouchoffantasy.com
Hobb more than makes up for it in the second volume of this trilogy – there is court intrigue at every possible vantage point; Fitz spends so much time hidden in spy tunnels I pictured him constantly covered in dust and cobwebs – so why have I still come away feeling not completely satisfied?As befits a middle novel, there are numerous strands coming together to pile the drama high.
The worst offender is Fitz trying to train a new skill coterie for Dutiful – something which is crucial in both plot and thematic terms – but which just goes on and on.
