https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/491889.Pilgrimage
As far as I'm concerned, Zenna Henderson was one of the most gifted (though not prolific) authors of science fiction of all, and I've read just about every sci fi book there is.
This book, and its sequel, "the People: No different Flesh" are and will remain among my top 10 sci fi favorites of all time.
Her books have a magical combination of power and wonder.
Complex plotting, fully realized characters, and a completely believable alternate world, which becomes a vehicle for the author's exploration of the nature and consequences of prejudice against and fear of "the other" - the unfamiliar, that which is not ourselves, that which we do not understand.
A series of short stories set in the same world and a connecting story outside them all.
Most of the stories are excellent, but the last is not as strong and the connecting thread remains unresolved.
Perhaps this tale continues in the second volume The People: No Different Flesh.
Each of the episodes would stand alone, and each contains a little more about The People than the previous entries.
Each has a slight religious overtone, though no overt discussion of or comparison to any earthly religion ever occurs.
But the main thrust of the story is the beginning of the Ingathering, in which the isolated 'Groups' of the People (scattered by the somewhat chaotic landing of people who had never landed a spaceship before) began to realize that they needed to reconnect with each other more than they needed to stay unobtrusive.(2) Gilead: Readers who go on and read The People: No Different Flesh will recognize the Mother in this story as the same Eve who is about 10 years old at the time of the Crossing.
The rest is the story of the (possibly hopeless) journey.(3) Pottage: Given what's described in horrific detail of the way the humans in Bendo treated the castaways of the People, it's not surprising that the Old Ones in the Group commanded the first generation of the Group to keep their feet on the ground.
But her "cure" strikes me as being rather abrupt and ambiguous; it's never said what caused her to become so depressed, and the idea that all it took to cure her was being surrounded by caring, extraordinary individuals is a little off.On the other hand, as a way to link the stories together, the frame is a clever one: the People, who are aliens forced to crash-land on Earth and survive undetected among normal humans (Outsiders), are in the process of recording their history because others of their People have found them.
ספר קסום
The stories she listens to about their past, their Home, and the landing which scattered and shattered them slowly bring her back to feeling hope...No Different Flesh This book tells the story of a couple, Mark and Meris, who, one stormy night, find a young girl who has fallen in a capsule from the sky, and who has special abilities.
What follows is a plot that will involve the reader in the magic, compassion and sense of rightness that the People evoke.In Pilgrimage, as in The People: No Different Flesh, the plot shifts between the present day story, and stories about the People from their past, which comprise the People's race memory.
Originalmente éstas se publicaron en revistas como historias cortas, y fueron reunidas con un hilo conductor en la forma de Lea escuchando acerca de The People.Las historias son: Ararat (1952); Gilead (1954); Pottage (1955); Wilderness (1956); Captivity (1958); y Jordan (1959).
Mi favorita es 'Captivity' que fue nominada a un premio Hugo en 1959.Casi todas las historias involucran profesoras y sus alumnos.
Tal vez a algunos les moleste que sean muy religiosos, a mi no.
Como decia antes, el que me gustó más fue CAPTIVITY, con Francher .
Back when sf was truly great.
We have a group of people - refugees, survivors, etc - who have crashed in the mountains of California and made a life there.
These people - though human in appearance - are telepaths, telekinetics, and other various psychic gifts.
They suppress these gifts and live in isolated valleys so that they do not come under the condemnation of their more mundane neighbors in California.The book has an overriding theme of tolerance of the different, of the sanctity of life, love, and hope.
Much better than I though it'd be, but not the best science fiction book I've ever read.
After having my mom repeatedly urge me to dive into my parents' vast collection of science fiction novels, I finally gave in and read this book.
It is essentially a collection of connected short stories about an alien people marooned on Earth and hiding their special abilities to fit in.
The only thing lacking for me was the ending.
Especially Lea, the character who anchors the framework around the short stories themselves.
I felt like a few more explanatory pages after the last story would have made things less open-ended.
But that is a small quibble, as overall I found the book quite excellent.
There are my memories—I found the paperback in a used bookstore my friend and I rode our bikes to as teenagers--as well as the storyline depicting extra-terrestrials having to leave their dying Home.
Crashing to Earth and having to adapt to life here, the People look like us but have very special talents, including being able to lift (fly).
The sense of being different, not fitting into our culture, trying to find others separated, while having a social culture of belonging to a greater and warmer community is something all teenagers and now middle aged people can relate to (as well as all ages in-between).
I remembered this book from when I read it as a kid and I wanted to read it again. It's well written and the idea is captivating but it's a bit repetitive and The People are a bit too angelic, even if they are aliens.
A severely under-rated, under-remembered leader in the field, whose influence is quoted by authors as diverse as Connie Willis and Orson Scott Card. Just a seminal concept, written with elegance and wonder.
A classic of science fantasy, the tale of the gentle alien invaders known as "The People." Somewhat religious in tone, but less so than 'A Wrinkle in Time."
I loved re-reading this book. Great writing and lots of biblical imagery. Get yourself a used copy (it's out of print) and enjoy!
Quite an imaginative take on the stranded alien story...this book is obviously mostly comprised of many previously written short stories but there is such commonality between them that ZH is able to embroider them in a very unique fashion. I loved the yesteryear western setting. Overall this is a very clever, easy read and certainly a pleasing discovery! Recommended for fans of Octavia Butler (though less dense and bizarre than anything in the Lilith’s Brood cycle) and Luis L’amour (though more dense and bizarre than anything I’ve ever read by him).
סיפוריהם של חייזרים בעלי כוחות על מופלאים שנתקעו בכדור הארץ ואיך הם מנסים להסתגל ולהשתלב.ספר קסום שקראתי פעמים רבות בתור נער וגם עכשיו כשמצאתי אותו וקראתי שוב הוא עדיין קסום ומרגש.סיפור המסגרת, שמחבר את כל הסיפורים לספר אחד פחות טוב ולא תמיד ברור אבל לא פוגע בקסם כלל.
This qualifies as a novel, I guess, though really it's a set of short stories originally published separately and then rather loosely linked by a slight framing narrative that is eventually perfunctorily wrapped up before the final story begins.
The stories all deal with 1) the People, humanoid aliens trapped on Earth after the (unexplained) destruction of their home world and possessed of abilities that are really no different from magic (levitation, telepathy, telekinesis, some sort of ability to grab up sunlight and do something or other with it that's never really clear, etc.), given that they remain utterly unrationalized; and 2) some tramuatized/alienated/isolated/otherwise sad character who eventually is made whole thanks to the wonderful alien powers, mainly those of empathy and telepathy, with a healthy leavening of true love thrown in for good measure (not that there's anything wrong with that, but it gets tired as a repeated go-to plot device).
Zenna Henderson is one of my favorite authors, and this book, the first published collection of short stories about the People, represents some of her best work.We are introduced to the People, a group of extraterrestrials with a variety of mental powers, who are stranded on Earth after their home planet is destroyed.
A running theme throughout the stories involves isolation, loneliness, the feeling of being different than those around you and the difficulties that raises.
But there is also a great deal of hope, feeding from their religious beliefs (which I think is handled very well) and their feeling of community.A number of my favorite characters are featured in these stories: Valancy, Bethie, Low and Dita, the Francher kid, and Miss Carolle.
I picked up this book to decide whether to add it to my Amazon stock or my Bookmooch inventory, and noticed it had been owned by my husband before I knew him, and is SF, which is not his normal genre.
I have read it over 3 or 4 days, whilst also doing an awful lot of work around the farm and on setting up a new BM charity for our friends there who have lost all/most/some of their books in the recent typhoon.
There were some passages in the book which were a little repetetive and cloying in their sentiment, but the message came across clearly.
I shall look for the second book, worth reading, and fairly easy reading.
After many years of critiquing classical and newer science fiction books, I took this off the shelf recently to see if it now seemed dated or if I would be more critical and disappointed in the writing.
This is either a vastly under-rated book when experts are listing the classics, or this book just continues to strike the same chord within me.
Every time I finish this book my heart is lifted and the world is full of wonder and possibilities.It reminds me of "The Night Circus." Even if such a world does not exist, I need it to exist in my memory.

I was disappointed. This is clearly a compilation of short stories, strung together with another story. The individual short stories stood better alone; I read one or two of them years ago, and liked them very much. Stringing the stories together into a novel, "The People" seem to be bizarrely stupid, (continuously falling for the same problems) and the story is so riddled with melodramatic angst and "Mary-Sue" syndrome that I eventually gave up. I would have given it one star ... but if you ignore the connector story, the first two short stories were pretty good.
This is one of those classic sci fi collections of stories, one that I read as a young adult reader and loved, and then have read again (and again) in the years since. The idea of alien refugees arriving unseen as interstellar boat people continues to resonate today, and the tales of humans reaching out to - or horribly rejected the 'other' remains relevant. The deceptively ordinary, mid-Western setting juxtaposes the familiar and everyday with the magical, extraordinary People, creating a unique imaginary world.
I read this book when I was a child and had very fond memories of it. I only recently located a copy. I wasn't sure if my faint memories would hold up these many years past. I enjoyed the embedded stories very much, but didn't really care for the framework story that they were embedded in. The style is a little old fashioned, but quite charming and enjoyable. I am looking forward to working my way through the other few books of Zenna Henderson that I located when I found this one.
I thought the only drawback of this excellently written book was the connecting story trying to make these short stories into a novel, of sorts. The stories are strong all by themselves. The People are "aliens" that pass as humans, except that they have what we'd term as paranormal abilities. The stories are based on the third generation of the original "settlers", who crash-landed here. They were treated as witches and hunted down. So they learned to hide amongst us.
This book is a story of difference and hiding one's gifts to avoid persecution from "normals". Told from the perspective of various members of the People (an extra-terrestrial race stranded on Earth), the storyline quickly becomes repetitive and depressing. Worse for me was the old-fashioned, bombastic language that twists every scene into something maudlin. Interesting concept but a tiresome read.
I just reread this book from my childhood. It was as wonderful as I had remembered. Yes, it's a bit sentimental and moralistic but that didn't bother me then and it doesn't bother me now. I'm going to reread all four of the Zena Henderson books I have...one after another...immersing myself in a more kind and sane world than the one around me.
This is SF only really on the surface. It's about estrangement and about people who don't fit in with others. There are elements in the book that deal with prejudice. It's not normally my cup of tea but I enjoyed it. It's generally rather slowly paced. I haven't read the others from this series and I'd probably like them. But I don't terribly often feel the urge for something of this type.
Zenna henderson is a wonderful writer and one that I hope that one-day I will be just as good.Her books are the sort that at the end my heart feels like it will burst out of my chest with joy.This is not a normal book.
