https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18710190-allegiant
Instead of trying to resolve the old conflict between the factionless and the factions, the book tries to take on a whole new conflict between the genetically pure and the genetically damaged, making the plot unnecessarily convoluted and leaving little to no room for proper character development.
In Allegiant, Four's fears have his neck in a leash and tug him in any which direction and he willing goes without even putting up a fight.Which now brings me to the disastrous ending of this book.Suddenly, tensions are rising between the factionless and the Allegiant (the group who wants to re-establish the faction system) and Evelyn decides she's going to use the Erudite death serum to wipe out her opponents.
I had a few problems with it (mainly that it spelled out a bit too much for the reader, lacked finesse with the handling of themes, and was sometimes pretty predictable) but the character development was breathtaking, the plot was heart-pounding and since it's a young adult novel, I think Veronica Roth did a pretty damn decent job:)Most readers are going to love it.You know what?
And when faced with the chance to be rid of it, we would probably take it.And by essentially playing God, in our rejection of the darkness in each and every one of us, we created bigger monsters.The forming of the factions were a perfectly valid solution to the problem caused by the genetically damaged.This is absolutely crucial to understand.
Basically, we have one book to learn the mass of information we need to know about the outside.This info dump is compounded by several things: 1) Everything we thought we knew about the outside is a lie and some things we thought we knew about the people on the inside is a lie, too; 2) Tris knows nothing about the outside so things that we know about as readers keep being off-handedly explained to her and also not explained to her; 3) a lot of what Tris has to figure out is science and history, and there's not the sufficient background needed to help with suspension of disbelief.This is clearly supposed to be far into the future - at least seven generations?
But here was my problem with Tris: besides what happened at the end, was she wrong about ANYTHING in this book?
Now we have shit called computers that have as much potential as the baby TV/computer/telephone things we shove in our pockets.There’s no way a system of Factions would last a century without something like the Hunger Games where a war might’ve happened and possibly failed.Now I’m assuming this was seen as ridiculous, because Allegiant takes this society and makes it an experiment.
Thanks, you adorable squares!NO.LEARN A BIT OF BIO BEFORE YOU THINK THAT THIS MAKES ANY SORT OF SENSE.The Factions were formed as a means of living and value, why the fuck does genetic material and serums even matter to VALUES and LIVING SITUATIONS.
If in your story the word 'genetics' could have just as easily been replaced with the word 'magic' or 'voodoo' or 'pepperoni', your premise may seriously need some rethinking. Why do I care? Well, education took me on the path from biology to medicine, and so I don't take f*cking with genetics lightly. Well, now against all odds (and against my self-preservation sense) I finished this series. And it was not very good. Really, it wasn't. It could have been somewhat salvageable - if only the autho
No, my biggest disappointment is with the fickle way this series reached its resolution.You see, far from trying to resolve any of the old conflicts built up in the previous two books, this story decides to just abruptly swing to another issue - 'genetically pure' vs.
Click Here to see the full review :) After Reading: I just don't know how I feel right now! Before Reading: Edit#3: Here's another awesome cover by a fan <3 brilliant work !!!Edit#2:Ok this is so freaky 600 likes guys awesome!!! :*Edit#1:They are probably looking for a title other than those above that's why they haven't named it yet!who rated this? I mean seriously the second part isn't even out yet and people rated a book that is probably not even written yet!I think the cover of this book
Edit#3: Here's another awesome cover by a fan <3 brilliant work !!!Edit#2:Ok this is so freaky 600 likes guys awesome!!!
:*Edit#1:They are probably looking for a title other than those above that's why they haven't named it yet!who rated this?
I mean seriously the second part isn't even out yet and people rated a book that is probably not even written yet!I think the cover of this book will have Erudite's or Abnegation's symbol on it!I am so exited freaking can't wait for it!!!Edit:me waiting......2Edit:I found this fan made cover on google isn't it amazing![image error]And this one is just freaking hilarious!Rimsha@Ramblings of a Bookworm
So far Katy Perry does a good job summing this book up:"You change your mindLike a girl changes clothes.Yeah, you, PMSLike a bitchI would knowAnd you over thinkAlways speakCriticallyI should knowThat you're no good for me[Chorus:]'Cause you're hot then you're coldYou're yes then you're noYou're in then you're outYou're up then you're downYou're wrong when it's rightIt's black and it's whiteWe fight, we break upWe kiss, we make up(you) You don't really wanna stay, no(you) But you don't really wanna go-oYou're hot then you're coldYou're yes then you're noYou're in then you're outYou're up then you're down"Update May 2013: The cover's actually good, though I have to admit, some of the fan made covers were gorgeous.
Y'know new world, new symbol??Update Apr 2013: Allegiant??
one of the coolest thing I saw at tumblr. haha______________________________Q: Anything else you want to add about the trilogy?VERONICA ROTH: The third book will be called  Detergent , and the tagline will be One Choice Can Disinfect You. Okay, that’s a lie.LOL...
I understand why people are so upset with this book, but I personally thought this book was raw, realistic, and heartbreaking.
Veronica Roth:Well, I tried writing this review without there being any spoilers, but it’s rather impossible – for me, at least.
The second Tobias’ PoV was introduced I knew Tris was going to pull some heroic sacrificial bullshit and get her ass killed.
Constantly I kept forgetting I was reading a book that’s a continuance of the Divergent trilogy.
The romance fell off a cliff and shattered on sharp rocks at the bottom, the relationship between Tris and Tobias failed to impress me.
The whole BOOK failed to impress me.
Genetic Purity meaning Divergence; Genetically Damaged meaning belonging to one faction with fucked up genes.
:(((((((((((My Fan-Made Cover: (Before the real title, Allegiant, was revealed.)
Well, after finishing Allegiant, I think I've finally figured out why these books never clicked for me like they have for a lot of other people - Veronica Roth has some really good ideas and a good message, but the way she constructs her world to develop that message is just so heavy handed to the point the whole thing ends up flying in the face of common sense.Here's the thing, Divergent as a series is built around one very simple, very obvious proposition: we should all be treated as individuals rather than stereotyped into some faction, Dauntless or Erudite or Candor (except Roth's doing the stereotyping anyway, like what's up with only the Erudite wearing glasses?).
On this highly productive Friday afternoon, you will be delighted to hear that I have made - wait for it... a book-themed faction quiz!You answer the questions, keep a note of your answer number, tally up your score and find out which reader faction you belong to! It's revolutionary, really. No peeking ahead at the scores either; this is serious, people. So... What’s your favorite genre? 1)Classics2)Mystery/Thriller3)Science-Fiction4)Romance5)Non-Fiction6)I read everything Do you ever read more
Do you ever read more than one book at a time?
1)Shrug and find something else to read.2)Freak out!3)Mark the sequel release in your planner.4)Cry. But are secretly pleased a book can affect you like this.
6)I read fast unless it’s a book I REALLY love or REALLY hate.
Books are thrilling adventures for you and whatever genre you pick has to be filled with fast-pacing and excitement.
Your faction leader is Jay Gatsby - a kindred spirit who only ever wanted to get the girl he loves, throw parties and read fabulous books.32-38 : CandorYou are a proud speaker of the truth.
50% tedious, 50% exasperating - I'm 100% done with this series Me, ten pages in. The only positive from this series was that  I finally managed to finish it.To channel my undoubtedly unorganized and ranty-rant, I will focus on the "romance", the lackluster plot and the oh so many over-the-top quotes.  The "romance" - aka, ohdeargawd. What has YA come to??? Honestly, what was up with Fourtris this book?  I don't just stay with him by default as if there's no one else available to me. I stay with
The only positive from this series was that  I finally managed to finish it.To channel my undoubtedly unorganized and ranty-rant, I will focus on the "romance", the lackluster plot and the oh so many over-the-top quotes.
But that wasn't all...cause now we have a whole new dimension to their relationship (aka, they were making-out all the bleeping time).I swear, if I have to read one more over-the-jeans-butt-touch I will go insane.Literally every few pages, there's another passionate, yet chaste make-out session followed by accusations of jealousy, trust issues and other petty squabbles.
I feel disappointed. And betrayed.Mockingjay. The Death Cure. Requiem. I can't say I didn't see it coming. But I was really hoping Roth would prove me wrong. I was really hoping...I had my hopes set so high, and it just...I just feel really crushed right now. This makes me question ever reading another dystopian trilogy. (view spoiler)[Let's start with the whole genetics thing. That was really stupid. Sorry to be candor but it was. I mean, seriously? All this time I thought being Divergent was
ROTH FOR DOING THAT because IT WAS PERFECTLY CLEAR THAT CALEB COULD DO IT AND IT MAKES NO SENSE FOR HER TO SACRIFICE HERSELF BECAUSE CALEB COULD'VE AND I WOULD'VE BEEN OKAY IF THERE WAS NOBODY ELSE AND IT FITTED THE STORYLINE BUT IT SEEMED LIKE TRIS JUST WANTED TO TAKE THE GLORY AND IT'S SO ANNOYING BECAUSEI mean we could've gained a much better perspective of Caleb WHOSE BETRAYAL WASN'T EVEN PROPERLY EXPLAINED AND MY FRIEND HAD A BETTER HEADCANON AND SHE'S FIFTEEN (Caleb couldn't compete with the other Erudite initiates, so he grew desperate) and did the plot and the readers gain something with Tris dying?I honestly don't think an author should kill the main character unless absolutely necessary.
UPDATE: Veronica Roth just announced that 'Allegiant' will be from Tris AND Four's perspective!!!!!There's this post on Veronica Roth's blog, where she says that she would have preferred it if Harry had died in the last HP book, because it would have been "by far the most powerful moment of the entire series. And beyond that, an incredible act of heroism."...This scares me. A lot.Please, Veronica, don't kill Tris and DON'T KILL FOUR. Please. PLEASE. PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE.Here's a link to her blog. Veronica Roth is absolutely amazing and I admire her so, so much. http://veronicarothbooks.blogspot.de/Fall 2013..? Fall 2013???
AFTER READING (EDIT) Okay, I know I had another one of these earlier(as in a few months earlier), but I wrote that when I was really emotional so I'm back so that I can clarify some things!The ending was not the only reason why I was so upset about this book.Yes, I cried.
And yes, it still makes me want to cry and while I believe I forgive Veronica Roth for the ending, I am still grieving.
The reason as to way I am saying this is because I don't want to seem like someone who gets upset at a boo
Okay, I know I had another one of these earlier(as in a few months earlier), but I wrote that when I was really emotional so I'm back so that I can clarify some things!The ending was not the only reason why I was so upset about this book.Yes, I cried.
The reason as to way I am saying this is because I don't want to seem like someone who gets upset at a book because they didn't get a happy ending.
(view spoiler)[How am I supposed to go back to Divergent knowing that Tris is going to die?!
well, certainly, but it still makes for some good action sequences.it's a fun little journey through the trickiness of science and natural selection and free will and serum after serum after serum.
no, but i think it stays true to the world roth has built, and her characters feel genuine and three-dimensional, and tris is still one of the great characters in YA lit, even though she seems to have gotten a little too textbook superhero in this one, and doesn't have the elements of her character that made her so likable before.
and she comes across as an even stronger character because of this.(view spoiler)[ and yeah - her death.
Five motherfucking stars.
If I could give this ten stars, I would.Veronica Roth, I want to high-five you for your courage to end it as you saw it ending and not cave to 'standards' or 'expectations'.It was HARD to read.
And then I hugged my Divergent books, because wow.
Just fucking wow.
Not at all what I expected (because it's YA, I suppose) but looking back at the beginning, I now wonder WHY I didn't expect this.
Maybe I have an advantage, having read the books back-to-back, but hindsight is 20/20, and I see warnings of this happening from the very beginning.Okay, I was wrong.
TWENTY motherfucking stars.FOUR owns my soul.
DNF. Fuck this book and everything it stands for.
If only this ended differently.
(Success! I actually managed to write this review without including any spoiler! WOW.) 2.5 stars. WHAT. JUST. HAPPENED? Oh boy. While I was (very straightforwardly) spoiled, a part of me did not want to believe what I had been told. I mean, come on…no way Veronica Roth could have done that. But, you know, before starting this intense read and just after finishing Insurgent, I did not believe that I could ever hate this because of how dear the characters became to me, especially Tris. Lucky me,
But, you know, before starting this intense read and just after finishing Insurgent, I did not believe that I could ever hate this because of how dear the characters became to me, especially Tris.
Well, of course, so many things internally frustrated me but, overall, I still think that this is a book worth reading if you’re a fan of the series.
But… did the author re-read her book after finishing writing it?
Perhaps I will include them another time.Honestly, ever since I finished book 1, I couldn’t stop thinking about what a beautiful and true relationship and love story Tris and Four have.
but as a reader, i am so angry at veronica roth for killing tris!!the book itself was entertaining.
and i was so so so invested in tris as a character and in her love story with tobias.
i did not find the ending of tobias necessary or satisfying at all.that said, i did bawl my eyes out at the epilogue zip-lining scene.
but i am so angry that she thought it necessary to leave tobias in pain.
veronica roth may not have killed tobias physically, but she killed him emotionally, which is much much worse.
-A VERY LONG run down of Allegiant: Evelyn/the factionless took over the factions/the city, Evelyn acted like a power-hungry dictator, Tris and Tobias weren't happy with Evelyn's ways.
Nita, Tobias, and the other GD planned to steal all the memory serum from the Bureau so they couldn't use it to reset (wipe everyone's memories and give them new ones) Chicago/the factions.
Tobias acted like a dick and twisted things around to make Tris out to be the bad guy even though he was the one who fucked her over, lied to her, betrayed her, and almost killed her and her friends.
I don't know how to rate this yet. I both loved and hated it. I need more time to process and organize my thoughts. Right now I am just emotionally drained!
Veronica Roth took a risk I've never seen a YA author take and I applaud her for that. I'll miss this book series so much and the characters I've grown to love over the past 2 year <3
Usually I write a long-ass review on books I've read. In this case, I have no words. Completely not what I expected and I'll leave it at that.  Zero Ninja-Bunnehs
Ms. Roth is indeed dauntless. I know it is her story and she can tell it the way she wanted; I wish she showed a bit of more of abnegation and provided a final book that did not make me want to regret reading the whole series. No movies for me.
I completely understand why Veronica Roth decided to write in Tris and Four's point of views, but it wasn't up to par with the high quality writing that was evident in previous books.
I really felt like Four's point of view was extremely vital to understanding who he is and how much he cares for Tris.
I have to address the way Allegiant ended because it's caused so much controversy Veronica Roth received death threats after fans had read the ending.
After a bit of pondering, it all made sense to me and I felt like Roth had been leading up to this ending ever since Divergent.
Spoiler free review (read before release date)  Life damages us, every one. We can't escape that damage. But now I am also learning this: We can be mended. We mend each other. Brace yourselves initiates. I'm an absolute emotional wreck right now so this review could very well turn into a mess of incoherent babble. I'm still reeling from that climax. It burned with the finality of a dying match, an inevitable conclusion to a well-loved series, an end I didn't see coming despite all the theories I
It burned with the finality of a dying match, an inevitable conclusion to a well-loved series, an end I didn't see coming despite all the theories I discussed and argued and imagined with fellow fans.
Roth grabbed my interest with Divergent, she made me question how much people can truly hide about themselves in Insurgent, but she tore my heart out and ripped it into shreds before my very eyes with Allegiant.
I adored how much Roth explored the characters in this book.
Roth doesn't take the shortcut with this one, she throws challenges at the characters, makes them question what they believe in, what is right, and what is worth risking their lives for.
