https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12334.Zelda
Zelda, poor Zelda, Your love for F. Scott felled ya. A Southern belle transplanted,You went through hell, that's granted. But oh, those years of glory!Your nineteen-twenties story. The couple with the mostest, You a reluctant hostess. The Paris scene so sparkly, Your mind receding darkly. Your husband used you, wife, To fuel his writing life. To madness you were condemned, Truly The Beautiful and the Damned.Your refuge, destroyed by fire, Became your funeral pyre.
He literally drove his wife insane by stealing her life, writings and personality for his own literary ends.
When she tried to write a novel about her experience with mental illness, her threatened her publisher (who was also his publisher) with defection if her work was published before his own "Tender Is The Night".
He also thought that he should be her personal psychiatrist and master - he felt he knew best how to treat her illness and often insisted her real doctors agree with him that he should be able to tell her what she could and could not do in all aspects of her life.
It’s as much a biography of Scott as Zelda and I think the first thing to take into account is that had she not married Scott Zelda would not be known to us today.
On Scott’s part Zelda was a goldmine of material but clearly disastrous in the role of wife to a serious artist.
Rather it’s the feeling one has that Zelda didn’t have much of an existence outside of Scott.
At the end of the day I sense I would have liked Scott a lot more than I liked Zelda if they were both my dinner guests – until, that is, Scott got drunk.
First, it's a book I discovered in my mother's stack of paperbacks when I was a kid, and the later pictures of Zelda scared the B.Jesus out of me.
I'm so familiar with this book at this point I have to read it historically for the effect it has had on different generations: first, the women who gobbled it up in the early 70s as a feminist cautionary tale, then later the men and women who took it up as a kind of primer on how to have one of those all-time great love affairs.
Moments of sheer entertainment mixed with sluggish chapters that made me want to put this book down left me feeling mixed up and slightly disappointed.
Started out strong and I was pulled right in, almost felt like I was living in the 1920's with Zelda and Scott.
The middle of the book started reading more like a researched thesis filled to the brim with quotes and letters that I found tireless.
Too many paragraphs spent comparing and over analyzing books and writings that Zelda and Scott did.I'm happy to have more information on this dramatic couple, however wouldn't be one I would read all over again.
Before reading this, I was aware that Zelda had serious mental, nervous conditions and was institutionalized, but I did not grasp how much of her life was spent in that way, how little was spent in the other, carefree years of youth, and how much of her time was spent in complete exile from her husband.
"It seems to me a kind of castration, but since I am powerless I suppose I will have to submit, though I am neithr young enough nor credulous enough to think that you can manufacture out of nothing something to replace the song that I had."They were two very sad people, but at least they had the song at one time.
Scott Fitzgerald no conscience?) on TCM and Robert Osborne mentioned Milford's book as the only one that covered Zelda Sayre's creativity and squashed dreams, as well as her struggle with mental and emotional mayhem.
Creative coupling is mercurial: drop either partner's dreams on the floor and only magic can reconnect the globules.
F. Scott and Zelda were star-crossed in more ways than four.
F. Scott was an emotional and artistic thief and a cruel coward to boot; aided and abetted by publishers and certain acquaintances.
Creative advice to artistic firebrands: stay single or marry a nice banker.
I knew the broad brushstrokes of the Fitzgeralds' relationship (who doesn't?) but learned so much more about them from this biography.
It grew out of an academic thesis, and I could have done without the exhaustive direct quotes from the Fitzgeralds' letters, especially as Zelda's writing became less coherent.
Zelda was pretty exhausting.
In spite of that, the book was interesting and thorough and easy to read.
I'm happy I read it.
It's just too bad that, in real life, there wasn't more substance behind the glamor and endless drama of Zelda and Scott's lives.
This book, though long, seemed to underscore that there just wasn't much behind the curtain.
Many years ago, I read nearly all, or maybe all of F.Scott Fitzgerald's books, and so was aware of the mentally unstable Zelda.
Several friends of the Fitzgeralds found Zelda to be unbalanced, but her husband simply would not hear of it, until her condition (schizophrenia) became undeniable.What is strange to me is to read that this book has been used by feminists (some) as a kind of rallying cry about creative women who are held back by their men.
Zelda, as a younger person, showed no particular interest in creative pursuits----in my opinion, her need to write, dance, paint, etc., came about as a reaction to the creative process she witnessed in her husband.
Scott Fitzgerald hadn't used so much of Zelda's life and writing (her letters to him, her journals, and her own essays and short stories) in his own work?
What if Zelda had been able to rightfully claim authorship of her work rather than Scott claiming credit as the author or co-author (when he contributed nothing or very little to it)?
This book is a fascinating look at post-war (WWI) America and Europe, the process of writing, the disintegration of a marriage, and the devotion of two people to each other in a way that, arguably, destroyed them both.
Creatives with behavioral disorders?Zelda was, beautifully, the epitome of "free spirit" in her youth.
Understandably, that was easily the beginning of the end of whatever stability Zelda possessed.
She sucks you in with wonderful stories of Zelda's youth and walks you through the early years of their relationship and marriage.
Then toward the end Mitford focuses on Zelda's fiction.
The fiction mirrors much of Zelda's life and what Mitford has told us.
But it also reveals the state of Zelda's thought patterns toward the end of her life.
Voy a intentar escribir una reseña de este libro en el blog así que sólo diré por el momento que me ha gustado mucho y que lo recomiendo sólo a aquellos que sean 'fitzgeraldadictos' porque de otra manera puede resultar un libro denso.
Una lectura que me ha roto en muchos sentidos, la vida de los Fitzgerald no era dorada o al menos sólo lo fue durante los primeros años, dos vidas marcadas por la enfermedad, el ansia de éxito y de reconociemiento.
Siento que la historia de los Fitzgerald terminara de manera tan trágica y pasaran por tantos infortunios.
My knee-jerk reaction is to rate this book one star because, like, what the shit, F.
I give your LIFE a one-star rating.But alas, Nancy Milford did a wonderful job of portraying Zelda and Scott's absolutely fricked-up, codependent, abusive relationship and for that I commend her.
She was detailed with her sources and citations, some might say to a fault, as some chapters did drag on, though ultimately I've decided it was fun to pick and choose which aspects of her life I'd like great detail on and which could be skimmed over.The first half is cautiously entertaining - Zelda was wild and funny, but in a way that makes you cringe because you know she's on the precipice of a total breakdown.
I first learned about Zelda Sayre Fitzgerald a few years ago when I tried to read a couple of Scott Fitzgerald's books.
I couldn't STAND the main characters in any of the books, and reading that they were semi-based on the Fitzgeralds in real life made me think these must be some of the most horrid people ever.
I think I would dislike them as much in real life, in their heyday, as I did the characters in the books), and it gives a little window into how mental illness was handled seventy years ago or so.
Some biographies can trudge along but this one bubbled and flowed as Zelda would probably say based on her writings and her penchant for using loads of metaphors for absolutely every concept she was trying to express.Nancy Milford spent years producing exhaustive research and it shows.She starts with Zelda's parents and Zelda's birth in Montgomery Alabama.
While Fitzgerald stayed in Hollywood, Zelda had returned to Montgomery and lived with her mother, a rather invisible life it seems, after the legendary one.
This is not going to be a formal review by any means, but I do want to share my thoughts.I have so say that if you’re a fan of Zelda, or F.
Scott Fitzgerald, or even his work I highly recommend reading this.I’ve been a fan of Zelda Fitzgerald, but never knew too much about her life, other than she was the wife of F.
Overall, as I said before, I highly recommend reading this & so glad I picked this up.
A distinctively female literary tradition emerged: “images of enclosure and escape, fantasies in which maddened doubles functioned as asocial surrogates for docile selves, metaphors of physical discomfort manifested in frozen landscapes and fiery interiors — such patterns recurred throughout this tradition, along with obsessive depictions of diseases like anorexia, agoraphobia, and claustrophobia.” In response to being both locked up in, and out of, language, “female art has a hidden but crucial tradition of uncontrollable madness.”Nancy Milford’s fascinating and disturbing biography Zelda (1970, reissued 2011) tells the tragic story of a young woman from Montgomery, Alabama who had great self-confidence, ambition, intelligence, artistic talent, and sex appeal, and who was, in effect, “killed into art” by her husband F.
Though the beginning of this book provides some strict historical information on Zelda Sayre Fitzgerald, the majority of it is, of necessity, a biography of her better known husband.
It is a sad fact that Zelda is, essentially, an extension of him; their lives were so closely intertwined and mutually dependent that it would be impossible to look at only half of the dynamic couple.
Difficult to say; certainly she was talented, possessed an extraordinary gift for description, and her correspondence reads like poetry.
Yes, he steals from her life to create his own characters while weaving in his own, often dysfunctional perceptions, of intimate relationships.It's a story of excesses, a portrait of celebrity success in the 1920's and '30's in glamorous NYC and its surroundings.
They are restless people looking for a calm that they can't embrace.Zelda is unstable, actually mentally ill, perhaps schizophrenic, who, for years is under the care of psychiatrists with a wide range of approaches to her care and relationships with her and Scott.
Zelda is an artist in her own right without the talent of her husband or the literary background.
I knew that Zelda was his muse, his inspiration - but I didn't know that his novels were autobiographical.I am shocked that Zelda and her husband did not separate their personal lives from Scott's professional life at all.
Scott wanted to dominate Zelda but she clearly did not want to be dominated.
Milford stresses how Zelda kept wanting to have something for herself, which Scott clearly did not want her to have.
I can see how that possibly contributed to Zelda thinking of herself as a failure and not being good enough.This is a great biography for anybody who is curious about the Fitzgeralds as a couple.
I never thought I'd even want to read about Zelda Fitzgerald because I read all about Hemingway first and he didn't like her and I admit that influenced my opinion of her.
I still don't "like" Zelda, but do understand her as a person more because of this extremely detailed book.
I like reading about the 20's and all those glamourous Americans abroud in the years between the wars.
I liked the book, it provoked a sense of pity for this fragile, mentally ill china doll that was Zelda.
It is the most thourough book I've read on life between the wars.
I found this book for .50¢ at a book sale and I had heard about how interesting she was, so it seemed like the perfect opportunity to find out.
The character of the game was named for Fitzgerald, so maybe knowing all of this did subconsciously make me more interested in the topic.
A lot of the reviews seem to be reviewing the characters, their actions and their lives, this seems odd to me.
She told the story well and as a person who likes to read about mental health or someone going through psychological issues, this was an interesting read.
Incredible story of love, dependency, and mental illness. Zelda was an artist in her own right, and I'd like to think that with the correct diagnosis--she would have been able to stand on her own. Scott, though he loved her, put too much doubt in her. His dependence on alcohol exacerbated what was wrong with their marriage. Instead of trying to fix her, he should have been working on himself--alas the suffering artist...
This book haunted me when I read it as a teen. Partially, because it followed a life so charming and lively into the ravages of bad marriage and mental collapse. However, it left a lot of unanswered questions and is hardly definitive. There have been some new things written which exceed the scope of this book, but taken alone it is a powerful portrait, though tragic.
The other half would tell you that her madness drove me to drink." - Scott FitzgeraldThis was a very in depth biography, and Zelda Sayre Fitzgerald is a fascinating and enigmatic subject for Milford to take on.
I went online and looked at the Acrobats painting that was given to the Murphys, and was surprised at its vigor and also its grotesque qualities...no matter how descriptive Milford was about that piece, seeing actual examples included would have been a good compliment to the discussion of Zelda's life during that time period.Overall, the story was a tragic one with all its brilliant highs and despairing lows covered by the scope of this epic biography.
Nancy Milford writes in the introduction of this classic biography, "She was the American girl living the American dream, and she became mad within it".
Nancy Milford did extensive research and interviewed an amazing number of people who knew or had met Zelda.
Scott Fitzgerald and their party life in the Jazz age, her breakdown due to mental illness and continued problems, and the dissolution of her close but codependent marriage during the nineteen thirties.
There are extensive excerpts from her letters and other writings, including her semi-autobiographical novel, "Save Me the Waltz".
It was very enjoyable and I think got me caught up in getting books on Fitzgerald, the Murphys, Dorothy Parker, etc., that whole crowd in other words.She did have mental problems and if you look at her entire life, you can see them showing up here and there all along the way.
Or were people only interested in what she had written because of who she was married to?She was a madcap woman from the twenties who jumped into fountains and acted zany.
Others acted zany, too, but they were never deemed wacky enough to be locked up.
They had madcap moments, she just went mad.
Over the years, I've read a lot about Scott & Zelda.
I'm so sorry I didn't read this book first.
I tore through the text and whenever I wasn't reading thought about Zelda and her story almost constantly.
Milford's text allows the reader to appreciate Zelda Fitzgerald for all that she was: muse, spitfire, madwoman, and most of all, victim.
Milford uses Zelda's own words -- culled from her own correspondence, diaries, and fiction -- to document mental illness in a vivid and frightening way.
This book will leave you with a greater depth of understanding and empathy for Zelda ...
Though there are more recent Zelda Fitzgerald biographies available, Milford's is still the best of the lot.
Zelda's life makes for an emotionally exhausting read, but this is an invaluable book for anyone interested in either of the Fitzgeralds.
Those who come to know the details of Zelda's life and literary output may find their estimation of F.
Scott Fitzgerald somewhat diminished upon finishing this book.One criticism: I wish Milford had spent more time researching Zelda's life in the eight years between Scott's death and her own.
Unfortunately, this is a subject glossed over by most of Zelda's biographers.
Reads too much like a doctoral thesis (which I think it was) for my taste, with unending and somewhat laborious quotes....
That being said, the research is solid & interesting; and well written apart from relying on so many samples of disjointed love letters.
Good story though, if you like (strict) biography.
After perusing several of the current bestsellers on the subject, & not finding one which grabbed me, I blindly purchased this one, having read the author as Nancy Mitford (whom I adore); finding it curious that I had missed one if her books over the years!
Anyway, not bad, but not Mitford!
