https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7402393-nightshade
And at the staggeringly long-lived age of 25, I might as well be on Kidney dialysis and walking around with a zimmerframe to these people.Coincidentally, how do you like my tiara?Usually, I ignore these people because I can easily pretend to turn off my hearing aid and go to sleep.
Of which, I am not one of them.This book will relate to people who still think your clothing defines absolutely every aspect of your personality and who you can be friends with.
My teenage cousin spent her Christmas money on hair products because she needed to update her range.
GIRL POWER!...right?What followed was an argument between me and this book.
Went something like this.Me: GIRL POWER!Book: GIRL POWER!Me: So, because Calla's full of win and GIRL POWER, she's going to stand up to Ren and be his equal, right?Book: Sure, since he says that's the way he wants it.Me: ...what?Book: Well, obviously male alphas have authority even over the females.
You know, like in real wolf societies?Me: Yes, but these are WEREwolves.
IF she was an alpha with GIRL POWER, she would keep them in line and actually behave like a leader.
I love my shapeshifter books as long as they don’t break one simple rule: the author needs to explain clothes right away or I’m done.
You know how sometimes it seems, especially in books with a really strong plot (view spoiler)[think The Hunger Games (hide spoiler)], that the love triangle was thrown in afterwards, probably to satisfy the publisher’s demand?
It can’t ALL be just Calla going from Ren to Shay and back.” And so she was forced to add this plot she probably deemed unnecessary and even damaging to her beautiful love triangle drama.
(which was a major violation of the rules, of course).I liked how it all started out with Calla and Shay and the author definitely wanted us to whoop for him in this love triangle but in the end, Ren was the one who got my pulse racing.
How the wolves operate is interesting, don’t get me wrong, and I really liked the dynamics within the pack but I want to establish that this book focuses mainly on the romance part.
Don't get me wrong: I love Shay as well, just not in THAT kind of way.I also really appreciated that this book was not all about warring factions of supernatural creatures like so much of YA fantasy, although it pushes toward a future of war.
Werewolves (Those are in right now?) A love triangle (Haven't read one of those in a while!) So what?
It just does it all so damn well.If you're looking for a plot heavy book with an in-depth and sensible story, then this might not be for you right now.
Reason(s) for DNF: -Shay's character rubbed off on me the wrong way.
Though I've only read 119 pages, I did not see what made him so alluring to Calla.
-Did not enjoy how Calla seemingly dropped everything for a random human.
It might have worked if Shay left more of an impact on me.-Did not like how the love triangle felt forced.
Again, going back to how I disliked Shay's character.
(I'm sensing a theme here...)Despite my distaste for a character or two, Andrea deserves credit.
I WOULD like to know what happens with Ren because, despite my inability to continue with NIGHTSHADE at the moment, I adore him.
Lip curling only works if you are Elvis, and growling sounds too silly to be threatening.Now, I wouldn't nag about this if these were the only things that were wrong with this book, but my next two subjects are what basically killed the book for me.First of all: when they turn into a wolf, their clothes just....
Calla could make herself look like a wolf wearing clothes, but she doesn't see the point.
It never works, it's getting really old and it seriously kills my buzz.The one relationship I did like was kept in the background.
I really liked this book. I think people who like my series will most likely enjoy this one also. She ends the book on a cliffhanger similar to my style and she has layered in a lot of pieces which means she's got many things yet to reveal. It's exciting and makes me want to reach for the next book immediately. There is also a nice bit of romantic tension.
*Spoilers*I LOVED this book and would have given it five stars but seeing as she chooses Shay I decided to deduct a star, purely because I am TEAM REN!I really liked Calla as a character, she was strong and determined and her own person.
I love how she and Ansel (Calla's brother) end up together although I was sad at the same time when Calla mentioned how they got to be together (Due to her and Ren putting in a good word for them later on) yet she doesnt get that chance.
So everyone is probably going to hate me for writing this review but this is my honest to god opinion. I really wanted to like Nightshade. I waited so long to read this and I was dying to read it too! I heard nothing but great things about this series but I really wanted the book in paperback to save money. And the week the paperback came out, I immediately bought it!And well...I hated it. Okay no, hate is a strong word. I didn't hate this book. In fact, the beginning of this book started off s
So everyone is probably going to hate me for writing this review but this is my honest to god opinion.
I heard nothing but great things about this series but I really wanted the book in paperback to save money.
But after awhile, I lost complete interest.First off, Calla just...I don't know how to explain it but I didn't like her.
I lost all interest because not one thing was clear and I don't want to read a book that I can't understand.Overall, I really didn't like this book.
There were so many problems I had with this book and there's no way I'm going to be able to finish this.
How dare she use their names in her book?Just for that I'm going to use the epic dating site serial killer memes for you, Cremer.
That's the theme for this review.Stupid, wacko loser of an author.
Must I remind every author out there?
Cremer, the next time you write a book, remember that.
Why does she hate everyone except Seamus Finnigan Doran?
Calla Tor. And that guy that lusts after her?
That guy?
Why must the nicest covers have the crappiest insides?
I'm leaving.Andrea Cremer, can I say something to you?Yes, I've seen your new haircut.
And I loved it.
Calla is forced to marry a rival werewolf, more like frenemies run by Ren Laroche, the resident bad boy, who’s so popular because he embodies many underage sexual fantasies.
Shay figures out what Calla is very quickly and now she’s torn with wanting both Ren and Shay.Nightshade failed for me on so many levels.
Why, this is a perfect way of explaining things about this world so it’s not really telling because the characters are having dialogue together.For the life of me I couldn’t figure out why Nightshade would be a banned book.
Good book, but I liked the wrong guy.
I’m so behind on reviewing that I thought I’d start with a book that’s easy for me to lay out.In Calla’s world, she’s always known that her destiny is to life her life as co-pack-alpha with the sexy werewolf, Ren, and to lead the new pack.
Although she annoyed me a little bit with her whole Shay-obsession, she was a truly memorable character.This book focuses almost entirely on its love triangle.
I wasn’t too happy with the male lead, though (Shay), mostly because I hate human guys when comparing them to the supernatural.
Don't think I should say much on here because this book is not being released for another NINE months! I am putting this on my "need to read again" shelf because a. I loved it, and b. the sequel, Wolfsbane, tentatively comes out in Fall 2011, and I will need/want a refresher by then!For now, I'll just say this is a sexy, intriguing read that I could not put down!
I enjoyed this first installment quite a bit, as the characters are intriguing, the plot is unique and the pace of the story kept me turning the pages at a rapid pace to see where it would all eventually lead.In this first installment, there were quite a few characters introduced as the two wolf groups, the Nightshades and Banes, prepare for a merge to become the Haldis pack.
I absolutely LOVED Nightshade!
I have to admit I'm not usually a huge vampire or werewolf fan (or wolf fan, as the case may be here), but I was completely blown off my rocker by this fabulous debut.
If I could give it six stars, I would.
SO GOOD.
Calla is one of my favorite YA heroines of all time - she's smart, funny, strong and resilient.
And the two love interests, Ren and Shay?
The only problem is that I can't decide if I'm Team Ren or Team Shay!
Can't we just clone Calla so she can have them both?
I couldn't wait to find out what happened next.If you did read my status updates, the author does need a bit of help in understanding the economy of words.
I listened to this book on audio, and when I first heard "Unwelcome searing liquid..." I thought someone threw something caustic at her.Any thoughts I have on the love triangle would be spoilers, so here we go...(view spoiler)[At first, I thought Ren was an arrogant man-slut, and was excited about the prospect of Shay.
But she completely bent the rules and put her life in danger to make time for Shay.I guess I just wish the author would have given Ren a fair shake.
I wanted to like this book. But in spite of werewolves, love triangle and strong young heroine, it still wasn’t interesting enough for me. And I hated parts, where Calla was so aroused by Shay or Ren touches and she wanted to have sex with them (separately, not like threesome), but she couldn’t because it was forbidden. And these moments were repeated in every page. After I read about it in tenth time, I decided that Calla had some serious hormonal problems and she obviously can’t control them. She either needed to be laid, or have some prescription.
*looks at cover*Ya, it's super important to hit up the Maybelline aisle at the store for some ~lewks~ before going to save the world and shit #HighlighterChallenge #PurpleHairDontCare #PurpleLipSoHip #SmokyEye #MaybeImBornLikeThisMaybeImTheChosenOne
While Calla didn't actually make a choice in Nightshade, it's pretty obvious who she will end up with.
Yes, of course I wanted her to be free to make her own choices, to discover who she was and why, but I didn't like the way he pushed her.
But, it didn't feel like it was supposed to be obvious with the way the characters took a thousand more pages to figure it out.
Had Shay's character been developed a little more, I probably would have been more than okay with Calla's choice.
1,5 stars... funny, right? Like an F+... The plus is for the last 30 min of the audiobook... anyway.A bit of spolier stuff, but nothing you wouldn't expect from a paranormal romance. It was the worst book to read for a few years. I kid you not. I think even Hush, Hush wasn't so bad, because it was easier to go through. It was actually painful to finish it and I was counting how much I had left.  This book is simply bad. It's too cheesy, it's too predictable. But I guess I should say what actuall
But hey, that’s what instant love is all about in paranormal romance, right?
He’s one hell of a guy – he’s actually the only really interesting person in this book.
But no, he’s the supposed-jerk and I don’t think we even get to be Seamus (new guy)-team or Renier(destined mate)-team, it should be that obvious for us.
I hate when the author tells me who I’m supposed to hate, who is the hot guy, without actually creating them so I feel like it myself.
I hate heroines that talk about how bad-ass they are, but end up being some hormone-controlled-weak-freaks that just annoy the shit out of me.
However, this is the book that has single-handedly restored my languishing faith in the Werewolf genre of story writing.Recent perusals of mine into this genre have left me cold and annoyed (save Maggie Stiefvater's sublime Shiver and Linger).
Several books I have read lately end up spending too much time telling and not showing...
I'm a Werewolf!!" moment to be found in this book.
For once, a character who knows her abilities and doesn't spend a portion of the book learning to be her supernatural self.
We can focus on other things then, like character interactions and gorgeous world building.
Nightshade was a gripping read that will pull readers into it unique and beautiful world full of passion, mystery and romance.Right from page one I was drawn into this complex plot.
Not only will you adore Calla but also the entertaining bunch of secondary characters like Ansel, Mason, Bryn and Dax. They bring some funnier moments to this intense story.
Both Shay and Ren were just as strong characters as each other and you could understand Calla's confusion.
Overall, Nightshade lived up to all the hype and is one of the best paranormal romance reads of the year!
Some people might love him, think hes nice and loves Calla and all but to me he was a pushy, annoying hindrance that made me want to strangle the book whenever he popped up.
The story is built around the main character, Calla, a female Alpha Guardian.
Calla saves SHAY from a grizzly bear attack at the beginning of the book and when he joins her school she starts to get to know him better.
From the very beginning of the book I just couldn't bring myself to like Shay.
He was also really pushy and just plain annoying and I hated his attitude (especially towards Ren).
I really did not want to like this book.
In fact, my only disappointment came in the fact that I have no clue what is going to happen (yes, there is a cliffhanger) and frankly, I want to know!You can see from the other reviews that this is a book about werewolves.
The key to this book is Calla.
She has been taught that she should not question them regardless of what looks like a bad outcome for her pack or herself.
I’m not telling since it will be a spoiler.When I liked Ren, I disliked Shay and vice versa.
But, when done right, a love triangle can be one of the most intoxicating elements in a good read, and Nightshade provides one hell of a triangle.
Just the way I like my love triangles mixed.Calla is a great character with a great heart.
But sadly, I already have my my favorite:( These triangles are almost always predictable so I think I know where this will end once the series is said and done, but, a girl can always have hope.The rest of the packmates are awesome and I absolutely adore Ansel, he is everything adorable and precious I love in a character.I can't say that I was very happy about the whole Efron/Sabine, Logan/Mason bit.
Nightshade is narrated by leader of the pack, Calla.
I liked being in Calla's head, but she tended to make me dizzy with her back-and-forth tendencies between love interests.
I loved her devotion to her brother, Ansel, who was one of my favorite characters (and my sugar-to-coffee ratio is tooth-achingly similar to his.) Calla has a lot of soul-searching to do in coming books, and I can't wait to read about it.
On the other, he was at times sensitive and encouraged Calla to look beyond the little box she's lived in her entire life.
It could have been a great book if I didn’t spend half the book wanting to scream at the main character for being utterly frustrating.So let’s meet her shall we?Calla is a werewolf or in this book, a guardian and not just any guardian, the new alpha for her generation of Nightshade wolves.
Calla spends the rest of the book being a naïve angsty teenager while juggling two guys vying for her attention.
Calla our ever annoying protagonist, Shay, the new boy in town, and Ren, the rival alpha of Calla’s pack.
Even though it took time to build the setting, I didn’t find it hindering the book.
Calla is supposedly a badass (she's called that by at least one person in the book), but she swoons at even the slightest hint of romance or sex - can you really call that tough?
I expected the book to focus on werewolves (called the Guardians) but it branched out into a whole world of supernatural creatures.
Also, the mention of succubi made me think of Bo from Lost Girl, my favorite badass!If I continue this series it will be to hear more about the world Andrea Cremer thought up outside of Calla's self-absorbed bubble.
She has known this since she was a little girl, and as an alpha female, Calla must be as pure as the driven snow, while Ren gets to run around with every girl at school.
Calla's life changes when she is on patrol and saves a lost hiker from a bear attack.
The hiker was badly injured by the bear and Calla has to give him her own blood to save his life, never expecting to see him again.
However, the next day, the hiker appears at her school as a new student, named Shay.
