https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71054.H_tel_Transylvania
Hôtel Transylvania was probably a cutting edge book of its time (the late 1970s), but today it feels a little old fashioned.
However, I can certainly see its place in the process of getting to the abundant vampire fiction that we have today.Bram Stoker’s Dracula merely hinted at the sexual nature of vampires.
A couple of years before Hôtel Transylvania was published, Anne Rice’s Interview with the Vampire appeared and updated the vampire legend for the times.
Although he does drink blood, he also provides pleasurable sexual experiences during the process.
Published in 1978, Hôtel Transylvania appears just before the Satanic cult panics of the 1980s.
Forget date stated here this came out in 1980s before True Blood & long before Twilight was the erotic Count this evening that Dracula isn't yet it's blood pressure high a quality Weathering Heights With Gone with the Vampire instead of Wind.
Historical kiss of blood red death .I read number of these books not all many because been unavailable in the UK the early American editions have much better cover with gold embossed covers in paperback.
If enjoy horror but don't want a Saw style feast of blood that make you vomit then these are what you love a Romantic Historical erotic Not over the top horror
This is the first book about the ancient, noble, lonely vampire Saint-Germain, but I'm glad it wasn't the first one I read because I might not have have continued with the series.
It's not terrible, but the two later books I've already read were better than this one.For one thing, the plot is Saint-Germain vs.
He's apparently very good in bed despite having non-functional plumbing, and the sex scenes are rather vague and unsatisfying, with a lot of phrases like "wakening her inmost harmony".The author spends a lot of time describing clothes, particularly Saint-Germain's clothes.
Saint-Germain saved Roger's life during the reign of Nero and made him immortal (but not exactly a vampire - the details are vague).
I wanted to like this, but no.
For a book with a sympathetic vampire,character (which I generally find lame), the idea wasn't bad: a vampire who could use a crucifix against his enemies.The pacing I found too slow and the characters too similar--everyone melodramatic and vain, in complete denial of the Satanists among them, who themselves were ignorant of vampirism.
I've heard that later books in the series are much better.
This one wasn't horrible, just not smooth enough to overcome my dislike of the melodrama and pacing, which others may find the cat's pajamas.
Alucinada me quedé cuando buscando información sobre la novela y sus continuaciones vi que la serie constaba de nada menos que de 23 libros, más otros dedicados a algunos de los personajes que van apareciendo, por ejemplo, Madelaine es protagonista de dos títulos de una serie anexa a la del vampiro protagonista.
Así que aparte de novela de terror hay que añadirle la etiqueta de histórica.Respecto al libro leído, deciros que está separado en tres partes: La primera lleva el título del protagonista: Le comte de Saint Germain, donde escena tras escena iremos conociendo a este singular personaje mientras la trama satánica se va desarrollando poco a poco.
Actual Publication Date: 1978#1 Count St. Germain Historical Vampire seriesA truly memorable read from 2000 - one of my favorite books.Count St. Germain is a very old vampire, a good vampire.
Hotel Transylvania was a stunning eye opener for me in terms of how truly & deeply satisfying a detailed historical book can be.I've read several more since HT (MUST find Path of the Eclipse in my TBR!).
well...I had heard about Chelsea Quinn Yarbo for many, many moons. I found this one (and the next) at a used book store and jumped on it. it had been spoken of very highly. sorry everyone, but I'll stick with the beloved Mrs. Rice. St. Germain sure makes a big fuss about his clothes! I know this was published a long time ago and it probably was new then but I felt like I'd read/seen this all before. i'll read the next one then we'll see...

.
We discussed Hotel Transylvania on our podcast Bloodsucking Feminists, your number one stop for all things fangs, feminism and fangirling. http://bloodsuckingfeminists.com/epis...
The first book in a historical fantasy series about the very old vampire who is currently called the Comte de Saint-Germaine.
The first book is set in the year 1745 and in Paris.Comte de Saint-Germaine is a mysterious man who has recently taken his place among the Parisian nobles.
Unfortunately, one of the women is the young and vibrant Madelene de Montalia whom Saint-Germaine has fallen in love with.The plot is about equal parts about Saint-Germaine fighting the Satan worshipers and romancing Madelaine.
In addition to Saint-Germaine, there’s Madelaine, her aunt Claudia, and a few others.
The reason why I read a lot of vampire books is that besides being a fascinating myth; I really enjoy reading the different kinds of perspectives on vampire-ism.
The book by Yarbro, actually, contains a separate segment at the end of the book about the different aspects of vampire-ism depending on culture and religion, which is exactly what I'm interested in.
It came as a surprise that Yarbro put so much effort behind the book; reading it, I was not stunned by any significant part or chapter, that being said: after reading I'm quite impressed.
Out of all the current rage in "vampire" books, This is truly leagues above the crowd.
She takes this person, around whom many, many stories circulated, and turns him into a vampire (albeit an extremely courteous one!)Her books started out as epistolary novels, but have over time come to evolve into more.
The Comte and his faithful ghoul, Roger, travel extensively throughout the world and throughout time.
St. Germain is an incredible character, and the whole series is miles above ANYTHING Anne Rice ever wrote.
I recommend this book - the entire St. Germain series - without reservation
Further research led me to the author's website, where I discovered there are over 20 books in the Saint-Germain series, each taking place in a historical time period or setting that I would enjoy reading.
Saint-Germain just happens to harbor a secret.Our heroine, the lovely Madelaine, is not like most young women of her day.
Saint-Germain is a very likable character and his vampireness (?word?) is a facet of his character, like being jovial or good at fencing.All in all I enjoyed this book.
The main characters are very likable and enjoyable, and I'm interested to learn what happens in the next book.

Eccessivo.Saint Germain poi, svilito nella descrizione e nel suo essere un vampiro buono, sembra perdere del tutto la spina dorsale in confronto a tutti gli altri personaggi, cattivi e non, che hanno molto più carattere e spessore di lui.Ambientato nella Parigi di metà settecento, la città non viene adeguatamente descritta, così come il luogo che dà il titolo al romanzo: l'Hotel Transilvania infatti viene a malapena nominato qualche volta, sovrastato dall'orrore che diventerà il fulcro del romanzo, i riti satanici.Ebbene, come spesso accade in libri di questo genere, viene inserito il tema satanismo quasi a forza, con scene rivoltanti e dettagliate di pratiche oscure e di violenze sessuali.
Semplice, perchè così Saint German potrà salvare la sua bella dalla grinfie di questi nobili depravati.Con l'entrata in scena di questa violenza quindi, si perde il filo del libro: volevi parlarmi di Saint Germain che attraversa gli oceani del tempo e si innamora sempre di qualcuna?
Historical fiction plus vampires that don't sparkle, what's not to like? Satanic cults with villains that wouldn't make a muppet cringe...okay that's less appealing. Bland heroines that are special because they are described as thus...hmmm you're losing me. Long ass aristocratic names and supposed court "intrigue"...and I'm gone. So terrible, and my reprint edition seriously has a typo on every page.
3.5 stars.I just finished this book and am only going to put a few quick things down for now while I let my thoughts simmer a bit.
In several places rather than allowing the reader to see how a situation was handled to resolution the author chose to just advance the story and leave the reader to believe that the previous outstanding issues were handled.
The end was a book closure but certainly left room for more story without being called a cliff hanger.Actually read an ebook of this but there is no ebook option on GR.
Hotel Transylvania features a non-sparkly vampire named St Germain.
Hotel Transylvania is the first-it takes place in the 1790's and lets us learn a little about what type of vampire and person St Germain is.
The writing is descriptive and baroque and a lot of fun to read-it appears on the surface that Chelsea Quinn Yarbro has done her fair share of historical research.
She spends a lot of time describing costuming, food etc.
St. Germain is morally complicated-he is not the good guy so much as the slightly less bad guy.
The writing is choppy at times, POV leaps from one character to the next, but nothing that compromises the fun of the book.I have to say, though, and this doesn't impact my review, I want to stab "E-reads", the publisher of the Kindle version of this book, in the throat.
The book was published in 1978...there's no reason for there to be errors in any edition.
It's just bullshit laziness by the publisher, and if I were Ms. Yarboro, I'd be embarrassed.
I will be writing an angry letter, believe you me.Book=good.
Kindle version=bullshit.
In the historical fiction of Chelsea Quinn Yarbro, comes the first of her St. Germain vampire series, in all it's Gothic and well paced storytelling.
It centers around the true-life mysterious Germain that actually lived, but Yarbro delves into a "what-if" tale of vampire fiction that has ample bite.
If you allow your mind the chance to be swept into the cinematic grandeur of 1970's storytelling, such as Frank Langella's Dracula or Dan Curtis's Frankenstein, A True Story, then Hotel Transylvania will delight in bringing many a silent night to undead life.
Superb Vampire SeriesSaint Germaine returns to France and reclaims his former residence, the Hotel Transylvania.
This is book one in what looks like a superb vampire series and I am looking forward to reading the rest.
The historical research and the style of writing are most faithful to the period of Louis xv and the action takes place in 1743.
The characters display the thoughts and sentiments of this period, and the romance is done likewise.
Yet there were dangers building and this is a book for those who can afford to read about violence and satanic ritual.
I do recommend this to vampire lovers.
The Comte St Germain novels by Chelsea Quinn Yarbro are ranked as some of the best vampire/horror/historical fiction in the world.
There's a good reason for that.
The biggest reason is the the Comte himself has become an iconic hero of sorts.
Yes, he is a vampire, but he tends to behave in a far more civilized fashion than many of the humans surrounding him.
I've said before that Yarbro is that author who isn't scared of research, but she knows how to entwine that research with narrative which flows and characters who breathe.

Before there was Anne Rice... before there was Stephanie Meyer... there was Chelsea Quinn Yarbro and her Saint-Germain series. She is a grand master of horror. Read the entire series and you will marvel at the scope of her imagination. I can't praise her enough. I had a chance to meet her once at a Mystery Writers meeting out in San Francisco back in the 1970s. She was our guest speaker and displayed a wealth of knowledge that makes her books so enjoyable. To be brutally honest, no one comes close to her use of vampire lore and limitations.

Vaguely disappointing in that I was recommended this book on the basis of its vampiric elements, of which there are few. However, as I read it, I found that was best; the hints of vampiric action enticed me to read an amazing historical fiction novel I would not have otherwise picked up, not being interested in this particular time period.
Another of my all-time favourite books. I'm not hugely into the whole vampire genre, but Chelsea Quinn Yarbro's Saint-Germain books are a lot more than just vampire books, rooted as they are in various different and interesting periods of history. This was actually the first one she wrote (1978).
Finally received this one in the mail today! Been hunting it down like a mad dog since the mid 1990s!
Enjoyed it. Very different from your typical vampire novel. Strong narrative and interesting characters. Will probably read the next one in the series.
