https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/117930.The_Animal_Family
I have been bemoaning the lack of great mermaid stories far and wide, and though I've tried a great many, none have ever even touched on the surface of the enchantment and mystery that I'd hoped for until the gracious Ceridwen whispered in my ear about The Animal Family.
I had not known that I was waiting for The Animal Family, but when it came it was as though I had long been expecting it." I had no idea I was waiting for this book either, but I'm very glad it finally came.
20120811Fantastic book. I read it to E and L. At one point, I was (ahem) overcome by the story, and got a bit choked up. This made for a very confusing moment for E and L. She followed suit, but then to deal with the trauma of seeing his father cry at a children's story, E began to laugh. This became a preferable option to L as well. As long as I had trouble getting it together, they both laughed at me. Me crying, my children laughing at me -- standard parental operating procedure.
A hunter lives alone by the shore. Once he had parents, but they died, probably when he was quite young. Perhaps he has never had any other human contact, we aren't told; he seems to be familiar with some norms like "men don't wear necklaces" but he doesn't know what velvet is... this question isn't central, I just wonder given his loneliness why there's no question of looking for other people. Maybe he would have left eventually had he not met a mermaid.
This book is slow (in a good way), mellow and sweet.
I found the mermaid in this story to be an especially wonderful character.
She is happy all the time, accepting that life throws a few unexpected problems into the mix, and understanding that the best way of dealing with those problems is by working with what you have rather than by complaining about what you don't have.
This might be a fun story to read with children, although some of the ideas and themes may be a little too complex for them.
this right here is a perfect book. right here. perfect book.
I came across this title in a recent edition of the HB magazine. It sat on my shelf at work, and then I brought it home, and it sat some more on top of the chest of drawers. And then I started reading it. First, in spurts -- but those short spurts were enough to want to make me continue. I found out a bit about the author, who was, not surprisingly from the lyrical quality of this book, an American poet - who translated both Chekov and Goethe. And it shows: The hunter and the mermaid were so dif
This book tells the story of a man who lives on an island until he meets a mermaid - who decides to stay with him for a spell - a long spell, interspersed with visits to her sea people.
The Animal Family makes a great read-aloud for boys and girls aged 5 to 9 or so (the HB article's subject was just such books).
By the time you reach the end of the novel, you feel like you've lived your own entire life in those pages.
I started reading this to Katie and Mia, but had to finish it myself after the first night.
We are reading this at bedtime after a few picture books so Mia usually falls asleep or just lies in bed singing to herself.
We read Mia's first particularly if Katie picks something we won't finish in one night.
Often, Mia will not pay much attention to the chapter books -- meaning she will listen for a while and then start doing her own thing.
When Katie was Mia's age we would read four or five bedtime stories that were appropriate for her age.
For the characters in Randall Jarrell's Animal Family, the world is a wondrous place, full of adventure and discoveries to be made, but also a familiar one, with all the comforts that implies.
The world is new and thus nothing is surprising or shocking but everything is exceedingly fascinating.
Animal Family is simple and elegant.
It is an image of some universally recognizable potential of domestic life, a glimpse into the happy life of one unlikely household.
It is not the 1950's stereotype of domesticity, but rather a pure one based on genuine, earnest, unconditional love and acceptance.
What a sweet and interesting story! I expected more of an ending, but overall I really enjoyed this. I would have LOVED this as a child. My one question while I was reading is how did the mermaid get around so easily on land?This was a Newbery Honor winner in 1966.
Ok, this is the second time I've read this.
I believe child me would have liked it.
Now, I don't know what to think...
it's like an elusive dream...
it seems like just a series of anecdotes about how each new member of the family arrives and becomes integrated, but surely there's a deeper resonance that makes it worthy of a Newbery Honor.Don't be put off by the page count.
It's a small book, with huge margins, and can be read by an adult in one sitting.I'd love to know what a family who reads it aloud together thinks about it.
I am going to promptly purchase this for my granddaughter and any new little people that come my way.Here is how the story is introduced:"Say what you like, but such things do happen-not often, but they do happen."Here is an excerpt in which the mermaid is explaining to the hunter the difference between living in the sea and living on land:"Sometimes the sea is rough, sometimes it's calm, but down underneath it's always the same.They (the creatures of the sea) don't know how to be bored or miserable.
It's at a low enough reading level for most intermediate ESOL students, I would think, or intermediate ABE readers, and it has a clear story.
There aren't a lot of big questions in it, society-wise, although one could talk quite a bit about what makes a family, and what it is to leave your home and go to another land with another totally different way of life, and what it's like to have a mixed marriage.
It's also sort of a story about adoption.
And there's the question: where is everyone else?
What would happen if this strange family were discovered by the "real world"?
I acquired this book in the seventh grade when a teacher was clearing out some shelves.
I have always adored this book; its simple but tender prose, and the delightful story it tells.
It is so innocent and pleasant, yet never seems to lose touch with the gravity of loneliness, sorrow, and death.
I recommend this book to everyone, especially those who, like me, cannot maintain much of an attention span for books.
You will love the enchanting history of Jarrell's inspiring and unexpected "animal family".
Also, Maurice Sendak's decorations throughout the book are a nice treat.
"That's what they called me.
The one who lives with the animals."My mother read this to me as a child & the memory of it has always been a warm light in my heart.
I finally decided read this on my own, as an adult.
I was around four when my mom read it to me.
It's so incredible to go back & re-read the books that carved us into who we are as people.
And it's magical to think that after all these years, this story is almost exactly as I remembered it.
Books we love become part of who we are and stay with us, always.
Absolutely beautiful.
Every once in a while, I pick this book up again so I can sink into its still and beautiful time-before-time. "Say what you like, but such things happen. Not often, but they do happen."
I got this for Christmas when I was 9 years old and I still love to read it. Touching, lovely, timeless.
I have just finished reading this book for the sixth or seventh time, and its power over me continues. It's simply gorgeous, an all-time favorite.
Too sophisticated to be a children's book, to simple to be for adults. I don't know what to do with it, but I love this lyrical, unexpected, and poetic book.
pure magic. very delicate.
An old friend, one of my favorite children's books ever.
Overall, this is a cute and original story of different people coming together to form a close-knit family.However, the blatant display of entitlement to disrupt others' lives for selfish gain really turned me off.
Fun start.But then he comes back from a forray all excited and happy because he's killed a mother bear and absconded with her cub to keep for himself.
His telling of the killing is happy and excited.Then he boasts of stealing a cub from a lynx mother, creepily saying to the cubs (after she warns her cubs to stay close so they'll be safe and not taken away) that yes, he is going to do so.
It is well-practiced compositional balance and rhythm.A lonely hunter happens upon a mermaid and falls in love.
The mermaid--intrigued by the land while the other "sea people" are afraid--moves in with him and, chapter by chapter, they build a family: a bear, a lynx and a human boy.There are many things to admire about the book, not least the pen-and-ink decorations by Maurice Sendak, and the near-perfect descriptions of the common antics of a cat: "He gave the ball two instantaneous bites, batted it from one paw to the other, flung it into the air, and then began to chase it around the room.
This is the book I wish I had memories of my mother reading to me.
And then a hunter and a mermaid and a bear.
And then a hunter and a mermaid and a bear and a lynx.
And then a hunter and a mermaid and a bear and a lynx and a little boy.
I was meandering along, just enjoying the lyrical flow of the book but feeling like I was going to give it three stars.
We say, 'Swim away from it'; we swim away from everything.But on land it's different.
No, the land's better!
I read this book when I was probably about 9 or 10, and I loved it.
I picked it up again in a bookstore, and read it again to see if it was as good as my 10 year old self though it.
Well it is, it's a simple story about a hunter who starts a family that consists of a mermaid, bear, lynx and finally an orphaned boy.
Simple story about an unconventional family...Noticeably absent is any reference to the hunter and mermaid getting married.
Also noticeably absent is any moral fretting about the fact that the bear and lynx are kidnapped from their real families to join them.
I picked up this dusty book at a used bookshop, drawn to the lilies on the cover more than anything else. Then when I saw it was illustrated by Maurice Sendak, I was sold. What an amazing find. This story is so beautifully written, and in such a simple way, yet entirely unique. There really is no plot to this book beyond hunter meets mermaid meets bear meets lynx, finds kid. But it doesn't need one, the writing just carries you through this dream of sunlit meadows and shadowy forests, of dark foamy beaches. Definitely will be re-reading this one.
I read this multiple times as a child and still love reading it as an adult. I found it while browsing the school library in elementary school. I love that it's about different kinds of creatures that all get along as a family. It taught me about embracing differences, although I didn't realize it as I was reading it the first time. Back then it was just a charming story. Now... well, it's still a charming story.
Even though this book is very simple, it's wonderful for just that reason. The characters don't have names- they're just "The Hunter, The Mermaid, The Lynx, The Boy, and The Bear"- but to me they had such great personality they didn't need names. It's very short, with about five sentences a page, but the artwork and sweet story make up for it completely. Even though it is a story about a couple who ends up together and has an adopted family, it's more about love than romance.
This book meant so much to me as a child. I found it packed away in a box of old favorites and wondered if my own children would sit still for it. With Harry Potter and friends for entertainment, I really didn't believe they would. It's a quiet story. I lined them up on the sofa anyway and began to read. They were mesmerized. They went unwillingly off to bed, begging for more, every night for a week. Beautiful.
Excellent. A lonely hunter gets himself, first, a most unusual wife out of the ocean and, second, a truly unique family out of the forest. Lovely writing, and a prefect book for reading aloud. Jarrell has real talent for evoking wonder and describing with great vividness the behavior of animals. This 1965 novel is a forgotten classic and worthy of being reprinted in, say, the NYRB-Kids line.
