https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34792.Instant_Replay

I really loved this book when I read it as a football-obsessed kid (maybe 12 or so) and I was startled by remembering how much I remembered of it and how articulate and thoughtful he really was.I remember how he describes training camp and how Lombardi made all the tryouts get up and sing in front of everybody- to test their meddle or something, I'm not sure.
But it's a brilliant move from a legendary coach, who gets his due from the inside here.How he worked out all day running sprints in Florida for training camp and when they went to a bowling alley to unwind afterwards they drank pepsi and it was so cold and so delicious after a day spent draining themselves it was the most delicious thing in the world.
"When I look back upon the 1967 season,......I remember a very special spirit, a rare camaraderie, something I can't quite define, but something I've tried to capture in this diary." Jerry KramerSpirit - camaraderie - achievement - teamwork, this book has it all with nothing held back - a great book about the NFL for any sports fan! p.s., will someone please look at the accomplishments of Jerry Kramer and get this guy into the NFL Hall of Fame.
This has always been one of my favorite books. It's the diary written by Jerry Kramer, an offensive lineman during the Lombardi years in Green Bay, during Lombardi's final season as coach. I still have the promotional paperback copy that was distributed with Personna razor blades and that I read as an 8-year-old in third grade. You may have to look around in a second-hand bookshop to find a copy these days but if you do find one, snap it up! It's one of the best sports books you'll ever read.
I'm a Packer fan (shh, don't tell my dad) and I had to read this for school.
My English teacher had fangirled over Jerry Kramer, sent him letters, and even got to speak with him on the phone, and she was all too proud to tell us about it.
I really enjoyed it and I think I got rebuked for reading it too quickly because unlike the other students who read to the prescribed point, I read the whole thing in a weekend and then had to censor myself for a month to resist giving spoilers.
"Instant Replay" is a fascinating look, in journal form, at an NFL season, through the eyes of veteran Green Bay Packer guard Jerry Kramer.
Kramer had been an integral part of the great Packer championship teams of the 1960s, and as he relates the story of a disappointing season without legendary Coach Vince Lombardi (who had stepped down after the previous Super Bowl to move into the front office), it's hard not to get a bit misty- eyed at times.
"Instant Replay" is a great book for a limited audience; there will be some difficulty understanding the story without at least some knowledge of the people involved.
For as much as I love the Packers, I've avoided this book for whatever reason -- probably because books written by athletes invariably suck. I'm not sure how much of this was actually Kramer and how much was ghostwritten by Dick Schaap, but this is as good of Packers/Lombardi book as I've read. Particularly fascinating was the amount of racism present -- both implied and overt. Makes sense considering this was the late '60s, but it's something that rarely comes up when you hear about the gilded dynasty years.
When I played high school football, my favorite team was the Green Bay Packers. I [layed right guard and Jerry Kramer was my hero. Not some wimpy quarterback. So of course I loved this book. But, as it turns out, the book was pretty well written, and given that the Pack won the SuperBowl that year, makes for a good story.
A best-seller in the 60's, this book chronicles the day-by-day of what was Jerry Kramer's last season with the Packers, and, as it turns out, the last season coach Vince Lombardi was with the team. A fascinating inside account of a football season decades before the internet, sports radio, etc.
One of my all time favorite books. Read this back when I was 10. Great candid insight into the coaches and players of the Green Bay Packers of the 1960s. If you're a Packers fan, I say this is a must read. If you just love sports (football), this is a great read.
I'm biased. I'm a Green Bay Packers fan but I'm a football fan even more. A great book about the "world" of football. Really enjoyable. I highly recommend it if you are a football fan.
The reason I still wear a Packers cap; also the reason I've never watched a complete NFL game since 1967 and the Ice Bowl. How do you climb higher than the top?
Loved this book. Right up there with the Jim Brown and Lombardi bios that I read around the same time.
If you like the Packers or football you'll love this book. Tons of great stories about the Lombardi era Packers.
Given that Jerry Kramer will be inducted into the Hall of Fame this year, it just felt right to read his amazing diary that wrote during the 1967 championship season.
Honestly,after reading this, I have no idea what took so long to put this player into the Hall of Fame.The first thing you will note in this book is how football has not changed as much as we think.
Kramer says about him: "He is a beautiful man, and the proof is that no one who ever played for him ever speaks of him afterward with anything but respect, admiration, and affection."A must read and one of the best football books I've ever read.
This was a fun, often repetitive, diary of Jerry Kramer through the Superbowl 2 season.
It's as much of an examination of Vince Lombardi as it is of Jerry Kramer.
There are also some fascinating stories about how dismissive Lombardi was of player's injuries.
Kramer is very honest about how conflicted he is about football, although this issue feels too easily resolved.
He spends most of the book talking about hating football, hating being yelled at, and hating putting his body through it.
Then in the epilogue he basically says that looking back after the season he loves football again and loves the teammates.
Diary of a professional football player during the 1967 season that led to their win at the Super Bowl. It was fun to read about players that later became actors (Karras, and Olsen) and about their meager salaries, even by 1960's standards. And the coach of the Packers, Vince Lombardi, wow!
4.5 / 5 stars!
Very entertaining. Awesome football.
It was interesting to get a little behind the scenes look at both the Packers and Jerry Kramer in 1967.
I read this forty years ago. I liked it then, but in retrospect, it feels sad to celebrate the book knowing how many of the participants had their lives ruined by the events described.
Awesome book - glad I finally read it. Any sports fan would appreciate Kramer’s descriptions of a football season with Vince Lombardi.
This was a must read for me throughout the course of time. I finally got it and it really dives into the 1967 season with the Packers in an amazing way. Very impressed by this the whole story long.
I only wish I had read this book sooner, I believe it would have benefited me a great deal during those days when I hated the man who I greatly admired and was willing to put myself in physical harm.
Kramer experienced both and shares what life is like for those under the human butt-kicking machine.It is now fifty years removed and yet some of the profound truths to success shared are as relevant today as it was then.
Lombardi did not have to provide a single speech on race equality – he simply demonstrated by his actions and others admired and followed.
There's no moment in here that compares to the end of George Plimpton's Paper Lion, where Detroit defensive end Alex Karras confesses to the author that he never wanted to be a "jockstrap athlete," but Instant Replay remains a fascinating evocation of a lost period in sports history: a moment where the Super Bowl still didn't matter as much as the NFC Championship, where bigger money was to be made off the field, where the players were stars but not superstars, and where the kind of locker room unrest that Meggyesy discusses (racial and otherwise) hadn't yet overwhelmed organizations like the Packers.
If you're a football fan, I recommend you read this book.
It also taught me some things about football I found interesting with a bit of humor.
For example, Jerry said that sometimes a linemen may appear to have a bad game but sometimes it's the QB's fault as well.
He said the linemen have an internal clock and will block for as long until they QB releases the ball.
The next game, Zeke was getting rid of the ball quicker and Jerry was having a better game.
It's a bit tongue-in-cheek in that because Zeke got rid of the ball quicker, Jerry had a better game.
I bought this book in 1968 and read it probably a dozen times over the years.
I liked it so much I convinced my freshman H.S. English comp teacher to allow me to write one of my bi-weekly book reports on it.
He read it first and agreed to let me write a report on it, but he seemed skeptical.
The book made me think about many important things and life lessons that I have carried with me to this day.
One of the habits I have maintained to this day is the concept of "Lombardi Time".
He also has a lot of great insight on other Packers such as Bart Starr, Ray Nietzke (spelling?) Paul Hornung, and of course the head coach Vince Lombardi.The book is not only insightful, but often very funny as Kramer talks about the day-to-day struggles to get ready for a game coming up later in the week.
If you are a fan of the NFL or football in general this is also a MUST read.Edited by the late great Dick Schaap, this book is five stars all the way.
I have been reading instant replay. Instant replay is a diary written by Jerry Kramer. Jerry Kramer was one of the best offensive linemen to play football and he was on the Green Bay Packers. Being a Packers fan all my life and loving Jerry Kramer I picked it up as soon as I saw it. It was very cool to see what's behind the locker room doors and how the best football team of its time was run. one thing that surprised me was how mean coach Lombardi was. He is hands down the best football coach of
Jerry Kramer was one of the best offensive linemen to play football and he was on the Green Bay Packers.
However his coaching style worked because the Green Bay Packers won two straight Super Bowls and were the dominant team in the league for a good amount of time.
Even though I haven't read a lot of books in my life, this is definitely my favorite.
If you aren't a lot all fan then most of the book won't make sense and it will not be an enjoyable read.
I feel that I have a better understanding of what a football player goes through to become the person on the field that he is: the sacrifice, the dedication and most definitely, the pain and suffering.
I do have one question: why is Jerry Kramer not in the Pro Football Hall of Fame?
But I am so glad he wrote this book, to give each of us an excellent story of a first-rate football player and person, and of the great joy and satisfaction it is to be on a team, all working together for a common goal.
