https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/444653.How_to_Measure_Anything
The most important thing I learned from this book: “A measurement is a set of observations that reduce uncertainty where the result is expressed as a quantity.” Finally! Someone has clearly explained that measurements are all approximations. Very often in social research, I have to spend a lot of time explaining that metrics don’t need to be exact to be useful and reliable. Hopefully, this book will help me shorten those conversations.
297 references to risk, and only 29 references to opportunity. No mention of unknown unknowns (or black swans), and no mention of the observer effect (goodhart's law). A great book, teaching you all about metrics, as long as you ignore complexity.
If a thing can be observed in any way at all, it lends itself to some type of measurement method.
And those very things most likely to be seen as immeasurable are, virtually always, solved by relatively simple measurement methods.Measurement: a quantitatively expressed reduction of uncertainty based on one or more observations.
Don’t assume that the only way to reduce your uncertainty is to use an impractically sophisticated method.
The second step is to disregard that which can’t easily be measured or to give it an arbitrary quantitative value.
Don’t attempt a massive study to measure something if you have a lot of uncertainty about it now.
But it downplays the key issue—which is data quality challenges, of which there are at least two types.
The first is the "moneyball" type: a phenomenon where we know intuitively that there are important differences in measurable outcomes but we lack statistically significant explanations.
The challenge here is to find things to measure that are consistently revealing of the phenomenon you are ultimately interested in measuring (say team wins).
Making it harder is that sometimes you need to build a supercollider in order to measure the phenomenon in question, and for many reasons that may not always be feasible.
Hubbard not only champions the belief that anything can be measured, he gives you the means (the understanding of how) to get it done.
I have used his book on numerous occasions when tackling some difficult data collection efforts.
This is a great tool, not only for measuring, but for any role that requires good estimating.Nothing is perfect, and Hubbard has at least one chapter where I think he failed to simplify life - his chapter on measuring risk was too complicated (unless you are a statistician).
Great book - especially for those tasked with collecting the data necessary to measure stuff!
It could be summed up as a "basic statistics for business" book, although it definitely goes beyond that in many aspects.As the title suggests, throughout the whole book the author strongly defends the case that everything can be measured, even though the method may not be obvious at first glance.
Looking back, this non-obvious insight is precisely what we needed when facing some specific analytical and decision-making problems in my firm.Overall, this is one of the most interesting books I've read in the past few months, and it should be a great investment of time & money to any professional that mildly deals with quantitative problems at work.
I read this book because I have to make decisions every day.
What about all the things involved that can't be measured?Ah, that is where this book was insightful an helpful.
The group I manage has a lot of dynamic and organic tasks to perform each day.
But Hubbard teaches many techniques and alternate ways to look at things to get some way of quantifying; perhaps not precisely, but enough to help navigate the myriad pieces of information that can go into a business decision.You have to "want" to read this book.
then you'll "want" to read this book.
The network defenders have not been smart enough to convey the technical risks to business leaders in a way they might understand.This CISO inability is the reason that the Canon Committee inducted "How to Measure Anything in Cybersecurity Risk,” and another precision risk book called “Measuring and Managing Information Risk: A FAIR Approach” into the Canon Hall of Fame.
I decided to get back to the basics and read Hubbard’s original book that Winterfeld referenced in his review: “How to Measure Anything: Finding the Value of “Intangibles” in Business” to see if it was also Canon worthy.The Network Defender’s misunderstanding of Metrics, Risk Reduction and ProbabilitiesThroughout the book, Hubbard emphasizes that seemingly dense and complicated risk questions are not as hard to measure as you might think.
Lots of great commentary on why using data is important... his processes for measurement are less... interesting? A good read for data people. :)
Happened to read the book from IIBA.org site where I have been a member since last year.
The best takeaway from the book is the structural thought process it brings in while dealing with intangibles which we always are demotivated to measure.
To summarize my learning, I would just mention the below which I have copied from the book.1-If it's really that important, it's something you can define.
People who are not that fond of Mathematics and data may find it bit too much, but this book is worth reading at least once.
The second half is also very heavily into statistics which could be a somewhat laborious read for some.The first half is very recommended as it goes into what it means to “measure” something and suggest some very fundamental questions regarding measuring.
Hubbard also gives some very good pointers as to how you calibrate yourself to counteract psychological biases.If you read it, make sure you dedicate a good amount of time on the first half as imo, this is where most of the loot is located.
Classical Greeks not only figured out that the planet is round, but had it measured.
Eratosthenes calculated its circumference from a lunch-hour measurement at his library in Alexandria during the summer solstice, knowing only his distance from the Tropic of Cancer.
Eratosthenes is a hero of Chicago statistician Doug Hubbard, who trains managers in "calibrated estimates," basically closely observed ballpark figures.
Not only does Hubbard open up the black box of predictive modeling, but he also points to ways we can think about thinking: It's risky to rely on just gut instinct, but maybe we can trust our gut once we measure just how far to trust it.
This was a fantastic read. It helps with general numeracy as well as providing an overview on how to think about measurement and statistics practically. This is an area where I have some experience and I still learned a lot. This book, especially the first half, should be accessible to everyone.The second half is a bit more technical and I wished I had been reading in paper instead of in audio. I may do that eventually. The pacing is a little hard in audio and I could have benefited from notes, but still... a great read and actively beneficial.
The title made me curious. The author did make the case that anything can be measured including many things that we consider abstract or intangible. The stories it gave at the start of the book is fascinating and opened my mind about what we think measurement really is. There is no perfect measurement. There is no absolute truth. Measurement is a quantitativly expressed reduction of uncertainty based on one or more observations. I also find the methods to define the problem and the notion that a measurement has to support a decision is helpful.
Fairly good business statistics book on measuring factors and on how to apply measurement and some good risk analysis. Definitely overhyped as a revolutionary booklet (I think this happens with business books a lot.) But it is accessible and gives some good advice on how to measure things statistically and using statistical methods for practical applications but it isn't the second coming.
I purchased this book because I am in the middle of a project where I have to measure an "intangible". I liked the author's ideas on breaking down a measurement and figuring out the uncertainty factor on each variable. The information he provided helped me to find a solution for my project.
Perhaps not the best read in audio because of some math and a lot of pictures etc.
Towards the end of the book, it starts getting very math- and statistics-heavy, and necessarily so, to present the complete content of his methodology.
Wow. I finished this audiobook, but the voice acting is SO bad that I spent the first third of the book getting used to listening to him, detracting from the concentration I had to pay towards the content.
Another annoyance that I could not get over: The voice actor read, literally, over and over again, e.g., "i e" and "e g" instead of converting them to "that is" and "for example"...
Objective Model if Historical Data is availableThey myth that is dispelled in the book is that when you have a lot of uncertainity, you don't need too much data to reduce uncertainity significantly.
Event a very small amount of relevant data will go a long way to reduce the uncertainity.Some of the issues that must be avoided are1.
Model the current state of uncertainity about those variables3.
Measure the high-value uncertainities in a way that is economically justified5.
Make risk/return decision after the economically justified amount of uncertainity is reduced.A must read for all decision makers, which is all of us.
If you are careful about what you pick, that is, is the value of better information high enough in this instance, you are likely to discover that spending even minor resources to measure something that others call "intangible" may drastically reduce your uncertainty about an outcome.YOu don't need a statistics background to understand and appreciate this book - though having one will accelerate the time it takes for you to fully comprehend what the author is doing.I'm anxious to apply some of this to my next measurement problem, I think there are some very powerful tools in this book.Next time somebody tells you that "There's no way to measure that" - toss this book their way and ask "Are you sure?
The author makes a point of saying that it has been adopted as reading material for university classes but how it has not been written as a textbook.
There is plenty of material online on them, and I was fine doing the calculations on my own with pen and paper, but I would expect to at least understand where the author is going with everything.Finishing this book, I feel like I know of more methods to make measurements and more algorithms that should allow me to interpolate and extrapolate information from the data I have.
A good book about the value of measuring things in business.
My top 5-10 takeaways were:- To be valuable, a measurement doesn't have to remove uncertainty, it just needs to reduce it.- If it matters at all, it is detectable/observable.
(Even for "touch-feely" things like employee engagement.)- You often don't need to know something with absolute certainty.
The amount when it starts to matter is the "threshold".
That is a way to get value from experts.
The first measures will reduce uncertainty the most.
This might be all you need.There are also some handy measuring instruments (Mathless 90% CI, Rule of 5).
It's hard to read sometimes, but the greatest value of this book could sum up into 3 to 6 questions:1.
What is the value of the measurement?
What is threshold for error and is additional effort economically justified?^ This defines if I really NEED to measure something4.
So what do we know about the subject?
How do we measure errors, and how we can avoid them.^ This could be probably changed based on the subjective perception of a group of people, but most of the time you just need to understand how to validate your hypothesis.
Though parts of the book can get fairly deep into mathematical examples, overall it was very readable and, if nothing else, offered a plethora of ways to find and use measurements.
Personally I thought the author was a bit too dismissive of some decision techniques, his emphasis is on probabilistic models and eschews deterministic methods, but he did at least provide a broad scope of processes and backed up his preferences with ample reasoning.
Recommended if you want to take a plunge into being more data driven in your day-to-day applications.
If we understand "measuring" as "reducing uncertainty", we lower all of our mechanisms that protect us from metrics. Hubbard maintains the text just in between of informative and highly mathematical, something that can attract or cause discomfort. It worked for me.The author presents his approach to measurement and defends an statistical approach to decision making.Bayes, Paul Meehl, Kahneman, Tversky or Fermi are some of the references used in the book.You can learn about estimates, calibration, risk, sampling, errors, forecasting and bias.It's a thick book, sometimes dense, but contains knowledge you can use inmediately.
If you ever wondered how to apply statistics that are taught in school to a business, this books lays the ground for it. It's an interesting read that starts with several examples of how the circumference of the Earth was first measured. It goes into what we can learn from these examples and further diving into the statistics part. The books has examples from the author's experience and tries to make the math easy to digest. Overall, I liked the deconstruction on the measurement and the small and valuable lessons throught the book.
Although the title is bold, I do think the book delivers sufficient arguments that support the thesis. I'm still not convinced that the method scales well to smaller contexts, though - it seems to fit better larger, riskier decisions.I do recommend the book to anyone that is interested in how to make decisions in a more quantitative, objective manner. People that have stronger math or stats backgrounds might find the technical parts a bit shallow, but still I find the whole mindset more interesting and valuable than the implementation details.
The framewprk introduced in three book is very helpful in hopes to break down decision making in a measurement oriented way. It can be easy to get lost in the math, but the top level point that if you observe the problem, you can measure it's success is a good one. I also appreciated it's pragmatic approach to measurement, acknowledging that often of you organize the information you already know, you might not need to collect anything new. Overall it was a very helpful read.
Awesome idea. The first chapters are worthwile to fully understand his point. The last ones are more practical and addressed for people without a deep probability/statistics background. If you want to better understand the practical side of "measuring anything" those chapters do not suffice.
Brilliant! How to measure what you think is unmeasurable - like the intangible values in business. One of those books where I have the audio, ebook and hardcover version. Because it is just that essential.
