https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1229884.Journey_to_Armenia

For those who respect fate's arguments, the rite of seeing someone off contains a sinister nuptial animation.""Someone told the story about the man ill with Addison's disease who lay sprawled down below on the Yakimanka and leved right there: he drank vodka, read the newspaper, played dice with a passion, and at night took his wooden leg off and slept on it for a pillow"No, this is a travel book in name only.
It is the last published work of a great poet who wrote a few lines attacking Stalin and was shortly thereafter hustled off to Siberia where he died in or near Vladivostok six years later.Read his poem, which I quote in my  blog  about him on Multiply.Com.
Baciami, ma di Mandel'štam straziami Questo potrebbe essere l'inizio di una bella storia d'amore. Intendo fra me e Osip Mandel'štam. E siccome ogni grande storia d'amore inizia fra sospiri e dolci moine, ma ben poche sono le parole compiute che si pronunciano, allora io mi affido alla saggia e oltremodo sublime penna di Serena Vitale che, per me, andrebbe tutelata come patrimonio nazionale:"Quello di Mandel'štam in Armenia è un viaggio nel tempo. Il movimento promesso dal titolo avviene soltant
E siccome ogni grande storia d'amore inizia fra sospiri e dolci moine, ma ben poche sono le parole compiute che si pronunciano, allora io mi affido alla saggia e oltremodo sublime penna di Serena Vitale che, per me, andrebbe tutelata come patrimonio nazionale:"Quello di Mandel'štam in Armenia è un viaggio nel tempo.
Musica, teatro, letteratura, pittura, scienza - le Muse riconoscono la loro parentela e al seguito di Mnemosine intrecciando solidali girotondi, partecipano concordi alla creazione del Libro dei libri."Mandel'štam ci invia questo Viaggio dal "nero velluto della notte sovietica", profeta facile di tutto ciò che la Russia sarebbe diventata, di quanto sull'altare dei piani quinquennali e della "letteratura di missione" si stava sacrificando.
One of the most poetic books I've ever read.Short and pleasant as a sip of a precious nectar.At first I was a little bit disappointed by having found not a travel book through Armenia as I was looking for.
I don't have the patience (or the talent) to read in a careful way whole books or collections of poems, but this one is something closer and never get me bored or sceptical.
It's just a pity there are very few mentions to the Armenian way of life, but clearly Mandelstam was not supposed to be a journalist there and he filled his notebooks with impressions a journalist would have missed.
Lui: andiamo in ArmeniaIo: ok perfettoLui: guarda il sito archeologicoIo: bello, ci sono resti...Lui: le farfalleIo: sì, ma non stavamo parlando di rovine?Lui: Linneo!
Papaveri!
I papaveri sono bruttiIo: Ma no dai, a me piacc...Lui: guarda il monastero!Io: Aspe...Lui: la lingua armena!Io: sì ma...Lui: tornati a MoscaIo: quando?!?!Lui: poesie!Io: mai provato il Ritalin?Scherzi a parte, mi sono trovata a 2/3 del libro senza sapere come.
E viene voglia di tornare indietro, per rileggere più lentamente e assimilare l'entusiasmo di Mandelstam, poeta e filologo.Forse non ho imparato poi tanto sulla geografia armena, ma ora so che è una regione che suscita eccitazione.
I think Henry Gifford gets it right in his introduction:Always, whether in verse or prose, he expects to be met with the ready perceptiveness that Dante, as Madelstam points out, so greatly valued. "You grasp things, on the wing, you are sensitive to allusions -- this is Dante's favorite form of praise." Mandelstam in Journey to Armenia is always on the wing.
Like nothing else I have read. Seemed very timeless, flowing from one thought to another. Lots of to me fairly obtuse references but that shows the difference in educational focus in the later 20th century I guess. Very poetic in style rather than narrative.
The most beautiful book I know
Many years later Nadezhda would write that the journey to Armenia had given Mandelstam back his gift for poetry.
(not knowing that journey would be his exile and later his imprisonment near Vladivostok, who said that real life is always stranger than our weirdest - even Mandelstam's - imagination)In between the ‘conventional’ beginning and ending, we ‘wander’ back and forth without warning between Moscow and Armenia, between traditional narrative and meditations on art and science, life and death all in a highly personal approach.
A very strange travel book, not as much a journey to Armenia as one to the author's rich mind and assosiative and lingual powers. Best be read with a sense of humour (shouldn't everything?). Extremely quote-friendly. Short, only about 60 pages, so a quick read for whenever you feel you need "something just a little bit different". Why this book got the editor fired in the Soviet Union, is hard to fathom. It was the Stalin era though. Maybe that's explaination enough.
Excellent descriptions. Shows the regional history , linked to a major context. As a talentous poet , Ossip mixes senses and feelings at a divine way. Sevan , Ashtarak , and much more!
"Ежедневно, ровно в пятом часу, озеро, изобилующее форелями, закипало, словно в него была подброшена большая щепотка соды. Это был в полном смысле слова месмерический сеанс изменения погоды, как будто медиум напускал на дотоле спокойную известковую воду сначала дурашливую зыбь, потом птичье кипение и, наконец, буйную ладожскую дурь."
Mendelstam leto pred prvim vzaporovzetjem "skoči" še v sovjet priključeno Armenijo, kjer pa ne išče Stalinovega Novega človeka, temveč se prepričuje, da so se post-razsvetljenski naturalisti pravzaprav spozabili - Darwin se je namreč zmotil - ni vedel, da človek izvira iz Armenije.
Very poetic description of my homeland. Mandelshtam definitely managed to create mood of the place and create the exact atmosphere of the place.
"e per di più, la leggerezza ha fatto irruzione anche nella mia vita- come sempre secca e disordinata, e che io mi immagino come la solleticante attesa dell'esito di una lotteria dal premio assicurato dove posso estrarre qualsiasi cosa"
