https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13824.The_Doors_of_His_Face_the_Lamps_of_His_Mouth
Zelazny was a master at the short, novelette and novella (rather a pity, since his world-building often leaves me wanting much more) and this collection almost consistently kicked my mental butt for his exploration of humanity and his creativity.
"He should have hated being reported stolen during the first week of his career, with nothing to face then but the prospect of second-rate galleries or an uneasy role in the cheerless private collections of cheerless and private collectors."Divine Madness: a man is caught in a time loop relieves the death of his wife.
What an ending!The Graveyard Heart: a man meets a beautiful woman who is a member of the Set, an elite, eternal group.
An excellent collection of short stories from one of the greatest science fiction writers.
Devil Car. At the time the story was written the idea of sentient cars seemed pretty ridiculous.
It is arguable if this is the best piece of fiction Zelazny ever written, but it is undoubtedly his best short story, period.
This is all I want to say about the collection in general.Mind you, not all the stories are equally good and some might not work for everybody, but if you call yourself a fan of science fiction this book is a must read.
I last looked at this collection 35 years ago and I can still remember at least half of them, so I conclude that it must be pretty good.
I think I liked the love stories most: "A Rose for Ecclesiastes", where the Earth poet visits the doomed Martian society and falls in love with their priestess, and "The Man Who Loved The Faioli", in which Zelazny pulls off the near-impossible feat of creating a moving romance between a vampire and a cyborg.
Really, I'm not being ironic!
He was one of the brightest SF talents around during the early to mid-60s.
I used to think I loved Roger Zelazny's writing.
After trying out a few more of his books, I realized that it was THIS collection in particular that I loved.
(It's about a genetically-engineered race of cat-people who alternate between waking and cold-sleep for thousands of years in order to terraform a planet they can live on.
And at 44 years old it most likely predates any Furry fiction out there.
But don't quote me on that.) "A Rose for Ecclesiastes" is another favorite, but I had to re-read it about fifteen years after the first read before I could really appreciate it.
There are some stories I like less than others but the ones I loved more than compensated for those.
Highlights includeThe Keys To December - Wherein a race of Catform people, genetically modified to work for mining corporation on a planet that was unexpectedly destroyed, seek to in turn modify a new planet so that they can live freely.
It turns out that the changes they make in the planet cause one of the native races to become intelligent and look upon the cat-people as their gods.
Devil Car - A tale of sentient cars, like a hardcore version of that Pixar movie.
This is the first work of Zelazny's I've read. I'm not all that impressed by the inventiveness of the plots; what stuck with me was the astonishing, highly poetic, sometimes almost biblical or prophetic language and imagery. This is a writer.
And, of course, Zelazny managed to make me like sci-fi with this book, because he's just that good.I could give a general review for the book, but I think I'll just go story-by-story instead (mostly so I can remember what they're all about when the memories of reading this collection leave my mind in about 3 months).1.
Zelazny always wrote great dialogue, and there's a little bit of humor injected into this story simply by the use of a funny-sounding made-up word.
Corrida: Didn't read this because I've read it in another collection (Manna From Heaven), but I remember thinking it was pretty interesting for such a short story.13.
This collection encompasses the short fiction of the middle 1960s, when Zelazny was at the height of his power (his two novel Hugos were awarded in this time.) The stories are lyrical meditations on great themes of life, death, change, and small moments of humanity in the face of the absolute powers of the universe.
The stories are all solid, but the clear standout is "A Rose for Ecclesiastes", which follows a genius poet on a mission to understand Martian religion and culture, and translate the who sense of that dying race.
Fisher, climber, cowboy romanticism, terraforming, a proto-amber and other stories.My favourite ★★★★★ story was  A Rose for Ecclesiaste  No ★ or  ★★ for me were  The Great Slow Kings  Corrida   Contents:  ★★★★ for The Doors of His Face, the Lamps of His Mouth • (1965) • fisher story on Old Venus -  review  ★★★1/2 for The Keys to December • (1966) • terraforming for Cold Cats - review  ★★★ for Devil Car • (1965) • Wild West romanticism with A.I. cars -  review  ★★★★★ • A Rose for Ecclesiastes • (
Contents:  ★★★★ for The Doors of His Face, the Lamps of His Mouth • (1965) • fisher story on Old Venus -  review 
★★ for The Great Slow Kings • (1963) • satirical and witty story about reptile Gods taking years for simple conversations, witnessing civilizations fade away while they try to come up with answers.
★★★★ for Divine Madness • (1966) • reverse time love story - review 
★★★★ for Love is an Imaginary Number • (1966) • proto-Amber - review 
★★★ for The Man Who Loved the Faioli • (1967) • A month.
This elegant tale, winner of the Nebula for best Novelette in 1965, has somehow not made its way into any of those "best of short stories" collections that come out year after year, always containing the same old classic titles with maybe one or two new mainstream authors included for freshness.
Told by a black narrator, with elements of the racial insensitivity of the 1960s and 70s, we see a troupe of master fishermen and women coming together for the catch of the millennia -- a staggeringly massive fish, larger than any earthborn creature.
“The Doors of His Face The Lamps of His Mouth” by Roger Zelanzy, © 1971 A very nice collection of short stories by Mr. Zelanzy.'The Doors of His Face The Lamps of His Mouth' –  A fishing tale told of Venus. It is a bit confusing because the people seem to be talked of in the third person, then they appear to be the people talking, and there is a bit of a love storyu in here, too.'The Keys to December' –  Humans have developed the ability to create life forms that can live in environments other t
It is a bit confusing because the people seem to be talked of in the third person, then they appear to be the people talking, and there is a bit of a love storyu in here, too.'The Keys to December' – 	Humans have developed the ability to create life forms that can live in environments other than Earth.
Another planet is found and terra-formed into one these created beings can live on, to the demise of the present inhabitants.'Devil Cat' – 	In this future time, cars have self-awareness.
It is a nice enough planet with good enough people.
I suspect that in the pulp era that this story is responding to, the relationship would be reconciled by the culmination of the action, rather than the give-and-take of power.
THIS MORTAL MOUNTAIN seems to be a return to this same theme of a man exiting retirement to take down the white whale, yet is still surprising and powerful in its resolution.A ROSE FOR ECCLESIASTES subverts the pulp era style even more than DOORS.
And who doesn’t love a good Loki story?Of the light fare in the collection A MUSEUM PIECE is the most absurdistly endearing.
The Great Slow Kings, Museum Piece and Collector's Fever were funny, clever and bizarre; Zelazny doesn't receive nearly enough credit for his chummy wit.I wasn't a huge fan of the titular short, and the later stories felt a little flat.
This may be because I'm spoiled, and my love affair with Zelazny began with some of his finest work (Lord of Light, Creatures of Light and Darkness, A Night In The Lonesome October).Recommended for Zelazny fans and anyone interested in early 60's Sci Fi from a young master.
If it had not hooked me in, then I probably would not have picked it up and would have put it into my occasional donate pile.I went in knowing nothing of the author's writing ability or anything about the short stories collected, except for the cover telling me that the leading story won the Nebula Award.
I will be forever grateful to my boyfriend for picking them up at a locale library book sale.As the stories developed around me I was astounded at the intelligence and creativity behind each world building and character.
Usually, I am not one for a love story, but my goodness!
I got a little over halfway through this awesome collection of stories (to Divine Madness) before the overdue notices started assaulting me; I took a while to get through the first story because I wasn't really familiar with Zelazny's style, but by A Rose For Ecclesiastes I was completely absorbed.Zeleazny's writing is spectacular.
I could list all the synonyms for 'spectacular', but instead of that I will just recommend that you read his descriptions of the storm, both brewing and happening, in This Moment Of The Storm.
I'd like to do a story-by-story review, but I will need to hold off until I acquire a copy.
Anyway, intensely recommended.
Having read the first few Amber novels and generally liked them, I was surprised at how much stronger some of these stories are than the series he seems to be remembered by.
The twists and turns of the Amber series are certainly fun, but the writing seems much lighter in tone, possibly simplified for the masses, or per a publisher's request.The stories served up here range from dark to humorous, but Zelazny's intellect is clearly on display.
In the short stories here, Zelazny maintains a brash, belligerent style, and a preference for smug, egocentric, cigarette-smoke blowing narrators.
His language, though colorful and poetic, is hard to follow most of the time, and I ended up reading and rereading parts to get a grip on the going ons.
Well, not all stories are at the same level of density, but most of them rank pretty high up there.
It was infuriating at times, but pretty intense at the others.
Zelazny cares more about imagery than he does about science, and each of his stories make you stop and think.
I really liked this collection, but the treatment of women as plot devices rather than characters demoted this read to three stars.
However, there was not one story where a female character existed in her own right; she was always present to affect the main male character (and many of these female characters died to further the male's plot - expendable women isn't a theme I support).
My favorite story was "This Moment of the Storm," and there were many other stories with thought-provoking ideas, but they didn't affect me emotionally (and, again, the treatment of female characters was deplorable).
"[...] brainsmash and binding to this Otherwhen." Gorgeous, expressionist stories written with a lot of love. I'm not all that used to expressionist sci-fi yet, and this was a fantastic journey into some very experimental tales.
Dated, but entertaining stories. Some very short, some more like novellas, all very good!
7/10
Worth reading and appreciating for Zelazny's prose, but it's too much of a vignette for me to rate it much higher."The Man Who Loved the Faioli" ★★★★ | I really liked this one, probably on par with "A Rose for Ecclesiastes." John Auden, a man who is not always living (a la Cordwainer Smith's "Scanners Live in Vain"), tends a planetary graveyard where robots bring the dead of countless worlds.
Bleak in a very "we must consider Sisyphus happy" sort of way.OVERALL RATING: ★★★ | I would definitely recommend the title story, "A Rose For Ecclesiastes," "Devil Car," "Divine Madness," and "The Man Who Loved the Faioli." That's, fittingly, 5 out of 15 of the stories.
Några är korta och humoristiska (mannen har ju en bevisligen knastertorr humor som är riktigt bra), några mer pulpiga, som titelnovellen, "This Mortal Mountain" och "A Rose..." men i författarens händer så stiger de över vad det antyder.
Om inte annat så lyfter Zelaznys språk det hela oerhört.
Det vore poänglöst att radda upp alla novellerna och prata om dem individuellt men några favoriter har jag förstås.
Det kan bli lite väl att alla huvudkaraktärer egentligen är i mångt och mycket samma person, Zelazny har sin röst och han gillar den, men det är inte så karbonkopierat att det stör jättemycket, egentligen.
Mad Max-ish, but totally original.Divine Madness (6.0) Man loses wife in car accident, now has siezures where everything happens in reverse.
Trying to figure out if he's the devil, Prometheus or just man in general.Lucifer (7.0) Not sure why it's called "Lucifer" but damn is it poignant.The Great Slow Kings (9.0) Excellent, they're like ents only even slower.The Keys to December (7.0) Forgot to add notes, but I remember liking it.The Mortal Mountain (6.0) Original.
Super witty, cool original plot.
On the surface, then, the stories don't seem to have much to offer, were it not for the author's remarkable talent to paint a setting, and sometimes even twang an emotional nerve.The Keys to December uses an utterly unconvincing romance story as a backdrop to an interesting take on a world being ravaged by terraformers.
The overall impression I got from most of the stories was like looking at a painting with a botched portrait, but a killer sunset in the background.The stories are quite varied in what they offer.
This collection contains Zelazny's earliest stories.
As such it contains some very good, some adequate, and some poor stories.
Zelazny's best strength is in creating story concepts, but major weaknesses is his writing of female characters, and sometimes failing to do his concept justice.The Doors of His Face, the Lamps of His Mouth, was apparently intended by Zelazny to be titled The Leviathan of Venus, a much more apt title.
Though all the characters excepting the main character fall flat, it uses Ecclesiastes cleverly, and is almost a literary story.
Devil Car is a decent action story involving combat cars with advanced AI.
My only nitpick is that I got the feeling the stories got darker the further into the book I got, with the last one lacking even the smallest promise of a reprieve for the character; in that sense, I would have liked if there had been an epilogue or something that felt more 'complete' as the closing story.Still, the collection remains a very deserved Nebula winner, and definitely something that any sci-fi fan should check out, at least once.
I've somehow managed to read very little of this highly regarded author's work - after TDoHFtLoHMaOS, I will be looking to rectify this.Tales told for the love of telling tales.
There's the melancholy (and the outride sad), the love story (unrequited, the happier sort, the lost), the adventure (hunts, climbs, floods), the comedic (where the joke is told, explored, but isn't allowed to wear thin)...
Moreover, he wastes no time in his telling, saying what he needs to say and getting out - making this collection -for all its variations- a relatively lean and quick read with no padding to sag beneath.
I was a huge fan of Zelazny when I was younger. After reading this again for the first time in more than twenty years, I discovered that I still am. Some of the tropes have worn better than others, but the stories here are all inventive, lyrical, twisty things that never take the easy path. The standout story in the collection is probably "A Rose For Ecclesiastes" - so it's rather fitting that a digital copy of the text now resides on Mars on a mini DVD carried by the Phoenix lander.
(1)1 DNF (2)3.5 (3)2.5 (4)1 DNF (5)1 (6)4.5 (7)1 DNF (8)1 DNF (9)4.5 (10)1 DNF (11)3 (12)2.5 (13)1 DNF (14)4.5 (15)2 (16) 1 DNF (17)1 DNF. if you've read any of the authors other work, I would recommend this free ebook just for the couple storys that I really enjoyed, though they could of been better.
