https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40490167-maus
4.5 Very very very powerful and I like that you see the relationship between Spiegelman and his father throughout.
I was deeply moved by Spiegelman's story about his father's experiences in Poland and Auschwitz during World War II.
When I asked her why she was so fascinated by that period, she said she was trying to understand how something like the Holocaust could have happened.
Despite having already read a great deal about WWII, one of the things I especially liked about the Maus books was hearing how Spiegelman's father managed to survive.
I liked the minimalist drawings because it kept the story moving and the focus was more on the words and the meanings.I think this is a significant memoir of the Holocaust and would highly recommend it.
His son, Art Spiegelman, is an illustrator and wants to write the story of his father's experiences during World War II.
The story is also of Art himself, the interviews and relationship with his father.The story alternates between the present day interviews and shifts into the past through Vladek's recollections.
The illustrations are straightforward and in a black-and-white style.
I highly recommend this book, it is a powerful and emotional story.
I am starting the second volume right away.FINAL NOTE: below is what I found to be one of the most powerful scenes in the book.
This is one of those graphic novels that everyone is telling the world to read.
Acclaimed as one of the best graphic novels out there.
This graphic novel was a good way to refresh my memory.
I know that somewhere in the world today, people are still being abused like this, if not worse.
I seem to have this problem with most of the graphic novels that I read.
I'm not sure if it's the graphic novels itself, or the way the author describes them.
Artie and Anja were really enjoyable, but the other ones felt a bit dull.One more problem that I encountered would be the artwork.
Extraordinary.....If there was a Pulitzer Prize for the BEST ALREADY winners of the Pulitzer .....Art Spieglman's books would be a very high contender.Point is... The creation of Maus exceeds expectations... which you might have heard through the grapevine. Maus, Vol 1: "My Father Bleeds"....is painful, personal, brilliant ..,and needs to be experienced first hand...( as all his books do)....Then we might have a discussion still worse to come, is Vol 2. "My Trouble Begins"
In my teens and twenties, I read everything I could get my hands on on the Third Reich and the Middle Ages, as I had an abnormal urge to seek out the darkness in human souls.
It is heartening to see it breaking out of that straitjacket and maturing - in books like The Complete Persepolis and the this one.--------------------------------------------------------------"The Jews are undoubtedly a race, but not human" - Adolf HitlerDehumanising the enemy is the first step towards eliminating them: which is what Hitler tried to do with Jews and nearly succeeded.
Re-read September 5, 2015: I think I absorbed a lot more of the story and its power the second time around. It's really wonderfully crafted, and I can't wait to finally read the second volume because this one ends sort of abruptly. First read January 3-9, 2014
When I was a kid I read comic books (mostly Superman). The Maus books are the only graphic novels I've read and I consider them masterpieces (Mausterpieces?). Like Spiegelman's alter ego, I was a middle class child growing up in Queens (NYC), the son of Holocaust survivors and couldn't communicate with my father when I was growing up. He got it down perfectly. It was spot on and ranks among the best of Holocaust related literature.
When I switched my major to English in my senior year, I had a lot of back classes to take, especially intro classes with freshmen and sophmores, though my last intro class was a night class with primarily older women, who worked full time jobs in Edison or the Amboys and a bushel of kids waiting at home.
Basically, they were there to learn more about literature, sort of as a self-improvement class for the non-literary.
Yet as time went by, those last descriptive sentences I wrote became complete crap.
We became a class of studious literary scholars on par with any graduate program.
The Jews are illustrated as rats, the Poles as pigs – only willing to risk their lives to save the Jews if money was involved and the Germans as cats.This novel is truly great at depicting the horrific events that happened during the Holocaust but it’s not the only reason I would recommend it.
My grandfather ran a large successful family business there and having listened to my father’s story many times, he talked about how they were forced out of their businesses and homes.
Although what happened in Germany is not the same as this, I couldn’t help but think of my own father’s experience.
It hits you like a truck going twice the speed limit...
One article I read credits this book (and two others) with changing the public's perception of comics and potentially starting the use of the term "graphic novel." I have read only one other graphic novel (the beautiful and brilliant Can't We Talk about Something More Pleasant?
As father and son meet and talk, the drawings seamlessly transition from present day into the past throughout the book, giving a sense that those memories were always near to and part of him.
Vladek's syntax and word choices make it so the reader can actually hear his accent, feel his escalating anger at times, understand the disconnect between father and son.
The characters are mice and cats and pigs.
BUT NONE OF THEM ACT LIKE MICE OR CATS OR PIGS.
In conversation with my friend Barry* it came up that "It's just cats chasing mice.
I feel that there was great potential to use the animal characteristics to do interesting and inventive things, but basically they're just humans that look like animals.I have a few other issues: I don't like the way the son treats the father (that won't make sense unless you've read this, sorry), and I haven't really been able to feel emotionally attached to anything (apart, of course, from the normal sense of sadness that comes from thinking of the holocaust).
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI didn't intend for my first book of 2018 to be so depressing, but MAUS is such a creative, important book. In MAUS, Art Spiegelman uses the medium of graphic novel to tell the moving, and sometimes hair-raising story of his father, Vladek: a holocaust survivor from Poland.Juxtaposed against scenes where a now middle-aged Art is chatting with his elderly father in his home in Queens are scenes of the gradual chokehold that that Nazis formed
In MAUS, Art Spiegelman uses the medium of graphic novel to tell the moving, and sometimes hair-raising story of his father, Vladek: a holocaust survivor from Poland.Juxtaposed against scenes where a now middle-aged Art is chatting with his elderly father in his home in Queens are scenes of the gradual chokehold that that Nazis formed around what later became Nazi-controlled territories.
This comic, "Prisoner on Planet Hell" is done with real people, which adds an extra layer of surrealism: a mouse, writing his memoir as a human.If you're interested in WWII history and enjoy those "literary" graphic-novels that are about more weighty topics than capes and superheroes, I really recommend MAUS.
The story of a Jew's survival. Jews as depicted as mice and Germans as cats. A poignant story; really good, the character Vladek (the survivor): can you imagine him on a German prisoners camp, a freezing Autumn, birds falling from trees due to cold...and Vladek taking a shower at the river: to stay clean and warmy the day onward? or his wife (a mice too) complaining about rats!?...True facts underly the story.
This is a true life account from a Holocaust survivor, a story that slides into your veins as you read it.
He takes Art through a step by step account of a life Vladek dreamed of turning into a nightmare, and how he and his wife survived until the point at which this book ended when they were sent to Auschwitz.
I can't recommend this graphic novel enough for anyone wanting to read not only an unflinching personal account of the Holocaust but also one of a father and son relationship that's so candid it sometimes hurt to read about it.
This is such an important and emotional story that brings a new dynamic to the well-documented World War 2 stories of the incarceration and mistreatment of the Jews, at the hands of the Nazi soldiers.
Seeing the former and present figure of his father and the alterations in his attitude towards life was saddening, but what shocked me more was Spiegelman's overwhelming honesty to the story.
Spiegelman breaks my preconceived conceptions with his raw and honest approach to every aspect of this brilliant work.I believe that this is an important story that everyone should read, but this would be of special benefit to a teenage age range.
What a truly shameful part of our history the Holocaust was.
Despite the fact that this was a graphic novel that had the characters portrayed as mice (Jews), pigs(Poles) and cats (Germans), it did not lessen the disgust I had against the Nazi system that condoned, encouraged and justified this mistreatment of Jewish people; Jews were given curfews, forced to wear armbands, forced to use ration coupons etc.
I was truly sickened by it all.
This graphic novel is biographical; Spiegelman's father recounted his personal experiences as a Polish Jew during WW2 to him.
Wow. This is a very powerful book--more so than anything else I've read in a long time. Absolutely amazing storytelling. I need a quick break before jumping into the next volume, because it's just so dark. But I definitely recommend this to everyone, even if you don't normally read comics or graphic novels.
This second reading really drove home for me the loss of his mother's narrative (she committed suicide years before Spiegelman wrote this book, and his father burned her war journals in a fit of depression one day).
Looking forward to finally reading the second part.
This really gives you an idea of what a roll of the dice surviving the Holocaust was, and the relationship between the father (the story's subject) and the son (the author) adds so many layers to what could be a basic war memoir.
Los diálogos eran sumamente rápidos de leer, la verdad me detenía mas en ver las ilustraciones que tenían mas feeling de lo que creí.
Ambas se manejan muy bien, y las interacciones se leen bastante realistas lo cual expone al padre del autor como no necesariamente un hombre ejemplar pero si alguien capaz de sobrevivir e intentar que la mayoría de su familia lo haga también.
Hay autores a los que les sale muy bien ese tipo de escritura pero creo que en esta historia necesitábamos la mayor emoción y se medio perdía a veces por eso.
2.5 starsI guess i'm just really not in the mood for serious topic-ed books this summer.
A lot of it bored me, strangely, and I don't know if it's because I wasn't in the mood for it, or because the writing just wasn't great.
cat metaphor didn't really speak to me like I was anticipating it would, either.
Half of the time, you couldn't even tell who was cat and who was mouse because the art is so simple.
This is a powerful story.
It doesn't seem like these horrors could be possible and yet they are.
I can only hope that this history remains a reminder of why compassion toward all people is so very important.
When we lose our compassion, we lose our humanity.
It is also a reminder of the darkness people are capable of and the strength of the human spirit.
This is not a fun story or a comforting story; it is a tough story about survival and after you do survive, what is life like then.
I'm glad I read this story.
(The four-page "Prisoner on the Hell Planet: A Case History," an earlier comic strip about the suicide that Spiegelman had published years before writing "Maus," and included here as part of the story, is particularly painful to read.)No one comes out of this book unscathed: Art, even as he uses his father's Holocaust memories as the basis for his book, is impatient with the aging Vladek and castigates him for his mistakes.
There has always been a debate about the impact and importance of cartoons and comic books.
The debate pretty much boils down to the misconception that comic books simply tell adventure stories.
The misconception does not take into account a graphic novel such as Maus.A great deal has already been said about how important and ground breaking this book is, the importance of the story, the beauty in its retelling, and its unflinching non-judgemental style.
The book is multi-layered and tells the story not only of surving the Holocaust but surviving the life afterwards.
Spiegelman does the most fantastic job showing us his parent's story in a truthful way.
My third day on the job here was the first time I saw a numbered Holocaust tattoo on an arm in real life and it really, really hurt to see it.
They are not.Spiegelman does a fantastic job of showing, in the frame of conversations with his irritating father, what really happened.
His parents were able to avoid a camp for a few years and I think most Holocaust fiction avoids this story.
They thought this book was a very depressing and a look at the Holocaust like we've never seen.
The type of readers that might enjoy this book would of most likely be people who are interested in history and people who aren't faint of heart.
Though, if you think yourself faint of heart but still want to read this book, you can, but I warn you, it is very depressing at some moments and sad at all times during World War 2.
Many people have said they have felt depress and sad after reading a bit of this book, so that's one warning.
It's a powerful piece, and tells the story of one family's experiences of the Holocaust in grim and gripping detail.
The book is not the history of the Polish people during the occupation, fair enough, but Spiegleman draws on stereotypes and shows a great deal of ignorance of events in Poland, Belarus and Ukraine during the years of the Nazi occupation.
He seems to prefer the Nazis to the Poles.
The Nazis are evil but elegant, the Poles are just brute animals.
Powerful?
Yes. Racist?
Yes.
An incredible book. It also feels quite timely, which is sad and scary.
For me as a reader everything that the artist described in this book were already familiar, but the way in which Art Spiegelman mixes his present day relations with his father and their arguments and then taking the reader back to the horrors that his father and family went through during the war felt so unique.
Glimpses of the author’s private life during the creation of this book and the impact of his mother’s suicide on the author are also brilliantly entwined with the story of ‘Vladek Spiegelman’ in ‘Maus’.
