https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3090406-the-courage-to-heal
This book is THE book for survivors that wish to continue survival, especially one of healing.If this massive read is a bit daunting, know that you will read bits here and there, and go back to it after long expanses of time.
It's also the perfect tool for anyone in therapy, as is the companion workbook.For anyone that is interested in this book for the purpose of supporting a survivor, the authors have written a book just for you: Allies in Healing: When the Person You Love Was Sexually Abused as a Child.
This book is notorious for having helped to launch the recovered memory therapy (RMT) craze, which played into the spate of alleged incidents of Satanic ritual abuse of the late '80s and early '90s.
Neither author has credentials or expertise relevant to psychology, therapy, or sexual abuse.
The book was not based on any solid experimental evidence or psychological studies.
Loftus and Carol Tavris have refuted the notion of repressed memories.
(Though memories may be recovered, there is no special mechanism that keeps them repressed or any way of determining their validity without corroborating evidence.) RMT is currently considered patent quackery in the psychological disciplines.
There's a mix of level-headed, genuine concerns, alongside some overly hostile 90s reviews that, IMO, don't actually focus on the problems of the book, but instead lash out at the changes that our culture was going through in the 90s due to women finally taking a stand for themselves and admitting openly to having been abused.
There were men at the time who could not cope with the loss of authority in the arena of psychology, and let that marr any legitimate points they might have made about the book's content and the fact that the authors were not actually qualified therapists themselves.
Absolutely, completely indispensable to victims and survivors. This really has become the 'bible' and the 'life force' for so many and there's a lot of reasoning behind it. I've re-read this book countless times (probably upwards of ten?) and I continue to do so sporadically. This book helped save my life and the life of many others. I'm so glad that I found it when I did. I recommend it to so many during my volunteer work and they all just can't stop thanking me for introducing them to it.
This was the first book in my healing process and I read it twice in therapy and again afterwards!
Reading the comments of all but the one or two other low rankers gives the exact reason why minus stars are warranted, why this is a dangerous book.
If you suffered real abuse, there must be better stuff than that.
There is too much wrong with the book to go into it all.
Even if half of the abuse they see everywhere was suffered by you and all, how to go about healing the hurt, according to that book, is entirely contrary to every single thing I've learned in my long life.I'll create a special shelf for this: books belonging into a bin and nowhere else.
This book is an incredible resource for survivors of sexual violence.
While it's intened audience is women survivors of childhood sexual abuse, I believe that any survivor of sexual violence could benefit from reading it.
Its saved me on more than one occation durring particular rough patches.
I can't explain how helpful this book is.
I've never read it straight through- it's more of a reference.
My favorite part in the book is titled, "Don't kill yourself." Nearly every survivor ponders suicide as an option.
It lays out several reasons why you should not kill yourself and steps to make that happen.
I read this book almost 25 years ago and it transformed my life!!!! The painful process of reading and digesting it took a process of almost 6 months to a year and was an incredible journey!!! Finally, there were women who could help unlock the rage and anger from what had happened...had been forced upon me at age 7!! The swirling whirlpool of my existence which forever kept me from breaking free to healing and health was finally cracked and I could escape intact. Mind you, I was in my late 40s at the time.
A passionate book which helped me a great deal as well as my husband to know what I/we were facing in terms of the road ahead in my trauma recovery.There are well laid-out details on the stages of recovery, what to expect for both the survivor and the family members, stories for the survivor to relate to, and also identified things I could look for which would be counterproductive to healing.I was relieved to see clear, direct language on how to assess and get support on recovered memories.
This gives guidance on how to get support in assessing them, it doesn't engage in the controversy of whether they are true or not.
Ultimately, this is up to the individual to sort out and to find the support they need to do so.
Great tool for survivors of childhood sexual abuse. Not to be taken lightly - this book will open doors for healing - but can also bring on unexpected emotions. Use in conjunction with professional counseling recommended.
This is a book I've read a few times through my healing journey, and each time it has been profoundly helpful.
At first read, it was difficult as I was conflicted about my experience.
The periodic denial contrasted with periods of serious anger, and this book walked me through it all.
Now, I'm beyond that for the most part, but dealing with lingering self-esteem issues (to put it lightly), I'm finding it indispensable again.
This book is not out to convince anyone that anything happened to them, but instead is good at meeting us right where we are, wherever that is, on the rocky road of recovery.
Definitely the bible to all bibles when it comes to childhood sexual abuse! Many work pages to work on, think about and understand so much more. This is a fabulous book, I highly recommend it to anyone who has been through a similar situation but prepare to brace yourself because the work isn't an easy process, but it's so worth it!
It's worlth it's weight. Make sure you do not attempt this book alone, it will turn your life inside out, upside down before it gets better.
This was a difficult read and the start of a difficult journey, but I’m so grateful for this book.
This book was a very in-depth look at childhood sexual abuse in women and the different types of coping, reactions, problems that come up later in life, etc. There were a lot of first-hand accounts, including poems. There was also a section on partners of the abused. I found the information easy to read and thorough.
This book helped me understand what was happening to me as I experienced unknown symptoms of sexual abuse. I also learned the steps to the healing process and did the writing exercises in the book. This helped me to cope and to make it as long as I did without having to go into the hospital. It made me feel normal when every thing around me felt abnormal.
This book has some very "hard to read" chapters. If you are ready to heal after surviving sexual abuse, I STRONGLY recommend this book to you. You will leave this book as a brand new you and some strong courageous "power-like" emotions and feelings to heal yourself, conquer the world and move forward. This book was an amazing part of my life at a very hard time.
Great reference book and encouragement for those of us who have been through hell and back. There is truly hope for the abused. Keep your chin up. A MUST read for all...there are victums out there everywhere. Ths information is invaluable!
for anyone who is a sexual abuse survivor i recommend this book and the workbook. I suggest you do this work with someone because it can bring up many painful memories,flashback or nightmares. I read this book and workbook with my therapist and it truly set me free from my past.
This is not a casual read book, which is probably pretty obvious from the title. It made me cry, think, and deal with a lot of painful memories I had as a child. This book is unbelievable. My therapist recommended this when I was going through my divorce. I learned a lot.
Read it years ago and wanted to add to my list. A wonderful guide for those in need of healing and those who love and support a survivor. Full of first person stories and creative exercises. Ellen Bass is an effective creative writing teacher for all--whether a survivor or not.
The bible of incest and sexual abuse healing. If anyone truly wants to heal, you gotta read this book.
I always thought this would be a little too woo-woo for me but it turns out to be a crazy helpful book for anyone recovering from child sexual abuse. Pretty impressive in its scope and power.
I enjoyed this one more as a book on tape. Very helpful to any survivor of abuse. Definately a must read for those in recovery or professionals that work in the field of trauma and recovery.
A very good book and relevant to the subject. Has insights to the problems that childhood abuse has caused which you may not be aware of. Highly recommend if the subject is of interest.
Excellent source both on a personal and professional level. Highly recommend to anyone who works with or has been a victim of childhood sexual abuse.
Recommended by Lynn for patients. Patients should be working with a therapist while working through this book. It has an associated workbook as well.
yes, agreed-this book is the bhagavad gita for survivors, and i think much of it can even be applicable to those outside the range of women-identified folks.this book is deep- it says things simply, concisely, and is affirming that this work can take a long time and reminds people they should be patient with their process.
for harm reduction at its best) i have been writing down, almost word for word, things along the way that i'd like to share with the folks i work with.i loved the mixture of narrative, story, poetry, journaling, and some of the exercises at the end of each chapter...
There is a lot of controversy about this book.
Putting that aside, and the somewhat outdated view on such issues as sex workers and BDSM, there is also a lot of amazing things about it.It is a hard read if you have experience with this subject and, while, personally, I would have liked a little more focus on the teenage years, it does have a tendency to overwhelm.However, it has the capability of being a life changing book and certainly helps survivors not feel alone on subjects that you may have previously thought that you were unique in feeling.
I am normal!" thoughts.
Can be very healing for clients who are survivors of sexual abuse, however sometimes the graphic nature of the content is traumatizing to clients. So, I am very cautious when recommending this as reading to clients and always teach relaxation skills before recommending it.
