https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/63471.Emil_und_die_drei_Zwillinge
But with Emil, can adventure be far behind?I didn’t expect Emil and the Three Twins to live up to the glory of its predecessor, and it certainly didn’t.
The eponymous three twins — actually, a remarkable acrobat act consisting of a father and his two sons called the Byrons — do not even appear until literally halfway through the book, and not much happens until they do.
With the appearance of the Byrons (fraternal twins Jackie and Mackie and their father), the detectives engineer yet another daring rescue.
Expecting this novel to be another masterpiece like Emil and the Detectives would be unfair, and I really enjoyed Emil and the Three Twins — once it got going.
"Emil und die drei Zwillinge" fällt unter die Kategorie der Bücher, von denen es heutzutage ja Massen gibt, die wahrscheinlich nur geschrieben wurden, um den Erfolg eines ersten Bandes noch weiter auszukosten.
Wo der erste Teil der Reihe noch durchweg spannend war, ist dieser Roman nur zäh.
Natürlich war ich wieder von den Freundschaften der Jungs begeistert und auch die Großmutter ist wieder der Knaller.
Aber die ganze Sache mit den Akrobaten war so absurd (zumindest aus heutiger Sicht), dass ich mir ein bisschen veräppelt vorkam.
I read Emil and the Detectives for the first time around 20 years ago, and somehow I like it. So when I found its sequel at a local bookstore, Emil and the Three Twins, I bought it without a second thought. It turns out, I tend to dislike this book. It was not fun, too dragging, and fell flat, especially if one has to compare it with its prequel. Unless if you really have some spare time to spend, better give this book a pass.
What I learned from this book:More on time than on time, doesn't exist. A half hour too early is just as tardy as a half hour too late.
Oje... Kästner, du Feuertüte, was ist denn da passiert?
Musste mal ne Bildungslücke beseitigen! War erfolgreich
A shade under the original Emil and mostly reads like a reunion of Emil and the Detectives. Yet I enjoyed it for its simple storyline, metafictional references to its own fictionality and of course Emil. Read because it's Emil.
Some sweet bits in this book towards the end.
I didn't read this when I was a kid, and this is a translated version, so that affects the way ypu read this books.
On the flip side, its hardly credible that two boys would be able to confront a grown man in th way they do, and the whole 'mystery' seems a little idyllic.
The boys' escapades are fun, and so is the character of the grandmother, Pony and the Professor's father.What I thought was really funny was the introduction to the book where the author stumbles upon the shooting of the movie version of the book without realizing what it was.
শলিপস - আমার মনে হয় এমন একটা নাম পেলেই অনেকেই খুশিতে আটখানা হয়ে যাবে।ফিলিপ অকস - নামটা শুনে সবাই হাসাহাসি শুরু করে দেয়।আমি কিছু বুঝিনি :( (সব দোষ বশীর বারহানের)শাহরিয়ার কবিরের মধযে কি কোনভাবে উনার একটু পরভাব আছে? আমার কেন জানি মনে হল!
শ্লিপস - আমার মনে হয় এমন একটা নাম পেলেই অনেকেই খুশিতে আটখানা হয়ে যাবে।ফিলিপ অক্স - নামটা শুনে সবাই হাসাহাসি শুরু করে দেয়।আমি কিছু বুঝিনি :( (সব দোষ বশীর বারহানের)শাহরিয়ার কবিরের মধ্যে কি কোনভাবে উনার একটু প্রভাব আছে? আমার কেন জানি মনে হল!
Ich bin heute im Schrank meines Schwiegervaters über dieses Buch gestolpert, als ich auf der Suche nach etwas zu lesen war. Und siehe da: Durchgelesen fast am Stück, aber alles heute gelesen ;-)
Nu la fel de bună ca „Emil și detectivii” - își cam târâie picioarele ca poveste, nu ajunge prea departe ș n-are spontaneitatea și naturalețea primului volum. E, asta e.
Had some charming moments but did not quite live up to its predecessor.
Very entertaining but not that great as the previous one which I admired. Great read for the kids, though. Very realistic and down to earth which they admire apperantly.
Was not quite as good as the first book, but still very good.
Not as fine as its precursor, but delightful nevertheless.
Enjoyed it so much more now than when I was younger. Strange. It's a really fabulous and fun story, and there are some great lines in it - though, of course, I can't remember a single one now. :(
Leider ein typisches Fortsetzungsbuch. Ich finde fast alles von Kästner toll, aber dieses hier ist wirr, zäh und für jugendliche Leser komplett undurchdringlich.
labākajā gadījumā to varētu nosaukt par vārgu "Emīla un Berlīnes zēnu" atblāzmu.
A childrens must read! And I still like to read it =)
