https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11970747-the-hedge-knight
This short story is so refreshing after the marathon that is ASOIAF.
When I read this the first time, I had just finished up the first 5 books in a row.
In The Hedge Knight, we meet Dunk and Egg and go on a journey with them to a tourney.
While the original books are absolutely amazing, they can be quite overwhelming at times.
I loved getting to meet a full family of Targaryens and experience Westeros while it wasn't in the middle of war.
If you have finished the ASOIAF series, this short story is a must-read!
I have to say that comic books, which are sometimes called graphic novels now, have become more sophisticated. Writers like Moore, Gaiman and Miller, among others, have brought complex and dark realism.  THE HEDGE KNIGHT is more of a medieval knight's tale with a great deal of enriched history to a fantasy world of great complexity. In this tale, a knight with no lord to follow joins a tourney in the hopes of securing fame and fortune (i.e. winners in medieval tourneys sometimes got to keep the
I have to say that comic books, which are sometimes called graphic novels now, have become more sophisticated.
THE HEDGE KNIGHT is more of a medieval knight's tale with a great deal of enriched history to a fantasy world of great complexity.
In this tale, a knight with no lord to follow joins a tourney in the hopes of securing fame and fortune (i.e. winners in medieval tourneys sometimes got to keep the armor and horses of opponents which would be the value of a house today).
The hedge knight must then find 6 others to fight in his name when he has absolutely no reputation.
A very interesting prelude to the Song of Ice & Fire series. I really liked the characters & it was interesting seeing the ancestors of other characters I've come to know so well.
I never knew how much I needed this until now!!! I have missed westeros so much and this was such a great way to see it from a different perspective and time! Dunk and Egg are the duo we deserve, I love them and their dynamic so much! This story felt so meaningful and I truly adored it, looking forward to seeing what these two get up to!!
With that being said, I loved this short story.My initial fear when I first heard of this story was that neither Dunk nor Egg, the two protagonists, would have anything to do with the main story in ASOIAF.
A lot of Daenery's great relatives make appearances and both the protagonists are actually some pretty important characters in the fictional history of this world.
So that had me all smiles throughout my read.It started off, and it felt very predictable, though still enjoyable, though in classic Martin fashion, he kind of flips everything on it's head and takes it all in a different, and way better direction than my simple mind could have imagined.
Having read all of Martin's Song of Fire and Ice significantly faster than he's writing new ones, and considering he doesn't seem to be making much progress with the next one: four years between the last book and the next, I was at a bit of a loose end for my Westeros fix. Luckily Martin has already published a trio of prequel short stories. Prequel is stretching the definition as this first one is set approximately 100 years before the events of  A Game of Thrones  but the families and names fr
Having read all of Martin's Song of Fire and Ice significantly faster than he's writing new ones, and considering he doesn't seem to be making much progress with the next one: four years between the last book and the next, I was at a bit of a loose end for my Westeros fix.
As an otherwise unproven knight, he wants to make his fortune so he enters the tourney lists.
Egg is the young lad who tags along after him, just wanting to be his squire.
Welcome one and all to The Hedge Knight book one of the remarkable prequel series to A Song of Ice and Fire.
The Hedge Knight focuses on Dunk a young man whose master, friend, and mentor Ser Arlan of Pennytree has recently died.
Dunk finds himself at a crossroads wondering if he should become a hedge knight like Ser Arlan or join a city watch for a simpler more stable life and future.
Dunk decides to be a hedge knight.
Dunk is a hard man not to like and his adventure starts with a bang.
In the medieval setting of Westeros -about a century before Ice and Fire- Dunk, the hedge knight, aspires to be acknowledged as equal to other knights of the realm.
He takes part in a tournament where renowned knights of the Seven Kingdoms, the Kingsguard and royalty (we get to see Targaryens at play) compete as well.Amidst the jousting and the acts of bravery on the field, a minor quarrel escalates to a sentence of death, which finds the hedge knight in its center.
The trial of the seven is the way things will be resolved, with unexpected results for everyone.
Being such a fan myself, The Hedge Knight was a must read.The Tales of Dunk and Egg take place around one hundred years prior to the complicated story known as A Song of Ice and Fire.
Despite being a short story, The Hedge Knight is a typical George R.
R. Martin trademarks – fans know what I’m talking about – and all are here in some way.
Not all things are not as explicit as they are in A Song of Ice and Fire, but all the usual elements are simmering away in this little tale.
A very nice piece of art about Chivalry, Nobility, Courage, Prowess and Passion .
The accidents taking place here are about 100 years before what we read in (A Song of Ice and Fire).
I really liked it and did love the spirit it was written with as it goes in complete harmony with the other books and with (The World of Ice and Fire).This story is about how Dunk (Ser Duncan the Tall) met Egg (Aegon V afterwards) the Son of Maekar I and the Brother of Maester Aemon :).
I really love ASOFAI so this biased review should be taken with a pillar of salt.Loved it. More knights of Westeros and a jousting tourney made for a great read. This is the first of three novellas about Aegon Targaryen aka Egg and his squiring for Ser Duncan a hedge knight.Fun read and an absolute must for fans of the series. Not sure why I waited so long.
Aha... If this was meant to prove something; it would *certainly* be that I'm doomed to sink deeper and deeper into the world of A Song of Ice and Fire. This short novella carries everything I loved in the series. Starting with the romanticism and the silky-smooth narrative, then the complex characters, great plot and the serenity that hovers when you finish up a great story.
Now I get the appeal Sansa Stark feels when reading of tales from chivalrous Knights and their brave deeds, even the brutal battle scenes seems magical and romantic.
Dunk is the underdog, newly made Knight in search honest work and at least one victory in a tourney.
Overall it was Dunk from Fleabottom's innocence and strong belief in what a Knight should be that won him the friendship and admiration of the High Born and a very special squire.Love this tale!!
I miss reading his books, so this is a great find. All the old favorite house names brought to life again, House Targaryen, House Baratheon and many more. Lots of action, a great little story. On to the next one in the Tales of Dunk and Egg :)
The Hedge Knight (The Tales of Dunk and Egg #1) First story in the Dunk and Egg's series, where we meet the two main characters. In this short novella we got a bit of everything that makes Martin's books so good, including a small portion of epicness.
The story of Ser Duncan the Tall and his squire, Egg, brother to maester Aemon Targaryen. Amazing set of events in the world of "a Song of Ice and Fire".
I've missed reading anything about Westeros so much!  I read A Dance with Dragons in June. Haven't seen anything on Game of Thrones since then except for reading threads on westeros.org This was a super cool introduction to Westeros, again. There are some problems but they are always welcome.This was only about Jousting, Knighthood, and swordplay. Couldn't they write anything about more cool stuff like Children of Forest, Valyria Before the Doom, or Asshai? Anyway I liked it and I will keep rea
I've missed reading anything about Westeros so much! 
I read A Dance with Dragons in June. Haven't seen anything on Game of Thrones since then except for reading threads on westeros.org This was a super cool introduction to Westeros, again. There are some problems but they are always welcome.This was only about Jousting, Knighthood, and swordplay. Couldn't they write anything about more cool stuff like Children of Forest, Valyria Before the Doom, or Asshai? Anyway I liked it and I will keep reading all three novellas.
I listened to the audiobook version of The Hedge Knight, and it's worth mentioning that the narrator did a really good job.The first half was somewhat slow, though it was just the build up for the rest of the story.
After the first half the storyline gears up until the very end with lots of intrigues.
All in all I can say that I enjoyed reading this short story, and I plan on reading the other dunk and egg's adventures.What I'd probably remember from the book is the following quote - "Dunk the lunk, thick as a castle wall" :) 4/5
A fun little novella to sit beside the mammoth books of the franchise. Non-essential, but worth reading for a dip into Westeros.
Dunk, of course, comes face to face with both kinds in this story which is perfectly tooled to be readable as a short in its own right - demanding no knowledge of A Song of Ice and Fire nor spoiling it in any way - and also reflecting on ideas and themes and histories that are set up in the greater, more serious (and depressing) work.This will never garner the same acclaim or following of Martin's mammoth multi-part epic, but in its own way it deserves to be read equally and should be considered required reading for any ASOIAF fan.
It's cute too and if you're not a Dunk fan by the end of it then your soul is probably as black as Tywin Lannister's.
See the Star Wars prequels for example, where knowing how all the characters are going to end up saps all the tension and drama from the work.
What happens then is a filling out of character, and a continuation of the world building that takes place in the Song of Ice and Fire series.
And since it's such an impossibly large and rich world, and because Martin is so good at telling the stories of so many different sorts of characters, The Hedge Knight functions not only as an auxiliary volume or simply fan service, but a rich and rewarding work in its own right.
Want to satisfy your A Game of Thrones craving? Here is your next book. A graphic novel set a hundred years before Ned Stark and company, it tells the tale of a Hedge Knight. I like if for too many reasons, but in short Mike S. Miller and co.'s artwork is phenomenal. Second of all, this is the first George RR tale in awhile told from the bottom - ie not a nobleman, but a knight risen from Flea Bottom. Five stars!
Well, I've finally read some Martin, at Scott Andrews' insistence.* It was a very good story, despite the horse abuse. Complex characters, a slow build, some good surprises along the way, and a resonant ending. I'm not going to run out and read the ASOIAF series, but maybe I'll consider Armageddon Rag. *I've read some early Wildcards stuff too...
No pensé que llegara a gustarme tanto algo tan cortito. Me gustó mucho leer sobre Targaryen vivos, en sus mejores momentos como reyes de Poniente. A veces odiaba a Dunk, pero terminé queriéndolo un poquito. Cada día te quiero/odio más Martin. 5 de 5.
The Hedge Knight (The Tales of Dunk and Egg #1), George R.R. Martinشوالیه پرچین خواب
Ό,τι πρέπει για τους φανατικούς αναγνώστες του Martin που θα γνωρίσουν από την αρχή έναν αγαπημένο τόπο τους, ανακαλύπτοντας και κάποιες μικρές αλήθειες που ίσως αγνοούσαν.
In such time when Westeros was all about kings and princes, about castles and towns, about tourneys and festivals and about myths and memorirs of dragons, 89 years prior to the events of 'A Game of Thrones', A young knight called Dunk starts his life's journey with a mysterious balled headed boy named Egg.In this one linear story, we see Dunk, or to say Ser Duncan the Tall and his squire Egg who's actually Prince Aegon Targaryen, participates in a great Tourney at Ashford, to prove their ability to the world.
It is the first in a series of novellas that follow the adventures of Ser Duncan the Tall (Dunk) and his squire Egg (short for Aegon) as they roam across Westeros looking for places and people to serve.
There isn't as much roaming in this one, of course, because it's the first in the series and is mostly concerned with beginnings: how Dunk came to be a knight, how he met Egg, and the story of his first tournament (events all tied up with one another).Dunk is seventeen when we meet him, and almost seven feet tall.
We have governments and heads of state, the Game of Thrones world has kings, lords, and councils.
In the Game of Thrones series, a war is under foot and knights' oaths have taken back stage to their war duties, save a band of outlaws.Hence the interest of this book, the Hedge Knight.
We don't have time to ponder the philosophical implications as the hedge knight scrambles to assemble a team of champions to defend against the opposing accusers who have decreed that he should be given trial by combat.The plot relies heavily on action, to the neglect of political intrigues and human persuasion we've come to expect from Game of Thrones.
I don't know what the world would become, what the characters would become or who is related to whom.
I read this as a standalone story and this is a standalone review.What I liked:Dunk and Egg!
Unexpected things happen and even when you think you know where things are going, well, it doesn't go exactly there but goes somewhere quite different.The descriptions are detailed and evoked a sense of the fantasy world of tourneys, jousts, lords, and knights.
In conclusion, this is a story I related to, a hero I cheered for, and side characters in whom I got invested.
