https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/413432.Red_Scarf_Girl
Terror seen through the eyes of a twelve year-old girl, this is a memoir of the Cultural Revolution as much as a truly harrowing horror story where relatives & friends betray each other for no reason. The zombification of the Chinese under Mao's rule is distinctively awful, a mindset and time that must never be repeated (but under Trump's potential presidency, possibly might*).*Oracle time!-- wow do I feel dumb now.
She knew I was looking for more general information rather than one person’s account, but she suggested it because there is not much literature out there about that period of China’s history.Here are some random thoughts:The book was very YA, which is not necessarily a bad thing, but it wasn’t quite what I was looking for.The intensity with which the people in Shanghai, where Jiang lived, jumped on the bandwagon of abolishing the “Four Olds” was terrifying.
Mao was so revered that, as a youth, the author questioned her parents rather than the establishment.
My daughter really connected with the author and could be heard roaming the house saying things like, "I'm so glad I live in America," and "I can keep a stamp collection without anyone trying to take it away from me." All along our journey through this book, I kept pointing out to my children the subtle things that were alienating neighbors and family from each other and how it resulted in less freedom.
All youth should learn how to recognize these techniques to keep our freedoms strong.
Many Americans, myself included, have an opinion about China, Communism, or most likely both.
Ji-Li Jiang's memoir was written for children, and because she is a teacher her book is very accessible for most elementary school-age kids.
Red Scarf Girl brings us with Ji-Li as she grows up in the height of China's cultural revolution, not long after the beginning of Communism in that country.
This book was touching, frightening, hopeful, and infuriating by turns, and I wouldn't hesitate to recommend it to anyone, especially in light of the upcoming Beijing Olympics.
Mao's Cultural Revolution was mayhem, from what I've gathered from the few books I've read.
It was an awful time of uncertainty and fear to have to live through.One thing this book shows is how a person who truly believed the goodness and leadership of Mao, was enthusiastic in all of Mao's initiatives and who tried so hard to be a good Red, slowly turned her way of thinking around because of how the Reds treated her and her family & friends.
Fanaticism doesn't draw people into the fold but turns them away.This is an interesting look at one families trials through a difficult time.
But she never thinks to question the policies themselves, or their source in Mao.The great irony in the policies is that the idea is to eliminate the "four olds." These are old, pre-revolutionary ways of thinking and behaving.
And what is more a sign of old thinking than the idea that a person is defined by his/her ancestry?The writing is a bit overly simple, as the book seems deliberately aimed at a YA audience.
Having said that, it was an interesting book to read, and I'm by no means sorry that I did.
This book is powerful for me because it happened to a girl my age who was born in China.
Chairman Mao had them all fooled, and I wonder when (not if) it will happen again.
This powerful story shows us life in China during the Cultural Revolution.
My book group read this and of course I reread this book every year with my 7th grade students, so I've read it multiple times.
She presented her project at our book group.
She has raised awareness and helped people here know about what happened in China.
If you don't know about the Cultural Revolution or Chairman Mao, read this book.
Everyone was so enamored and "brainwashed" by Mao's greatness that the Chinese began to change the way they thought, dressed, acted and were educated----and if they didn't, they were seen as Four Olds to be humiliated in front of family and friends by teen guards that had become revolutionized to do Mao's good work.
Her family went from a success story to being blamed for a grandfather being a landlord which was considered the worst, their furniture was taken, their clothes, their father and they were questioned as enemies.
Very informational. I have such a love and fascination for Chinese history, that I really enjoyed it. I kept thinking, wow, we are so close to this in the US! I hope I've prepared my children to stand up for their heritage!
This was a really sad book for me, the author who is just a few years older then me, had to go through this while I grew up obliviously on the other side of the world watching Star Trek on TV and going to summer camp. The 13 year old girl was sent to a farm commune and worked close to death.(view spoiler)[The best part is the uplifting ending and the author's determination to try to improve things for the country she still loves. (hide spoiler)]
La propia autora y protagonista explica en una sus conclusiones los muchos años que le costó advertir que una parte muy importante de lo acontecido en su China natal no se debió más que a una lucha de poderes dentro del Partido, lo cual no hace más que frustrarla por la creencia ciega que ella y millones de personas pusieron en Mao durante su larga dictadura (régimen antidemocrático que todavía hoy continúa).Recomiendo, en definitiva, la lectura de este libro y, sobre todo, a aquellos que quieran iniciarse en la literatura china.
At times it was hard to remember that this book is a memoir and the horrific acts I was reading about not only really happened, but they happened to a young girl.
When I started the book, I knew nothing about the Cultural Revolution in China, so I had no idea what to expect.
If I were to have the freedom to design a unit of study for my class, one in which I could choose any texts I wanted, I would love to use this book, Persepolis, and The Diary of Anne Frank to have students compare the experiences of the young women who lived through challenging times in history.
This book stated to drag on. Not to mention that I found two grammatical errors and I was like 13.
Heartbreak and destruction are constant, as homes are ransacked, the elderly are beaten in the streets, and children are coerced into denouncing their parents, all in the name of a poisonous left-wing ideology.The parallels to the political issues the modern world faces are undeniable and scary.
Readers watch on as poor Ji-li struggles to come to terms with her grandfather’s class status as a landlord, whom she never even met.
Though the language used is pretty plain, I remember reading this book as a kid and not really getting it.
This book is kind of like Salva's story, a civil war.
Although the cultural revolution wasn't a war, it certainly seemed like one, because of all the gruesome things that happened to the prisoners in China.
The title of this book, "Red Scarf Girl", represents two things; first, "red" is the color of communism (the cultural revolution).
Second, in China, the red scarf is worn by the students of local schools, which is telling us that the book is about how a "regular" girl is affected by the cultural revolution.
The hardships they endured, the manipulations that were used, and the ways in which people took advantage of others during this time is shockingly sad.
How Mao manipulated the people of China during this time period is widely known and accepted as a sad chapter in China's history, but this book also focuses on the smaller ways that individuals used the political atmosphere to promote themselves and to abuse others.
It was after Mao's death in 1976 that people woke up.
Our leader had taken advantage of our trust and loyalty to manipulate the whole country.
This is the most frightening lesson of the whole Cultural Revolution.
I gave Ji-li Jiang's memoir of her life, Red-Scarf Girl:A Memoir of the Cultural Revolution four stars (really liked it) because of the way her story was told.
Jiang lets readers in on her life, and allows them to experience how she changes from a girl that was proud to be a product of her country to a young woman who comes to question everything she believes.
I found her story to be tremendously sad, and I do not believe students younger than 7th grade would be able to grasp the emotional rollercoaster Jiang goes through as a result of the life-experiences she faces under Mao's regime.
A great memoir from a child's p.o.v. on living through the cultural revolution.
Everything I know about the Cultural Revolution I learned from books like this.
My lame Seymour High School education never even touched on Mao Ze-Dong, China, Asia, or any other culure aside from our young American culture and a small portion of Europe's, and only then when it had anything to do with our own.
My two children will definately not need to wait until they are young adults to learn about the world they live in, because I will expose them to books such as this, thank you Ji-li Jiang (all all the rest).
What I like about this book is that it keeps us very tightly confined to the story of pre-teen Ji-li. This does not try to explain the larger context of the Cultural Revolution; it does not try to make us understand what was happening in Beijing. And that makes her story all the more terrifying. Just as history is difficult to understand when we are caught in its tides, following Ji-li we only know that the world is changing in ways big and small, that the world is growing colder and more frightening. Truly, it's stranger than any dystopia.

In her book, I had read good and sad history.
This book could teaches me many things and remind me my older brothers and sister.
Ji-li was really strong girl and her life teaches me many things.
When her classmates and her teacher influenced her, because of her family background, she had to be patient and she had to respect them with tolerance.
The other sadness I read in this book was about her family.
In conclusion I recommended to read this book who didn’t read yet, because it is real history happens in a life and it can teach about life between family, classmates, and politics.
I think part of my feeling that the audio was slow was that Moore was narrating for a younger audience who need a little extra time to grasp the new concepts that the book brings to a Western audience.Even for adults, I’d recommend this memoir as a gateway to understanding the Cultural Revolution and seeing how the attempt to build a fairer society gets twisted into a dog-eat-dog power struggle once you apply dogma (pun not intended, but I’m quite pleased with it) to people’s lives.
التي إن كانت تخبر شيئاً فلا تخبر سوى القُدرة العالية التي تمتع بها الحزب الشيوعي في الصين ليقنع الملايين و الألوف المؤلفة : بأن ماو بكل بساطة ، إله ، لم يصرح لنفسه فقط أن يتخذ ذلك لنفسه لقباً لأنه لا يعتقد بالأديان و “ القديمات الأربع ”
I read it and wondered how could the Chinese people have allowed this and was there a way for them to have avoided it?
We must not allow political party identification to define us and who we like or hate.
Books like this remind me how dear I hold the freedoms I have and I resent any encroachments on them.
I resent any effort that smacks of cleansing the "other" view from society.
This book, like other memoirs that record the rise and fall of dictatorships, is valuable cautionary reading for anyone who values freedom.
My daughter is reading it for a history course she is taking this year called Key of Liberty.
I always pre-read any books my daughters are assigned as part of a course.
Jiang does an excellent job of showing you the horror of the Cultural Revolution from a child's eyes, but does it in a way that I do not mind my 12-year-old daughter reading this book.
One I seriously encourage for those that have never realized just how precious the freedoms we enjoy in America are and take them for granted.My two favorite quotes: "This is the most frightening lesson of the Cultural Revolution: Without a sound legal system, a small group or even a single person can take control of an entire country.
Prior to reading the book, I thought the Cultural Revolution referred to some clothing movement (sadly this is also a common misconception amongst Chinese youth).
Keep in mind that this really is a young adult novel and not as deep as most other books about individuals or families living through the Cultural Revolution.
She tells the story of how the Cultural Revolution unfolded and how it affected her own life.
When I read it, I thought it was a heart wrenching story of a girl's once promising life gradually reduced to a tragic state of living.
I feel that by having adults find books they think kids and teens would want to read and be able to relate to, is a complete waste of time.
This was one of six books that we read for class and by far this was the most tedious and poorly written.
I feel I would learn more about the Chinese Cultural Revolution, by reading a biography of Chairman Mao, not by reading an eight year olds memories of what her family went through.
I hope that there will be better books next year.
Read this with my students. It was so great to see their reactions as we were reading to a completely and utterly insane time period. As an adult, I wish it delved more deeply into the political turmoil happening in China with Chairman Mao. However, I appreciate the book's ability to stick to Ji-Li's personal account. I'd recommend this book to anyone who wants to see how a paranoid, narcissistic, and totalitarian leader stays in power...or just tune into American current events as they unfold.
The cover of this book did not draw me in, but it came with a great recommendation from a friend/our school librarian. I really enjoyed every page of it! I also learned so much about China under communist rule that I did not know anything about. It is a true story about the author's life in China from the ages of 12 to 14. I would highly recommend this book to any of my students. It was a quick, enjoyable, and informative read!
