https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6614960-house-rules
Painfully obvious and predictable and filled with so much repetitive exposition about Asperger's Syndrome that it ultimately made me feel like i was being lectured by someone who has it and would not take the hint that I understood them the first time and get the freaking point okay??? Very disappointing.
A good solid 3 1/2 starsI applaud Jodi Picoult for using her best-selling author position to educate people about Asperger's syndrome.
Picoult gives Jacob every possible symptom of Asperger's in its most extreme manifestation.
I complain a lot about present tense writing, but Picoult is one of the few who can do it so well that I barely even notice it.There's a lot of great humor in the book, much of it related to Jacob's Asperger behaviors.
I hope I've focused on the things Ms. Picoult did RIGHT, because this is a worthy book on a timely subject, and I really liked the characters.
Confession time: I had no intention of ever reading a Jodi Picoult book. To me, her books were pretty much equivalent to Nicholas Sparks' books.* Formula: Mix one part "issue" with one part "sap" and one part "luuuuuurve", then swallow. If nausea occurs, try Pepto to keep it down.   *Sparks' books are still ones that I have no intention of ever reading. I watched 'A Walk to Remember' and 'The Notebook'. That's enough for one lifetime. There's like 50 movies based on his books now or something, a
Confession time: I had no intention of ever reading a Jodi Picoult book.
There's like 50 movies based on his books now or something, and you know they're scraping the bottom of the barrel when Miley Cyrus is the best they can get to star act be filmed in one.
I’ve already spent my whole childhood dealing with autism; I don’t know if I can handle doing it for the rest of my life."
This is a superficially selfish thought, yes, but then I read the subtext to be that he's assuming he'd be around to take care of any kid of his who has autism.
While I enjoy Picoult's easy flow of writing and the creative way she informs the reader about issues and conditions like Asperger's syndrome, in this case, I found myself in constant "oh, come on" mode, as in:Spoiler alert - "Talk to your son, for crying out loud!
He's on trial for murder!"and"Talk to your brother!
"House Rules" bills itself as a murder mystery with an Asperger's twist, but Picoult brings nothing original to either the mystery genre or books featuring characters on the Autism spectrum. I would chalk it up to a mindless, predictable read best left for the times a reader is stuck in an airport, except it is so incredibly long that the reader will have the "mystery" solved and be left to slog through 400 more pages. Much too long for a reluctant reader and too boring and predictable for an intelligent one.
She has taken every possible symptom of both Asperger's and autism (which are two different diagnoses) and put them all into the character of Jacob.
What Picoult has done here is a disservice to the Asperger's community.From the mother: "Since there's no cure yet for Asperger's, we treat the symptoms ...".
Just from reading the positive reviews of this book I see the word "illness" being used over and over to describe Asperger's and that is because the book has left readers unfamiliar with AS with that impression.
If you want a realistic view of a young man with Asperger's I urge you to read the book "Marcelo in the Real World" by Francisco X.
That is why we will never be Picoult characters.Now, imagine yourself the defense attorney,and you have just heard at least three witnesses explain how Asperger children answer questions extremely literally (such as tossing a tent at you if you asked them to 'pitch a tent').
Do you think that you would ask your client a question like "Were you sorry you killed the girl?" No, because if the Aspergerian witness did not kill the girl, he would simply answer "No" since he hadn't killed her and therefore could not be sorry that he had done so.
Sigh.Remind me not to try Picoult again.
And, after so very many descriptions of Asperger's traits, including the fact that the main character, an 'Aspie' needs to be spoken to very directly and literally, how could Picoult string us along chapter after chapter after chapter as people in Jacob's life continually phrase questions in such a way that he is not forced to explain what happened??
Not to mention the fact that , as a person with Asperger's Jacob would have difficulty with turns of phrase, such as, 'get the picture' and 'what do you say?'.
And yet, Picoult continually tosses in phrases that seem to stray pretty far from the literal speech you would expect Jacob to use.
House Rules delivers everything Picoult fans have come to expect: controversy, multiple perspectives, a legal conflict, etc.
They struggle to convince the legal system that Jacob cannot stand trial like a normal individual.
I’m glad that Picoult didn’t over-exhaust the whole “vaccines caused my son to become like this” avenue, but that she detailed obscure but effective treatments.
By narrating from Jacob’s perspective, Picoult takes us into a mind that is completely logical, brutally honest, yet thoroughly lacking empathy.
The conclusion did not drop a disappointing bombshell like in My Sister’s Keeper or Handle With Care.
But, he pointed out, you don't have a brother.Then I will take care of you, I said.However, I didn't.Oliver will stand up in court today, and maybe the next day and the next, and try to accomplish what I have unsuccessfully tried to do for eighteen years now: make strangers understand what it is like to be my son.
Emma has no life of her own as every minute of every day is eaten up by the needs of her son, Jacob, who has Asperger's syndrome.
Brother, Theo, is essentially lost in the shuffle, always in the shadow of Jacob's needs, barely a blip on his mother's radar.
Many people criticize this book as being highly predictable.
The author explains the circumstances surrounding Jess' death long before the trial is over so I don't see how the reader is 'predicting' the end.
To me, the big question in this book is how does this young man with Asperger's Syndrome navigate his way through a legal system designed for non-autistic people and finally get through to those around him to keep himself out of prison, a fate that would surely destroy anyone with his condition.
As a mother of a child with autism, I was leery about reading this novel as it's probably every mother's worst nightmare to learn their 'normal' child committed a crime, but for those of us with children who cannot speak for themselves let alone defend their actions it is truly something I fear for him in the future.
She clearly did her research learning about Asbergers, PDD-NOS and autism.
I really applaud Jodi for doing her research and writing a fantastic novel.
I was so fearful of reading it - but oh so glad that I did.
The topic of Asperger's covered in this book is handled with precision and care. You can't help feeling sorry for the entire family. They really gave up having a normal life for their son and brother. I did like the concept but did not feel the ending justified the many pages or thoughts put into this novel. The writing just seemed to stop and not give the reader much to think about. That being said, it was a very worthwhile read.
There were a few potential outcomes that would have been intriguing to read about.
I had to flop the pages at the end thinking some were missing.
Heck, I was close to shaking the book for more pages to appear.
Not a very satisfying ending because it did not feel finished.
The themes of Asperger's were covered in this book along with forensic science, and they were interesting reading material but this one was a bit predictable and not as enthralling as some of Picoult's other books.
I still enjoyed my reading experience though.
My quick and simply overall: interesting book but predictable.
I have read the book cover to cover, but still I don’t know how the story ends!
One of the main characters in the book, Jacob (whose mother Emma keeps calling him “Baby” even though he is 18 years old, which I found to be very annoying), has Asperger’s Syndrome, and has a penchant for “always telling the truth”…but when push comes to shove and it really counts, he only tells parts of the truth, which is then left open to (mistaken) interpretation by people who should know better, for example, his mother and his therapist.
Of course, had they asked Jacob that question, there would have been no credible premise for a book, which come to think of it, may have been preferable.
I’ve praised Picoult books to the moon and back.
That’s when we get answers, that’s when things start twisting and turning.
In other words: Picoult books are usually quite slow, because you see things from many characters’s different perspectives.
This is done to make you believe one thing at one point, and then have your world turned upside down when something else is revealed.
But at the trial, that’s when things get really interesting, even though I predicted the main twist quite early on in the book.Which is why I was really frustrated with the ending.
Though overall, it’s a pretty damn solid book.
It starts really well; for the first third of the book it jogs along at a brisk pace and I didn't get bored once.
Picoult starts repeating expositionary information that we'd already covered earlier in the book, mainly on the nature of Asperger's, and then repeats it again.
We hardly get any information about the results of said twist and the consequences for certain characters are barely touched upon.It's a shame, because there's so much that's good in this book I feel a bit like I'm drop-kicking a kitten, but the flaws are too big to ignore.
Neseniai skaičiau vieną jos interviu, kuriame ji kaip tik ir pasakojo apie savo darbą.
Vieniša mama Ema augina du sūnus - 18-metį Džeikobą ir 15-metį Teo. Džeikobas turi Aspergerio sindromą, tad šeimos kasdienybė kardinaliai skiriasi nuo įprastos.
Džeikobas reikalauja viso Emos dėmesio, jam leidžiama daugiau nei Teo, tad jaunesnysis sūnus giliai širdyje jaučia nuoskaudą, o mokykloje šiokį tokį pažeminimą, kuomet yra vadinamas "kvailio broliu".
Internete net papildomai ieškojau informacijos apie Aspergerio sindromą, nors ir pati knyga tikrai informatyvi.
Taip, gali spėlioti kas ten nutiko į visas puses, bet net aiškių nuorodų pabaigos nėra.
I think I need to stop reading Picoult.
As I was telling someone a few weeks ago, Picoult's books are fairly formulaic: mama bear fiercely protects child (who generally has some disability or serious problem) from the world; optional so-called "normal" sibling is angry and neglected but understanding.
Enter optional love interest for mother, which muddles things.
Now that I've read all of them, I know that this is her schtick, and this book fits right in with the rest.
I'd love to read Picoult's take on other kinds of situations (non-parenting, friendships, other kinds of relationships) but I'm tired of the mothering books.
I have read a great many Picoult books and I must say that so far, this one, is my least favourite of all.
In fairness Picoult has clearly researched Asperger's syndrome and goes to great lengths to ensure the reader also understands the symptoms and nuances of this type of autism and the impact it would have on a family, the community and society at large.
I found the plot to be unrealistic and largely predictable.
Had the story surrounding Jacob's Asperger's been more plausible and the plot more suspense filled, it would surely have served to further elevate the reader's ultimate understanding and acceptance of the subject matter.
I swore I'd never read another Picoult books - they are so written to template, and the endings tend to be cop-outs.
My excuse is that I have Asperger's and I'm always interested to see how other people overcome the social problems.
So far though, the book hasn't hooked me, its reading like a lecture on a kid with low-functioning Asperger's, a Rain-Man obsessive and brilliant character who can just about live in the world.
It doesn't read like the majority of people you work with, but do not lunch with, those of us who can't read you.
I bloody hate books with disappointing endings.
House Rules is the story of teenager Jacob Hunt, who suffers from Asperger's syndrome.
This only makes Jacob seem more guilty and his family struggles to keep themselves afloat in the desperate situation they find themselves in.I loved this book!
I loved the story and the characters - the characters were each exciting and easy to relate to in their own way.I also love the way Picoult writes.
The way she intertwined the scandalous murder with Jacob's Asperger's syndrome shows that she can juggle multiple plot lines together.
Considering I just a) finally read a book by the famous Jodie Picoult, b) read an adult book when I'm like a 99% YA reader, and c) enjoyed it, and d) it was freakishly huge but I survived...I THINK I GET A SOME SORT OF REWARD.
Don't let my Peter Pan soul hear that.The thing I liked most about this book were the characters.
(Like Jacob has a thing about recreating crime scenes, it's his hobby, and she totally lets him do this WHILE he's in the middle of a murder investigation.
I also feel like the book was exceptionally well researched.
And he's usually right.But when Jacob's small hometown is rocked by a terrible murder, law enforcement comes to him.
Jacob's behaviors are hallmark Asperger's, but they look a lot like guilt to the local police.
Did Jacob commit murder?Jodi Picoult knows how to rip your heart out and wanting more.
She writes about different people and storylines, you can't tell its her because she is a broad writer.I have a niece who is mentally challenged so this book touched me on a personal level.
I also like that it was a mystery and a mystery that was a challenge to figure out!
I don't usually like to admit this but I can almost NEVER solve the mystery or crime in a book before the end.
If a greater awareness of Asperger's and individuals on the PDD spectrum is bolstered by this book, I think that would be great.
(Of course I don't even know if she has siblings or not!) At any rate, her stories have gotten to be ridiculously formulaic as can be the case with many best selling authors.
So much lead-up to a giant fizzle at the end.
It's like everything that could be evident in someone with Autism had to make the cut - this woman has no edit feature.Add to this a terribly predictable ending (except no one drops dead for no apparent reason, which is a big step up from Handle With Care), typical changed POV first person narration, a sibling who feels ignored/neglected because of their sibling's special needs and parents who obsess over their children while, really, not being very good parents.
She seemed to believe that Franzen was lauded for being a male writing about families, while she was virtually ignored by major book reviews, such as The New York Times, because she was female.
Her books were branded as "women's fiction" because she was a woman writing about families, while Franzen's novels were considered high literary fiction because he was a man.
"É parte de sua rotina, o que significa que raramente nos desviamos disso. Qualquer novidade precisa ser introduzida com antecedência e ter uma preparação, seja uma consulta ao dentista, ou uma viagem de férias, ou um aluno novo transferido para sua classe de matemática no meio do ano". (pág. 14)Para os autistas, a rotina é uma segurança.
A minha opinião em vídeo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lx1WO...Mais uma grande história da Jodi Picoult que me deixou viciada e intrigada desde a primeira página.O assunto relativamente a síndrome de Asperger está muito bem documentada e a construção de personagens está muito boa.Adorei!
Picoult writes books that do indeed draw the reader in right from chapter one.
It tells the story of a family torn apart by a young man who cannot help but behave the way he does.
I don't mean that the book is written in such a way as to leave the reader wondering what possibilities might occur, I am talking about secondary characters and secondary storylines that just need better conclusions.
I wonder if Picoult thought her conclusion was enough to heal a lifetime of injustices, but I don't think it was, I wanted more understanding and more repentance.On a more political note, and commenting as an open minded parent.
