https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1288848.The_Green_Hat
Dick would've been so scared of Iris Storm and her reputation for having done something so outrageous between the sheets that her husband threw himself out of the window on their wedding night.
The shop-keepers are very polite, and courteously do not mind how many you buy.
Americans buy.
Englishmen watch Americans buying.
A few Frenchmen are stationed at those strategic points where they can best be rude to the English and Americans.
Then the English and Americans tip them.
Sometimes called "the iconic novel of the 1920s", the books is written in a style that keeps the reader fascinated with the language of the author.
Although Arlen wasn't a native English speaker, his use of words and his ability to string them together and produce imagery is excellent.The plot line moves along, and although foreshadowing led me to hypothesize the conclusion and how the characters might end up I still enjoyed reading through to the very end.
Still, a very enjoyable novel indeed.I'd recommend this novel to lovers of 1920s culture in Britain, readers who enjoy reading beautiful language, and others who just like a good read.
Who is Iris Storm?
Is she Is she a tramp?
A hussy?
Why do people around her keep dying?
Is she fated to have a miserable, lonely existance, or does she bring it upon herself?
For 50+ pages you wonder if you're ever going to get to a real story and stop with the arcane name dropping.
Then, something happens (thanksfully), you find out what happened to Iris' first husband...
That's when the story gets juicy.
Your worst fears about Iris are confirmed, then rebuffed.
Finally, how cool a name is Iris Storm?
"And white she was, very white..." "Crumpled the letter was..." "Anxious the fat white clouds seemed..." More frequently it sounds Saxon: "That was that man's way." "That was a very quiet lady." "That was a gallant lady."Venice, whom we meet properly in Chapter Seven, is a much more engaging character than Iris, and the narrator improves in her company, too.
It doesn't hurt that two dramas are woven throughout the chapter: covering up the adultery, and Iris's near-death illness.
They may shift the way I read novels involving adultery (most novels).But one chapter can't redeem the novel.And in the end we descend to melodrama and puerile morality.
Arlen explores questions of purity, honour and loyalty from a post-WWI standpoint, revealing (and doubtless also creating) the values of the 1920s.
In the end, I think one could argue that the novel is fundamentally conservative, in that it supports very traditional values -- but the behaviours it uses to depict those values were quite shocking in their time.This makes for a great paired reading with an annoying May Sinclair book from 1908ish that I read around the same time -- ah, yes, The Helpmate.
Sinclair's novel also explores purity and loyalty, but is still closely tied to the Victorian worldview that Arlen has definitively broken away from.
This of course creates a feeling of mystery and it turns out that for me this made it a slow burner.
The language is at times flowery or poetic depending on your take on metaphor and simile.
The story is set in 1920's London and Paris and as I got into it started to remind me of The Great Gatsby which as it turns out was published a year later.
By he time I got to the end I was completely hooked and found the last chapter a real roller coaster - very thrilling.
Still it did grip me once I had got into it.
Absurd flowery prose, but this ancient bestseller was recommended to me because I too at one time wore a hat like that.
It's the story of Iris Storm, who wears a green hat, drives a yellow Hispano-Suiza, and deliberately presents herself as a woman of easy virtue because she has a dark, dark secret in her past - the sort of secret that only a woman in a 1920s bestselling novel could have.
Iris lives in Shepherd's Market and the novel's narrator, of course, is fascinated by her.
There goes Iris Storm, nee March, in her yellow Hispano-Suiza. Does that girl know how to shift? Her honking character is s'posedly based on Nancy Cunard/Idina Sackville. She tossed off 2 husby's -- one hurls himself fr a window, "for purity" and the pox. Arlen, an Armenian from Bulgaria, fawningly sniffs The Bright Young Things of Vulgaria. Headstrong Iris takes a final ride as boypal Hilary sobs, "Iris! Not that--." Yes, it's THAT.
I’ve seen the film which was based on the book, and I wanted to read the book to clarify some “items” that weren’t fully explained or touched upon in the pre-code film.
But I’m the type of reader that likes the author to get to the point; don’t dance and fluff around the subject.
Don’t make me read about all these unnecessary characters that I have no interest in and to me, don’t contribute anything to the story.
There wasn’t one single character I liked.
But you don’t have to like any of the characters to recognize a good story.
The Green Hat was written by a Armenian author, naturalized citizen of the United Kingdom and published in the London and the US in 1924.
The Green Hat tells the story of Iris Storm.
G. Wells and this book mentions H.
G. Wells and mentions his book Tono-Bongay.
After her first husband dies by suicide, Iris tells everyone he died “for purity”.
Only Napier is too much like his father and his concern for his own reputation makes him tell everyone what Iris meant when she told everyone her husband had died “for purity”.
The story is essentially that of Iris Storm, from the age of 18 to 30.
Her first husband mysteriously commits suicide by leaping out of a third story window on their honeymoon night.
She is well known for her fast driving of her Hispano-Suiza primrose automobile, whose stork hood ornament figures prominently in the story, as well as the fact that Iris is fond of claiming that it "can do 76".
British class structure, and paternal control of family fortunes, careers and marriages figure prominently, as does suicide, homosexuality, venereal disease, smoking and drinking.
I have now read this book three times.
This was great, even though it is certainly dated and a bit moralistic (not in the sense that it promotes morals, but the plot relies on assumptions about honor, and especially feminine virtue, which seem patronizing now.) But it was full of great, quotable lines. I almost want to buy the book so I can underline most of it and keep it.
Blah. It's reminding me exactly why I've found F. Scott Fitzgerald a chore to get through.
I’m also reading, in dribs and drabs, an biography of Nancy Cunard, which has a chapter on Arlen (they were lovers for a time, and the main character in The Green Hat – Iris Storm – has a resemblance, in some aspects, to Cunard) – whew – anyway, this is a long way around to quoting a description of The Green Hat: “high class trash”!
Not a bad description......and I enjoyed it on that level; but it was better than that - Arlen is no writing slouch.
“Hm,” he said.
For most of this book, I was rating it a 3 best so the 4 is probably generous.
The language early on was sometimes difficult to follow and the dialogue could be pretty painful - a combination of empty witticisms and declarations that seem profound but when you read them again make absolutely no sense at all (although there are some wonderful one liners about certain aspects of English society and character).
I’m glad that I persevered because when the story started to become clearer it was poignant and affecting.
Overall, I am not sure I could wholeheartedly recommend this because of the tough start, but I am very glad that I have read it.
Not a lot happens in the first half of this novel.
There are some great sentences.
Whatever its merits, and there were some, it didn't seem like something a lot of people would enjoy.In the second half the pace increased, and the last hundred pages flew, like Iris's bright yellow car through the dark countryside.
For much of the novel we are bothered by the stuffy Englishness of most of the characters, the unchallenged happiness-denying rules they maintain.
The climax of the novel confronts that old England with a passion and anger that the English wanted to hear in 1924.
The story of the author's life is as romantic and stylised as this book, which was a runaway success when published in 1924.
He made enough money from the success of this book to live comfortably the rest of his life, despite not managing to repeat such a red hot best-seller again.
It reminds me of Anthony Powell writing of the same time period (Powell has a character lend The Green Hat to a friend) but this was set in the time it was written and Arlen lived the life he wrote about.
This is unfortunate, because there's really a rather fun story to be had here and most readers will catch on to it around the 50th or so page, but it takes a while before it cements.But when it does, particularly when the novel moves from London to Paris, Arlen's Green Hat takes excellent shape.
It's a lot of fun as always with the 20's, and the story really notches up in value from there until an absolutely excellent ending.It's certainly worth a read, but you're going to have to swallow down those first 100 pages in pain and probably boredom before it truly opens up.
The play had some quite mixed reviews as the novel was very popular (and a bit shocking) and the play was a very watered down version.
So I decided I'd read the original novel.
There were so many fantastic passages and wonderful observations on people, society and literature.
The first scene has the two main characters discussing novels, and Iris' favourite was one of my favourites.
It was insightful and wonderful.
It felt more like a French novel than one in English.
As soon as it was finished I went and found another cheap old copy of another of his novels.
Kind of strange book. It seems to be very easy, maybe a bit sarcastical or satirical. Short sentences. Fairly simple language. But yet I found it difficuelt to understand. Maybe et is more complicated than I acknowledged at first. Perhaps the scene and narrator keep shifting. HOwever the difficulty most likely derive from the age of the book. I think I didnt understand many of the pictures, frases of persens refered to. The book is mainly about an upperclass women of 29. She mystifies the narrat
Kind of strange book.
It seems to be very easy, maybe a bit sarcastical or satirical.
Short sentences.
Fairly simple language.
But yet I found it difficuelt to understand.
Maybe et is more complicated than I acknowledged at first.
Perhaps the scene and narrator keep shifting.
HOwever the difficulty most likely derive from the age of the book.
I think I didn´t understand many of the pictures, frases of persens refered to.
The book is mainly about an upperclass women of 29.
She mystifies the narrator, and he tries to untangle her.
We learn about her unhappy love.

The novel came out in 1924 and was a big hit because of its "daring and exotic" risqué topics.
In 1928 it was made into a vague and sterilized Hollywood version entitled 'A Woman of Affairs', a silent movie starring Greta Garbo.The book has its moments.
It offers a glimpse at the 1920s social scene in London and Paris and captures the frenzy as well as the disenchantment of the period.
The overblown style of Arlen's writing was a bit annoying, especially at the beginning, and the story dragged on for too long.
Not really bad, but not a must-read I think.
Pretentious in the beginning and as someone else here mentioned, the archness of the narrator became tiresome. It is a 271 page book that took me 170 pages to get into. I put it down no less than 4 times to read other books, often thinking I wouldn't go back to it. But I have read so many good reviews by trusted readers that I kept trying. I am very glad I persisted. For the last 100 pages it was not-put-downable. I get it now.
The author of this lightly satirical book about a certain class of British 'bright young things' was Armenian.
He was a part of their world (there are real-life models for several of his characters), while perhaps being able to stand a little outside it and observe.
It is the story of Iris Storm, a scandalous beauty, and includes all the excesses indulged in by the 'fast set' of the time.
This should be a bad thing, but it suits the characters and the times, making it a very enjoyable book and not as slight a social commentary as it might appear.A 1928 Hispano-Suizahttp://allcarcentral.com/Hispano-Suiz...
I'm taken back to ideas of virtue and honor and how these ideas really apply to the almost modern world. The book was written over eighty years ago. With the advent of daytime television, our views towards men and women's purity have changed. We still need to find a true path to what is honorable and the consequences that our actions will have on the others most dear in our lives.
It's not actually about a green hat . . . . Yay depressing Modernism!
WHY IT'S ON MY TO-READ: 1920's Bright Young Things novel that made the author a fortune. Made into a movie with Greta Garbo.
I liked the writing, even though he was deliberately obscure at times. The plot, though, turned into laughable melodrama by the end
Though the plot was good, it was Arlen's writing style that made me like this book. Somehow, he is restrained and impressionistic at the same time. A very English book. #1000novels
Not an easy read. There's a lot of moralising but it has an interesting ending so worth sticking with.
