https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/833710.The_Merchant_of_Death
Not even something as terrifyingly cuddly as a trio of skydiving "ninja" cats could have won me over to this story. However, fans of this book/series can keep their dander down as this is not going to turn rant as I have no reason or desire to bash this tale. My angries were not provoked. The writing is fine, the main character is fairly engaging, there’s a decent back-story and nicely drawn diabolical villain. My less than lofty rating is more a recognition that this sub-genre of light, YA, com
I keep coming back to them occasionally because they’re easy, snack-like readings that make a nice palate cleansing sorbet from the more focus-required books I read.
So, after finishing The Price of Spring and Faust, this one seemed like a nice diversion...plus I've owned the audiobook for a few years and needed to get it off my on deck circle.
Cue infodump on fantasy cultures and people, see exotic animals, learn of subjugated people and need for savior, through in a badass female warrior (this was a nice touch) and some nasty monsters and supporting villains.
The story starts with Bobby Pendragon, a normal fourteen-year-old boy, preparing to leave his home to play in the state basketball semi-finals, but before he leaves, Courtney Chetwynde, a popular girl at his school, comes to his house and admits her feelings toward him.
مک هیل؛ مترجم: ویدا اسلامیه؛ تهران، تندیس، کتاب نخست تاجر مرگ 1387 چاپ پنجم تاجر مرگ 1393، کتاب دوم فار شهر گمشده 1388؛ کتاب سوم دنسای بدون جنگ 1389، و ...؛ دنیای فانتزی دنیای دیگریست، گاه جهنم است و گاه سرودی از بهشت؛ بابی پندراگن به ظاهر پسری عادی ست.
قرار است که او دنیا را نجات دهد ...
5 Golden Stars& more & more...!MARVELOUS!MASTERPIECE!EPIC!BEST SERIES I'VE EVER READ!
I was very lucky my friend recommended this series to me.this book is one of my favourite ones!
because it introduce me This amazing story!& If I've ever loved a book from the first sentence, that would be it!-Characters: ★★★★★/5I LOVE BOBBY!
I LOVE PRESS!
I love Mark & Courtney.
is my favourite!
(I always felt I want to skip the 3rd person chapters to reach Bobby's again.
I never did it tho; the 3rd person chapters are interesting too.)-Idea: ★★★★★/5
Though actually, it was a lot of exposition since everything kept being repeated several times.
On top of that, a lot of things happened in the plot just for the sake of the plot happening (which is why Bobby is so dumb in the first place methinks).
Some of the characters are competently characterized, but ultimately dull.
I think this is, perhaps, a problem of the pov because it was hard to think a man who mostly spent his time chatting with a queen and barely remembers to threaten to kill people or destroy the world, is the great evil villain of the books.
It's a technically competent book and was well plotted.
I appreciated that he reacted basically the way an unprepared fourteen year-old would upon being taken to a fantasy world and told that he has to save everyone there - he screws up again and again, he spends a lot of time cowering and hiding, and he mostly only thinks of getting away.
The way that one tribe oppresses the other in this fantasy world was surprisingly relevant to real-world oppression, and it makes the book a lot more thoughtful than I expected it to be.
His Uncle Press, who interrupts his great life at the time, appears to swoop Bobby on the fantastic journey through time and space.
Every moment, especially for young adults, no matter how fantastic the journey, Bobby relates to most situations in life, and his emotional and mental struggle to get a hold of what's really going on in Halla, and most importantly, himself.
Being a young reader, i give this book a definite 5/5 for its creativity and the ability to be able to understand both perspectives of child and adult, which is not very common in authors.
Frankly I think if I had a name like "Pendragon" by the time I was a young teen I'd have looked it up and said...wow cool.
So be aware that we have some death, we have some violence so I'd advise parents and guardians check it out first and then decide if their youths are ready for the book.(view spoiler)[The "love story is the traditional "wow I hate him/her" until of course the book moves toward it's end when we discover we don't really hate him/her...of course he (Pendragon) had a crush on a girl (back home) named Courtney.The continuing "magic" villain is named Saint Dane and...dun-dun-dun he'll be back.
I didn’t know what to think when I picked the book up because I’d heard very very little about the actual storyline aside from little bits and pieces from my boyfriend.This series is one of my boyfriend’s absolute favorites and he’s been wanting me to read it for a while, so he handed it to me last week and told me to read it.
I thoroughly enjoyed the characters in the book, Pendragon was such an awesome main character- I loved that he actually had a brain and used it.
Thank you to my amazing boyfriend for getting me to read this.
The Pendragon Series is my favorite book series of all time, probably because it's one of the first book series I've read, it's extremely long which I love in books, and also I've read it over a couple of years.
The first book starts out slow but once you keep reading you will get hooked and STAY hooked and pretty much devour each book one after another!I have to say my favorite book of the series was Book 9 Raven Rise.
A great read for anyone who loves suspense, thriller, mystery, sci-fi and time travel, and a long well thought out plot.
Within the first two chapters, there is a description of the main character's first open mouth kiss, a swear word, and talk of "making out". I don't like YA books that ask the YA to grow up too fast. I may have pushed through the book if the plot had been remotely original, but it wasn't (ordinary boy sucked into a wormhole to rescue a planet that's being dominated by an evil warlord). If this is your type of genre, go read "A Wrinkle in Time", "The Book of Three" or "The Dark is Rising". They are better quality reads.
Reread 2016----------One of my favorite series from middle school/early high school!
Still loving it just as much as I did the first time.
Press is still my favorite.I just love the premise of this series so much.
The idea of there being ten territories that exist in Halla throughout different points in both time and space that you can travel to through Flumes, ugh yes, sign me up.
Saint Dane is such a fantastic villain as well.
I can't wait to get to last couple of books seeing as I only read the last three once each as they came out and don't remember a whole lot of how it wrapped up.
I just finished reading the first book in this series and I am excited to have 7 more to plough through!
Simply put, the flow of the book does not allow me to jump into it, it keeps me separate and makes me constantly aware that these 'journal entries' are just a flowery way of telling Bobby's story and are not intended for Courtney and Mark at all.
I really wanted to like this book.
I am a big fan of young adult fantasy fiction and I was looking forward to a new series to get lost in...
The story had some interesting components but I couldn't get past the back and forth style between the journal entries of the main character, Bobby Pendragon, and the reactions of his friends, Mark and Courtney.
I will be interested to speak with my students who have read the book and see how it compares in their eyes with works of Garth Nix, JK Rowling or John Flanagan.
BEST BOOK EVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Such a good book, everyone should read it.
the main conflict Mark's friend goes missing and Mark and Courtney they go the stony brook Police station to tell Sergeant D' Angelo was listening to Mark and Courtney as he was taking notes on pencil and a notepad where he was getting info about Bobby Pendragon going missing but then as Sergeant D' Angelo was searching something on the computer he says that Mark and Courtney was wasting his time.
overall I enjoyed this book called pendragon where Mark was writing a journal of himself saying that he was going to the stony brook police station to find information about Bobby pendragon going to missing.
Pendragon: The Merchant of Death by D.J. Mchale is an adventurous fantasy book filled with hilarious modern, real-life references.
With his Uncle Press, his partner Loor, and his friend Alder, they embark through many dangers in Denduron.
I find the characters in this book as very interesting, lovable, and relatable characters because D.J. Mchale, somehow, chooses the same personality for the characters as the personality of my friends.
Some of them are like Loor, some of them are like Alder, and some of them are like Uncle Press and Bobby.
In the “Merchant Of Death” by D.J. McHale there were many different things that kept me interested in the book.
One thing that made me enjoy this book was that this book’s cover was kind of cool looking.
Another reason I liked this book was because the personalities of the characters were defined they each had a different one.
Like how Loor thinks bobby is unworthy to be a Traveler.
I read this book because I had already read a book farther in the series and I wanted to see how the whole thing started.
با کلی تاخیر، در 25 سالگی...با این توضیح که هیچی هری پاتر نمی شه...
Still such a great series. Very detailed time travelling adventure! Let’s see if I can keep rereading the series?
IIITTTT WWWWWWWWWWWWWAAAAAAAAAAAAASSSSSSSSSSSSSS AAAAAAAAAAAAMMMMMMMMAAAAAAZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZIIIIIIIIIIIIIIINNNNNNNNNNNNNGGGGGGGGGGGGGGIIIIIIIIIIIIINNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNGGGGGGGGGGGGGG!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Loved the moral ambiguity!
Probably would have enjoyed it more at a different age. Also, I thought it was going to be a take on Arthur legend (which is why I read it), and it wasn't at all haha. Fun concept though, I guess.
Review to come!
The Merchant of Death is the story of Bobby Pendragon, a normal fourteen year old boy who is going to save the world...
Bobby doesn't know it until his Uncle Press takes him through the gates of an alternative world called Denduron, preventing Bobby from attending a basketball game...
the basketball game and a certain Courtney Chedwynde are pretty much all that are on Bobby's mind.
Bobby's tale takes the form of a journal that his bestfriend Mark and near-girlfriend Courtney read...
Bobby's narration made me laugh outloud a few times and I'll admit that I was gripped enough to want to read the following books...
این چیزی که دارم می نویسم مروریه بر کلّ مجموعۀ پندراگن.
این جوری بود که تا جلد پنجم یک نفس خوندم.
فکر کنم شش روز طول کشید.اوّلش برام سوال بود که تا وقتی پندراگن هست اصلاً هری پاتر برای چی این قدر معروف شده؟ بعد که به خودم مرخصی دادم و کمی فاصله گرفتم از کتاب، تازه فهمیدم که ایراد کار از کجاست.یک: کتاب من رو برای دوباره خوندنش ترغیب نمی کنه.
یا خوشگل یا قوی یا باهوش، که این همذات پنداری رو کم می کنه.چهار: ساختار کلی داستانها تکراریه و توصیفات گاهی طولانی هستند و مدتی طول می کشه تا داستان واقعا شروع شه.
Well, this book was an interesting enough read that I finished it, but I doubt I'll be checking out any more in the series. Not a bad story, but parts of it felt very cliched and I was a little annoyed by the tone - it seemed to be trying too hard to be cool and current (for teens). Other than that there wasn't really anything wrong with it, it just wasn't as compelling as some of the other great young adult fantasy series that are out there.
the merchant of death....reading for the second time , well the first time was the translation and n
Maybe I'm too old to enjoy this. But it was so badly written and juvenile it pisses you off.
I first read The Merchant of Death in fifth grade.
Even five years after the release of the final installment in the series, it still stands as one of the best things I've ever read.
More than anything else, that was my reaction to this book: it's just a ridiculous amount of fun to reread.It's worth noting that I have the advantage of knowing how the series progresses from here.
I've read through the next nine books of character development and writing improvement.
I'm excited to reread the rest of the series.
Originally posted at FanLit. Bobby Pendragon is a normal middle-school kid and life is good.
When Bobby disappears, Courtney and Mark, Bobby’s best friend, get worried and start investigating.
I’m also not sure why MacHale chose to have Bobby narrate most of the plot in the form of letters to Mark and Courtney — I had a hard time believing that Bobby is sitting down recording his adventure in this way, especially since he’s far more verbose than any teenage boy I’ve ever encountered.But I’m not a 14 year old boy and I expect that many teenagers will be completely entertained by The Merchant of Death.
