https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102000.The_Voyeur
This was my first experience with the nouveaux romans of Robbe-Grillet, and it's a tough one for me to rate, as I had no idea what was happening half the time.
All I know for certain is that a traveling watch salesman returns to his small hometown island in order to sell as many watches as he can in the few short hours allotted to him (if he misses the ferry back he'll be stranded for days).
Even though it didn't keep me entirely engaged, I've already got a couple more Robbe-Grillet novels lined-up, so it didn't leave me totally cold.
Dig the Wikipedia plot summaryThrough ambiguous flashbacks and disorientating shifts of time and location, the film explores the relationships between the characters.
Conversations and events are repeated in several places in the château and grounds, and there are numerous tracking shots of the château's corridors, with ambiguous voiceovers.The characters are unnamed in the film; in the published screenplay, the woman is referred to as "A", the first man is "X", and the man who may be her husband is "M".I'm not saying the book is as bad as the movie, not at all.
We do not see the character Mathias on a three hour boat trip back to the island of his youth, or the large eyed little girl reminding him of Violet.
We have to be wary of exact but false memories which would substitute themselves for the original earth and stones.We are here to sell watches.
We sell time.Robbe-Grillet makes it difficult for us.
We just need to sell the watches and get back to the return boat before it leaves in the late afternoon.
This whimsical God tosses us through time and space at His unseen will.
If I were a Seinfeld like comedian I might make a routine out of making fun of this whole French New Novel thing (I'm not going to even give it the benefit of making it sound more important by using the French words).
I mean if you are going to destroy linear narrative in a book destroy linear narrative, but don't be a half-assed schmuck about it, what's up with that?" And I point back to my initial comment that this same feature worked great in the film Robbe-Grillet wrote, but in a novel it felt like half-baked silliness.
Here, unlike similarly subjective novels, Robbe-Grillet withholds any truly concrete narrative foundation as springboard to his stream-of-consciousness flights of fancy.
(Flashforwards and intercuts are typically film terms, Robbe-Grillet was a director and screenwriter and his prose is extremely cinematic in its structure.
We can have nothing but contempt for a century that relegates such blueprints to its so-called museums.I can't help but feel like the absences of Robbe-Grillet's lonely locations and narrative continuity attain something similar.
(However, Robbe-Grillet’s repetition-use is more extreme, on some level, since he will repeat a description of a scene but use, say, three different words; or he’ll have a paragraph that covers the same ground but directly contradicts the paragraph before it, an antirepetition; or he’ll write the same paragraph in different tenses).
Third, they can both be willfully discursive (but who isn’t these days; it's like the eighteenth century all over again).The suspense in the book is intense and concerns stuff like When is Robbe-Grillet going to switch in a flash to the present tense again, When will the next slight alteration in narrative style occur, How many times is he going to repeat this particular hypnotic image.
A slog. With a mere 25 pages to go, I lost patience and couldn't finish it. There's a redundancy of detail that, I know, Robbe-Grillet thinks is his clever structural trick, but here, in translation, unlike in the exquisite Jealousy, is simply tedious. Read Jealousy instead.
4.75/5 - Exquisite
One of the strangest books ever wriiten, this could be a sinister mystery of a girl's disappearnce o
If this is the New Novel, I'd like the Old Novel back.
Who is the voyeur?
Is it the salesman, bumbling around on his bicycle with his gumdrops, cigs and cord?
Is it the entire village?
Is it the ominous sea gull?
Is it the reader?
There are so many planes and figure eights in this novel.
So many slices and sluices, parallels and perpendiculars.
Prepare to feel like you're failing algebra.
You want motive?
You want a sex scene?
Robbe-Grillet gives us a series of napes.
Napes of necks.
Necks with scratches.
Blood droplets.
And the like.
This was such a gripping, suspenseful book. The premise is very simple: a salesman visits a small island of which he was once a resident, hoping to sell his stock of wristwatches. After that, everything is up for grabs, including the central turn of the plot, the murder of a young girl. The suspense builds slowly, but don't run out of patience. This is a meta-thriller, where you begin to doubt whether there's even such a thing as "narrative" at all.
I cannot read this hypnotic book enough times. Imagine being inside the mind of Peter Lorre's character in M, only through multiple ambiguous shots. Did the timid watch salesman brutally kill the girl? Inside his head you can feel the disassociation and increasing feeling of contained hysteria. And who is the voyeur?
So creepy...

it took a while for me to get into this but once i did, it was stunning. incredibly geometric, cinematic but all chopped up. fucking genius.
Bir an önce kurtulmak istercesine okuduğum başka bir kitap hatırlamıyorum.
Edebice (edebiyat açısından) bir terbiyesizlik yapmak istemem ama benim görüşüm bu şekilde.
"Yeni Roman" akımının öncülerindenmiş yazarı ama sanırım o "yeni" çok eskilerde kaldı.
Balzac ve Stendhal gibi üstadları ayrı tutarsak sanırım Fransız yazarlığında bir sorun var.
Okuyanların da yarısı kutup ayısı yarısı ise penguen olmuş bu durumda :) Bu yorum, benim gibi düşünenler için bir uyarı bir ön bilgilendirme mahiyetinde yazılmıştır.
"L'ordre temporel et événementiel du Voyeur est donc totalement et constamment troublé par les nombreux retours en arrière, par les scènes proleptiques ou imaginaires, et par un mélange de temps qui s'imbriquent les uns dans les autres et qui en viennent à se confondre.Ce qui a pour effet de déstabiliser le lecteur qui ne sait plus où il doit se situer et comment il doit comprendre les événements désordonnés qu'il est en train de décoder.
Le Voyeur ne contient aucune intrigue; le but c'est de déstabiliser le lecteur et de le forcer à participer aux étapes de déconditionnement.
Not only did the author do a great job at keeping you feeling disoriented, and slightly confused at everything, but at the end, when you take a step back, you're not sure if you even read the book, or it was all in your head.
The book does such a good job of keeping you just as disoriented as the protagonist, you come out of reading it, and you are haunted by it.
While I finished the book thinking I knew all the answers, the style in which it was written, and how the author presented all the information, keeps me wondering.
What was it that happened in France in the mid-20th Century?
Why did all of these writers suddenly start writing these eerie, abstract things that, while rooted in descriptions of such everyday shit, kind of just roll around?
Did it have anything to do with the fact that their countrymen, people like Chris Marker and Alain Resnais, were making filmic equivalents?Whatever the answer, The Voyeur is a perfect example of one of these weird French things, written by the primary theorist of the nouveau roman.
Utterly baffling, utterly stunning, and if you think that all those characteristics of the novel that your 8thgrade English teacher pointed out deserve some rethinking, you'll dig it.
read yesterday in the paper that robbe-grillet passed away. i read this book a long time ago so my memory of it is not so fresh. but i do recall being very affected by the style, the creepiness of it. or how the author makes you feel like a voyeur just by reading about a voyeur. in a way, something similar to what knut hamsun achieved in hunger (making the reader feel insane from hunger).
Fascinating exploration of point of view, with the third person narration doubling back on his own timeline in an elegant figure eight. I'd love to teach this book some day, though it might be too difficult for undergraduates.
Yes, this is good.
هشتاد صفحه اول کتاب، یعنی بخش یک، شدت جریان سیال ذهن و مکرر گوییها شاید کمی آزارنده باشد. خاصه برای خوانندهای که اول بار است روب گرییه میخواند اما در ادامه، هم روند داستان شفافتر میشود و هم از سیالیت آن کاسته میشود تا خواننده با اشتیاق بیشتری داستان را پی گیرد. حضور سوم شخص در ذهن ماتیاس، تصویرسازیهای واضح و شفاف روبگرییه با آن توصیفات دقیق و طولانی و حتا طول جملات داستان در یک هماهنگی کامل باعث سهولت تصور روند داستان میشوند. روبگرییه به خوبی توانسته اضطراب مورد نظرش را به خواننده منتقل کندروب گ
خاصه برای خواننده‌ای که اول بار است روب گری‌یه می‌خواند اما در ادامه، هم روند داستان شفاف‌تر می‌شود و هم از سیالیت آن کاسته می‌شود تا خواننده با اشتیاق بیش‌تری داستان را پی گیرد.
حضور سوم شخص در ذهن ماتیاس، تصویرسازی‌های واضح و شفاف روب‌گری‌یه با آن توصیفات دقیق و طولانی و حتا طول جملات داستان در یک هماهنگی کامل باعث سهولت تصور روند داستان می‌شوند.
در هر بخش قطعاتی از پازل را در اختیار قرار می‌دهد اما این قطعات آن قدر پراکنده نیستند که خواننده زیرک پیش از پایان بخش دوم، کل ماجرا را حدس نزده باشد.
از آن چا به بعد عطش این باقی می‌ماند که صحت حدس را دریابیم و عاقبت ماجرا را.
My edition:In Czech: Hana JovanovičováPH: Pragma Hodkovičky2015218 pagesI did not know what to expect.
A brute and natural style (I liked the translation) supporting the story, naked body, bacchanalians feasting...
This one, the Voyeur is like a puzzle: slightly mixed parts - happenings and text together, past before future - and your mind was in turbulence.
Story about a tragic hawker - a specialist for rural environment, plus on an island, cold one - depressive.
Story is boring at the first glance, but as you enter the whole picture and book, you might enjoy a great style and spirit.
Utterly it is a different book.
My world literature professor assigned this my first semester at university. I thought I loved reading. This book made me question that. I didn't realize I only knew how to read books that were straight-forward and a distinct beginning, middle, and end. Fortunately my professor was absolutely incredible, and to this day it's my favorite college class. The Voyeur is a challenging piece, but it's worth the read!
Although he is rarely mentioned these days that is a mistake. He is in the same rank as Joyce and Woolf.
Libro difícil de leer por la forma diferente de escribir (nouveaux romans ), supuestamente él fue de los pioneros en este estilo! La primera parte fue un martirio con la descripción minuciosa ( yo creo que peor que Madame Bovary ), pero después te descontrola con el estilo, hasta que entiendes que te quiere decir!
I am re-reading this book that has made a lasting impression on me, from when I first read it as a child. I am reading an old Éditions de Minuit edition, en français, which I have had since 1965, not the "kindle" edition. It is an amazing book.
The questions around identity and the nature of subjective reality as it affected narrative had been bouncing around for a long time (Lennon was lining up with Lewis Carroll, much of the narrative "trickery" could be traced back to Diderot) but it was only now that they seemed to be demanding answers of a sort from the world at large.And this book, published in 1955, offered a deadpan literary voice reacquainting us with our own absurdity as salespeople finding it hard to remember our own past unless there was someone there to corroborate it for us.
A few months ago I was reading a critical introduction to Robbe-Grillet's Jealousy/In the Labyrinth and during a discussion of R-G's earlier novels I came across a description of the same book (They Voyeur) I had heard about in college.
Towards the beginning there are a series of chronology jumps based around objects or conversations common to both times, and the effect is so powerful and so well done that I had to put the book down for a second because it was giving me a tingly feeling in my stomach.P.S. Towards the end of the novel I started imagining R-G as someone suffering from OCD, who lives in a house where everything is perfectly aligned at ninety degree angles.
