https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79936.The_Complete_Poems_and_Plays_1909_1950
Each Jewish reader, when they sit down to read Eliot (or Celine) has to decide for him or herself whether the anti-semitism can be overlooked.
But after long consideration many years ago I decided that his poetry wasn't (for some reason which I couldn't pin down) infected by his own personal faults and diseases.
There was one four or five year period when, while jogging, I listened, on my Walkman, to Eliot himself reading "The Waste Land," over and over and over and over, for months, for years.
She finally went with Joyce because, particularly at the time, she couldn't stomach an Eliot project.
I never understood Eliot on my first reading, but was sucked in by the music of his language. His words are like jazz. As I continued to read, I started to understand what he was saying and not saying. This book taught me how to write poetry, and it holds an honored place on my nightstand.
I'm not a huge reader of poetry, and had never read T. S. Eliot, so this was a good experience. I thoroughly enjoyed some of his work, some was clever and funny, and some (like The Waste Land) was impenetrable. I'm choosing not to give a rating, because I'm not sure I could do so fairly.
I just realized leafing through his poems that a lot of them have to do with aging gracelessly. I wish that had occurred to me in college. I might have written some better papers.
Eliot, like all the greats, is one that you can read again and again and always find some new intricacy.
If you love the poems, read the plays-- and this volume is a great way to go about it, refreshing your memory of the poetry before venturing to his attempts at drama, which are littered with references to his earlier lyric work.
If you don't know the poems, Prufrock and The Waste Land are indispensable, but almost all of the others, even the minor works, are worth reading multiple times.
The T. S. Eliot to get***** A Five Star Poetry Book: Recommended for All ReadersEvery library with any poetry should include T. S. Eliot, and this Houghton Mifflin Harcourt 1971 is the one to get. Though it lacks a few later minor poems included in T. S. Eliot: Collected Poems, 1909-1962  (The Centenary Edition), it has the advantage of including his three best plays, and is beautifully printed and produced in a rather austere format which well suits the verse.
Fabulous, wonderful collection to read alongside some criticism. I sleep with this by my bedside.
It’s T.S. Eliot, which is enough said.
“The Love Song of J.
Alfred Prufrock” will always be one of my very favorite poems for imagery.“Let us go then, you and I When the evening is spread out against the sky Like a patient etherized upon a table...”And,“For I have known them all already, known them all:Have known the evenings, mornings, afternoons,I have measured out my life with coffee spoons...”And,“But though I have wept and fasted, wept and prayed,Though I have seen my head (grown slightly bald) brought in upon a platter,I am no prophet—and here’s no great matter;I have seen the moment of my greatness flicker,And I have seen the eternal Footman hold my coat, and snicker,And in short, I was afraid.”Great stuff!
Perhaps Eliot couldn’t care less that I (and most of the English-speaking world) can’t read Italian and simply placed it at the beginning of his work to be ornamental, but I assumed that he meant for the reader to bear it in mind.
In which case, translating it would not only have been courteous, but would have been the only way of ensuring that every reader had the same opportunity of reading “The Love Song” proper in the way he intended.
In addition, one should be aware of his off the cuff classical references which are around every corner: Homer is the greatest referent, as I recall, but he was also fond of Seneca, Ovid and the great Roman writers and they appear often also.The later poems are far less filled with fatalism but have greater finesse and sense of justification and spirit.
Eliot is awe-inspiring as a poet/writer, well worth the time he demands for study...
and rest assured that you will come back again and again for further lessons of greatness.

I agree that his light volume of good poems is a negative, but realistically, "Prufrock" and "Waste Land" alone merit a Nobel Prize.
When you add in "Gerontion", "The Hollow Men", "The Four Quartets", and "Murder in the Cathedral", screw low volume, you've got one of the all timers.Not only that but he's a key part of the most kickass sequence of Nobel winners in history, 1946-1949, Hesse, Gide, Eliot, and Faulkner (and if you wish to extend it 1950 - Bertrand Russell is pretty kickass too).
That's insane, it's Gide who is still widely read today and 3 of the 5 most indisputable winners of the prize!
T.S. Eliot was an amazing poet.
If he would have stopped at The Waste Land, it would have all be fine.
Alfred Prufrock," to name a couple.
I also managed to get different things on different readings of Prufrock, depending on whether I stop to translate and think about the source of the Italian at the beginning or not.
S. Eliot was truly amazing, my favorite poet.
He just didn't stay that way.On another note, I was told in an English class that when T.
We don't have poets like that any more.
Is it because of poets have changed?
And more interestingly, in what ways have they changed?
As the most important stylistic English poet, T.S. Eliot uses of imagery and his control of syntax are absolutely breathtaking.
Four Quartets stands as a testament to the power of poetry amid the chaos of the time.
Let the words speak for themselves: "Love/Love is the unfamiliar Name/Behind the hands that wave/The intolerable shirt of flame/Which human power cannot remove./We only live, only suspire/Consumed by either fire or fire."----------------------------------"Wipe your hand across your mouth, and laugh; The worlds revolve like ancient women Gathering fuel in vacant lots." - from "Preludes, IV"
Rated: BThe New Lifetime Reading Plan: Number 116I love T.
You have to understand British culture and London life of the 1900's to appreciate some of his works.
But his words, his twist of a phrase are memorable.I re-read this book almost 24 years after my first reading.
His classic poems (Prufrock, The Wasteland, The Hollow Men) have great lines and imagery.
I was drawn to "Choruses from 'The Rock'" now more than before.Perhaps his most fun work, made famous by Andrew Lloyd Webber, are his collection of poems "Old Possum's Book fo Practical Cats" on which the musical "Cats" was based.
T. S. Eliot is one of the rare twentieth-century writers whose work I relish. His poems are not always enjoyable, but they are always arresting. Reading the whole of his poetry in chronological order reveals much about his personal and religious transformations. His ability to write poetry whose simple words cloak profound paradox reminds me in some ways of the writings of Saint John the Evangelist. No matter how many times you come back, there is always more. Eliot is a poet for a lifetime.
I won't even pretend to review Eliot. The Four Quartets - which is what our group was reading together - are poems that focus on time and one's place within it. Timelessness and death and god and love are integral to these four poems of Eliot's last years. They feel as if conclusive to his years and writing; a 'This Is What I Believe' statement. They are pretty magnificent.We read them the context of Buddhist theology, including a commentary from a contemporary Buddhist writer exploring the parallels in the Quartets and in Buddhist theology of time.
Here's another one of those books that will always be in the process of being read and never finished.
I find that a single piece of Eliot's work can be read a dozen times or more in a single sitting.
His narrative construction is lucid, his imagery and descriptive language is in a revere of its own, ethereal.
Each reading seems to constitute its own identity, the moments of humour, disgust, bleakness and joy that last all to briefly, never remain so during a second reading, and so your eyes gaze back to the first line, in wonder, for a third time.
He's work is sublime.
Another that I read several decades ago! I owned it actually - fell madly in love with Eliot, many of his poems (first was Ash Wednesday, my favorite was and still is Prufrock) and his plays (particularly Murder in the Cathedral), when poring over this book as a very young man. I don't know what the current assessment academe offers of Eliot, and I don't much care - for me one of the very greatest modern poets.
We already own Selected Poems, Murder in the Cathedral and Collected Poems 1909-1935. So, not sure we really need the collected works (unless we're being picky).
Feel bad admitting this, but I’ve only read some main parts of his collected works. The Waste Land, Hollow Men, Ash Wednesday, and Four Quartets, Prufrock … a few other. Still, these are some all time moving works to know.
I haven't read all of it, but Eliot is one of my favorite poets. I especially enjoy his poems, "The Magi" and "Gerontion", and the play, "Murder in the Cathedral." I first discovered Eliot in an English class in high school.
There is certainly no purpose in remaining in the darkExcept long enough to clear from the mindThe illusion of having ever been in the light.
I cannot rate this collection highly enough. T.S. Eliot was one of the greatest geniuses in the modern age. Though his reputation suffers from the criticism of C.S. Lewis and the allegation of elitism, if one takes the time to read his work his poetry is more than capable of breaking these false enchantments. Eliot has been one of my greatest teachers, and I shall ever be returning to him for comfort and advice.
My favorite poet of all time. Gorgeous, thought-provoking, mind-numbing, and powerful. No other twentieth-century poet even comes close to the skill of Eliot.
T.S. Eliot is a genius of colossal proportions. It is a joy and a privilege to read his poems.
Weird, lugubrious, pallid with green face-powder, completely affected, this native Missourian turned tortured Bloomsbury aesthete turned prim Anglican (the reinventions of self call to mind Bob Dylan in reverse, the personality shrinking rather than expanding) became the voice calling in the wilderness of post-World War I Europe.
With Eliot, the difficulty is more like playing a parlor game at Oxford – “What allusion to which John Donne poem am I making?
Like Sylvia Plath, whose poetic persona wandered in a self-created wasteland of her own and who owed a huge debt to Eliot, he is perhaps a poet who has his greatest impact upon the young.
Alfred Prufrock" are good poems, but I doubt I could remember a single line of "Four Quartets." Some poems draw you in, and some feel like homework assignments.
(Full disclosure: I did a paper on Prufrock about hum-de-hum years ago, in which I missed the point entirely.)I can't honestly say I liked the three plays all that much, but that might just be because I prefer to watch a drama rather than read it.
(For some reason, I kept visualizing all the characters in "The Family Reunion" more or less immobile on stage, each with his or her own spotlight, reciting their lines without inflection, like something out of a Beckett production.)I haven't revised my opinion of my dozen-or-so favorite five-star Eliot poems.
It’s haunted by the pessimism and anxiety of his era, most brilliantly articulated in his early work of Prufrock, Preludes, The Hollow Men and, most notoriously, The Waste Land.
It’s also haunted by the profound mysteries of his adopted Christian faith found in Ash Wednesday, Choruses from “The Rock,” and the magisterial Four Quartets.
Finally, it’s haunting in how it sticks with you after you’ve read it.
This is an impossible emotional resonance too because the poetry shouldn’t be so moving: it’s a staid, erudite and hyperlexical poetry.
Eliot wrote this stuff in Europe during the first half of the twentieth century, a time and place bent on unspeakable destruction and horror.
Eliot’s poetry is wonderful and strange and confusing and complicated and allusive and beautiful and dangerous. I definitely recommend reading some of his work - be prepared to not understand everything and to be okay with that; not understanding can be a great experience. That being said, if you’re interested in all of the allusions Eliot makes, check out A Guide to the Selected Poems of T.S. Eliot, which I found to be an interesting counterpart to Eliot’s poems. (Also, a good guide for the Four Quartets is Redeeming Time: T.S. Eliot's Four Quartets.)
Superlative. It's easy to forget today that Eliot's poetry was innovative in both technique and subject matter when originally written. I can do no better than to quote "Tradition and the Individual Talent", an essay from the poet himself: "What happens when a new work of art is created is something that happens simultaneously to all the works of art that preceded it." Such is the relationship of Eliot's poetry to the canon.
One of my favorite poets! I read this in high school, and it shaped my writing. Complex, thick with allusions and "found" poetry.
the lovesong of j alfred prufrock is genius, but the rest is basically the same poem over and over again - life is meaningless; we can never connect with each other; women frighten me; life frightens me; death cannot come soon enough; the earth is a desolate thing; repeat.i still love prufrock, and i am willing to concede that perhaps the old boy is writing over my head.
but i couldn't help feeling, as i waded through the four quartets and the plays and the rest of it, that eliot was the just the first goth, and i don't even mean that in a good way.
If you like the Old Possum, you must buy this and keep it on your bedside.
I traveled Europe with this book on me. It was perfect.
While the compilation lacks some of his smaller plays and minor early poems, it does serve as a suitable collection of Eliot's major works. Even though it may not be 'definitive,' it sure comes close, and it certainly deserves a spot on the bookshelf of anyone curious about exploring one of the greatest poets and writers of the Modern Era.
I'm not ashamed to say that I like this poet. If it weren't for "Love Song..." I wouldn't have given poetry another. To bad certain teachers have ruined the experience of reading a great poet. I recommend reading Eliot without ever reading a word of criticism about him. Avoid the biographies, its all in the poetry, all of it.
A huge influence on modern literature; i think poetry especially would not exist as it currently does had The Waste Land never been published. His plays are also fantastically funny and touching; The Family Reunion is fraught with emotional tension in a vein similar to Eugene O'Neill.
I don't pretend to understand half of what Eliot is saying. But what I do understand -- e.g., The Hollow Men, Four Quartets, The Love Song of J. Alfred Proofrock -- I understand completely. They are among the finest poems I've ever had the pleasure of reading.
I know it's a minority opinion, but T.S. Eliot's Christian poetry is superior to his earlier work and thus to all other poetry written in the 20th century. 'The wounded surgeon plies the steel / That questions the distempered part.'
My mother likes to tell me that my first outing as a newborn babe was to a discussion of T.S. Eliot. Perhaps this is why I've always liked his work. ;) I've only read bits though, so need to work my way all the way through.
I may be too literal of a reader for something like Eliot. A few bits here and there stuck out at me, but for the most part I didn't get it. I saw glimpses that told me he was probably a great writer, but he isn't one for me.
T.S. Eliot is my favorite American poet. I did not identify with any of the other American poets I studied in school, but "The Hollow Men" really evoked ideas and imagery for me that I had not experienced before.
This book was hard to finish. Some good poems and some not so good poems. It was also very boring and had me falling asleep while reading. There really wan't anything that kept my interest or attention.
I own 2 copies of this book so that I never need to be without it; I grew up with this book and if I only had one book, this would have to be it. I'll never be done reading it while I'm alive!
