https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/764073.When_the_Emperor_Was_Divine
“But we never stopped believing that somewhere out there, in some stranger’s backyard, our mother’s rosebush was blossoming madly, wildly, pressing one perfect red flower after another out into the late afternoon light.” It's easy to make a story like this melodramatic, moralistic, overwrought with feelings. A less skilled writer would have done it. A story of an unnamed Japanese-American family banished from their quiet life in Berkeley to spend over three years in an internment camp for a sim
A story of an unnamed Japanese-American family banished from their quiet life in Berkeley to spend over three years in an internment camp for a simple "crime" of being Japanese in the US during World War II is, after all, a story that comes with built-in pathos and anger - a collision of emotions that in the right hands can deliver a perfect punch.
It follows a Japanese-American family that is sent to an internment camp in the Utah desert during World War II.
The story follows the family as they get the news of the forced relocation, the trip to the camp, how they lived in the barracks, and finally, after more than three years of incarceration, their return home.
I had read her other novel The Buddha in the Attic, which follows a group of Japanese women immigrating to America, and it is also gorgeous and heartbreaking.
We used to stand in line for our meals three times a day.
How do you write about trauma? Are you verbose and expansive? Terse and straighforward? In this case, you use elegant and spare prose that brings home the extent of the wrong by never quite stating it in so many words. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
In this novella eight years earlier, the narrative tends to be more conventional, yet it still has fresh and lyrical approaches for portraying this sad chapter in American history.The boy of focus in the tale is eight at the time after Pearl Harbor when his father gets taken away from his Berkeley home by the FBI in the middle of the night.
Because he was known to have a Shinto shrine with a picture of Emperor Hirohito, he was treated as a likely spy and later interned in a high security camp in New Mexico.
داستان درمورد زندگی مهاجران ژاپنی در آمریکا در بحبحهی جنگ جهانی دوم است. خانوادهای که به واسطه نژادشان تنبیه میشوند! زیرا که انسان گرگ انسان است. هر فصل از این داستان از زبان و دیدگاه یکی از اعضای خانواده نوشته شده که درگیریهای ذهنی خودش و خانوادهاش را با زبان و تفکر خود بیان میکند. فضای سیاه آن روزگار به شکلی صریح و مینیمالیستی بیان شده و سقوط انسان را در حاشیه جنگ جهانی دوم نشان میدهد.
داستان درمورد زندگی مهاجران ژاپنی در آمریکا در بحبحه‌ی جنگ جهانی دوم است. خانواده‌ای که به واسطه نژادشان تنبیه می‌شوند! زیرا که انسان گرگ انسان است. هر فصل از این داستان از زبان و دیدگاه یکی از اعضای خانواده نوشته شده که درگیری‌های ذهنی‌ خودش و خانواده‌اش را با زبان و تفکر خود بیان می‌کند. فضای سیاه آن روزگار به شکلی صریح و مینیمالیستی بیان شده و سقوط انسان را در حاشیه جنگ جهانی دوم نشان می‌دهد.‏
I finished reading When the Emperor Was Divine a couple of days ago, and I was at a loss for words for my review.
Check it out if you haven't already.Anyway, part of my goals this year is to review every single book I read, and so OCD got the better of me, and here I am now.
How can I sum up this book without being redundant?
Simply this: this is a book that needs to be read at some point in your life.
Life didn't just resume like it had before.
Either way, you can't go wrong with either one of these books.
Those caught and balanced between two countries that each in their own way loathe the Other within their land and that is the last thing I will say about the latter of the two cause, trust me, my side's got enough with the slurs, the rape fetishes, the white scholars making bank off of Orientalization, the concentration camp histories gone over in this tome and the military bases in Okinawa.
It is one of many power plays constantly calculating how far the white US citizen can go in their treatment of this country, that religion, those people, their face, taking what they please and shaming what they know because there're few things in this world that make money faster than fear.
They’re just not choices that I agree with.Otsuka details the experiences of a family of Japanese Americans placed in an internment camp during World War II.
And, outside of a brief first-person rant from the father that ends the book, we’re given very little in terms of the emotional turmoil of the characters.Which is unfortunate, because Otsuka has a gift for describing longing, a note she hits well, over and over.
The reader has no sense of why this family is important, or perhaps a sense of what makes their experiences unique and engaging.
3.75While not as lyrical as The Buddha in the Attic, Otsuka’s first novel achieves much of the same cumulative power.
The penultimate chapter, written in first-person plural, is, of course, most reminiscent of the former and perhaps in its writing Otsuka discovered the style she would later use for The Buddha in the Attic.
But it is the last and shortest chapter that packs the hardest punch, pointing out even more so the absurdness, danger and sadness of this time (a time that could come again if we’re not careful).
But that last chapter doesn't stand on its own: it does because of what’s come before, that cumulative power.
During World War II, in fact, mere months after Pearl Harbor, thousands of Japanese residents of the United States were labeled enemy aliens and removed from their homes, transported across country to camps set up in the middle of the desert, inhospitable spots of searing heat in the summer and terrible cold in the winter.
We readers witness the break up of the home, the reactions of neighbors, the long, long train trip and then arrival in what will be a new home for however long.This is a spare book, a novella really, but every page is packed with earned emotion.Highly recommended glimpse into an era that is little talked about in US history.
The husband/father taken off in bathrobe and slippers for interrogation and, as we would guess from his state five years later, abuse and shortly afterwards his wife and two young children are herded onto trains with other prisoners, guilty of nothing more than having differently shaped eyes, different coloured skin and taken to concentration camps in the deserts of Utah.This is the story.
She also communicates the burden of guilt the children take on as they think it must be their fault, something they did or even they begin to look to the memory of their father and wonder whether he is the guilty party.
Assuming you have read the book description, you already know this book’s theme is the treatment of Japanese during WW2 and Japanese internment camps in the USA.
This very short novel reads as a prose poem.
However in the book, after the war, when the family was released from the internment camp and when the father was reunited with his family, that is when all the accusations and fears were shouted out.
The contrast hits the reader like a slam in the face.
The earlier detachment and now the honest truths were slammed up against each other.
Il libro inizia con la lettura dell'ordine di evacuazione per tutti i giapponesi dalle città.E' straziante davvero leggere queste pagine che danno voce soprattutto ai pensieri dei due bambini.
A come vedono e vivono quello che gli succede.Straziante le ultime due pagine con il racconto del padre.Non sappiamo come si chiamano.
Non sono riuscita a dare le quattro stelle perchè anche se mi ha toccato molto, non mi ha rapito come lo scorso libro.
With already so many wonderful reviews -- I'm going to just add one quote I thought about (something
I am back for another taste of Julie Otsuka's writing.
She certainly has the knack of saying much with brevity and skill- and making her point (s)!************************************Many books have been written about the outrageous internment of Japanese Americans during WW II.
Julie Otsuka had given us a taste of this situation in her more recent book, The Buddha in the Attic .
With spare elegance she conveys the indignities, the unconscionable treatments and the sense of total loss and despair that is felt by the victims of the internment.
Second, is the disrespect--it is worth noting that a Japanese American unit was the most decorated, controlling for length of service and size, of any American military group in history; among its many accomplishments was saving the Lost Brigade surrounded by Germans.
(Lest anyone think that the analogy to the current debate breaks down here, I have volunteered in refugee services, where I met Iraqis who lost their homes and their homeland and even saw members of their families murdered, all because they helped the American cause in their country).
Then there is the loss to the nation, because of so many whose contribution was forfeited (though, Otsuka argues, individual Americans profited by seizing property from the absent Japanese).
"شبی که دستگیرش کردند، ازم خواست براش یه لیوان آب بریزم. تازه رفته بودیم به رخت خواب. خیلی خسته بودم، خیلی. برای همین بهش گفتم خودش بره برای خودش آب بریزه. اون هم گفت: "ولش کن." بعد گرفت خوابید. چند ساعت بعد، اومدن و بردنش. همه ش فکر می کنم یه وقت تشنه نباشه.""حتما تو ایستگاه بهش آب دادن""باید خودم براش آب میبردم.""خب آخه تو خبر نداشتی.""حتی حالا هم، توی خواب می بینم آب میخواد، تشنه است." روایت تلخ اسارت و اجبار، روایت سال های دور از خانه و پدر، روایت احساس تلخ تبعیض...خوندن از تاریخ، خوندن از
همه ش فکر می کنم یه وقت تشنه نباشه.""حتما تو ایستگاه بهش آب دادن""باید خودم براش آب میبردم.""خب آخه تو خبر نداشتی.""حتی حالا هم، توی خواب می بینم آب میخواد، تشنه است."
روایت تلخ اسارت و اجبار، روایت سال های دور از خانه و پدر، روایت احساس تلخ تبعیض...خوندن از تاریخ، خوندن از تاریخِ وحشی گری انسان ها میتونه خیلی وحشتناک باشه...
از روزهایی در سال ۱۹۴۲ که هزاران ژاپنی باید خونه و زندگی‌شون رو رها کرده و به اردوگاهی میان بیابان‌های یوتا برن.وحشتناک نیست؟ اینکه از هم نوع هات خنجر بخوری، اینکه ارزشت بعنوان یک انسان گم بشه میون رنگ پوستت...
میون خون توی رگ هات.این قصه یه قصه ی تلخه...
Of all the books I've read about the Japanese-American internment camps, this one wasn't my favorite.
It's a short read, just under 145 pages, and there are only four chapters, each focusing on a different family member.You never find out their names, which made it a little hard to get attached to the characters.
And it's a story where you want to get attached to the people.
On the other hand, the Japanese sadly became nameless, faceless "enemies" of the war and the book really shows how they were not treated like humans.
And that their story could fit with any Japanese family.
Gorgeous in its spareness, and heartbreaking in its simplicity. This is, quite honestly, a history I knew nothing of previously (being miles and worlds away, and the school curriculum as hideously limited as it still is) but I think through Julie Otsuka can be learned so much more than any dry textbook could ever hope to teach.
This is a very fast and worthwhile read about a Japanese family who suffers the indignities of the World War II internment camps here in the U.S. This book can easily be read in two or three hours if you have uninterrupted time.
Prior to reading this, I'd only read about the Manzanar camp in California.
So it was interesting to read about the Topaz camp in Utah.
If you also want to read a book with a little more concrete information about this subject, try Farewell to Manzanar.
Heck, read both books.
After reading "The Buddha in the Attic" by Julie Otsuka, I was interested in reading this book.
As in the first book, "When the Emperor Was Divine" is prose that reads like poetry.
Nevertheless, the book deals with a subject rarely discussed - the internment of Japanese Americans during World War II.
While "The Buddha in the Attic" deals with the whole Japanese immigrant experience leading up to the internment, "When the Emperor Was Divine" deals with the internment itself.
This book is a must read about a subject probably deliberately ignored - a shameful period in our history that we have yet to collectively acknowledge and apologize for.
When the Emperor Was Divine is a powerful book that portrays the internment of those of Japanese ancestry after the bombing of Pearl Harbor during World War II and is told from the perspective and point of view of the father who is taken from their Berkley, California home by the FBI and imprisoned in New Mexico for the duration of the war.
We also get the points of view of the mother, the 11-year old girl and the 8-year old boy as they are transported to an internment camp in a desert in Utah and the subsequent years spent there.
Narrando con frasi essenziali, ma meno telegrafiche del precedente romanzo, accende i riflettori su una vergognosa pagina di storia americana : l'internamento da parte del governo americano dei cittadini di origine giapponese che seguì l'attacco di Pearl Harbour.
Quelli che fino al giorno prima erano cittadini americani a tutti gli effetti - buoni vicini di casa, piccoli commercianti, uomini d'affari, studenti- furono reclusi in vari campi, sparsi in mezzo al deserto (il più famoso quello di Topaz nello Utah) con l'unica colpa di essere giapponesi e furono costretti a vivere in baracche di lamiera in condizioni al limite della decenza.

Eppure la loro vita tranquilla viene stravolta in poche ore, quando il padre è portato via, di notte e senza nemmeno dargli il tempo di vestirsi, in un contesto kafkiano dove nulla si sa della ragione di un tal gesto.La madre è una donna forte e orgogliosa e tira avanti fino alla comparsa di volantini in cui si annuncia che tutti i cittadini di origine nipponica dovranno trovarsi a un centro di raccolta in un certo giorno.
Quando poi la situazione si risolve il ritorno alla normalità delude, perché la normalità ricordata e rielaborata ha poco a che vedere con la realtà.
We would change our names to sound more like theirs. And if our mother called out to us on the street by our real names we would turn away and pretend not to know her. We would never be mistaken for the enemy again. A historical novel based on forced relocation and incarceration of Japanese Americans as a result of the bombing of Pearl Harbour. Julie Otsuka's grandfather was arrested as a spy and the grandmother, mother and uncle lived in the internment camp in the Utah desert. This novella is
This novella is narrated by an unnamed boy, who would be the equivalent of Otsuka's uncle, and covers both the camp, which is really a euphemism for prison, and their struggles settling back into society.This is a history lesson particularly so as it is not a narration of the Japanese Americans who had it worst, but who had it bad none the less.
It gives Otsuka's tale a special authority because she didn't choose to take a historically dark event and fill it in with all the misfortunes happening to one person or family.
The characters are not sharply drawn, and it feels like every time the author approaches any truth or insight, she scampers back to trivial surface detail.
On the large scale, the reactions one must have to having four years of life taken away and how would you re-integrate into a still racist society...while on the smaller scale, how would a society of internees organize itself and adapt, what would people do all day, how would children coming of age adapt to four years of unwarranted incarceration, etc.Wanted to like this book, but came away with very little additional insight into the internal lives of these characters, or into the historical period.
A truly heartbreaking book that opened my eyes to a part of history I did not know about before: US internment camps for Japanese-Americans during WWII.
The book exemplarily shows us the fate of a family - the father taken away by the FBI, mother and two children brought to an internment camp in the Utah desert.
It was so heartbreaking to see former relationships to friends, neighbours and in the family destroyed through an atmosphere of fear and suspicion.
(Again: very different situations, excuse my chaotic brain haha)I read this book for a university class on American identity and self-representation and must say that I really liked this short but heartbreaking read!
I loved how different this book is from many others I've read.
It's written from the point of view of several characters, whose names are never mentioned.
It almost seems like the author excluded the names to make them appear generic, as if they could be any Japanese person living in America during World War Two.This book explores the thoughts and feelings of members of one Japanese family before, during, and after they've been shipped off to a desert camp during WW2.
I was left at the end with feelings of both intrigue and satisfaction.I've always wondered why this book hasn't won a Pulitzer Prize lol.
An excellent book about the Japanese-American experience following the bombing of Pearl Harbor, told through the experiences of one unnamed family--from the father being taken away in the middle of the night for questioning by the FBI, to the mother and children's internment in a camp in Utah, and finally their return to their home in Berkeley, CA, after three years and five months, and the reception they received in the community. The last chapter is the father's 'confession.' The writing is simple, almost terse, which perfectly expresses the bleakness of their experiences.
