https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/756108.Our_Friends_from_Frolix_8
Our Friends from Frolix 8, first published by Philip K Dick in 1970 is classic PKD.
There is also an underlying absurdist Kafkaesque quality to PKD’s science fiction that is especially highlighted here, though Frolix is not one of his wilder plots.
A reader in 2013 will read past this with little notice, but when one realizes that he wrote this in the late sixties, when vinyl record players and 8 track tapes came equipped with huge, cabinet sized speaker systems, his ability to see into the future is remarkable.
Dick, Our Friends from Frolix 8I'm not sure how it stands as far as pages read, but in books read - no one is close for me to Philip K.
Dick's genius seems to be not just that of a futurist, but as someone who is able to look forward with available information, see where technology, politics, religion will converge in the future (and I'm not sure there is anyone with a better grasp of this ever) AND then explore all the moral, social, religious ramifications.
I think this PKD novel is probably under-read, under-appreciated.
A good thing, then, that Thors Provoni, a space wanderer who had left Earth a decade earlier to seek help for mankind's lot, is about to return...with a "90-ton, gelatinous mass of protoplasmic slime"; the telepathic, titular friend from Frolix 8.Swiftly moving and filled with humorous touches, simply written yet complexly plotted, alternating furious action sequences with thought-provoking discourse, "Our Friends" is yet another delightful Dick confection.
The characters were all annoying and boring and kind of stereotypical and I didn't much care for what happened to them, but thought Thors Provoni and his friend from Frolix 8 were probably the best thing of the whole story.I don't feel qualified to really write anything substantial in sci-fi as I'm so new to it and so lacking in having read any of it, but this felt really lacklustre from PKD and nothing that wonderful, unlike a couple others I've read from him.
To be sure, some editor should have sorted all of these oversights out before sending this manuscript to press - but as I understand it, it was way past the deadline by the time PDK got it done and so, I imagine, Donald A Wollheim of Ace books would have been very eager to get it out in circulation trusting all was in order.
Dick, I react in exactly the same way.
Some 200 years in the future, the earth is under the control of Willis Gram, a telepath who sits around all day in pajamas, robe, and slippers while his "New Men," geniuses with bloated heads, give him advice.
(That's probably why I read it: I needed something to keep me from thinking too much.
It worked.)Think of Dick as a hyperdrive from outer space that can take you faster and farther than you ever imagined, and leave you off somewhere where you can feel the dew on the grass with your bare toes.
I'll be honest, I didn't really get it. As a huge fan of a lot of his other work (I'll resist the urge to suggest I'm a fan of Dick). And, I wanted to love it, I really did. I just didn't get it.Maybe I'll give it another go sometime...
recenzie (în română) la https://recomandarisffh.wordpress.com...
Definitely one of Dick's better novels--maybe even top 10. Reads like a more religion-obsessed "1984". Read my full (if brief) review here: https://never-stop-reading.com/2017/0...
i love pkd, but this book runs around at the height of his "wives are horrible, pathetic shrews; the only other women are vibrant pixie sex monkeys" bullshit.the end is awesome, though.but he forgot to tell us that these "new men" have big heads until halfway through, which is kinda bullshit.
I haven't read Philip K Dick before - a somewhat embarrassing thing to admit - yet I'll certainly be reading him again, even though, I somewhat suspect, this isn't the finest example of his sci-fi genius.
What I loved most was the telepathic Council Chairman Willis Gram, a hilarious villain, whose casual cynicism and poorly conceived scheming had me laughing out loud in places, and I have no doubt that Dick intended him to be funny.
I suspected that he was by the end, but it didn't seem to matter much.
But you're seeing everything through his eyes, so you wind up feeling kind of dirty, like you're not supposed to think he's a scumbag.
If you can keep those feelings at bay and maybe care still care what happens to the guy anyway, then this is a great story.In classic PKD fashion, this one sets up a situation that's very clearly unjust, infuriatingly so.
Then he proceeds to pick at the complexities of the situation, and then when it's resolved, you're left with a lot to think about.
Sehr fesselnd und regt zum Nachdenken an -wie von Dick gewohnt.
quite a fun read at the moment, as the leader of Earth in the book - Council Chairmen Gram is very Trumpesque
[Por reseñar/leído hace poco]
Alcohol can be obtained on the black market as well as the illegal literature of the Undermen, the writings of a political prisoner called Cordon who beams his writing out via a transmitter implant, after which it is edited and sold in pamphlets illegally,Nick works in a garage for a man called Zeta, where he regrooves bald tyres to make them look new, while making them more dangerous.Cordon is a disciple of Thors Provoni, a man who set off on a ship decades before looking for help from advanced aliens.The narrative follows Appleton, a law abiding citizen ostensibly committed to following the rules of society.
I can't recall who it was (possibly Thomas Disch?), but it was in the context of a general discussion of PKD's work, and I recall the wording as, more or less, "...of course, no writer is perfect, and even Dick had his bad days.
Since Dick never edited anything, it's possible to sometimes watch him develop ideas over time through the published works, and it seems to me that a lot of what he explored in Flow...
Frolix 8 may shock some folks because the older men are all interested in a 16-year-old girl, but that's sort of par for the PKD course.
- Genderless police officers who have had all their sexual organs removed;- more insights into Philip K Dick's wandering eye, infidelity, and his obsession with young black-haired girls;- people who are so intellectually advanced they have huge bobbleheads and need neck braces;- protoplasmic aliens who become fretful and anxious when humans do that weird sleep thing once every 24 hours, where our minds 'disintegrate' into deeper interior levels and we interact with archetypes and primordial entities we've never met.
A deeper review/discussion will appear on the SFF Audio podcast where I join Jesse Willis and Paul Weimar to chat about this book.
SFF Audio Episode 406Long live Dick.
The Frolixian keeps emphasizing the fact that he/his race has no wish to invade the Earth, destroy human beings, etc.
Think about it: he's effectively eliminating the evolutionary higher beings, preventing them from invading their own planet.Or perhaps he really does have good intentions, and this is a point Dick is making: that to eliminate such entrenched power structures perpetuated by (in this case) intellectual abilities, it requires such abilities to be "re-balanced" among the people.
So, is removing all the New Men's and Unusuals' powers the only way of destroying the power structure they had?
In future Earth there are 3 types of citizens: the New Men (super-smart) and Unusuals (psychic powers) control the government.
Most citizens are Undermen and perform menial tasks.
When children are around 12 years-old, they are tested to see if they qualify as New Men or Unusuals.
The tests are rigged, and when Nick Appleton’s very bright son fails the exam, Nick decides to take up with the resistance movement.
The story zooms along with a love triangle, messy divorce, flying car (squib) chases, political assassinations and of course, our Friend from Frolix 8 – a 90-ton, 6 million-year-old alien.
Typical very cool Philip K. Dick book with rampant paranoia, people with different psychic abilities and a dark future. This is one of his best that he wrote late in his career. This is also the funniest book by him I've ever read with a few outright hilarious lines. And you won't believe what the protagonist does for a living. The only science fiction author who can come up with such bizzare ideas and yet make it all work.
I liked this because it reminds me that any "simple" and cruel solution to the problem "how should the world be run" can be undone by a "complex" solution that is at least marginally less cruel. It gives me hope.
This has all the things one wants in a PKD novel.
Another awesome book by Philip K Dick. Still so many of his books to read. I'm so glad he was was such a prolific writer.
Classic PKD!
With the exception of the last paragraph, PKD never kicks into his literary mode in this book, and it makes for painful reading all the way through. I am sorry for myself for reading it.
Not his best but still entertaining thoughtful and funny
"Nuestros amigos de Frolik 8" es una novela sencilla, donde no nos vamos a encontrar en ella con las grandes ideas que refleja en sus otros libros, sino más bien una sociedad evolucionada y alineada, solo humanos.
Sin embargo es capaz de enganchados con un acontecimiento que podría salvar a la humanidad (o por lo menos a los Antiguos) de su propia sociedad alienada a través de Provoni un humano que vuelve a la Tierra junto con un ser superior, Morgo el frolikiano.De esta forma el libro está compuesto por las perspectivas de los oprimidos a través de Nick, uno de los protagonistas y un ciudadano normal, y de los Subhombres que plantan resistencia al Gobierno.
He would have been an interesting character to follow and tell us about the world.I loved the concept of the division between New Men, Unusuals, and Old Men, their impact on the world, and relationship with each other.
And if the main character's love interest would have been chucked out.
Even less as a plaything for the power-maddened leader(s).the book could have played more with the politics and the concept of friends from Frolix 8.
Dick, but if this is your first time with him go with another book like Ubik or Valis.
In this book, there is no reality confusion or androids (popular PKD tropes), but other Dick themes are there: drug use, paranoia, the police state, aliens, telepathy, class hierarchy.
Into the second half of the book, I found myself wondering about the symbols he is employing, and which characters represent which parts of PKD, or how he sees himself?
Or, is Nick Appleton the real representation of PKD, a hapless worker tossed about by forces he can neither understand or control?
Or, is PKD actually Morgo Rahn Wilc, the immortal alien with the power to infect, control, and reshape human society?
