https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20525628-how-to-build-a-girl
We talk a lot--Caitlin is a talker--and after a while I start to notice that I'm hearing a lot of her anecdotes more than once.
But if that novelist has already worked their own story into a £250k a year career at the Times, a bestselling non-fiction book AND a TV pilot, you can't help but question their versatility.In some ways it's unfair of me to criticise Moran, who I think is an absurdly talented writer, for repeating her themes when I've just finished an Alice Munro short story collection in which every character was a mid-century woman from suburban Vancouver in an unsatisfying marriage with a father that ran a mink farm.
I want to like Dolly, but I miss Johanna.
Moran says she'll always write about a working class, chubby teenage girl from Wolverhampton because it's what she knows, but I think she injected too much of herself into Dolly/Johanna and didn't allow her character the space to breathe.
Moran hasn't written fiction since her very early success with The Chronicles of Narmo, Dolly/Johanna is an interesting character (it's so refreshing to see a female character having adventures for once!) But I think that Moran will have more success as she gets comfortable writing fiction and lets her heroine run free.
In How to Build a Girl, Caitlin Moran has created one of the funniest, most genuine and vivid characters I've read in a long time.
And her story—that of a day-dreaming young girl growing up poor in 1990's Wolverhamption (which I can only assume equates to the British suburbs) who aspires to music journalism fame by reinventing herself as 'Dolly Wilde' after a disaster on live TV—is charming and incredibly relatable.
Johanna goes through the things nearly every young adult experiences: first loves, feeling left out, identity crises, and dreaming about adulthood.
But the journey we go on in this story, at Johanna's expense, is riotously wacky and highly enjoyable.
Sometimes How to Build a Girl feels like a sugarcoated story of adolescent rebellion.Moran partially redeems herself by occasionally reminding us that Johanna is, at her core, still a gawky adolescent.
But I think this is because, ultimately, she wants the book to be a very positive and not all that harrowing story.This isn’t the story of Johanna Morrigan, who came from a council estate, fell in with hard people, did drugs and got drunk and had sex and got really fucked up.
Johanna lives on hand-me-downs, she is badly dressed, over weight and tends to talk too much and is not happy how her teenage life is working out.
She lands a job with a magazine where she’s plunged into the adult world of sex, drugs, hard liquor and grunge rock.I have not heard of Caitlin Moran before reading this novel, nor did I bother to look her up or read any reviews.
However in a surprisingly unpleasant way!There was a considerable amount of sex scene in the latter parts, which I was kind of expecting.
I want to hug this book and carry it around with me forever like a security blanket.
just like the young Caitlin, who was described in the first few chapters of Moran's earlier book.
I've not read enough young adult novels to know how Johanna/Dolly stacks up against other YA heroines.
So, four stars - right?I mean, I really loved the first third of the book, when Johanna is spending a lot of time at home with her family.
It was when she fully morphed into Dolly, and the book became all about rock bands and men, that my interest cooled.I don't know, it could be just me.
I picked this one off a friend's bookshelf during a social occasion and started browsing the opening idly, but I was soon laughing so uncontrollably that the whole evening devolved into me just reading bits out while I cried with laughter.Though this time it's fiction, the material is the usual Caitlin Moran schtick of 90s scenery, indie music, working-class Wolverhampton childhoods, exuberant self-abuse, and beautiful sentences that are studded with jokes like depth charges.
-Johanna and John Kite were great together, their friendship was sweet in a lads bantery kind of way.-Loved the nineties setting.
-Johanna's interactions and relationships with her family was the most enjoyable aspect, especially her and Krissi, they were hilarious.-Loved how Johanna went on an epic shag quest and wanted to fuck around and experiment and become a 'Lady Sex Adventurer'.
In all: this was mostly hilarious, brilliant and nostalgic but at times it was rather cringey and tedious.
Recommended for anyone who'd enjoy a vulgar British coming-of-age story with a horny-embarrassing-very-flawed teenage girl as a protagonist.
Desde las borracheras de su padre, sus problemas existenciales, o cómo se entretiene cada noche con su desodorante.Hay momentos totalmente magníficos, de arrancarte una carcajada y no parar de reír.
Hay otra cosa que me ha encantado, y es cómo Johana cree que ha cometido un error y entonces piensa que el mundo se va a acabar, que su familia se va a desintegrar y que ella tiene la culpa de todo.
Yo sí, y me ha encantado leerlo y saber que no he sido la única.Me encanta el amor que tiene por todos los de su familia, a pesar de sus numerosos defectos.
Absolutely adored it. Hilarious and dark, 'shocking' and honest. Lots of sexual content, strong language and a scene with self harm. So, you know, you've been warned.
Review later, maybe
I got hooked -- "How To Build a Girl" became 'THE' book I was reading.
All is well until Johanna starts to loose herself in her alter ego, at which point she questions where she ends and Dolly begins.This is a laugh outloud roller coaster ride through the best and worst parts about being completely embarrassed of your teenage self.Note: I liked this book...yet I would not have liked my 14 year old daughter to read it.
My own '14' year old life was nothing like this girls --I was a little square!
Although there are clear parallels - and some commercially cynical titling and structure going on - it all read new to me.Opening in 1990, 14-year-old Johanna Morrigan lives in Wolverhampton.
That it manages to get away with this is entirely due to Moran's cheerfully honest narrator, and later, to the other characters.The book follows Johanna from awkward 14-year-old to 16-year-old music reviewer "Dolly Wilde" to vaguely "built" girl of 18.
I don't think there's a person alive who doesn't feel like a fraud at some point, and How To Build A Girl is about a character who is pushing against that as she tries to ...
Reading this was like therapy, realizing all those mistakes in life weren't made for nothing but were essential in me "building" the woman I've become today.
Moran manages to cover many issues (growing up in poverty, body/self esteem issues, addiction, depression..) without the novel ever feeling heavy and her sharp wit keeps you smiling, or flat out laughing through situations that could by any other pen read as heartbreaking making, for me, this "therapy" thoroughly enjoyable.It's an amazing experience to connect heart and soul with a piece of literature.
I only wish I could have read it a decade earlier!

This was such a funny and gritty coming-of-age story about a girl who decides to reinvent herself, takes on another persona and starts working at a music magazine when she's just fifteen. I didn't get half of the references to the music scene of 1990s England, but that didn't really bother me and overall I really enjoyed the process of reading this. (Beware though, there's lots and lots of sexual content in this book, so maybe don't pick it up if you're very young or just don't like reading about stuff like that.)
They did, in a way, near the very end, but for me, maybe because I've never read anything else by Caitlin Moran and I am a guy, this novel was mainly successful, mostly enjoyable, and somewhat fascinating as a case study of mixed-up, teenage girls transitioning to our mixed-up adult world.The narrator, Johanna Morrigan, is a cheerful, fat girl without friends.
Johanna's background is working class, which makes things more difficult, like buying the music she reads about in music magazines at the library- she has to borrow records from the library, order and wait weeks for them.
I feel like the world's biggest asshole sometimes.
I so badly want to love everthing that Caitlin Moran does, but her stuff never seems to click with me.
This is a novel that feel very autobiographical, about a fourteen-year-old girl whose family struggles to make ends meet in Wolverhampton, England.
Johanna's chubby, awkward, and socially clueless.
After embarrassing herself on local television, Johanna decides to re-invent herself.
I think Moran is an intelligent, thoughtful writer with a voice that can do a lot for women in the 21st century.
I just...can't really relate to her POV as much as I feel like she expects me to.
It was also great to read about a teenage girl who really didn't have it all together, but was smart and eventually able to succeed on her own terms.
This isn't a YA book, but I wish I had had it when I was a kid and was spending my time reading the Sweet Valley High series and wondering why my life wasn't like that.
Of course, it's a bit difficult to recommend this book for kids, what with all the sex and booze, but don't kids always buy racy books and hide them from their parents?
Directo a mi lista de libros favoritos. Johanna/Dolly se va a quedar mucho tiempo conmigo. ¡Y qué maravilla es leer a Caitlin Moran!
Próbowałam tę książkę kupić chyba ze trzy razy: najpierw, jak wyszła, to chodziłam i się zastanawiałam, ale ostatecznie uznałam, że wolałabym upolować po angielsku, więc dałam sobie spokój.
Niby blisko do historii o tym, jak fikcyjna Johanna tworzy swoje alter ego, Dolly, ale "Jak zbudować dziewczynę" to jednak nie jest taka historia - tu mamy autokreację jako projekt pozytywny, autorski i DIY, produktywny.
Na okładkę trafił cytat z brata bohaterki: "Nie bądź sobą, to nigdy nie działa." Ale to bardziej skomplikowane: okazuje się, że bycie nie-sobą sprawia, że stajesz się tym, co udajesz, więc trzeba się dobrze zastanawiać, when you fake it until you make it, czy to jest ten fake, którym chcesz być.
I’m usually not at all into the genre of humorous coming of age stories and after reading the blurb I wasn’t sure if I might like this story or not.
Growing up in an area of social housing in Wolverhampton, Johanna Morrigans is an unsecure and awkward teen trying to grow up into a person everybody admires.
While being humorous, the book still managed to illustrate the difficulties of Johanna’s coming of age in a very realistic and emotional way.
I’m happy that I gave a different genre a chance and I might do it again.
Lo empecé con muchas ganas pero me ha decepcionado, básicamente el problema que he tenido es que en ningún momento he llegado a empatizar con la protagonista hasta plantearme abandonarlo pues la verdad me resultaba indiferente lo que le pudiera llegar a pasar o si iba a haber una evolución en el personaje.
Caitlin Moran has a very specific style of humour which is all her - I think I'd recognise her writing a mile off, even if I hadn't been explicitly told it was her work.The story follows Johanna Morrigan, who at the start of the story is 14 and desperate to shed her old skin and 'build a new girl' - Dolly Wilde.
Yes, it was entirely my fault that I did not look up what this was about, but my expectations ruined the reading experience for me.How To Build A Girl is, and at the same time isn't, the exact same as Morans other book.
The second half was kinda funny, but it was mostly a big sex scene.
Nothing else, just Dolly and penises.Was there a point in this book?
Why would Dollys story interest me at all?
(I made my boyfriend read it as soon as I was done, because I'd already read half the thing out loud to him in between uncontrollable bouts of LOL'ing.)I love Dolly Wilde.
Read this book if you like laughing, or coming of age stories, or girls, or boys, or sex, or music, or...what else is there?
For one, this book is too wonderful to hold a grudge, and for two, throughout it she keeps talking about "in later years," and "I would later look back on this," and blah blah blah, in such an adult, retrospective way that it definitely felt less like a YA than an adult book with a teen narrator.
It looked good so I put my name down on the request list, I figured it had to be good with 4 people ahead of me.As the book opened I had my doubts, I'm not a prude by any means, but this teen talking about masturbating in bed while her 6 year old brother was asleep next to her made me do a double take and look at my ipod.
My mouth fell open as she talked about how her brother would want her to do this because it would make her feel good.

As a Moran fan I was pretty disappointed with this, and THOSE comments about YA.Read my full review over at my blog Hannah Reads Stuff http://hannahreadsstuff.wordpress.com...
