https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/818197.Abe_Lincoln_Grows_Up
This reprint is taken from a portion of Carl Sandburg's Pulitzer Prize winning 1926 biography of our 16th President (Abraham Lincoln: The Prairie Years).
In the Publisher’s Note from this edition, it is said that since 1926, “…it has become increasingly evident that the book lives for people of all ages and kinds; but the later chapters on Lincoln’s political life are of necessity less interesting for boy and girl readers of today than the earlier ones about his own boyhood.” This segment of Sandburg’s work, from the first twenty-seven chapters of the original, depicts Lincoln’s life from birth until age nineteen.
For a child interested in Abraham Lincoln himself, this book is essential.
سپس ایب لینکلن قطعه ای به قلم جفرسون خواند: "اگر در میان ما کسی هست که آرزو دارد این اتحادیه از هم بپاشد، یا شکل جمهوری آن دگرگون شود، بگذارید چنین اشخاصی همچون مظهر امنیت جامعه به شمار آیند که در برابر خطای عقایدشان باید شکیبایی نشان داد، زیرا منطق و خرد آزاد است تا پنجه در پنجه آن عقاید بیفکند. من می دانم، به راستی، که برخی اشخاص شریف از آن می هراسند که چه بسا دولت جمهوری نیرومند نباشد، که این دولت از نیروی کافی برخوردار نیست... برعکس، من یقین دارم که نیرومندترین دولت روی زمین است."
I did a report on Lincoln when I was in high school in the 80's. I WANTED to do Reagan (I was totally Republican then) bc I didn't want to work hard to find the information, but everyone wanted Reagan and someone beat me to him, so I did Lincoln.
This is a beautifully written and illustrated book.
This slim volume is a reprint of the first twenty- seven chapters of Carl Sandburg's "Abraham Lincoln: The Prairie Years".
It is a true classic, with original illustrations by James Dougherty.
These early chapters were selected because it was felt that they would be most interesting to young readers, so the book is usually found in the youth non-fiction area.
This is also the story of America as it "grows-up" along with Abe Lincoln.
carl sandburg is antique enough that some of his stuff transcends corniness.
but a loooot of it is still corny.
still you can't stop me from reading YA biographies of abe lincoln.one thing that fascinates this about me is insistence on singing the body of abe lincoln -- he has to be socially/economically "virile" in the sense of winning at rastling, out-chopping, while still pursuing bookish interests.
works as a post facto campaign biography.
anyway good if you want to know what cows and people were dying from in 1820s indiana, and also if you are stealing texture for your own work
This was an easy book to read and to understand. I personally was not overly interesting in the topic, but for those of you who like reading about history will really enjoy this book. This book does a good job of portraying the idea that anyone, even the poorest of poor, can do anything if they set their minds to it.
You learn about a former president and what he did throughout his life. They grew up poor and it was difficult for them. He worked with his father, and tried the best he could. He became an amazing skinner. He was a young man that loved to read. it was a good story about his younger life and how the country has changed so much.
Written in Sandburg's distinct style, this was a very informative text about Abe Lincoln's childhood. I enjoyed the "stories" that were included.
Enjoyed the writing style of Carl Sandburg. A nice over-view of the younger years of Abe Lincoln.
I very much liked this book.
Unlike other biography's about Abe Lincoln that tell about him being a president this one goes deeper.
though out this book it foreshadows that he would become the president but even to the end never said it.
This book is just plainly about Abe growing up.
It starts before he is born and ends when he is an adult and leaves his family to make a life for himself.
Over all this book was really good, and even though it doesn't have as many pages as books I usually read it has a lot of good information.
There’s a wealth of detail about 19th century life on the American frontier, and there’s a lot of information about historical figures like Daniel Webster, Johnny Appleseed, and Andrew Jackson, but there’s very little information about Abe Lincoln. I have no idea why this book is so highly regarded.
In his book "Abe Lincoln Grows Up", noted author Carl Sandburg examines the heritage, birth and early years of America's 16th President.
Sandburg employes a unique style to recount the significant events of Lincoln's early life.
He presents young Abe to the reader in the context of extraneous events, notable people and western lifestyle of the time to paint a portrait of the rustic life Lincoln must have known in his youth.
As young Abe grew into adolescence, Sandburg describes Lincoln's stature, ruddy appearance and brute strength developed by his use of the ax and other farm implements as he cleared the land and helped his family eke out a living.
To Be Honest i really didn't like this book but I'm not gonna hate on it. The author did a great job but the book wasn't really as interesting to me as i thought it would be. Im Gonna give him 4 stars, though.
With his family he endures the hardships—having little-formal education, arduously settling in the wilderness, battling Native Americans, and watching strange illnesses take lives such as his mother’s—as well as the joys—enjoying a wedding feast with delicious wild game, becoming an avid-reader who is passionate for law, politics and the world (especially after watching a slave auction), and attending his two daily church services to stay reverent to his God. Abe Lincoln grows up offers a valuable story of a classic American literary theme: “success is the result of persevering in the face of obstacles.” The novel is sure to delight its intended young-adult audience with its realistic and fascinating old-fashioned context, which is populated with prominent historical figures of the time, (namely, Andrew Jackson and Napoleon Bonepart).
Sandburg's writing exquisitely captures the spirit of the nation during Lincoln's childhood years.
This book covers Abe's life until he leaves his parents at 19 years of age.Westward expansion was front and center, Lincoln's own father moving them several times from Kentucky to Indiana and Illinois.
This brought a higher standard of living and expectations on Abe. At the same time, his father looked down on "eddicatin."2.
Taking cargo on flatboats down the Mississippi to New Orleans showed him the wide world and the slave markets.Sandburg subtly foreshadows Lincoln's later political life: the teenager practicing speeches, delighting in stories, and always reading and writing.

This version reads like a juvenile version and is a quick read of 222 pages.
However, it is rewarding for its portrayal of early Allegeny Americana.
Not surprisingly, Sandburg is intrigued by the words and idioms of the frontier as well as their songs.
A short vignette of Andrew Jackson is included, suggesting his influence and inspiration for young Lincoln.
It doesn't hurt that much is made of Lincoln's reading and love of books.
There is the poet's sensitivity to nature, wilderness and words exhibited in his prose and narration.
Its age is reflected in the use of the N word when referring to slaves.
I finished this wonderful book.
Early years of Abraham Lincoln growing up in midwest US in its midgrowth as a nation, with log cabins on one hand and slavery on other on southern plantations. Illinois and Kentucky were border states, often with families divided on the issue, neighbours and communities deeply divided. Lincoln grew up around the border in Illinois and went on to be the silent great man whose great speech post US civil war and bringing in emancipation was then derided for being not long enough, not flowery enough. Now it is a classic memorised by children of his nation.
We just finished reading this book. I really liked it because it's about one of my favorite CHRISTAN men in history. It starts from when he was born to before he went to New Salem. There's is also another book about him that we just finished too that is about him in New Salem. I love the state of IL and what makes it ten times better is tha it's the land of Lincoln. :D HEHE
Abe Lincoln one of the best presidents of all time. Carl Sandburg has made a some insight to Lincoln's childhood. It wasn’t the greatest book, mostly because it doesn't always talk about Lincoln, but about people who Lincoln talked about. When it does focus on Lincoln, it teaches you about parts of his life you might not know about, like what happened to him during his childhood. - JH
BiographyPulitzer PrizeMiddle school studentsThe history Of Abraham Lincoln that makes his live a little personable.Easy reading for middle school students who need to write a biblography for a classroom assignment.This book keeps your interested, so that you want to finish it withot stopping. Very factual with detailes to thing that may be new to you from the very begining.
i read this as a child and it inspired a lifelong fascination with lincoln. i found his complete 5 volume set of the war and prairie years on ebay will try and give it a go in the next couple of months. lincoln grows up is a charming book i would recommend to anyone, especially young readers. i actually bought my copy years ago in the little gift shop at sandburg's home in NC.
A great read that gives us information on one of the united states presidents. This book tells of Abe Lincoln's life as a young child. From reading this book I now have a better understanding of young Lincoln's life.
This book follows Abe Lincoln and how his life was as a young kid and the many struggles he faced daily. In my opinion, this book is an interesting read but it definitely is not for everyone. I think it would not be of much interest for someone who doesn't enjoy history.
I learned a lot of cool stories about Abraham Lincoln from reading this. Most of it is very interesting and easy to read. I enjoyed it!
Good information, but a bit dry.
Loved this as a kid. Turned me into a Lincoln and civil war fanatic!
X3
I did a video review of this that can be watched here:http://hmweasley-blog.blogspot.com/20...
