https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/426504.Ficciones
My love for philosophical literature began with this author.
“Con alivio, con humillación, con terror, comprendió que él también era una apariencia, que otro estaba soñándolo.” What a beautiful line to end a story.
So, this is a useless, too subjective review because I absolutely love Borges' writing.
Despite the fact he makes me feel plain stupid, most of the times.JLB and his blindness, nice oxymoron.
He created universes, troubled authors, fake books, never-ending labyrinths and a unique way of writing about all that and more.He is one of those great writers that makes you feel like everything has already been written.May 05, 14* Also on my blog.
Borges looked inside the swirling mind of man and made a maze of it.
He understands the foibles of man and his maze offers diverse commentaries on such things.
There is anger there, under the charm and the playful games; anger at the systems of man and the futility of certain behaviors, at the machinery of government.
There is sadness there too, at the thought of those who would treat such mazes as homes, at the machinations of fate.
Ficciones tells stories about stories: each story is about the perspective of mankind, the symbols this species clings to, the metaphors they attempt to turn into living, breathing reality.
To me Fictions by Jorge Luis Borges is the ultimate anthology of short stories… I find in it everything I ever want to find in literature: reality and surreality, realness and surrealness, fables and parables, legends and myths, mysticism and philosophy, history and fantasy and an endless enigma.I owe the discovery of Uqbar to the conjunction of a mirror and an encyclopedia.
The event took place about five years ago.Yes, use a combination of mirrors, labyrinths and books and you too will be capable to live an idyllic, fabulous and mysterious life whenever you wish… With one quick look, you and I perceive three wineglasses on a table; Funes perceived every grape that had been pressed into the wine and all the stalks and tendrils of its vineyard.
“Blind to all fault, destiny can be ruthless at one's slightest distraction.”  Reading Jorge Luis Borges is a bewildering experience and a challenge all in one. There is no logically understanding the mazes Borges creates, but that is what fantastical-realism is all about. Ficciones is a labyrinth, beautiful and witty, of ideas and feelings that mock and conquers the reader.Borges can speak for himself, who am I to explain his brilliance and imagination? “When it was proclaimed that the Library
Reading Jorge Luis Borges is a bewildering experience and a challenge all in one.
At that time a great deal was said about the Vindications: books of apology and prophecy which vindicated for all time the acts of every man in the universe and retained prodigious arcana for his future.
The Vindications exist (I have seen two which refer to persons of the future, to persons who are perhaps not imaginary) but the searchers did not remember that the possibility of a man's finding his Vindication, or some treacherous variation thereof, can be computed as zero.” 
It's clear to see why Jorge Luis Borges is regarded as one of the 20th century's most inventive writers, and Ficciones is a collection of small stories that are on a grand scale, but my overall problem was going through three or four at a time and finding them hard to digest, jumping from one to another just didn't work for me.
And only read the last few days apart giving me a chance to fully think about about them, this worked so much better, but still left me feeling a bit dumbfounded.
Metaphor              Infinity         Sophistry             Penumbra           Symbolic                LABYRINTH                 Heresiarch              Prefigured          Philology              Nihilism                                        Maze             AllegoricalThis may not be the prettiest word cloud ever constructed, but I think it’s a fair representation of the Ficciones experience. Much of the time spent trying to solve the stories’ puzzles
It’s hard to describe these stories to anyone who hasn’t read them, and harder still to back what I’m saying by way of example.
Instead what I’ll attempt is a bit of Borges-inspired logic that may not have been the exact point of his stories, but occurred to me as a result of reading them.If we take as a given that time is infinite, then every possible set of realities would have a chance to play out.
In one story he imagined a near infinite library containing books with every possible letter combination.
The peer pressure from my intellectually superior friends finally shamed me into reading this (as I had no Borges under my belt).
This is a collection of 17 of his "best" short stories, held together merely by the thread that they are like nothing else you've ever read or even thought about.
Not every story is perfection, but all are surprising, irritating, challenging and somehow rewarding.
"Funes, the Memorious" about a man cursed with perfect memory, and "The South", a somewhat autobiographical and deceptively simple narrative that is actually an experiment in structure.Borges uses very direct, sparse but extremely detailed language.
Borges added the final three stories to Ficciones in the 1956 edition.Part One: The Garden of Forking Paths“Tlön, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius” ― The narrator tells how his search for information about Uqbar, mentioned to him by a friend and found in only one edition of an encyclopedia, leads him to Uqbar’s literature about the imaginary world of Tlön, with its fantastical culture steeped in psychological and philosophical concepts.
The brain cells, by the way, were completely engaged by this tale, which was complex and layered enough to make me think, but didn’t lose me in a labyrinth of difficult-to-grasp ideas.Repeated labyrinth imagery, scenes of deception, and challenges to our perceptions of what is real echo throughout the stories of Ficciones.
Los relatos en este libro me hicieron pensar, a tal grado que llegué a darme cuenta de que no era una buena opción leerlos antes de irme a dormir porque me quedaba dándoles vueltas por un buen rato.
Aunque entiendo que para algunos puede ser frustrante, a mí me provoca una admiración tremenda.
Sin duda cada uno de los cuentos de este volumen merecen ser leídos más de una sola vez y poniendo mucha atención.Directo a mi pila de libros que volveré a leer.
I met Arkadiusz Juhász when he threw a crust of bread at my head and laughed in that way that he does.
[Fill page one with nonsense that isn't all that important to the story, feels otherworldly, and serves only to offset and confuse the reader].
At dinner Arkadiusz Juhász described the labyrinth in his mind.
Arkadiusz Juhász felt disjointed from the world and wandered and time passed with little result.
Arkadiusz Juhász has written a collection of essays to describe the effect of his travels.
Arkadiusz Juhász confessed to me that he was really a war criminal.
Arkadiusz Juhász died of a brain hemorrhage in 1951.
Έδιτ 1Στις "Μυθοπλασίες" ο Μπόρχες μας οδηγεί στον μαγικό του κόσμο και η διαδρομή περνάει μέσα από λαβύρινθους, καθρέφτες, ψευδεπίγραφα και μαθηματικούς γρίφους!Κάθε διήγημα είναι και μια πνευματική άσκηση για τον αναγνώστη.
Να ανατρέξεις σε βιβλιοθήκες και να ψάξεις για την θρησκεία, την φιλοσοφία, την μυθολογία… Κι αυτό για μένα είναι μια από τις μεγαλύτερες επιτυχίες των "μπορχεσιανών" διηγημάτων!5/5...ΥΓ: Πως να μην δώσει κανείς 5 αστεράκια σε ένα βιβλίο που ξεκινάει με συζήτηση του συγγραφέα με τον φίλο του Μπίοι Κασάρες για την χαμένη πόλη Uqbar που δεν υπάρχει σε καμιά εγκυκλοπαίδεια παρά μόνο σε έναν χαμένο τόμο ενός παλιού εγγράφου...***Εξαιρετική η μετάφραση του Αχιλλέα Κυριακίδη
Todavía no supero este libro. Creo, el mejor de todos los libros de cuentos Borgianos. Todavía no supero que los habitantes de tlön no crean en el espacio y su lenguaje este compuesto de una sucesión infinita de verbos. Todavía no supero la concepción de un empresa como la Pierre Menard, que buscas escribir el Quijote, me rindo a ayudarle en lo que pueda. Todavía no supero la daga, ni los laberintos, ni los tigres, ni el sur, ni las bibliotecas, ni al otro...Todavía no supero a Borges.
Unlikely images and situations are woven into a richly complex tapestry that arouses questions of identity and the self, of reality and the possibility for dreams.Intellectual Labyrinths , time, space, infinity, memory, mirrors (Borges delights in the multiplicity of things; he is fascinated with mirrors because they multiply) and libraries are some of the principal themes in his works.
Vargas Llosa says that Spanish was suddenly "purified," "intellectualized" by the inimitable prose style of Borges.Among his stories, my personal favorites are, “The Aleph”, “Garden of Forking Paths”, “Death and the Compass”, “Pierre Menard”, “The secret Miracle” and “The Circular Ruins”.
Cleverly wrought essays on Swedish scholars and secret societies planting false information and a lot of babble – I clearly get the impression that Borges never minded hearing himself speak, and being spoken of.
The best short stories are the ones set free of time and space, stories that easily could weave into each other if they were allowed to, they are dreamlike labyrinths of the mind.
3 stars for too much “Listen to me I´m a genius”.
Rounded up to 4 stars.
“You who read me, are You sure of understanding my language?” Jorge Luis Borges, “The Library of Babel” Even though I read Borges’s  “Collected Fictions”  in Spanish, my native tongue, I have to confess I didn’t understand half of it. Presumptuous of me to think I would. Famous for being the founder of postmodernist literature and influenced by the work of fantasists such Edgar Allan Poe and Franz Kafka, whom I adore, I was naive enough to assume I would be able to untangle Borges’s labyrinthin
Jorge Luis Borges, “The Library of Babel” Even though I read Borges’s 
I was also deceived by the apparent simplicity of the tales which turned out to be complex, condensed and thought provoking meditations about philosophical and existential issues.Borges’s enormous erudition, which might be appealing to others, worked the other way round for me, leaving me mostly frustrated by the multitude of literary allusions from cultures around the globe which I struggled to connect with the meaning of his surrealist inventions.
This collection of short stories is a great introduction to Borges' fictional universe. At times his stories read like a non-fiction article or book review, but Borges sort of sneaks up on you and gives a tug at your conception of what constitutes real versus imaginary.I would say that some of the stories are more engaging than others, but that's just a matter of personal interest. They are all worth reading, and recommended, especially to those who enjoy magic realism, fantasy, and sci-fi books.
Las que a mi mas me gustaron fueron: Tlön, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius; Las ruinas circulares; La biblioteca de Babel; El milagro secreto; Tres versiones de Judas.Todas empiezan ligeras y se tornan algo confusas conforme les para después tener sentido al final, si las llegas a entender, yo no las entendí completamente todas, y creo que por eso ayer que lo termine me dejo con una sensación rara, como de limbo.
No se si exista pero este libro seria bueno releerlo en una versión anotada por alguien que capte todo lo que hay que captar.
Autor de nicho, lectura impostergable. Volveré a Borges.
His short stories with his labyrinthine themes and language have been explored and analyzed to the point that he has been named one of the pioneers of post-modernist fiction.
His fabulistic stories with strange fictional realms and complex social systems and unusual metaphors had a significant influence on the Latin American magical realism movement.Ficciones is a collection of short stories, and is considered to be his most popular anthology.
The stories explore many themes of existentialism, creationist philosophy, fantastical realms and universes governed by strange theological and sociological systems, satirical reviews of fictional works and many more such unusual works of fiction.
Since January of this year, I have already finished 100 books and I never had experienced delving into a mind as scintillating as that of Jorge Luis Borges, the Spanish author of this strangely amazing (or amazingly strange) book - FICCIONES which means FICTIONS.To understand the book, you really have to slow down and reflect on each phrase.
Jorge Luis Borges uses familiar words and phrases but they are often stated in confusing way so much like his "forking paths" with the thoughts going into different directions that you have to choose where you want to go or believe.His imagination is spectacular and limitless.
Mas, estranhamente, também me sentia cada vez mais enfeitiçada com o livro, quer pelos temas abordados, quer pela forma como Borges o faz.
Tenho lá eu competência para isso!(universo religião livros escritores labirintos sonho realidade Ficções…)Entretanto, já comprei mais uns quantos “Borges”.
Tenho esperança de que no próximo a ler – O Aleph – me sinta, pelo menos, com cérebro de mosca…Nota: Isto de pontuar um livro com estrelas, por vezes, é muito complicado.
Leer a Borges requiere de un lector activo, comprometido con su prosa, debe ser erudito, en historia, filosofía como también en mitos y leyendas antiguas. Me parece un libro complejo pero que no me ha dejado indiferente, su manera de narrar, su léxico y la forma en que trata el tiempo y el espacio, lo irreal y la realidad, me hace pensar que en la persona de Borges se materializa la eternidad.
Yet other commentators reject this idea, claiming, perhaps rightly, that as the footnote does not specify a title, or suggest a plot or theme, the novel referred to in Ficciones is not El Matrero.Even after a more extensive internet search I could not turn up any information relating to a writer called Pierre Menard, except in reference to the Borges’ story that has already been discussed.
Therefore, I decided to reread The Library of Babel, which, as already noted, Renaldo Compostella claimed contained the footnote that first makes mention of a novel by Jorge Luis Borges.
Like Quiroga and Cortazar, he's been anthologized so often that one can find the same short story in several collections, thus making it seem as though you've read them all.I tend to like "Artificios" more than "Ficciones" b/c the stories in "Ficciones" are less what I consider short stories, and more Borges positing his new ideas/concepts.
That's why I prefer "Jardin de los senderos que se bifurcan" and the stories from "Artificios"; they're more in the line of actual stories, that do contain a plot but also posit some of those same ideas and concepts (the way, for example, "La muerte y la brujula" is similar to "Jardin" in its structure, a variation on the same theme, if you will).
Ο Μπόρχες με πήγε σε μέρη όπου δεν έχω ξαναπάει. Πήγα μια βόλτα σε έναν από τους αμέτρητους λαβύρινθους της φαντασίας του. Θέλω να επιστρέψω στις ιστορίες του ξανά και ξανά, σαν σε κυκλικό βρόχο, για να δω το επόμενο παιχνίδι της φαντασίας διαβάζοντας ξανά την ίδια ιστορία! Γιατί κάθε ανάγνωση χαρίζει και άλλη απόλαυση!
Ni siquiera voy a puntuar este libro, porque no sabría cómo hacerlo.Hay historias que me han gustado mucho ("Tlön, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius", "El acercamiento de Almotásim", "La forma de la espada" o "La muerte y la brújula") y otros (como "La biblioteca de Babilonia") que no son ni cuentos ni tampoco podríamos calificarlos como divertimentos (algo que sí es, por ejemplo, "Pierre Menard, autor del Quijote"), sino desvaríos de Borges sobre la ficción, la filosofía o la realidad.
De hecho, hay dos cuentos cuya premisa me pareció interesante ("La lotería de Alejandría" y "Funes el memorioso"), pero que luego sentí se desinflaban por esa querencia del autor por divagar sobre sus temas recurrentes.
Ne kitaptı be! Buraya ne yazsam eksik kalacak, o yüzden denemiyorum bile. Sadece, muhteşemdi.
Con queste premesse, penso sia arduo per chiunque descrivere un libro che parla benissimo da solo, pur chiamando a sé, per forza di cose, una valanga di commenti, riflessioni, chiarimenti; quanto meno, questo è ciò ch'è accaduto a me, che nel leggerlo in modo lento e ponderato ho riempito gli spazi bianchi delle pagine con domande e suggestioni; in gran parte dei casi, appunti, frasette che tentavano di riassumere il riassumibile, per paura di perdere il filo del discorso; per timore di non trovare l’uscita del labirinto.
(A total of twenty-one times; 21/1 = 21.) The first week, I read the book in a different mood per day.
The handwriting of this book was the very same as another author: Vladimir Nabokov.This realization set me on the right path; I’ll spare you the sundry details of my research.
It appears that Jorge Luis Borges doesn’t exist.
The conceptual pieces are commonly guessed to be James’s; the absurdist stories the work of Eliot; Nabokov is often hypothesized to be a kind of redactor and scribe to the project.
Non c’è nulla di concreto nei racconti contenuti in questo volume: il simbolismo e l’astrazione permeano ogni storia, a tal punto che la realtà fantastica sembra più vera della realtà stessa.L’emozione che ha suscitato in me la lettura di questi racconti è stata senz’altro l’ammirazione di fronte al Genio che scrive storie con una forza immaginifica insuperabile, che trascina il lettore in un mondo che sembra privo di logica ma che invece trova nella creatività dell’intelletto umano una logica superiore.
Un breve racconto giallo che è, a mio parere, perfetto nella struttura .Al termine di questa lettura sono arrivata alla conclusione che è un libro da rileggere più e più volte, che va meditato e riflettuto.
