https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1589878._
Could not put it down. Breathtaking story-telling!This was one of the first full-length novels I ever read in a foreign language. It helped me learn how to let go of my English thoughts, think in Chinese, and follow my imagination into another world.
A must read. The kind of book that you would flip open and never willing to put down.
a.k.a. Sia-tiauw-eng-hiong a.k.a. Pendekar Memanah Rajawali a.k.a. The Legend of the Condor HeroesThis, along with the other two parts of the Jin Yong's Trilogy, is one of my favorite books ever. It follows the story of the good-hearted, thick-headed, righteous Kwee Ceng (Guo Jing), along with his lover, the quick-witted and mischievous Oey Yong (Huang Rong). The story is set in the Southern Song period, when the Jin dynasty is pressing from the north, and later on the Mongols also threatens the Chinese.It is difficult
One of the most popular martial art fiction or wuxia in Indonesia, too! It was translated from the Cantonese Chinese "Sia Tiau Enghiong" into Indonesian "Memanah Burung Rajawali". Its sequels especially the story of Yo Ko "Pendekar Rajawali Sakti" established Jin Yong (or Chin Yung in Indonesia) as the master of wuxia or "cerita silat" in Indonesia.
I picked up this novel as an introduction to wuxia literature.
But overall this book was the most purely entertaining story I've picked up in a while.
The characters are vivid enough that despite no knowledge of Chinese I almost never struggled to distinguish them, and the adventures, despite their length and recurring cast, never feel repetitious.
Villains are villainous but not caricatured; heroes are admirable but not without flaws.
The tone is generally lighthearted, but serious themes pop up and rarely feel forced.
If fun and good-natured action are your criteria, The Legend of the Condor Heroes is highly recommended.
The journey continues with me revisiting this book after 15 years (much like the events in many Jin Yong novels).Despite already knowing the gist of the plot, I was consistently delighted by the way he uses unassuming details to reveal the next event.
But Chinese is naturally a poetic language; anyone who has been studying it for more than a couple years will learn to use the 成语 (idioms) that cram pictures' worth of literary meaning into four words.
Jin Yong is a master at using lots of idioms and sayings with that "olden day" flavour to recreate the aplomb of heroes in that romanticised time.
Even though his life starts in Mongolia, his dreams of revenging his fathers death in mainland China cease to remind itself.
So once he turned eighteen he and his tutors left Mongolia to get back to China and Guo Jings adventures begins.
The fun part doesn't start till he meets Huang Rong.
Together they meet wushu legends and enemies that they in one or another way learn wushu from and before anyone could believe it, Guo Jings techniques is one of the best in the known world.I find it difficult to narrow this book down and translate all the wushu culture and names.
Wonder how the English trans will be :))
Dung nhi Dung nhi Dung nhilàm sao quên được hai tiếng Dung nhi :D

Yêu thích Hoàng Dung vậy mà kẻ thù là Đông Tà Hoàng Dược Sư thì căm hận đến tận xương nhào vô báo lấy báo để bất kể sống chết, còn là Tây Độc Âu Dương Phong thì lại cứ một hai Âu Dương Tiên Sinh nói thế nào cũng có phần cả nể.
Chắc lúc đó lòng căm thù nó đã vơi bớt đi nhiều.Bởi vậy mới có trường đoạn tự vấn lương tâm "Sống để làm gì?
Biết võ công để làm gì?
Ủa vậy chết rồi thì ngay từ đầu mẹ ta sinh ra ta để làm gì?
The most enjoyable Wuxia novel I've ever read... or any fantasy novel for that matter. The first sequel is probably better but nothing compares to the fun of this novel. The characters from the Nine Fingered Divine Beggar to the Eastern Heretic to Zhou Botong are among the most unique and brilliant I've ever encountered. Whether you're a fantasy fan or a martial arts fan and you haven't discovered this genre, don't waste another minute. Dive in!
This series of novels by Jin Yong includes four books, and it has been one of my favorite series so far.
There is a variety of fight scenes in each novel featuring unbelievable Kong Fu techniques.
It was wartime between the Jin and the Song dynasty.
The story was based on how Guo Jing grew from a teenage boy with out a father to a master of martial arts.
After Guo Jing mastered different kong fu techniques, he lead warriors and soldiers to resist the Jin. From reading this book, you can see how spectacular Chinese Kong Fu is, deeply learn about Chinese culture.
The best wuxia novel bar one (okay - maybe RotCH). Lots of people don't like Guo Jing as a MC but for me he's completely absorbing. You want him to do well, and his (not modesty but) cluelessness as to how powerful he is is what makes him most endearing.
當我閱讀金庸先生筆下的《射鵰英雄傳》這部名著時，終於深深地感受到「愛不釋手」的滋味。這本書更令我從主角郭靖身上學到了很多東西，其中一個就是我們應該盡忠報國，不論外族給了我們多少好處，我們還是應該對國家忠心耿耿。就像郭靖那樣，雖然成吉思汗對他母子非常好，又讓他跟自己的兒子結為兄弟，與自己的女兒結為夫婦，使郭靖在蒙古族中享有崇高的地位。但當他得知蒙古有意侵宋，便立即捨棄一切繁華富貴，以拚死的心態保護故鄉祖國。另外，更令我明白到「以勤補拙」的道理，例如郭靖在缺乏天分的情況下，用不放棄地經過艱苦的磨練，以頂絕的武功以取得大成，反映出：要取得成功是絕無捷徑的。
射雕英雄傳，一本我在暑假愛上的武俠小說。金庸以豐富的詞語，精鍊優雅的文筆寫下一段令人不禁追看下去的故事。金庸詳細而不累贅的描寫，令書中的角色栩栩如生，人物個性十分明顯。特別喜歡書中的《華山論劍》，東邪，西毒，北丐和郭靖，彷彿在我面前在比武，他生動的描寫使這場面真實極了，非常值得我去學習他的寫作技巧。
這本書十分好看,情節十分緊張令我愛不擇手,不能停止閲讀,而主角有：郭靖，黃容，穆念慈，楊康，黃藥師等。郭靖從小就跟隨江南七俠學習武功，之後他便遇到容兒和她爹，但是她爹不喜歡郭清，因此郭靖不斷修煉武功，最終他和洪七公與黃藥師一起參加武林比賽，但是歐陽𡶶的實力太強了，三人不敵。最後，容兒用妙計勝出。我十分喜歡看金融先生的作品，我絕對會推薦給大家看！
Masterpiece!
Truyện Kim Dung đều có cái thú vị nhưng đọc 1 bộ Thiên Long Bát Bộ là đủ
冲突基本靠脾气暴躁、靠不由分说的误解。四册下来，前两册好看，三册四册开始有点疲倦。
还没过瘾书就写完了。想要黄蓉这样的女朋友。
看完這本金庸的著作後，我從此故事中的男主角郭靖學會了「俠義」是甚麼。郭靖在大漠出生，他從小就明白了「俠義」的意思。例如：在他六岁时，他勇敢的保護草原英雄哲別、在攻打撒馬爾罕城放走住在城內的百姓、與黃蓉堅守襄陽城。另外，我從郭靖身上領悟到熟能生巧的道理。雖然然他天資愚鈍，但他勤練武功，最後成為武功天下第一。我們應該好好向郭靖學習他優良的品德。
Đọc không dứt ra được, quá xuất sắc. Bảo sao cứ mấy năm lại được làm lại, dù vẫn không lột tả hết được cái hay của truyện. Phần hay nhất trong Xạ điêu tam bộ khúc.
漂亮。
Anh hùng xạ điêu - tập đầu tiên trong Xạ điêu tam bộ khúc.
金庸的书。不同的年龄看，有不同的滋味。
《射雕英雄傳》的劇情非常刺激，緊張，作者金庸把故事中的人物描寫得好，大家都有鮮明的性格特點。雖然一些角色看似不太重要的，但他們其實和主角們有很大的關係，所以我非常佩服作者能夠把故事連結一起，令讀者可以慢慢地解開謎題。
Who would have thought that things would turn out like this?Guo Jing finally understood the meaning of his strength (which makes him look more mature and smarter, haha), the affair between him and Huazheng had been finally settled (although a life must be sacrificed), how the Meeting at Mount Hua suddenly didn't look that appealing, the encounter with Mu Nianci and her son, then everything about this matter with Mongolia, especially Toulei and Genghis Khan, and how Ouyang Feng's fate shows that one always reaps what s/he sows, as well as shows how greed will always lead to disaster, either for oneself or people around.This is indeed a very long and beautiful journey.
I give this book 5 stars because, despite the inconsistent translation (since there are more than one person translating this work) and the slow pace of the story, it is absolutely my taste.Thank you, Jin Yong.
Thank you very much.
I found an online translation of this and just couldn't get in to it.
I think part of the problem may be have been reading it online in a strange format rather than reading it as a book, but it didn't do much for me.
I found reading about the kungfu fights rather than watching them to be quite difficult as it is such a visual medium to me.
When my Chinese gets good enough I would like to try reading this in the original.
One of the things that made me sad in Beijing was seeing ALL the kungfu novels in the shops and not being able to read them.
It's about tow good friend Mr.Guo and Mr.Yang,they are kill by some bad peoples from others country.
