https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/158446.Captain_Blood
9/10Captain Blood by Rafael Sabatini is a riveting swashbuckling adventure novel which is very vivid in its depiction of pirates and their life at sea.
It is not only a tale of misfortune, betrayal, treachery, and deceit but also of love, courage, allegiance, and friendship.
Blood was a medical man by vocation who eventually, under desperate circumstances, turned into a pirate - that too a gentleman pirate.
And from Tortuga start the the great adventures of the Captain Blood, which in no time makes him the greatest and the most famous Pirate (or rather a gentleman pirate) who has ever sailed the seas.Highly recommended!
Old School, feel good, swashbuckling derring do, performed with style and panache, and featuring a larger-than-lifer whose battle savvy and intrepidity are matched only by his integrity, his keen intellect, and his imperturbable grace.  Captain Peter Blood...is the MAN...and the myth, and the legend, and the whole kit and caboodle, and he deserves VIP seating within the inner sanctum of literature’s most memorable heroic characters.No wonder Errol Flynn became a star playing this singular figure
Captain Peter Blood...is the MAN...and the myth, and the legend, and the whole kit and caboodle, and he deserves VIP seating within the inner sanctum of literature’s most memorable heroic characters.No wonder Errol Flynn became a star playing this singular figure.
PLOT SUMMARY:Set in the 17th century, during the reign of James II, Peter Blood, Irish physician and former solider, is wrongfully convicted of treason for providing medical attention to a rebel combatant.
Blood never plays the patsy simply because he’s the “good guy,” he never makes you question his honor, he never makes you feel a twinge of uncertainty at the rightness of his cause.
One bright day of the seventeenth century a former soldier turned physician Peter Blood was minding his own business taking care of his flowers.
Thanks to the King's need for cheap labor force in the Caribbean Peter Blood and some other unlucky people went straight there as slaves instead of gallows.
What is the first thing that comes to mind if we think seventeenth century and Caribbean at the same time?
This is a classic pirate book, make no mistake about it.
The actual rating would be closer to 4 stars than 5, but I still remember the impression the book made on me when I read in during my teens.
Remembering my first read of this book, I know I was stunned a bit as starting the book I imagined that I’ll be thrown into the harsh sea battle times from the very start and instead I found a kind and calm gentleman, smoking a pipe and tending his flowers, who enjoys his life as a simple doc.
I’m not a great fan of romance, especially old-fashioned dragging one, so I had a couple eye-rolling moments when reading the passages about the eternal love.
But I know that this book was written quite a long time ago, when kick ass heroines weren’t very widely incorporated into books :)Narrative.
Many of you who've read some of my reviews know that there is another Sabatini book that is a long time favorite of mine.
The book was not at the time it was first written Sabatini's most popular though it did ride the success he was currently enjoying (having been popular in Europe for a while and then being "discovered" by Americans).
It follows the general story only collapsing one main plot point for time.) Today the movie still shows up regularly on Turner Classic Movies and is available to buy.I think it's fair here to say that I can't recommend this book too highly.
This is definitely a book to read if a reader likes pirate/swashbuckling novels.
The setting, characters, scenes, and dialogue took me back to the 17th century in a time of political turmoil and wild seas and locales where the wars between countries play out in a very personal matter.
And because of that, I rooted for him.The one part that didn't sit right with me as I read, was how a distinction was made between Peter Blood and the English captives sold into slavery and the negro slaves.
Rafael Sabatini is an author who writes this type of story well, so I'll be back to read more of his books.
he has the misfortune to lose his liberty for doing the right thing, and his heart to the niece of the reprehensible man ostensibly made his owner, a woman never wooed because she was too companionable and frank with men.
he stands by his word and turns himself inside out to protect the men who serve under him and the woman he loves.
to satisfy his unattainable lady's ideas of honour, he tries to give up the pirate life that was the only option left him, only to find that men pursuing outwardly honourable professions are in fact privateers in sheep's clothing.
Blood and his crew were creative and interesting...on the other hand, this was also a love story, wrapped in an action adventure tale of pirates and privateers.
Even as the human touch that told him "the right thing to do is treat this wounded man despite his being a rebel against the Crown and a criminal," showed that Blood's moral compass had, at least once upon a time, been set on ideals that came from a higher power than Man's basic instincts or whim of King and crony.
When he and the other slaves escape the sadistic Colonel Bishop, they are desperate and adapt to their new life.Spoiler's alert!This is pure entertainment, and I really like the main protagonist for his sharp-witted, arrogant and ironic manner and the way he treats his pompous superiors and other people of high rang who think themselves important.
Either Nassau has it wrong, or Sabatini had a strong imagination, because most pirates in the book, except the main characters, seemed morally detached.
This reminds me of Edmund Dantès in The Count of Monte Cristo.What I like best in this adventure novel is that Peter Blood maintains his honor, dignity and moral throughout the book, despite being treated unjustly, and that his strong-minded persistence pays off.
When I picked up this book, I originally failed to make the connection with the 1935 classic black and white flick with Errol Flynn.
Afforded special treatment due to his skills as a physician, Blood and his fellow slaves escape and take up as Buccaneers - although not before Blood falls in love with the beautiful Arabella, the niece of his owner.
The remainder of the story basically recounts Blood's adventures as he is hounded by both the Spanish and the English.
It also, unfortunately, deals with the 'does he/she love me' relationship between Blood and Arabella.
( In a good way.)Not going into a huge review.
( I also believe the book is based on actual events..or loosely based..not sure, not a history major) Great history, not overdone, excellent battles and strategy and everythng had logic..made sense.Romnace peeps: (view spoiler)[Anyhoo the only negative from a romance reader stand point is that I personally HATE when the romance has "misunderstandings" ugggh it drove me insane!!
I also hated that they didn't clear the misunderstanding until like the last 3 pages!
nothing spelled out, some things hinted at but could be taken in different ways.
This is a swashbuckling tale, and if I'd been a teenager reading it in the 1920s, when it was written, it would have gotten at least four stars.I have to dock it, however, for the persistent casual racism about the "negroes" with whom he is enslaved, and for the comments about anyone not English. It's mentioned as extraordinary that his father was not a drunkard, because he was Irish, for example.This novel was made into a movie in 1935, starring Errol Flynn and Olivia de Havilland, which is great fun.
Reading Scaramouche is one of those odd experiences where a genre book really surprises you with its depth and complexity.
His depressive brooding is not as interesting as Scaramouche's wry frustration, in part because it's less active.In both stories, the movements of the plot are dictated by misunderstandings, things left unsaid, assumptions made too quickly.
The world is not complete, it is a single view, with few insights or surprises, which is the danger of any genre piece that never strays from the bare bones of its form.It's an exciting enough bit of adventure, with some thoughtfulness and characters who are not simple cardboard cliches, but in the end, there isn't much to it.
My GR friend Evgeny so kindly informed that yes, this is the inspiration for the Errol Flynn adventure: Captain Blood. Sourcing my copy, now.
My favourite book.
The language inside is easily as beautiful and inspiring as the appearance of the book itself.
I’ll quote a passage.”Open the history of the past at whatsoever page you will, and there you shall find coincidence at work bringing about events that the merest chance might have averted.
Indeed, coincidence may be defined as the very tool used by Fate to shape the destinies of men and nations.” I’ll admit it took me a little while to get used to the voice of the author and the vocabulary he used.
However, once I found that voice it was almost impossible for me to put the book down.
A swashbuckling tale full of adventure and romance in the traditional sense, well worth being read alongside Kidnapped and Ivanhoe. I probably would have given it 5 stars if it hadn't taken me over a year to actually finish. That's mostly on me, though. What's more to say? It was fun. It was adventurous. It was classic. It is worth reading. I found the last third particularly hard to put down. Very engaging and suspenseful!
In this tale of swashbuckling adventure, Peter Blood goes from being a doctor to a slave to a pirate captain and beyond. It is the measuring stick against which other pirate novels are measured.So why did I only give it a three? It's pretty slow moving. Blood doesn't become a pirate until over a third into the book. The writing style didn't exactly thrill me either. Other than that, I enjoyed it.
Blood!Blood!Blood!Captain Blood ,the fiercest pirate since Blackbeard.(But Blackbeard was real and Bl...
never mind)After helping a wounded rebel in England ,in 1685,a bad decision,the losing side.Physician Peter Blood, narrowly escapes hanging, when captured.Sent to the West Indies instead, as a slave, dead men can't make money for the Crown!
Peter was spotted by Arabella,the niece of the plantation owner ,who bought him and the games begin.Not liking the work, he leaves without permission ,with a group of friends.Before you know it, Blood becomes a pirate of the Caribbean.No Spanish ship is safe from these gentlemen.Making their base in Tortuga a French island off the coast of Haiti.The Frenchmen look the other way, for a piece of the action.When King James is overthrown , Peter can go back home with Arabella,if only he can locate the buried treasure.
Dig ,dig, dig Captain!
He had the right imagination that knows just how far it is safe to stray from the truth and just how far to colour it so as to change its shape for his own purposes.A fantastic & funny observation from the narrator who has told us several times that he is writing the history of Captain Blood.
Everything wrapped up well & on a high note, as expected.
"The Pirates of the Caribbean" owes it a great deal as do many pirate & war books & movies.
Peter's so awesome that even standing in line with a bunch of slaves for sale, even after he's not looking too hot from crossing the Atlantic with a bunch of sick, indentured servants in a chained hold, he catches the eye of Arabella Bishop, whom Sabatini also takes care to make unique.
She treats all men with an easy frankness, like a brother, which is why only the best man can catch her eye!But here's the thing that cracked me up.
This results, of course, in scenes of high adventure, in which Peter, now known as the infamous Captain Blood, demonstrates his bravery and cunning as he combats his enemies.
Despite his success, he has yet to face his greatest challenge – redeeming himself in the eyes of the beautiful Arabella, and winning her love.This was a fun, rollicking tale of adventure involving everyone’s favorite…pirates!
Peter Blood is the quintessential romantic action hero, he is handsome and brave, is cunning and has a roguish streak, but always conducts himself honorably.
I loved nearly everything about it, the pacing, the characters, the writing, and even the history involved, something that I generaly dislike.
This was such a quick read because the story flowed so well and there was little waste, with every word or description carrying the story further along without boring me.
I will not suddenly be reading pirate tales because of this book.
I loved the main character, his wit and sharp tongue and incredible luck when it all comes down to it.
And I love the sense of time I get from this book.
Rafael Sabatini was arguably the last of the writers of old-fashioned swashbuckling adventure romances.
But of course the story doesn’t end there and Blood ends up a reluctant pirate.
This is a classic story of a man condemned for a crime he did not commit.
What makes the story interesting is that although Blood embraces piracy, at the same time he is still trying to live up to his own high moral standards.
In fact, the same high moral standards that got him into trouble in the first place.
If you have a taste for adventure then it’s an absolute must-read.
I really wasn't sure how to rate this.
On the one hand the writing was great.
On the other I don't know if I would have been able to finish it if I hadn't been listening to the audiobook in the car.
I was digging it in the car (the accents were great), but every time I tried to actually read it, I would start to fall asleep.
I loved the character of Peter Blood and I thought all the other characters were incredibly well drawn, I guess adventures just don't do it for me.
But for the writing alone, I'll give this 3 stars.
Having enjoyed the Errol Flynn movie as a kid, I decided to read the book. For the most part, it was a fun romp, albeit a little too long. That is until the end. It sort of soured it. I mean we are talking about a book that takes place in Barbados where we discuss the treatment of white slaves but not the indigenous or the black ones. (view spoiler)[ And the fact that captain Blood becomes governor instead of going back to England is just too much for me. (hide spoiler)]
The actors are good, particularly the one playing Arabella Bishop – her voice is perfect.
Soon ship (rechristened Arabella) and crew are renowned throughout the Spanish Main for their exploits (particularly Blood’s zenith as a pirate – the raid on Maracaibo).Come 1688, James II is deposed and the Glorious Revolution puts William and Mary on the English throne.
It should again come as no surprise that, despite a few close calls, Blood wins everything in the end – pardon, commission and the girl – and the villains get the punishments they richly deserve.And while we’re on the subject: I’d also recommend Errol Flynn’s film adaptation – it remains remarkably faithful to the novel; and the role of Blood plays to all of Flynn’s acting strength.
As an awkward middle-school student, I found a kind of refuge in books like H.
So it's hardly surprising that, without knowing it, some piece of me was waiting forRaphael Sabatini's Captain Blood all along.Captain Blood is, without question, one of the greatest pirate adventures ever written.
Sabatini's novel is a product of the same late-Victorian appetite for tales of adventure in foreign lands that gave us works like The Pirates of Penzance and Kim, but nothing about it feels imitative.
But reading lines like that, my inner middle-school geek grins and cheers and I love every page of it, Great Literature be damned.


