https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5367.The_Great_Book_of_Amber
It isn't complicated but it is epic.Imagine that there is only one true world and it casts "shadows" that make up the rest of the worlds.
I breeze through it every time I read it even though I am enjoying every bit.The series has two five book sets.
Most if not all loose ends are tied up.The second set isn't nearly as complete however, it has many more interesting elements.
The 2nd set feels rushed and the ending isn't right.
You can find a few short stories that Zelazny wrote that were going to be part of the 3rd set but I found them more frustrating than fun.
Update (Please read this first before complaining about my rating)People keep complaining that my 1 star is unfair because some books were better than others.
The fact that was published as separate books does not change that.
My view is that a work stands or falls by all of its parts.
I didn't because I didn't read this in parts with each part a stand alone work.
(view spoiler)[So Merlin's mother Dara sounds like she could come from the cast of The Bold and the Beautiful and Merlin himself says, "I got chewed out." Really, duuuddde?
The Corwin Cycle - 5 The Merlin Cycle - 4
This being a review for the omnibus and all, it'll get bumped till I'm finished with it, in 2193 or something. Sorry. Nine Princes in Amber: ★★★✰✰ The Guns of Avalon: ★★✰✰✰Such a hard couple of books to give a rating for. The worldbuilding is spectacular. The overall story arc of the series is truly ambitious in its epic scope: Zelazny's writing serves such a vast narrative well - dry and to the point, sometimes witty, other times quietly poetic. I find the pace to be a bit unbalanced in places,
Sorry.❶ Nine Princes in Amber: ★★★✰✰❷ The Guns of Avalon: ★★✰✰✰Such a hard couple of books to give a rating for.
I find the pace to be a bit unbalanced in places, but even in their slower moments, both Nine Princes in Amber and Guns of Avalon make up for the lack of action thanks to the author's extraordinary imagination.
Take Corwin: one moment the author's cynicism is unflinching in its depiction of this god-like superman hellbent in his terrible - and blind to any consequence - quest for power; the next, the Prince of Amber comes across as a textbook example of a Gary Stu - no feat is too impossible for him, no enemy is beyond his power to defeat, no woman can resist his charms.
It was the second fantasy series I read after LotR.
These two are the reasons I love fantasy genre.
Since that time no other books forced me to use my imagination to the same extent as Amber.
Each book (there are 10) completely changed how I thought Amber world works.
For those curious how Zelazny planned to proceed: hunt down Amber short stories.
They are really short and leave you with craving for more, but the sequel will never come, sadly.To make a long story short - for those who have not read it yet: what are you waiting for?
Please note: this review applies only to the Corwin Cycle as I have never particularly liked Dara or cared about Merlin.Can you imagine a world without fantasy books?
Then I returned to him – seated in his usual armchair – and asked him breathlessly: “Dad, are there more books like this one?” When he nodded, I knew my world is about to change.
I have been in my teens back then, and so my perception of the book, or rather, the whole series, was that of princes and princesses, unicorns, magic, evil things and saving the world.
I have read so many better books since then...All things being equal, this all does not matter.
It's also in Manna from Heaven, the "Collected Works" by NESFA, & possibly elsewhere.
While I won't recommend piracy, I will say that publishers have made a good case for it with the lack of availability of the Amber shorts, including the prologue.
The prologue is important to the series, but I didn't even know of its existence until years after I'd read it.
A better deal is to pick up The Road to Amber, one of the NESFA 'Collected Works of Roger Zelazny'.
That's a 6 set series with a 7th book, a bibliography, that is a must-have for anyone who really likes Zelazny's work.

Perverzija!Da, cista perverzija za onoga ko uziva u fantastici, posebno Epskoj (mada ova knjiga poseduje i elemente naucne fantastike u sebi). Zelaznijev stil pisanja je neponovljiv, covek ima svoje "atribute" he heDelo mu je jako koliko i prezime. Ni za zivu glavu ne propustajte ovaj serijal, krucijalno je vazno da ga procitate kako bi mogli da gradite misljenje o tome sta je dobra, sta vanserijska a sta osrednje napisana fantastika.Samo cu jos reci da mi Amber u polici stoji pored Hiperiona i Iliona, na najvisoj polici!
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.Roger Zelazny's Amber series is one of the best sci-fi/fantasy epics ever written.
If you knew these people in real life, you'd probably hate them, but in Zelazny's hands they're charming (especially Corwin).
Plot twists and cliff-hangers make it hard to stop reading.With all that praise, I must mention two little problems:1.
The story never quite wraps up because Zelazny died before finishing it.Bottom Line: Read The Corwin Cycle (the first half).
If you're hooked, keep going.Read this review in context at 
Fantasy Literature
Unfortunately, I'm a big fan of strong characters and their growth, and I just didn't find that here.None of the characters seem to have any reason for their actions at any point.
It feels like certain things had to happen for the plot to move forward, so the characters make these things happen regardless of how much sense it makes from their point of view.I was very disappointed by the book, honestly.
I feel like an ambitious author could take the setting of Amber and make a spinoff novel or series with strong characters that would make a better story than the original.
I was still new to fantasy, having been a hardcore horror and sci-fi fan, then going through all of Zelazny's other works, when I decided to sit down to these stories.Seriously, I was impressed with the easy progression into a multi-universe view delineated between ultimate order and ultimate chaos.
(Oh, sorry, i meant trope.) I loved the first 5 books better than the second 5, but Merlin's story did have a more epic feel, in my opinion.It's still hard to find fantasy as good as what he wrote, although I'm still willing to keep looking.
I read this book during huricane Ivan, when three of my four homes (My dorm, My Parent's house, and my boyfriend's house) were pretty much falling down around me.
A very awesome guy named Barry lent me his battered copy...and by battered I mean well loved.
This book filled a lot of space that could have been spent in what Floridians know as a huricane coma.
I't will definately take you at least a week to read this bad mama-jama, so carve out some serious "me-time" before tackling it.
Awesome book, buy it for yourself, and your children, definately in my top 3 favs!
agh, ten books 1200 pages i am obsessive and can't quit reading a book i have started even when i know it will be pointless to finish and i have already read 500 pages!
i do not know what these other people are talking about!
the first i would say three books were pretty good, then it kind of lost its train of thought, hmmm really wish i had never started this epic tale i wouldnt have wasted three weeks (i mean three weeks!!!!) of my life.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Magic Undercover: "The Amber Series" by Roger Zelazny(Original Review, 1980)1 - The Amber series has had a great impact on the field they say.I have serious doubts about whether that is true. I will leave someone else to develop those arguments. However, in any case Farmer's WORLD OF TIERS series does NOT support this contention. The AMBER series is derived from the WORLD OF TIERS series. The primary difference is that TIERS uses a technological background for the basic structure of the universe and AMBER uses a magical background.
as a whole this series is the most fantastical fantasy world i have as yet come across.i did like the first five a little better then the last five.i loved the character of corwin, he was wonderful and unlike most of the rest of his family he seemed to have more good then bad.his son has much the as history.i recommend this book to all how have read fantasy before, it is something different from the mainstream of the genre.
It was partially due to things going on in the "real world", but for some reason this book was a fairly slow read for me.My initial reactions after the first "book" were that:1) I enjoyed the world/characters2) I thought the author was very imaginative and had some cool ideas3) I didn't like the narrative voice4) The copy-editing was awful (numerous typos/grammar errors)After having finished the entire saga, I would say that those reactions stand but I would expand them a bit and add a couple of other comments.
I sort of got annoyed with the faux-medieval language towards the end, and I didn't care that much about the characters, but the cliff-hanger ending did leave me curious and wanting to read the next in the series.I was a bit annoyed that none of the sisters are relevant characters.The Guns of Avalon: I just finished this yesterday, and had to think a minute to recall what happened.
So much happens, with so many different people and things wanting a piece of him, that we don't get a lot of time for real in-depth character stuff.I mean, I liked Merlin, but I only felt I knew him superficially.
The Great Book of Amber is trippy people!
Zelazny never makes his reader go through info-dumps and I found it interesting to puzzle out the workings of his world, Amber.The first five books star a man named Corwin, one of the nine princes of Amber, who wakes up with a strange case of amnesia.
In the first book Corwin staggers through Zelazny's version of earth looking for answers.
His plots for the character Merlin start taking erratic turns.
Despite these bemusing plot decisions I still liked the Great Book of Amber.
4 stars is a misleading rating for this collection of 10 books.
The first 5 (Corwin Books) deserve a full 5 stars.
The Corwin books (1-5) are among my favorite fantasy books of all time.
Curmudgeon" for recommending them.Books 6-10 (Merlin Books) deserve 4 stars each...not as good as their predecessors but still good books in their own right.
Merlin, son of Corwin, is a much more sympathetic protagonist than his old man...and less interesting by consequence.Taken as a whole, this series deserves 4.5 stars.
Since I only give 5 stars to what I consider to be "perfect" books, I had to round down to 4.
This is in the top three of my favorite books (well the whole thing is how I read it) of all time! I LOVE LOVE LOVE these books, LOVE the world of Amber, LOVE everything about it. We are on copy number three in the house because we read it all the time, it is right next to my classics! The BEST epic fantasy novel(s) OUT THERE!Zelazny is one of my heros!~
As a collected series on the whole, this is a wonderful group of novels; however, several are standouts, including the first three. Remember to try to pace yourself :)
Corwin learns he is one of nine Princes of Amber, the royal family of a magical realm of order, in the shadow of which all other worlds exist.
The shadow travel was fun at first, but at times we have three or four pages of broken text describing passage through a myriad collection of shadows which I tended to skip.The fifth book finishes well, and I was happy to pause there and reflect: great world-building, good plot, intriguing characters, plenty of twists, style a little clunky and wearing, but overall I really enjoyed it.The Merlin arc impressed me less.
I'd read the first series many years ago, that is to say the first five novels comprising the exploits of Corwin of Amber, and adored it.
Much later I found out that he'd written a second set of five novels about Amber and Chaos, so I went ahead and bought The Great Book of Amber: The Complete Amber Chronicles, 1-10.
There are some odd points and unresolved issues in the second set of books, but overall I find the entirety of the series quite fun to read--more than once.It's a great story from an author who should receive far more attention than he does.
A masterpieceClearly one of the best series I have read.I read the first 5 books about 10 years ago (1995), however, I didn't like them.A few month ago, I gave it another try and I just could not put the book down.
I guess I was not ready for the The Great Book of Amber 10 years ago.
Otherwise the series are great.
I wish Roger Zelazny was still with us and could write a sequence, because even when you are done with 10th book, there is a feeling that there are a lot more to tell us...this is a reason why I would give it 9 of 10 stars and not all 10.Who knows, maybe one day some genius will accomplish such an feat.
When I bought this book, I had no idea who Roger Zelazny was or a clue about Amber.
I devoured the book in a handful of days and fell in love with Zelazny.
I've read this series so often that I'm on my third copy of the book.The story is about a powerful family who have the skills to travel between alternate realities.
Of all worlds, Amber is the true world and in all things, Amber is the standard of beauty, honor and power.
Normally, that would leave me angry but this series only leaves wanting for more.
FINALLY finished this Goliath. Huge tome and was a little slow in parts. Overall it kept my interest and was a pretty good read. Didn't really care for the ending because after 1158 pages it was not solid and could have continued on lol. Won't be reading it again that is for sure!
The second five follow the adventures of Prince Merlin, Prince Corwin's son.
I gave the first five books of this series, the adventures of Prince Corwin, a solid five star rating.Throughout all ten novels, one thing is consistent, and that is the mastery of the English language by Roger Zelazny.
Therefore, I could only rate Merlin's tale as three stars.
Not really fair as I would highly recommend the Corwin section to any reader of fantasy as a must read, while Merlin's tale not so.
They went through all the trouble of getting the rights and printing the thing, but the fifteen-pound tome is physically difficult to read, laughably inconvenient to transport, and inexcusably devoid of any kind of supportive structural writing--like an introduction, a foreword, an about the author, an about the series, or even a table of contents!Wikipedia tells us that the Great Book comprises all ten books of the Amber series, a story told in two five-book cycles that were published between 1967 and 1991 and have come to be regarded as some of the most seminal works of SF ever written.
This collection was originally published as ten volumes but really is two separate stories--the story of Corwin, prince of Amber and his son Merlin, half-breed prince of Chaos.
While Amber is represented by the Pattern, a construct invented to infuse power into those who walk it and to perpetuate order in the universe, the Courts of Chaos has its own sign, the Logrus, its exact opposite.The story ultimately concerns choice.
This book is read at two levels: for the intricate battle-for-power story, and for the mind-blowing, unique visions Zelazny manages to conjure in an almost Dali-esque way.
