https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/189954.Memoirs_of_a_Revolutionary
All were brave, all sought a principle of life nobler and juster than that of surrender to the bourgeois order; except perhaps for certain young men, disillusioned and crushed before their consciousness had crystallized, all were engaged in movements for progress.
I must confess that the feeling of having so many dead men at my back, many of them my betters in energy, talent, and historical character, has often overwhelmed me; and that this feeling has been for me also the source of a certain courage, if that is the right word for it."Review to come eventually.
Their helpful mini-bios of the obscure Mensheviks and trade unionists who crossed paths with Serge almost invariably end with a matter-of-fact notation along the lines of: ‘shot by Cheka, 1920’ or ‘arrested, 1937.
Consider Serge’s offhand summary of the career of a certain Guilbeaux, a French communist:Guilbeaux’s whole life was a perfect example of the failure who, despite all his efforts, skirts the edge of success without ever managing to achieve it.
And from beginning to end we read Serge's experiences of his life as an anarchist and militant revolutionary, then communist, then Bolshevick, a rather highly placed official in the Comintern, his participation in the Left Opposition (of Trotsky), his expulsion from the communist party, subsequent imprisonment, exile to central Asia, final deportation, etc., etc.So why does this book remind me of "Russian Ark"?
his masterwork it appears, consists of a stream, flood really, of memories in precis, collected in roughly chronological order in which he conveys his experience of persons and events related to left-wing, revolutionary politics in Europe and to Russian/Soviet history from about 1908 through 1941.
Sin dall'infanzia,mi sembra d'aver sempre avuto,molto netto,il doppio sentimento che doveva dominarmi durante tutta la prima parte della mia vita: quello cioè di vivere in un mondo senza evasione possibile dove non restava che battersi per una evasione impossibileVictor Serge
In this book, Serge chronicles his life from his early idealistic Anarchist days when he was involved with the Bonnot Gang, to his exile in Mexico after he was hounded out of Russia for supporting the Trotskyist Oppostion.
I think Serge makes his position quite clear in relation to what he supported about 1917; he supported the Bolsheviks up to a point, but did frown quite severely over its bureaucracy and events such as the anarchist Kronsdadt uprising really caused him alarm.
Serge was a very deep intellectual, and this is made all to clear with the words he writes.
In doing so, he tied himself to the colorful history of European radical activism and the Russian revolutionaries -- and carried that heritage well into the twentieth century.
Only his ties to prominent French intellectuals and the international popularity of his writings saved him from a fateful trip to the cellars of the Lubyanka.Memoirs of a Revolutionary is eloquent.
Richard Greeman's excellent glossary provides explanatory notes on the multitude of early twentieth century French, Spanish, Italian and Russian radicals who played roles in Serge's long revolutionary journey.
Vlady went on to a long life as a successful artist in Mexico.
No siempre consciente, no por falta de honestidad; es el tiempo transcurrido, la perspectiva los que transforman los hechos recordados.Aún así, Serge nos ofrece unas estampas vívidas, por vividas, de la revolución rusa, de sus protagonistas (Lenin, Bujarin, Trotsky, Zinoviev,...), de los críticos, de la disidencia, del gulag.
185)Junto a esta piedad la creencia en el ser humano, la esperanza, aún virgen pese a los acontecimientos vividos, en un futuro mejor "Con esta condición única, convertida en imperativo categórico: no renunciar jamás a defender al hombre contra los sistemas que planean la aniquilación del individuo" (pág.
A masterpiece... critical and ennobling. (Review will follow at some point)
Here is the person who combines the destiny of a professional revolutionary with the literary gift.
I never understood how your profession could be a revolutionary like a carpenter or an artist.
(Not that I would want to have such professional inclinations).
It is interesting to compare his memories of pre-war Europe with the ones of Stephen Zweig - they walked practically the same streets, but saw different things.As far as the Russian Revolution is concerned, it is the honest account of the witness and the participant.
It was interesting reading as I have not come across that many similar accounts which are not distorted by the propaganda.
Instead, it reads like a piece of extended, on-the-ground reportage and analysis from the aftermath of the Russian Revolution, chronicling the civil war and subsequent slide into totalitarianism and terror.
As Serge phrases it: ‘The Party is the repository of truth, and any form of thinking which differs from it is a dangerous or reactionary error.
As he repeatedly comments, outside Russia people either did not want to know what happening, did not believe things could possibly be as bad as he said, or both.There is a great deal to admire in these memoirs.
Although not born in Russia, Serge's story is quintessentially Russian.
By page 10, Serge is throwing down lines like, "His second wife, worn out from childbearing and poverty, underwent terrible crises of hysteria." Before long you are knee-deep in this catalog of suicides and guillotine-ing and vanishings and failed revolutions and the sordid taint of money and power.
Yet Serge never loses his faith in the transformative power of the will of the people.The fact I have a minimal grasp on Russian history and don't know all the Alexeys and Vladimirs being name-dropped here is inconsequential.
The writing is very powerful, Serge has stacked his book with memorable turns of phrase and stories that have a universal appeal.
Έμεινε φυλακισμένος κάτω από άθλιες συνθήκες από τις συντηρητικές δυτικές κυβερνήσεις αλλά και την ΕΣΣΔ κατά την περίοδο του Στάλιν.
Ήταν ένας από τους λίγους μοναχικούς ακτιβιστές με αναρχικούς δεσμούς που κατάφερε να έχει μια θέση μεταξύ των μπολσεβίκων της Ρωσίας και να μεταφέρει με αντικειμενική ματιά τον εμφύλιο πόλεμο, την καταστολή του εργατικού αντιπολιτευτικού κινήματος και την εξάλειψη της εσωτερικής αντιπολίτευσης του Στάλιν.
Εξιστορώντας τα απομνημονεύματά του με μια γλώσσα απλή μας δίνει μια ουσιαστική ματιά στο εσωτερικό της Μπολσεβίκης Ρωσίας, την Γερμανία του μεσοπολέμου, την κεντρική ευρώπη και την Βαλκανική χερσόνησο.
Ottima lettura, alternativa alle versioni di regime degli eventi del 17 e successiviVictor, memore della sua esperienza anarchica, capisce da subito la deriva burocratica/totalitaria del leninismo...Ottimo anche lo stile puramente letterario- Lettura consigliata
Great for the occasionally interjected commentary, the description of the Left Opposition from the ground, and the portraits of people like Trotsky and Lenin.
As probably expected, these were only sporadically placed in the narrative as the reader is left constantly (at least in the first half) flipping to the name index reading about people where that mostly appear only once or twice.
But the second half is much more engaging, and I won't argue with the importance of this memoir in documenting the life of someone who impressively seemed to always be in the right (left?) place at the right (left) time during the revolutionary half century this book relates.
Η μεταφράστρια του βιβλίου, Ρεββέκα Πέσσαχ, μιλά γι' αυτό και για τον Βίκτορ Σερζ στη συνέντευξή της στο δεύτερό μας τεύχος: https://marginalia.gr/arthro/revekka-...
One of the best book I've ever read in my life.
Although I believe that communism and anarchy are incompatible political beliefs, and it is impossible to reason with a Marxist, I can admire Serge’s consistency in thought, his quest for the truth, and respect for every man through liberty and democracy.
So with only two bad forms of government and refusal to believe capitalism could be good the intellectuals of the time were always in a myopic fog that led to the disaster that was the USSR and Nazi Germany.
Hopefully those of the modern day academics can read a book like this and see the good and also the bad in Serge’s thought process, but like most warnings from the past it will be surly ignored.- Anarchocapitalist
Yet at the end, in Mexico, he managed to retain his optimism for the long term victory of a truly democratic socialism - this in the midst of the second world war, with totalitarian regimes battling for control of Europe and Asia.At the end of the book he sums up his experience, noting that nearly every one of his comrades of the past 20 years had been killed or had disappeared into the prisons of the GPU.
But his worth as a writer was generally acknowledged and he managed to get some of his work published (for example, Midnight in the Century and Year One of the Revolution).
One of the best that I ever read.
This is one of the most remarkable books I have ever read, a first witness account of some of the most important world events of the first half of the twentieth century, a rich period for revolutionary events and the author, Victor Serge, a Belgian born Russian, is perfectly poised to give detailed personal encounters with many of the key protagonists.
Serge's fame as an author, especially in France, managed, through international outcry, to keep him and his young family away from the true harshness of life as an exile and ultimately secured his freedom back to Western Europe.
Pensé que iba a tomarme más tiempo para finalizar su lectura, pero de repente me atrapó y no pude dejar de leerlo hasta el final.
Reconozco que subrayé y marqué muchos fragmentos, citas, reflexiones porque el tema del totalitarismo me resulta interesante.
Los retratos y semblanzas de distintos personajes permiten sacar conclusiones sobre los dilemas éticos y políticos que los acontecimientos referidos generaron en toda una generación de seres humanos y que sirven, sin duda, para analizar también el tiempo presente y el futuro de la humanidad.
Pero si a uno le interesan esos temas y le apasionan esos conflictos, es una lectura que aporta y gratifica.
He wrote as an insider who saw what went right and how Lenin and then Stalin hijacked the revolution and went into despotism.
After both the press and the citizens had been conditioned to believe that the government was always right the arrests for dissent began, the terror and the fear started and the country was plunged into darkness.
Now think about what has happened in this country over the past 16 years with education.
Think about how our current POTUS belittles the press and claims that any actual news that is critical of his decisions is fake news.
Victor Serge was a remarkable man, a committed socialist and revolutionary, but also committed to human dignity and liberty. He soon became a member of the opposition in Soviet Russia, which led to internal exile and eventually deportation. Luckily, his friends, including the wonderful Dwight MacDonald, managed to eventually get him to Mexico during World War II. But whether his memoir has relevance in this post Soviet era is open to doubt.
"Prima ancora di uscire dall'infanzia, mi sembra di avere avuto, molto netto, il doppio sentimento che doveva dominarmi durante tutta la prima parte della mia vita: quello cioè di vivere in un mondo senza evasione possibile, dove non restava che battersi per un'evasione impossiblie."
This book was great.
For those interested in following his story after the Memoirs, the New Left Review translated his "Mexican Notebooks," which constitute the last 18-20% of his Carnets, a book which, if I'm not mistaken, has not yet been translated into English.
(Interesting for his assessment of Stefan Zweig, too).The story of a mind fiercely alive and committed to the principles of worker democracy even as these principles are betrayed by the Soviet regime.
But, despite its racism, a worthwhile read for anyone interested in learning about the commitments that fired great events, about how revolutionaries actually saw themselves in History.
Victor Serge just earned a place with just a few others on my hypothetical list of answers to “If you could have lunch (or go drinking) with any historical figure who would it be?” His memoir is a guide through the Russian Revolution like no other.
Nearly all the people he brings to life in the memoir are eventually lost to him, presumed executed or exiled.
they are all revolutionaries to anarchist oriented Serge.
Like Trotsky his life ends in Mexico where he wrote many novels, history, and the memoir.
The great thing about Serge though, is he looks clear-eyed at these movements, even while working very actively for them, and is not afraid to voice his criticism, even when his life and reputation is at risk.
Serge does his best though, both keeping things short and sweet, but also with such passion and personal engagement in the tone that the readers wants to fight through as well.
And has re-engaged my political thinking, to be both stronger and critical at the same time, i.e. to be like Serge.
The conditions in the hospital at Orenburg during Serge’s three year deportation there were particularly heartbreaking to read about, and I found myself trying to imagine what life had been like for the millions that were forced to live (and die) under Stalin’s rule.
As a history buff, especially with an interest in the 19th and 20th centuries, I really appreciated all of the personalities Serge described in Memoirs, most of whom he had met at one point or another in early 20th century Europe.
this man became my god with this book !
