https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/280992.Death_and_the_Dancing_Footman
As I read these early British mysteries, what I focus on beyond the mystery story line is how the impending Nazi transgressions that were going on in the real world at the same time the books were being written or published are mentioned (or not).
And so what interested me greatly when reading this particular title was that Alleyn had a conversation with Fox where he inquired about Fox's view of the impending war (remember, the book was published in 1941).
"I've never asked for your views on this war, Foxkin."Fox stared at him.
So there is a lady whose face was ruined by plastic surgery, along with the surgeon who destroyed her looks, two brothers, one of whom is engaged to a young woman who was previously engaged to the other, two women who run competing beauty salons and a famous playwright, and friend of the host, who is meant to act as the audience, although he also has a secret that he wishes to keep hidden.
So often, in Golden Age detective novels, we read of house parties which go wrong, but never usually because they are designed to do so!
Death & the Dancing Footman (1941) by Ngaio Marsh is one of those Golden Age mystery stand-bys: a murder at a country house party--and in the middle of a snow storm no less.
And he has invited Aubrey Mandrake, a poet dramatist, to be his impartial audience.It came to me that human beings could, with a little judicious arrangement, be as carefully "composed" as the figures in a picture.
I would set my palette with human colours, and the picture would paint itself.Aubrey Mandrake is horrified.
One of the characters of Marsh's houseparty murder actually references Sayers' book by its title, which I won't mention here so as not to spoil this book for anyone who's read the other.
Marsh is obsessed with the female characters' hands in this book for some reason--of one she says "her hands looked exhausted"--???, and of another that she sits down and "crosses her wrists in her lap." Really?
What that means when discussing a murder or talking to suspects, I cannot tell you.The book did bog down a bit after the actual murder, when Alleyn, The Girl and the Anti-hero are driving over the hills through post-blizzard snow to get much-needed medical supplies.
Needless to say, Dame Ngaio Marsh can write some riveting mysteries: Death In A White Tie, A Man Lay Dead, and Enter A Murderer come immediately to mind.
So, too, with Death and the Dancing Footman, published two years later.The flamboyant Jonathan Royal cruelly invites six guests who are mortal enemies to a house party, counting on an upcoming wintry storm to keep them housebound and at each other's throats.
I never thought I'd say that about a Ngaio Marsh book!
The book could have easily be trimmed by 50 pages and have been vastly improved.If you're looking to skip a Ngaio Marsh book, make it this one.
Ah, Ngaio Marsh.
What is it about you that I don't really care about whodunit?I figured this one out.
Easily.
The mystery was thin and rather transparent.
But who cares?
Especially when one gets to relish in her characterizations and her way with words.
Descriptions like these make these cozies worth reading, even if you aren't a mystery buff; "A popinjay," he muttered, "a stock figure of dubious gallantry." And he pronounced the noise usually associated with the word "Pshaw." " ...
[he's] bone from the eyes up if you try to talk about anything that's not quite his language." After a good deal of demurring, Jonathan finally rang the bell.
I was able to pick out the murderer pretty early in the going, which means it was either blatantly obvious, or I have read so many detective stories, I am finally getting good at it (I prefer to believe the latter, although it is likely it is the former).
I get somewhat annoyed with ridiculously tight time lines (the killer had exactly a 3-minute window to commit the crime!), but I suppose this is a function of the murder taking place when there is a full household of people trapped in one place with limited opportunities for alibis.
All in all, a very good murder mystery, and one that you could easily read out of sequence from the series.
I think it may be my new favourite Ngaio Marsh.
I must have read this before, but I had no memory of it.
I picked out a suspect early on and thought 'I must have read this before, because X is obviously guilty.' And the story continued and more and more clues pointing to X were found--and then the rug was pulled completely out from under me.
Death and the Dancing Footman is also interesting because it is a book written during the war, and it manages not to be hysteric or propaganda, something that does show up in other writers of this era, and a little bit in Ngaio Marsh's other books--the ones where Alleyn is in NZ doing spy stuff.
E' anche più bello dei gialli della Christie, ai quali, come si legge nella quarta di copertina, è sempre stato paragonato.
Ricorda molto i giochi da tavolo tipo Cluedo, dove l'azione si svolge tutta all'interno di una lussuosa dimora di inizio/metà Novecento con tanto di maggiordomo.
Di azione ce n'è veramente poca e a forza di leggere i particolari delle tre stanze clou (salottino, fumoir e biblioteca), le si impara a conoscere quasi fossero parte di casa nostra.
In Death and the Dancing Footman, one of Ngaio Marsh’s most creative, complex, and crazy books, Jonathan Royal has decided that he needs to work out his aesthetic cravings.
However, Jonathan is no good at writing or art, so he has decided to work out his frustrations in the genre of human manipulation.
But Nicholas also has a rival for Madame Elise’s affections, a plastic surgeon named Dr. Francis Hart.
The final crazy twist is that the career of Dr. Hart is one calculated to create horror in Sonia Compline because over 20 years earlier, a plastic surgeon destroyed her face.
2 attempted murders, one successful and one suicide were all these events related and administered by the same person?
or were there more grudges to bear and false leads being laid all of which seemed to lead to one person alleyn only arrives after two thirds of the novel has passed and the it was only by chance that he was in the area great characterisation although one could see thru the plot quite early on.
A house party of ill assorted guests leads to tensions,arguments, and eventually murder. This one is quite enjoyable, and there are some interesting characters. I remained uncertain of the identity of the murderer until the end, which is always satisfactory. Unfortunately Alleyn does not appear until two two thirds of the way through the book, and Inspector Fox only towards the end. The conversations between Fox and Alleyn are one of the most enjoyable features of this series, so this is a bit disappointing. Despite that, an entertaining book.
(08/21/18 at 6:15pm CST) So far, I have only gotten through the list of Jonathan's invited guests and I chuckled.
I must say, he is deliciously sneaky to compile this list of unsuspecting guests who have issues with one another.
"It seems to me," said Mandrake, "that you have invited stark murder to your house.
What do you propose to do with them?" Jonathan replied, "Let them enact their drama."(08/24/18 at 8pm CST) I have finished this bit of theatrics.
Even though I correctly guessed the murderer, it was still enthralling.
Interestingly, it mentioned the term "cosy murder."
In every book she seems to skewer some group, whether it is aspiring actresses or folk dancers or surrealist playwrights, and initially, I wasn't sure who she was skewering.
There were a few digs at experimental theater, but instead of really sinking in her teeth, she chose to make Aubrey Mandrake sympathetic rather than absurd.
(She even makes a dig at Busman's Honeymoon.) Roderick Alleyn has never been at his most prosaic.
But I'm not sure how successful it is.
She deliberately deflates her own plot to make the point that mysteries are often ridiculous.
And sort of appropriately unpleasant.-There is no Nigel Bathgate, who, when he has a reason to be around is fine, but when he doesn't is tedious (e.g.: "A Surfeit of Lampreys)-Troy makes an exceptionally brief appearance-The host is fairly awful, in an effective way.
And surprise, surprise, someone winds up dead.-I kind of like the secondary romance, even if it's another case of super insta-love.The (minor) cons:-It takes 2/3 of the book for Alleyn to put it an appearance.-The snowstorm feels awfully convenient.-A lot of the characters are fairly terrible.Still, I liked this one.
This one is an effective character driven mystery.

One of the better ones, I have all of her books but one and can't find it.
Hard to keep up with all the details as you're driving but pretty diverting. Lovely voicing of characters. But not my favorite Ngaio Marsh.
Very odd book in this series. The story just dragged on and on, and went round in circles. Alleyn didn't make an appearance until nearly the end.
Like an author gathering together a likely band of suspects, bored gentleman Jonathan Royal assembles a group of friends and acquaintances who he knows dislike or despise one another to varying degrees, in hopes of providing some entertainment for himself.
The characters may express grandiloquent, noble sentiments, but Marsh gleefully uses irony to undermine them, while shoehorning in a couple of unlikely love stories at the same time.This is my first Roderick Alleyn mystery, so it's hard to judge how this detective is normally treated by his creator, but here he gets pretty short shrift.
The guests include the Complines, mother and two sons, William and Nicholas; Aubrey Mandrake, a playwright with a club foot, who is very sensitive about his origins; Dr. Hart, a plastic surgeon and this girlfriend Madame Elise, a beauty specialist; Lady Hersey Amblington, Jonathan's cousin and a rival beauty specialist; and Chloris Wynne, William Compline's fiancee.
Chloris was originally enganed to Nicholas, Nicholas is hot for Madame Elise, Dr. Hart is the surgeon who did a disastrous job on Mrs. Compline years ago, and Elise and Hersey are bitter rivals in business.
This would have been a comfortable 4 stars for me, but for Jonathon.
I understand his motivation, and I understand his subsequent actions, and maybe I'm biased because I know this is a mystery novel, but this whole premise is in remarkably poor taste.
Also, Mandrake's flirtation with Chloris was not my favourite thing, not because Chloris was a flibbertigibbet and ingenue, but because Mandrake was so self-disparaging because he was falling for an ingenue, when she seemed like a perfectly normal girl in an awkward position.The mystery itself was solid.
but for the ones I was supposed to like.
I liked most of the previous books from this series, but this one was a real pleasure.
The setting with a group of people in a isolated country house is given a few twists.
All the different and often tense relationships between the characters are a result of deliberate actions of the host, who wanted a 'dramatic' atmosphere.
The characters notice soon enough that their situation is peculiar and start making allusions to crime novels and detection (including a work by Dorothy Sayers when they discuss how the murder was done).
A must if you like the genre.
Amazing, possibly my favourite Inspector Alleyn so far - and he's only it for the last 3 or 4 chapters!It has all the best bits of those 70s and 80s big budget Agatha Christie Christmas adaptations: people who hate each other trapped in a remote house, weird families, love affairs, snow, stiff upper lips trembling, an impossible murder, macabre details and distracting attempted murders, all told with Ngaio's usual pacy storytelling, dry wit and attention to detail. Hell, she even references the murder in Busman's Honeymoon!. Not the sexy tiger bit.Genius
As much as I enjoy the setup in some of Marsh's books, I didn't enjoy it as much this time.
I gave the book 4 stars simply because I still love her writing and the characters themselves were so well crafted.
I just didn't like having to read 2/3 of the book before Alleyn ever makes an appearance, though.
I know the buildup is important, but this time I think it got a bit out of hand.
Not my favorite Marsh book, but I recommend it to anyone who likes interesting characterizations and plot twists.
It's still an Inspector Alleyn story and worth reading just for that.
Sometimes it's nice to revisit the Golden Age of Mystery.
Nagaio Marsh was one of the leaders of the locked door mystery - like her peer Agatha Christie.
Reading an old mystery from this era is like eating chocolate pudding.
Comfy and smooth and not too scary.
In this novel, an upper class Englishman throws a party with a twist.
He brings together a group of people who don't like each other very much.
Never a good idea at the best of times, but disastrous in a sudden snow storm that strands them together.
Old hurts float to the top and tempers and nerves fray.

This book's strength lies in the skill of the author in conjuring up the atmosphere of the increasingly tense houseparty. The creeping sense of impending doom, the isolation caused by the winter storms and the increasing tension between the members of the party are all handled very well. In many ways the mystery is really a secondary consideration (and in fact, the detective only appears two thirds of the way through the book). The solution itself is reasonably obvious, although it is still satisfying to have everything laid out nicely at the end.
It sounds like the party from hell -- and it is. Bored rich dude decides to hold a house party with a carefully assembled cast of people who have reasons to hate each other. Then they're all shut in by a snowstorm. Is it any wonder someone gets killed? Marsh's country-house mysteries can get slow when Roderick Alleyn isn't on the scene, but in this one she gives us a young playwright, Aubrey Mandrake, as a stand-in. There are two romances as well, one of them predictable, the other completely silly. However, the footman actually does dance.
Insipid host invites a collection of "friends" with histories of hatred and antagonism to his country house for a snowy winter weekend. Mayhem and murder ensue. Visiting nearby, Alleyn is called to sort out the mystery, with the important clue concerning timing provided by the young footman who paused in the hallway to dance to a favorite tune playing on the radio in the murder room.
