https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156587.The_Sixth_Wife
Rating Clarification: 3.5 Stars" Divorced, Beheaded, Died.Divorced, Beheaded, Survived. "So goes that nice little ditty that encapsulates the matrimonial history of England's most famous king, Henry VIII. While a cursory glance would seem to suggest that the "Survived" wife, Katherine Parr, fared best out of the bunch, I'm not so certain that's so. After all, Katherine P. got Henry at his absolute worst both physically and mentally. Aggravated by a stinky, puss-filled leg, over 300 pounds heavy,
"So goes that nice little ditty that encapsulates the matrimonial history of England's most famous king, Henry VIII.
While a cursory glance would seem to suggest that the "Survived" wife, Katherine Parr, fared best out of the bunch, I'm not so certain that's so.
And then, when the king has finally died, danger has been avoided (and by extension her neck saved), her true love by her side at last, and a baby in her belly, Katherine faces the ultimate betrayal by the man she loved and the step-daughter she cherished and fostered.
No, it's not Katherine Parr that's the "lucky" royal wife.
It recounts the story of Henry VIII's sixth wife, Catherine Parr.
After two marriages, Katherine Parr has met the man she believed herself to truly love only to be chosen by the cruel tyrantHenry VIII as his sixth wife.
she is saved by Henry's death only to marry the deceitful rake, Sir Thomas Seymour who betrays her by wooing the young ElizabethThe novel also touches on the lives of others such as Catherine Parr's sister Anne Parr Herbert, her martyred friend and devout Protestant, Anne Askew, her stepdaughter Elizabeth, and her niece, Jane Grey.Plaidy as always writes with a fine sense of detail, and a deep understanding of the human mind, as well as an almost meticulous grasp of English history.
If you want to read a more historically accurate account of the life of Henry VIII's wife #6, Katherine Parr, with no "spinning" and bodice ripping, then choose this one over the Susannah Dunn novel with the same title. Jean Plaidy remains the uncontested queen (no pun) of English royal history!
When you sing the rhyme about Henry's wives, you always think of Katherine Parr of being the lucky one, the survivor.
No young girl wants to be married off to an old man but this is just what happened to Katherine.
And when she became a widow, her family gave her to another old man.
When her second husband dies, she is excited at the thought of finally being with the man she loves, Thomas Seymour.
But then she catches the eye of another old man, one she can't refuse, The King.
When he finally dies, she is free to marry Thomas.
This was my first foray into historical fiction and I thought it was an ok book.
Shame you know all the way through that she won't be beheaded as it takes a lot of the drama out of it!I know it is the purpose of historical fiction but I struggle to get it out of my head that all the thoughts and feelings are made up.
I know this is the case in a normal fiction book but I guess I just struggle as I know they were real people and had very particular thoughts that we cannot possibly know!However, I would be interested in reading more historical fiction.
She should not regret these contrasts; she could watch for these traits in his character, and, as her knowledge of them grew, she might find some way of saving others from his wrath, as well as herself."The Sixth Wife describes the life of Katharine Parr, a two-times widow who had hoped her future would consist of herself and Thomas Seymour, her roving-eyed lover.
However, on appearing at Court, King Henry VIII sees her, and him having been wife-less for a year, decides that Katharine Parr is to be wife Number 6.
The fiction based on fact story of the sixth wife of Henry VIII-Katherine Parr.
Twice widowed, she is in love with dashing Thomas Seymour, but Henry has fallen for her and has his love rival sent away.
Katherine reluctantly agrees to marry him, living in fear that he will turn on her like his previous wives.
Katherine was a fascinating wife-she restored good relations between Henry and his children, outwitted those plotting against her and managed to still be alive when the tyrant died, allowing her to marry Thomas and have his child.
Read more than forty years ago, but recall it telling of the story of Katherine Parr, Henry VIII, Thomas Seymour, and Elizabeth. Keeping Henry happy while loving another, and avoiding all the machinations of the court to stay alive to eventually marry Thomas Seymour.
Not my favorite of the Tudor series. There was some awkward switching between characters in the middle of chapters that kind of threw me.
It focuses on just about everyone else in the book but her, Katherine Parr is such a mousey character that even the book couldn't focus on her and had to string along other characters (who weren't really interesting per say, but none the less talked about other things other than Thomas Seymour.) who (view spoiler)[she ends up hating after ALL her chapters and on and on and ON about how great and wonderful he was, well till she found out he was into little girls.
I enjoyed the book but I am not a fan of Katherine Parr - she was the boring wife compared to the others. I know she had no choice in marrying Henry VIII but she also didn't try to make her mark either. It could have been that she was afraid of poking the bear so to speak. Jean Plaidy did a great job of outlining the dull life she lead with Henry but I am eager to move on to the next book in the series.
I always enjoy her books since I love historical fiction. She does a lot of research and they are also informative. In some parts she seemed to ramble a bit on the some issues occasionally but once you got passed that it was a good read - if you like this type of book. I would like to get more in her series - especially on Queen Victoria and the Stuarts.
The Tudors will always be one of my fave historical periods, and the little known story of Katherine Parr was a great one. Interesting to learn more about the Seymour brothers too, and a different view of Princess Elizabeth. Overall very enjoyable.
Como siempre Jean Plaidy es reiterativa, es innegable que ese es su sello y también, sus cierres, sus cierres son buenísimos, y este no fue la excepción, me gustó, pero admito que contrario a los 3 libros anteriores de la Saga este me pareció aburrido y por tanto tarde más en terminarlo.
Very quick read...like her queen ship with Henry VIII
While this is presented as Katherine's story she appears in almost half of the book.Jean Plaidy used a third person narrative for the "The Sixth Wife", showing us the thoughts and actions of several characters including : King Henry, Thomas Seymour, Princess Elizabeth or Thomas Cranmer.
But before you decide that you already know as much as you want to about Henry and his wives, this historical fiction novel is by Jean Plaidy (1 September 1906 – 18 January 1993), the prolific author who wrote and published almost 200 novels under various pseudonyms (one for each genre she wrote), and whose real name was Eleanor Hibbert.
This book about Henry VIII's sixth wife, Katharine Parr, is no exception.
There are many historical novels about the Tudor queens, religious upheaval, and wars, but Plaidy's work is historically grounded while still making the times and characters incredibly real.
I'll definitely be looking at more of her historical fiction novels.
While I've read other historical novels about King Henry the 8th's other wives, Anne and the first Catherine, I didn't know much about his last wife, the one who "survived" him.
(copied review) Dangerous court intrigue and affairs of the heart collide as renowned novelist Jean Plaidy tells the story of Katherine Parr, the last of Henry VIII’s six queens.Henry VIII’s fifth wife, Katherine Howard, was both foolish and unfaithful, and she paid for it with her life.
At court it was whispered that the king would soon execute yet another wife.
While it may lack somewhat in psychological depth, for sheer emotional drama she conveys all the horror of being the wife of a psychopathic tyrant.Book Description: Henry VIII’s fifth wife, Katherine Howard, was both foolish and unfaithful, and she paid for it with her life.
Henry vowed that his sixth wife would be different, and she was.
A thoughtful, well-read lady, she was known at court for her unblemished reputation and her kind heart.
Henry raged that Katherine had betrayed him, and had a warrant drawn up for her arrest and imprisonment.
At court it was whispered that the king would soon execute yet another wife.
Katharine Parr was King Henry VIII's sixth and final wife.
Alas, her optimism for her future clouds her judgement and prevents her from seeing the deception surrounding her.Jean Plaidy writes her story well, avoiding excessive length and keeping the story of Katharine Parr to the essential truth of the story.
At points I found the story to stray too far from the world as Katharine Parr would have seen it to explain what was happening in her life.
I would have preferred to be left in the dark of the truth of the situation until Katharine herself learned of her trials.
Catherine Parr was much more than Henry's nurse and head over heels for Thomas Seymour.
There is not a lot of depth in for Catherine, I felt it was very dry.
Plaidy while she tries to be very fair to all her subjects, comes out with very dry characterizations and we rarely get to feel what her subjects are feeling.
However I will say that as far as Catherine Parr portrayals go, this is one of the best out there.
The others that I've read have a lot of depth but tend to write Catherine as a Mary Sue with the rest around her as foils to make her look better.
Of all Henry VIII's wives, Katharine Parr is the one of whom I knew the least.
Whilst this instalment of the Tudor series does still track the historical events of that time it seems to shift a little to focusing on the human elements of the characters: Henry as a somewhat desperate old man, Katharine as a compassionate, wronged woman, and others of court not as prominent figures but as young men and women with fears and desires.
As this is the book in which we see Henry's death this shift in focus is apt and feels like a natural end to the saga, ahead of focussing on other important characters in the next few instalments - like Margaret and Mary Tudor.
I don’t know why I didn’t start reading Jean Plaidy books much earlier.
I love the tales she weaves, the way she really seems to identify with these historical people.Going into this book, I didn’t know a whole lot about Katherine Parr, and to an extent, I still feel like I don’t.
I don’t think this is any fault of the author, I really think it’s simply because there isn’t a whole lot of information about Katherine Parr out there.
We know so little about her, other than Henry was planning to rid himself of her but died before he could.To read the rest of my review, please visit:http://dorolerium.com/?p=256
This is my favorite Jean Plaidy novel.
It is extremely short in length but very historically accurate from what we know of Katherine Parr and I love the author's elegance in portraying such a unique and important woman in history.
She practically raised the future Edward VI and his sister Elizabeth I and was the only mother either of them ever really knew.
Her influence was expansive over them and she was the wife of Henry VIII to have some sort of political sway in his eyes, which in some respect is the highest complement from such a domineering husband as Henry.
While Katherine Parr was in love with another man, as soon as King Henry VIII decided he would marry her she had no choice but to set that love aside. This books tells her story from a nonfiction point of view as we follow her in the last few years of the King's life. Sadly, when the King dies and Katerine is finally able to be with her true love, she only has a few short years of happiness with him and eventually dies of a broken heart. Her story is tragic.
Can't anyone write an historical novel that implies the immortality that occurred without describing it? I felt super awkward during those descriptions. I should have known what I was getting into - I just read "The King of the Castle" under her pseudonym Victoria Holt, and I didn't like the style at all. I guess it's better than a lot of historical fiction - I wouldn't know, I'm afraid to read much of it, for the immorality.
The first Jean Plaidy book, The Sixth Wife, is my favorite of the four I've read. It is the story of Henry VIII last wife who escaped his wrath by his death and is known in the poem as the one who survived. It is very interesting and I remember thinking how sad her life was in review. Jean Plaidy's books are not easy reads though and I would suggest them for adults or teenagers who have a lot of time to focus. I read it in the summetime.
This book tells the story of Henry VIII's sixth and final wife, Katharine Parr. It is above all, a tragedy, however not in the way that I thought it would be. The stories of Henry VIII's wives are fascinating to me and this book was no exception. It was slow to start but, then I was pulled into the story of Katharine, how she fared as a queen and in other aspects of her life. I recommend this book.
Katherine Parr escaped with her head and her life from the monstrous Henry VIII--and marries the love of her life, Thomas Seymour. However, the politically ambitious Seymour turns out to be "no prize." I learned much about the intelligent, educated Kathrine Parr whose wits saved her life. This novel gives excellent character studies of Princess Elizabeth and Prince Edward VI. Recommended to readers who like the dramatic Tudor period.
I love historical fiction, and it's rare to find a well-written story or a story that's not a bit trashy. I thought I would give this a try, I had never read any of Plaidy's books before and I don't choose books on Katharine Parr too often. I didn't expect much going in...the language was a little too hoity-toity for me and I just got bored after a quarter through the book. So...it's not quite trashy, but poorly written and a bit boring.
