https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10757.Lay_Down_My_Sword_And_Shield
James Lee Burke has a hard on for all things moist and dripping in this, the first Hackberry Holland book, which was released in the early seventies and would not see a sequel until 2009.
Hearing Will Patton, who by the way does a fabulous job on the audiobook, moan and groan and gruffly narrate all these moist and dripping sequences gave this reviewer an uncomfortable trouser situation.
James Lee Burke simply likes pointing out all things moist and dripping.
I haz the vile and villainous man-flu, so I'll likely be dead before the end of this review.
I'd put this Burke book up there with the likes of Steinbeck and Flannery O'Connor.
He listens to absolutely no one, does pretty much whatever he likes, he doesn’t just burn the candle at both ends, no he’s way past that, he burns every candle in the candle making factory at both ends, then burns the factory down and if ever a character pissed you off, Hack will piss you off even more.Lay Down My Sword and Shield was released in 1971, so it’s a year older than me and set in Texas amid the backdrop of the civil rights era, whether it’s terminology is now politically correct, I wouldn’t like to say, probably not but it portrays the era wonderfully well, there’s Cadillac’s, hard ass deputy’s, the oil business, striking farm workers and copious amounts of jack Daniels, jacks (which I think is American lager), beer, bourbon and cigars.Hack is a lawyer with a solid reputation on a path to greater things, he finds himself almost pushed towards political office and even though he does his damnedest to derail the train of office.
It’s #1 in the order but perhaps not the one to start with for readers unfamiliar with his body of work.
As James Lee said in an interview "It got pretty worked over.
Because of that history and the sequels to this novel ♥︎♥︎♥︎ (the first of which did not appear until 2009), this book was republished in 2010.
Suffice it to say that if you are a true fangirl or guy of Hack Holland this is required reading.
Like Hackberry in this novel, James Lee was a young man when this story was written and just like the very best wine, got better with age.
The worst book I have ever read authored by JLB.
The characters, story line, and the book just sucked.
I just didn’t expect such from one of my favorite authors.
Shame on you JLB!
Will be a long time before I select one of your books, if ever.
If you are wondering why I finished this it was only because I was a captive audience listening to it on a long drive home from a trip with no other audio books in my possession.
I never expected such trash from JLB.
Frankly I should have turned it off and listened to the radio.
Lay Down My Sword And Shield by James Lee BurkeThis book details the rebirth of Hackberry Holland.
The hard panned setting and historic family background contribute to his reassessment of his identity.
Describing the book doesn’t really do justice to the story or it’s fluidity.
Hack’s experiences as a POW in Korea are horrific.
Hack’s reactions to his environment and his refusal to be what his family expects him to be as opposed to what he wants to be is a thumbnail of the book’s plot.
Burke’s book was extraordinarily done.
I highly recommend the book.
All the best written scenes are set in flashbacks from his days in the military and that is a major problem with the narrative as the past retains more tension than the present where majority of the book is set.Burke's trademark complex, flawed characters remain present but his fluid description is gone only rearing its head intermittently.
Still there is a smattering of thoughtful passages and enough of a prologue for the Hackberry Holland character for Burke fans to give it a quick read.
Hell, the Texas mouthpiece probably doesn’t even notice just how pissed off he makes me.
When Hack gets lashed back – and good, he’s got himself a cause.If I write this implying Hack Holland is a real life anti-hero doing some strange and violent version of the Texas Two-Step, well, you’ll have to blame James Lee Burke.
Anyone who’s ever read anything by James Lee Burke will know his characters come fitted with torn flesh and broken bone so vivid you too often forget it’s fiction.
While I think Burke is a good writer, his flair for local color and scenic detail sometimes gets in the way of his storytelling, and this is a great example of that.
It's basically the story of a bastard drunk who doesn't care for anyone else's rules yet somehow has a connection to "the little guy" and wants to fight for their civil rights.
If it had been 150 pages shorter, it would have contained the same amount of plot and might have been more involving.
Instead, it's mostly a character study of a character I just couldn't be that interested in.
Early writing that shows his potential but seems to be reaching. Really wanted to read it before the others in the series and not sorry I did. There is a big time gap between this and the next book which I am starting now. I truly expect the writing to have grown to what I expect in a JLB book.If this had been my first JLB it may have been the last.
James Lee Burke can certainly turn a phrase. I enjoy the lyric and often irreverent language, and find Hack Holland (both the old man our Hack admires, and our Hack himself) an altogether pleasant protagonist - which is not the same as being pleasant all the time.
I'm a huge fan of James Lee Burke's Dave Robicheaux books, and I wasn't willing to accept that Burke could make me as interested in another protagonist, but he did!
Hack Holland is a hard-drinking attorney and Congressional candidate who is following other peoples'
First published in 1971, this had the author's usual descriptive and vivid writing along with realistic characterizations. I really enjoyed the audio version which was ably narrated by Will Patton.
First in the Hackberry Holland series revolving around an alcoholic lawyer trying to find himself after his release from a Korean POW camp while trying to live up to his family legend.My TakeKeep in mind that Burke wrote this in 1971 at the end of the Vietnam War.Burke spends most of the book setting Hack up for his transformation.
I'm curious if Hack began questioning the people---their motives and thoughts---of his social milieu because of his experiences in Korea and the friendships he made with his fellow soldiers.
By the time we survive Hack's ephiphany, I think we all are ready to lay that shield down as well.
Lay Down My Sword and Shield, by James Lee Burke, narrated by Will Patton, produced by Simon and Schuster Audio, downloaded from audible.com.Again, this is read by Will Patton who could read the phone book for me.
I would have understood the main character, Hackberry Holland, better if I had.Publisher’s note:The hero of James Lee Burke's recent best-seller Rain Gods, cousin to lawman Billy Bob Holland and a genuine product of the South, both old and new, HackberryHolland makes his first appearance in this early gem from "America's best novelist" (The Denver Post).
As a rule I do not like hardboiled crime novels or thrillers and I do not find overly macho books fun to read.
But somehow James Lee Burke is the exeption to the rule.
His stories appeal to me, maybe they reach the male side of me, connect to the man I would have been if genetic chance hadn't created me a woman, I don't know.
They all are of course wounded warriors, romantic idealists and secretly soft as butter inside, waiting to be saved by the right kind of woman.
– Hack in this great novel is the archetype of them all, right down to his fishtailed Cadillac.
All enhanced by the astounding voice of Will Patton.
Patton totally captured the era and region and enmeshed one totally in the story.
The way he did the Senator's lisp was brilliant.
Hack's wife and brother want him to run for the Senate but Hack gets distracted when he gets a call for help from an ex Army buddy.
Hack can't seem to let go and concentrate of the bid for the senate.
He becomes entangled deeper with workers and rubs the local law enforcement the wrong way.
Written in 1971, this is one of JLB’s earliest works.
As always with Burke, the lead character is a deeply flawed: a hard drinker plagued by visions of his capture by Chinese during the Korean War. He is constantly in conflict with those around him as he struggle with his demons and tries to balance his career commitments and aspirations with a growing desire to support migrant farm workers who are striking for higher wages.
James Lee Burke is one of best writers of our times. He is one of the few writers whose books I will purchase in hard cover because I can't wait for the paperback version to come out.
der Auftakt einer Reihe sollte vor den Fortsetzungen erscheinen. Das hätte dem Buch gut getan...so kennt man quasi den Ausgang der Geschichte schon.
i kept thinking how, when this was written in the late-60s/70, this was current events. i was in calfornia, through the southwest, and colorado at the time, and i remember.
This horrendous experience, filled with pain, and conditions designed to create self-loathing in the prisoners, Hack survives and gets to go home.
Meanwhile, Hack drives everywhere at 90 mph, drinks Jack Daniels like it is his personal quest to keep JD's stock price up, spends his time with whores, and in a drunken haze tries to share his POW experiences with whatever woman will listen--except his wife.Then he gets a call from a former marine whom he served with in Korea.
The buddy of his, a Hispanic man, got arrested for assaulting a law officer on a migrant farmer's union picket, witnessed by two Texas rangers.
Lay Down My Sword and Shield by James Lee BurkeWe’ve read about Hackberry Holland the Texas Sheriff a few times, but this is Burke’s third novel, and Hack’s first appearance as a hard drinking womanizing defense attorney.
After Burke’s descriptions of Hack’s drinking, you’ll feel the hangover and wonder if you can walk a straight line.
And you’ll meet old-fashioned bigoted and dishonest Texas lawmen who just might turn you into a liberal.I’m glad I’ve read the other books featuring Hackberry Holland before this one.
Had I not, I wonder if I would have ventured into another of his stories.
This 1971 novel is Burke's third work and his first with a recurring character - although Hackberry Holland would not recur until 38 years later, with Rain Gods (2009).
He is also struggling with an unloving marraige, recurring nightmares of his time as a Korean P.O.W. and too many bottles of Jack Daniels (the struggle with alcohol being a theme repeated by Burke through the years).
Hackberry Holland—a Texas attorney, Korean War vet, and candidate for Congress—is haunted by memories of his days as a POW and driven to finding relief at the bottom of endless bottles of alcohol and in public displays of potentially career-ending behavior.
audiobook read by Will Patton who is perfect for Burke's writing.Written in 1971Though I had read 2 other Hack Holland books it was a while ago and took me a while to connect to this back story and realize that.
It does give a vivid picture of the torments the main character goes through and tries to avoid by drinking, drinking and more drinking, the main pastime of almost everyone in this particular book.
They seemed more like a vehicle for the main character's life change.Burke does have a lovely way with words even when the topics are ugly.
Hack is tired of the way his life is going.
He is being pushed to run for Congress, his brother is after him constantly to stop his drinking and work harder at their law firm and his marriage is all but non-existent.
When a war buddy is in need Hack goes South to try and keep him out of prison.
During this fight Hack finds a new reason to exist and a woman to share this new life with.
The reader will see the continued evolution of Burke's writing that will lead to the Dave Robicheaux series.
A very good novel and a must for Burke readers.
I read this after I had read Rain Gods. It is the beginning of Hack's adulthood and his rejection of success and corruption that he must embrace in spite of his awareness that he is a fallen and prone to error man. Read with Rain Gods, this book is similar to Henry V, which ends with a cautionary during the gorgeous ceremony at the end of the play. Things erode and fall apart and we deteriorate with our world. If our souls follow our bodies, then what?
This book got better the more I got into it. I actually read it because I had read another book by the same author, The Glass Rainbow, which I liked better. I certainly got an education on the plight of migrant and farm workers, even though I lived through the strikes lead by Cesar Chavez. A good story with a message about social morality and responsibility.
Love James Lee Burke and his morosely reflective characters Dave Robicheaux and Hack Holland...I've enjoyed a number of Hack Holland novels, but missed the 1st one...I got a lot of backstory regarding Hack's failed run for Congress and 1st marriage...Great Read!!!
He's my favorite author. Read a Burke book and your in a dark theater by yourself surrounded and engulfed by his images. I've read them all but can only do so once every 3-4 months because in the end they are their message about the human condition is not hopeful.
