https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1116771.Curious_George_Learns_the_Alphabet
My son from birth has always been surrounded with Curious George. Today at the ripe old age of 3 he travels everywhere with his stuffed George doll, and morning cuddle time he is a mainstay. He loves the cartoons on PBS as well. For me, I remember as a kid going to my ped. for Dr. appts, always looking for a certain George book, (George Goes to the Hospital) for the waiting room. Luckily it was always available in the waiting room. A couple years ago I found a beautiful hardcover boxset at B&amp
Today at the ripe old age of 3 he travels everywhere with his stuffed George doll, and morning cuddle time he is a mainstay.
for Dr. appts, always looking for a certain George book, (George Goes to the Hospital) for the waiting room.
A couple years ago I found a beautiful hardcover boxset at B&N that I thought would make a great Xmas gift for my son, and it included the Hospital book along with this one.
The simplicity and innocense of the time period when written is highly apparent which for me I want for my son.
The little p is a little penguin!" Going through 52 of such exercises is incredibly repetitive, and the book even acknowledges this by having the poacher interrupt every so often to allow George to write, have a snack, take a nap, or in one bizarre interlude, practice football plays.
I guess all those houses and helicopters and convertibles aren't going to just pay for themselves.The poacher is incredibly bossy and demanding in this one, though George ultimately does learn to read and write, which is incredible, really.
OK if the child already has an understanding of the alphabet.
This book highlights all of the letters of the alphabet, referring to "Big A" and "Small A", etc.
The book is quite lengthy, so if you are reading to a very small child who is just learning the alphabet, it may be a hard sell.
Xmas is used for the letter X.
I think that a better "X word" could be used, than Xmas.
Also there are words like "dromedary" and "nuisance," which would be difficult for a young child.
Awards the book has received (if any): noneAppropriate grade level(s): pre-k through firstOriginal 3-line summary: Curious George wants to learn how to read and so the man in the yellow hat has to teach him.
They go throughout their day and the man in the yellow hate shows George the relation between words and letters.Original 3-line review: I like that this book isn't just your normal alphabet book telling you the alphabet and giving an example.
The fun part of this book is that when the man in the yellow hat decides to teach George the alphabet, he creatively draws each capital and small letter into an object or animal that begins with that letter, which can be a really great memory device to help preschoolers recall letters. What I didn't love was that every few letters, the man and George begin to put the letters together to make words, but would include more difficult concepts that weren't covered and really shouldn't be covered yet, like vowel teams and silent-e.
Not as good as Curious George's ABCs. This one is too advanced, unless they already have a grasp on ABCs already. It includes capital and lowercase letters. But also, the word "nuisance". I think that's a bit much for an ABC book.
Yellow hatted man, finally not abandoning George, teaches the alphabet
Ok, but really really long. Too long.
4 stars because George. OK, and my daughter loves this one. She's almost 3 and obsessed with letters. This is a pretty wordy book and she sits for the whole thing.
decent, jeffers AB book & F.Brooks AB books are better...btu curious george is sucha lovable character.nothing fancy. but captivates the nephew.
What a creative way to introduce all 26 alphabets to new readers. Big and small letters and some are related to George’s earlier experience in the earlier books.
The man in the yellow hat teaches George the alphabet. A cute way to go over the alphabet.
My daughter LOVED it
As the man with the yellow hat explains each letter, he uses little vingettes of George's experience ("You know what a cab is.
I once took you for a ride in a cab, remember?") which will be familiar to Curious George fanatics, but fall flat for those only mildly acquainted with the monkey's back story.
But for me, the last straw was the page I skipped which read X is for Xmas and the text, "Santa stands for Xmas.
It's clear from the reviews that this is not your typical Curious George book.
This is something altogether different - an ABC book with a real story, interspersed with short words to give a sense of meaning to the effort of learning letters.
It may even be a good review for some early readers who are getting confused about the shapes of letters still (b/p/d, etc...) My only disappointment is the letter X - for Xmas and Santa.
It's still a very helpful book.I found a font that is exactly the same as the book and printed letters for my little one to trace so she can learn how to recognize/write the letters too.
This book is different from the rest of the Curious George series, because it is primarily devoted to introducing each letter of the alphabet by transforming the letter into an animal or other object.
This makes the text a bit contrived, but it does help the fledgling reader see how the letters he or she is learning are used to create the words of the story.While this book shouldn't be the primary introduction to the letters of the alphabet, it is a good supplement for an alphabet lesson, especially for children who have enjoyed the other Curious George books.
1) Awards: none2) Grades: Preschool- 13) In this book the man in the yellow hat teaches George how to write his letters.
Most letter books are strictly about the alphabet but this fits into the Curious George series so there is a story attached.
I like that it can help children learn how to spell the letters.
This is a series most children are familiar with and using the characters they already know can help the children understand the letters better.
This can help the children associate the thing with the letter and help them remember how to write it and what it sounds like.
This is a good alphabet book for older children.
I imagine this is helpful for children who are more visual learners.
Another nice thing is that on each letter page, that letter is highlighted a different color in the text, so children can more easily pick out how often it is used.The story is broken up occasionally by longer explanations or narrative, which makes the book longer, but might be helpful in not giving children "alphabet overload."I thought the choice for X was odd.
He also makes lots of mistakes, but eventually he learns the alphabet.This Book would be great to read to children learning the alphabet.
Lots of kids love Curious George so they would love getting to learn the alphabet with him too.
With lots of big, bright pictures and big letters showing what the alphabet looks like this book would be very easy for younger kids to observe and get into.
As a teacher I would read this book with my students as we learned the alphabet and have them make an educated guess as to which letter George should be learning next.
This book includes the loveable monkey, George, and the Man With The Yellow Hat. George is being taught the Alphabet's Upper and Lower Case letters through animals and words that he already knows.
The focused letter on each page has the letter highlighted throughout the paragraph reading, showing that letters are everywhere.
The illustrations include the letter in them and the accompanying paragraph explains how the letter looks, how to write the letter, and colorful examples.
I would recommend using this book to assist early readers in identifying the correct way to write letters and words that includes the specific letter.
Letters are used to describe animals and common objects that little monkeys, boys, and girls use.
I have always loved Curious George, so a adorable book about my favorite monkey learning the alphabet was perfect to read.To me this book would be perfect to use in a therapy session with a bilingual student, or a student who struggles with English.
Throughout this book the capital and lower case letters are used to describe animals and ordinary objects.
It would be the perfect book to read before a session dealing with language, articulation, or possibly a young client learning the alphabet.
This is a great idea, but definitely too advanced to be useful for my 23-mo-old son.
The man with the yellow hat teaches George about the alphabet by drawing pictures from the letters that look like something that begins with that letter.
he does it for big and small versions of every letter in the alphabet.
It's a great idea, but my son isn't even old enough to understand the concept of "words that begin with the letter"...
but it could be a great tool to help older kids.
Seriously awesome alphabet book that teaches not only letters but how they can be remembered by incorporating the letter into a picture (both upper and lowercase forms). I love that this also moves even the earliest readers to think about taking letters and making words - it pairs nicely with the Endless Alphabet app where kids move scattered letters into words. This book also inspired a round of playing school and redrawing some of our favorite pictures/letters on the board. Perfectly suitable for my 2 year old daughter.
This isn't good for teaching the alphabet the first time around, but it's a good review for a young child who has already (recently) learned the alphabet; it emphasizes lowercase equally with capital letters and begins with some spelling of some words.
It's a little long and drawn out, but for my daughter, who can already recognize and write all uppercase letters, it was a good refresher--and I hope a motivator to begin sounding out words--and it had George, of course.
I like the way it tied back into previous Curious George stories.
It really works best if you've read the others first.
This is a very long and pretty complex ABC book, so definitely still far above my son's level (~1.5 yrs), but I still enjoyed reading it to him. Sometimes hearing me read a longer book helps settle him down to sleep and a lot of Curious George we've read so far has fit that bill. This will be a great one to use as he gets older to help teach the alphabet. It goes over upper and lower case for each letter and incorporates each into a picture of something starting with that letter which I thought was very clever.
Learn the Alphabet with Curious George. A book from my childhood :)
I would suggest this book for young children go have just recently learned their alphabet. This book gives you words of different people and things that start with a certain letter. This book has a few pretty big words for children under 6 years old so I would suggest a parent reading this book to children at least the first time the book is introduced. This book is very informative and great for learning in the classroom or at home.
I did not like that the line "Fish looked "gay"". Granted it was written in 1973 but still. It could have been revised. Also for the letter X they wrote X-mas. REALLY?! How about a X-ray? or a Xylophone? Or for the animal theme go with an Xenurine which is an armadillo. Taking Christ out of Christmas is wrong EVEN for a Childrens book. Too big a word? Well for the letter D they used dromedary which I had no idea it was a one humped camel.
Added to permanent collection for Theodore. Possibly the best alphabet book out there! This is a frequent re-read for us. We checked out the version of this alphabet book from the library from the audio collection. It included the book in paperback and an audio CD. We played the CD on our drive to palm desert this morning while Emerson leafed through the book in the backseat he enjoyed it but the reading was accompanied by a raunchy jazz saxophone Philip hated.
This is one of the stories in The Complete Adventures of Curious George 70th Anniversary Edition. I just read through the whole book. I'm reading or in this case rereading through two of the 100 best books lists. One from the Times and one from the Telegraph. Curious George time. I don't remember if I read this as a child or not, but now I have (again perhaps)
