https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3827.Unnatural_Causes
Unnatural Causes (Adam Dalgliesh #3), P.D. James (Phyllis Dorothy James, Baroness James of Holland Park)Unnatural Causes (1967) is a detective novel by English crime writer P.
While staying with his Aunt Jane in Suffolk, Adam Dalgliesh stumbles across a most bizarre and frightening murder.
جیمز متولد 1920 میلادی ملکه جدید جنایت، از نویسندگان صاحب سبک جدید رمان های پلیسی محسوب میشود.
او پنهانی ترین اندیشه های انسان را بیان میکند، هنر شخصیت پردازی قابل اعتنا با طنزی ظریف، روزنامه ی تایم او را بزرگترین نویسنده ی رمان پلیسی امروز جهان میداند.
While considering this change, he goes to stay with his aunt, Jane Dalgliesh.
An avid bird watcher, she lives in a small community near Monksmere bird reserve, which seems to be populated (apart from her) mostly by writers – either authors or critics.
This macabre death throws the small group of writers into recriminations, suspicion and fear.
Although this novel is set amongst a group of authors, which should appeal to me, I found this less enjoyable – or perhaps less believable – than the previous book.
I am, though, enjoying re-reading the series very much and enjoyed learning a little more about the taciturn Dalgliesh.
یکی از مشکلات تصور مکان ماجرا و اون دماغه و ...
بود - واقعا در تصور اوصاف شکست خوردم تو این کتاب.
حس می کنم نوع روایت و تعلیق ماجرا هم چنگی به دل نمی زداما مهمترین مشکل - که شاید باقی مشکلاتم هم از دل اون براومده باشن - ترجمه بود.
اغراق نیست بگم از هر چهار جمله یه جمله مشکل داشت - یا حذف شده بود یا درست ترجمه نشده بود.
البته این داغونی اگر صرفا به متن فارسی نگاه کنید چندان به چشم نمی آد - مگه بواسطه ی ابهام های مفهومی گاه به گاهحتی عنوان کتاب هم درس ترجمه نشده، نویسنده در عنوان داره به مرگی به ظاهر طبیعی اشاره می کنه؛ یعنی مرگ به "علل طبیعی" نبوده بلکه به "علل غیرطبیعی" بوده
Through the years I've read some of P.D. James' mysteries featuring Adam Dagleish.
And I've seen some of the books portrayed in television dramas.
But I have definitely not read or seen this one.
Dagleish takes a holiday to visit his Aunt, who lives near the coast.
It is winter,and James writing brings that forcefully to mind as Adam is caught up in a murder investigation that takes him out to deal with the elements.
I didn't care for the recording artist who read the book, either.
But James' elegant writing saves the audio version.
The premise is wonderful and the opening scenes really grab you into the story.
One then feels like they are sinking, with no escape and that pretty much sums up the narrative.I found the characters a little TOO similar.
There is the derogatory language towards a girl who isn’t “pretty” and so on.What I did like was James’ eye for the social detail.
It was all very disappointing.Read this book for the social commentary, for the open chapter, and for the wonderful storm scene, but give that mystery a miss.
Instead, she has him discover the how about 75 pages from the end, but though he tells the detective in charge of the investigation (Dalgliesh himself is on vacation visiting his aunt and not officially involved with the case) and helps to solve the murder, James keeps this revelation from the reader, which feels to me like a cheat.
But to the suspects the day would bring a gratifying vindication and they could be expected to make the most of it."Well, since I'm in there, as an observer along with the suspects because James keeps so much hidden from the reader, I feel that Dalgliesh is tired of me, too.
The explanation of the mystery is made by a taped confession of the murderer which is listened to after she has died attempting to kill an additional two people.
During the confession you discover that the murderer has actually killed more people than you were originally aware of.Although I can understand why the author needed to end her book this abruptly because of a lack of space, I still am giving the book only 3 stars.
June 1967 Birthday Read2.5 stars rounding to 3 stars because I can't stand the thought of PD getting 2 stars!I don't believe this was a case of me not wanting to read, but more this book not capturing me. And it should have, a mystery writer found dead in a small English seaside town. And I love Inspector Dalgliesh. Maybe I didn't pay attention in the beginning, but I had a really hard time keeping track of the townspeople. And I'm glad that 50 years have passed so books no longer have derogatory words to describe gay men!
Written in the sixties, this mystery is done in the English/Agatha Christie style.
A middle-class man is murdered and the police find him surrounded by quirky, irritating characters, all of whom have motive and opportunity.
Who cares?James' strong suit is characters, to the point where it's overkill.
In a modern mystery, we might meet the characters, understand them, and move on.
Not really.James does a decent job of building a complex mystery.
But in the end the solution is too bizarre to accept: too complicated, too impossible, even if the motives make sense.
Unnatural Causes, third in the Adam Dalgleish series, is one of them.
With what I think to be one of the most perfectly written opening chapters of any mystery novel I have ever read, Unnatural Causes does not disappoint.
Including, again ironically, Adam Dalgleish, poet extraordinaire, who is on holiday in Suffolk where the dead author lived and eventually turned up after his death.
In this one, definitely the beginning is more satisfying than the end with its beautifully written first chapter and the introduction of an interesting collection of characters and a most puzzling mystery.
I think this is the best P.
D. James I've read so far.
The story is a ripper.
James's writing is, as always, absolutely great--intelligent without overshadowing the story or bringing too much attention to itself.
I'm noticing a tendency for her to set her stories near the water in small, closeknit communities.
Obviously such a setting fits sensibly with the British murder mystery genre, but it is also naturally evocative and interesting.
It must be a conscious choice on her part as I don't imagine much in her writing to be accidental.
So far, I don't think this is a handicap, though it could obviously be one.
A short take:I am sad to write that this book is my least favorite of the first three Dalgliesh books.
The one ingredient that kept me involved was, of course, Dalgliesh.
I am seriously considering following this book with the next volume--which I don't often do in this genre--so as to read the caliber of Dalgliesh mystery I had hoped for.
More thoughts:One benefit to reading this tale is that it lead me to look up H.H. Crippen, who was charged with murdering his wife in the early 20C and apprehended abroad with the help of telegraphy.
I very much enjoyed the quality of the prose but found it difficult to sympathize with any of the characters.
Even Dalgliesh and his Aunt–both of whom seem to have more dimension that the other flat, insipid, self absorbed residents of Monksmere Head–were provided with so little context and backstory that I felt very little connection.
Aunt Jane seemed to be someone I would like to know better, but James never provides the reader with the chance in this book.
I'm not writing James off, but I'm certianly not racing out to get another Adam Dalgliesh novel–he's no Peter Wimsey.
It was old fashioned and something I was in the mood for.
Unfortunately the plot was full of characters that didn't resonate with me.
And worse, he just wasn't very interesting as a character.
He writes poetry, but seemed in a foul mood throughout this novel and not in any kind of endearing way.
The murder itself is far too elaborately plotted, and the motives behind the crimes kind of just ring hollow.
But I've liked other novels by P.D. James, so I'm not going to hold this one against her.
In this third Adam Dalgleish mystery, I've come to realize that with P.D. James, the pleasure is in the prose and the characters, not so much in solving the mystery.
Unlike some writers who plant clues and red herrings so the reader can attempt to keep up with the detective and solve the case, James' mysteries (at least those I've read so far) end in unpredictable ways because they hinge on information the reader cannot know or predict.
Usually I find a mystery that springs information on the reader at the end to be quite annoying -- unfairly breaking the unspoken rules of the game.
It is gross but has a great descriptions of a murdered victim set adrift in a dinghy – a “corpse without hands.” (page 7) This Adam Dalgliesh mystery is a fairly fast-paced read with interesting plot twists and an odd (and mostly unappealing) assortment of characters.
On vacation at his Aunt Jane’s, Adam has personal issues to contemplate when he is plunged into the bizarre situations of looking on as the local police officer investigates the murder of his Aunt’s neighbor.
The storyline includes a gripping storm sequence where Adam must escape a cottage via the rooftop before it is swept away into the sea.
And even though I didn't get as good a grasp on the characters in Unnatural Causes as I did when I read the first two AD novels, I was generally okay with her characterisation work here too.
Is this a fake-out?" The ensuing denouement was also laughably hackneyed, even more so when I recall that Dalgliesh actually thinks to himself at one point in the novel that one of the reasons he can't bring himself to read much detective fiction is because of how its heroes always seem to wind up solving cases based on evidence he himself couldn't even get a warrant with, or confessions that no one in their right mind would give.
This book could be called "Unnecessarily Complicated Causes." It also suffered from a fair amount of boring descriptive passages about scenery and houses, and characters who were too similar and ill-defined to keep track of.
It ended with a too-convenient confession on tape, found after the murderer too-conveniently died.
Also, the murderer's death comes at the end of a superficially dramatic adventure scene, involving an attempted rescue from a flooding house during a storm, which was irrelevant and uninteresting.
Also irrelevant and uninteresting were all the sections of the book treating the Inspector's ambivalence about his long-distance girlfriend who does not appear in the book herself.
לאחר תקופה לחוצה ופיענוח פרשיית רצח, יוצא הבלש לנפוש אצל דודתו במונקסמיר ולקבל החלטה בדבר המשך יחסיו עם דבורה ריסקו.
דבורה רוצה להתחתן, ודגליש צריך לקבל החלטה האם להפוך אותה לחלק מרכזי בחייו?כבר בלילה הראשון כשהוא מגיע לדודתו, מתחילה להתגלגל הפרשייה, שהוא לא ממונה על פיתרונה, אלא יותר משמש כמשקיף, המעניק לקורא מהתובנות שלו.הסופרת מכירה את בני עמה התחרותיים והקטנוניים משהו.
מרוכזים בעיקר בעצמם ובהצלחה שלהם.
קבוצת סופרים של ספרי מתח ומבקרי ספרי מתח שהאגו שלהם גדול מתכנסים בחרדה כשחברם נעלם.
אבל האם באמת מדובר ברצח?יש בפתרון העלילה תחכום מסויים והספר קולח גם כאשר דגליש אינו הבלש המרכזי בספר.

I've always enjoyed reading books by P.D. James, especially when I travel. This murder mystery takes place in an isolated British writers' community inhabited by some quirky residents. A writer is found in a boat that drifts ashore with his hands cut off. Vacationing Scotland yard detective superintendent Adam Dalgliesh is sucked into the case because he is staying with his aunt in the area at the time.Unnatural Causes is not the best of the Dalgliesh novels, but it is quite good.

This is the 3rd Adam Dalgliesh novel and we are starting to get a better insight into him, as the plot involves Adam taking a holiday to see his aunt in her home in a small community in Suffolk.
However, in my mind the association is enough to increase the sense of menace further.Aunt Dalgliesh lives in close proximity to a number of writers and outrageous gossips.
A handless body is found and it is clear that the murderer is one of the isolated community.
Adam Dalgliesh is not directly investigating the case, but it would be impossible for him to ignore it.
Unnatural Causes by P.D. James is the third in a series featuring Adam Dalgliesh, a Scotland Yard inspector. While visiting his aunt, Adam becomes involved in the sudden death of Maurice Seton, a famous mystery writer. His corpse is found in a floating rowboat with both hands chopped off at the wrists. Adam tries to remain distant from the local investigation , but soon gets drawn into the bizarre circumstances and the unusual lineup of possible suspects.
An atmospheric mystery set on the British coast. I enjoyed the slow roll-out of the mystery and the resolution by Detective Dalgliesh. P.D. James has an intriguing writing style. I'll be checking out more of her books in time.
1.5 stars. I did finish it, but will be loath to try another James book.
4.5 stars. The third in the series and my favourite so far. The story is very unique and the descriptions of the storm tossed Suffolk coast mirrored the inner turmoil of Dalgeish.
Regalo de mami. Primer libro leído de esta autora. Atrapante.
Book 3: in which Adam Dalgliesh gets told off for preferring beautiful, graceful women and then his girlfriend dumps him for his ambivalence :)
Old audio edition read by Marsden. Very good
