https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/367596.Manias_Panics_and_Crashes
If you're looking for a colorful, narrative history of financial bubbles, this book is not for you.
Towards that end, he tends to pick a feature, then run through ten or twenty examples of how that feature worked during past bubbles.
That leads to a lot of repetition, but by the end of the book, you definitely get a clear sense of how the Minsky model views bubbles.
You'll definitely need to hit Wikipedia to refresh your macro-economic knowledge-- especially at the end of the book, during the discussions of Domestic and International Lenders of Last Resort.
Was a bit disappointing,most of the book is about events that happened more than 100 years ago,short coverage of the last 80 years.The book reads like 10 different people wrote parts of itand didn't know what others were writing.Some events are covered multiple times,the south sea bubble has 16 entries, often saying the same thing.Treasury sec Paulson was called Mr. Bailout in 2 separate parts that read the same.I totally disagree that Lehmann bro should have been bailed out.They piled on billions of dollars of extra debt the last 10 months trying to become a "too big to fail" bank.Fuld should have gone to prison for that and other things.The author seems to think "money flows" were more important thanthe corrupt rating agencies giving AAA to junk bonds.
Highly disappointing read. I read the book based on its reputation as the definitive work on extreme economic valuations.I found a disconcertingly disjointed presentation. The book reads like a random sampling of the author's thoughts. There was not a linear/cohesive presentation of any of the historical bubbles.
Kindleberger uses Hyman Minsky's "anatomy" of financial crises to discuss commonalities between a number of different financial panics from different countries at different times in history.
But in fact, Kindleberger uses the generic "crisis anatomy" as the structure of the book, touching on each episode only as it relates to a given part of the anatomy.
This can be disorienting for the reader who is not already familiar with the episodes, which description I imagine fits virtually all readers.For those interested in the generic anatomy of crises, I think it's better to read Minsky himself, who is pretty accessible.
A good introductory book to the history of financial cycles, but only for people with some background in economics.
Many times it felt like an endless list of historical examples that illustrate an idea.
The idea that financial crises across the world are connected is repeated ad nauseam.
Lehman Brothers didn't deserve its own chapter.It doesn't read as a treatise on the economics causes and consequences of financial cycles, panics, etc., and it doesn't read as an economic history book.
I don't like the organization of the content by chapters.I still recommend the book, if you are very interested in the topic.
This book was referred to by another book I've been reading. This copy as gifted to me by my alma mater at an event where Professor Aliber, the co-author of this edition, spoke. One of the most dense and therefore challenging books I've read. Every paragraph is jammed with facts. I think the book would be better if it had a few graphs and ignored corruption. There's plenty to digest here without getting into Ponzi, Madoff, or Enron. I also think some more perspective on why credit bubbles get inflated would have been helpful.
I think it would have been a lot more fun to sit down and talk with Kindleberger about his theories than to read this book. He clearly knew a lot on the subject, and I generally agreed with his ideas, but I found the way the book was organized hard to follow. A case of, "I'd have done it differently if I was writing it."
Ad Majorem Gloriam Dei,Bir Keynesyen olan Kindleberger bu kitabında nihai olarak piyasanın zor koşullarında (ki o bunu şu 3 basamak altında inceliyor: Cinnet,Panik,Çöküş) bir karar mercii olup olmaması gerektiğine cevap arıyor. 1620'den Asya krizine değin geniş bir zaman diliminde Kriz analizleri yapan yazar akademik nitelikte doyurucu bir eser sunuyor.İyi Okumalar.
Important material delivered in a dry, difficult to follow narrative.
Bailed early; just could not get into the topic, and the sentence structure and phrasing felt odd.keywords: bubble finance recession
Written by an eminent economic historian, this book outlines what I believe is the standard view of bubbles, crashes and financial panics -- three closely related but not identical topics.
The author's account goes something like this:From time to time the price of some class of assets starts to rise and people get excited.
The first third of the book documents this process.As speculators pile in, the price of the asset grows higher than can be justified based on future cash flows.
Interesting book, I would have been able to appreciate it more if I had a better grounding in economic and monetary theory
The data in this book is very rich indeed, but the read was however rather confusing, in my opinion because of the way the author keeps jumping through history and countries without establishing contexts or a timeline for reasons which seemed to me to be meant to justify categories and groupings that to me seemed not very obvious or at least only useful with the perfect 20/20 hindsight vision of the past.
except with a better timeline maybe :D It's confusing to jump centuries back and forth, skipping countries without contexts.
Given the events of the last 10 years, which so closely mapped to the de-emphasis of financial regulation by President Bush and the resulting toxic mortgage derivative scams that triggered both the mania of 2004-2006 and the panic that culminated in US financial collapse in 2008-2009, I seriously doubt that Kindleberger’s conclusions could have changed, as the model he revealed matches the current events with surreal accuracy.All of his conclusions are drawn from analysis of historical events dating back to 1720, and give a clear and consistent picture of how bubbles and crashes work.
If you want to learn how to identify downcycles early, and to understand their progression and eventual end, look no further than Kindleberger's work.While other worthy tomes, such as "History of Financial Disasters in 3 Volumes" cover much of the same material, the original organization of Kindleberger's work is what commends it.
He disentangles the narrative of many financial disasters into their component parts, then works to educate the reader how to identify which phase of the financial cycle the reader finds himself.
And he was right!If there was only one book I could recommend on how to understand and navigate financial crises, it would be this book.
Anyone who picks up this book hoping it may help make sense of what's going on in the world and the economy would be bitterly disappointed.
Majority of the text reads as one long list of historic events that author doesn't even recount, but simply refers to.
If you haven't read extensively on the history of the events in question it probably would make very little sense and a rather tedious reading.
The book also produces an impression of being hopelessly dated, as neither NASDAQ boom-bust of 2000s neither global crisis of 2008 are included.
There have been many attempts to explain the GFC – greed, irrational behaviours, bell curve, derivatives, excessive leverage, failures by rating agencies, regulatory failure, etc, which all can be groups as a demand side shock.
This indicates, the next financial crisis will occur where this excess capital ends up triggered by whatever the demand side shock mentioned above meaning as long as there is this excess capital, another crisis is inevitable.
There may be a way to track the flows of this capital but the financial transaction tax being largely rebuffed by free market capitalists, there does not appear to be any other means to predict or curtail the next crisis but just wait it to happen.
That said it is probably the most complete book on the history and causes of economic upheavals from the 17th century to 2010 available to the non-economist.In particular the authors have identified what they call the 4 waves of international financial disaster in the last 40 years.
If you take the time to work your way through this book you will come away with a more sophisticated understanding of words such as "credit" , "liquidity" and "asset prices" and how they are interrelated.
You will also come to understand how basic human nature rather than complex financial strategies underlie decisions which repeatedly cycle from beneficial to disastrous consequences for humanity.
I enjoyed this book first as an economics student in my undergraduate college course of study.
It was read back then as a means to achieving a passing grade on a section test in the economics class.
I recently had cause to re-read this book, and was surprised to be able to observe the connections between historical financial crises and economic events in our current economy.
If you want to understand more about today's current economic events in Cypress and Greece and what these mean to the US, Chinese and Russian economies, you should study Kindleberger's book.
The 2000 edition reads like a playbook for the collapse and bailout of of 2008.
Both the descriptions and proscriptions of this book, especially its focus on the lender of last resort, seem to be amazingly prescient though it probably just that this iconic text was on the bookshelf of every major player in the fed at the time.
The book is not written for a general audience and some of the econ jargon gave me trouble as a non-specialist but it's not insurmountable.
It is a historical and non-quantitative book so it's still a very interesting overview of the many global financial crises since ~1600.
This book was incredibly dense and difficult to read. While Kindleberger knows his stuff, he fails to organise it in a way that is accessible or comprehensible. There are one or two chapters that are (relatively) easy to follow, but the majority leap from historical crisis to crisis with little in the way of context or explanation. This reads like an academic treatise written exclusively for tenured professors in their ivory towers, rather than a book that I can recommend to a lay person interested in financial crises and their causes.
Like Samuelson says on the cover, I read it and re-read it and thus had no need to kick myself during the Great Recession. I eschewed real estate and stocks and had my my money in CDs earning 4 to 5.5%. Thank you, Mr. Kindleberger! This is not a page-turner so much as a tome of wisdom: to paraphrase Judge Reinhold in "Fast Times at Ridgemont High:" Learn it, know it, live it. A major inspiration for my own first book, the upcoming "The Case of the Cleantech Con Artist: A True Vegas Tale."
This book has not been updated to explain the current crisis, but it doesn't really need to be. It seems that all crashes have some similar elements. This book is not easy to read, but it is a great analysis of several economic crashes throughout history (from the Holland Tulip crisis to the dot com bust) and explains what happens to the markets and people. Very interesting. Wish I had read it a few years ago.
I read this book as background research for my economics dissertation. As a history of the causes of, and minutia behind, the many financial crashes and scares the financial services industry has served up during its long and torrid history, it is very good. While the subject matter may not appeal to everyone, a book like this provides essential support for the truism that those who ignore history are condemned to repeat it. So, read it.
Quite an unusual book. Instead of taking crises case by case, the author divides them on stages and gives a very detailed description of what happened on this or that stage, what are the similarities. This is a rare example of literary economics. It can be a very nice reference book but reading it is a bit hard
I was in the last class taught by CPK at Tech and count myself very fortunate - the late professor had an insight we have had to relearn painfully in this last financial crisis: there is no "normal distribution" in economic affairs. Crises are only to be expected.
gave up listening to an audio version of this text about a third of the way in. it is flabergasting to me how an author could devise such a dull treatment of such a fascinating subject.okay between this and the movie 1408 i now know to avoid any book/movie recommendations by russ winter..
Everyone that opens this books has an opportunity to learn something new. While the author's writing style can be boring sometimes, one cannot but praise his efforts to be systematic in his historical description of financial manias and panics.
The classic economic history of capitalisms record of booms and busts. A great antidote to the famous phrase: this time it's different. When you hear this phrase of a boom, sell your shares. Anyway a steady walk through the madness of markets and why free unregulated markets are an insane idea.
7/10
