https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11902.Twenty_Four_Hours_a_Day
Known as 'the little black book' among AA folks, this is a daily reader.
Many read a passage every morning & contemplate it through the day.
I did so for a couple of years.
While it definitely has a Christian bias, it strives to leave religion out & concentrate on spirituality.
It starts off with a wonderful Sanskrit proverb:Look to this day,For it is life,The very life of life.In its brief course lie allThe realities and verities of existence,The bliss of growth,The splendor of action,The glory of power --For yesterday is but a dream,And tomorrow is only a vision,But today, well lived,Makes every yesterday a dream of happinessAnd every tomorrow a vision of hope.Look well, therefore, to this day.Sanskrit proverbby Kalidasa,Indian poet and playwright,fourth century A.D.
I read it daily. So helpful in my recovery.
It went on to spawn the new genre of the modern meditation book, launched Hazelden into the publishing business, and became the best-selling recovery work after the BB, with sales now surpassing 10 million.The LBB was published anonymously, the only reference to its author being a note in the back to the effect that it was “Compiled by a member of the Group at Daytona Beach, Fla.” Richmond Walker was born of a well-to-do family in Brookline, a suburb of Boston.
I love this little book! It is one of the tools I have used to save my life.
In the year 2018, (for me!) this book's principals are outdated as are all other 12 step peer-led support groups. To the point, should you be a person who needs strict faith in something while denying your codependency, then you'll love this book and "fellowship" while trashing my review. I tried 12 step groups twice and found the disease model, the codependency, the dependence of a higher power for addiction to be not for me. I do however enjoy Smart Recovery, DBSA, MHA and NAMI support groups when the need to attend a group arrises for me.
I love this bookGreat daily reader. Seems to be appropriate for all. Really enjoyed it. Good start to my day. It's principles are time!ess.
Great book for daily devotionals.
I rated Twenty-Four Hours a Day 5 stars because of the help if offers me in my recovery; even on my busiest days, for a few moments each night, I can quietly read and meditate on the next day's entry (that I can sleep on and hear again, if I attend a morning meeting).
Being published in 1954, this book is naturally steeped in Christianity.
And for a book of simplistic writing, there are some little gems scattered throughout; my favorite (from 1 November): "The future will be made up of todays and todays, stretching out as short as now and as long as eternity."
Gee, I haven't looked at this in years. I used it daily for a while as a "wanna-be" drunk, because there was a program for drunks and maybe if I was a drunk I could be cured! OH well, there's no cure for being me, but I admire how the program can help many people and little things like this daily meditation book made a big difference in the road to recovery for many of the people I knew back then. Now if I could find a daily meditation that offers some relief from being me.....
While this is a nice tool to facilitate conversation and open up quiet people, I found the anecdotes repetitive. Some days the "manual" stays away from religious talk, other times its like the popes itinerary. If they worked in some more specific entries and more interesting examples I would've been more involved. This book is utter shit. Avoid like plauge.
Excellent! I must read for anyone in recovery . There are many different variations of this book to choose from , if you are struggling I suggest reading it . This is a book that you keep with you always and read daily !
This book is truly a lifesaver!
Never miss a day and never miss an answer. May take a few times reading the same page or skip a few, but my answer always comes.
This has been a primary morning reader for me for years and years. Part of the reason is the simple daily prayer and also because of the author's orientation to the Oxford Group.
The first and still the most prominent meditation book used by 12 step programs. Hardcore and timeless recover wisdom.
Started reading this book daily and continue to most everyday.
At my first AA meeting, a member gave me this book. I have been reading it daily. In June I will celebrate 7 years sobriety, thanks to AA.aa
This is a daily reader and never gets old. Even with years in the program I still take something away from it each day.
Great daily meditation for alcoholics-- & truth be told, for the rest of us, too!
