https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6364727-the-interrogation
If you think this is an expressive conjuring of the mental state of a disturbed young man, if you think this is a fair representation of tortured imagination, you should read Schreber's "Memoirs of My Mental Illness," or Artaud, or Genet, or Burroughs, or anyone!
It is childish, in the bad sense of that word.And the Nobel Prize: clearly, it is evidence that for some people, this kind of scattered, adventitious, random, opportunistic bricolage is an adequate representation of states of consciousness.
We are in a Riviera resort town looking through the eyes of one Adam Pollo, a squatter living in a vacation home.
He smokes, reads newspapers and magazines, works on his suntan, and occasionally gets together with his girlfriend Michelle, from whom he borrows money from time to time.After a while, the relationship goes bad, and Adam becomes more frenzied as the weather changes from summer to winter.
This is during an interrogation by a psychiatry professor and his young students, who bring out a showy response from him.The Interrogation is Le Clezio's first novel, which becomes ever more interesting as we see Adam developing into ...
Le Clezio settles that point during the narrative: Pollo seems detached from the norms of society, has occasional outbursts, some of them violent.
His mind focuses on extraneous minutiae.
There are interesting moments toward the end, when Le Clezio does some interesting things with form, recording a psychiatric evaluation and introducing mock ups of newspapers into the text.
But in the end, Pollo and his world seem not so much surreal as deliberately unreal.
Perhaps this is all a reflection of Pollo’s confused mind.
I don’t mind unreliable narrators, but unreliable writers leave me cold.
But as his struggles continue he becomes ever more sympathetic and engaging until at the end he is an eloquent spokesman for a view of reality.The turning point in my feelings about the protagonist is a section where he joins the crowd around the body of a drowned man that has recently been hauled from the sea.
This is the protagonist's struggle, to order and elaborate the relationship between diversity and unity in the broadest sense.
Initially intoxicating, the writing suffused with a visionary apprehension of the world, like a Van Gogh world everywhere seething and alive and teetering on madness, but then it kind of let me down toward the end as it wrapped itself too neatly up and strove for "significance". And maybe one or two too many lit tricks, but still a powerful book.
If you weren't having an existential crisis when you start, you will be when you finish.
Superbe. Un récit poignant d'un homme qui avait fait trop de confiance en ce monde, un monde qu'il voulait simple et flou. Par l'intermédiare d'Adam Pollo, Le Clézio fait le portrait d'une société qui n'a plus de patience ni de compréhension pour les idéalistes, les chercheurs de beauté et de sens. 4,6/5
sprachlich war es gut und anfangs war ich auch wirklich überzeugt davon aber dann ist die Handlung immer weniger und komischer geworden und das um das es laut klappentext geht wird auf einer Seite einmal erwähnt und das Ende war sowieso ganz komisch
Although I appreciate the fine line between mysticism and craziness with which author tries to get us to see through Adam Pollo's eyes, I thought the way it was done was droll so I give this book a 1.5 stars.The book is about what happens to a man who spends to much time with himself cut off from society.
It sounds to me, he describes being one with the universe through the vividness of his interactions with nature.Adam makes himself into an animal seeing the world through the eyes of a dog instead of empathizing with humans.

Flawless.
I wanted to eat every single word, literally.
And to chew paper on which it was printed.
I had a chance to compare English, Russian and Polish editions.
Incredible language in every case.
I feel a bit sorry I can't enjoy reading this book in original.
//Cопричастность, будто я читаю собственный дневник - не из-за сюжетной близости и иже, но вчитываясь в свой же язык.
Ну или просто кто-то здесь тронулся немного в очередной раз.
There’s a lot to admire about this novel. But LC’s protagonist gets increasingly annoying. He’s a complete loser or lunatic, or both, who wanders around, has a sort of girlfriend (and a sort of dogfriend), and that’s pretty much it. The pace is like a slow French film, but with little dialogue, and the dialogue is pseudo-meaningful in that 50s French way. Thus although singular, it also feels much the same thing. I stopped halfway through.
THis is a pretentious quasi experimental novel done better by other writers of his generation. Not without interest in first hundred pages but sags under the weight of it's smug, conflated narritive vocue and technique. I sincerely hope his books gets better as his career progresses considering he won the Nobel for Literature.
Pretentious and confusing, Le Clezio jumps from thought to thought occasionally adding philosophical jargon that leaves you disoriented. For a Nobel winner, I only hope it's because of a poor French to English translation.
Which, to a certain degree, makes sense, it's the sort of thing the French literary establishment likes, which is to say its form is quasi-experimental, even if its content is dully predictable, it takes an ironic attitude, but you're not sure what this ironic attitude is toward (and if you have to ask, you're clearly not worthy of it), and things happen with the same stochasticity that Godard employed in Pierrot le Fou.Urgh.
I quite liked Le Clezio's Desert.
But it's shit like this that makes me resent the '60s generation even more.
Good writing, but I'm not sure I have much of an idea of what went on in this novel.
Dit experimentele werk was een stuk filosofischer en beschouwelijker dan ik verwacht had. Le Clézio verraste me en eerlijk gezegd zat het erg dicht tegen een vijf sterren-rating aan.
Visionary MadnessJ. M. G. Le Clézio, who won the Nobel Prize for literature in 2008, sprang to international acclaim in 1963 with this visionary novel, published when he was only 23. Fragmented, enigmatic, and obsessive, it is utterly different from his more recent masterpieces such as  Onitsha  and Wandering Star. And yet how could one not be drawn to an author who opens with a self-deprecating preface in which he apologizes for the book in hand, and promises to do better next time, perhaps wit
There is a lightness and humor about the entire book, no matter how abstruse it may get in its philosophy, that kept me reading eagerly and with a smile.The principal character, Adam Pollo, is an educated man of about 30 whom we see squatting in an empty house above a French seaside town, making occasional forays for "fags, beer, chocolate, stuff to eat" and to take a look around.
But most of the time he thinks, with a visionary intensity that is extraordinary.A friend remarked that the isolated young man in the seaside town may be a reflection of the title character in Camus' 

The Interrogation was published 45 years before that and was his first work.This is the story of Adam Pollo, a deserter who figures he has conquered the task of living without money.
This he describes as the first stage of anti-existence.Professing to have rejected the concept of living with other people Adam thinks of ways to keep others from approaching him, like picking his teeth with a pocket knife.
That is until she comes up with an American boyfriend who beats the crap out of him.As you might expect things go south for Adam as this story goes on.
Starts with with some wonderfully tactile passages as the story opens in a young man's hideaway in a beach house on a hill, description so thick it feels like a Wes Anderson movie.
Adam Pollo is a young man seeking solitude who sees the world in strange and colourful ways.
Adam stalks Michele a while, gets into a fight with an American, preachers on the street and finally ends up in a mental hospital to conclude with some mindless intellectual debates with some medical students.
THe novel concludes with Adam's strangely geometrical contentedness.
It is very existentialist, heavily influenced by Sartre's La nausee, the nouvelle roman, and Salinger's Catcher in the Rye. The first two-thirds of the book has no real plot, and only one real character; the episodes (if one can even call them that) are totally random, and may or may not be connected with the character; the descriptions are very detailed and concrete, but entirely phenomenological, not to say bizarre.
The point seems to be that reality does not parcel out into narratives, or fit into categories.
The last third is different, with more connected narrative.
I'm not sure if anyone is going to be swayed by my saying this, but either way: Read This!
Seriously.
There's not much that I can actually say about the book because there isn't a great deal that occurs, but never has nothing happening been described so perfectly.
A 23 year old writing a publishable book in general is amazing.
A 23 year old publishing one About (nearly) Nothing that has more nuance and depth than 99.999% of what is out there while managing to impart amazing truths at a breakneck speed is simply astonishing.
Seriously: Read This!
I love it when an author inadvertently sums up his own book somewhere along the way:"You don't see that the man who wrote "the earth is blue like an orange" is a lunatic or a fool?
-- Of course not, you say to yourself there's a genius, he's dislocated reality in a couple of words." Whoever decided to give this guy a Nobel Prize for this book decided that he was a genius for the same reason.
I'm more inclined to the "lunatic or a fool" camp.
I'm afraid I like my books to have a story, and this one didn't.
I must say I find this book very french and very 60s.
Not a bad thing mind you.
Clearly copied by many others after.
Easy to see why it won such a prestigious prize, especially by one so young.
Clearly the protagonist is insane but the world is shown to be as well.
I believe if I had read this book when I was still in my 20s I would have given it 5 stars but the constant digressions and almost excruciating detail wore on me at times.
I've become accustomed to the mad world we live in you see.



Kitabın dikkat çekici iki temel unsuru, delilik ile dahilik arasındaki incecik çizgide yürümekte olan meczup (!) Adam'ın zihinsel kırılmaları ile Adam'ı da kuşatan toplumun deforme olmuş değer yargılarına yöneltilen eleştiriler idi bana göre. Yazar, iyi bir gözlemci olan baş karakterinin ağzından psikanalizden felsefeye kadar pek çok farklı noktaya temas ederken, topluma duyduğu öfkeyi de yer yer açıkça, yer yer öykünün içine serpiştirilmiş incecik göndermeler ile ortaya çıkarıyor. Eğer toplum kalıpları ve ön yargıları canınızı acıtmaya başladıysa, bu kitaba göz atmanızda fayda var diye düşünüyorum.
This is a look inside the head of a crazy man, who I suppose Clezio wants to show might not be so crazy after all. Is sanity a relative thing? Are our values? While his descriptions are really nice, working through the impressions they impart, I found they went on too long at certain parts. So much of the novel was getting inside the kid's head with little actual plot, that I found myself getting bored. In some respects, I found myself reminded of The Stranger, although that book is much tighter and more effective.
