https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47676.Do_You_Want_to_Be_My_Friend_
Among her picture book favorites is Do You Want to Be My Friend?
by Eric Carle.In this mostly picture book, a little mouse follows a series of tails from page to page hoping to find a friend.
What he mostly finds are disinterested animals.The illustrations are typical Eric Carle painted paper collages.
The animals are colorful and Harriet has fun pointing out all the different types shown in the book.For a parent reading the book, it's thankfully short.
It's perfect for nights when I'm too tired to handle a book with lots of words but Harriet wants to share a book together.
An early Carle nearly wordless picture book. It's Carle's typical illustrations, but, with a bit too much green. Obviously a product of the 70's, but, still an alright book for those who enjoy Carle's illustration and wordless picture books.
Launched by the words of the title, the book's pictures--done in Carle's trademark collage--show a small mouse encountering increasingly larger creatures as he searches for a companion.
One of the very clever devices at work is that Carle starts the tail of each successive animal on the previous page--thus creating a sense of suspense/surprise and giving children an opportunity to guess who the mouse will meet next.
I think it makes for an excellent book for children transitioning from being read to and learning to read themselves.
Eric Carle delivers a fabulous picture book based upon animals of the wild. The story follows a mouse, which travels around asking different animals, ‘do you want to be my friend?’ This beautifully illustrated book, captures the imaginations of children, and allows them to become fully involved with the story, as the story can be as interactive as you choose to make it. I would recommend this story for young children as there are no words and no pictures which can enable children to use their own imagination of what animal is going to be next.
Very cute (N) nursery age book. It's about a mouse who is looking for a friend. This book is a series of colorful illustrations. It is also an interactive book that helps involve children. Each page has the tail of a new animal the mouse decides to ask to be its friend. There are no words, all pictures. My daughter liked this book. Plenty of giggles as she used her imagination as to what the next animal on the page would be. Highly reccomend this for little readers.
I think this book sends mixed messages. On one hand you have the idea that everyone you meet is not going to be a friend but if you keep putting yourself out there a friend will come along. But I am concerned about the 'stranger danger'. Perhaps the mouse should have learned to stay away from carnivores. I'm also concerned about the mice hiding from the snake at the end.
I like the images for this book; however, there wasn't much to go off of. I think that this was definitely meant for younger kids to guess the animal on the next page based on the tails they see. It probably would be a great read a loud.
Do You Want to Be My Friend by Eric Carle is a classic book that was published in 1976.
There is one sentence used at the beginning of the book, "Do you want to be my friend?" This children's book is all about an unnamed mouse who is looking for a companion.
The mouse wants to have a friend and not feel so alone.
This children's book can be used for anyone, but I especially like the idea of using the pictures to teach children new animals.
We will always face these conflicts, but we need to remember who we are.I also like how we see the mouse on every page with lots of big animals.
Do You Want to Be My Friend is a wordless picturebook that tells the story of a mouse who encounters a variety of different animals while he is in search of a friend.
The story follows the mouse from page to page where he doesn’t lose hope in finding the right friend.According to our class notes on art, Carle’s art is considered abstract.
This is because right before the snake is exposed, (SPOILER ALERT ahead) the mouse finds another mouse to be friends with.
This is a great book for children to practice reading on their own. Even though there are almost no words, the child will still be able follow the story of a mouse looking for a friend, and will feel a sense of accomplishment for it. The clever illustrations allow children to guess at what the next page will bring, and there is a surprise when that long green path the mouse has been following turns out to be something else entirely.
My Review: This is a pretty simple book compared to some of the other Eric Carle books in our collection, it may have been better for really young kids (maybe 2-3). We do love the classic Eric Carle illustration style and all the animals in the story. Each page has a little tail for the kids to guess which animal the mouse will encounter next, so it adds a fun interactive element to keep attention on the story.
My children love these little books. They thoroughly enjoy each and every story, as if they are all unique and individual without any cause for similarity among them. Even though sometimes, they might seem tedious and repetitive to me as a parent, I do enjoy being able to read short-stories to my children that are clean and respective.
A largely wordless picture book gives readers the chance to guess all of a mouse's potential friends - from just seeing a bit of their backside or tail. It's a lesser known Carle book, but I'm glad I discovered this little board book in the racks at the library. My preschooler and I had fun reading it together.
A mouse is searching for a friend among many different animals while a suspicious green line runs along the bottom of the pages. Kids will guess whether or not the mouse can be friends with the different animals. In the end the mouse finds a mouse friend just in time to get into a safe place when we discover that the green line is a snake.
This book which starts off from one simple question starts a little mouse's journey through this almost wordless picture book, seeking the perfect companion.The repetitive pattern of this book has a lovely simplicity. It is fun guessing the animals and comparing sizes and shapes, and the illustrations’.
This was a lovely picture book with very minimal words. Would be a good one to choose for a child that is just starting out with reading as there are lots of pictures that spark discussion. You could also use this in a class to help children write their own story to match the pictures.
A short little picture book about a mouse approaching many different animals. He asks them all if they want to be his friend. With little words, Carle moves the story along. Using the illustrations to travel across the pages, Carle shows the little mouse finding a friend his own size.
What I like about this is that the pictures of each animal has the end of its tail on the previous page. This allows children to guess what animal is coming next. The end is happy because the mouse finally finds another mouse who is a friend and they barely miss the snake.
Nice book for younger, until 4 years old children. I was asked to read it four times in a row due to my son liking the book.
The illustrations are my favorite. Simple but colorful and creative. The story is super sweet!
Probably my least favorite Eric Carle book. There was maybe ten words in the book, and while the illustrations were nice, but that didn't offset the fact the majority of the book is without text.
I read these to Alissa on the back porch as she played.
This book honestly caught me off guard as it has barely any words.
However, my class loved the book.
As the children excitedly blurbed the name of the first animal they think Mr Mouse (as they affectionately called him) saw, I began to see the magic hidden within this book.
As the story progresses, I was heartened to see that children across all reading abilities were participating and discussing about the book, and the minimal allows children the freedom to take the storyline to where ever they want it to.
The two new friends made it inside the tree just in time before a snake got them.Professional Recommendation/Review #1: Marilyn Courtot (Children's Literature) This is an oversized board book with very sturdy pages.
However, neither reviewer question why Carle wrote a story where only the mouse wanted to be the mouse’s friend, while the other animals did not.Evaluation of Literary Elements: The style of this book is in a respective predicable fashion.
The children guess what animal is next, while the mouse asks the constant question, “Do you want to be my friend?” The collage-like illustrations stand out to the reader because they are so appealing and unique.
Author/Illustrator: Eric Carle Genre: Wordless picture book, Juvenile fiction Theme(s): Friendship, animals Opening line/sentence (type directly from text): Do you want to be my friend?
Brief Book Summary (2-3 sentences in your own words): The (almost) wordless picture book is about a mouse searching everywhere for a friend.
1971)) Response to Two Professional Reviews (3-4 sentences in your own words): The first review talks about how the mouse in the story is searching for a friend, whereas the second review talks more about how mice are characters in quite a few different picture books, not just this one.
From horse to crocodile to giraffe, no one wants to be the little mouse's friend, until he meets up with a friendly, familiar face--and not a moment too soon! Full color.
By its little round ears and its pointy nose and it's long tail?" Then I asked, "What does a mouse say?" SQUEEK!Turning to the first page of the story I ran my finger along the green shape and then tapped the mouse.
The children have such fun guessing who will appear on the next page, making animal sounds, and following the green shape through the book.
I tell them this caterpillar has a whole book just about it.Of course the green shape turns out to be a SNAKE so when the story is finished I have all the children stand up with me for a WIGGLE BREAK."I'm being eaten by a boa constrictor and I don't like it one bit.Oh no!
While searching for a friend, he runs into another mouse near a snake and he finally finds another friend just like him.Professional Recommendation/Review: Marilyn Courtot (Children’s Literature)“This is an oversized board book with very sturdy pages.
Little mouse asks several creatures if they want to be his friend, and when he finally meets another mouse, he finds a friend.”Professional Recommendation/Review #2: Publishers Weekly“Yet another mouse searches the animal kingdom for companionship and finds an unexpected respondent in Eric Carle’s Do You Want to Be My Friend?”Response to Two Professional Reviews: Both of these reviews rated the book very highly and I tend to agree.
This was a wordless picture book. The entire story was a mouse trying to get other animals to become friends with him. This would be good for lower grades or higher grades if you want them to have to make up their own story to go along with the pictures. Overall, neat book.
Eric Carle provides readers with a wordless picture book that is most special for the interactiveness it provides it’s readers. “Do You Want to be My Friend?” tells the story of a little mouse and his journey to find a friend among a host of different animals. The only words used in the entire story are found on the first page, as the mouse speaks to a bushy tail, questioning: “do you want to be my friend?”. From here on out, the little mouse encounters many tails — and many animals — on a ques
“Do You Want to be My Friend?” tells the story of a little mouse and his journey to find a friend among a host of different animals.
From here on out, the little mouse encounters many tails — and many animals — on a quest to find a friend.
The illustrations used in this novel are Eric Carle’s classic — collage-style cut-outs, simplistic in their shape but extremely colorful and detailed in the texture of the animals.
The book has an extremely simplistic plot throughout — person versus person, as well as person versus self, as the mouse struggles to find an animal willing to be his friend.
