https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/355618.The_Box_Of_Delights
Our young hero Kay would wake up to find himself helping people with flint spears defend themselves against wild animals, being kidnapped from the last hours of Troy by 18th century pirates, or traveling through a magic wood with the Wild Hunt, all using excessively poetic language, thus leading me to have to stop and explain parts of Roman fortifications, geographic formations, and pre-steel weaponry.
Young Maria Jones, Kay's friend who is about ten years old, is armed with actual pistols that she took from the villains in the previous book.
Written in beautiful and poetic language it evokes a magic rarely found.
I feel the first seven chapters are excellent, after this there are some bits that feel a slog and there are some discussions between Abner and his staff that go on to the extent that now we have read it so many times I leave some bits out.
The scene were Cole escapes through a painting and the description of the amazing christmas party are wonderful and could be read independently from the story.
Lovely to escape to a more magical time, the perfect Christmas read.
The Christmas theme, a boy meeting strange people with bright eyes who wear unusual rings, and the scenes with Herne the Hunter are all heavily inspired by the earlier novel.If the novels by White, Lewis, and Cooper had come out today, there would probably be a media furor and lawsuits once people realized the similarities with The Box of Delights.
So the book is also a lovely reminder of a more innocent time, when writers were free to be inspired, and free to purloin scenes and characters and turn them to their own uses, in trying to recreate a bit of magic.
Must do a reread of this before christmas.
I would also dare to say that it has some elements that may have influenced the Harry Potter stories as well such as the young hero, railway stations, snow-filled villages, hot drinks, and magic.Alas, when it was first read to me as a child in an Aussie school, I just didn't get it.
But then, I didn't like listening to the C.S. Lewis stories either, so maybe I was one of those Wolves.
This edition thankfully explains some of those issues by explaining that Masefield's original manuscript had never been corrected until now, which explains my original childhood bias.
(view spoiler)[ The fact that Peter got 'scrobbled' (one of my favourite bits of this book actually was the delightful use of the word 'scrobbled'!), and the last that is heard of him is when Abner is talking to him through his cell!
If it weren't for the leaving Peter to drown thing and the horrible dream cliche', I might have given this four stars.
The dream cliche' makes me feel like I've wasted my time somehow, ESPECIALLY because 'The Midnight Folk' was JUST as magical and hard-to-believe (if you don't use imagination), yet it was all proclaimed true.
The Box of Delights (1935) by John Masefield is a miracle and a masterpiece of magical literature.
I admit to getting lost in the narrative.
I was completely absorbed in Kay Harker’s adventures.
The actual box of delights allows the holder to travel quick or small or both – the depiction of magical and enchanted journeys held me enthralled.
We encounter Herne the Hunter, the Lady of the Oak Tree, lions, unicorns and talking animals.
There are kidnappings, chases, robberies and great escapes.
I set the book aside reluctantly and came back to it with great anticipation.
It starts well with some very atmospheric scenes – the men on the train and Cole Hawkins magic show are particularly good, as are the trips to the fort – but as it goes on it has become very repetitive and convoluted.
The magic seems barely thought out and apart from a few good moments at the start is pretty mundane.
The writing of the action ending is really bad and you barely get any sense of real geography or concrete quality to it.
I see that Frank Cotrell Boyce is currently writing a film adaptation, I have fond memories of the TV version and I imagine either would be preferable to this very dated book.
To grasp the story at all, it is necessary to have a rather deep knowledge of English history and folklore, which most children nowadays do not possess, and so would feel utterly confused.
They could, I suppose, hold the book in one hand and Google furiously with the other, but that is tedious.I might finish it next Christmastime but in the high heat of Australian summer, I am feeling especially disconnected from the deep snows of the English countryside in its 1930s' holiday splendour and I don't really care what happens to Kay and his lot.
3.5; the shifts in tone are somewhat jarring (the book starts off as a light fantasy precursor to th
It happens a lot doesn't it - that second read which brings far more to the table than that first encounter; in consequence it is upped from 3* to 4*. Very Taliesin, mythologically speaking, wouldn't you say?
Tool to excavate enchantment. Childhood favourite. Initiated terror of Herne the Hunter. *remembers cowering through forest**shakes fist at 21st century*
Currently reading this with my son. I forgot just how good this book is! An all-time classic which takes me back to childhood.
At the train station on his way home from school for the Christmas holiday, Kay Harker, the main character of The Box of Delights, encounters a mysterious Punch and Judy man named Cole Hawlings.
There were times in The Box of Delights when I had to re-read passages to be sure I had even a vague sense of what was going on, and in general, it just felt very slow to me, even though lots of things were happening.The Box of Delights is a sequel to a book I have not read, The Midnight Folk (1927), in which Kay Harker is apparently also the main character.
Read with Loulou, November 2017—January 2018 c:
Whew! This is an action-packed story that kids who like adventure will enjoy. Danger, magic, talking animals, battles against evil, time travel, ... it's all here. Melodramatic. Quite a bit of history. And amazingly, the kids take everything in stride, even nonchalantly.All the British words and phrases (and even some made-up ones?) give the text a decided 'flavor.' ('Scrobbled' is used at least 100 times. And it doesn't refer to anything that has to do with the internet.)What frustrated me while reading, made sense by the end.
I vaguely remember this being on tv at Christmas far back in my youth so thought it would be a nice festive read...frankly though I was confused...
I couldn't figure how old the characters were,why nobody seemed concerned when people went missing for days on end and why they weren't astonished by magic.admittedly this is a sequel...maybe all those points are addressed in first book....
a little catch up might have been nice.the idea of the magic box that goes swift and goes small and the menace of the pretend clerics could have been a better story...maybe it just hasn't stood the test of time.
I read this book most years at Christmas, it's something of a ritual. If I get the chance I watch the BBC adaptation as well. There is something so thrilling about the warning issued to Kay, the young hero: The wolves are running. Yet Kay is wonderfully matter-of-fact about his adventure, taking encounters with mysterious missionaries, scrobbled clergy, murderous pirates and Herne the Hunter in his stride. He's aided by visiting friends, including the intrepid Maria, but they do have a way of getting scrobbled themselves. It is a magical book, pure joy.
3.5 stars. For the most part I really enjoyed it.
All that magic was exactly what I wanted from this book!(Spoilers are hidden.)Plot hole #1: It's mentioned many many times that several Rats really hate Kay. They say over and over that Kay "should have his head chopped off, because he is going to get a Dog for Christmas." And I kept waiting for that famous Dog to make an appearance.
(hide spoiler)] This question is never answered satisfactorily.Plot hole #3:Why does the evil Abner want to kidnap a lot of people in order to stop the Christmas church services?
It’s still a lovely book, magical and funny, to be read by anybody of any age.” —The Horn Book"This classic of English children's literature, sadly overlooked by most on this side of the Atlantic, has just been reissued in a beautiful edition by the New York Review Children's Collection...Although The Box of Delights was first published in 1935, Masefield's intoxicating prose has lost none of its pull...in this wonderful tale of bravery and intrigue that deserves to become another staple of the holidays." --The San Francisco Chronicle"This uniquely imaginative tale would be a delight for fans of old-fashioned, English Literature and could be compared to the likes of A Christmas Carol and the Lion the Witch and the Wardrobe." --CLEAR Reviews“Masefield's novel, a plum pudding of strange adventures, English legend, and spiritual feeling, should be more widely appreciated” –The Washington Post“This book is a writer’s oft-raided treasure trove…the world’s best ‘crossover book’…It does time-travel better than Narnia…The story floats on brilliant, eccentric dialogue and…never loses its snowy-Christmas, Nutcracker enchantment…” –The Independent (UK)Normally I don't look at reviews when I'm reviewing a book.
I should think he has been something very different once..." The announcement that "The Wolves Are Running" leads to all sorts of high jinks, written in a lovely old-fashioned English storyteller's voice.The box in question comes into Kay's hands pretty quickly and he uses its special powers throughout the story to avoid those trying to take the box away, and to help rescue villagers and friends who are kidnapped.
Who scrobbled you?"There are many magical moments in this book - my favorite occurs in the dark study following a Punch and Judy show when a band of soldiers marches out of the wainscoting to put on a wonderful display, then smartly marches back.
3.5*I'd wanted to read this for a number of years - and finally got my hands on a copy, at just the right time, it seems - this is a perfect December read, lots of snow and carolers and such within!(I do wish I had read Midnight Folk first.)This was a funny read, funny as in there is more kinds of magic in this book than any other I've read - Masefield seems to have done a sort of tossed salad of time travel, talking animals, a box that gives special powers to it's bearer(powers that are unplumbed, it might do a lot more than what is mentioned) - which makes for a colorful jumble of a book.
- fantasy Not the easiest book to get through.
It's over 300 pages and the chapters (only 12) are very long.
Were this published today, I think separating the action into shorter chapters would have been done.
Some bits are a little too convenient - deus ex machina.This is a curious mixture of reality and fantasy: we have gangsters, magic, time travel.
At times it was difficult to know just what was imagery and what was fantasy.
It was interesting that, unlike in a lot of books, here we get children operating both on their own and with adults.
One of which won a BAFTA in 1984?
In short, this is an unedited mess of fever dreams seemingly concocted on the fly to satisfy the varied demands of a band of unruly children for an endless bedtime story that involves equally large quantities of snow and kidnapping, various space and time travel magics that change as needed to fit the needs of the "plot", a remarkably unlucky set of Church of England clergy, genuinely nightmarish perils handled by uncommunicative children with preternatural calm, and zero parental oversight.
Even so, if you read this, you'll recognize the origins (perhaps?) of half a dozen other tropes of children's fantasy literature.
I enjoyed the film when it first came out and watched some of it regularly at Christmases afterwards just for the Christmassey mood it generated.
It was overlong with episodes that bore no relation to the story just added in (I thought so the BBC could show off their burgeoning special effects department) and the next generation never took to it.
I thought it was about time I read the classic book but it was exactly the same.
It is a sort of dreamy, fantasy stream of consciousness (or perhaps unconsciousness) with many imaginative ideas but no coherence.It is a book of its time 1935 and doesn't really work for modern readers.
I believe I actually read this when I was a kid, but can't be completely sure. I did love the TV adaptation that played around Christmas in England (where I spent 10 years of my childhood). I've always felt nostalgic about the series until I found episodes on YouTube and realized that 1980s attempts at special effects for TV were not so great. Still, I remember it fondly and I'm thinking the book might be a more lasting version.
The box is coveted by Abner Brown and his sinister network of spies and thieves disguised as an ecclesiastical college and the events of the book follow their attempts to claim it using violence and coercion.Whether Masefield intended to be openly critical of the church and the law in this story is unclear, but the policemen are consistently exposed as utterly inept and useless, whilst the villains working undercover as a religious organisation throws a considerable amount of shade on the workings and integrity of religious groups.Masefield has a masterful command of language and scenery, and whilst this was written in the 1930's and there are instances where colloquial language has changed somewhat, it is still remarkably modern in its approach.Adults are lacking in this story; in fact, Kay lives with a guardian (his lack of parents is never explained) and the children seem to have complete autonomy to revel in the surrounding countryside at will.

I was into everything Enid Blyton, poetry, and was slightly in love with the concept of "England is a great open and adventurous place for young boys and girls" (I live in a very un-England-like place).
From the concept of fortuitious encounters, to the hope of having adventures over Christmas - to the simple children's games like Robber's Tea and etc.
I loved it so much I made my own Box and pretended it worked.I would one day want to introduce this book to my children, if I were ever fortunate to have any, though my fear is that in this day of ipads and digital games, the settings might be dated.
Whilst reading Box of Delights it's hard to not draw comparisons to C.S Lewis's, Chronicles of Narnia and Rowling's, Harry Potter series.
For children who enjoy theses books, may cope well with Box of Delights.
A creative and magical story, full of twists and turns, which captures the imagination.I would be cautious to who I would recommend this book, it could potentially put children off reading.
It took me over a month to read this book, as I just couldn't get into it.
I found the exaggerated English an unnecessary hurdle which effected my fluency.
For me, the book became interesting at page 300!
Originally published in 1935, The Box Of The Delights, owes much of its more recent popularity to the BBC’s television adaptation of the book in 1984, which immortalised the words: “the wolves are running”, for myself and a generation of eighties children.
However, I can categorically state that reading The Midnight Folk first does not make The Box Of Delights any more coherent.
It is a book intended for children, so while I cannot recommend it to adult readers, I am mindful of the fact that I did love the book when I was a child.
The last two sentences of The Box of Delights by John Masefield.‘Have you had a nice dream?’‘Yes,’ he said, ‘I have.’Why?
I, as the reader, have accompanied the writer through the story, accepting it and embracing it, and then, at the end, the writer turns around and spits in your eye: Ha!
In 1984 this was a BBC TV production just before Christmas, and my sons and I watched it together with real pleasure.I also listened to it serialised on the wireless when I was a child in the 50s.
He is catapulted into a fantastical adventure with talking animals, the villainous Abner Brown and Sylvia Daisy, time travel and a cathedral waiting to perform a Christmas service to commemorate 1000 years of Christendom.
It is a children's book, of course, but there are times when a children's book makes absolute required reading - especially at Christmas - and this is one of the best!
The imaginative follow-up, and last installment, of Kay's adventures. I guess he grew up. Written n the mid 1930's this jerky, but quite imaginative, tale is entertaining and a little prescient (it includes a car that turns into an airplane and acts like a Harrier jet.) It has everything: wizards, fairies, talking mice and magic books. The bad guy gets married between books and impersonates a man of the cloth in change of an abbey. Kooky.
A wonderful children's story.
I wish I'd read this when I was younger and had watched some of the bbc adaptation (which scared me a lot) but in a way I'm glad I waited as the BBC also released a very shortened version at the time of the series and it would have been sad to have missed out on anything.
I would also not be at all surprised to find that Neil Gaiman had read it at an early age and it had a big influence on him as it reminded me a lot of his work.
One of the best children books, I have read.Full of mystery and poetry ,great villains and magic.I am not sure, if anyone read The Midnight Folk,which is sort of a prequel to this. now, that reads like a poetic dream/nightmare...
Enjoyed this a lot when I read it as a kid - not so much now. Disappointed.
The weather is harsh with heavy snow and he is told to be careful as the Wolves are Running.There is to be a big celebration at the church, come Christmas Eve, but a few days before the children want to put on a little celebration at Seekings and invite the Punch and Judy man to perform.
Kay is told to protect the box and not let it fall into the hands of a particular person who is chasing Cole Hawlings.The adults all seem to be called away and the children are left on their own to enjoy this action-adventure.
This certainly has the same absurd, surreal, magical dream-logic of The Midnight Folk, an acceptance of the strange and the impossible and the hugely unlikely at face value with little in the way of astonishment or disbelief.
A deeply old-fashioned, arguably antiquated, children's story that takes its logic from deeper stories still until at the final line when even the author seems to give up trying to make sense of it.
This is a book I've read to my children (not yet to my granddaughters) and enjoy as a yearly treat around the Christmas/Hanukah time.
The protagonist is a young boy named Kay Harker who is returning home to Seekings House for the Christmas holidays.
Cole warns Kay that the wolves are running and asks him to warm several people.
He also makes him caretaker of his magical Box of Delights.This results in a good against evil plot with Kay and his friends Peter, Susan and the irrepressible Jemimah battling against the machinations of the evil Abner Brown and his cohorts.
The plot, such as it is, concerns young Kay Harker, who runs into some criminals on his way home for Christmas break (note that his family is dead or living somewhere else, but what happened to them is never mentioned) who are searching for the titular Box of Delights, then in the possession of a Punch and Judy man, Cole Hawlings.
Instead of showing us what characters other than Kay experience, the author has them summarize what happened to them.
It's just that Masefield is not very interested in the story that he tells around these descriptions.
Kay learns more of Abner’s powers, the Imps and Demons at his command that have brought a great snowstorm to the town essentially cutting it off, and also of how Abner’s own men are plotting against him!Kay does indeed manage to free Cole and together they free all of the others and foil Abner’s plans, ending with a jolly old sing-song at the church on Christmas Eve!For many, this book is a childhood favourite.
Both books only just manage to hold on to any sense of reality and often descend into surreal insanity (in one scene, our protagonists are attacked by tiny airplanes with teeth!) There is such a strong sense of magic throughout and certainly one of the few stories to really evoke a sense of the traditional Celtic magic it draws upon.
If you forgive the plot holes and allow the dream-logic to carry you along, then both books are a real retro treat.
It has some resonance with Narnia and the more recent Harry Potter books, but really is unlike anything else...
I enjoyed this book very much, but found it a bit confusing at times. Had I known, I would have read The Midnight Folk first, because many of the characters of The Box of Delights and their situations are explained in it. This book contains quite a few of the good parts of later children's fantasy books - books by C.S. Lewis, J.K. Rowling, and others. It was a good read and I'm glad I happened upon it.
I have been a huge fan of The Dark is Rising for years but have never read The Box of Delights, then a newspaper article paired them together so I thought it was time to give it a go.
I found the passages inside the Box quite tedious and the ending a great let down though I liked the illustrations and the descriptions of the ancient camp and the snow in Tatchester.
The language was rich at times and the verb 'to scrobble' should surely come into mainstream use, but overall I wouldn't be putting this near the top of my recommended reads for children, whereas Susan Cooper's book stays right up near the top.
