https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24482.A_Sorrow_Beyond_Dreams
It is the story of Handke's mother's suicide, and his rapid attempts to capture it and her life through writing.
Handke is a strange, wonderful writer and I raced through the early part of this with pleasure, as he constructed a profile of his mother's life in Germany before her stagnancy set in.
(I was particularly interested in how backgrounded WW2 was - Hitler, just a voice on the radio.)The writing about her death was beautiful as well, and strongly reminiscent of that magic scene in THE ARGONAUTS with Harry and his mother.
Handke's relief, and the odd love that explodes out of him when alone with his mother's body, was touching and gratifying.
Briefly: In Jeffrey Eugenides introduction, readers are told, “In fact, German has two words for self-slaughter:  Selbstmord, which is roughly equivalent to the English “suicide” and Freitod, which means literally “free death,” and possesses a certain brave, even heroic, connotation.” This puts me in mind of the character of Jessie in Marsha Norman’s unforgettable play, 'night, Mother, a play everyone should see, or read, or watch the Cissy Spacek/Anne Bancroft film.
Then she had to close her eyes, and silent tears ran uselessly down her averted face.While Handke’s account is factual, it reads like a novella, making concluding remarks ominous with a sense of foreboding (foreshadowing).4.5 stars, rounded up, for its accomplishment and reminding me about Norman’s powerful play.
There are only few places where Handke addresses the woman as “My mother”, especially at the beginning : “My mother has been dead for almost seven weeks: I had better go to work before the need to write about her, which I felt so strongly at her funeral, dies away and I fall back into the dull speechlessness with which I reacted to the nerves of her suicide."Handke adopts for his composition a deliberate formulation based on facts and the way he gets into the different stages in her life may seem like reading a resume of one’s life.
She listened to reason, but understood nothing." As she raises a child and is married to a man that she doesn't love, being beaten habitually and for being the unfortunate gender of a woman, she felt nothing anymore.
Handke wrote this right after his mother's suicide and I can feel his love and angst and power within the pages as he struggles to know what to write, but eventually puts down raw emotion on paper, showing us who his mother was and why she did what she did, what was inevitable, what was needed."When I write, I necessarily write about the past, about something which, at least while I am writing, is behind me.
“My sense of horror makes me feel better: at last my boredom is gone; an unresisting body, no more exhausting distances, a painless passage of time,” Peter Handke writes in this distilling memoir about his mother.
The reader is left to gather the details of his mother's life and shape it into story (view spoiler)[.
But this is another thing Handke manages, for as he peels apart the layers of his mother’s life, he brings the reader closer to seeing the mother in his or her life.
همین که کلمه فقر به میان می آید، همیشه به این فکر می کنم که یکی بود، یکی نبود!
و تا حد زیادی هم آدم آن را از دهان کسانی می شوند که در گذشته به آن دچار بوده اند، کلمه ای متصل به کودکی.
توضیح واضحاتی شترپلنگ به قصد رنگ و لعاب زدن به خاطرات.
ولی اینجانب از گل و بوته زدن به خاطره هایم معذورمچند هفته ای از خودکشی مادر می گذرد و حالا پسر قصد نوشتن چیزی شبیه زندگینامه (نه دقیقا) برای مادر را دارد: مبارزه نافرجام زنی فرسوده که روزگا
داستان روایت ماوقع نیست، بلکه بیشتر بیان احساسات و حالات مادر طی حوادث، روزمرگی ها و بدبختی هاست، تیره روزی‌هایی که در تمام جوامع، مختص زنان است و مثلا با این عبارات مشترک بیان می شود: فقط منتظرم بچه ها از آب و گل در بیان.
راوی به گفته خودش تلاش بسیاری کرده که داستان پردازی را تا حد ممکن کنار بگذارد و و الحق که در این امر بسیار موفق بوده و حتی گاهی کارش به فلسفه بافی می کشد عادت به تفکر بر حسب فایده و ضرر، این پلیدترین طرز نگاه به حیات، ارزش صوری اش را تباه می کند.
The relationship of Life to Death is that of Music to Silence; how can we write about the difference between the silence before a note, and the silence that follows?The Death of the Mother.
To speak of it is to Quote.
To Quote is to dissemble.
To dissemble is to betray.
In this short novella, only 70 or so pages in length, Handke attempts to write about his mother in the weeks after her suicide.
Tries and fails.
And yet his failing is a masterpiece.
It is a work of a writer attempting to control/delineate/contain the ending of this life, and not succeeding.
standalone edition -- for what felt like the first time really -- because Knausgaard recently mentioned it as a major influence.
This straightforward yet essentially scene-less "life story" about Handke's mother's suicide gave Knausgaard a blueprint for how to write about his father's slow suicide by alcohol.
("My painful memory of her daily motions, especially in the kitchen.") Otherwise, I love Handke's prose and unpredictable movement.
Loved the dissolution at the end into a string of memories, observations, quotations, statements as in The Weight of the World (an all-time favorite).
She was; she became; she became nothing.A teenage boy gives his mother the books he's been reading - novels by Hamsun, Dostoevsky, Faulkner - and she absorbs them with enthusiasm. For the first time in her life she learns to express herself in words. However,Literature didn't teach her to start thinking of herself but showed her it was too late for that.A gain in freedom, or even happiness, may ultimately leave you standing face to face with that thing you were successfully able to avoid for years.This is one of the saddest books I've ever read.
Peter Handke has written an elegy for his mother, a suicide, unlike anything I've read before.
It is also the story of many women born in Austria between the World Wars, when life was not only difficult, it was hard, even more so for women than men.
Then came Hitler, the war, fierce changes, the defeat of the Axis powers; poverty and hardship in Europe dictate Handke's mother's life in Berlin and return to Austria in the post-war years.
This book was originally written in 1972 after his mother's suicide in 1971.
عمل أدبي إنساني مختلف، هادئ، رغم مأساوية حادثة انتحار والدة الكاتب التي عشنا معها في العمل مختلف تقلبات حياتها منذ ولادتها إلى رحيلها عن الحياة.العمل في بعض أجزائه مكتوب بلغة بسيطة، وفي أجزاء أخرى بلغة عميقة.الترجمة جميلة جداً.. وهذا العمل هو الثاني الذي أقرأه للمؤلف، وسأعمل على قراءة بقية أعماله المترجمة للعربية.بشكل عام، هذا الكتاب يستحق القراءة
I don't believe that all books can be rated on a "star" system, nor do I believe that all should...I still believe what I've written above, but a book that is haunting me and continues to daunt me deserves 5 stars.I don't believe that all books can be reviewed in words, nor do I believe that all should...When you read a book and the words simultaneously seep into your "everything" inside and it confronts and confounds you on every page, that is all I believe needs to be said.I think we could choose ten different people and have them read "A Sorrow Beyond Dreams" at the same time and no one's feelings or thoughts about what they have read would be the same.This book drained me and had my brain going a mile a minute at the same time.
Terror delivered in ruthless brackets, with scarcity of expression, like bombs falling when one is least prepared for them.Emotion is conspicuous by its absence, and only a succession of almost aseptic facts, reminiscent of Elfriede Jelinek or Ágota Kristóf’s detached brutality, pile up in impersonal recollection of a life stripped of its zest, a life that was stillborn, muted by sociopolitical context, which, at the same time, is neither excuse nor exoneration.If read in one sitting, as I recommend you do, you will notice that Handke’s deliberate composition suffers a severe, shocking transformation when it’s about to culminate.
NYRB not only has an amazing selection of books, but their cover design is invariably gorgeous, and in a few cases even seems reason enough to buy some of their titles.
I loved the cover of Stoner and The Pilgrim Hawk: A Love Story and Novels in Three Lines, but the stark beauty of "A Sorrow Beyond Dreams" so far tops them all.
The book is a memoir of another sad little round of life, and the cover, a photograph by James Casebere called "A Barrel Vaulted Room," is a good match for it.
In an attempt to make sense of this ending (or a beginning), and to come to terms with the act itself, the author paints an astonishing words-and-ideas portrait of her life from youth through to death.
She administers her own abortions, with a knitting needle (the casual statement, reduced to mere fact, being one of the more stunning moments in the book), delivers and raises those pregnancies that can't be terminated, and settles into a poverty so immense, and so truthfully depicted that it brings a deeper understanding to the word.
Peter Handke’s A Sorrow Beyond Dreams, which I read in a single sitting, is a searing example of prose literature doing what no other art form can do – engaging the conflict between thought and emotion, building a narrative out of the intersection between ideas and lived experience – that I’ve come across in years.
It’s a hybrid form – not quite memoir, but not exactly fiction either – about the life and suicide of his mother, written in the months immediately following her death.
Handke struggles with whether or not it’s possible to fully comprehend and articulate her experience, given the depth of feelings this event triggered in him.
It’s not.
It’s shattering, one of those books that invade your consciousness and forever alter your reality.
By comparison "The Red Parts," which has its own awareness of pain, is as clinical as "In Cold Blood."The first half of this book is about Handke's mother's family, beginning with her grandfather.
36), and there are only a few pages in which the son seems to be close to her.About halfway through the book, a reader may begin to wonder when the sociological, religious, and economic observations will give way to the story of the mother's suicide.
It sounds at first as if Handke's mother died by suicide because she could not bear the symptoms of a neurological condition, but if that were to be true, why spend half the book desribing an ordinary unhappy life in a rural Catholic town?
Peter Handke's mother, aged 51, committed suicide by overdosing on sleeping pills.
Instead, he relates his worry about possible "abstractions and formulations" he is making while writing about her, the danger of them "becoming independent" which he fears would make his readers forget about her, "painlessly submerging her in poetic sentences."It felt like he wanted to exhume his mother and put her on public display.
İntiharının ardından annesine dair anılarını derlemiş Handke. İnsanı boğan ve mutsuz eden bir kitap o yüzden, ne yazık ki. İnsanlığın en büyük sorunu ilgisizlik olabilir mi acaba gerçekten diye düşünmeden edemedim okurken. Çok güçlü cümlelerle örülü bir kitap. Arkadaşlık, büyük oranda hesaba ve çıkara indirgenmiş bu yaşam biçiminde birbirini yakından tanımak, ama birbirine yakınlaşıp içini açmamak demekti. Herkesin aynı kaygıları taşıdığı açıktı; kimi kaygıyı hafife, kimi ağıra alarak ötekinden
İntiharının ardından annesine dair anılarını derlemiş Handke. İnsanı boğan ve mutsuz eden bir kitap o yüzden, ne yazık ki. İnsanlığın en büyük sorunu ilgisizlik olabilir mi acaba gerçekten diye düşünmeden edemedim okurken. Çok güçlü cümlelerle örülü bir kitap.
  Arkadaşlık, büyük oranda hesaba ve çıkara indirgenmiş bu yaşam biçiminde birbirini yakından tanımak, ama birbirine yakınlaşıp içini açmamak demekti. Herkesin aynı kaygıları taşıdığı açıktı; kimi kaygıyı hafife, kimi ağıra alarak ötekinden ayrılıyordu, o kadar, o da yaradılış sorunuydu.
" أحسني وحيدة لا رفقة لي سوى الأفكار المحبطة "" ثمة عزلة هائلة في داخلي، ولا رغبة لي في أن أخاطب أحدًا من الناس ""أكلم نفسي إذ أصبحت لا أملك ما أحدث به الآخرين "" بات مجرد العيش أشبه بالتعذيب، ولكن الموت أيضًا كان يروعها "
This is the most beautiful elegy I've ever read.
There is in this book, of course, the outlines of his mother's story, which he narrates in a form that to my mind suggests a writer's journal.
76) But the very nature of his narrative also evokes in me a sense of the life stories of many other individuals that he does not narrate - directly, but that are unmistakably present in subtexts.Above all, there is PH, himself, and my response to him lies in the host of questions that his writing raises in my mind.
رواية غير تقليدية وتحتاج لشيء من التركيزأرجو أن أكتب مراجعة مفصلة للكتاب قريبا مع قراءات أخرى لبيتر هاندكه
لم اكن مستعداً لمثل هذه الرواية الرائعة، كانت طافحة بالحزن واللوعة والاحاسيس. والاشدّ انها كانت سيرة ذاتية للملف وقد صقلت على شكل روايةلا يمكن كذلك الاستغناء عن الاشادة الى العملاق بسام الحجارواجابة على لماذا اعطيت للكتاب ثلاثة نجمات فقط، ذلك لانني وجدت العمل كتلة مرصوصة من الاحاسيس، وهذا ما عاب العمل ولم يفيده، فبرآيي المتواضع اني اجد ان الكاتب اذا انطلق بلا تحفظ وافرغ ما في داخله بعنف وهيجان سيفقد من رصانة كتابه وتماسكه.

This book really didn't work beyond the beginning pages.
The writing was not engaging enough, the biographical style he chose ("after that, she did this..." etc.) is hard to stomach for too long.
You can tell that Handke was conscious of this too, putting in things that broke from the pattern, even a whole page meta-talking about why he decided to write it in this boring style!
The book fails in some interesting ways.
As for the story itself, it was okay; I was especially struck by some of the insights about about her mother growing up towards the beginning.
Handke escribe desde el dolor más profundo sobre la madre; su vida, su muerte. Habla con sinceridad, pero escogiendo, puliendo, las palabras que llevan a todos a sentir el recuerdo, el sentimiento del autor, como algo propio.
Don't get me wrong, this is a fantastic book but it's fantastic in that gut-wrenching, can't-believe-people-lived-their-lives-with-this-much-pain-and-sorrow way.Peter Handke tells the life story of his mother who grew up in Austria, came of age in Germany between the Great War and World War II, and committed suicide in her early fifties.In the beginning he uses a child's game to illustrate his own mother's prospects in life: "The girls in our town used to play a game based on the stations in a woman's life: Tired/Exhausted/Sick/Dying/Dead." (p.
The story, even with a sensational act like suicide, ends not with the grand legacy of traditional biography but with a silent slip into obscurity.
رائعة, ومؤثّرة جدًا, طعّمها المؤلف بإقتباسات من رسائل والدته, وكانت ببساطتها, وبلغتها الصادقة, وحزنها العميق, من أكثر المقاطع عاطفيةً وتأثيرا بالنسبةِ لي, لقد قرأتها بتأثّر شديد, وكنتُ أُطيل تأملها, لقد كانت تهزّني كلماتها, وتؤثّر فيّ, أيّما تأثير!
وكانت الرسائل مسألة ملحّة وعاجلة كما لو أنّها أرادت أن تحفر ذاتها على الورق.[65] الشقاء العادي, ليست رواية, ولا قصّة عادية يمجّد فيها المؤلف والدته, الشقاء العادي عمل أدبي مؤثّر, وصادق, لا تفوّت على نفسك متعة قراءته.بقي لي أن أٌشير إلى أنّ الطبعة التي بين يديّ ترجمتها ليست جيّدة, بل في معظم المقاطع بدت لي رديئةً جدًا.
This slim volume (76 pages) is an author's attempt to process his mother's suicide.
It ends up being both the story of his mother's life, and more generally, about what it was like to be a poor woman in Germany, living through World War II and its aftermath.
About a woman's sense of identity or lack thereof in a pre-feminist society.
That's what saves the book from his attempted detachment from the specifics of his mother.I wonder if he ever wrote or ever will write the more thorough story of his mother promised in the last line of the book...
