https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66863.Only_the_Paranoid_Survive
It's is just like any other common business book written by a High profile CEO.Book is all about "Strategic Inflection Point" that in simple language means any BIG turn of events in your company (or your industry or technology) like Intel ditched Memory business - the business it started with - and moved to microprocessors business.
Create a culture in your team/company so that people are open to you (or their supervisors) without any inhibition of being reprimanded/joked/ignored or given a look like it's above your pay grade dude.
However, there are also 10x forces that fundamentally change the rules, and most people and most organizations fail to adapt to these more fundamental changes quickly enough.For example, think of these changes as waves in the ocean.
Intel took massive losses, but eventually recognized they needed to service both end-consumers and their normal manufacturer customers.According to Andy, there are 6 areas where theses 1x and 10x forces can start:1: Competition: Ex. Your a mom & pop shop when wall-mart comes to town2: Technology: Ex. Sound takes over silent films, Containers overtake shipping of loose items, PC revolution3: Customers: Changing taste in Ford/GM cars.
Today Andy Grove died at the age of 79. His book "Only the Paranoid Survive" talks about his key business philosophy. One should always be on the lookout for new trends or products that might displace or destroy yours. Under him, Intel was famous for cannibilizing their older chips, their cash cows, with the new ones. The competition just couldn't follow their relentless pace. I recommend the book to everyone in management or business whether in high-tech or not.
خیلی وقت بود می خواستم این کتاب رو بخونم ولی فرصت اش پیش نمی یومد، ولی حالا که خوندنش رو تموم کردم ب
Next time one of your reports has something to say and you just want to send them back to the salt mine, consider listening instead.On page 163 there's the story of a "very competent" senior manager at Intel who had some great ideas but according to Grove just went about them poorly.
Coming as it did at this late stage, his dictate seemed utterly arbitrary." Yes, telling a committee of your reports that the results of their lengthy discussions are all wrong and you're going to do the opposite because you think it's better just _seems_ arbitrary.
Inflection The strategies and decisions, and luck, Intel embraced are remarkable and to cover them all in detail in a short book would have been impossible.
A good point that I remember from the book is when Andrew Grove recollects his darkest moment when he realised that not only were the Japanese cheaper in manufacturing memory chips, but their quality levels were at levels that Intel didn’t even think possible.
Intel’s move away from memory to microprocessors was traumatic and the inflection “point” was not so much a point as a long drawn out and painful affair.
The backdrop to that inflection point and others make the book a great learning experience.

Andy Grove, then CEO of Intel Corp, is clearly worth listening to on the subject of management.
More harrowing was Intel's earlier self-transformation from making memory chips to making microprocessors.How to steer an enterprise thru a major change in its business, per Mr. Grove: 1) Figure out if a major change is imminent.
He relates the story of Apple, a company with clearly superior products - the Mac operating system, the first good laser printer - completely missing the shift from proprietary to open PC standards, and ending up as a niche player.
Groves thinks Sculley knew this shift was happening , but wasn't able to overcome Apple's "inertia of success".
But since the book dates back at 1998 & I see some of Grove's prediction has come true by this time, I think 2.5 is enough)My favorite moment from the book is when Gordon Moore & Grove decides to get rid of the memory business at Intel in the face of an inflection point by Japanese manufacturers.
I appreciate Grove's approach to introduce various inflection points in the business from his experience at Intel.
:3Okay, I feel if this book have any new edition, Steve Jobs must have his rightful distinguished place since he revolutionized Apple after his return at 1997.
Although it is funny to read about Apple and Steve Jobs and how they were basically regarded as being left for dead.
The idea of walking out of the building and coming back in like you were a brand new manager/ ceo.
I think that was the real gem of the book.
Highlighting that the best CEO is extremely flexible and creative with the way he/ she thinks.
I also really liked the idea of basing decisions of facts and data.
So if you are in a business that is slow moving and slow changing, a lot of this book could fall on deaf ears for you.
I read High Output Management before, and had a harder time relating his examples to my work in small unstructured startups - but I was able to glide through this quickly.The big key takeaways for me to remember:When change comes to an industry, often the most established company (and the upper management who are most isolated & have the most invested in the way things are) are the slowest to adapt and move forward with the new reality.You have to always listen to the Cassandras of your organization (on the ground people usually) and catch hints of discomfort & change.
مطلب جدیدی در این کتاب پیدا نمیکنید که در سار کتاب های مدیریت و خصوصا مدیریت تغییر نخوانده باشید. بعلاوه کتاب بسیار قدیمی شده است. البته نیروی ششم پورتر که نویسنده به آن اشاره می کند جالب است.
I believe like it says - only the paranoid survive.
And what's related to business, I'm probably paranoid.
Wasn't, but learned."Possibility that what your business does can be done in a different way." is great thing.
If you can't stop over-competitiveness created by over-population, then what you can do, adapt, find new ways.It's interesting to read about technology 20+ years ago: "What is internet anyway?"What is microprocessor anyway?
With technology now everything that's not primary needs loses its value much faster:Why America's Essentials Are Getting More Expensive While Its Toys Are Getting Cheap.
In one word - technology.
Эта книга от одного из отцов легендарной компании Intel будет очень полезна особенно предпринимателям в вопросах предупреждения кризиса их бизнеса. Зачастую кризис похож на водоворот, но о нём как правило стаёт известно, когда с него уже невозможно выбраться. Автор подскажет как вовремя определять такие водовороты, как уберечься от пагубного воздействия, или же бездействия личного человеческого фактора, когда принятие управленческих и стратегических решений нужны было реализовать ещё "вчера".И ещё в книге вы найдёте целый ряд весьма полезных и высококачественных советов вокруг темы кризиса в бизнесе.
A absolute must read for every serious entrepreneur. I wish to become as good leader and entrepreneur as he was. This book does not only touch a very interesting topic that mean life or death for enterprises, but adding the fact that the book was written in the nineties - it's very interesting to see a world class CEOs view on the potential changes Internet will bring - from our perspective in the year 2016.
It is the best one book to decipher the history of Intel.  This is the autobiography of founder.This book's theme is twofold.One is the innovation of micro Professor.And one is a strategy to sell it.This book focuses on the latter.This is a great book to decipher the strategy.Of course Moore's Law in the semiconductor has also been described.
Andy is a shrewd leader who took Intel company from a fail to become a success story all over the world. besides chronological events he shows how a company sooner or later will suffer in a turmoil and only the paranoid and surfing against the waves, inflection points, would help out.This book is a strategy-focused and would benefit any person with needed leadership skills.
This book had some decent concepts. I thought the addition of a 6th (Complementary) force to the traditional Porter's Fiver Forces was very apt and insightful. The book is dated; however, so there is no need to read through fully cover to cover. I think the question, "Is the internet that big a deal? Or is it an overhyped fad?" has been fully put to bed...
I've written about it here: https://bmajewski.wordpress.com/2016/.... Shortly speaking i liked it a lot. It's not as great as Grove's previous work - high output management.
Surprisingly readable book about what it's like to be at a company at the moment when it has to either change the way it operates or go into a decline.That said, I wish I were not the kind of person who now reads business books for fun.
A great read on one of the best companies built in the 20th century. Every person in technology should read this book and see how it is difficult to create great companies
An excelent book! It helped me a lot in writing an essay about Intel Corporation and, to my surprise, give some practical advice for future career. This book was better that I'd expected!
When container shipping revolutionized sea transportation, a “10X” factor reordered the major ports around the world.Wal-Mart: An overwhelming force in townAlternatively, so might redefining your business to provide an environment, rather than a product, that people value, like the example of an independent bookstore that became a coffeehouse with books to compete with the chain bookstores that brought Wal-Mart-style competitive advantages to their business.Leading Via Strategic ActionsDemoralized organizations are unlikely to be able to deal with multiple objectives in their actions.Three rules:One, don’t differentiate without a difference.
For me, one of the lessons o f the book is that Moats, at least in technology are always “weak moats” as the development is just too dynamic.The most powerful concept of the book in my opinion is the following concept from Andy Grove: If you see someone coming up with a new idea or a competing product, then you should ask yourself the question: Is this a thread to the business if this gets 10 times bigger or better or faster ?
I took from this book a sense of always be willing to re-evaluate your personal standing within a company if you are an employee or business owner.
It's very important to always pay attention to external forces that might effect your standard of living or the nature in which your business will operate at some point.
On a personal level, this book really gave me a reflection point on the fact that a lot of companies are fast to lay off in todays day and age.
And how most employees are caught off guard by not paying attention to external information about industries that their work contributes to an their companies strength in their sector.
A good book, but quite outdated - though he talks about how to identify 10X trends, or things that have the ability to drive your business into the ground or take you into the skies if you are able to follow the trend and lead it.The advice is sound but the framework developed to recognize the trends or how to act on it isn't as concrete.
They are generic solutions, i.e. get middle management involved in the decision making process, take care of the inflection points, keep a look out and don't be in delusion, all of these are good advice, but not specific enough.The book can be summed up as.
Of course, since it is his home ground and home industry, he might have dedicated more resources to that specific sector.
This is Grove's book-length argument that one of the main features of successful upper management is to recognize "10" factors that lead to strategic inflection points.
Recognize and seize these opportunities, and your company can thrive; miss them at your peril.
Overall, it's a pretty good read, and gave me a way to think about my position in my current company (I'm one of the Cassandras).
There's a final chapter on treating your own career as a mini-enterprise which I found pretty uncompelling (it has the feel of something tacked on later to enhance sales), but overall I'm glad I read this.
Rather talking about a million things in one way, Grove talks about one thing in a million ways. How can an organisation, a leader, a middle management guy contribute and realign themselves to a fast changing business landscape with a "10X" Force from among those of Porter's Forces.Arguably, what could have made this visionary was if he had gone even beyond the tech industry and proved his point from other industries as well. But even so, a fun read for anyone specially someone interested in tech!

This book was written in 1996 but it wasn't obvious how dated it is today until the second-last chapter, which speaks of the potential of this thing called the 'internet'.
I constantly kept my work projects in mind when reading about recognising strategic inflection points or the duties of a top manager in listening to the various Cassandra's on the work-floor.I wouldn't say the contents of this book have had a lasting impact on me.
Perhaps the concept of strategic inflection points was also bit of an overkill, since it was tirelessly repeated over and over again.What I enjoyed reading the most was Intel's history and that of the memory chips and microprocessors.
