https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/203829.The_Oxford_English_Dictionary
Man this book is booooooooring... It's just a bunch of definitions....
i'm workin' my way straight through! really. my vocab is gonna be HUGE! and then maybe i can move away from all my "hick tawk". prolly not.
Too long.
The Oxford English Dictionary, or OED, is probably the best reference dictionary in the entire world. I have the 1989 20-volume set and so far have yet come up empty when looking something up, which I do at least once a week. It is a prized centerpiece of my book collection and I cannot imagine that it - like airplane tickets, good running shoes and anything by Ross Thomas or Jim Thompson - is anything short of an investment in my future and that of my family.
This was not as riveting a read as one might suspect and the ending was too predictable.
I got this in 1987, so I'm not sure I have this edition. I might have the one before. In any case, this is my most prized book (are the most prized books) in my collection.
Well, not "Read" like "Finished," but I dip into it a lot.
i read this kannada english wards jipuna
Simpson, John, Editor (1989) The Oxford English DictionaryISBN-10: 0198611862 $924.31Content/Scope: The entirety of the English Language, by definition. Literally.Accuracy/Authority: The Oxford Dictionary is one of the most well-known and widely-accepted dictionaries in the world. It is arguably one of the most authoritative dictionaries in the English Speaking world.Arrangement/Presentation: No visuals, words in alphabetical orderRationale: Every reference collection needs a good dictionary, and this is one of the bestProfessional Review: http://www.cro2.org.libsrv.wku.edu/de...
The most comprehensive dictionary of the English language (this second edition consists of over half a million words), its true beauty is the extensive etymology of over 2.5 million quotations. Not only a scholarly masterpiece, it's also a tremendous amount of fun to peruse. Read "The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of the Oxford English Dictionary" for the unusual story of Dr. W.C. Minor, one of the major contributors to the original edition, who was incarcerated for life in England's most notorious insane asylum while working on this project.
Most likely, the OED is completely impractical as an everyday-use dictionary or for school. However, as a reference dictionary, it is probably without peer, thoroughly documenting the history of each and every word to have ever been published in the English language, with every definition and sense listed in chronological order. I'm really looking forward to the publication of the dictionary's third edition, while realizing that it could be impractical for it to appear in print (with a possible size of forty-plus volumes).
I am torn. I haven't the shelf space for a personal copy (to heck with the miniature two volume with magnifying glass, I say) and have yet to receive a set, complete with bookcase, as a Valentine's day gift, but I am not luddite enough to stay away from the online subscription I have access to at work. Print vs. electronic? I say yes to both.Recent wordquisition: "long in the tooth" does refer to age, derived from estimating a horse's age based on its teeth.I heart etymology!
Ever since I was a young boy I dreamed of owning the greatest dictionary in the world. One day my energy company told me I had been overcharged for several years and they owed me £350! A couple of days later while browsing Amazon wondering how to spend it (as one does in times of good  or  ill fortune), I found the OED on special offer at £450! One of my dreams has come true.Now if only Tara would call me after all these years. . . . . .
Without doubt the greatest lexical achievement produced thus far and probably the best printed dictionary that will ever be (since it'll all be just internets from here on out). Beautifully made, cleanly written, and tremendously researched. Fun just to leaf through, definitive in settling disagreements this is a book more people should spend more time with, myself included.
The perfect gift for a freshly minted MLIS graduate. :-) Every entry is a small story that allows for reflection upon how the word has played a role (or has yet to) in my life. Geeky, meditative, and profoundly satisfying.
Truly, if I were ever stranded on a deserted island, the bound version of the OED is all I would need. Well, a songbook with the lyrics to all my favorite Christmas songs would also be nice. I could probably last in isolation indefinitely if I only had those 2 books.
I love this book!!!
I feel that after completing Dr. Suess's One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue Fish, I am fully prepared to read the 20 volume set of the Oxford Dictionary.
The OED rules in the Heavens as the great and powerful god of all English dictionaries. This is hands down the most complete dictionary of the English Language ever made.
The greatest single achievemnt of acadamia in the english language
spelling & pronuciation
This is pretty dry, but I find myself thinking about it daily so there must be something to it. Stylistic very avante garde.
online edition. brilliant but annoying. surprisingly incomplete. more a catalog of historical usage than strictly a dictionary (pure dictionary: websters international tops).
This is one "book" I'll never read all the way through, but it's one of my favorites.
If I had this book on a desert island, my life would not miss a beat.
This is one "book" I don't think you can ever move to the "read" shelf...
An essential resource for any mid-size college with a large population of English majors.-Lara
It sits next to my desk. It will always live on the currently-reading shelf. I've learned that I will never really know my language.
My favorite! Will I ever finish?
A greatly misread tome for lack of adequate instruction. The Oxford English Dictionary reads like a high school chemistry book.
