https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22552026-long-way-down
wow wow wow wow i loved this so much. i've read several books written in verse now and this one was superior to all the ones i've read before. the characters were fleshed out so well and the story itself was engaging and rather suspenseful. i highly recommend this if you're looking to try a book written in this style.
a fast read (only took about an hour to get through) but still very powerful and impactful. jason reynolds has a way with words, and the free-verse format really suits his talents. i haven't read a ton of books in verse, but this is by far my favorite--the word choice, the imagery, the message, the emotional punch--it was all so good. the ending was a little abrupt, but i think it works for the story, and that bit of ambiguity can open up some really interesting discussions. definitely looking forward to reading more by reynolds!
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. A haunting cautionary tale delivered in verse, in which fifteen-year-old Will is forced to consider the potential consequences of his actions as he, armed with a gun and seeking revenge, waits for the elevator in his building to reach the ground floor. THEN THE YELLOW TAPEthat says DO NOT CROSSgets put up, and there's nothing left to do but go home. That tape lets people knowthat this is a murder scene, as
A haunting cautionary tale delivered in verse, in which fifteen-year-old Will is forced to consider the potential consequences of his actions as he, armed with a gun and seeking revenge, waits for the elevator in his building to reach the ground floor.
THEN THE YELLOW TAPEthat says DO NOT CROSSgets put up, and there's nothing left to do but go home.
That tape lets people knowthat this is a murder scene, as if we ain't already know that.
The crowd backs its way into buildings and down blocksuntil nothing is left but the tape.
The tape framed it like it was art.
If you're in a slump and you want a quick interesting read, I would totally recommend this book!It's all about the cycle of violence and written in verse. Really liked it!
Me on Page 1: Oh great, another novel in verse.Me on Page, like, 5: HOLY SHIT.Then I read the whole thing in one sitting.Incredibly powerful, beautifully written. Reynolds doesn't use the device of verse as a crutch; he wields it like a weapon. I think I held my breath for the entire book, and the ending left me gasping. Truly unforgettable.
Uncle Mark should’ve just bought his camera and shot his stupid movie after the first day. Unfortunately, he never shot anything ever again. But my father did. This was incredible. Not only is it so emotional and well-developed, but oh my god, the writing is so good.Ellen Hopkins’ use of verse and poetry is dead and Jason Reynolds killed it, personally, by himself. The double meanings alone are perfect. Jason Reynolds has a way with double meanings. Look at the top quote. A camera shoots. A man
Uncle Mark should’ve just bought his camera and shot his stupid movie after the first day.
Not only is it so emotional and well-developed, but oh my god, the writing is so good.Ellen Hopkins’ use of verse and poetry is dead and Jason Reynolds killed it, personally, by himself.
Jason Reynolds has a way with double meanings.
A camera shoots.
And they need to be told to teens who might be going through things like this.
I think this book has a lot of layers that don't come through at first, but that kill you more and more the deeper you look.Blog | Goodreads | Twitter | Youtube
I'm going to be talking about and sharing this book for a very long time.
Jason's skill at putting words together that grab your heart and head, bringing you into the lives of his characters, kids just trying their best to do what's right and live the way they've been taught, astounds me.
This book is going to have an impact.
I can picture the faces in my head of the former students I wish were still in my classroom so I could put this book right into their hands.
But he gets in the elevator to go downstairs and shoot this guy...and the elevator just fills with all these ghosts who've been shot throughout Will's life.Things to note:A) there are so so many ghosts in Will's life and this makes me so sad I justB) I just got really choked up when this girl steps into the elevator and Will remembers her from his childhood...they were two kids (8 I think??) playing at a playground and she literally got shot and died while his big brother tried to cover them with himselfC) I didn't think the book was preachy, but these ghosts were definitely sending Will the message that keeping the cycle of revenge-killing STOPS NOTHING and helps no oneD) I think it also really explained some of the reasoning behind why there's so much gang violence and shooting.
Books that make my non-book-lovin’ kid not fight me when it comes to reading.
A book that I read in less than half an hour due to its written in verse format.
A powerful book.
An IMPORTANT book that will let children know this is not true as far as Jason Reynolds is concerned .
If Reynolds writes it we’ll read it.ORIGINAL "REVIEW"Because when your non-book-reading kid tells you that you HAVE to read this one right now you put your fluffy romance aside and listen to the boy.
Absolutely genius writing & storytelling, plus so much heart it will drive you to your knees.
Such a fast and powerful read. Wow.
“you coming?”that was an incredible way to start btat if i do say so myself. go read this book. now.
That was incredibly powerful. I can’t wait to read more from this author.
I wish this was written in a traditional format, I just don't seem to click with a story as much whenever it's written in verse. It was still a beautiful read and I definitely appreciate the message of it.
I downloaded this intending on possibly getting to it sometime, but I opened it up out of curiosity and ended up reading the entire thing in about an hour.
I don't have too much to say other than I think this is a really effective coming of age story about how violence and toxic masculinity affects so many young black teens.
Reynolds writes really honestly and the directness of this is such a well-needed nudge in the side.
I understand the meaningfulness of the actions that occurred, but it's still just a personal preference.
Really powerful and unputdownable.
“ANOTHER THING ABOUT THE RULESThey weren't meant to be broken.They were meant for the brokento follow.” ― Jason Reynolds, Long Way DownLong Way Down is a novel written in verse that tells the story of fifteen-year-old Will who seeks to venge his murdered brother Shawn.
But as he takes the elevator down, with a gun tucked in his pants, it stops on each floor and a ghost from Will's past enters, all victims of gun violence, but will that be enough to change his mind ?This was a powerful and unique book , but the reason I’m giving it 3 stars is because it somehow missed the mark for me.
“ANOTHER THING ABOUT THE RULES:They weren't meant to be broken.They were meant for the broken to follow.” I’ve always loved stories written in verse, so when I heard about this own-voice tale of the struggles that toxic masculinity and systemic racism place upon young black men, I was immediately interested. I wanted to focus on supporting as many new-to-me black authors as possible in February, and Jason Reynolds was at the very top of my list. This man has a writing voice that absolutely need
I’ve always loved stories written in verse, so when I heard about this own-voice tale of the struggles that toxic masculinity and systemic racism place upon young black men, I was immediately interested.
That said, I still absolutely loved this book and cannot wait to see what Jason Reynolds releases next.You can find this review and more on my blog, or you can follow me on twitter, bookstagram, or facebook!
Extremely powerful and important. I absolutely loved the poetry.
Speaking to the verse (and I don't know if all poetry is like this so I could be grossly misguided on this front), what I appreciated the most was how it read like a fully formed story stripped of frivolity where only the bare-bones -- the meat and potatoes -- of the story remained.
This book is only 300+ pages, and in truth, will only take you an hour+ to read, but the dialogues summoned by this story speaks volumes to the social climate today.I'm honestly at a loss for words as to how to review this kind of book because is this really a fictional story?
Short, but so powerful and thought-provoking. A must read IMO!The entire book is written in verse and covers the time span of 60 seconds, all starting with an elevator ride.Who gets on, and more importantly who gets off, is what makes this read so powerful.Storytelling at it's best!!
I read this book because it was suggested to me as a YA diversity book.
I really enjoyed it.
This book is written in a poetic form and is easy to follow.
The main character is fifteen-year-old Will and he witnesses his brother Shawn get shot and killed.
This makes will mad and he wants revenge so gets a gun and rides an elevator up to the seventh floor to kill his brother's murder.
They all talk him through his choices and if killing his brother's murder is really such a good idea.I really enjoyed this book and suggest it to everyone!
This was pure brilliance. I was sucked in and finished before I knew it.
I started this book 3 days ago.
Wow this is a good story and it is written in verse which is a very efective way of telling it.Its about this boy who's brother is shot dead, his mother is heartbroken and he is out for revenge.He grabs the gun.
Then he gets into the elevator to go down.He is following the rules that have been handed down from generation to generation, but what if the rules are wrong and all your left with is more heartache.As he goes down at each floor someone gets on that he hasn't seen in a lifetime.They talk, they tell and in some ways they challenge.This is a story about truth, second chances and choice.
Reynolds' narration solves those problems for me, plus it's just superb.While I can understand some people's issues with the brevity of this book (It took less than 2 hours to listen to the whole audiobook), I think it lends the story a sense of urgency.
I had no issues with character development, or any of the other criticisms short books tend to get.
He looks at each character with empathy, something so often denied to black people in America.It's a beautifully written, incredibly powerful book.
I personally just find with every book in verse I read that it isn't a style that works well for me no matter how much I try it.
However, I was still left pondering this style because it left me a bit confused by the ending.
Maybe I was reading too much into things, looking for structure that verse doesn't abide by, or maybe the audio format caused me to miss something.Nonetheless, I feel this is a raw and powerful story and would highly recommend it!Personal enjoyment: 3 starsAudiobook narration: 5 stars
You coming?
This does not effect my opinion in any way.--Initial post reading thoughts:This is one of those stories that will stay with you forever.
The fast pace worked really well with the themes of the story and made it feel all the more realistic.The concept/execution.
Long Way Down tells the story of a young boy named Will who has just lost his older brother due to gun violence.
Long Way Down does a fantastic job in making these issues known, but also in making sure that teens who read this novel realize how gun violence, and making one terrible decision, can change your life forever.--What I Didn’t LikeLoved it all.
This was outstanding.Written in verse, it was a deeply moving and disturbing read.The timeline is just 60 seconds long, the space of an elevator ride. Each floor representing a turning point, a course of events, that leads the main character, Will, to this moment in time.A short read, but brilliantly executed.
...I...I don't know if I can actually explain how absolutely amazing this book is. Just buy, read it.
