https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/327246.Anatomy_for_the_Artist
I have this book in both the large A3 size and the smaller size. It offers very clear images of anatomy, bone structure, muscles, ect, and is invaluable as a resource for me when I want to research how the body works for a new painting.
Found my grandson at the age of 4 reading this book. He said to me "Grandpa these are just like my dinosaur books only about people." He was very fascinated by it.
Fantastic for improving on sketching difficult parts of the body, like hands and feet. Provides some complex examples but talks you through them, with beautiful artwork throughout.
This is less a book than a tome of knowledge; and like any good tome, it will take a long, long time to decipher all the meaning in the strange words and diagrams.
The opportunity of getting a support from any individual set to get on paper my faculty essay for me is exceedingly attractive.
Our superior staff of registered authors express outcomes time periods and party that will help you during the time you try to ask us to get in creating my essays.
We certainly have safely and securely routed tens of various thousand paperwork for our purchasers on all practical concepts, which goods us helpful personal-feeling that we shall exceed your anticipation at the time you spot your buy around.
Individuals regular citizens were actually actually pleading: “help me craft my essay” they documented.
Great reference book
I've had this book a long time. It is a really good art book that shows the musculature and how the muscles move in both the male and female form. Excellent drawings in differing positions: using your imagination you can see exactly how the muscles react to each other. Keep in mind these are drawings and NOT actual anatomy. They may not be as precise as you'd like! They are, however, an excellent starting point.
Every artist should have this book.It's great for someone wanting to know the human form and how to draw it. Most artists, and some non-artists, that I know have this book on their shelves. It's very accessible and makes drawing the form less overwhelming. I know it eliminated my fears of drawing the human form as it did for my non-artist friends.It's one of the better art book to have and share.
A good book, when you need to reference anything about the body.
seems like a great books cant wait to read attttt
A good reference. Definately not one I would pick as a sole resoucre, but I nice supplement for instruction.I tend to be picky with the anatomy books I choose for teaching children.
This book was a great read!
I found this book interesting but a bit to confusing at times.
Wonderful reference for figure drawing students. Helped me see the volume of the model.
This has to be one of the best anatomical books for artists out there. I learned a great deal, and it's an amazing guide while practicing figure drawing.
Big, lumbrous volume. Wish it were as useful as it is heavy.
the book was very interesting history as it speaks as the fascination with the human body and as in those times was frowned upon but it is a good book :)
Clem Robbins - cross-sectional diagramsRecommended by Matt DTO
This is a great reference book for the body. The illustration is absolutely gorgeous and extremely detailed and accurate.
Good book.
Good anatomy book with beautifully drawns pictures - old style book.
....
A favorite reference ... is gone....
