https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/151691.Cosmic_Connection
This is the third book of Carl Sagan's work's, that I have read recently.
Yet again, Mr Sagan has not left me disappointed.This book consists of a collection of short essays on subjects that can be most complex, but Sagan explains it all, in such a way, so that we can all understand and enjoy it.
It tells us about the Solar system, and touches on the topic of extraterrestrial life.
Maybe the best thing about reading Sagans books, is I can hear his voice talking when reading.
Even though this book is rather dated now, it most definitely makes for a riveting and interesting read.
“A friend asked me to come to talk to his class,” Sagan writes in one essay in The Cosmic Connection, “which, he assured me, knew nothing about astronomy but was eager to learn.” So Sagan goes to his young friend’s class, armed with slides of colorful gaseous nebulas to entertain the kiddies, and then makes the mistake of asking the class how mankind figured out the earth was round.
Another says, well, what about that guy Magello who sailed around the world?
You can’t sail around the world if it isn’t round.
A fourth kid says, hey, don’t you know there’s pictures of earth from space, and the pictures are all round?
Here are some highlights :From the first chapter, “A Transitional Animal”, describing the 5-billion year history of Earth."In Man, not only is adaptive information acquired in the lifetime of a single individual, but it is passed on extra-genetically through learning, through books, through education.
We are made of star-stuff."Other chapters concern extraterrestrial life as an “idea whose time has come”, focusing on the likelihood of other planetary system [he would so gratified by the recent Kepler discoveries]; a dismissal of the idea that UFOs are evidence of ETs having visited us, mostly on statistical grounds….
It's almost like a magical reality to read your book as a tribute, unintentionally and accidentally, on your birthday.
After the discovery of your birth date, I can only imagine by this random co-incidence, an ordinary mind like myself from a different sub-continent, who is not currently engaged in any scientific pursuit, is reading your book purely for entertainment and enlightenment.
This is what you have to know, to understand how beautiful and imaginative your work is.I may be somewhat biased to say that it is sad to see that people are loosing scientific temper; however you are the best astrophysicist author, an intelligent gift to humanity who will continue to inspire young mind around the planet.
The topics that are briefly brushed upon here, have been thoroughly explored in his subsequent works and this piece of text does well to introduce to the reader all those aspects of planetary astronomy and sub-fields of it; namely exploration, terraforming and colonization of planets, communications with extra-terrestrial and terrestrial non-human intelligences, understanding of planetary geology to understand our own planet etc.In his very familiar eloquent and ascetic manner, Sagan tells the reader about his/her place in the Universe in an essay Unicorn of Cetus, it shows the place of Sun among other stars and constellations as seen from elsewhere in the Galaxy.
Two language review :I am saying this again: I read non-fiction books too sloooowwww...Carl Sagan is my favorite astronomer.
His writing style is flowing, easy and funny.
His optimism and fascination towards the science and cosmos are inspiring.I loved most of his essays about space explorations and ideas.
Some were a bit repetitive and boring, so I skipped those parts.
However most of them were enjoyable.
Kitabı uzun müddətə oxumağıma baxmayaraq çox hissəsini bəyəndim.
Carl Saganın dili axıcı və sadə, bir o qədər də əyləncəlidir.
İdeaları və kosmosa qarşı olan hədsiz marağı oxucunu həyəcanlandırır.
Bəzi hissələrini sürətli keçirməyimə baxmayaraq, kitabdan həzz aldım.
Carl Sagan's collection of short essays on all things cosmic is a very interesting and enjoyable read.
The author presents cosmology, physics, biology and nuclear electrickery that can be understood by small children.
(Somebody fetch me a small child.) His views of the universe from some thirty years back are still relevant and topical today.
None the less, Sagan throws in human history, chemistry and the odd scraps of atomic theories to accompany us on his grand tour of our solar system and beyond.Carl was such a cool dude.
Almost a sixties hippy, his written work should be compulsory reading matter.
Although outdated, it is an interesting reading, with a lot of funny moments from Sagan's experience.
"The Cosmic Connection" е от по-ранните произведения на Карл Сейгън (1973г.). Включва есета обединени от темите за космическата перспектива и нуждата от астрономията, изследването на Слънчевата с-ма (и отвъд) и извънземния разум. Някои от идеите вътре, по-късно ще намерят място в едни от най-значимите му творби, като: "КОСМОС" и "Бледа синя точица". Въпреки, че на места определено е поостаряла, гласът на Сейгън е все така силен и въздействащ. Прекрасна книга!
Se trata de una compilación de artículos escritos por Carl Sagan, agrupados en tres grandes bloques: Perspectivas Cósmicas, El Sistema Solar y Más allá del Sistema Solar.Muchos de los capítulos comparten contenidos con algunos de los episodios de la famosa serie Cosmos, como por ejemplo los frecuentes paralelismos entre la exploración espacial y la Era de los Descubrimientos; el esfuerzo por desmontar las supersticiones (mitos, religiones, astrología, new age, etc) y promover el espíritu científico; o las referencias a las vidas de eminentes astrónomos como Johannes Kepler o Christhiaan Huygens.La totalidad de los artículos que componen el libro datan de la década de los 70.
For awhile, I've sided with the late Zen teacher Shunryu Suzuki's view of space exploration.
Going inside ourselves, Zen, is the antidote to this material searching.
Contrary to Suzuki's views, perhaps going into space *is* going inside ourselves.
But could going "out there" help us realize what home means?I've not even touched on the book itself, my first reading of Sagan.
His popularity makes perfect sense: the writing is joyously accessible, full of paradigm-shifting perspectives that will have you constantly referencing the internet for photos of Mars' moons or neutron stars.
"Cosmic Connection: An Extraterrestrial Perspective", the tenth Carl's book I've read so far, is a collection of essays by the one and only Carl Sagan during the 60s and 70s.
Most of the chapters later were improved with exquisitely detailed explanations by Carl himself in his next books.
After the publication of this book, we have since sent space probes to other worlds in order to dig their mysteries, which makes our previous speculations outdated, but I personally think the book still did a wonderful job in offering me many thought-provoking ideas related to our lives in the universe.
Much of the information is now dated but the book is still a compelling, cogent and well thought out argument for a continuing and active human presence in space. The gutting of the manned NASA missions by the Carter administration shortly after this was published and the struggle for both funding and clear cut purpose following the end of the Apollo program make the optimistic tone of the book ring somewhat hollow today, but just imagine what if...
“I have just finished The Cosmic Connection and loved every word of it. You are my idea of a good writer because you have an unmannered style, and when I read what you write, I hear you talking. One thing about the book made me nervous. It was entirely too obvious that you are smarter than I am. I hate that.” —Isaac Asimov to Carl Sagan
Cosmic Connection: An Extraterrestrial Perspective is an anthology of essays or scientific papers written by Carl Sagan and edited by Jerome Agel.
This anthology explores humanity's place in the grand scheme of things – in a galactic or even universal sense.Carl Sagan covers several topics, and focuses mainly on the possibility of extra-terrestrial intelligence, the likelihood of the existence of more advanced civilizations, and their distribution in the local galaxy, and in the universe.
Like most anthologies, there are weaker contributions, but I think this one might be an exception to the rule, because I generally liked this book.All in all, Cosmic Connection: An Extraterrestrial Perspective is a wonderful anthology about humanity's place in the universe.
I mean, you read about “a universe with billions and billions of stars” as if there were any possibility of you ever understanding what this could mean [you keep asking yourself, how on earth could they have access to such data?], you read about black holes as cosmic gateways, you read about Einstein’s theory of relativity and how it changed the old notions of space and time, you read all these things much like you’d read a fiction book.
The message that the late and great Carl Sagan wrote in this masterpiece in about 1972 is ever so relevant even today. Mr. Sagan was both an amazing scientist and an amazing communicator of science to the general public. I had much pleasure reading this book to my 3-year old daughter as well as consuming it to myself. Much love, respect and admiration for the great sage.
It seems like this book should be way more out of date than it is. The only things that reveal how old it is are the references to the Soviet Union and, depressingly, the overly optimistic predictions of where we would be by this time.
read this back in the 70s, along with Murmurs of Earth. Loved them both. A little later I read Cosmos, probably when the movie came. Don't remember what I thought of that one.
All humans should read this book. Highly recommended.
A nice book of mr. Sagan with a little less thunder than his bigger works. This means that this book is rather more personal and written in a more casual way, describing his personal touch for matters like some of his experiments and space programs he participated in.  I loved the part on the pioneer’s golden plaque, the debate around it and the many weird comments he got in the mail. it’s also rather interesting to read which of his predictions came true (probes to the sun just recently!) and which didn’t (moon colonies). an interesting read overall.
“Life forms developed that were finely tuned to their specific environments exquisitely adapted to the conditions.
The conditions changed, the climate varied, but the organisms were able to continue.
Many more species of organisms have died during the history of the Earth than are alive today.
But he was able to ponder the mystery of his origins, the strange and tortuous path by which he had emerged from star-stuff.
Our planet was formed from the dregs of star-stuff.
The atoms necessary for the origin of life were cooked in the interiors of red giant stars.
Then I would have gathered that the plaque from the Pioneer 10 spacecraft was one of the images seen in David Bowie's last album for the song "Girl Loves Me", it was positioned in the center of the 20 pointed star.Sigh.
I love all the references dotted throughout and Sagan's ability to be kinda smart ass with certain types of limited view points (people complaining about the depiction of sexual characteristics on Pioneer 10 plaque, for instance) but also keenly sensitive to real criticism regarding race, gender, prejudice, and sexism.
And he longed to return to the stars.""In warfare, man against man, it is common for each side to dehumanize the other so that there will be none of the natural misgivings that a human being has at slaughtering another.
For Americans, covert reclassifications of other peoples as untermenschen has been the lubricant of military and economic machinery, from the early wars against the American Indians to our most recent military involvements, where other human beings, military adversaries but inheritors of an ancient culture, are decried as gooks, slopeheads, slanteyes, and son on--a litany of dehumanization--until our soldiers and airmen could feel comfortable at slaughtering them.Automated warfare and aerial destruction of unseen targets make such dehumanization all the easier.
It does provide, however, a very lucid description of the origins of the solar system, the development of life and its progression and wider place in the universe (at least as understood up to the early 1970s when it was written).Our space probes are discussed, including the Pioneer probes which Sagan himself worked on -- I hadn't realised that there was such controversy over the plaques that were mounted on Pioneers 10 and 11 -- and he describes how they were used to develop and test theories about the planets of the solar system.Sagan isn't afraid to speculate about the possibility of life on other worlds and the possible means of listening for them, and maybe even communicating with them.
გვხვდება იგივე თემები: მზის სისტემის პლანეტების კვლევა, რომელიც ჯერ კიდევ ადრეულ ეტაპზეა (მარინერ 9, ვენერა 4 პიონერ 10) სიცოცხლის წარმოშობა.
ზუსტად იგივე თემები უფრო სიღრმისეულად და ლამაზად დაწერილი, უფრო გამდიდრებული ახალი მეცნიერული აღმოჩენნებით შეგიძლიათ წაიკითხოთ კოსმოსში და მკრთალ ლურჯ წერტილში.
თუმცა ეს წიგნი ვერ არის განსხვავებული, უფრო სიღრმისეული ან ფილოსოფიური, ისეთი კლასიკა როგორიც ზემოთ დასახელებული ორი წიგნი, მაგრამ მაინც საინტერესო და სასიამოვნო საკითხავი, გვიანდელი ნამუშევრებისგან განსხვავდება იმით რომ ბუნებრივია ფოკუსი კეთდება 1960-1972 მისიებზე, რაც გვიანდელ წიგნებში ნაკლებია, მაგალითად პიონერ 10-ზე და მისი ფირფიტის მესიჯის გაშიფვრაზე.
მკრთალ ლურჯ წერტილში შეგიძლიათ წაიკითხოთ ვოიაჯერზე და მის მესიჯზე, აქ კი არანაკლებ საინტერესო პიონერ 10-ზე.
I knew about the book from the documentary Cosmos: A Space Odyssey (2014) hosted by Neil Degrasse Tyson.
There are interesting reactions from people and is told in the book.There are some interesting discussion on why alien hasn't visited us (Fermi paradox), the way to search for them, is it wise to search for them, etc.
Then how life got started.The books ends with neutron star/ pulsar and black holes, these were theoretical space objects that scientists had hypothesised which later found out to exists.
Pulsars are used as "space candle" to measure distance.
And black hole is left to the wonders of the reader as a possible "space station" to traverse the long distance of space.
The Cosmic Connection is directed squarely at the layman.
The chapters are short, each one an essay.
In one chapter, he goes to a primary school prepared to entertain rather than teach.
For example, the response to Pioneer 10 gold plaque, which he helped create, is extensively discussed.
Some of it is truly hysterical, particularly the responses in the press and the imagined discussions amongst aliens.
Surprisingly, the book hasn’t dated at all, despite being published in 1973.
I’ve only ever read one other of his books, Contact (made into a movie with Jodie Foster); The Cosmic Connection has inspired me to read more.
In reading this book I am convinced that most of it was over my head.
In a hundred billion galaxies you will not find another." The kind of haunting loneliness that emanates from this statement is a common theme in this book, recurring in many chapters where contact with extraterrestrial life is discussed.
Chapters 37, 38, and 39, (the last chapters in the book) are a beautifully described overview of the origins of life, the death of stars, and possible space exploration through black-holes.
If one chooses to only read part of the book, these ones would be well worth their time.
the epilogue provides some up-to-date corrections on some of sagan's predictions when he wrote the book which i felt was very important to the acceptance of sagan's theme.
i also thought it was interesting to see what 30+ years of studies research and development has done to the face of astrophysics in terms of what we know and what we can deduce.
if one has already read cosmos, this book is simply a less lyrical version without photos.
but since he wrote this prior to cosmos, it is completely understandable.
