https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/388018.The_Clocks
This Hercule Poirot murder mystery is rather unusual, since he isn't in it very much.
The door is unlocked, as she had been informed beforehand, enters the sitting -room and waits for the owner, to arrive.
Then in comes Miss Pebmarsh, and almost steps on the victim, like a bat out of hell, the screaming Sheila, says, emphatically ...Eeeeeeeeek!
Coming out the door, collides with a secret agent Mr.Colin Lamb, not his real name, what self- respecting operative would give it.
And the owner says she has only two clocks there, has the criminal brought them, the first time a thief brings gifts...
Murder is never the best of reasons to engage in romance, but for you, the two become intertwined before you know it.
In a way, it is not hard to understand why: temporary secretaries are their own kind of secret agent, slipping in and out of mysterious situations, reporting what they know to their benefactor, a constant smile on their lips and calm professionalism their by-word.
When double agents meet: fireworks!
But who is an agent and who is the pawn?
What are the motives of your benefactors?
جثة في بيت عمياء ومكتشفة الجثة فتاة اختزال تذهب الى البيت عن طريق مكالمة هاتفية ثم تبين ان صاحبة الشقة لم تقم بهذا الاتصال.هيركيول بوارو يكتشف القاتل بدون ان يشارك في التحقيقات وهو جالس في مكتبه.لم استمتع بها اعتقد بسبب سوء الترجمة من يحب قراءتها يبحث عن طبعة اخرى .
I loved the strange, eeriness of the murder and the characters were all so peculiar.
I was really aiming high for the grand finale, but at the end it all tumbled out within 10 or so pages and was a bit of a disappointment, added to which, Poirot was conspicuous by his absence for the majority of the book which was a shame.
I assume Christie was by now getting a bit sick of writing wonderful plots for her marvellous creation and so was trying to keep him 'away' whilst other characters took the lead.
Wonderful, followed sharply by a letdown.
So, here's the thing.
No Christie is a bad Christie but that doesn't mean they are all created equally.
This one began in such an intriguing manner - a dead man, a blind woman, a stenographer, and several clocks whose presence no-one can account for - that I felt sure it was about to become a new favourite.
What was so initially compelling, however, unravelled too slowly for me to continue with the breathless engagement that I begun this with.
This still delivered a wonderful ending that managed pull together all the disparate strings of the story but the central lagging hasn't convinced me that this is one of Christie's best.
One of the rare boring Poirot novel. For more than eighty percent of the story Poirot is missing and the actual investigations are being handled by some body else. Suddenly he appears , asks a few questions and solves the case. Unbelievable. It is almost as if Agatha had a brain wave and decided to include Poirot at the last moment. Avoidable
This one features the “mature” writing of Christie, a book published in 1963, 43 years after her first Poirot, The Mysterious Affair at Styles, published in 1920!
That’s worse.” *A clever and precocious young girl, Geraldine, maybe the youngest Christie (a Grandmother now) has featured as a central figure in her story.
The section featuring this girl is one of the most engaging parts of the book, but she doesn’t come into until ¾ of the way, augh!*A cat lady*Lots of deliberately set false leads by the murdererTo be fair, I am a little tired of Christie at this point.
Though Poirot makes only little appearances in this story, it's worth it to hear the detective's take on various mystery stories and their authors.
Not to mention Poirot gets to exercise his "little grey cells" from home when the narrator of this mystery, Charles Lamb, takes the facts as he knows them to Poirot, in an effort to both enliven Poirot's day and to stump the Belgian detective.
This is Poirot, and Lamb should have had more faith, as Poirot deduces the solution to the case involving a mystery dead guy, too many clocks set to the wrong time, a young stenographer, a blind, elderly teacher, and several individuals in the same neighbourhood of the crime.
Il titolo è già l'indizio di come sarà la storia che si svilupperà....Crowdean, Sussex.
Colin Lamb, biologo marino nonché agente del controspionaggio inglese, sta cercando qualcuno al 61 di Wilbraham Crescent quando si imbatte in una ragazza che fugge atterrita dalla casa del numero 1, dove ha scoperto un cadavere.
E per giunta non si capisce come mai siano lì, visto che non appartengono alla padrona di casa, una signora cieca ma tanto indipendente da destare sospetti.
Ma non per Hercule Poirot, che ha raccolto come una sfida l'invito a partecipare alle indagini rivoltogli da Lamb.
Having said this, I rather enjoyed this investigation at the hand of an unknown.Apart from our crime story, this novel also felt like a medium for Christie to share thoughts on writing.
In this title, she goes one step further, reminding me a little of something Jane Austen did in Northanger Abbey - she uses Poirot's voice to discuss the crime writing genre, mentioning the following: The Leavenworth Case by Anna Katherine Green (TBR), The Extraordinary Adventures of Arsene Lupin by Maurice Leblanc (I grew up with these stories), The Mystery of the Yellow Room by Gaston Leroux (yep, read this one too and its sequel), and let's not forget Sherlock Holmes!
Chiar nu ma așteptam
2.5/5İlk defa bir Agatha kitabına bu kadar düşük puan veriyorum. Bu beni de bayağı bir şaşırtsa da bu kitabı pek sevemedim. Çok fazla tesadüfi olayların olması beni rahatsız etti. Üstelik canım Poirot'nun sahneye çıkmasını çok uzun süre beklemek beni üzdü :(
Found out who the killer was but not why. Really entertaining
He has decided that he will solve Colin Lamb's case without going to the scenes or talking to witnesses, doing this apparently is supposed to awe all around Poirot with his wonderful grey cells.The main character is actually Colin Lamb.
Especially because one was revealed towards the very end and it caused me to actually go back through the book to see if I had missed something.
Nope, I hadn't missed a thing, it was just kind of dropped there at the end of the book.The main plot-line of discovering who murdered a man at number 19 Wilbraham Crescent took up the majority of the book.
Another great tale from the queen of crimes!Ohh..how I deceived myself when I congratulate myself too early! What a shame :( But on the other hand, I did make the right guesses on a few things, so all is not lost (yeay!!).This story took on a Miss-Marple-ish type of narration. Hercule Poirot only came into the picture after more than 60% of the book. But as always, he would steal the limelight from others even by a brief appearance! And what a conclusion!
Impresionantă!
Time for murder...When Sheila Webb is sent out by the secretarial agency for which she works to the home of a blind lady, Miss Pebmarsh, to take some dictation, she is not expecting to find the corpse of a dead man in a room filled with clocks of different styles, but all pointing to the same time – 4:13.
It works quite well, and Colin is a likeable character, but my preference is for the books where Poirot is more directly involved.
In a parlor in which there are several clocks, only one of which is set to the correct time.
(I'd read the book again just for the description of the bookstore.)The stories of the murder investigation and the spy-hunting intersect at one point; Poirot enters at another; the mystery is resolved at the end thanks to a small child.
(Small children are often featured in mysteries as the 'one who saw something,' - did you ever notice?) Anyhow, I enjoyed it but took off a star because I felt the ending was a little contrived.
What an excellent mystery! It kept me guessing the whole time. Who was the murdered guy? Why was he murdered at a blind woman's house? Who was the murderer? I should perhaps admit that the explanation did not quite satisfy me, too many coincidences to be true but on the whole i found this book amazing and definately a page turner. Go ahead and read it, it will not dissapoint you!
De verdad creí que estaba cerca, pero la verdad era que lo que descubrí estaba relacionado con el otro crimen y ni me di cuenta.Amo a Agatha y sus libros, lo rápido que pasan y como todos sus personajes son tan humanos.Mi querido Poirot no apareció mucho por aquí, pero su aporte fue estelar, sobre todo con la broma que hizo.
Todo el tiempo pensé que la respuesta iba por otro camino, pero no.Colin y su amor estuvo un poco de más, apoyo a Dick y Poirot con que es un tonto.
Even though my mother was a fan of Agatha Christie, for some reason, I never read any of her books when I was growing up, despite being a fan of the mystery genre myself.
When the video game, And Then There Were None (which was based on Agatha Christie's novel) was released, I decided to seek out a copy of it to read before trying out the game.
(The book has been read but the game has only seen about 10 minutes of action so far...) I found And Then There Were None strangely compelling, even with the old-fashioned writing, and I did not hesitate to pick up The Clocks when I saw it at meet-up.
I usually enjoy Agatha Christie's novels, especially those with the often insufferable Hercule Poirot.
Although Hercule Poirot is a character in this one, he is barely in the novel, away from the scene of the crime, acting as Colin Lamb's advisor, showing how he could solve any crime through his intellect alone.
I found many of the characters almost indistinguishable from each other, flat and featureless; the plot was tedious in spots.
A dead man, in a blind woman's house, surrounded by numerous clocks, all stopped at 4:13 was a great beginning for a cosy mystery.
The rest of the novel, though, fizzled, not sparkled, for me.
Hayatımda ilk kez Agatha okuduğum için şaşkınım. Kitap bittikten sonra aklıma ilk gelen şey oldu: Yoruma ne yazacağım ben?Kitap eski, ok. Sanırım 1960’lar-1970’ler. Olaya sonradan dahil olan belli ki diğer kitapların da baş kahramanı Hercule Poirot’a gıcık oldum. Sherlock özentisi ama tırnağı bile olamaz. Bir kere çok aksi ve kendini beğenmiş.Genel kurgusu güzeldi. Yazım dili sadeydi. Beğendim.
Sách hơi dài, nhưng là độ dài hơi gây chán một tí, do những chi tiết và các đoạn hội thoại lằng nhằng không đáng có. Tuy nhiên, càng về cuối thì truyện lại càng hay, đặc biệt là lúc phá án, đúng chất Agatha Christie luôn ^^
Well, this is what happens when I stay at home with a rather nasty cold: I manage to read a book in about 24h.
I had plenty of time, the story was of the engrossing type, and it read so well.
Although, regarding Poirot, I must say I had expected more of him.I had never heard of this particular book and found the story very curious indeed for most of the book.
The end, the resolution, was not what I had been expecting and was a bit disappointing, but reading this was well worth it.
It's been a long time since I've read Agatha Christie (I went through a major phrase in about 8th grade), but I do remember that some of her novels are marvelous and others well . . . less so. This one seemed quite ordinary to me. It's not really a Hercule Poirot mystery, though the Belgian does appear (but not until almost halfway through). The long digression about other crime writers slows down an already slow moving story. But hey, there's a quote from "The Walrus and the Carpenter." In short, read Agatha Christie, but maybe not this one.
*** spoilers follow ***There is something so refreshing about reading an Agatha Christie mystery halfway through the year!
An arrogant Belgium, his curly mustache, and penchant for solving crimes is indubitably the perfect interim solution!I think what I like best about Agatha Christie is that she really does provide you with all the clues throughout her story for YOU to solve the mystery.
At the end, it's not "omgz, deus ex machina" or "hey, meet this totally random and unexpected character who I'm going to weakly utilize to tie up my loose ends." I knew (okay, I was 80% ceertain) from about page 70 of this book that it was Miss Martindale.
In fact, this mystery was actually investigated by a friend of Poirot, Colin Lamb who seemed to be secret service (how many times Lamb appeared in other books I don’t remember, it’s been about 30 years since I’ve read these.
It was an odd request since Sheila was asked for by name but she had never been to Miss Pebmarsh’s house.Upon arrival, she finds a dead man on the floor and the room is stuffed with clocks of all types including one with the word Rosemary on it.
However, another girl at Sheila’s office ends up dead after trying to contact the police and it looks like Sheila might be involved.
I find it telling that The Clocks is subtitled "A Hercule Poirot Mystery".
Charles Lamb, our narrator, is quite able to solve the case himself and Poirot actually has very little "screen time", so to speak.
Even so, I do not think of this as a Poirot case.
Alas, The Clocks is not her best work.
She wrote better mysteries directly before and after The Clocks, so I think of this as a bit of a lull in a strong era in her career, although it is by no means wholly without merit.
Another good story from the queen of mystery.
Poirot has aged quite a bit, and so he no longer investigates crimes like he used to.
The scene of the crime: a blind woman's sitting room, with the addition of four mysterious clocks set to the same, wrong time.
All Colin Lamb wants is an answer, and although Poirot is absolutely incredible at finding the answers, he likes to play with his audience and put on a show.
This time, the answer was so far from what I had been thinking, I at first doubted the power of Hercule Poirot.
