https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/251648.Return_From_the_Stars
Specifically I think Lem invented PTSD; and Return From the Stars is his diagnostic guide to the condition.*PTSD is of course stress-related and occurs primarily through the experience of extended periods of life-threatening activities, particularly but not exclusively warfare.
Because there are fewer individuals affected than in ‘world’ conflicts, and the personal risk of expressing the impact of their experiences in a culture which does not respect much less value those experiences, the psychic strain is of a unique variety.Lem’s protagonist, Bregg, doesn’t return to Earth from war.
Stanislaw Lem took me completely by surprise with his 1961 novel of American astronaut Hal Bregg’s returning to Earth 127 years into the future.
We follow Hal as he recounts dozens of his intriguing encounters and discoveries – to list several: airplane seats expanding into egg-shaped cocoons as a way of providing the ultimate in privacy (to my mind, a splendid invention), a woman wearing a dress with large peacock eyes that blink, an airport terminal smelling like a thousand scented soaps, a white cake that instantly foams, turns brown and hardens and has the taste of a freshly baked roll, conversations with a physician and a mathematician recounting the advances made in their respective fields in the last one hundred years.
Everything now is lukewarm, Bregg.”Thus, in many ways this story serves as a thought experiment and precautionary tale on the dangers of the power of future science to improve upon human nature.
As a story written in 1961, the communications network and role-playing dramas these humans spend so much of their time with is somewhat predictive of the Internet and its impact on society today.
Two other books published in the following year, 1962, examined related ways for science to blunder in trying to conquer aggression in human nature.
Definitely one of my favourite books written by one of my favourite authors. However sci-fi, it actually tells a story of a lonely man. A man that cannot find himself in the new world... Didn't it happen to all of us at least once in a lifetime? Absolutely a masterpiece!
I cannot rate this book as I absolutely loathed it.
I didn't like the main character Hal Bregg who has returned to earth after 127 years, even though only ten biological years have passed for him.The book seemed to be all over the place.
No books in bookshops - insane; robots and then finally Hal falls in love with Eri and well that was the end of the book for me.
Still the one positive fact is this book gives other people pleasure and that's the main thing.
As I've often stated, we cannot all love the same books.
Тогава бяха една славни години на космическата експанзия.И в разгара на масовата истерия Лем задава въпроса - и за какво е всичко това?Книгата реално е писана преди полета на първия космонавт.
Във времена когато всички са вперили поглед към Спутник и чакайки полета на Гагарин.Всъщност темата за безмислието на дългите космически полети Лем развива и в "Магелановият облак".Развитието на съвременната космонавтика до голяма степен показва, че е бил прав - хората нямат работа в космоса!Всичко това може (а и се върщи) по-добре от роботите.Но ние имаме нужда от Космоса!
I generally adore Stanislaw Lem, but what the shitting shit hell is this?
A man returns from a cosmic voyage, over a century has passed on Earth and so of course the culture is entirely different.
So his reaction is to forcibly kiss one lady, then go batshit insane another poor soul, decide that he's in "love" with her or something, and basically abduct her and coerce her into staying with him.
WHAT DID YOU THINK WAS HAPPENING?
God it was just unbearable.
Anything else potentially commendable about the book is just completely destroyed by all this garbage.
I'm not sure what to think of "Return From The Stars." At times I liked it and at other times I felt indifferent to it.
The novel follows the main character, Hal, through the hardships of returning to Earth from a deep space exploration after nearly 130 years--only ten to him.
And then it ends with this whole cyclical journey hooey that does not read a prophetic as I think the author intended.
The discussions of the space exploration Hal just returned from are interesting, but they make up such a small portion of the novel I was left feeling a little short-changed.
A couple years back, I read the first James bond book (Casino Royale) and was appalled by Fleming's allusions to "the sweet tang of rape." Even more horrifying was my conversation with a male friend afterwards, who claimed that every man wants to be just like James Bond, and continued with this claim even after I read passages to him (including the rape passage) and explained how much of a misogynistic asshole Bond is in the books.
The middle of the last century – the time of dystopias, every thoughtful science fiction writer considered it to be his obligation to write one.
Return from the Stars is a mutiny against the total conformity and insipid living in the entirely uniform society.
“Beneath a dome supported by cracked, crumbling columns stood a woman, as though she had been waiting for me.
This was not possible.
Among the unseen trees her voice was weak, childlike almost, I could not make out the words, perhaps there were no words.”Even in the kingdom of the uniformly blind there should be the one bold enough to dare…
it was really nice to revisit one of my early sci-fi inspirations after some two decades. as expected, the perception was a lot more different and subtle on various levels. sometimes i wish i could do this more often with books i'd enjoyed or not quite. each time this might promise another meeting with Heraclitus giving me a different bouquet of tiny discoveries. and maybe a fellow-feeling hug.
Нещастнико, ти ще имаш това, за което си мечтал...
chciałabym przeprosić siebie z przeszłości za te straszne uprzedzenia do Lema spowodowane lekturą "Bajek robotów" w podstawówce. przeczytałam w jeden dzień (a raczej dzień i noc), bo trudno się oderwać od tej książki. jest doskonale napisana, przybijająca atmosferą wyobcowania i samotności, prowokująca do myślenia o człowieczeństwie i sensie wychylania się poza strefę bezpieczeństwa i wygody. i jeśli to podobno całkiem przeciętna powieść Lema, jedna z wielu, to już nie mogę doczekać się całej reszty.
In the hands of the right director, “Return from the Stars” would make an excellent film – more in the tradition of thoughtful, art-house sci-fi like “Gattaca” than as a blockbuster Hollywood movie (although someone like George Clooney would be ideal for the part of Hal – he should have filmed this novel instead of remaking “Solaris”).
Excellent!
If you are looking for thoughtful, poetic science fiction, this is it!
If you are looking for an accurate prediction, well, Lem basically anticipates the disappearance of books and their replacement by something like the iPad.In a nutshell, this is the story of an astronaut who returns to earth after a ten year voyage.
Because of time dilation, 127 years have passed on earth.
The story depicts the astronaut's disorientation and (partial?) reintegration into a wholly changed world.
It's both psychologically and technically convincing.
Lem's descriptions are detailed and colorful.
Kapitalna książka, w której bohater wraca na ziemię po latach podróży międzyplanetarnej. Na Ziemi upłynęło wiele wody w rzekach, zmieniło się wszystko, ludzie, miasta, zasady społeczne. Bohater ze swojego punktu widzenia ma ciekawe spostrzeżenia, trochę filozofuje, rozważa na tematy socjologiczne. Już w poprzednich recenzjach pisałam, że Lem to mistrz słowa - do tej pory poznałam go, jako kreatywnego twórcę nowych słówek, gier słownych, a w tej książce odkrył swoją inną zaletę. Opisy w książce są niezwykle poetyckie, barwne, plastyczne. Jedyne, co mi się nie podobało - to wątek romansu. Ale to chyba trudne wątki w ogóle.
No es extraño que un adolescente se enamore de este libro en concreto y de Lem para toda la vida.
El astronauta Bregg vuelve de una misión con desfase temporal a un mundo futuro que ya no le reconoce y en el que él se siente un bicho raro.
Releída unos 30 años después, el hombre sigue viendo un dinosaurio que no sabe moverse dentro de un mundo castrado por fuera.
Este Lem refleja como pocos la soledad interior.
En este caso, el extraterrestre que no se entera es el astronauta que vuelve a casa.
A sad, melancholic tale in Lem's best vein that has haunted me since teenage years, about the impossibility of heroics and bravery in a meek world made safe for convenience. A swansong that hails the probable outcome for the next centuries of our times obsessed with peace and safety.
One of my favorite themes, by a master. The future, the universe is always more than your were ready to imagine, and utopia sucks.
Domů na odcizenou planetu, která opustila důvody, proč vlastně původně odletěl.
Výborně je také popsané postupné odkrývání pravdy o beatrizaci a uvědomování si, jak se tato promítá do fungování aktuálního světa.Slabší částí jsou postavy.
Kde se to v něm bere?Ostatní mužské postavy - většinou Halovi kolegové - jsou pouhými nosiči dialogů, žádná psychologie.
No a ženské postavy jsou takové "beatrizované puťky" a v podstatě jen hodně zastřené sexuální objekty.A pak průšvih: romantická linka.
Zcela postrádající emoce, navíc s opravdu otřesnými dialogy, kdy postavy nedoříkávají věty a furt všechno chápou, aniž by něco pochopily.
Slabota.Na závěr zmíním věc, která je opravdu divná.
Un hombre que vuelve de una misión devastadora para sí mismo e inútil para la humanidad y que, para colmo, retorna a una Tierra en la que han cambiado las reglas del juego: una utopía ataráxica, hipertecnológica e incomprensible para él, en la que no encajará fácilmente.Resulta muy creíble el fluir mental que el autor a ficcionalizado para este personaje.
La terminología que se inventa para hablar de los cuerpos celestes no es real, pero es muy sugerente y evocadora.
una de ellas dice "el hombre siempre vuelve con las manos vacías".
Ya había leído este libro hace años, y recordaba que me había gustado mucho, hace poco volví a conseguirlo y realmente no entiendo qué fue lo que me pareció tan genial la primera vez.Hal Bregg regresa de una misión espacial que duró 10 años, pero mientras tanto en la Tierra transcurrieron más de 100 años desde su partida.
Hal encuentra una sociedad extremadamente diferente a la que dejó atrás, y la novela narra sus dificultades para adaptarse a ella.La idea de la historia me parece muy interesante, pero da demasiadas vueltas para llegar a lo que intenta contar.
Hacia el final se pone más interesante, pero igualmente sigue dando vueltas inútiles.
I can only say that I read this book with a growing sense of loss - like visiting the home of your childhood and finding a glistening shopping mall in its place filled with detached youths that you will never relate to.
Our hero, a space traveller and Einsteinian time traveller (by virtue of acceleration) is a gorilla among the latest generation of humans on earth.
Machines run the world, leaving humanity to be superficial little gadabouts.
This may be reminiscent of Logan's Run, but these humans are barely recognisable in their character - which added to my sense of loss.
Многоплановая книга, к которой можно подходить с самых разных сторон.
Есть много векторов восприятия, которые можно было бы выделить, разных ракурсов, разных эпизодов.
Можно поразмышлять о прогрессе, об эволюции общества, об отчуждении, о превращении в чуждость, об эпизоде с агонией кибернетических организмов, о странно страстных и при этом неосознанных отношениях с героя с женщиной, о не менее странном — по нынешним меркам — вырисовывании образа женщины со стороны Лема, о белитризации, о стремлении к поиску, риску и путешествию, о травматическом стрессе галактических астронавтов… Понравилось, как происходящее на планете с героем становится фоном, из которого вырисовывается фигура его воспоминаний.
Another seriously thought provoking book from Lem, that deals with violence, wars, and alienation. The alienation in this case is because by the time the cosmonauts return to Earth all of the people they knew have died, and technology has advanced so much that transportation, cities, and of course the culture is unrecognizable.This is an excellent book for anyone who ponders where we may be going in the next hundred years.
I thought the story was funny, sad, thought provoking, and enlightening. It's really an interesting idea. A man goes on a 10 year space expedition, it’s just that back on earth it lasts 127 years for everyone else. He returns not as a man from the future but a man from the past: a neanderthal. His knowledge of all things is no longer relevant to society. Stanislaw Lem combines a scientific perspective with a sense of humor akin to Kurt Vonnegut.
Lemův styl je takový, že si vždycky říkám, že na podruhé si tu knihu užiju ještě víc (což třeba u Kyberiády už není skoro možný, ale i tak), protože mám pocit, že mi spoustu věcí uteklo. Návrat z hvězd se mi líbil, ačkoli kdybych si oblíbila hlavního hrdinu, tak z toho mám rozhodně větší zážitek. Ale být tupý a hovado ho neomlouvá v žádné době. 3,5*
— Най-добре ни е сред такива древни старчета. С еей такива дълги бради. Само като си помисля за това и чак ме втриса. Знаеш ли какво? Да си купим кафез с кокошки, от време на време ще им извиваме вратовете.
Astronaut returns to earth, in the future & explores the world of crystal books and mankind wishing the youth(to be young) where robotics help people in daily life and through exertions called "Betryzacja" people cannot "kill".
I read this last year and didn't even remember I gave it 3 stars. It's a complicated book, but one that has kept me thinking, especially during this election cycle. I'm writing this review so some friend feels compelled to read the book and so we can talk about :)
