https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/328986.Waterloo
(It should be noted that this regiment is fictional with a home base in South Essex instead of South Lancashire for the historical regiment).The British Recoats fighting at the gate to the strategic farmhouse redoubt at the beginning of the Waterloo battle.Map of action showing the French in blue dividing the Anglo-Dutch (red) and Prussians (black), defeating the latter at Ligny and the former at the crossroads of Quatre Bras, then facing Wellington near Waterloo, 10 miles south of Brussels.As usual, Cornwell walks the line between showing the brutal and tragic realities of war and the uncaring, blind ambitions of most commanding officers while at the same time revealing the heroism and resourcefulness of many common soldiers and lesser officers.

Firstly, my prejudices - I've been a huge fan of the TV versions of the Sharpe books; I've been an even bigger fan of the Napoleonic Wars, and Waterloo in particular - I've probably read more on and around the subject than is healthy for anyone.Although I've never actually read a Bernard Cornwell novel before, I was really looking forward, therefore, to reading his account of Richard Sharpe's contribution to the Battle of Waterloo.All the ingredients for a literary disaster therefore - I had set my sights so high, disappointment was the only possible outcome.But for once in my life, reality exceeded a very high expectation.Cornwell manages to hit the bullseye on all fronts here.
Waterloo: The True Story of Four Days, Three Armies and Three Battles This is the actual book that I read and reviewed here.
Again, I think his skill in writing fiction that allows him to build suspense of this battle, even though you know the outcome.He starts his story as Napoleon has returned from exile and sees most of the French army join him.
It is a book that I will heartily recommend to anyone who wants to understand how the battle of Waterloo was fought and what it meant.
[return][return]This, the culmination of the series to which all previous installments have pointed, is without question Cornwell s best book.
Cornwell does a brilliant job of depicting the speed of Napoleon s invasion and the way he caught the Allies completely flat-footed.[return][return]Sharpe is not with Wellington s army but instead is attached, as a Lieutenant Colonel, to the staff of the leader of the forces of the Netherlands, the young Prince of Orange.
Some of my favourite Sharpe moments are in this book, and some quality comedy from when Sharpe is busy elsewhere. I don't know how accurate the battle descriptions are, but they are vivid. I do believe that this book will work as a standalone novel, there's enough background to catch you up, but when the back story is waiting to be read, why skip it? It doesn't matter how many times I reread these, it doesn't matter that I remember all of the twists, o the little surprises, it's still an excellent read.
Ačkoliv je to popis nebo spíš analýza bitvy, toho, co jí předcházelo a jejích následků, bez osobního příběhu, je to napsáno hodně čtivě. Fakta doplněná vzpomínkami vojáků ze všech tří armád jsou jasně vyprávěna. Snad jen toho polopatického opakování hlavních faktů by mohlo být méně (pravděpodobně pro pomalejší čtenáře za velikou louží).
Cornwell admits in his foreword that he tried to combine the story of the battle with a plot before giving up on the latter, which was the right decision: Waterloo is the story in itself.
This is the most ferocious, bloody and terrible battle of Sharpe's entire campaign.SHARPE'S WATERLOO is one of the longer Sharpe stories, clocking in at over 400 pages, but it feels like one of the shortest because the pages fly as you read.
I knew very little about Waterloo itself before I started this, and I'm left feeling like, perhaps not an expert, but somebody who knows a great deal more.
All right, I'll confess it - I'm a Richard Sharpe addict.
I have just started the last of the 21 novels (read in historically chronological order, not the order written) and I will miss his adventures once I'm done.
One of the factors in my appreciation of the series is the image of Sean Bean's Sharpe portrayal from the movies (very appealing!), but the other is the breathtaking depiction of battle in all its glorious valor, unbelievable horror and intimate detail amid a historical setting.
The Richard Sharpe series is a magnificent work of historical fiction. Bernard Cornwell has written an amazing series following Sharpe from a private in India to a Lt. Colonel at Waterloo and then a civilian farmer.
I can't believe I'm giving a Sharpe novel one star. Perhaps if Sharpe had put in more than a token appearance I might feel differently. This was an excellent, day by day, breakdown of Waterloo but Cornwell should have just made it into a history text. I was glad to see Rossendale die, but this was grisly even by my standards. Perhaps Sharpe's Devil will take the bad taste out of my mouth.
Of all the Sharpe Novels, i think this is my favourite. The story focuses entirely on the battle of Waterloo. There is limited character development and Sharpe is featured more as a viewer than a participant, but the sheer detail is incredible. It is very close to its tv adaptation.
An awful long buildup to a rather rapid denouement is the largest mark-able flaw, but in the grand scheme it is a minor quibble. More battle scenes than in any previous volume, which is only appropriate for such a looming historical event, and possibly more time spent away from the many character than ever before, which again, given the scope of the backdrop is fitting, since no one man could hope to stand out against the grandeur and ghastliness of a 19th century battlefield.
The author goes to great lengths to justify Sharpe's presence in the lead-up engagement and then in the main battle at Waterloo and not all of these feel very natural and Sharpe really doesn't have much to do in most of those battles and serves mostly as an observer.This is the greatest failing of the novel.
Sharpe really doesn't have anything to do but observe the battles and use a small sliver of his time to miss his farm and its apple trees and only a little bit of more time wanting his money back from his wife who's stolen it and lives with another man now.Other characters are as badly employed.
Waterloo is a such a massive historical event ending a series of events the author is so obviously interested in that I think he couldn't resist making the novel more about Waterloo than about our heroes and their time in it.A good example is the ubiquitous battle scene present in all of the novels.
We get a sense of the overall battle from that local perspective, and usually the fictional heroes get an important role in the battle that provides interesting perspectives on key events.Waterloo is too well analyzed, understood, known and interesting to the author to allow that.
My first attempt at trying to learn about the battle of Waterloo, was with Cornwell's non-fiction version Waterloo I found this difficult to concentrate on with no story line and endless troop movements, so I got a copy of Cornwell's HF version, Waterloo (Richard Sharpe (chronological order) #20) I found that it gave me a good deal of basic knowledge of the actual battle, and that this was the final battle of the Napoleonic wars.
This was easier reading, although the main character seemed to have little to do on the day of battle except as observation at various points of intensity.
I am a big fan of Bernard Cornwell.
I've read several of the Sharpe books (totally out of order) and enjoy his gutter-born, dirty-fighting British soldier and survivor extraordinaire.
I have read better Sharpe books than this one, although I certainly did enjoy this book.
There is such a wealth of literature that Cornwell ends up describing the battle at a bit of a detriment to the Sharpe plot, which is hardly a plot at all.
Cornwell does not shirk driving home the horror of war, and although he admires good soldiery, he also realizes the carnage that war leaves behind.
For most of the book, Sharpe was an observer, moving from one part of the battlefield to another.
Finally in the end he took a leadership role that led to the retreat of the French and the ultimate victory.
Because so much has been written about this battle, I would guess that Cornwell did not want to get in the way of history and thus made Sharpe's role secondary to the account of the flow of events.
The book was typical of Cornwell's vivid style in describing the sights, sounds, smells, tastes and touches of war.
He is a master of making a battle come alive.

Absolutely a must read for any military history enthusiast. Cornwell starts out explaining events that led to Waterloo, specifically the twin battles of Quatre Bras and Ligney, where he shows how close Napoleon actually came to victory over the Prussians and British/Dutch armies. His detailed play by play look at the battle of Waterloo itself is very informative and draws many lessons learned for military leaders today. I think I may have found a new favorite author, I can't wait to read some more of Bernard Cornwell's work.
I felt I ought to read something about Waterloo in the week leading up to the 200th Anniversary of the battle, so I've put a couple of books into the reading rotation. This one is to remind me of the basics (a history book cunningly disguised as fiction!), while The Longest Afternoon is an actual history of part of the conflict.
Fascinating and excellent. Cornwell combines all his skills as an author to emotionally engage the reader, while using all his skill as a historian - normally used to research the background of his novels - resulting in a stunning account of Waterloo. And avoiding the dry tone that plagues some histories.
His hero is the hero of a long series of Sharpe novels called “the Rifleman series.” Richard Sharpe has followed the British armies from Spain north to Waterloo and this, the eleventh, is ostensibly his last entry, though he hints that there may be more.
Sharpe and his confrere, Harper, find themselves in Belgium at Waterloo as the battle threatens.
Napoleon has entered Belgium at Charleroi, headed north, and Sharpe is the first to recognize what that means: the invasion is underway.
Cornwell’s depiction of the horrors of battle are unrivaled and keep you reading at as frantic a pace as he started.
Sharpe has also settled down with a French widow, while Harper is out of the army all together and married as well.On the positive side, Waterloo features one of the most historically accurate battles in the entire series, as Waterloo has had more written about it than any other event from the previous 19 books.
The battle was well written, but it was also about half of the book and lacked a lot of the character moments one expects in a Sharpe book.
It focuses a lot on the battle itself and not just Sharpe's personal contributions to it and that's fine because this is a fascinating battle on Cornwell really brings it to life.
While this isn't the last book of the series it definitely is its climax, the battle that everything is building up to where both Sharpe and Wellington will square off against Napoleon himself for the first and last time.
While Sharpe's personal history may be a bit confusing though the do explain, Cornwell does for Waterloo what the Killer Angels did for Gettysburg, bringing facts and figures to life and making them flesh and blood.
:)But Cornwell certainly ended the series with a great big bloody bang with this book.
His battlefield descriptions were about as graphic as I have ever read.
The William of Orange that Cornwell is writing about in this book was born in 1792 and was subsequently King of the Netherlands.
He may or may not have been the jerk Cornwell protrays him as but after the hatchet job he did on Alfred the Great in his Saxon series I don't entirely trust him.
What I do trust is his accuracy as far as events are concerned and anyway this is fiction so Cornwell can write whatever he pleases.
Sembra che l'autore sia stato esso stesso protagonista e testimone diretto dello scontro.
Con ampie citazioni di memorie dei diversi protagonisti, il libro è un'interessantissima cronaca di ciò che accadde in quel lontano (ma sarà davvero così?) giugno del 1815 nelle campagne belghe.
Oltre a evidenziare come una battaglia si possa vincere (o perdere) anche per un solo momento di indecisione o per un messaggio criptico, il libro fa anche capire quanto sia crudele una guerra (morti e feriti rivivono nelle testimonianze dei protagonisti di quel giorno).
Perché la guerra non la fanno soltanto i generali o gli imperatori, ma soprattutto la "povera" truppa, carne da cannone.
Best of this series---a day by day, blow by blow, detailed description of the historic battle with Sharpe and Harper at the center, that gives it coherence and a character driven context.June 1815: The Duke of Wellington, the Prince of Orange, and Napoleon will meet on the battlefield...and decide the fate of EuropeWith the emperor Napoleon at its head, and enormous French army is marching toward Brussels.
The British and their allies are also converging on Brussels - in preparation for a grand society ball.
But Sharpe's warning cannot stop the tide of battle, and the British suffer heavy losses on the road to Waterloo.
Historical novel that covers the end of the Napoleonic wars.
I've not read any other books in the series and it seems this one is #20 & the end but it worked fine as a standalone.
Colonel Sharpe is career British army, starting as a private with the Duke of Wellington as his battalion commanding officier and now, 20 years later, still following the Duke as a colonel, he is part of the "against the odds" final defeat of Napoleon.
author does a good job of conveying it.
Sharpe and his Irish sergeant are good characters and the narrator gives everyone very distinct voices.
I really enjoyed the fact that this book focused solely on the battle and the lead up to it however I did miss Sharpe's back story which we've enjoyed in all the other books.
I love that Sharpe and Harper's relationship was just as it had always been.
I also appreciated that Cornwall used the actual events in the battle but put Sharpe at the forefront.
It was such a gripping story that I loved so much and I'm so glad that I've finally read it instead of watching the TV episode a million times!
