https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/568099.Waylander
This good deed, first in a very long time in his career, has a domino effect and suddenly Waylander finds himself in the middle of the Drenai war of survival against Ventrian invaders.
For such a short book, there is an incredible amount of action and it is nice to get to know the heroes we have only heard about before (like Karnak) or learn about the origins of things like The Thirty.
Quest for Lost Heroes ★★★★☆5.
In the Realm of the Wolf ★★★☆☆6.
The Legend of Deathwalker ★★★★☆8.
Hero in the Shadows ★★★★★10.
White Wolf RTC11.
It is David Gemmell, so expect some familiar ground, such as ambiguous characters and gratuitous violence.
It’s pulpy and atmospheric, two traits I often find endearing in (dark) fantasy fiction.
The novel is really dark and brooding, just like the titular character, and there are some uncompromisingly grim scenes.
Like Legend, it’s a study of what it is that makes a man a “hero” (or an anti-hero, for that matter).
The locations of the book were really great, ranging from besieged fortresses to windy steppes, giving the story an epic, sprawling feel, despite the fact that it isn’t a very long novel.
And Waylander is a fantastic story which is compact (less than 400 pages) but nevertheless brimming with emotion.Mini synopsisWaylander (lone-wolf, assassin and general kick-ass) saves a priest almost by accident which sets of a chain of world changing events.
For anyone new to Gemmell I’d very much recommend reading Legend first as it’s one of the best (if not THE best) fantasy books ever.
He is a man who all have come to fear but a surprising, and mistaken, act of kindness changes the world forever (which is felt through future books in the series).
The main character of the book is an infamous assassin who managed to piss off almost everybody and is hunted by seemingly almost every single person in the world.
A very insignificant event (he helped a tortured monk while recovering his stolen horse) set events in motion which gave him a chance to redeem himself by recovering a great relic for battered Drednai army.
The character of Waylander himself is interesting, but I really wish the book would start earlier when he was still an assassin for hire - we only see his evil deeds in his flashbacks.
The main characters were rather complex & many weren't particularly nice, even if they were supposed to be good guys.
It's not surprising that the main character was an antihero, but there is another heroic figure, a Drenai general, that is even better in many ways.
The main characters aren't of Kane's stature, but that makes it better in some ways - more realistic (for lack of a better term) & gripping.
I KNOW that Kane is going get through whatever horrible situation he's in, but that's not true of Gemmell's characters.
Shame on me!Vec vise od deset godina citam epsku fantastiku i ovo je prvi put da citam Gemela.Skitalac mi se jako svideo zbog nekoliko stvari. Pre svega jer je knjiga kratka (zaboravila sam da knjige epske fantastike zapravo mogu da stanu u moju torbu). Radnja je predvidiva ali je na momente i jako uzbudljiva.ASAP se vracam herojskoj fantastici.Abercrombie here I come! :)
What I also loved was the fact that this book was about how the organization of the (view spoiler)[Thirty, which were a fraternity of warrior-monks, (hide spoiler)] have been founded and for me, it was the greatest part of the story.This book also features 3 particular main characters as a focus:An antihero assassin, a priest who wanted to stop the killing of his brothers thus going against everything they believed in (that all life is precious), and a Drenai general.
Once upon a time, the old man was called Orien, and the only thing that can help save Drenai, raise the moral of the soldiers, is his legendary "magic" armor of Bronze which should be delivered to general Egel.
Waylander (f/k/a Dakeyras), an apparently heartless assassin, saves a peace-loving Source priest (Dardalion), who is being tortured by some ruffians.
Each seems to benefit from the influence of the other as Waylander saves a women and her young charges, rediscovering his humanity along the way whereas Dardalion decides to take up the battle.
Together, they help thwart the plans of Kaem to permanently rid the lands of the Drenai forever.
Waylander then embarks on a hopeless mission to retrieve a symbolic set of bronze armor to help rally the Drenai.
The book does not shy away from depicting the horrors of war and man at his worst (and best.)
Esiste la redenzione? Straziante permettere al mondo di spazzare via aspettative e sogni; ancora più triste, forse, diventare parte di quel mondo nella disperata speranza di non dimenticare il passato e inseguire una giustizia sempre più fittizia e vuota.Qui l'onore ed il perdono non possono trovare spazio; e gli ideali pronunciati tempo addietro hanno il sapore di cenere, un ricordo sempre più lontano dopo ogni quadrella scoccata.
Feverish pacing and imminent victory . Gemmell's never disappoints.  Waylander iniquitous journey to reclaiming his individuality brings a contemplative look at one's life with a humanistic touch . Respect and dislike are felt equally .
It’s safe to say that Gemmell was a major mover (hard to say if he was “The” mover) in the new paradigm within the Fantasy genre towards a level of realism and grit which has now become so popular over the past 15 years.
Waylander was pushed (as so many people) into darkness by the cruelty of the world, by profound love that is ripped away from us, leaving us wounded to the core.
As so often happens, these wounds get infected, and we stray into evil.
That humanness is what truly puts Gemmell on the map.
Redemption was always one of David Gemmell's most persistent themes, perhaps finding its most compelling expression in this tale of Dakeyras the Waylander, an apparently heartless assassin caught up in a brutal invasion of the Drenai homeland.
Gemmell's depiction of war eschews any comfortable fantasy conventions to present something every bit as ugly as real-world conflict, complete with massacre and rape.
However, it's the characterisation that really shines here; by being compelled to reconnect with humanity Dakeyras rediscovers his soul.
The character proved enough of a draw to spawn two sequels which are well worth reading, but don't quite reach the same heights.

RTC.
Dakeyras (cunoscut ca Waylander the Slayer) e unul dintre cei mai celebri asasini Drenai.
Waylander pornește în nord, pe teritoriul triburilor Nadir, pentru a aduce celebra armură de bronz a regelui Orien, artefact care ar putea schimba destinul războiului.
Preotul Dardalion, influențat de povestea asasinului și de întâlnirea cu acesta, va schimba profund bazele credințelor sale, decizie care va anula sentimenul de echilibru și de neimplicare în violență, punând bazele unui ordin de călugări luptători - Cei Treizeci.
Eroii buni mor, mor și cei răi, însă istoria curge mai departe pentru că fiecare stat are mulți vecini, și fiecare vecin vrea teritoriile din jurul său.
A histórias, como o proprio titulo e sinopse do livro dizem, é focada em Dakeyras "Waylander", um infame assassino Drenai que acabara de matar o Rei da nação Drenai.
A morte do rei permitiu que a nação fosse invadida pelo Império Vagriano, a Waylander então é dada a missão de procurar pela legendária Armadura de Bronze (outra das constantes da série, essa armadura é praticamente um simbolo da nação Drenai).Os personagens de David Gemmell são complexos, e Waylander não é excessão.
A primeira vista ele é um assassino sem moral alguma, entretanto ao longo do livro é mostrado que ele é de fato uma pessoa torturada pelo seu passado e em busca de redenção.
This is the first book introducing the dark and deadly assassin, Waylander.
Waylander wasn’t a hero, no.
His life took a dark turn and could have spiraled on like that.
Then he went and did a good deed which ended up haunting him and forced him to reassess his life.
His life is tragic yes, but the man he became, the assassin, Waylander the Slayer, was a force of nature.His sense of survival, his self-awareness of danger was incredible.
I loved his interactions with Danyal and the children.
Danyal suited him to a T.
I liked the others too, and was glad to be able to spend so much time with them.The plot was interesting, and for me had a good balance between a bit of politic, lots of action, quite some quests and adventures, a siege and being thrown into the army life quite a bit.I give only 4 stars because of A) the characters changing a bit too much way to fast for my personal liking, some solutions being just a bit TOO easy and parts of it being quite predictable.
I never quite connected with the Drenai Saga books, and this one least of all, so this is the end of the line for me...
Waylander is a dark man; a hunter and a killer.
War can be won by strength, bravery and the hearts of good men.
But only dark men can walk the shadows.
Waylander is the third novel that David Gemmell wrote in the Drenai series.
Set before his debut ‘Legend’, Waylander provides a legacy to Gemmell’s later works.
From the Priest Dardalion who battles with his will to do good, to the General and war-hero Karnak, each and every soul in this book is well fleshed.
Waylander is the anti-hero to Gemmell’s Druss the Legend.
Danyal, for example, multiple rape victim, get's talked to like absolute shit by Waylander, Waylander says "he would never go with a woman he wouldn't pay for", this is the basic extent of their conversation before she falls head over heels in love with him.
Rape tropes in fantasy are cliche, but when they're used as a plot device and gratuitously, it's cheap, and grating, not to mention disrespectful./rant.Despite all this I wouldn't say this was an *awful* book, and I can definitely see why people would be happy to get away from the stodgey descriptions and intimidating tomes that usually permeate the fantasy genre.
“My enemies can soar into the night like invisible demons, conjure wolf creatures from hell, and read minds.
It starts with the king having been assassinated, and ruthless enemy troops swarming into Drenai lands, massacring the natives.
Waylander walks these lands, a stone-hearted warrior, the assassin that killed the king.
He is a man pursued, by his own demons, and a vast range of enemies.
Far too many novels like this you find it hard to believe what you are reading, but never with Gemmell, who put his heart and soul into every page.
In the first of 3 novels about him Gemmell introduces a "hero" (anti-hero?) who is one of my personal favorites No spoilers here read this book and be ready for an amazing journey into a world of danger, heroism, and detail.
კითხულობ და ეგრევე ხვდები, თანამედროვე ფენტეზი პერსონაჟების აბსოლუტური უმრავლესობა საიდან მოდის. მარტო გადამთიელი მოიცავს ლოგენს, შავ დოუს და მეძებარს როგორც მინიმუმ.სიუჟეტი დიდი სასწაული არაფერი, მაგრამ არც პრეტენზიულია სასწაულობას რომ ითხოვდეს ისეთი. მარტივი, სწორხაზოვანი, მაგრამ საინტერესო ისტორიაამთელი მუღამი იმაშია, რომ აღმოჩნდა რო არ იტყუებოდნენ ლინჩი, აბერკრომბი, როტფუსი და ძმანი მისნი, რო იძახდნენ, გემელი რო არ ყოფილიყო ჩვენ ასეთ წიგნებს ვერ დავწერდითო. რო წაიკითხავთ მიხვდებით რო მართლა ეგრეა
Gemmell wasn’t telling me much about the characters – how they were feeling, what they’d been doing, why they were there – and I felt somewhat disconnected from them, particularly as we’re thrown into the action without being introduced to any of the characters involved.
Gemmell shows us how his characters act, providing limited or no information about their background; it’s up to the reader to witness their actions and decide for themselves how they feel about each character.
E lo fa con una naturalezza disarmante.Il personaggio principale semplicemente non c'è, perché alla fine il Waylander del titolo è solo una delle tante comparse nel grande gioco della vita e della morte imbastito da Gemmell.Quindi non fatevi ingannare dal titolo: questo è un romanzo corale, non di un solo uomo.
(mild spoiler)This book isn't without faults, one thing that struck me as lazy was how the main character is saved from an imminent death on two occasions by having earlier spared enemies he would have otherwise killed.
Once was good, but using the same formula a second time fairly soon after the first lessened the impact somewhat.
Though I should say that the second saviour soon became a favourite of mine.
In all honesty I devoured this book in 2 sittings with a tiny 3rd when I thought I had some time but life beckoned.
Waylander (The Drenai Saga #3), David Gemmell
Review to come, but basically just expect it to be a variation on the speech in High Fidelity where John Cusack is talking about how things with Laura were "just good."
'I caught a pebble in the moonlight.' Ahhhh, I had forgotten just how much I love Waylander. Such a great novel with great characters - I am so glad I decided to reread Waylander.
