https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/541920.An_Army_at_Dawn
My first introduction to the U.S. Army’s invasion of North Africa in World War II came from Samuel Fuller’s The Big Red One. The film, starring Lee Marvin and Mark Hamill, opens with the Torch landings, and combines elements of tragedy and farce predicated on the uncertainty over whether or not the French would fight on Hitler’s behalf.
Rick Atkinson’s An Army at Dawn tells the full story of the U.S. Army’s involvement in North Africa, from the landings in Morocco and Algeria to the final push into Tunisia.
"For among mortal powers, only imagination can bring back the dead." Rick Atkinson’s An Army at Dawn: The War in North Africa, 1942-1943 was my introduction to WWII African campaign. I found it masterful, thoroughly researched, and bestowed with a well-crafted and colorful narrative. It brings the war, with its scalding heat and contrasting cold nights of the desert turned bitter with icy winds; and gifts the readers with tales about the protagonists, depositing them right on the battlefields.
Throughout, the commanders competed with and criticized each other, led many times by politics and not common sense or military strategy, generating unimaginable tragedies and casualties that could probably have been avoided.The Americans were unprepared…The main impression I came away with was just how poorly prepared the U.S. military was for the war they faced.
In many ways, North Africa was a training ground for bigger battles to come in Italy and Normandy, and it's a very good thing the Allied troops started in Africa, rather than launching straight into an invasion of France, as many American commanders were advocating.
Long-winded, but incredibly well-written and exhaustive, An Army at Dawn by Rick Atkinson was definitely a choice pick for the Pulitzer for History 2003.
The book is simply brilliant is demonstrating that friction between British and America commands nearly imploded the effort in Africa and how close the battle for Tunisia really was.
The detailed battle maps were also incredibly useful.
Atkinson 's book is a critical read for those wanting to understand this little known campaign and see that the Hollywood version of our GIs is simply lies and damned lies.
If I didn't know the end of this story, I would swear the Allies are about to lose World War II.
Tension among the British and American officers ran high and the troops harbored stereotypes that made it hard to communicate well.
The British infuriated Americans by charging them with timidity on the battlefield, suggesting that units be evacuated to the rear and retrained "under British guidance." Worst of all were intelligence failures that disastrously influenced military strategy.So how ever do the Allies win?
Ultra allowed Allies to decode Axis communications, giving them advance notice of troop, materiel, and supply movements.
Germans had brilliant strategists in Rommel and Kesselring but lacked replacement troops, infrastructure, and materiel.
Combining storytelling with historical facts, this book really stands out and truly is worth its Pullitzer in every senseAn Army at Dawn is the first book in a trilogy, where Rick Atkinson covers the liberation of Europe during World War II.
But after the first defeat, the Americans grew though and laid the groundwork for their victories in the coming years.It is not only a story of soldiers, but also commanders.
He sacks the incompetent Fredendall, who gets a scathing review by Atkinson, and many other American commanders until Patton saves the day.The book is an incredible combination between storytelling and historical facts, which makes it stand out from all other books.
I also accessed the index many times to refresh my memory on names and places that were referred to earlier in the book.The maps helped me understand the details of the various battles but there were times I wished I had a huge map of the area being discussed so I could better follow the narrative of what Atkinson was describing.For someone like myself, who was raised with the myths of WWII, this book was an eye-opener.
I would like to just say, though, for anyone interested in understanding the 1942 North African Invasion, this book is a must read.I am looking forward to attacking Volumn Two, covering the Sicilian and Italian campaigns.
Atkinson's An Army at Dawn covers the 1942-1943 war in North Africa, from the initial Allied invasions to the drawn-out siege of Tunisia.
In many ways, North Africa was a training ground for bigger battles to come in Italy and Normandy, and it's a very good thing the Allied troops started in Africa, rather than launching straight into an invasion of France, as many American commanders were advocating.
This is a long, detailed book covering lots of ground (both literally and figuratively) but it's first-rate writing about an important campaign that forged the Allies into an effective fighting force.
Amazing writing from start to finish.Here are some samples:The French surrender Algiers and the combined American/British task force flagship comes to dock in the harbor:(view spoiler)[At dawn on Monday, the task force flagship, H.M.S. Bulolo, steamed with imperial dignity toward the Railway Jetty, unaware that an earlier near-miss from a Luftwaffe bomb had damaged her engine room telegraphs.
(hide spoiler)]I could rave on about the book but here are just some of the areas that I found most interesting:The French fight the Americans and the British during the Torch landings with some vigor.
The relationship between Winston Churchill and Franklin Roosevelt does not break any new ground but Atkinson summarizes their relationship nicely developing the most salient points relating to political and military decision making.The most interesting part of the book involves American GIs. From the outset Atkinson’s goal is to present the war from the perspective of those who groveled, crawled, marched, and died in the North African campaign.
He argues correctly that the key to the allied victory in North Africa and the war in general was that the United States was the “arsenal of democracy.” As the British kept pointing out it was American industry and its capacity to produce that made up for any military errors the allies may have made.
The better learned from their mistakes; the best also realized the human cost of their folly.Atkinson’s breakdown of the problems of command is a salutary antidote against the armchair generals who look back at Kasserine Pass and other battles and say, “Well, if only they had done this,” or ask, “Why didn’t he throw X brigade into the line at this point?” It’s surprising how little information planners had on hand, who yet confidently drew up ambitious battle plans.
This is one of the trilogy of books by Rick Atkinson about WWII and it is a real winner.
Men were not prepared for the horrors of warfare and the British who had been in Africa for a while were totally disgusted with the American troops.
The political situation among the Allies often was at the breaking point with the goal being who got the glory rather than fighting the enemy as a combined force, utilizing the strengths of both the British and the Americans.
Africa was the training ground, especially for Americans for the battle to come on the continent of Europe.
I highly recommend this book for the WWII history buff.
A detailed account of the campaign in Northern Africa, from the Allied landings in November 1942 until the capture of Tunis. Atkinson’s books are dense, packed with facts, and always take me a while to get through (not because of any flaw with the writing, there’s just so much to absorb). Full of interesting stories and tidbits, plus an overall informative big-picture look. The conclusion: the campaign in N. Africa wasn’t elegant, but the Allies got the job done.
After realizing that Frenchman and Arab alike were mesmerized by the power of official stamps, the engineers fabricated their own rubber imprimatur and “just stamped the hell out of everything.”The narrative is full of other voices, not just the command officers but the ordinary soldier with background stories and quotes from letters home, as well as the dispatches of the war correspondents.
Atkinson demonstrates how Eisenhower grew into the role history has frozen him into but it wasn't easy:In truth, [Eisenhower] spent at least three-quarters of his time worrying about political issues, and that preoccupation poorly served the Allied cause.

There is the political scheming among the Vichy French, the clash of egos in the Allied command, the less than effective weaponry that the United States Army employed at this stage of the war, the superior German tactics and weapons, and the friction between the British and the Americans.
It's a good book.However it isn't a hardcore military history treatise.
One might not agree with all of Atkinson's opinions and the book could have used a few more maps, but it's a well written,engrossing, in-depth look at the U.S. Army/Allies at the beginning.
The first volume Atkinson's "Liberation Trilogy", about the african and european front, from 1942 to 1945.
The first volume is centered on the 1942-43 war in North Africa.
The author describes in very eloquently form and like a detailed and magisterial account of the battles themselves.
Given the complexity and size of the battle, the battle in North Africa showed the deficiencies of logistics early in the war.
Atkinon presents the complexity of events with enviable skill and point of view of the principal generals with insightful.
You can feel the battle details to personal of the african front.
He sifted through official documents, news reels military records, personal letters to home, letters from home and journal entries of the soldiers involved.
There's Patton's belief that any soldier that ducks from strafing enemy aircraft lacks moral character.
Or the American tanks that raced against each other to be the first American soldiers to fire at the Germans.
Atkinson doesn't just tell us what happened, he tells us what everyone was thinking while they were doing it, and it makes for a great read.
A gritty description of how the American army became a fighting force in the hills of Tunisia. Well written and full of excellent descriptions of the front. I found his research on this political and military aspects extremely interesting. I would have liked more additions on how the Germans played in this campaign. The author did an excellent job and I recommend this one to all WWII readers.
While the book is obviously tailored for American eyes, I don’t want to hold it against it.I’ve you’ve read my previous reviews of history books, especially ones about conflict, you know I have an affinity for maps.
All this adds up to one of the best structured history books I’ve read in a long time, so easy to keep up with that even a child could with little confusion.One of the greatest elements of Atkinson’s writing is his character focus.
General Eisenhower is the key figure central to the entire book and the reader is put in his shoes for a good amount of the narrative, more than any other character.
I have to admit, I've always been a bit intimidated by military history. No more. It's always great when you can find that writer who can ease you past those jargon-barriers that can impede your enjoyment of a particular kind of book. I'm always game for a chance to enlarge my literary comfort zone. Anyway, my appetite is now whetted for more WWII, and I'm diving right into Atkinson's second book in the Liberation Trilogy,  .Some things I learned from this book:1. We fought the French in WWII. F
It's always great when you can find that writer who can ease you past those jargon-barriers that can impede your enjoyment of a particular kind of book.
Anyway, my appetite is now whetted for more WWII, and I'm diving right into Atkinson's second book in the Liberation Trilogy, 
North Africa, as it turned out, was a good place to embark on our learning curve.
Patton, although the media presented him well at the time, didn't really do too much in North Africa.
A great general and a decent man, who came along at the wrong time and place in history.20.
I can't speak to the accuracy of his judgments (bearing in mind that many times, what one thinks of something as chaotic as a battle depends on where one was, or whose report one hears); he paints a grim picture of the costs of war, which suits the contemporary view of such things, while examining the psychology of war, and of the various leaders.Most of all, though, I admired the facility of his voice.
Reminding me of the great novelists, the narrative soars high to observe the scene from the god's-eye view (with Olympian detachment), then dives down into the trenches to recount specific incidents, and the soldiers' reactions.

Excellent read. Atkinson brings the war in North Africa up close and personal in this book.
26th book read in 2017.Number 507 out of 591 on my all time book list.
It took me over a year, but I finally made it through! I learned a lot and enjoyed reading, and eventually I'd like to finish the rest of the Liberation Trilogy.
I believe a physical version - not the Kindle one like mine - would allow a better apprehension on what's going on since the troop movements are described exhaustively.Another thing I enjoy from this book is the fact that the author does not shy away from criticizing the generals and the commanders.
Even Monty, it was not always El Alamein for him.More than three weeks is a long time to read a book for my usual rate, but I guess reading nonfiction, especially super-detailed military history like this, need more cerebral energy and I did not regret every moment of it.
And so goes the army at dawn as the Supreme Commander balances politics and war and often comes up short in both fields, battle commanders sacrifice troops in the name of ego, mid-level commanders do or die, support troops build desert cities powered by typewriters, and the troops learn to hate and kill.The war in North Africa was mostly a mess, but a victory came out of the mess, and it was a mess of on-the-job training for everyone but the Germans (we won't even discuss the Italians.) But the mess doesn't matter, what matters is who wins.
A stark, remarkably detailed picture of the North African campaign, with an intense and unrelenting focus on the very human men who managed (and mismanaged) the war and who fought and died in its battles. Egos, intelligence, fears, desires--all here, all sharply drawn. Atkinson possesses an extraordinary ability to pull a dramatically compelling story out of a morass of competing detail.
Minus half a star for being a third again as long as it should have been.I especially appreciated the well-rounded portrayal of major actors such as Eisenhower, Patton, and Rommel, as well as the experiences of the enlisted men.
For me, a pervasively demoralizing aspect of past and current wars is how many people die in stupid ways: car accidents, concussions, friendly fire, infection.
Any recommendations?I plan on reading the rest of this trilogy, so I'll be interested to see if Atkinson's editors ended up reining him in or succumbing to his success.
This is a fantastic book.
I truly enjoy WWII history, possibly because of my Dad and my father-in-law being veterans.
Plus as a nurse I have had the privilege of caring for so many veterans from that war.
This is one of the very best books I have read.
I could feel the tension between the commanders.
Rick Atkinson has written a superb book.
He has researched well so he makes you feel as if you know each person in the book.
You feel all the emotions and it's hard to put the book down.
