https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/281402.A_Wreath_for_Rivera
We try to guess - without success - "whodunit"; and we are delighted when in the last chapter, the detective tells us how the trick was performed.Ngaio Marsh is one of queens of British crime fiction, up there with the likes of Agatha Christie, Dorothy Sayers and P.D.James.
I confess that, being a diehard Christie fan, I neglected most of the other mystery writers during my youth, and am just now discovering Ms. Marsh.A Wreath for Rivera is the classic British Crime story at its best.
The series, by Ngaio Marsh is right there with other classic mystery series; like those by Agatha Christie, Dorothy L.
I'm reading it out of sequence as I've followed them in order for the most part, but it doesn't take away any of the enjoyment by reading this one now.There are some details of Alleyn's private life with Agatha Troy that seem to have progressed but they don't play major parts in the story.
The murder investigation, lead by Alleyn and his resolute and steady team; his right-hand man, Detective Inspector Fox and the others, is a methodical process and enjoyable to follow.
Alleyn is the main character but Ngaio Marsh also provides a voice to Carlisle 'Lisle' Wayne, Lord Pastern's niece, who I liked very much.
A highly enjoyable, riveting mystery, right up there with Night at the Vulcan as one of my favourite Marsh novels.
The complex relationships between the characters are very cleverly revealed through the dialogue in a few scenes; the growth of the relationship between Carlisle and Edward is particularly interesting as it unfolds, almost accidentally.My only complaint is that unlike Night at the Vulcan, this story did not have as satisfying an ending as I thought it ought to.
Alleyn succeeds in his unmasking, but more closure regarding Edward and Carlisle, as well as a resolving of misunderstandings between them, Felicite and Lord and Lady Pastern would have been highly preferred.
All build-up, then -- fizzle.There's this crazy cast of (to me rather annoying and unlikable) characters: the family of rich eccentrics, lounge musicians, drug dealers, magazine columnists...
and then once we get the relationships and plot all worked out, it's over.
I felt bad for the one pleasant character, having to put up with selfish jerks, and gropey creeps and murder and then not even getting a denouement.
And I know Marsh stereotypes of Italians and "Latins" is par for the time, but it gets a tad irksome of you read more than one mystery with an Italian/Spanish/Latin American character in a row.
Lord and Lady Pastern would love for their daughter, Felicite, to marry Edward.
Or else Felicite wouldn't be writing the advice column of a local newspaper!Lord Pastern's BIG debut does not quite go according to plan.
Will Roderick Alleyn and his team be able to solve the crime?My thoughts: I definitely enjoyed this one!
(It is the third I've read in the series.
Was Edward in love with Carlisle?
Was Edward in love with Carlisle?
As for the solving of the crime, I had two suspects in mind.
I don't know that the clues definitely led to just one firm suspect.
Lord Pastern has gotten into jazz and playing the drums convincing Breezy Bellair to let him do a special piece with Bellair’s famous jazz band.
However, neither Lord Pastern nor Carlos Rivera, the villainous accordionist star of the band who has given an ultimatum to George’s step-daughter, Felicite, to announce their engagement, can agree on who will pretend to fall over dead.
At the time of the performance, Rivera unexpectedly falls over despite the group’s decision to do the other routine.
Inspector Alleyn and Fox encounter jazz, drugs and a gossip magazine clashing with a dysfunctional society family.
(hide spoiler)]And the less said about the band itself, the better.The only point of interest in this is the secondary romance, which is between two cousins from opposite sides of the family (they're not at all related).
And misunderstandings are had by all, complete with bonus cattiness by Felicity to Carlisle (Felicity is honestly seriously unlikeable as far as I can tell - her and her parents).Now, I would have been okay with the misunderstandings in the end, if the book hadn't essentially resolved itself by Alleyn confronting Crazy Peer with his manipulations as part of confirming who the murderer actually is, in Ned's presence, and then Ned essentially going, "OH.
She had the faultless diction and balanced phraseology of the foreigner who has perfect command but no love of the English language."Or a woman who walks into a ballroom where she had spent time dancing at balls during her teen years before the war; "Carlisle repeopled the hollow room and felt again the curious fresh gaiety of that night.
She felt the cord of her programme grow flossy under the nervous pressure of her gloved fingers.
She saw the names written there and read them again in the choked print of casualty lists."Or the phrase "patently bogus."An astute observer of human character, Ms. Marsh was.
The more I reread Marsh the clearer her fascination with the aristocracy stands out. She cleverly plays her series protagonist, Alleyn, as disliking the ways in which the aristocracy treat him differently because he is one of their own -- and yet we are constantly being reminded of those things about Alleyn that are clear class markers. As for the murderer itself -- Marsh sets out a scene in which various members of the aristocracy have a good reason to commit murder and then pawns off the actual murder on a member of a group the aristocracy despises.
An eccentric peer becomes a drummer with a swing band, and drags his family along for his solo debut in a piece he has composed.
The band puts up with him primarily for the publicity, because his antics have made him popular with the press.
Rivera is killed with a rather odd weapon at the end of the showpiece, and Inspector Alleyn and his wife just happen to be in the audience.
These all intertwine into the main mystery of Rivera's death.
The idiotic peer seems determined to turn suspicion on himself, and everyone seems to be hiding something they don't want to tell the police.
"I know it seems funny," he said at last.
Leaving evidence all over the place: making no attempt to clear himself: piling up a case against himself, you might say.
But then he is funny.
Who's to mark a crucial division in the stream of human behaviour running down from something we are pleased to call sanity into raving lunacy?
Where's the point at which a human being ceases to be a responsible being?
There have been cases of the sort, but is this going to be one of them?
I started reading them by order of publication date a few years ago after cleaning a few of them out of my mother's house.
I have completed the set via used book stores and send them off to my mother to re-read once I finish them.
Instead of chastising myself over my lack of variation in scoring or my lack of differentiation, I realize that I seek to read those books which I will probably enjoy and give myself the liberty to not have to broaden my scope.As to this book, I would probably have given it - and the series - something closer to a three, but I enjoyed it more than some of the other books that are set in New Zealand.
A bit confusing at the beginning with the introductory scenes setting up different character relationships.
None of the characters was very likable, even Carlisle, who could have been more forthcoming with Alleyn.
And Alleyn and Fox have their close relationship.
In fact, when the assistant police inspector offers up that this case may be similar to the one in the Purloined Letter, Alleyn says "Fox, my cabbage, my rare edition, my objet d'art, my own special bit of bijouterie, be damned if I don't think you've caught an idea." That made me laugh out loud but also shows how much Alleyn depends on his trusty sidekick (who is still practicing his French.)
Just for once, I'd like Dame Marsh to write a mystery without relying on the crutch of histrionic characters. Out of all the sets of histrionic and non-histrionic characters I like best, however, this cast is one of them. And I did quite like how the murderer was the obvious one, and the method misleadingly interesting.All in all, not a terrible effort, but not one of my favourites. I just kind of wanted to shake Felicity... and Lord Marchbanks.... and all the rest of them where their personalities are too big for their characters.
I'm a bit torn about this novel. The story itself was a little slow moving in parts, but entertaining enough to keep me reading. The characters! The majority of them are so annoying and cartoonish that it was impossible for me to become even the tiniest bit attached to them, which lessened my interest in what happened to them and the outcome slightly. The end felt a little rushed, but not terribly so. I would have liked to know what happened to certain characters after the main event, but that is -unfortunately- left to the imagination.
A member of a dance band is murdered during a performance. luckily chief Inspector Alleyn is in the audience so can get cracking investigating right away. a fairly entertaining mystery, though there are some rather overdone characters, and the identity of the murderer is a bit obvious - I had hoped it would turn out to be someone else. But there is some very entertaining dialogue between Alleyn and Fox, which makes up for deficiencies in the story.
What an insightful writer Ngaio Marsh was. I would have liked an Epilogue on the other characters, but Marsh has left that to us.
nothing like an old book on a cold day
A Trump-like character (but smarter) in egotistical, selfish, bullying, vain, whimsical, conniving Lord Pastern and Baggott. Good story, though I got bogged down a bit at the end.
pretty slow going - not my favorite
3.5/5
Closer to three stars than one, but the ending felt like a cop-out and was in my opinion a far from satisfactory resolution of the mystery.
The last chapter was excellent. Good written old mystery
The ending is rushed and a little too cutesy but the rest of it was very interesting. I'm still waiting, though, for the murderer to be someone you don't already despise.
Needless to say, in the event, the trick goes wrong and someone has replaced the blank cartridge with (bizarrely) the unscrewed tip of a parasol, and this kills Rivera.Such theatrical events gone wrong are the hackneyed currency of this type of novel; this one must be at least the third in which Marsh has used the trick and it would certainly not be the last.Alleyn, as usual, manages to sort out the mystery, which has complications involving Rivera's courtship of Lord Pastern's stepdaughter, the identity of an "agony uncle" who signs himself G.P.F.
Lord Pastern & Baggot is known for his eccentric, short-lived whims, and this time he's determined to play timpani in a popular local club band.
Unfortunately, his French stepdaughter has fallen head over heels for the slick Argentinian piano-accordionist--or at least she insists she has, though his jealousy frightens her.
Then there's the enigmatic newspaper advice columnist GPF, who seems somehow involved with Lord Pastern's family.
All comes to a head at Lord Pastern's premier performance.
It's up to Inspector Alleyn, who had the misfortune to attend the show, to sort out just who the murderer is.This is a fine mystery, and Marsh has a lot of humor and interesting characters.
Later complications include the disclosure that Carlos was drug-running, and his manager/conductor, Breezy Bellairs, was one of his clients; that a newspaper agony columnist to whom they have all been writing is actually Mr. Edward Manx, a family friend, and one involved in various romantic complications with the daughter (Felicité) and her cousin Carlisle.
The drug-dependent Bellairs, who has set up a complicated plot to incriminate the highly eccentric Lord Pastern, who has not helped matters by being extremely uncooperative when our old friends Alleyn and Fox try to sort things out.
Inspector Alleyn is an attractive character and as the books progress, it is very enjoyable to find out more about his background, family and wife.
They are interesting books on other levels as well for example the glimpse rhey give into the world of theatre, in fact Marsh's knowledge of acting makes her an acute observer on body language which means that the characters are finely drawn and really come to life.
It is also interesting reading murder mystery stories written when the death penalty was still in place.
This was another one where Alleyn wraps the mystery up at breakneck speed, which made it a very quick read.There are some definite class issues here, and the scene where Fox shows why he is so good at interviewing servants and Alleyn is not is interesting, but also sad somehow, since this story is taking place post-WWII and the class distinctions seem more 1920s.
On the other hand, Alleyn also talks about asking Fox to be godfather to Alleyn and Troy's future child, so he does seem to respect Fox, although he teases him a lot.
