https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/826845.The_Chrysalids
I hope to write more about this issue when I get around to reviewing  The Day of the Triffids.However, there can be no justification in calling The Chrysalids a cosy catastrophe or cosy anything.
The plea for tolerance is already evident early on in the book where the narrative focuses on a charming innocuous friendship between the outwardly normal David Strorm and a nice little girl called Sophie.
Once her “deviancy” is discovered the friendship has to come to an abrupt end and she has to go on the run with her family.The Chrysalids is a wonderful and highly readable little novel (around 200 pages).
The Bible and a book written after the Tribulation, the Repentances, clearly outline what the True Form should be, and that Mutants are an abomination to God and Man. Even at a young age when none of this is really understood, though, he instinctively keeps his ability to think-speak with several other children in the area, including his half-cousin Rosalind, a secret.
Another interesting (and damning) perspective comes from one of these other societies, called Zealand, one that has advanced and re-built and where think-speaking is treasured and encouraged - a utopia, in fact, for Davie and his friends: "...we can make a better world than the Old People.
It is certainly easy to classify John Wyndham's The Chrysalids as old school YA fiction, from before YA fiction needed a label, but it offers more than your average after school special between covers in that it treats the reader as an intelligent and reasonable person, and that while there is a touch of the 50s to the book, it was certainly way ahead of it's time.David Strorm is the only living son of a patriarch of an ultra-religious post-apocalyptic community.
Faced a level of mutation in the their farming stock, both plants and animals, the community has twisted the christian faith into a fundamentalist view that any variation is a sin against god and must be burnt.

I think the way Wyndham writes, with inspiration drawn from a cosy British living in the 50s, and the fears brought about from the wartime before, mixed with a great blend of SF elements, just really works for me as a reader, and I find I can really enjoy his stories.
This is the story of David, a young boy who has a troubled upbringing in a rural farming community.
This may be due to the fact that David has his own sort of Deviation, something the adults of his community can't see, and it's something he has to keep hidden.
Anyone with a birth defect is a deviant and either killed outright or sent off to The fringes to live with the other mutant.As he grows up David becomes aware of others like him who can communicate in thought patterns.
This if discovered would be classed as deviant and they and he would be in grave danger.
David has to protect his friends and especially his younger sister so when danger threatens he takes them away to find a home on the Fringes.
I did feel the end was a little too wrapped up for my liking but still well worth a read.3 1/2 * rounded up to 4
However if we divide this book into heroes and villains, and weigh up the pros and cons for each group we find that the “heroes” are the greater monsters.
If the villains are defined by their intolerance of anyone or anything that deviates from the norm then our band of heroes, and their ultimate savior, are the worst offenders.
I was left wondering if Wyndham’s views on abnormality aren’t the opposite of what they appear to be at first glance.
“people like us” indeed!After reading both this book and The Day Of The Triffids, I couldn’t help questioning Wyndham’s attitude towards disability.
Physical mutations are common, but, at least in the strict, religious, patriarchal village that is all young David has ever known, mutants - animal, vegetable or human - are ruthlessly weeded out.
But when the psychic mutants from across the radioactive wastes sweep in, deus-ex-machina-like, to rescue Petra, the children may be delighted - but the reader can see that these more-advanced people, in turn, regard Humanity 1.0 as mere animals.
(hide spoiler)] With that setup, there really should've been a followup to explore the issue, in my opinion.Read for post-apocalyptic book club.
Perhaps the best sound-bite from the anti-evolution camp is the one about the tornado.
If a tornado hit a junkyard, how likely is it that it would randomly create a 747?
The whole point, as everyone from Darwin onward has explained, is that evolution isn't a one-shot process; it's the result of a gigantic number of tiny incremental steps, where Nature each time throws away nearly all the results as unpromising and keeps only the few that gave something worthwhile.So I'm not impressed with the tornado and the junkyard as an argument against evolution.
Once these deviations have been discovered, it is either to be destroyed on the spot or if you’re one of the few people born with a deformity, sterilized and banished from the community, destined to live in what they call “The Fringes”.Author John Wyndham brings us into the mind of David, a young man born with telepathic powers.
John Wyndham and this book pass the time test incredibly well. A fascinating look at post apocalyptic life.“Life is change... The living form defies evolution at its peril; if it does not adapt, it will be broken. The idea of completed man is the supreme vanity: the finished image is a sacrilegious myth.”
I nominated this book for my real-life book club because I was trying to think of something that would fit a Halloween-sort-of theme, and some description I saw of this book mentioned the Devil, so why not?Sorry, book club.
This particular post-ap novel is also a coming-of-age story, which I have to admit surprised me.
I was fascinated and interested throughout the story, and that's really what's important to me.I would also take a moment to reflect on the author's name which, originally, is not just John Wyndham like a regular schmoe.
Absolutely brilliant - one of the best books I've read in terms of dealing with a post-apocalyptic world and what they might mean. The writing is beautiful and the characterisation and world-building subtly done. The society Wyndham builds is terrifying and fascinating, and brilliantly created. I think I preferred the slower first half to the more action-driven second half, but this will still definitely be one of my favourites of this year!
Like all great novels this book ties to both the past, the present and the future of its readership and humanity.The plot follows one adolescent boy, David, growing up in a kind of post-apocalyptic world where an event named 'the Tribulation' has occurred.
In this community mutation is intolerable, a 'deviation' from man as the 'true image' of God. Of course the protagonist David recognises the fallacy of viewing mutants as inhuman:"Well, every part of a definition is as important as any other; and if a child doesn't come within it, then it isn't human, and that means it doesn't have a soul.
A very thought-provoking and equally entertaining read that explores various themes close to my heart. Amongst them are the notion of the 'ideal' body, the use and abuse of power, the evolution of the mind and the concepts of truth and falsehood. And the best thing about this book is that it features my favourite kind of fictional characters: wise children with telepathic power!
Ama bilimkurgunun, hatta belki de biraz da fantastiğin o kendine özgü eleştiri kılıcını kuşanarak, farklı ve gerçeküstü bir yoldan yapıyor bunu.Hikayemiz Waknuk köyünde yaşayan, David adlı bir çocuğun başından geçenleri konu alıyor.
Çünkü Waknuk halkı, özellikle de köyün vaizi olan babası “Sapkınlar” adını verdikleri tüm mutantlara karşı amansız bir savaş açmış durumda.
Bunu neredeyse 60 yıl kadar önce, 1955’te kaleme almış olması fakat aradan geçen bunca zamana rağmen bir arpa boyu yol alamamış olmamızsa kitabın insanın ağzında acı bir tat bırakan, feci gerçekçi bir yanı.Çabuk okunan, keyif alınan, eğlendirirken düşündüren, macerası da eksik olmayan güzel bir bilimkurgu eseri Krizalitler.
This was a bit different from The Day of the Triffids, (the only other John Wyndham novel I have read) and a bit similar as well.
The Triffids is set during an present day (at the time of publication that is) apocalypse, while The Chrysalids is a post apocalyptic novel set in the future.
Most importantly for me, I liked both of them.It's an interesting read at this point in time when distrust for science seems to be increasing, and religious fanaticism Seems to be on the rise.
A post apocalyptic world in which society puritanically tries to resist the deviations that beset their crops, livestock and people through genetic mutations.
David Strorm, never quite understanding his father's fervour for normality soon discovers that he (and certain others) deviate from the norm in a new and undetectable way.
As they try to keep their difference hidden and try to be normal, they eventually discover that they won't ever fit in and with the arrival of David's sister Petra, it becomes impossible to maintain that illusion.This story is an allegory for social change in Britian in the 1950's.
It explores the tension between the social forces for change and conservatism.

#11 in my Top 20 Books I Read in 2015: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zIWkw...An excellent excercise in post-apocalyptic fiction from a master of the genre - compelling storytelling, intelligent reflections and believable characters. An amazing reading experience.PS, chrysalids = readers. Think about it.
4.5 stars!
I usually have a three book rule which states that I only read three consecutive books by any author.
It's mostly to stop me from getting bored.
Not so with Wyndham.
I haven't read the Chrysalids since I was a youth, and, understandably, a lot of the evolutionary/religious themes were lost on me back then.
It's a much richer reading experience now.
As usual with Wyndham, this is a story which raises all manner of questions regarding what constitutes perfection, whether God concerns himself with definitions imposed by society, and the small minded approach of religious zealots.
I love this book! It affects me every time I read it, or listen to/watch an adaptation of The Chrysalids. The depiction of a post-nuclear world, where a tiny minority of telepaths are pitted against the general population of religious bigots is pure Wyndham. He takes just a small step away, presents a "What if?" scenario, and proceeds to show human behaviour in all its aspects, warts and all.
Aslında felaketin ne olduğunun tam olarak bilmiyoruz fakat canlılarda görülen mutasyonlar bize her ne olduysa bunun nükleer bir durum olduğunu tahmin ettiriyor.
Waknuk köyündeki David'in hikayesini okuyoruz.
Waknuk köyü oldukça dindar ve tüm canlıların Tanrı'nın onları yarattığı şekilde olması gerektiğini düşünerek bunun dışında kaldığını var saydıkları her şeyi 'Sapkınlık' olarak nitelendirip yok etme yolunu seçen insanlarla dolu.
David görünüş olarak gereken niteliklerin tümümü karşılasa da aslında o da bir mutant; David'in mutasyonu zihninde ve onun kendi gibi diğerleriyle konuşmadan iletişim kurabilmesini sağlıyor.Kitap değişimi kabullenememek, bilinmeyenden korkmak ve kendine olmayanı dışlamak gibi insanlığın kötü yönlerini ele alıyor.Yorumun Devamı --> https://www.instagram.com/yaprak.onur/
3.5 out of 5 starsThis was my first John Wyndham book, and though I can't say I loved it, I am definitely interested in reading more of his work. This particular post-apocalyptic setting is very interesting, but the characters took a while for me to get into, and the second half of the book was more engaging than the first. Overall, I enjoyed it and would recommend it to fans of post-apocalyptic fiction.
The good guys vs bad guys narrative really gets complicated by the end of this novel...
I enjoyed Wyndham's Day of the Triffids, but I enjoyed The Chrysalids rather more: I fell in love with the way he created a whole post-apocalyptic world in just a few pages.
I loved all the details of it -- harsh and oppressive as it would be to live that life, it's a fantastic read for someone interested in post-apocalyptic dystopia.It wasn't, really, all that new to me, the modern reader.
Most of the group, I don't think I'll remember their names tomorrow.
David and Rosalind do have a sweetness to them, but at the same time, if I think of what marked them out as people...
With this novel Wyndham abandons his contemporary-documentary settings and style and tells a future-post-nuclear-holocaust tale instead - and wow!
Once again Wyndham brings to the fore his rather weak understanding of evolutionary theory but this only detracts slightly from the book, as it is a minor theme raised only near the end.The fact that this novel generates excitement and pace - becomes difficult to put down in the second half - and has themes not based on spurious extrapolation of Darwinian evolution makes this easily and by far the best of the Wyndham books I've re-read in the last year or so.
"And God created man in His own image."But no one has actually seen God. One can only come up with their own projected image of God, and inevitably, this projection will be closest to themselves:"And God decreed that man should have one body, one head, two arms and two legs: that each arm should be joined in two places and end in one hand: that each hand should have four fingers and one thumb: that each finger should bear a flat finger-nail...Then God created woman, also, in the same image, but with these differences, according to her nature: her voice would be of higher pitch than man's: she should grow no beard: she should have two breasts..."The only problem?
Man's arrogance makes him a master of refusal:"They stamp on any change: they close the way and keep the type fixed because they've got the arrogance to think themselves perfect.
This is the best of the Wyndham books. Quite a good adventure about a bunch of kids that are worried about being hunted down by their community in a post apocalyptic setting.
