https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18869979-the-loving-spirit
And even though her voice here isn’t as refined as in her later novels, especially Rebecca, it is strong with a whiff of the greatness it will ultimately mould into.The central point of the story is Janet Coombe: the eye of the storm, the point of origin of the centrifugal force that pulls in and binds the four generations of the ship building family of Coombe.
She is the loving spirit.Janet Coombe is a young girl more fascinated with the sea than with the wordly obessions of her contemporaries and community.
Joseph embodies the spirit of Janet and being a man succumbs to his love for the uncharted waters.
All I could think of whilst Janet had her 'thing ' for her son was "Call the social services".I know I sometimes used to wish my mum would have been slightly more affectionate but for Heaven's sake, control yourself madam.
Very odd, very odd.Janet Coombe's creepy adoration of her second son and his obsession with her gave this whole book a veneer of yeuch even though she was dead by page 100 and he had popped his clogs by page 195 leaving almost another 200 pages to cleanse the palate.
horribly, I think they just might are here' would not be a quotation with which I could wholly concur.
It pains me to admit that this was not a book I really enjoyed reading, but it is du Maurier`s first novel and she definitely got better the more books she wrote.
It pains me to admit that this was not a book I really enjoyed reading, but it is du Maurier`s first novel and she definitely got better the more books she wrote.
(The novel is divided into four books, each one telling the tale of a particular member of the Coombes family of Cornwall.) The author writes of an obsessive, mad passion between two people that reminds me of nothing so much as the destructive love of Heathcliff and Catherine in Wuthering Heights.
Emotionally, psychologically, spiritually, and erotically, Janet and Joseph are a couple; Joseph goes on to have another kind of obsession with his own son Christopher that leads to a psychotic breakdown when Christopher fails to become a seaman, like himself; Christopher adores his own daughter Jennifer to distraction, and she feels the same about him.
This is by far the best book I have ever read. I am currently searching for more books by this author. The transgenerational and "loving sprit" of this story is remarkable. I love reading stories of women, who much like myself, have lived a trying life, only to rise above all turmoil and really see life for what it is. Most rewarding read.
I proclaim it for the hundredth time - You can never go wrong with a Maurier novel..A family saga of the Coombes from Plyn in Cornwall across four generations.Janet Coombe - Joseph Coombe - Christopher Coombe - Jennifer Coombe..Four stars and not five only because I felt that the reader could be spared the tedious descriptions of a regular day in the lives of the myriad characters in the novel..Review to follow soon.
If the book did nothing to hint at the author’s later greatness in the early days of its publication, then it certainly can inspire a generation of readers to look back over the legacy of work and appreciate how much talent and promise du Maurier evinced from the start.
I only wonder at how the readers of the 30s must have felt when they first read it, but it has stood the test of time remarkably well and I feel it will continue to do so for many years to come, given its fundamental themes of love and seeking for completion and peace in something greater than yourself.Highly recommended, but given its slow pace it's probably better suited for du Maurier fans.
4/5
On se laisse porter par les descriptions, on ressent la présence de la mer, des embruns salés et cela rend le roman très immersif.J'ai beaucoup apprécié le fait de suivre ces quatre générations de personnages même si j'ai eu une grosse préférence pour Christopher et Jennifer.
Joseph est un personnage très particulier mais avec lequel je n'ai pas du tout accroché.
Il m'a paru bien trop égoïste, voire carrément détestable à certains moments, vis à vis de son entourage tout au long du roman.En résumé, même si ce n'est pas forcément le roman que je vous conseillerais en premier pour découvrir Daphné du Maurier, cela reste une très bonne lecture.
"High above the clustered houses and the grey harbour waters of Plyn, the loving spirit smiles and is free."  Here's the thing about me: I don't really like family sagas. I tried to read two of them in the past year or so, and every time, it wasn't exactly my cup of tea. Going into The Loving Spirit, I was mainly curious to see if Daphne du Maurier could change my mind, but most importantly, I wanted to see what her debut novel was like, as I had already read My Cousin Rachel and Jamaica Inn. W
Going into The Loving Spirit, I was mainly curious to see if Daphne du Maurier could change my mind, but most importantly, I wanted to see what her debut novel was like, as I had already read My Cousin Rachel and Jamaica Inn. Well.
I actually noticed the similarities with Wuthering Heights that were pointed out and it even made me want to reread the book and then The Loving Spirit all over again.Then, I started reading and I absolutely fell in love with the entire novel.
Other than that, it's the first time I've loved a family saga, du Maurier's writing was as stunning as ever, the setting compelling and I already want to reread it.
J'ai eu un peu de mal à rentrer dans l'histoire, mais j'ai adoré et eu du mal à le lâcher une fois que c'était fait. J'ai vraiment l'impression que Janet reste le personnage principal de l'histoire, avec la mer bien sur. Ce roman m'a fait rêver de baisers salés et de nuits bercées par les vagues. A déguster.
کتابی بود که تقریبا تا 200 صفحه اول انگار داشتم زندگینامه و یه جورایی یه ورژن از آینده ی تاریک خودمو توش میدیدم , و به حدی برام احساسی بود که بعد از مدت ها با کتاب های های گریه کردم.
خلاصه پسر سومش (که توی خلاصه ی کتاب گفته پسر اول و اشتباهه) جوزف کاملا این احساس و اخلاق مادرشو به ارث میبره و ....کتاب خیلی سریع از نظر زمان پیش میرفت و تو همین 400 صفحه زندگی چند نسل رو کاور کرد.
This was her first book (written in the 1930's). Having read all of Daphne's fiction, this one was a wonderful surprise. Not 'stodgy' or dry...........a page turner with wonderful characters that follow a genealogy line in Cornwall.I'd re-read this again and again!
It wasn't really love at first sight between The Loving Spirit and I, but after finishing it, I feel a strange nostalgia at leaving the Coombe family and the Cornish scenery behind...The first two narratives did not appeal to me as much as the last two - I couldn't quite feel close to Janet and Joseph, to their restlessness (which I found at times too selfish..) and to their very close relationship which made me quite uneasy at times I must say.
Concerning four generations of the Coombe family of Plyn (another fantastically realised setting, as seems always to be the case with du Maurier), and the restless yet loving spirit that unites them.More than anything this book feels like a love letter to the Cornish coast, one whose sentiments I share entirely and would imagine that any reader would find hard to resist.
a fantastic family story with great characters: tragic, mystic, beautiful and full of life, love and hate. I loved every page!
Ce roman de Daphné du Maurier est bien le premier qui me laisse de marbre, en raison sans doute de mon non-intérêt pour la mer, les bateaux & les sagas familiales.
This first novel of Du Maurier's tells the story of four generations of the Coombe family of Plyn, Cornwall beginning in the early 1800's as young bride Janet Coombe, happy as she is with her children and husband, always longs for the freedom of the sea.
The book culminates with the story of Christopher's daughter Jennifer as her restless spirit brings her back to Plyn to a chance meeting with a long-lost cousin at the wreck of the Janet Coombe, as well as a show down with her great-uncle Phillip over the damage his hatred has wreaked on the Coombe family.Throughout the book, the loving spirit of Janet Coombe seems to guide her family through the best and worst times of their lives.
3,5/5Une belle lecture sur la famille Coombs qu'on suit sur plusieurs générations.
Leur peine, leur passion ou haine de la mer, les rivalités ou l'amour entre membres de la famille, tout ça est très sympathique mais je n'ai pas été plus emballée que ça.
Cette histoire m'a fait un peu pensé au livre "Cent ans" que j'ai lu en début d'année aussi dans le cadre du club de lecture ms.Cependant, j'ai été heureuse de faire connaissance avec l'écriture de Daphné du Maurier grâce à son premier livre.
J'ai envie de relire un autre de ses titres où elle était plus confirmée pour goûter à nouveau à se plume.
The book is great. I am still at the 'true love' stage with Daphne, and with any great love affair, I can not help expressing myself about my new found passion to anybody that I come into contact with, this might explain the nervous glances I am receiving from my more masculine acquaintances after yet another discourse from me concerning the greatness of du Maurier's prose her wonderful storytelling ability and how a du Maurier baddy is a truly monstrous character indeed. Next please.
Loved this book, couldn't put it down. Many of Du Maurier's hallmarks can be seen here: passion, drama, suspense, and the always beautifully described landscapes of the Cornish coast. Knowing that this is her first novel made it easy for me to forgive any weak spots; indeed, I hardly noticed them once I got into the story. I was too hooked on what would happen next! Very satisfying read.
This is impressive for a debut novel. Typical du Maurier Cornish setting. Atypical du Maurier in that it lacked a little with the dark and twisted plot turns. I still really enjoyed it, and Daphne remains my favorite author!!!
Du Maurier had a real gift for making her settings almost characters in their own rights and The Loving Spirit is no exception; Plyn leaps off the page, a vibrant and bustling ship building town with its pockets of pastoral bliss.The Loving Spirit doesn’t have much in the way of plot, instead being a look at the lives of four generations of one family and how family members almost seem to be reincarnations throughout generations.
As a debut novel, The Loving Spirit is an ambitious start to a long and eventful career for famed author Daphne du Maurer.
A historical romance based on one family's events, du Maurer follows the Coombs from 1830 to 1930, which each generation represented by a particular family member.
It truly foretells the ability to present a story filled with strong ideals, developed characterization, suspense, and a lively descriptive setting.What's even more interesting about the book is that so much of du Maurer's personality is found in the characters: the appreciation for village life, the longing for adventure, the restlessness, and the desire to have been born a boy.
I was going to give this 4 stars, but realised I was comparing this to Du Maurier's later novels. If this were a contemporary debut novelist's work, 5 stars without hesitation. I love a good family saga. Following 4 generations of the Coombe family in a Cornish village from the early 1800s to early 1900s. I enjoyed the first part the least, but it tied the story together.
According to this (not-very-complimentary) review, one can actually still view the figurehead of the ship that is written about in "The Loving Spirit."I learned a lot about the background of this novel here: Daphne made an ambitious attempt at this generational saga set in Cornwall (one of my most favorite places!) Other reviewers have mentioned the borderline-strange bond between Joseph and his mother Jane...
However, in this case, "The Loving Spirit", or the way that Janet is able to influence further generations to take action, simply didn't work for me.The second issue I had was the desire for revenge against Philip.
I like Daphne du Maurier, and it was OK. Her first novel. Part was wonderful, part was slighly too romantic, and the plot was not believable. But on a whole, lots of very well written characters, and brilliant description of difficult family relationships.Just not as good as her following novels.Still good.
I really like novels by Daphne du Maurier but this one, her debut novel, which was I believe her version of Wuthering Heights, was a little too weird for my tastes
I am rating this book five stars because I remember reading it 35 years ago and would think of it at least once a year.
I did not remember the author or title so was never able to read this book again.
At that point I determined I wanted to revisit this book and see if it still lived up to my memories.
If you are a Du Maurier fan you will like this book.
It contains love, greed, hate, adventure, loneness and a bit of mystic premonition weaving throughout.I borrowed this book from the Royal Oak MI library
Daphne's first novel _ wonderfully writtenNot knowing what this story was about but knowing I have loved everything so far, the Daphne du Maurier has written, this of course was a must read as well as all her novels.
I can see how Daphne liked Emily Bronte's Wuthering Heights, in this family saga that has a gothic spirituality element from start of Janet's life until the last of her children's, children's children.
This is based on a family that she researched and that makes it more interesting but not knowing the particulars.
