https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13265617-a-general-introduction-to-psychoanalysis
Near his life's end he recorded [on audio] these words:"I started my professional activity trying to bring relief to my neurotic patients. I discovered some important new facts about the unconscious. People did not believe in my facts and thought my theories unsavory. In the end I succeeded, but the struggle is not yet over".It had its 1st edition in 1920 and the book was aimed at laypeople. In its preface, Stanley Hall noticed that Psychoanalysis was not much of a topic for the APA (American Ps
In its preface, Stanley Hall noticed that Psychoanalysis was not much of a topic for the APA (American Psychological Association), though in other fields (biography, education, literature, history...) it had gained widespread interest.I would divide the topics approached, in these 28 lectures, in three main areas: (1) the psychology of Errors; (2) the Dream; (3) the Neurosis."A slip of the tongue which occurs in Shakespeare's Merchant of Venice, Act III, Scene II, is exceedingly delicate in its poetic motivation and technically brilliant in its handling".
One is not advised to just jump into Freud, as I did, taking little account of the order of his publications.
He revised his theories too often.I was fortunate to read this series of lectures early on, although I would have been even more fortunate to have read his earlier work on hysteria first.
Here Freud's theory is presented simply in lectures intended for a lay audience and here Freud's theory itself is still relatively simple compared to developments post-Beyond the Pleasure Principle.I read this during the height of the Watergate investigations while living at grandmother's Michigan cabin with my brother Fin and a close high school friend.
Having no television, phonograph or tape player, there was a lot of good reading done that summer.
Whenever I mentioned Freud to anyone, including those who had never read him, I seemed to get a pretty common response: "Oh, you mean the sex-obsessed psychologist?" My goal was to read this book, and then to explain that his "sex-obsession" did not exist, was blown out of proportion, etc.
However, even though he traces way top many psychological problems and dream symbols back to sex, I think one of his main themes is correct.
According to Freud, everything from flying, to having your teeth pulled, to something as simple as an orange all have a sexual meaning behind them.
Even with his sex-obsession, I still found Freud quite interesting.
This is the book https://eduardolbm.files.wordpress.co...
How to avoid letting your beliefs about its author creep in.I will settle for a middle ground; the book (a series of lectures) will be enjoyable for those who are interested in Freudian theory, the history of psychology/psychiatry, Freud himself, and as a snap shot of some of the key areas of investigation that lead to the development of psycho-analytic theory and treatment.
These lectures are loaded with insight and astounding observations about human behaviour.For those interested in the field this book is worth the time as a summary of his early conceptual ideas, before he made major adjustments to his theories to bring in the superego and death drive.
Freud's theories and psychoanalytic therapies were pretty revolutionary at the end of the 19th century and in the first part of the 20th, but now psychology has evolved and changed a lot since then; therefore I don't know how relevant are Freud's theories in the 21th century.However, if you want to read this book, you must know that it contains 28 chapters, which are grouped in free parts: The Psychology of Errors, The Dream and General Theory of the Neuroses.
I personally enjoyed the most the chapter about dreams, symbols which appear in dreams, wish-fulfilment dreams, chensorship in dreams and many more.
Enjoy.
I'm reading it for university exams and it has caught my attention. Now i want to learn more about psychoanalysis
I'm giving this book five stars not because I agree with every concept in Freud's psychoanalytic theory but because I am fascinated with them, the theories they proffer and their accompanying cases which Freud related.
Freud strikes me as a fascinating man.
How he came up with these concepts I don't know (our professor told us Freud himself showed symptoms of his own theories but I'll have to check on that).
After reading this book at least one important question I've always asked myself was answered: Why is Freud, even after all these years, even with more productive theories and developments in psychology than his, so goddamn popular?
I hardly know of the topic, and Freud's texts are somewhat heavy to me, but this book was straightforward and very understandable, even when it is plagued with some questionable approaches to the scientific method and fact-based research altogether. I feel compelled to add that the combination of prose and length of the work turns out to be merciless to an unaccustomed reader. It is a very illustrative introduction to the sciences of behavior and psychoanalysis, although I've heard from some friends it is heavily outdated in some aspects and results. Still, it has some useful insights.
As a psychologist, perhaps I expected to much. Whatever it is, I didn't "profit" from it too much. Perhaps because of outdated, I would even say self-serving style of writing. And of course, some parts of the theory being obviously wrong. Like, every box or container in a dream is a symbol of female sex organ. I mean, come one Mr. F:)
Broad concepts are all there; references and side-notes are outdated. I finished an extended version, which was around 400 pages, and it was long winded at times.
This good book is good an complicated, it will make you get lost some times
The chapters I read on dreams still make some sense in terms of censorship and wish fulfillment. But the focus on repressed sexuality is dated.
But his understanding of the work of analysis and its relation with the unconscious continually expel it from being either objective or properly scientific.
I believe that it is in opening us up to the 'unconscious' (Freud's signifier for an unsignifiable) that psychoanalysis reveals its value.But it also may manifest the grasping nature of humanity as well.
As he comments in the last two lectures, psychoanalysis works through a sort of suggestion, as a re-education.
As a subjective experience between two, the meaning founded through analysis is subject to an indoctrination or ideology in no less a way than any other education.
I wish I had read Mortimer Adler's "How to Read a Book" before I tackled this.
This set of lectures is very full of terminology that gets in the way of understanding it.
It is possible, though, that the terms Freud uses are dated and don't mean the same as they do today.
In one passage, he uses these terms: libido, interest, sexual instincts, ego instincts, object-libido, ego-libido, ego-energy.
In one case, believing the audience was confused and upset possibly with his approach (I was), he says ...
If you tackle this, make sure you spend the time to understand his terms, his propositions, his arguments, etc.
This book is very longwinded and you can feel Freud's anxiety (or narcissism) as he speaks (these are transcripts).However, he does offer a tremendous amount about the theory of psychoanalysis.
And if your only interest in the discourse is the idea behind it and an overview, this is an amazing book.
There are definitely shorter ones, but they miss the key details.This book also offers an answer to why Freud didn't use hypnosis: he believed that the only thing it can be used for is direct suggestion.
If only the man had tried to use hypnosis to do psychoanalytic type work...
This is presented as a series of lectures. It rambled quite a bit, and I don't know whether it was the original or the translation at fault, but it was often hard to follow. It rarely gets into the actual mechanics, the symptoms or the cures, of psychoanalsis, which I found disappointing. A lot of it dealt with the difficulties of dealing with patients, and it seemed to be meant for those who already had training in psychotherapy. Possibly this would make for more interesting reading if the reader has more knowledge in the field.
I recommend this for any introductory Freud reader... It offers some broad coverage of psychoanalytic theory in layman's terms. These lectures were conducted in a way that presupposed the ignorance of the audience, which shouldn't be seen as disrespectful, but as it was intended - as an "idiots guide" to psychoanalysis (at least a general understanding of it).Having read much of Freud's other works, this served as a more light-minded read while still maintaining the complexity and clarity familiar in his more popular works.

The book is boring at times and there were times where I finished only 5 pages in about same hours. But nonetheless, it was the pillar of modern psychoanalysis what Sigmund taught through many books and one being this. Not being very familiar to the subject matter, I took the ideas as a first timer and liked many of them. It's a good book, but if you are for something fun and overly-exciting keep your hands off it!
teori psikoanalisis nya banyak ditentang....salah satu nya yaitu manusia adalah binatang artinya tingkah pola manusia berdasarkan instinknya...salah satu insting itu yaitu sex ( libido )...banyak tokoh yang menentang teori ini......yang pada akhirnya Sigmund freud jarang lagi memakai istilah yang di atas lagi, pada buku2 berikutnya....teori psikoanalisis yaitu: -ID -EGO -dan SUPER EGO....tingkah laku manusia berdasarkan 3 item diatas..apaan tuh?...baca aja kalo mo tau
This master of suspicion, among others, has always baffled me. Now, after having read more than twenty-five lectures which covers perhaps the entirety of Freudian psychology I've learned in my PSY 101 class, I somehow understand him. The problem for me is, coming from a contemporary mindset, that there are a lot of hasty conclusions that Freud drew from his observations.
this book is ok but was not for me. I am sure that if you are more into psychoanalysis than I am then you would enjoy/find it more interesting than I did. I did persevere with it however and read it to the end.
A.K.A. A Genital Introduction To Psychoanalysis
gelezen: p.75-162
Just reading the most intriguing chapters. Skipping over some boring/repetitive stuff.
I have read this book way back in 1974--hardly 21 years then. Obviously it is different experience to read it again when you are 62. Let me see how it sounds to me now.
It's interesting but I feel like psychoanalysis is some very convoluted divination technique. Maybe more reading would give me a more scientific feel about it.
for a psychiatrist this $h!t is crazy
haha, id, ego, super-ego, kesadaran, prasadar, bawah sadar, penis envy, oedipus complex, bla-bla-bla-bla.....buku psikologi pertamaku...
