https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/190475.Reflections
We canremark in passing that there is no better starting point for thought than laughter.
In particular, thought usually has abetter chance when one is shaken by laughter than when one’s mind is shaken and upset.
The only extravagance ofthe epic theatre is its amount of laughter.This is a much more disparate collection than Illuminations.
Surely this is to be expected The isfting and editing.
The indecision.
Reflections' opening section A Berlin Chronicle is a cartographic autobiography.
It is a spatial narrative in the weirdest sense.
There is a disorientation present.
I love reading about Surrealism and Benjamin is a really good writer, I am a bit surprised to see him write so highly of it though.
4/5Karl Kraus - An interesting analysis of Karl Kraus, a writer I previously haven't heard of until this book (Benjamin quotes him in an earlier essay, then repeats it and explains it, its a wonderful quote: ""The more closely you look at a word, the more distantly it looks back.").
I would have liked this more if I was more familiar with Kraus's work, but Benjamin still made someone who I'll probably never read interesting to read about.
I really should revisit this book, as I only remember these two sentences, but it is perhaps my favorite quote of ever:The treasure-dispensing giant in the green pine forest or the fairy who grants one wish - they appear to each of us at least once in a lifetime. But only Sunday's children remember the wish they made, and so it is only a few who recognize its fulfillment in their own lives.
There were moments as brilliant as the essays in Illuminations, and then others that felt like an editor had over-zealously hoarded all of Benjamin's bed-side post-it notes and assumed they were all worth publishing.I probably just don't understand its significance, but I could be happy never having read the tedious recounting of detailed memories in "A Berlin Chronicle." And I got through "On Language as Such and on the Language of Man" only by holding my nose.
In fact, I think that it strangely shows the limits of Benjamin's talents, since I think his philosophical writing, which this contains tracts of, especially in later sections, is kind of junk.
This is especially true when he tries to tackle linguistics ("On Language as such"), but also his critique of violence, and in a couple other sections where, well, I think Benjamin is out of his depth (Political-religious fragment, or whatever it's called).
Being considered the "other" collection of Benjamin essays after Illuminations, it shouldn't shock me that these weren't as stunning.
That said, they are still fantastic.
This volume includes many of Benjamin's more personal, less theoretical writings, including the lengthy, wonderfully Germanic childhood reminiscence that opens the book.
I feel rather conflicted about the presence of a fragment of the lengthy essay/aphorism collection "One-Way Street." The whole thing is so coruscant that it feels like a damn shame to only print part of it, but even reading part of it is enough to send me into rapture.
There are certain essays in here ("Critique of Violence," for example) that are solid fives. Demetz's introduction, with some modification/caveats, and whether for good or ill, pinpoints a large part of what draws me to Benjamin: "his philosophy, sustained by utter loneliness, rather than by the concerns of the masses, particularly attracts those intellectuals who restlessly search for a better world and yet shy away from the grubbbier commitments of a practical kind."
While, as a philosopher, I think I like Karl Marx the most, Hegel really just shaped the way I see and have seen the world.I mention all of this because Walter Benjamin is legitimately an exciting writer.
About 4 books were books I had half read a while ago, and I finished them.Still, Walter Benjamin's Illuminations was a 5-star book in every sense of the word to me.
Illuminations was equally exciting and thoughtful.Reflections, another collection of unrelated essays--for most of Benjamin's work was unrelated essays--is a five star books, as far as I'm concerned, but it is not as good as Illuminations.
A bit of a slog in the final part, in the last section of essays. The section on Berlin was wonderful, as was the essay on surrealism. It's always worth digging through For the insights, the aphorisms, the way he gets to the heart of language and culture.
+ One Way Street; Moscow; Paris, Capital of...; Conversations with Brecht; Author as Producer; Critique of Violence
This posthumously-published collection of essays, covers a variety of topics from his life in pre-WWII Berlin, the theatre, time with Bertolt Brecht, language and time spent in Moscow, Paris, Naples and Marseille. These were fascinating and insightful and his memories of Berlin have prompted me to consider perhaps making stylistic changes to my own autobiography. It’s one of those books that invites the reader to re-read an essay or two ever so often.
Walter Benjamin qualifies his mode of collecting the past, referring to the process as one of gathering reminiscences rather than writing autobiography, which implies a chronological flow of time.Benjamin’s recollection of life emerges as a form of respect, a reverence for pockets of time perfectly restored and finished.
Like an archeologist, Benjamin gently chips away at the smooth surfaces of remembrance, until he exposes “the real treasure hidden within the earth: the images, severed from all earlier associations, that stand—like precious fragments or torsos in a collector’s gallery—in the prosaic rooms of our later understanding” (26).
Although he was in many ways a tragic individual, and his brilliant life ended both tragically and ironically, still he brought new light to and ways of looking at everything around me: from the city streets that I walk down, to the way that I walk; from art, to friendship, to something as simple as the coffee shop that I choose to drink in and the way that it evolves through space and time.
From the unfinished Arcades Project, to these essays, Benjamin reduces philosophy to the grandness of the mysterious heavens on one page and then raises it down to the minutia of everyday life the next.
Even Lefebvre didn't do the philosophy of everyday like Benjamin does.
I actually enjoyed this more than the favored Illuminations collection. It gives greater insight into Benjamin's unconventional way of thinking and ties together some of his literary theory with his philosophy. "Critique of Violence" is, of course, exceptionally amazing. I also really enjoyed the pieces on Brecht, "Theologio-Political Fragment," "The Destructive Character," and "Paris, Capital of the 19th Centruy."
Currently reading his thoughts on translation, although not completely sure I am in agreement with the idea of the revelation of a universal in the relationship between languages as manifest through translation...but I'm not through yet...
This collection of essays includes his reflections on smoking Hashish, the depths of love and aging and his more marxist analyses of art and literature. Benjamin is always provactive and these essays are elegant and insightful.
Berlin Chronicle's got some great fit and starts of psychedelic memory dissection .My favorite part so far is when W.B. loses the diagram of his life. Two pages a day is about as many thoughts as I can hold; that's a good thing.
Another great collection of essays by the great German Marxist mystic. I believe this contains the essay, "The Author as Producer" - an amazing piece of literature on Bertolt Brecht.
A complex thinker with fragmented, peripatetic, and often poetic literary criticism. Not an easy read, but sprinkled with surprising insight, as all of his writings are.
i read/wrote a 50 page paper on, "Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction". phew.
Benjamin begins with literary criticism and ends with an ontology completely his own.
Benjamin was targeted by the Nazis. He was on the run to escape Europe. It appeared hope was lost and he would not find passage so he committed suicide. The next day, the passage worked out.
my favorite benjamin, so readable
I offer up a fifth star to the mythopoetic god of obscurity, that my syntactic contortions might be salved
book 3 only
