https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/455925.Running_Blind
“But you are kind of arrogant, you know?” she said. “Prosecutor, judge, jury, executioner, all in one? What about the rules?”He smiled.“Those are the rules,” he said. “People mess with me, they find that out pretty damn quick.” FIVE SOLID STARS, YES!!!Once again, Lee Child has delivered another winner with this smashing mystery/suspense/thriller story. Normally I’m a bit leery about picking up a book that is over 500 pages long. I would say most of the novels I’ve read are between 250 and 350 p
I must admit, I never thought it would end this way, but well, it didn’t really matter because I was pleased anyway!Even though there were only a few action scenes in this book, they were good and I enjoyed them all.
The story mostly focused on an investigation which held my attention and kept me engrossed all the way through.Due to plenty twists and turns in this book, it’s difficult for me to write a review without giving the story all away.
Please dont insult the readers intelligence.On a personal level - Reacher lets himself down my having a liaison with another invesigator before he closes things down with his previous dream woman, who he leaves cause he doesnt want to settle down.By far and away, the weakest in the series to date.I will perservere with the next one however.
He’s got the book on this guy, knows the formula.
Starts inside to back the hitter off the plate and then works the corners.So he’s surprised when the first pitch is a loping change up, a slower pitch that comes across the outer edge of the plate for a strike.
The next few pitches are all over the place – high, low, fast, slow, balls and another strike.
The first three books held to a pretty simple formula centered around the implacable and stoic hero.
First of all, I normally love the Jack Reacher books for what they are: guilty pleasures and a fun way to spend an afternoon.
Drinking poisoned Kool-Aid is a far cry from voluntarily swallowing your tongue.Other problems: Lamarr volunteered early on that she and her stepsister would inherit money when Lamarr's stepfather died.
I can imagine that being a young female FBI agent is tough enough without walking around braless with a tight white shirt on.The problems with the book are too numerous to recount.
I hope the next one will live up to the standard set in the first three books.
You should "play along" and help out a woman who claims sexual harassment, even if you know (and will then tell everyone else) that you think she was just being a big ho.4.
When you meet a pretty girl, she's required to give you her vital stats, because what else would you want to know about her?
When said pretty girl tells you that she feels like she's continually harassed and objectified, go ahead and objectify her as well, because hey, you're Jack Reacher.
7. No one can resist Jack Reacher.So....
2  stars. Long, drawn out process investigating murders. Not enough action. The ending was frustrating.REVIEWER’S OPINION:The story starts off in an exciting way with thugs demanding payoffs from a new restaurant owner. Reacher likes the restaurant and takes action. That was fun. But after that there was very little action, not enough. It was a long, drawn out process trying to solve the murders, but no one figured anything out until the very end. I’m reminded of the Michael Connelly books which
The first third of the book was pretty good due to anticipation, but the end was a letdown.I really like the Reacher character and the series.
Although I had problems with this book, it still kept my interest, and I plan to read the next one.The FBI does really bad things to force Reacher to work on the case.
So I didn’t feel good at the end of the book.I wanted the killer to suffer.
Just don’t think about it.STORY BRIEF:A serial killer is killing women who were raped or sexually harassed while in the military.
Reacher and the FBIRunning Blind offers the reader an impossible puzzle, sort of like the locked-room murder puzzle.
There's a serial killer out there and it's a complete puzzle how the murders are being committed.
In fact, it's such a puzzle that the FBI has to bring in Jack Reacher to solve it.
As long as you don't get hung up on the unlikelihood of that playing out, you'll enjoy a pretty good mystery with few clues and a lot of dead ends to bang into.This is the fourth Reacher novel and, if like me you skipped the second and third books, you'll be shocked at the new Reacher, no longer a drifter, a stranger without a home.
I did enjoy them and I did enjoy this one, but I don't want to get hooked in as they are not my normal genre.As per usual Jack is larger than life and without giving anything away he is instrumental n both the crime(s) and the solving.
One has to admire him despite him being so bloody perfect.(view spoiler)[I must admit that I really wanted him to get off with Harper but hey ho (hide spoiler)]All in all a good book and for 500+ pages it did whizz by.
"I am the one and only..." - Chesney Hawkes "Vodka helped create some of the greatest fiction we've ever read" - some quote by someone, somewhere, after a bottle. To give Lee Childs his due, he is excellent writer of popcorn fiction - you know, the tough-guy-with-his-own-rules character. I'm a big fan of Jack Reacher and his on goings. The Visitor is slightly different to the other three Reacher novels in the sense Jack isn't smashing people's faces up so much, it's more a direct murder/mystery
The Visitor is slightly different to the other three Reacher novels in the sense Jack isn't smashing people's faces up so much, it's more a direct murder/mystery story.
He gets thrown in the deep end and offered a chance to work with the FBI, where they are investigating a serial killer who isn't a fan of women in the military.
The ending finished how I guessed it would, leaving me thinking - despite all the murders and running around going on, it was all too obvious.
Another out of character nugget was Jack's tedious moaning and whining about his life, what's going on between him and Jodie.
In the 2nd book, Jack Reacher had exposed corrupt FBI agents, saved a cherished FBI agent (and daughter of a high-ranking general), and stopped a terrorist attack, but this doesn't even merit a mention when he's picked up by the FBI again?
These FBI agents are allowed to lock him up in Quantico and put a camera on him?
Try to get a sexy FBI agent to bang him?
At least the relationship he established in the last book is still here, but that's about it for continuity.
You can hypnotize people into killing themselves?
I'm afraid I'm going to have give Jack reacher a rest for a while.
Plus, the investigators are morons!
Lee Child makes the FBI no more tha stupid thugs that can't get anything done without resorting to threats of everything from framing someone from murder to actually having them, or their loved ones, killed.
Just stupid.And another thing since I'm on a roll, I am really upset about Lee Child's understanding of military investigatory services.
The MPs don't investigate more than petty crime.
Just changing the service to Army CID would give a lot more credence to the backstory of Reacher.
A Reacher novel is kinda' like pizza: Even when it's not great, it's still usually pretty good.
If I told the heart of the mystery you wouldn't believe it, thinking it's the plot from some 3rd-rate Karloff movie from the 1930s, but once you realized I was serious and that that really was the crux of the issue here, you'd agree and say, "OMG, that IS stupid!" I won't give a spoiler because I don't want to be blocked, but it's a stinker.
And I liked the way Reacher (in some cases) was running circles around the authority figures who thought they had him under their thumbs.
I always "feel" that I should like the Jack Reacher books better.
As the books go along there always seems to be (to me anyway) times where Jack just doesn't make a lot of sense within his own story/plot/personality.
I like James Garner, but he'd have to get paid once in a while to keep going not get stiffed on ever single job as he seems to on that program.Okay, that said what we get here is a good well crafted story with Jack being strong armed into working with the FBI (if you're like me you'll grit your teeth at the pushy feds...I'm not a big government person anyway).
Good one, nice solid 4 star read, Enjoy.
My rating: 4/5The novel is great as the first two.
I have to read the third one but I just couldn't get it in a lower price in amazon.
So I bought the fourth one which is running blind or visitor.
But when I jumped into the story I found out that the third book and the fourth are connected in a way ( not by story, so no problem) But You can read the third after four.
There will be no problem in it.
A character is present in both the books.Just like the first two ones the phasing of the novel is really fast.
sasvim solidan ReacherNeke navedene "jedinice" drugih recenzenata nikako ne stoje, ovo je četvrta Jackova knjiga - nastavak prošle što se tiče njegove socijalizacije (cura, stalno prebivalište...) s dobrim rješenjima (znajući kako postoji još hrpa "lutalica" knjiga), OK twistovi, ma baš sasvim solidno.Kad se čita "bezmozgovna" literatura treba biti i svjestan toga te se osloboditi nekih većih očekivanja i samo se opustiti.Sinoć sam gledao zadnji "Tomojle Krstaš" film - puno, puno slabije od knjige.Ako je ovo podžanr koji vas opušta, samo nastavite redom - Child je ispekao zanat.Između 3 i 4
After reading half a dozen or so Reacher novels in the last couple of months, a couple of things are starting to become clear.
Another thing that becomes quickly apparent is that while these books are fun, popcorn reads, Lee Child has little, if any, interest in long-term continuity.
Having read-ahead in the series and finding Reacher without house or girlfriend, I assumed something interesting must happen in Running Blind to remove Reacher from this comfort zone.Apparently, not so much.
The house and the girlfriend are barely a blip on the radar as Reacher is drawn into the events of Running Blind.
Writing a review of a book like this a week after reading it is not a wise idea as I don’t really recall all the events.
A mysterious character going around killing ex-army people which leads the FBI to think it is Jack Reacher for him to then pick up the case to try and solve it (which of course he does).
But whilst I was reading it I enjoyed it, and I was also able to put it down and pick it up at any point.
Even I was able to guess the killer about a third of the way into the book whilst not really paying masses of attention which says something.
It was hard to tell if this took place a year and half after Tripwire or a mere few months (Tripwire took place in early June and this took place in mid-fall).
So it was hard to tell if Reacher was with Jodi Garber for a year + or a few months.
What bothered me the most was that in Tripwire Jodi had no problem with Reacher's ways especially when it came to taking a bullet for her.
There were inconsistencies between this book and Tripwire regarding Reacher and Jodi's relationship that bothered me.
My fourth Jack Reacher and very nearly my last.
I really wanted this to be good - I like Jack Reacher books - or at least I have until this one.
I usually get that sort of inkling by book 3 and so I thought this one a safe bet.
so soon in fact I thought I had to be wrong, it couldn't be that obvious.At half way I read the review on Goodreads to see if there was a clue to encourage me to keep reading what by now I was considering an insult to my intelligence.
One hundred pages too long and more holes than a colander. The identity of the killer was telegraphed about half way.
5 stars all round reacher has been given a hard case to crack but the best thing about reacher he thinks and he thinks hard but this time it's the FBI can he out smart them all read it and find out
Running blind = The visitor (Jack Reacher #4), Lee Childعنوان: آخرین مهمان - کتاب 04 - از سری جک ریچر؛ نویسنده: لی چایلد؛ مترجم: محمد عباس آبادی؛ تهران، تندیس، 1394؛ در 543 ص؛ شابک: 9786001821417؛
I just cracked up when the FBI gets all excited 'cause Jack doesn't have pjs.
Now, of course, if he'd be willing to put his own considerable experience in their hands and help them, why, the FBI will only threaten his girlfriend with a horrible death.Seemingly, Jack hasn't much choice.
Special Agents Tony Poulton and Julie Lamarr, a nasty ol' bitch of a profiler, work for Agent-in-Charge Nelson Blake who runs the Serial Crimes Unit in Quantico.
Blake expects Reacher to work with Lamarr and every other word out of her mouth about Jack is "son of a bitch"...yeah, it's direct and with bile.
I was greatly impressed with this mystery novel and Jake Reacher is a very interesting enigma, one that never gets fully fleshed out (at least in this novel) Reacher is a former Army MP (a major) who is brought in by the F.B.I. because someone is murdering women from his past.
I think the most impressive thing about this novel was its fast-paced tempo.
And it never gets lost in Reacher's own personal problems-- There isn't really a dull page in this novel.
That somehow, Lee Child was going to surprise us and come up with a fiendish technique that catch me unawares before the end of the book.Sadly, instead, he decided to stick with the obvious, lazy, and frankly dubious method of killing that I feared it was going to be.
Spoiling an otherwise well written novel.
My annoyance definitely cost him at least a star.Up until that point, I had high hopes, the novel was well written and appeared to have the potential for a complex outcome.
They are usually smart, fun, interesting, and the character is just so damn badass, that they make for great popcorn.
Better than the bad books of most other writers, this one still falls short on most marks.Given, it is fun to see Reacher beat up on bad dudes, which he does with aplomb.
What makes the Reacher books so great is how authentic and plausible the characters seem, and in this novel nobody is believable.Luckily, the following novels shrugged this slump off, so don't give up on the series if you get here and feel like Reacher's lost his shine.
اما نتیجه گیری نهایی چنان ابلهانه است که لذت همین پنجاه صفحه هم زائل میکند.خب، اما ایده اصلی کتاب:علت مرگ قربانیان تا حدی خلاقانه است (تا حدی، چرا که در فارسی ضرب المثلی دقیقا به این شیوه مرگ اشاره مستقیم دارد) اما شیوه کشتار...سه سال قبل از اولین حضور ریچر، مایکل کانلی در کتاب *شاعر* با همین شیوه کشتار تعلیقی نفسگیر ایجاد کرد...اگر استفاده از این ایده، آن هم تا این حد فاحش توسط لی چایلد سرقت ادبی نباشد، یک نادانی ادبیست که خب، عذر بدتر از گناه است.خلاصه اینکه هر چقدر روانشادان؛ ریموند چندلر و دشیل همت و راس مک دانلد سعی کردند یک کتاب جنایی، سوای روایت خوبِ یک جنایت پر پیچ و خم و پر کشش؛ قطعه ای ادبی نیز باشد؛ آقای لی چایلد مرحمت نموده و رشته های اساتید را پنبه کردند و در کلّ کتاب یک جمله تفکر برانگیز یا حتی یک موقعیت دراماتیک ناب که حداقل روان و احساساتِ خواننده را قلقلک دهد موجود نیست.
Really good. First Reacher book I've read and I'm ready for another one.
REVIEW OF AUDIOBOOK; NOVEMBER 21, 2016Narrator: Dick HillI've tried the first three books, DNF book 2 and 3, didn't like the first.
In fact, it's easy enough for someone like Reacher to have hit on it early, too, and even more so the FBI since they are the experts when it comes to serial killers.It may have been a little long but finishing and liking a Reacher book did make my day.
My library has all 21 books in audio and I've already put in a request for Book 5.
It is really difficult to find something 'new' to say about Lee Child's books because they are so terrific individually.
Just completed reading 'Running Blind' and was astounded to learn whom the 'bad guy' turned out to be, and the method used to kill the women whom had left the military.
As in all the Jack Reacher stories, Reacher got intimately involved with a woman (Jodie), but they both moved on and went their own ways in the end....and w/o any ill feelings of one toward the other.
Sadly, I'm on the cusp of having read everything he has written....so Lee needs to get busy and crank out yet another book!!
