https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51138.Brentwood
I have never met a Grace Livingston Hill I DIDN'T like - however I like some a great deal more than others.
Her style is strongly flavored, so many won't like it, but I find her views and morals very consistant with the time in which she wrote.
Her stories made a significant impact in my life, as I read them first as a young teen.
Above and beyond the romance aspect, the heart and soul of her work is about lives of faith.
I realize that in that day, adoption was very different than it is today, but I couldn't get my head around how the main character could bond so quickly to her biological family, all of whom she had never known.Other than that, this was a sweet book.
I liked that the main character was so generous and used her resources to help this struggling family.
I think I am more drawn to the books where all the characters have more limited financial resources and have to be more creative, but this one was satisfying also.
Although she does end up engaged at the end, the book is more about the heroine reconciling with her birth family (and with God, I suppose) than about romance.I particularly enjoyed that the heroine gets to play a “fairy godmother” role.
Their situation had improved but by the time she tracks them down they’re struggling again so she gets to have the fun of helping them.GLH shared a lot of the eugenical ideas of her generation, meaning her treatment of adoption can be really annoying, but in this one the heroine’s birth family and adoptive family were similar enough that it’s not a big deal.
I have read nearly all of Grace Livingston Hill's books, and this is one of my favorites! It includes a family loving each other through hard (tragic) times, generous giving and while the main love in the story is that of the family, it does include a little romance as well. Perhaps not very realistic, but this is what I call a "Cinderella story" ... sort of a fairy tale that ends happily ever after.Another re-read, and I loved this book all over again! It's great to be back to reading some of my old favorites!
I enjoy her simplistic writing style, her ability to speak on lifestyle purity in away that is completely foreign today and may have even been foreign in her own time, her ability to bring redemption in a dark world, and for her simplistic preaching within the story lines.
Marjorie loses a mother and gains a family in this story!
During this time, Marjorie meets Gideon, a young pastor, who helps her come to a realization of being saved and opens her eyes to the truth found in the Scriptures.
It is such a wonderful story of love, family, generosity and biblical truth.
Having only read a few books by Grace Livingston Hill, I wasn't sure what to expect since my mom had liked it, but my sister thought it was just okay.
There were some missing words and commas that bugged me, but I liked the characters and had to keep reading.
While the message of Christ was shared, it didn't come until the second half of the book which left the first half almost completely devoid of prayer, or anything Christian.There is one chapter with several drunk, course men, and one of the main characters in a night club which I didn't really like, but the rest was good.
well this was a rather beautiful story of humility and the importance if intimacy in a family. their was hardly any romance..im not sure why its classified as such. to add, the book got very predictable in so much that i knew what the next chapter would be about. one thing i didnt like is how the main characters male friend was described. i didn't think it was necessary to have him so haughty and self absorbed especially in the light of the fact that he was mentioned to be a good friend. overall a feel good book.
I have read this book many, many, many times and each time I feel as though I could set the world on fire.
I have in my growing up years cut my teeth on reading these books and each one always make me want to go forth and conquer whatever life puts forth for me.
I have not been able to get hold of these books until recently and desire to read them all.
We had 103 of them in our own personal library but the years have taken them out of my hands and I am too old to start purchasing them Strange Proposal next and I can't say which would come next but want to read them all.
As a young girl, I read a lot of Grace Livingston Hill books and can say that Brentwood was one of my favorites. By today's standards and expectations Grace's books may not get a great review, but I rated them as I would have many years ago. Anytime a book leaves an impression, it gets a great rating from me. All Grace's books inspired me to be very selective about the man I would one day choose to marry. That inspiration served me well and I've always been thankful for her main characters who wanted to do the right things.
My former mother-in-law started my love for Grace Livingston Hill's books. They are clean romance stories with the gospel presented in each book. As they were written in the early 1900s, they give a glimpse of a simpler time. Brentwood is one of three Christmas books and I read it every year. It doesn't seem like Christmas to me if I don't read Brentwood, The Christmas Bride, and The Substitute Guest.
This gem has got 1930's slang GALORE. Plus, twins separated at birth! and one of them is rich and comes in to make her birth family's life all better! so unlikely and ridiculous and yet I just love it. Also, bonus points for the doctor who treats the sick family being handsome and winning over the hardened bitter twin.
SmileAnother vehicle for the sweet gospel message, although heroine in this story confronts no real conflicts. But it is a delightful story nonetheless, for who wouldn't smile at the thought of lavishing gifts on loved ones if it was in their power to do so?
This is one of my favorite Grace Livingston Hill books. A great read for Christmas. Forgiveness and placing your faith and trust in God are prominent themes.
A very good book by Ms Hill. A Christian message without being too preachy. A very good story about family and making good choices.
Brentwood reviewThis is my favorite book by Grace Livingston Hill. I have read all her books. This one is full of memorable characters, and Inspiration.
I found this book for free, otherwise I wouldn't bother. I am not a fan of her writing. Too preachy and rather boring.
Hill, Grace Livingston
I really HATED the first boyfriend, Evan.
Just did not care for her writing style.
I love simple, homey books like this.
Charming! A wonderful tale of loss and restoration. The realization of the things that the heart longs for the deepest - to be loved and to belong. Marjorie has always known that she was adopted, but it is not until after the death of her adoptive parents that she learns the truth behind the circumstances. Alone and confused, she seeks out her birth family, not knowing whether her harbored resentments have foundation, or if she will discover instead a place to call home.
Nauseating sweet at timesNauseating sweet at times to show how cute the kids are.... and pages and pages of preaching to the choir and very predictable. I skipped many pages to get back to the actual story. Story without the annoying parts would have been okay.
A treasure Wonderful story of loss, love, and redemption. An uplifting book of joy to read again and again. Truly a five star book
Sweet storyI loved this book. It's a sweet story of the transformation of a family and the young heroine becoming sure of her salvation in Jesus. A lovely, inspiring book
