https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103638.Stop_Time
My favorite passage is Conroy's description of how he used books to escape as a teenager:"I withdrew into myself and let the long months go by, spending my time reading....Night after night I'd lie in bed, with a glass of milk and a package of oatmeal cookies beside me, and read one paperback after another until two or three in the morning.
'I'm a novelist,' he said, and I remember putting the book down and thinking, my God what a beautiful thing to be able to say."When I read that passage for the first time, I realized that I did the same thing growing up.
And yet the words moved me.Because the book is about a childhood, I'm tempted to say that the emotional state the book put me in was either nostalgic or something akin to feeling like an adolescent, but I don't think either of those is right, partly because Conroy's upbringing doesn't seem to have hardly anything in common with my own.So there you go: a nebulous, if not downright worthless review.
Read this book if you like books that transport you emotionally or that are incredibly well written without being at all flashy.
Conroy writes well.
In fact, he writes too well.
So technically proficient, that he became a teacher of writing for many years at the Iowa Writers Workshop.
Yet this was his first and only (so it is said) highly successful book.
There is something Mannerist about it, in its proficiency.The book is a memoir that reads like a novel, broken into a series of short-stories.
It has honesty and depth.
I found the later sections, as Frank turned 15, more compelling than the earlier sections.
He was, however, even as a child, remarkably precocious.Worth familiarizing yourself with this book if, like me, you've never heard of it.
3,7.Vaig gaudir bastant més amb la lectura de Barbarian Days: A Surfing Life del Finnegan. Sembla que Stop-Time és pioner a Estats Units en aquest gènere (narrativa memorística d'es riptors "anònims"), però no m'ha cautivat massa.
The criticism of Conroy is tinged by what the reader can see is Wallace's enormous respect for the writer, and when he calls Stop-Time "arguably the best literary memoir of the twentieth century and is one of the books that first made poor old yours truly want to try to be a writer," I immediately added it to my to-read list.Well, Wallace wasn't lying.
When I picked up Stop-Time, I was completely ignorant of it's contents and was actually looking to get away from memoirs as I had read a string of ho-hum autobiographies(looking at you Hitch-22).
Frank Conroy must surely have been a pioneer, but I have no authoritative assurance of that.Stop-Time is a compelling collection of memories, non-linear and incomplete, recalling Conroy’s years until he entered college.
“I read everything, without selection, buying all the fiction on the racks of the local drugstore....I read very fast, uncritically, and without retention, seeking only to escape from my own life through the imaginative plunge into another.”Conroy warns us in the first chapter:My faith in the firmness of time slips away gradually.
I like this memoir for its meandering qualities, the lack of plot, and the simplest stories told in a highly detailed style. Even the chapter about how he obsessed over yo-yo tricks was engaging and fun. This is a quiet book about growing up in the 40s and 50s and it doesn't need weighty subplots (child abuse, drugs, etc.) like the memoirs were used to seeing the past couple of decades. Even though it was first published in '67, it still feels fresh.
Autobiografía imprescindible para los que les gusten este tipo de libros.
Muy interesante el prólogo con el que se inicia el libro en el que Rodrigo Fresan pone en su lugar temporal este libro para que veamos el valor real de esta biografía sobre todo para darnos cuenta como este libro fue el precedente de muchos otros que llegaron después para seguir la senda que abrió este.
No le doy 5 estrellas porque por desgracia cuando lo he leído mi memoria lectora ya estaba "infestada" por otros de los libros que Fresan nombra en el prologo y eso ha echo que el libro no me haya provocado esa sorpresa de algo nunca leído antes.
I tried hard to like this coming-of-age memoir that has generated so many fans over the years. It does have some beautiful, vivid writing; however, some of it was self-absorbedly (apologies for inventing a word) bizarre and bogged me down.
I read this book after "Mid-Air." I've never checked to see if "Stop-Time" is listed as a memoir, autobiography, or fiction.
But memory is so difficult to separate from imagination for me--even when I recall something with intense precision, someone else who was there recalls it differently--that I read life stories the same way I read all stories: do they ring true?"Stop-Time" is a classic and the man's coming-of-age goes through so many permutations of place, stability and instability (financial and otherwise), it struck me as both unique and universal.
If you haven't read Frank Conroy, you should.
I came to this because they were talking about it on the Literary Disco podcast a while back. It's a remarkable book that works as a memoir but also a coming of age novel. By the end I was seeing it as a direct forerunner of Knausgaard's epic collection which is as high praise as I can imagine. Wonderful reading.
I've owned my copy of "Stop-Time" for over 20 years, leaving it unread until just four days ago.
Every time I took it down from its shelf I put it back, suspicious, as I tend to be of the memoir genre, that anyone who would write several hundred pages about him or herself must be self important and therefore boring.
This time, before I put it back on the shelf, I read the Prologue.
Half way through ( It is only one page) I sat down and before I went to bed that night, I'd consumed two thirds of the book.
It is what makes "Stop-Time" universal.
A memoir that reads like a novel, written with enviable clarity and candour. Perhaps the most harrowing chapter deals with a boys' school and makes Lord of the Flies read like Enid Blyton. If I could nominate six memoirs as contemporary classics, this book would be on it. If you're wondering, the others would be as follows:Unreliable Memoirs, Clive JamesThis Boy's Life, Tobias WolffMemoir, John McGahernThe Unexpected Professor, John CareyOnce in a House on Fire, Andrea Ashworth
2.5 starsThis so-called classic ocming of age memoir didn't impress me. Some of the prose was nice byt the structure of plain exposition with no revelation was puzzling. Maybe it was groundbreaking in its time (1964) but it did little for me.
David Foster Wallace said this book made him want to be a writer, so I'm in.
Il traduttore è bravo, qui lui non c'entra, è proprio l'autore che mi fa sorridere: "Jean, uomo di una bellezza gallica quasi insostenibile... (???) Aveva un viso dall'ossatura straordinariamente fine e proporzionata, appena più piccola della grandezza naturale (???), cosa che ne accentuava la delicatezza. Una testa di perfezione ellenica, ma priva di elleniche effeminatezze (???). I tratti somatici erano francesi e virili". Boh. Pregiudizi razziali?
A strong, stoical memoir, Stop-Time, published in 1967, recounts Conroy’s childhood and adolescence placed inside two narrow contemporary frames: accounts of reckless to the point of suicide/homicide driving from London to the countryside.
The prologue and epilogue are both very brief but reveal an adult who should be responsible and perhaps even happy, but clearly is otherwise disturbed.
Madness runs, to borrow from “Arsenic and Old Lace,” in Conroy’s family.
The manic London driving suggests that the narrative’s near happy ending—young Conroy, righting his life, arrives at Haverford College—is, if anything, irrelevant.
Covering the period up to his entrance into Haverford University this memoir creates a world pain and joy and the often awkward encounters of a young boy with real life.
It was around this time that I first thought of becoming a writer."Conroy was probably retaining more of his reading than he claims for, after a year in school in Paris, he was accepted into Haverford University.
The memoir is filled with flights of imagination that demonstrate the potential author hidden in a young boy whose exploits and adventures are as exciting as most fiction that I have encountered.
The memoir focuses on creating an identity for oneself without having a role model.
In a way, it's almost an existentialist bildungsroman.It's well-written and doesn't spare detail to court sympathy.
The narrator isn't always likeable and he doesn't attempt to justify or apologize for his actions.
Over the course of the memoir, the narrator--the author--emerges as a deeply broken man, unapologetic for past transgressions and callous in his relations with women.
That the reader is given such a view into the author's motivations and responses is a testament to the writing itself.Overall, the book is well-written but doesn't particularly stand out.
La storia è una parziale autobiografia di Frank Conroy: scrittore, critico e direttore per quasi vent'anni del famoso workshop di scrittura presso l'università dello Iowa.
Un padre spesso ricoverato e ben presto scomparso, una madre evanescente e un patrigno volubile, nonostante tutto questo Frank riuscirà a costruirsi una sua stabilità, minacciata anche dai continui spostamenti sull'asse New York – Fort Lauderdale.
Un ottimo romanzo che parla di ricordi e un po' insegna anche come si faccia a ricordare, che non si lascia prendere la mano da facili e scontati sentimentalismi, preferendo siano i fatti, i luoghi e le sensazioni ad essi legati a parlare prima di tutto il resto.
Definitely a fun, easy read.
Frank Conroy's autobiography reads like a novel..no wait, it reads more like a collection of short stories, each little vignette very well self contained, but more interesting for all the other stories that have gone before it.
Characters will show up for no more than two or three pages and are never seen again, but in that time he describes the most interesting thing about them in casual detail, and you end up feeling like you know them better than some author's characters that were described in half a book.
Very neat, very fun.
While this book gets better reviewed by most than "Body and Soul", to me it stands most interesting as a series of footnotes and behind the scenes explanations of that book. The fractured sense of time in the book may have been innovative for its time (not really sure about that, just a thought) but the lack of a central story to this memoir keeps it from being great (to me).In spite of the 3 star, I would still recommend it as a must read, but if you're going to read one Frank Conroy book, read Body and Soul.
On the campus of my alma mater, near the front doors of the library sits a sculpture of a young man, hamburger in one hand and a book in the other. He's on chapter 8 of Frank Conroy's Stop-Time. That was my only reason for reading this book. Why I waited nine years after graduating to finally get to this book is beyond me.
What an excellent book. I loved the way it was written and I loved how the story was told. The only thing that I think should be improved was the organization of the events. I think the movement from past to future was a bit jarring.
This, like Catcher in the Rye, is a book worth reading every 10 years. So here we are again.
I kept trying and trying to let the text take over, but it just wasn't happening. It is well written, but something about it I never found compelling.
Frank Conroy's masterful ode to music, art, books, glasses of milk, and juvenile tomfoolery.
Sad and lovely. Lovely and sad.
My disappointment in this, along with I Know Why a Caged Bird Sings, two classics of 20th-century memoirs, confirm that memoirs, no matter how good, just don't hold much appeal for me.
Stop-Time by Frank Conroy1967Frank Conroy was director of the Iowa Writer’s Workshop for 18 year from 1987 – 2005 and won a Grammy Award as a jazz pianist.
There are a couple flash-forwards to a time when Conroy lived in England, got drunk in weekends in London and drove home through the countryside in his Jaguar at high rates of speed.
Conroy took great pleasure in being the last boy to return.Lack of any parental oversight, rebelliousness, and lack of restraint on Conroy’s part are themes that run through the book.
