https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129645.Cocktails_for_Three
FROM THE BLURB Roxanne: glamorous, self-confident, with a secret lover -- a married manMaggie: capable and high-achieving, until she finds the one thing she can't cope with -- motherhoodCandice: honest, decent, or so she believes -- until a ghost from her past turns up...'In Cocktails for Three', Madeleine Wickham combines her trademark humor with remarkable insight to create an edgy, romantic tale of secrets, strangers, and a splash of scandal. The Cocktail Club: Maggie Phillips, or Mrs. Drakef
Roxanne: glamorous, self-confident, with a secret lover -- a married manMaggie: capable and high-achieving, until she finds the one thing she can't cope with -- motherhoodCandice: honest, decent, or so she believes -- until a ghost from her past turns up...'In Cocktails for Three', Madeleine Wickham combines her trademark humor with remarkable insight to create an edgy, romantic tale of secrets, strangers, and a splash of scandal.
The friendship was as true as the cocktail menu every month.
The quality unquestionable, the satisfaction unrivaled.Like everything else in life, change was inevitable.
I love when Madeliene writes as Sophie Kinsella, so I thought I'd give this book a go.Big mistake.I've had it out from the library for over a month and I'm finally finished with it.This one was truly phoned in.Anyone that couldn't guess what Heather is up to or about to be up to almost from the instant she is introduced, isn't paying attention to the story.Then there are the characters.
If it weren't such a quick read, once I convinced myself to go on reading it, it would have been truly miserable.I highly recommend Madeliene/Sophie's other books, but not this one.
Honestly, I love Madeleine Wickham when she writes as Sophie Kinsella because the books are light and they usually make me laugh.
But this is the second go that I've had with Madeleine Wickham and, even though logically I know it's the same person, I just think that she loses some of her mojo when she's not writing as Sophie Kinsella.
This book was a perfect example of that - she had three characters that were okay, but the front says that its "deliciously funny...
I picked this one up from my friend Dani(new to goodreads) the snippet on the cover proclaims the book to be "deliciously wicked and witty and funny" or something to that effect.
Dani gave me her review before lending it out, "it's not deliciously witty and funny but it's pretty good.
It was not as polished or funny(actually I didn't find it all funny) as the Shopaholic series and I wasn't particularly invested in any of the characters(although having been a victim of a psychopath myself once I identified with Candice, the wide eyed innocent) but if you enjoy Kinsella's work and want something a little darker, a little less well written, then this book is for you.
It wasn’t until about two thirds into the novel that I even enjoyed it at all, and I felt myself wavering between being excited by the story and feeling helplessly bored by it.I think, as I just mentioned, my main reason for struggling with Cocktails for Three is that I didn’t find any of the female leads likable.
I appreciate that, and while I didn’t love the story or the characters, I found the novel interesting enough and was overall happy and occupied while reading it.This is certainly a hard one to rate… I think I’ll definitely give another novel by Wickham a chance in the future, to see if they all adhere to this slightly different style…but I probably will pick up another Kinsella novel first!❥❥❥.5 (out of 5)
she deviously turns roxanne & maggie against heather & tells her boss that candice is bullying her at work.
maggie decides to return to work & move back to london.roxanne notices that ralph is losing weight & looking haggard.
roxanne is completely wrecked by this & finally confesses her affair to maggie & candice.
roxanne gives it to maggie for her family to live in while maggie goes back to work.when maggie takes over at the magazine, she swiftly uncovers all the evidence of heather's treachery against candice & candice is swiftly reinstated.

Three successful young women in the magazine business meet on the first day of every month for cocktails in a London bar and reveal secrets that could undermine their lives and relationships. This book reminded me of my friends and I which is maybe why I loved it. I appreciated how each woman was at a different phase in her life and the problems each faced. I highly recommend this book for any age. It was funny and the characters were relatable. Enjoy it with your favorite cocktail.
Loved the story .. The three friends , their friendship, their issues and the writing. And was surprised at the end to discover that the author was Sophie Kinsella writing in another name.
Editor Maggie fears imminent birth although supportive husband Giles likes isolated rural acreage.
Freelancer Roxanne hides Mr Married with Kids.
Feels more down to earth than some Cinderella gets the prince marketed in same niche.(view spoiler)[Heather forges expense receipts to ruin Candice, who ignores warnings from others, including besotted neighbor Ed. Maggie misinterprets help from mother-in-law Paddy as criticism.
Roxanne's lover, Londoner publisher Ralph Allsopp, dying of cancer, urges her toward job offer from infatuated island hotel tycoon.
We know Ed will console Candice, thankfully he is not revealed to be fabulously rich rescuing "prince".
Maggie returns to work, exonerates her.
(hide spoiler)]
i think i've read everything sophie kinsella's written, but this is my first foray into madeleine wickham.
it is not, as my husband assumed from the title, about a threesome, but about three best friends who meet at a bar once a month for cocktails.
each is hiding a deep secret from the others but in the end, they all come out in a cathartic rush of relief and friendship.as another reviewer pointed out, the cover advertises "cocktails for three" as "deliciously witty and funny." funny it is not.
you could read this on the plane or on the beach or in the bathtub and have yourself a fine old time.
As much as I love all the books Wickham writes as Sophie Kinsella, I have found that I just don't like anything she write under her actual name.
This book was horribly depressing from the get-go.
Another character just had a baby and is dealing with postpartum depression.
And the third character has been in a relationship with a married man for 6 years, always hoping he'll leave his wife, only to have it all end when he finds out he has cancer.
It wasn't worth wading through anymore of this depressing and un-enjoyable crap in the hopes that it might all end happily.
Aidan loaned me this book. I think I may have traded for my Jenny McCarthy collection, though unintentionally. I liked it, then I didn't because it was way too predictable, but now I like it again. It is about 3 friends, one a new mom, one a likely alcoholic who is her boss's mistress and the other being taken advantage of by a blast from the past.
The book was cute except I can't stand when pregnant ladies drink cocktails. Yuck!
When Candice meets and old friend from school, a girl who’s family was ruined because of shady actions Candice‘s father committed, everything that follows is very predicable and feels more like a High School Teen drama than something happening between adults.Candice feels guilty for something her father did, though she herself was still a kid and had nothing to do with it, and tries to make it up to the girl, Heather.
Ze zijn elkaars beste vriendin maar als puntje bij paaltje komt is het blijkbaar toch ieders voor zicht.
Roxanne is al 6 jaar samen met Ralph maar op het moment dat ze denkt dat ze van minnares naar partner gaat gaat maakt hij gans de relatie gedaan.
Als dan nog blijkt dat hij zijn terminale ziekte voor haar verborgen heeft valt zij in een zwart gat.
Candice komt Heather tegen, een kennis uit het verleden die heeft geleden onder het gedrag van haar vader en zij gaat het allemaal goed maken.
althans dat denkt ze toch.
This was an alright book overall. The story wasn't great and was pretty predictable. The plot gave me the feels of a lifetime movie.I was loving all of Sophie Kinsella's novels and decided to follow up with her Madeleine Wickham works. This was the first of those that I read, and it set me off to not really planning on reading anymore of her works.
I was looking for a light, quick read and got that, but unfortunately, it was very predictable and I never could connect with the 3 main characters. Skimmed the last half.
Heel leuk verhaal voor de jonge, ambitieuze vrouw.
Bit different to Kinsella’s other work, 3 different main characters, 3 stories, 3 very different outcomes... I enjoyed it!
I thought the book was just ok. It started out slow but definitely got more interesting towards the middle and end- enough to keep me from putting it down and starting something new.
Okay, whatever, I get it, and I get her (or least I thought her character was developed enough for me to get her) but I never like the girl who is having an affair.
I rarely enjoy the child bearing women in books I read (as I have no children, thus I cannot relate) but there was something about her that I really connected with.
But the part of the book I disliked the most was at the end when they BAPTIZED MAGGIE'S BABY WITH A COCKTAIL.
I mean do not get me wrong, I like a cocktail as much as the next person but NEVER, EVER will I baptize my baby in them.
I was so disappointed in this book. I really like Sophie Kinsella, but this was my first book under Madeline Wickham. I didn't like any of the characters. The plot took a very different twist than I was expecting from just judging it by the cover.
so i just read the first half of the book, without skipping any pages, then grew tired of Heather than skipped most of Heather part, then resume reading all when Candice realize that Heather was nothing but a scumbag i.e when Roxanne secret lover, Ralph (i forget the name already) died from cancer.and i totally opposed to the fact that Maggie wouldnt return back to her job just because she is having baby.
i was this closed to not finished reading the book and pick up other books to read when i jumped to the half end (as if mentioned earlier, the part where Roxanne secret lover died.) here, as if they just wake up from their sleep, the character realize everything.
Books by Madeleine Wickham (the real name of Sophie Kinsella) are the types of books you read when you're lying in the sun on holiday.
The characters in Wickham's books are always rich with pretentious names (I mean noone is actually called Giles) who are hard to relate to.
Their unlikely situations always pan out so perfectly that it's hard to connect or really lose yourself in the narrative.I love books to make me feel something.
I've read three books by Sophie Kinsella writing as Madeleine Wickham but I'm not sure I'll be picking up another one any time soon.
"Cocktails for Three" is one of those books that was just made for summer.....read it by the pool while sipping a strawberry daquiri.
You may know Wickham better by her pen name, Miss Sophie Kinsella, the queen of British chick lit.This is the story of three best friends...each one with a secret.
When a new girl enters the picture closely tied to Candice, will it tear the three friends apart for good or or bring them even closer together?I have said before that Wickham (AKA...Sophie Kinsella) is a master at "intelligent" chick lit.
This is a great book to read when you want to get away from it all.
After several girlfriends let me in on the fact that one of my favorite authors (Sophie Kinsella) was actually a pen name for Madeleine Wickham and that Madeleine had various novels published, I was eager to read them!
Cocktails for three is the first of Madeleine's novels that I've read and I devoured it wholeheartedly.Cocktails for Three follows the lives of three women who work together and are friends.
Throughout the course of the book the womens' lives are turned upside down and their friendships are tested.
This novel is jolly good fun and I loved it so much that I've already started reading another Wickham book, the Gatecrasher.
So far I am already swept away by the main characters: Candace, Maggie and Roxanne.
Three thirty-something women friends meet once a month at an upscale bar in London.
EACH has a secret that is about to unfold and weave the story together...SK a.k.a is a master at sharp contemporary dialogue, especially of women's characters.
I still vividly remember many of her books because the characters walk off the pages into the realm or reality.
I can tell this book will be a quick read.
the friends are far from perfect, yet, with lovable qualities.
three secrets, three friends...almost like three short stories!
A friend of mine gave me this book for xmas, and I finally got around to reading it a couple weeks ago.
I found that some of the characters could have been a little more fleshed out, and that the ending seemed a bit raced and a little too wrapped in a neat bow for my taste.
I also think it could have been more scandalous because that's how the back of the book read.
And also a bit more mystery to it.
Or maybe I am being too harsh because I found the character of Candice to bloody annoying to read much about.
The best thing about this book was the writing nothing particularily jumps out at me for the positives.i couldnt connect with any of the characters, i like they all had thier flaws but their was nothing special they was just bland for me.
There were themes in this book i did not like and there was a couple of moments that i wont mention becuase spoilers but it kind of disgusted me.I could put this book down and nothing really made me want to pick it up to keep on reading the plot was just meh.
ive been told sophie kinsella usually writes really funny books this didnt make me laugh.
