https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/616197.Home_for_a_Bunny
Adorable
I read this several thousand times growing up, and just re-read it as an adult for the first time. It's considerably less suspensful than I remembered it being. (Spoiler: The best place for a rabbit to live isn't a bird's nest or a frog's bog but in a rabbit hole).A warren? Is that what you call rabbit den/holes? This book doesn't say. The art is by Garth Williams, who wrote and drew the anti-living-in-sin book "The Rabbit's Wedding," which I did not realize until just this weekend.
Fond memories of my mother reading this to me. I thought the ending was so beautiful. Also, my mom would always say "Home for a bunny" when we were done with our errands.
I absolutely adored this story and the illustrations as a young child. To this day I think I can still recite almost the entire book.
MWB typically knocks it out of the park when bunnies are involved. Just thinking about The Runaway Bunny gets me misty-eyed. But this rabbit romp reaches and falls flat. (view spoiler)[The best home for a bunny isn't with a bird, or a groundhog, or a frog. It's with a bunny! Holy cow! Next you'll tell me that I should plug my USB device into a USB port. (hide spoiler)]
This was my favorite book as a child. My mother read it to me about 1,000 Times. My father read it to me about 2,000 times. I had it memorized. My son's loved it too. With a celebration of spring, a wonderful story mixed with beautiful illustrations by Garth Williams, this book is a must-have for all young children.
Very cute. Picture and story from my childhood now I'm able to share with my girls in a lovely large golden book format. Perfect for spring all season long and a good add on bunny theme around Easter.
Sweet little story. Pleasant to read over (and over and over ...)
Margaret Wise Brown words + Garth Williams illustrations = Love
Great book AND perfect for emerging readers
This is a charming story in which a young bunny finds himself in Spring looking for a home.
There are some other books like this one out there that seem so familiar and catch my attention a lot better.
At the same time, though, there are plenty of chances to allow children to help on making animal sounds while you read.
Cute bunnies, big frogs and a nicely green background with other detailed animals will bring the reader right into the rabbit's world.
A charming read but one that may be better suited to a bit older readers rather than younger children.
Copyright 1956. The illustrations are beautifully drawn by Garth Williams. Tale of a bunny wandering through the countryside looking for a home (and a friend!). Preschool & under. A favorite read in my house back in the day!
Little Golden Books – Home for a Bunny Nice to return to these first reads of mine.
I liked it because the bunny found a home and he also found somebody to live with.
One of Katharina's early childhood favorites
An almost poetic easy and quick read that can be read at the beginning of Spring many times.
This is a great book for springtime and talking about animals and their homes.
Another Margaret Wise Brown hit in our house!
Entirely a sentimental review on my part
A beautiful picture book from Margaret Wise-Brown if a sweet little bunny’s search for a home.
Home for a Bunny is a story about a bunny looking for a place to live. He searches all over the woods, but eventually decides to move in with another bunny.
This is a quick story that involves a rabbit and what he encounters along the road. He sees all types of animals that explain their living conditions. Everything from birds in a nest to frogs in a pond. It is not until the end when he finds a friend that he can share a home with. I enjoyed the illustrations and it was fun to read.
One of our family's favorites. A fun read. A great choice for every child's bookshelf.
Margaret Wise Brown, Home for a Bunny (Golden Press, 1956)Margaret Wise Brown is, of course, best-known for Goodnight Moon.
If you're familiar with Brown past that, it's probably because of The Runaway Bunny, and I have often wondered how popular that book would still be were pictures of it not cleverly introduced in Goodnight Moon.
Home for a Bunny may well be more indicative of her work than Goodnight Moon.
The illustrations are quite wonderful, and in keeping with the Golden Books aesthetic of the fifties; the bean is much fonder of the pictures than the words, and to be honest, so is dad.
My review of Mr. Dog earned a "caution - spoilers" red flag.So, let's forget the plot of this "bunny" book, such as it is, and hop right to the reasons -- two, of them -- you should buy it and read it aloud to your child,your children, your sweetheart, or anyone else you care about, yourself included.
1) Margaret Wise Brown wrote it.
2) Garth Williams illustrated it.
Margaret Wise Brown had a "thing" for rabbits, and no one illustrates them cuter, cuddlier and more appealingly (from a child's perspective) than Garth Williams.
Read during Preschool Class Visit on 5/9/12: http://storytimesecrets.blogspot.com/...Read at Preschool Story Time on 4/12/13: http://storytimesecrets.blogspot.com/...Read at Preschool Story Time on 8/22/13: http://storytimesecrets.blogspot.com/...Read at Moms Club Story Time on 4/28/16: http://storytimesecrets.blogspot.com/...
Home for a bunny is a wonderful tale about a little bunny looking for a house to make his home. This picture book is repetitive, so even a child of two after a view readings will be able to start repeating the story line or by looking at the pictures.I used this book in preschool with a Neighborhood theme. We discussed that there are a variety of houses but the one you choose becomes your home.I love love this picture book!
This Little Golden Book has been in our home for as long as I can remember. It originally cost $.89 and was copyrighted in 1961. As a bunny hops along in the countryside, he encounters many other animals; a robin and her babies in the tree, a frog in the bog, a groundhog in a log but could not figure out where the perfect home for a bunny might be. Finally, he runs into another bunny and figures out the perfect home for a bunny. A darling little story with beautiful pictures!
This is the first book I read to my eldest back in 1986. It was Christmas and I enjoyed spending time reading the tale of a bunny looking for a new home. My daughter loved the bunny drawings. I also got hooked on Ms. brown's books. I have read many throughout the years. I hope to read them to my grandchildren.
Have I read this book before today? Possibly since this is a Golden Book in an oversize format. This is such a wonderful story about a rabbit looking for a home. And the illustrations by Garth Williams are captivating. Although I tend to use a lot of newer books, this is an old favorite that I will offer during a storytime this summer, I think!
