https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58438.Armageddon
A combination of pan-optical research and an almost perfect presentation of stereotypical characters makes this book a near masterpiece of "how to ruin an exceptionally researched work through horrible writing" genre.I picked up "Armageddon" as it covered the "Berlin Airlift" event amongst other things.Initially, I was delighted by the amount of information Uris started ladling out, and I settled-in for a scrumptious 800 page long brain feeding orgy.
Moreover, the characters started sounding like Yoda, but I still persisted, as I really really wanted to read about the Berlin Airlift.
Berlin Airlift came and went, and Uris made sure that I didn't know who did what.
I personally think this is his best novel. It caused me to to read up on the German occupation and the Berlin airlift.
It is the only book that truly describes what it was like in Germany after the war." (And, oh, by the way, hurry, because I want to lend it to someone else after you.) Born in Bonn in 1938, my M-I-L lived through many of these events before emigrating to the US in the late 40's.
There's not a lot of "jolly, happy, ho-ho-ho" in here.This is, however, the first book about the Allied occupation of Germany I've read, and I was very pleasantly surprised by both its altitude and its depth.
I guess I'll have to read a non-fiction book about the Berlin Airlift to figure out what's what.
After lying in the house for fifteen plus years, a cover-less copy with all-brown pages and stinking, I finally picked this up to read after getting newly interested in the Cold War.Armageddon deals from the period of WW2 in Europe (around early-1944) through to the Berlin Airlift during the Soviet Blockade of West Berlin (1948-49).
This was the part, upon reading, that I thought I was reading an amazing book.However, the later 2 parts (the next 350 pages), were the pages in which I felt the story dragged a bit, some characters (the probable protagonists) disappeared for a few pages, some new ones came up.
Plus the subject matter, Berlin in the immediate aftermath of WWII, pretty much disqualified the book from the race for the Feel-Good Book of 1964.Then I proceeded to talk the hubby's ear off about what the book taught me about the bizarre politics of postwar Berlin and the Airlift that kept the city from slipping into total oblivion.
So I clearly got something from reading it.
Most notable was the book's prolonged, strange, and ultimately troubling struggle with reconceiving the idea of "The German" and "The German Mind" in a post-Nazi world.
The characters were the ones struggling, but I got the sense that Uris himself was exploring the question.
But maybe that's the English major in me being all holier-and-more-politically-correct-than-thou.
Either way, it was a valuable reading experience.
Mr. Uris had the unique talent of weaving many themes into a single and understandable book.
Perhaps the talent of rescuing readers on the cliff is what made him one of the best authors of our time.
How did he manage a slew of characters, animosities between countries and races, doomed relationships between races because of guilt by association, logistical issues wheretofore never known to man, and still leave his readers captivated?Did he go Hollywood too early in his career?
My truth about him is that there is always more than meets the eye in his novels, and 'filler' is not what makes his books lengthy.A posthumous thank you to Mr. Uris for a Good Read.
The problem is, I never got to the part where the main character actually arrived in Berlin.
After reading 30% of the book, padded with pages upon pages of history text type instruction on the psyche of the German mind, the Russian soldier, about Stalin and communism in Russia, was about to stick pins in my eyes.
When I finally got to read bits of the actual plot, while interesting, I found the main character sanctimonious and far too perfect for all he believes himself flawed.
There are a lot of stereotype characters.
This is only my second novel by Leon Uris, having read and loved Mila 18 a few years ago.
Uris is a fine story teller with a penchant for the dramatic and slavish attention to historical detail.
I suppose certain attitudes depicted in the novel felt a little outdated in this day and age, but at the same time authentic of the times.
Regardless, this is a fine effort that inspired me to seek further reading material focusing on the events surrounding the Berlin airlift (the subject of this novel), and perhaps more importantly, reinforced my commitment to read more of the author :)
I read it it with great enthusiasm as it was history which occured during my lifetime and in fact, my Army time was extended over the Berlin Wall Crisis in 1961.
you have never read a book by Leon Uris you are denying yourself a great literary experience as his writings are all historical in nature and very well researched .
I have read several Leon Uris books and all are excellent.
Armageddon, A Novel of Berlin, takes us through the occupation of Germany after World War II and gives us great insight into the mind of Nazi German and the mind of the soldiers of the USSR.
Leon Uris creates characters and weaves their person stories through the historical events beginning with the end of WWII and proceeding through the difficulties with the Soviet Union blockading Berlin.
He masterfully uses his characters to illustrate the difficulties that come when the victor in a conflict must eventually learn to live with the people they have beaten.
The story also highlights the documented belligerent behavior of the Soviets as was typical throughout the Cold War.This book works on so many different levels.
I gave up on this book. I couldn't read on... He groups everyone into these neat and tidy lil boxes- Americans are heroes. Germans are scum. Poles are rowdy drunks. Nazis are Pagans. Russians are animals. On another note, before I got sick of the above, I enjoyed reading about WWII from this viewpoint. There was a lot of wonderfully descriptive details about what happened. Too bad, I would have liked to finish it. Perhaps I'll try again someday when I'm less politically correct and more able to stomach the crap.
I am a Uris fan - I loved Trinity and Exodus. But, I was very disappointed with Armageddon. The characters seemed flat and wooden, the dialogue stilted and predictable. Great story, poor execution.I soldiered on until, by chance, i happened across Wouk's The Caine Mutiny on my bookshelf. The contrast was stunning: instead of wading through lifeless prose, I was treated to Wouk's honed descriptions, vibrant characters and hair-raising action.I was unable to finish Armageddon.
I am a fan of everything Leon Uris has written so this review may be a bit biased. This book is about Berlin right after WW2 and the fight for control of the city. He addresses the events from an American and Russian points of view, which is a bit different from any similar books I've read before. This was one of the saddest books of his in terms of the personal lives of the characters, but somehow still uplifting.
Armageddon, Leon Uris
Didn't finish. Quit at 40% complete. I didn't like the over-dramatic dialogue and the very black-and-white portrayal of the various nationalities: Americans, very very good; Nazis, very bad; Communists very very bad. I realize this is an older book and it definitely reflects the attitude of the time. Normally I don't have a problem with this, but combined with the stilted dialogue and the lack of any characters I cared about, I just didn't want to waste any more time on it.
Absolutely the best book I have read in years. I had no idea about what it was like in Germany at the end of WWII and knew nothing about the Berlin Airlift. This is a HUGE undertaking to read, over 800 pages, but so worth it. I haven't put it down since I started to read it 3 days ago. You will smile, laugh and cry. An absolutely great book - I think this is Leon Uri's masterpiece.
The novel begins with Sean O’Sullivan, whose brother Liam was killed by the Germans, being sent to Germany in 1944.
Plus the writing is exquisite as is the construction of the plot.The book ends with the ending of the Russian blockade and the Airlift, signaling the beginning of the Cold War, aptly described by a General’s report.
Even if one has read many novels and nonfiction about the aftermath of World War II, a reader may be able to find additional eye-openers in this book, which is close to 700 pages.
In what was to be the final push by the Russians to drive the Allies out of Berlin, all ground supply routes were cut off to most of the city.
Can’t bring in enough of a certain item because of the weight?
Some will say this book is too rah-rah America.
I seriously doubt that we could do such a thing again.Edited to add - the 70th anniversary of the Airlift was commemorated in Germany just yesterday: Allied partners pay tribute on Berlin Airlift's 70th Anniversary  Child of Berlin Airlift tells her story
Notwithstanding Mr. Uris' fictional portrayals, he demonstrates time and again the comprehensive research he accomplished in creating this novel.
Notwithstanding the fictional creation of his characters, they were not only believable, but authentic human beings with plausible plights which most likely occurred during that time period in that part of the world.
Put another way, the book is so convincing, the reader feels a sympathetic relationship with the characters involved.
By the end of the novel, a perceptive reader will have increased his/her understanding of that time period, and finishing the book will cause a poignant loss.
It focuses on the relationship between the victorious conquerors (Americans, French, British and Russians) and their former Nazi enemies and becomes a true battle between the Allies and Communist U.S.S.R over coveted Berlin.
It is a story of redemption as the Germans rebuild their country, try to salvage their tarnished reputation, and fight a communist regime that is worse than Hitler.
There are so many absorbing individual stories intertwined throughout the dense narrative.
While some technical details (logistics, plane and flight specs, etc.) were mildly tedious, they were entirely necessary to understand the vast effort that went into supplying a blockaded Berlin and keeping its citizens alive.
This is a first rate historical novel.
It's not as well known as Uris' other books, but perhaps it should be.
It is NOT an action thriller.
The author creates a small stable of fictional characters to move the reader through the early days of the allied occupation of post World War II Germany en route to the main event - the post war political fight over the partition of Berlin.
This book is a good reminder of just how ugly the cold war could be, and why it was fought.
Those interested in doing their homework will find that Uris got his facts just right.
You can dig for historical errors, but they are few.
It's a very good read.
The terrific first half inverts the standard WWII dynamic by placing the conquered Germans as withered husks to be exploited by foreign powers, starved and raped by occupying forces, and almost pitied.
Then in the second half, the board gets set for the long chess-game showdown between the US and the Soviets.
That should be the best part of the book, yet it felt uneven and difficult to appreciate how much was really at stake - in part because the characters introduced toward the end are one-dimensional, and in part because the author gives little insight into the Soviet side of affairs.
I found that this was not necessarily pleasant reading due to the subject matter.
That being said, I was drawn to the story to learn more about this place and time.
One knows about WWII, but what happened in Germany after the war is rarely focused on.
Mr. Uris uses a cast of characters to explain some of the human dilemmas that occupation after the war created for both American, German and Russian military and civilian populations.
I thought for students of history, this was a worthwhile read.
This was the first Uris book I ever read. I picked it up because I am very interested in WWII history. I was not disappointed. The character development is great. And he is not afraid to kill characters just because the reader has fallen in love with them. Armageddon is a novel about a people struggling to find redemption in the shadow of the horrors they have committed while suffering the torments inflicted by their conquerors. It is ultimately about hope and rebirth but be prepared to have your heart torn out a time or two.
A fascinating read that kept me coming back night after night. The last 100 pages, however, seemed rushed and little disjointed from the rest of the book. Uris' research skills and his talent of weaving historical facts into his fictional storyline are amazing. For some reason, I had trouble connecting with several of the major characters. So, at the end, when everything comes to a head, the emotional "oomph" of the events was really lacking.
Hey all you kids who don't know anything about or "the why" of the Cold War. Read and learn from this little slice of it!Great book.
It follows the activities of the Military Government of Germany (an office of the US Army; OMG Germany) in its mission to de-Nazify Germany, rebuild Germany, and remold Germans' thinking more towards Democracy and less towards totalitarianism.
The story begins with the planning to carry out OMG's mission followed by the setting up of a probably fictitious German city Rombaden near a concentration camp.
The egalitarian attitudes of the military of the times brought new technology to bear to allow sufficient freight to move to Berlin to sustain the city.
The book also attempted to show how German and American attitudes and culture differ and the problems it created for de-Nazification.
So just know that going in.The historical fiction his is very well researched and if you enjoy learning LOTS AND LOTS about the details of the planes flown during this part of the war, and all the details of the strategy of trying to save Berlin during the end of the war and the next few post-war years, then you are in for a real treat.
I had absolutely no idea of how the allies miraculously saved the German people after the war, and particularly in the effort to save Berlin from becoming completely taken over by the Russians.
Armageddon tells the story of post-war Germany, specifically Berlin, and the beginning of the Cold War. Modern readers know the broad strokes of what happened, but the book is full of jaw-dropping details that bring to life the what-ifs that led to a generation of Communist domination in Eastern Europe.
It sounds like meeting the challenges of the airlift led to all sorts of innovations and advances in flight and strategic planning.There are more documents and lists than typical of fiction, but around chapter 30 we begin to get into the moral dilemma of how a conqueror can behave without losing his soul.
As I was reading it, I remembered 2 scenes - one involving a puppy and the other being the Red Army entrance into Berlin after the city was conquered.
But, that was all I could remember, unlike some of his other novels.This tale follows - mainly- the American and Soviet Union's style of governance of Berlin at the close of WWII.
I wonder what Uris would write about that now.By far, this is not one of the author's stronger books - illustrated by the fact I could not really remember it.
