https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7224904-lee-s-lieutenants
This 3 volume series is for the reader with a particular interest in the Civil War and an appreciation for strategic and tactical particulars.
This work, like his other two massive biographies ( 7 volume work on Washington and 4 volume work on Lee) are exhaustively researched and when the evidence is inconclusive, Freeman so footnotes.Lee's Lieutenants tells the story of subordinate Confederate commanders from their perspective.
( At least through the first 15 months of the war).
Egos, poor communication, jealousy of rank, difficulty in executing complex unit coordinated maneuvers, and prima donnas plagued the Confederacy high command, along with examples of skill, courage, and fortitude.I am eager to begin the last two volumes.
While Freeman does an excellent job in recounting battles and other operations, his unique contribution is to recount and evaluate the performance of the Confederate senior officer corps in conducting operations in Virginia during the Civil War. Command and control of military operations in mid-19th Century was very much different from today, and the talents required for successful generalship were very different as well.
For example, one very desirable quality among Civil War generals was the ability to understand and be able to describe how terrain could be used in a military operation.
This is volume one of a three volume series, telling the story of the Eastern Theater of the Civil War through the eyes of the various Confederate commanders engaged.
This first volume covers the beginning of the war - through the 7 Days Battles.
Freeman has a definite Southern perspective in his writing.
He gives examination of the events through the eyes of the various commanders.
There are lots of footnotes in the text to help explain situations.
It is a very complete account.I would recommend this book and the remainder of Freeman's series as an excellent study resources for any Civil War lovers' collection.
In 1942, Douglas Freeman published volume 1 of a three volume history of Civil War Confederate field leaders. Volume 1 covers the major battles in 1861-2 from Manassas to Malvern Hill in Virginia. The writing provides valuable insights about war tactics as well as geographical features and organizational challenges affecting battlefield decisions. It contains important references for serious students of Civil War history.
Classic work of Civil War history with unusual focus on individual Confederate military officers rather than campaigns or battles. By design, there is little attention to strategic details or political developments. Must read for every serious student of the war but no substitute for works of Catton, McPherson or Foote.
The best book I've read on the Civil War, or the whole trilogy is. The "hero" of the book is Stonewall Jackson, but it's really a biography of all Lee's subordinates. He writes from the viewpoint of whatever general is engaged in action, and tells the battle as they saw it.
Good heavens. This exercise in goodreads takes me way back. I read this set of volumes and R.E. Lee in high school, purchasing the two sets from earnings as a caddy on a golf course. It took years to get over my adulation of R. E. Lee to be able to criticize him.
Somewhere out there is a one-volume condensed version of this trilogy. Avoid it like smallpox. That's akin to buying a one-volume condensed version of the Lord of The Rings.
Remarkable detail and clarity.
