https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57936.Seven_Pillars_of_Wisdom
Under the most arduous conditions, Lawrence found time for keen analysis: he applied that analysis to the differing forces that were interdependent within the Arab culture and did so with out betraying his loyalty to all or surrendering his loyalty to any.
Lawrence acted upon his dream 'with open eyes' and made it happen.
More importantly we are given insight into the men through Lawrence's eyes, his acute judgement, and his poetic narrative.
He notes the keys to the Arab Revolt in the common language they shared and their heritage of the greatness that existed under the Caliphs going back to the six centuries following the death of Muhammad.
Well, I've been working on this one for a while. It is by turns majestic, tiresome, enigmatic, and written in the grand manner of the 19th Century. It is interesting to find the big moments of the film, "Lawrence of Arabia", almost made light of in his memoir. He seems to be vain about all the wrong things. I imagine he wasn't a very likable chap but you have to admit he did remarkable things, and I marvel at some of the writing here.
I'm not sure I actually understand either one better than when I started.One of the most frustrating problems that quickly emerges is that Lawrence completely assumes that the reader is intimately familiar with all details of the chronology of the war, all of the history of the region, all of the people involved.
Makes great cover, added to all that English reserve, so that you have to read paragraphs three times to actually figure out what the heck just happened.Not helping are some typographical choices that I don't know who to blame for.
The culmination of his military exploits in the desert was his participation in the conquering of Damascus late in 1918, and the consequent installation of a provisional Arab government under Faisal.After the shooting stopped, Lawrence would become disillusioned over the knowledge that the cause of Arab independence had been undermined by the secret Sykes-Picot Agreement negotiated during the war to divide the Middle East under French-British influence.Many of Lawrence's exploits are chronicled in "Seven Pillars of Wisdom." However, the text available to most readers today is from revised editions of the original.
Thomas was a war correspondent who traveled with Lawrence and Faisal.
When a colleague once asked me which was my favourite war film, I didn't need to think about it for long.But as is usually the case, the book blows the film away.
It is also directly relevant to our day, for as TE Lawrence wrote:"We could see that a new factor was needed in the East […] No encouragement was given us by history to think that these qualities could be supplied ready-made from Europe.
But it's always the same in politics: the decision-makers are by definition those who are closest to the fount of all power, and furthest away from the real world.
مما حملني على أن أقسم بيني وبين نفسي على أن أجعل من الثورة العربية أداةً تعمل لغاية ذاتية، أكثر منها خادمة لجيشنا البريطاني، وأخذت عهداً بأن أقودها، بأي ثمن، إلى النصر عل الرغم من انتهازية الدول الكبرى...".
وعدد الجيوش التي ساهمت في الثورة العربية (البريطاني بفرقه من الهنود، الفرنسي، والاسترالي، وكذلك الخيانات والتناحرات من الشريف حسين وجر.
والأكثر غرابةً أن الدافع الأكبر للثورة كانت الغنائم والأسلاب وأعطيات الأنكليز..أنا بالأساس لست مغرماً بالثورات، وإذا أردنا تشريح ما حققته هذه الثورة من أهداف يمكنكم معرفة أسبابي.
هدف الثورة العربية الأساس كان التخلص من دولة الخلافة العثمانية الظالمة والفاسدة.
والتي حققت أهداف أكثر مما كان يحلم به الشريف حسين وابنه فيصل..
In this beautifully written memoir, Lawrence presents us with an honest account of his role in the Arab revolt, his hopes on making Damascus the capital of the Arabs, but also his doubts about the whole endeavor.
That they loved him and accepted him as one of their own becomes clear in the final chapters leading up to the taking of Damascus, when the Arabs saw him negotiating with the English to get supplies and ammunition to prepare for the capture of the city:Never could I forget the radiant face of Nuri Said, after a joint conference, encountering a group of Arab officers with the cheerful words, 'Never mind, you fellows; he talks to the English just as he does to us!'The history is fascinating, and so are his descriptions of desert life, the sand storms and mirages, the annoying insects, the camels, and the oases.
I found it beautifully written, well worth reading.
In bare terms, this is an autobiographical account of a British liaison officer and his adventures leading an Arab rebellion against the Turks.
An account by a philosopher-traveler-soldier about war and adventure and heroism and all that.It is a product of his time.
And Lawrence does seem a bit patronizing about the Arabs and Turks.
But in other times, he is astonishingly sensitive and well-attuned and insightful to their needs.
How else could he have helped led a successful guerrilla campaign?A book which still shines and has much to teach.
If only he was in charge of the post-war partitioning of the world.
Not so much that he had them, but that a national hero, who turned down a knighthood and a Victoria Cross not to mention two Croix De Guerres, writing shortly after World War One, would share such things with the general public.It made me think of  Lord Of The Rings  not only because what Lawrence did in mostly just two short years is an absolutely epic tale, but because so much of it revolves around ancestor worshiping/respecting tribesmen with bizarre sounding names from bizarre sounding places.
It makes me think of the helicopter attack scene in the film  Apocalypse Now  in that a lot happens in short space of time, much of it is horrible, some of it is incongruous and some of it weird, and you are on the edge of your seat trying to imagine what that must have been like.
however, I didn't actually finish the book.If you aren’t quite sure of who this man is, simply think back to that amazing, award winning movie, “Lawrence of Arabia.” Lawrence’s main initiative in this book is to act as an intermediate between the rebel forces of Arabia and the English, who were organizing against the Ottoman Turk’s.
It’s very clear by his writing that Lawrence has absolutely no respect for the Turk’s, whom he views as culturally absent and reliant upon numbers, rather then strategy and wit.
However, if you understand what it is to follow complex storyline’s and are interested in the man itself, please do read this book.
That was hard to read (one star for that!). Lawrence describes every hill, tree and shrub, gives the name of every man he has met and depicts his clothes, the meal they shared and the jokes that were told. On top of that military theory, philosophy, ethics, and theology. Heavy stuff. What you also get: a better understanding for today's near and middle east conflicts, insight into the Arab soul, and a glimpse into the soul of a very complicated man. Five stars for this.
I selected this book to read as part of the research I was doing on my novel.
I had seen the film "Lawrence of Arabia" in the past and now wanted to mine the book for details I needed to know about life among the Bedouin in 1920.
I had planned to only read the parts I needed for my novel, but ended up devouring the whole thing.
As Lawrence's personality was dissected in that fabulous biography, I could not help but draw on a curious aspect of human-ness.
But the screenplay cannot put the words in our ears that we need to hear in order to understand Lawrence.
This book is even more relevant today than when I read it over a decade ago and describes desert warfare in the early days of airpower and before the largescale use of armour when men fought men as they did in Flanders, and when leaders rode or marched with their troops and did not sit behind computers.although the historical accuracy has been questioned it remains primarily an adventure story and even if it is only based on facts rather than being a true account it remains a fantastic story with much to teach about the arab culture.
This is an amazing account of Lawrence's experiences in Arabia during WWI, and one of my favorite books of all time.
His vivid and tireless description of the Arabs, the war and the desert combined with an intimate view into his moral struggles provides an unparalled kathartic read.
His exhausting description can seem to get monotonous at times but whether intentional or not this style "works" for writing about the desert.
Simply put, the man was as brilliant as he was tragic.Interestingly enough Prince Feisal whom accompanies Lawrence in leading the Arab campaign against the Turks becomes the King of what would later become Iraq...
Finally, a version was authorized by Lawrence to be printed for more general circulation; this edition was titled Revolt in the Desert.Lawrence was a very private man and despite this amazing story to tell he didn't get rich from his war adventures He never stopped believing in Arab independence and he felt strongly that the events in Arabia had to be recorded - to show there were promises made to the Arabs , unkept in the WWI post war carve up.He could not live post war in obscurity thanks to the media exposure from Lowell Thomas.Thomas was a war correspondent who traveled with Lawrence and Faisal, taking photographs and even filming some of the military action of the battles with the Turks.
But hidden in all that dry, sandy strata are nuggets of wisdom about politics, war and irregular warfare in the middle east—some of it relevant today.“They were weak in natural resources … otherwise we should have had to pause evoking in the strategic center of the Middle East new national movements of such abounding vigor.”This is Lawrence’s second draft.
He indulges in the racial, class and national stereotypes common to an educated Englishman of that day, but he is frank in his admiration for those who suffered most: the common soldiers.“We should use the smallest force in the quickest time at the farthest place.”His analysis of the development of irregular warfare echoes in the tactics used worldwide today.
This classic autobiography of over 700 pages was written 90 years ago by Lawrence covering his 1916-18 WW-I campaign to help organize and use disparate Arab tribes as a supplementary weapon to the British against the Turks, who were aligned with the Germans. I enjoyed and hated the book. The enjoyment was, to put it simply, “I was exposed to and learned so much about so many things.” In fact,  way through the book I downloaded and watched the 1962 movie of Lawrence of Arabia (which for a movie i
This classic autobiography of over 700 pages was written 90 years ago by Lawrence covering his 1916-18 WW-I campaign to help organize and use disparate Arab tribes as a supplementary weapon to the British against the Turks, who were aligned with the Germans.
Lawrence, an Oxford man, had spent nearly 10 years in Arabia by 1918 when he was 30, the Turks were in rout, the Arabs (arguably under Lawrence’s indirect and direct leadership) captured Damascus, and the bookends.The hate was how tedious it can be to handle the geographical places, tribal names, and key tribal leaders.
E. Lawrence's descriptions of the places he went and characters that he met on his treks through the Middle East leave me wanting more.
He states that he was a reluctant participant in the events of the Arab Revolt, but his enthusiasm in these descriptions tells another story.
E. LawrenceLawrence experienced much inner turmoil regarding the difference between the British/French and the Arabs of the true mission of the revolt, and the true character of the participants.
I was unable to take the professional view that all successful actions were gains.
They spend a lot of time blowing up trains.But the strangeness of Lawrence's situation and what it is doing to him comes though clearer and clearer.He's becoming super bitter about having to be loyal to both the Arabs who are his friends and companions, and the British who are making all sorts of promises they have no particular intent to keep.So he's helping to lead and foment an Arab nationalist rebellion while simultaneously trying to advance the goals of the Empire.
I have little to no interest in military tactics and strategy and only a limited generalist's view o
It is only after the battle, having survived the fall from his beast that he realizes he has shot the poor creature in the back of the head himself during the attack.
He tells of his realization of how a smaller force can keep a much larger force in check became a successful campaign allowing the eventual capitulation of Turkish forces in the region.This book is a must read for anybody interested in the history of this region of the world.
Lawrence was one of the Europeans who participated and tried to influence the shape of the region following the Armistice.
I read Seven Pillars of Wisdom because I was going to Jordan.
It was a tortuous read and I had to bribe myself to finish it.
This is unfair on Lawrence so I should explain that I am a middle aged woman with zero interest in the strategies and tactics of warfare.
Lawrence's elephantine ego infuriated me, but without that he would never have achieved what he did.
I guess it's a question of horses for courses, and some courses demand the elephantine ego.
Challenge yourself to read it if you are visiting Jordan.
Then take a look at http://theislandatelier.com/jordan-la...
5 stars for the awesome parts, 0 stars for the mind numbing parts.I really wanted to love this book. I just hard a hard time getting through it. He is so descriptive and it makes you want to strangle him sometimes. But his story is a cool one. I have been meaning to read it for years. It gets good at about page 87 and then is on and off. Reading the last 200 pages is a genuine Herculean task.
Gave up at 3%. Too much vague waffle, not enough nitty gritty, or more precisely, none whatsoever.
About halfway through David Lean's masterpiece, a British soldier yells at Lawrence across a canal, "Who are you?" It's a practical question in the context of the scene but anyone who's given the movie some thought will recognize it has much larger thematic implications.
It's a question that Lean never answers or, perhaps more accurately, answers in a million different ways.
No matter what you think about Lawrence, there's something in the movie to back you up and plenty of other things to challenge your conclusions.
I think he was incredibly charismatic and absolutely a genius, though perhaps not in the way you'd assume.

It was an interesting account by Lawrence of his experiences organizing and advising the Arab revolt against the Turks during World War 1.
Some of the details on the movements geographically of Lawrence's forces are hard to follow, and could have been better explained if maps showing the various place names had been throughout the text.
Some of Lawrence's prose is a little hard to follow.
In addition, I was moved by an account of Lawrence when one of his irregular Arab guerilla leaders, Tallal, finds his home village massacred by the Turks during their retreat from Allenby's forces.
Prima lettura ottobre 2008:Geologia, antropologia, etnografia, sociologia, politica, arte della guerra, e molto, molto altro ancora sono gli ingredienti di questo magnifico libro, massimo esempio di epica moderna, che racconta la storia con l'afflato del miglior romanzo.Lawrence, scrittore inestimabile, tiene incollati alla pagina sia che racconti le lunghe notti nel deserto, sia che descriva i protagonisti sia che espliciti i propri pensieri, dolori dubbi.Libro altamente raccomandabile per chiunque voglia entrare nel guazzabuglio della moderna storia del popolo arabo.
La prima lettura è corsa sul ritmo epico della narrazione, dell'incredibile guerra che ha generato un personaggio romantico.
Mi primer encuentro con este libro fue a través del cine, con el cielo del desierto fundiéndose en los ojos azules de Peter O'Toole.
Si hay pocas películas que estén al nivel del libro que adaptan esta es una de las que lo consiguen.
No es un relato imparcial porque fue escrito a modo de crónica oficial de los hechos de armas del Ejército Británico, y en muchos pasajes el autor nos da una visión favorable a sus puntos de vista ocultando datos que podrían poner en cuestión sus decisiones.

