https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13.The_Ultimate_Hitchhiker_s_Guide_to_the_Galaxy
It turns out it takes little more than a moment's questioning to burst our preconceptions at the seams, yet rarely does this stop us from treating the most ludicrous things as if they were perfectly reasonable.It is no surprise that famed atheist Richard Dawkins found a friend and ally in Adams.
By showing a universe that makes no sense and having his characters constantly question it, Adams is subtly hinting that this is the natural human state, and the fact that we laugh and sympathize shows that it must be true.It's all a joke, it's all ridiculous.
Just as funny as advertised, but I made the mistake of reading the collection of all five novels, and - what's more - trying to read them all in one go. Once I got about halfway through Life, the Universe, and Everything, it had stopped being funny and had gotten a little confusing. Adams is excellent at humor, not so much at plot.So, for clarification: 5 stars for the original Hitchhiker's, 4 for The Restaurant at the End of the Universe, and 3 stars for the others.
Life doesn't have a plot, right?
This is most true in the earlier books in the Trilgy (yes, it's five books in a series; The trilogy is inaccurately named), when the writing is fresher and better.But the best part of H2G2 (and all of DNA's books, frankly, even Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency) is his worldview.
You'll get more and better ideas out of me that way.
And H2G2 is an inaccurately named trilogy, because it is composed of five books.
I recommend reading them all at once, even though there's no plot and things in one book will sometimes contradict things in another.
It's that book you pick up and feel obligated to love, if only to escape grievous fan persecution.
I skipped ten or so pages near the middle but I'm sure those ten pages were, like the rest of the book, terribly witty and sickeningly clever.The plot takes twists like...ah, what's a good analogy?
Don't get me wrong, they're good twists and Adams is admittedly superb at making the inherently illogical seem orderly and precise, but they just don't stop coming.
I can see why this book has achieved its cult status.
At the end, I'm still feeling oh-so-amused and impressed, but also oh-so-relieved I can stop.
So my journey with The Ultimate Hitchhiker’s Guide to Galaxy finally came to an end. What an enjoyable journey it was! The characters, the stories, the writing and the essence of Douglas Adam’s work – it was fantastic!!!I had heard a lot about this cult series and finally got to read it – thanks to a friend. A very big thank you to you indeed!This book contains the entire Hitchhiker’s Guide to Galaxy series by Douglas Adams i.e. 5 novels and 1 story:1. The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy 2. The
A very big thank you to you indeed!This book contains the entire Hitchhiker’s Guide to Galaxy series by Douglas Adams i.e. 5 novels and 1 story:1.
As the name suggests it is a guide for people or rather aliens who hitchhike their way through the galaxy and comes in the form of an electronic book.
You guys have probably read it by now.If you are not into science fiction, then I would suggest that you try the first book in the series - The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy and then decide if you want to proceed further.
I definitely am overdue to reread this comic scifi classic! I remember laughing all the time at the quirky universe that Adams conjured up, but admit to have forgotten many of the details...on my 2018 TBR!
I first read what was then the Hitchhiker's Guide trilogy in high school. I remember sitting on the bleachers in the gym reading while other people played volleyball or some other indoor sport and being swept away on a rollicking ride across the universe, and even to its end. Much more fun than volleyball. You brought much joy and laughter to my life, Douglas Adams. So long and thanks for all the fish.
Okumayı literal olarak yıllara yaydığım (okumaya pek kıyamadığım) türünün ilk, belki de tek örneği. Douglas Adams'ın Doctor Who metinlerine de el attığını söylediğimde bu kitabın aşağı yukarı hangi frekansta olduğunu tahmin edebilirsiniz. Yer yer sesli güldüğüm bu bilimkurgu kitapta sarkastik üslubu tork olarak kullanan yazar homo sapiensi yer yer politik ve sosyolojik olarak eleştirmek için işini türlü çeşit uzaysal saçma sapanlıklarla donatarak ortaya paradoksal bir absürdlük çıkarmış. Bunu da çok zekice ve iyi yapmış.Not olarak eklemeden duramayacağım ki örnek olsun: CIA bu kitapta "Celestial Intervention Agency" olarak geçiyor.
Ovaj Marvin je legenda!!! :D Prva dva dela su maestralno napisana,preostali delovi razvučeni i za nijansu slabiji,ali to mi nije pokvarilo celokupan utisak o ovom romanu.Jedna od knjiga kojoj ću se nanovo vraćati :)
2.5 stars I ended it after four books because I felt like the fourth book (epilogue not included) had a nice ending and also I'm bloody sick of it
Takođe, ne mogu a da se ne sažalim na sirotog Artura Denta koji mi je momentalno prirastao srcu uz još sirotijeg Marvina.
Razlog za pomenutu pauzu tokom čitanja leži u neverovatnom broju obrta u pričama koji se za trenutak graniči sa besmislom i predstavlja noćnu moru bilo kome sa iole slabijom koncentracijom.
Sa druge strane, ni sama nisam bila svesna odličnih fazona koji su u opštoj upotrebi godinama unazad, a za koje nisam imala pojma da potiču baš iz Autostoperskog vodiča kroz galaksiju.
The coolest five-book trilogy ever.
Not too many people have the balls to write a trilogy that starts off with the absolute destruction of earth for no other reason than the fact that it was in the path of a hyperspace highway that was soon to become obsolete with the advent of the improbability drive.
Speaking of which, the technology in these books is easily more imaginative than anything that George Lucas has thought of in the last twenty years.
Reading these books is essential for living.
If you appreciate anything from Monty Python (Adams worked with the Pythons on occasion) or want to read something original, read this iconic trilogy.
One of the funniest books, and one of my favourite, ever. Read it now - it's got good writing, great jokes and the meaning of life thrown in. What more could you want?
Douglas Adams is either the craziest, most creative and funniest author I've ever read, or he's just on crack. Or maybe it's a little of both.The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy and the books that follow it are all completely insane and impossible to summarize, so I'm not even going to try. They're books that can't be taken too seriously, so just sit back, relax, and enjoy the portrait of insanity Adams so expertly paints.
İroni ve kronoloji kavramları kendilerine yeni birer biçim bulmuş olabilir bu kitapla. Evrenin saçma sapanlıkları ve aşırı sistemli rastgeleliği üzerine, aynı şekilde saçma sapan ve aşırı sistemli bir kitap. Her şey yerini buluyor ama tam o anda bulunan şeyin orada olmadığı ortaya çıkıyor. Şaşkın bir arayış ve anlamsız buluşlar, tekrar, tekrar ve tekrar.Keşke Marvin için başlıbaşına bir bölüm olsaydı :/Elveda ve bütün satırlar için teşekkürler :)
- whew!! kept me singing that old song that goes ♫♪"i just can't get enough!" ♫♪
Şimdi nereden başlasam nasıl anlatsam ne desem bilemiyorum bu kitap için.
Standart bir bilim kurgu kitabı değil onu söylemem lazım.
Çok satan, bilmem ne ödülü almış, kitaptan sonra hemen filmi yapılmış teknik terimlerle dolu kitaplardan hiç değil.
Galaksinin herhangi bir yerinde geçen, arabalar yerine uzay gemilerinin olduğu, yolların zemininin olmadığı bir yol hikayesi denebilir.
Değil mi ama olabilir herşey.
Hayal gücümüzü evrene bağlayabiliriz.Yazılacak çok şey var ama ben şimdilik bu kadar yazabiliyorum.
Baştan sona olayları kafamda tekrar oynatıyorum ve Douglas Adams'ın nasıl bir kafa yapısı ile bunları yazdığını düşünüyorum.
Sadece esprili bir bilim kurgu yol kitabı yazmamış, aynı zamanda gönderme yapmak istediği konulara tek tek giydirmeyi de bilmiş.
I enjoyed that book; if I was rating this alone it would be a good 4-star book - it was funny and inventive with some great characters...it's the other books in this series that made it so difficult for me.
The second - The Restaurant at the End of the Universe - wasn't particularly bad, but didn't even nearly live up to Hitchhiker's Guide.
My recommendation: read Hitchhiker's Guide, but don't bother with any of the others.I'll maybe try reading this again in a few years because I so want to love these books, and hopefully the outcome will be better.
I liked this because it reminded me of Bromley, which as a child to my mind had far too many shoe shops all of which it seemed I was doomed to be dragged round whenever my childish feet, ever yearning for freedom, threatened to escape the bounds of my current pair.The business of the planet inhabited by the intelligent birds was I'm sure recycled and tided up into Zaphod Beeblebrox's visit to the Total Perspective Vortex - and that in a way is my experience of the whole series.
Originally there was the radio series, a television series, a series of books.
Why does British humor rely so much on the use of indifference?
In an indifferent manner, which makes it hi-larious.
A bloke is saved and, unmoored in the Universe, is dragged through a series of droll hijinx.
At around the third novel (this is a collection of five plus a short story, remember; I expect my medal to arrive any day now), Adams begins to lick himself uncontrollably and lifts entire chapters from his earlier books.
I find this utterly distasteful.The first two novels collected here (
and The Restaurant at the End of the Universe) are tolerable if you enjoy dry humor.
An astounding 4 star for this series.The satire in the first two books is just mind blowing.
Many a times I had to shut the book and laugh my heart out.
The later books were not as good as the first two but I still found the story line and humor to be good.
The last book was definitely not the end of the series because the author died while writing the next one.
I didn't want the series to end and definitely not at the point it did.I strongly recommend everyone to read at least the first two or three books of the series.
It doesn't get any better than this. Best books ever.
Seriously, I would read anything he wrote, even his grocery lists.
Why waste precious time reading about some trash can android or an alien that looks like the Elephant Man on a bad hair day while there are perfectly normal, realistic HUMAN characters out there?My favorite genre is historical fiction; you know, those books about human beings who either have been dead for centuries, or never existed at all, written by people who cannot possibly have any first-hand knowledge of the period that they’re writing about?
Just as proudly as Arthur exclaimed, "I will go mad!" At the beginning of the third book.
I enjoyed the first two books and the beginning of the third but decided that I have nothing to gain from reading the rest of this series.
If you are going to read Douglas Adams then my advice to you is to read them one book at a time and not in The Ultimate Hitchhiker's Guide.
At times I read it and quite enjoyed it.
At times I read it and quite loathed it.Go ahead, read the first book.
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy When I was studying in college, the smart guys in my class used to read a particular kind of books. Some of these books were ‘The Lord of the Rings’ by JRR Tolkien (before it became a movie and was read by everyone else), novels by P.G.Wodehouse, ‘One Hundred Years of Solitude’ by Gabriel Garcia Marquez, ‘2001 : A Space Odyssey’ by Arthur C. Clarke, ‘One, Two, Three…Infinity’ by George Gamov, ‘The Fountainhead’ by Ayn Rand and ‘Zen and the Art of Motocycle M
I can’t wait to read the second book in the series now.I will leave you with some of my favourite passages from the book.Mostly Harmless “If you’re a researcher on this book thing and you were on Earth, you must have been gathering material on it.” “Well, I was able to extend the original entry a bit, yes.” “Let me see what it says in this edition then, I’ve got to see it.” “Yeah, okay.” He passed it over again.
"Absürdlükler Teorisi" ve "Saçmalıklar Kuramı" ile yaratılan, espritüelliği yüksek bir evrenin akıllıca kurgulanması diyebiliriz kitap için. Aslında yazarın dehası da bu işte: Sunduğu evrenin "anlamsızlığı"nın oldukça sürükleyici oluşu. Kimine göre(celi) boş bir kitap (ya da kitaplar) gelebilir ama, "okumadan bilemezsin" derler. En can alıcı noktası, bizleri, insanları ve dünyayı evrenin "ucuna "koyarak ne kadar da önemsiz olduğumuzu bize hatırlatması. Sonuçta popüler kültüre (müzik, televizyon, sinema vs) malzeme sağlaması bile eserin etkilerini anlamaya değer.
Better late than never. After decades of hearing about this series, I finally broke down and read this collection. I laughed so much I thought I'd pass out.I will definitely keep my towel handy.The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (★★★★★)The Restaurant at the End of the Universe (★★★★★)Life, the Universe and Everything (★★★★★)So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish (★★★★★)Mostly Harmless (★★★★★)
Ever been on a drunk trip with friends where you converse about space and aliens and meaning of life and your existence etc! That's how this book reads. All throughout. It is weird in more than one ways and it is still brilliantly attention-grabbing. Adams has celebrated wit and intelligence of the language. He masters it. Nails it. He repeats words and sentences and twists and turns them and brings out more than one meaning out of them. I enjoyed this so much that I think I have fallen in love all over again.
Yorumun aslı ve devamı Yorum Cadısı'nda.Otostopçunun Galaksi Rehberi mizahi yönü kuvvetli, kurgusu derin, anlatımı sürükleyici, gerçekliğin çok ötesinde bir eser. Rehber'le henüz tanışmadıysanız, paniğe kapılmayın! En yakın kitapçıya gidip arkasında, sağ alt köşede dostça "Paniğe Kapılmayın" yazan kitabı alın ve tabii, dışarı çıkmadan önce havlunuzu yanınıza almayı unutmayın ^_^
