https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19490.The_Music_of_Chance
Mi mise dentro una voglia fortissima di continuare a leggerlo, e per questo inseguii a lungo la cosiddetta trilogia di New York (‘Città di vetro’, ‘Fantasmi’ e ‘La stanza chiusa’) che all’epoca era fuori catalogo (Rizzoli).Poi, fu finalmente ristampata da Einaudi.Mandy Patinkin nel ruolo di Nashe e James Spader in quello di Pozzi, il giocatore di poker professionista.Credo sia proprio su questi primi titoli che Auster ha costruito da noi il suo culto, la sua schiera di fedelissimi affascinati da quella miscela inquietante di caso e destino che è il suo tema di fondo, nonché dalla chiara eleganza dello stile.I film probabilmente hanno incrementato il culto (almeno ‘Smoke’, ‘Blue in the Face, ‘Lulu on the Bridge’).A tutt’oggi, è il suo libro che preferisco e, forse, davvero il suo migliore.
Admittedly it is portrayed as the most sinister episode of landscape gardening that there ever was, but nonetheless it is still, inherently about two men building a wall.
Here is the recipe:Take one sticky situation.Add two desperate chancersMix in two mendacious and sinister old men (soft on the outside but hard as nails on the inside for the desired texture)Sprinkle on some moneyShake things up thoroughly Pound with one large but outwardly amiable henchman until tender and bloodyLeave overnight to absorb the consequences and stew in own juicesPop into a metal vessel then turn up the heat.I’m not going to say anymore aside from the fact that this absurdist novel by Paul Auster is, of all the novels he has written, my very own favourite.
Near desperation, he meets a bitter young itinerant gambler, Jack ("Jackpot") Pozzi, who lures him into a losing poker game with two shady recluses, Flower and Stone, on their Pennsylvania estate.
Nashe and Pozzi must retire their debt by building a stone wall on the premises: what this Herculean labor does to them is the novel's leitmotif.
The enjoyment comes from the questions I ask myself after I've put the book down.
He meets another man on the road.
Then two men build a wall.
But the story's not really the thing (it never is in an Auster-book).
Auster's writing style is enigmatic.
A macabre fable about fate and chance and randomness and destiny.Plenty of philosophical reference and dilemmas sprinkled throughout the tale.Throw in some Greek mythology also.Lots of the classical Auster themes and characterisations are here.Enjoyed the reference to Rousseaus target practice in a forest,I can relate to that.Not for everybody but I really enjoyed it.Discovered afterwards that it was made into a movie.Apart from his most recent novel I think I have now completed the entire Auster canon.One of the best living American writers in my view.

This time the narrator, one Jim Nashe—a man who, upon receiving an unexpected inheritance, opts to abandon his young family in order to aimlessly meander about the young country in the purpose of blowing the entirety of his stack—hooks up with an inveterate gambler, Jack Pozzi, and is persuaded to back him with the remains of his windfall in a poker play against a pair of old duffers whose didactic skills are held to be no match for this Hustler et ami.
When the tensions mount to the breaking point, not the least observant of readers will be surprised to discover that bad things are going to happen.An absorbing and thoughtful read, if a touch elliptic whenever Auster slips too sartorially into the seamed passions of his postmodern graces.
When Nashe, in Paul Auster's 'The Music of Chance' plops his $200,000 inheritance into a bank account, I know I'm in for a nervous read about a man will run out of money somewhere awful.
Every time they worked on the wall, Nashe and Pozzi came up against the same bewitching conundrum: all the stones were identical, and yet each stone was heavier than the one before it." This is the best book I have ever read about art, that's not about art.
Another strange but absorbing read from one of America's finest, its a little on the short side but is instantly recognisable as Auster. Featuring oddball eccentric characters and elements of The Brothers Grimm and Samuel Beckett, its quite a straight forward story basically about a couple of guys losing a game of poker then building a wall as a way to clear the debt, its told in a way that makes it feel like a surreal fable. There is also a shocking ending I didn't see coming. For fans it's a worthy read, although not his best.
I think that I had an absolute brainstorm in reading this book.
I really don't know but frustration kept me continuing my reading marathon and this to me is sheer insanity.
Imagine a man, Jim Nashe, who has inherited a small fortune.
He wasn't unhappy working in the Fire Department but he was separated from his wife and this is where the insanity begins.With this serendipitous money, Nashe buys a new car and goes on a mad driving trip through the States.
He is a man demented and driven but what to say and then he meets Jack Pozzi.
This book left with so much thinking to do and had so many philosophical metaphors that I ended up pushing it on my friends, fully thinking that I had their best interest in mind.
But when I actually, thought about it I realized that what I really wanted was someone to discuss the book with.
I wanted to talk about the characters and the metaphor and what it was all really trying to say.
Yeah, this is a fabulous book.
Most of all I feel this book deals with how one should live one's life.
Man, there's so much to this book.
Auster made use of classical music and sounds to heighten emotions to important scenes in this book.
Early last year, I read his The New York Trilogy a.k.a. NYT and I was struck by his brilliance in interrelating his characters and plots in those three well-written stories.
A couple of months back, I read his Invisible as it is a newly added book in the 2010 edition of the 1001 Books You Must Read Before You Die. The distinctive Auster style is still there: straightforward, no-frills, no-pretentions, no-philosophical agenda writing is still there but the plot is different from NYT as it deals with incest.
نمیدونم چرا تا آخرش خوندم:(..کتابی ضعیف از پل آستر..انتظار این همه بد بودن رو نداشتم..هیچ چیز نداشت این کتاب جز مکالمه های بی سر وته که چیزی برای یادگرفتن نداشت...البته دوسه تا جمله بود که خوب بودن ولی در کل کتاب خوبی نبود..به امید کتاب بهتری از آستر:)
Όλα αυτά τα χρόνια όμως, δεν έτυχε να διαβάσω κάποιο άλλο βιβλίο του συγγραφέα, αν και δεν είναι λίγα αυτά που αγόρασα στο μεσοδιάστημα.
Η γραφή του Όστερ πραγματικά με ξετρέλανε, από τις πρώτες κιόλας σελίδες κατάλαβα ότι θα διάβαζα κάτι πολύ δυνατό, και φυσικά δεν έπεσα έξω.
Και η αλήθεια είναι ότι πριν ξεκινήσω το βιβλίο, δεν περίμενα να διαβάσω κάτι που θα με άγγιζε τόσο πολύ.
Το μόνο σίγουρο είναι ότι δεν θα αφήσω να περάσουν πάλι εφτά και βάλε χρόνια μέχρι να ξαναδιαβάσω βιβλίο του συγγραφέα.
Paul’da bir şey var. Öyle bir şey var ki, beni hapsediyor. Tesadüflerin Adamı diye isim takmıştım bir aralar. Sıkılmadığım, dikkatimi dağıtmadan okuduğum o nadir yazarların başında geliyor.
giudizi in un haikue ti porta via il caso se ti prende inaspettato
Изчакайте малко и си върнете някои сцени.(view spoiler)[Цялата книга е едно пътуване, чрез което Джим търси изкупление, спасение..., себе си ...
Загубен и прецакан от случайността на съдбата след като получава огромна сума пари, но твърде късно, за да може това да повлияе на някои събития.
Но всъщност приветстваше тези напомняния, защото те внасяха елемент на риск в това, което вършеше, а той именно това търсеше: да почувства, че държи юздите на собствения си живот.
Per calcare la mano sul suo tema più caro, "il potere sconfinato del Caso", Paul Auster propone in questo romanzo una sequela di situazioni e di eventi più che mai strani, strampalati, gratuiti.Non solo il Caso, in effetti, anche la fantasia ha un potere sconfinato, se lasciata libera, e sa produrre di tutto: con grande facilità, per dire, una brutta storia, un brutto libro. Il fatto è che, mentre il Caso ha un potere sconfinato che ci domina, la fantasia, quando si scrive, deve (dovrebbe) essere tenuta assolutamente a bada.
By far the best book I have read of Auster. The characters are brought deeper and deeper into a prison made up of their own careless acts of chance.The ending reminded me of Kafka's "The Trial" - just as one sees light at the end of the tunnel, a random event changes everything - just like the game of poker in the begining
داستان این است اگر یکی دو جا شانس آوردی دلیل نمی شود همیشه همان طور باشد.
همین طور می شود گفت داستان خواست رهایی و بازگشت به این دنیاست...
پیچیدگی شاهکارهای کلاسیک را ندارد، و هرچند شخصیت اصلی داستان تقریبا کامل و بسیار خوب، اما بقیه تقریبا رها شده اند.شاید این ها هم از خوبی های داستان باشد برای نسل جدیدی که اکثرا از زیاد بودن داستان ها می نالند، اما هرچند که من همیشه فکر می کنم یکی از نقص داستان های خوب جدید کم بودن حجم آنهاسا، فکر می کنم نویسنده در تعداد صفحات آن تصمیم درستی گرفته و کشش داستان همین 280 صفحه است.در دیگر شرایط به این کتاب سه از پنج می دادم اما یک نکته باعث می شود که حس کنم کتاب بیش از این ارزش دارد و آن این است که بعد از مدت ها اولین کتابی بود که هم خواستم و هم توانستم از ابتدا تا انتها را یک نفس بخوانم.
Уж нищо и никаква ситуация, игра на покер - печелиш, губиш - а постепенно Остър изгражда толкова напрегната, потискаща и смахната атмосфера, че вече се чудиш реално какво и защо се случва. И докато си блъскаш главата да проумееш накъде отива историята, героите са изправени пред жестока борба за здравия си разум и физическото си оцеляване.И накрая сам трябва да попълниш празнините, защото "умът не търпи вакуум".
Paul Auster, meisterlicher Autor in schwermütigen Charaktergeschichten und surrealen Wendungen, nutzt hier die missliche Position zweier Männer zu einem sehr andersartigen Stück über Werte, Schulden und Vergeltung.
Mehrfach wird die Geschichte komplett auf den Kopf gestellt, das eigentlich langsame Tempo an einigen Stellen extrem beschleunigt.
Und wenn am Ende das Buch so abrupt endet wie es begann, dann hat sicher weder ein Kreis geschlossen noch sind die Rätsel gelöst.
Ich mag es sehr, wenn Auster sich in solche Konstrukte stürzt und diese ohne Vorwarnungen auseinanderreisst.
Und seiner Sprache ist es schliesslich auch hier zu verdanken, dass man bei jeder Beschreibung und jedem Dialog mehr als nur gut unterhalten wird und schnell mitfiebert.
Creo que fue la primera pelicula que vi con escenas de sexo implicito (era HBO a las 14:00 hrs no mas), con algo de violencia moderada pero sobre todo con un trasfondo super fuerte.
Tampoco me gusta la ultima época, desde Oracle Night (y sobre todo "Travels in the scriptorium"), en que lo unico que hace es mirarse el ombligo, escribir sobre-escritores-que-escriben-sobre-escribir y usar lugares comunes.Pero para mi tiene un periodo dorado, principalmente: La Musica del Azar, Leviathan y El palacio de la luna (este ultimo, ocasionalmente lo considero como mi libro favorito.

This is a super fun, smart, and ultimately powerful story about chance and money.
Much of the dialogue is ripped right out of the experimental crime novels of the 1930s and 40s.
It felt timely - re: occupy movement - and timeless - re: chance.
A fun roller coaster ride of a plot.
And interestingly it kind of denies any lyrical movements in favor of ellipsies and stress points until the denial itself feels lyrical.
Highly recommend for lovers of the crime-ish novels of Denis Johnson (Nobody Move) and Charles Portis (Dog of the South).
Paul Auster,beyzbol maçı bile anlatsa,beş yıldız alır benden.Hayranıyım kendisinin...
وقتي شانس به آدم رو مي كنه، هيچ چيز نمي تونه جلوش بگيره. مثل اينه كه يك دفعه همه ي دنيا سر جايي كه بايد باشه قرار مي گيره. انگار آدم بيرون از خودشه و تمام شب معجزه هاي خودش رو تماشا مي كنه. ديگه ربطي به تو نداره. از دستت خارجه و تا وقتي زياد بهش فكر نكني، اشتباه نمي كني.
Opening lines:'By the time Nashe understood what was happening to him, he was past the point of wanting it to end . . .'
Още един безмилостен писател.
Пол Остър от началото до края. Интересно.
I enjoyed my first foray into Auster. I thought this novel was well constructed and delightfully disorientating. I also really enjoyed the absurdist undercurrent. I would have given it five stars were it not for the fact that I found some of the exchanges between Nashe and Pozzi a little grating.
