https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/216408.The_True_Story_of_Hansel_and_Gretel
I am the witch."Hansel and Gretel has been a favorite fairy tale since childhood.
The way the author has taken the fairy tale, re-imagined it, and paired it with the evil nightmare of WWII is fascinating.
It's incredible to me how the author has a way of keeping to the original story of Hansel and Gretel throughout, consistently hovering around elements true to the original fairy tale.
Parts of the story were so hard to get through, but I loved the characters especially Magda, Nelka, Telek, Hansel and Gretel.
Magna was surely my most prized character.
Once upon a time during the last months of the Nazi occupation of Poland two Jewish children, eleven and seven, were left by their father and stepmother  at the roadside and told to hide in the woods.
Then just like that their father and stepmother get back on their motorcycle and disappear.
It is a very dark tale that does not gloss over the horrific violence and senseless cruelty suffered by the Polish people; men, women and children alike.
Let me say right out of the gate that this might possibly be the best book I have read all year.
That was several months ago, and now that I have finally gotten around to it, I must repeat what I said at the beginning, this might be the best book I have read all year.
This reads like a dark fantasy, but that dark fantasy is just a cover for what is really a horrific holocaust story.
Yeah, it is one of those kind of books.I don't know how I have never heard of this book but I would recommend it all my Goodread friends.
and this is a chronicle of that time, with a superimposed fairy tale of two jewish children, abandoned in the forest by their father and stepmother, in the hopes that they will survive; "passing" as gentiles called "hansel" and "gretel".
their story unfolds as the narrative splits to follow the father and stepmother, as well as various other characters impacted by the horrors of a war that doesn't yet know it is over.this is my go-to book when people ask for ww2 books that aren't about spies.
I had been warned by reading numerous reviews that this would be a dark tale.
Well, because as a child, when we are told fairy tales, we are petrified.
The very juxtaposition of the brutal, horrible evil next to the wonderful truly feels like a fairy tale.
The author has fulfilled her goal perfectly!I will give you and example of beauty and wonder alongside brutality and horror: The sleet covering the forest had frozen into ice on everything she saw.She walked toward the creek carrying the bucket.
The way the story is told, the words the author chooses makes you recognize the tone of a fairy tale.
Though I read this book several years ago, it has stayed with me. I chose it as this week's Throwback Thursday pick. You can read my mini review as well as all my other revies on the blog.
Murphy isn't even the first writer to make use of such motifs in a tale set during the Holocaust.
By keeping the key family unit nameless, not only is Murphy making a statement about the universality of the experience, at least for a segment of the population, but the absence of the names keeps the reader and, strangely, the Nazis from having power over the central characters.
Murphy makes good use of the rather horrific tale by manipulating the motifs.
Like the source tale, Murphy switches the children's roles halfway the book.
In Murphy's book, the children are "abandoned" so the adults can led the Nazi's away.
This was a chilling book that took a few of the features of the familiar fairy tale and wove them into an incredible story of two Polish children hiding from the Nazis during the end of WWII.
All of the characters are complex and carefully drawn, and the book manages to follow the stories of the parents who have left their children in the woods, the family of the "witch" who takes in the children, and, of course, the children themselves.
The competing stories make the book a page-turner.
It’s more “I’ll never be the same person after reading this book” wow.I’ll start by saying I absolutely love fairy tale retellings.
I tend to shy away from these books – not because I don’t think the topic is an important one, but because I’m one hell of an emotional person, and I end up being shredded by the stories.
I had to know the “true” story behind this fairy tale.This book was amazing.
I will forever retain some of the images from this book and am so grateful that it ended with hope and love.I usually only give books five stars when I think I might read them again.
Yes, it’s another book taking place during World War II but it can’t be defined by that.
It is a story of love and compassion, putting your life at risk for others, and the struggle to survive.
Unlike other holocaust books I’ve read, this one takes place in a small village in Poland and the surrounding woods and fields.
Obviously not because of what took place, but because of the way it was written – so full of love and compassion.
The stars on the coats come off when their souls float up and the stars live up in the sky forever.” And when disturbed by a shooting star falling, Hansel says ”They aren’t falling.
What an extremely powerful but violent re=telling of a fairy tale. Very intense book about World War ll and two Jewish children running through the woods for their lives and the old woman, Magda, that they villagers called a witch but who risked her life to help the children survive.
Gang-Rape of Gretel in detail, graphic murder, repeated sex in front of the children, a nipple obsession throughout the book, another perverted scene too graphic to even list here, Hansel's lust for a pregnant and lactating mother-figure, etc.
"I will rape and pervert your mind, but we won't mention it; we'll act like it never happened, and we'll talk about this book in such a way that you will see that it is acceptable and valued by adult society." THAT is the message these teachers and publishers are getting across to our kids by refusing to even mention the extent of violent and appalling content.
It is brilliantly written and researched, and although the details of war were so repulsive that I more than once almost decided to stop reading, I continued because I had to KNOW what happened to the characters I had come to love.
Like many books of this nature, it made me wonder "what would I do in this situation?" and more importantly, "would I have been able to survive?" and it made me truly thankful that I don't have to know the answer to that question.
I highly recommend this book, but only to those who can emotionally stomach the realities (not the glossed-over versions) of war at its worst.
The reader finds out right away that this novel is set in Nazi-occupied Poland during World War II, and that the main characters are Jewish. So the reader has to be prepared for some cruelty. Still, the level, weirdness and frequency of the cruelty in this novel seems egregious to me. And some of the characters don't seem believable -- almost to the point of being cartoonish in one case.Perhaps when it comes to the Holocaust, it's better to stick to nonfiction. A couple of fine examples are "Night" by Elie Wiesel and "The Hiding Place" by Corrie Ten Boom.
Two Jewish children are forced into the woods in Poland by their father and step-mother in an attempt to save their lives during WWII.
In order to make their names sound less Jewish, the children are told their new names will be Hansel and Gretel like the great fairy tale.
Hansel and Gretel witness and are subject to the terrors, cruelty, starvation and brutality of the Nazi occupation of Poland.
Real stories about not only the Jewish, but the Polish and the Russians and everyone else that got in the way of the Nazis.
Yet, with all the cruelty and rawness of this story, there is also beauty and love.
The author takes the story of Hansel and Gretel and sets it against the events of World War II and the Holocaust, and it's just brilliantly done.It starts very briefly with the witch, who is not really a witch.
The witch's cottage is actually a hut, and inside is a baker's stove and oven.The biggest difference between the fairy tale and this novel is that the witch has no ill intentions toward the children whatsoever.
A lot of them.Hansel and Gretel, the fairy tale, is in itself a rather horrific tale, starting with the parent's abandonment, continuing with the witch's terrorizing the children, and ending with the witch's fiery fate.
There should be a way to remove stars from future novels by authors of horrendous books that deserve not only no star, but negative stars..., Stars in Arrears as it were.
I tried, Lord knows I did, but chapter after chapter only proved to confirm my feeling that continuing this novel would be a tremendous waste of time.
There have been very few books that I started and gave up on.
One, the title of which I had surgically removed from my memory, I got up from in the middle of and threw it in the trash.
So, I opened the book to a random page and was immediately immersed in the most brutal horrifying child mutilation I could stomach.
This was for book club or would have promptly shelved it - with hope of washing the excerpt from my mind forever.
However, starting from the beginning and enduring through, I realized this is becoming a bad taste in my mouth where I was left with the hope that in time it would finally become more palatable.
. .This was a HUGE 180 from my most recent WWII non-fiction, the 5 book series Children of the Promise by Dean Hughes, of which I highly recommend if you are in need of something redeeming.
I'm generally a sucker for fairy-tale retellings, but while the description of the setting evokes both a place out of time and a Polish village during the Nazi occupation, the prose is too erratic. I read on after being encouraged by a sublime passage of the young girl's reaction to trauma, even continued after the prose almost immediately turned cringe-worthy for another scene. But what stopped me completely in my tracks (around page 170) was a plot contrivance that made no sense as to the character of the Oberfuhrer.
The story has been told over and over by liars and must be retold."And so begins the rough story of Hansel and Gretel, told by the witch in the woods who saved them.
I appreciated the adds to the story that made you see the underlying pieces of the lies - the oven, the food house and others.
It added a little light and humor to such a dark story.
And this IS a dark story.
I also really appreciated the second story as we knew what was going on with the dad and stepmother.
The story was rough in places and at times, but it's a good story and one I'm glad I read.
Amazing storytelling! A gripping account from a very human side of the attrocities committed against humans during the Holocost. The strength of those trying to survive is amazing. At times an emotionally difficult read but one I found hard to put down. I really liked how this story had remnants of the fairy tale but in a very different way, a more believable story in an unbelievable time in history.
this book was fantastic. What a magical horrifying journey. It's so sad, so scary. The history behind this book is so terrifying.. children fighting for survival, hiding, starving, running, freezing, pretending, facing unimaginable horrors. forced into growing up ahead of their time, developing incredible courage and strength- this book is a perfect mix of fantasy and reality, it will really touch your spirit. I recommend it, but warn that it is dark and depressing at times.
Loved it!!! Strongly recomended!
The step-mother instructs the children to never tell anyone who they are and to forget their Jewish names and to call themselves Hansel and Gretel.
The children are left in the forest to fend for themselves where they find their way to the home of a witch named Magda and her large oven.A parallel plotline follows the father and stepmother as they struggle to escape the Nazis and survive with the hope of eventually reuniting with their children.This is not a fairy tale for children.
That’s not a criticism against the book or the author, but a testimony to just how powerful I thought Murphy’s story was.
Before reading this book, the events of the holocaust were just events that happened a long time ago and didn't affect me.
The story is about two Jewish kids whose parents leave them on the side of the road near the woods to protect them.
The story starts from there and describes their new lives in the small village.
Louise Murphy goes very in-depth about certain topics that most books about the Holocaust do not.
For this reason, I was able to learn more about the topic and gain a better understanding of what people experienced during this time period.
Normally I would be turned off a bit by the obvious comparisons in the book to the Grimm’s fairy tale, with the stepmother turning the children out into the forest, Hansel leaving bread crumbs along the trails, and the cottage with bread attached to it perhaps meant to lure hungry children.
Instead of an evil witch in the cottage, Magda turned out to be a grandmother figure with a heart.
The stepmother was not what we originally would think.
And this very creative, captivating story went on to teach us about the suffering in Eastern Poland when both Germany and Russia were there at the end of WWII.
This was an amazing book.
It is one of those books that stays with you after you put it down.
It is the story of two innocent children forced to grow up way too soon by the atrocities of war and the abject evil of the Nazis.
I loved how the traditional fairy tale was used as a backdrop, with the imagery of that tale threaded throughout the story.
The story was also interesting in that it was set in Nazi-occupied Poland, allowing the reader to see the effects of the war not only on the Jewish people but on the Polish people as a whole.
I highly recommend this book.
On September 30, 2008 I wrote about this book:Well I did finished it last night, could not put it down cause I wasn't sure it would be a happy ending or a bad end and I needed to know :) . Really good book but sometimes hard to read because of the atrocities that happened during the war.Love the way this author created a new story of the old fairy tale, one of the scariest ones. Once you've read it you think, why did nobody else come up with this idea!.Highly recommend this book. 9
OMG what did i get into. The title tells you everthing. The True Story of Hansel and Gretel is a fairy tale for adults. Very intense and graphic. I recommend
The author’s insistence on calling the children’s stepmother “The Stepmother.” Less irritating was occasionally calling Magda, “The Witch.” Was the idea here that people couldn’t figure out that it was a retelling of Hansel and Gretel (despite calling those characters “Hansel” and “Gretel” the whole time) unless core characters retained their simple descriptions instead of names?
This one is much more subjective than the last four, and the story could have worked without it but it seemed like it should have been there since their names came when “their Stepmother shook loose an old memory.”My list of annoyances could possibly have been overcome had I enjoyed any part of the book.
