https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30025336-all-the-crooked-saints
I always have the same singular emotion whenever I’m reading a Stiefvater book and I still don’t know what it is. I guess her books just launch me into another dimension every single time and I don’t know what is going on planetarily right now but I need to lay in a flower field for like, ten years at least. Tony said,“This is a madhouse!”“The world’s a madhouse,” Padre Jiminez corrected. “This is a place to heal it.”  This book had such a soft atmosphere to it: soft music, soft characters, soft
Otherwise, they will bring the darkness on themselves as well...only it will be tenfold more terrible.So what exactly happens when a Soria falls in love with a pilgrim?I can only say this: this book left me with the overwhelming desire to run away with maybe nothing but a block of cheese, a loaf of fresh bread and some apples and wander through the flower-specked mountains of Colorado, wrapped up in a shawl, during hours of a road trip until I hit an infinite stretch of deserted lands and hope to saunter into Bicho Raro to find real power and real significance simultaneously.
This book has owls and rock n' roll in it.
And everyone is chill with that.+ I admit I got confused about the miracles at first??The Sorias can't help anyone cure their inner darkness AND I JUST WANT TO KNOW WHY.
It feels like a rambling story you tell your grandkids, with lots of detours, that made it feel juicy and deep.+ Also loved LOVED the setting.I could totally see the ranch and the desert and the box truck.+ It's the kind of story that leaves you wanting MORE.Which is great, because I swear I've seen a tumblr post from Maggie Stiefvater which says that's her #1 wish for people who finish her books.
ARC received via #arcsfortrade on Twitter! (Thank you so much, Payton! ❤)🦉📚✨: You can get All the Crooked Saints and more of Maggie's books signed from Fountain Bookstore! 🦉📖💗: And you can read Chapter One online for free Here! This is the first Maggie Stiefvater book that I’m not giving five stars to, and it honestly hurts my heart to even write this review.   “You can hear a miracle a long way after dark.”  All the Crooked Saints is a story set in the 1960s and is about love, loss, hope, fear,
This is the first Maggie Stiefvater book that I’m not giving five stars to, and it honestly hurts my heart to even write this review.
I’m not sure if it was the 60s setting, or the desert environment, or maybe it was because I haven’t read that many magical realism novels before, but All the Crooked Saints just didn’t work for me at all.
I honestly feel like the story itself is only a two star read, but the writing, in true Maggie Stiefvater fashion, is a tier above most out there.
I'm not sure, but something about this naming just didn't feel incredibly authentic.Otherwise, my best advice would be to listen to Latinx reviewers who have actually read this book & see what they have to say about the controversy surrounding this novel.
I always love how atmospheric her stories tend to be, as that makes easy for me to sink in & get lost in her world building.While reading, I got the distinct feeling that Stiefvater wanted this novel to be similar to The Raven Cycle in ways that don't necessarily work outside of The Raven Cycle.
STOP with the rating books you haven't even read! You lose ALL credibility when you do so. If there is an issue with this book then discuss it in your REVIEW when you have actually read the thing. Why is this a confusing concept?
Last, there are the Pilgrims: those who have been given their first miracles, but have not yet vanquished their darkness.I loved the way Maggie took the time to delve into the back stories of so many of the characters.
I don't really feel like there was ever just one main character, because so many different individuals felt so important and crucial to the story, even among the older Sorias and the Pilgrims.✘ WRITINGHow can I review a Maggie Stiefvater book without talking about her writing?
Hi, my name is Sana. I am on page two. I am confused. Pray I make it through this entire book.
I love you Maggie and most of the time, all of your books but this one wasn't for me 😕
As many of you know, I had posted a ranty review on how I think people rating a book 1-star shouldn't do it if they haven't read the book.
But for the most part, All the Crooked Saints tells the story of a family trying to comprehend the sudden rift and the pilgrims trying to find a miracle so they can feel free.It is a story about family and having faith in yourself.The GoodOne thing I liked the most was the good rep of Mexican people.
I absolutely love love loved this. As per usual with Maggie's books, it was full of magic and complex characters. There were some moments in the writing that took my breath away. I had to pause a couple times and reread certain passages. It was just so beautiful.
We almost always can point to that hundredth blow, but we don't always mark the ninety-nine other things that happen before we change.  In a small town in 1960s Colorado, a latinx family of saints performs miracles on pilgrims. But a Soria miracle can only be triggered; the second step of the miracle comes when the pilgrim learns to acknowledge their inner darkness and learn from it.Maggie Stiefvater has a brand. If I were to define that brand, it would be in three things: 1) weird magical vib
But a Soria miracle can only be triggered; the second step of the miracle comes when the pilgrim learns to acknowledge their inner darkness and learn from it.Maggie Stiefvater has a brand.
If I were to define that brand, it would be in three things: 1) weird magical vibes and strange animal imagery, 2) small rural towns, 3) large casts of interesting side characters, 4) emotionally unavailable female leads.
➽So… I generally think Maggie Stiefvater is absolutely great at crafting dynamic casts of side characters, and I think this trend really comes out here.
Full review postedI read the book and loved it so much and yet I understood exactly zero things and if you asked me to tell you what it was about I’d just sink to the floor and stare at the ceiling with blank eyes, bc HOW DO YOU EXPLAIN WHAT THIS BOOK IS- I don’t have enough words or eloquence to describe this book and what it made me feel someone help me- Maggie has this style of writing that’s incredibly dramatic like it doesn’t even make sense but it makes you feel things that you can’t name

That being said, I most likely will never read this book.
Some dickhead flagged my prereview because It stated we shouldn't judge a book before we've actually read it?
Meanwhile, GR has no problem people personally attacking each other, and rating books that aren't even complete yet?
What the fuck is this shit?
Goodreads, you need to get your shit together.
Most readers were angry because The Raven Cycle doesn't have many "nonwhite" people and now you are whining because Maggie is creating a Mexican character?
What the hell is your problem?
If you have an issue, don't read the book!
The atmosphere is marvellous though - it's like you can actually feel the desert's heat on your skin, leaving you thirsty and tired and yet lively and open to any fantastic vision - and the messages behind every miracle, how it's not about being suddenly healed by someone but being faced by your worst nightmare or issue and learn how to overcome it: it's something I enjoyed more than I thought it could be possibile.P.S. as I previously thought, this book's representation of latinx people and their culture is not harmful and the saints' theme isn't problematic at all, having been raised as catholic.pre-reading: (view spoiler)[I was kinda hesitant towards this book, but this interview Maggie Stiefvater did totally sold it to me.P.S. Could people stop giving it one star because of some twitter threads?
“Here's a thing everyone wanted: a miracle. Here's a thing everyone feared: what it takes to get one.” Nestled within the rolling desert hills of Colorado is the small town of Bicho Raro, a town that's neither here nor there but attracts visitors of the strangest kind. It's here Maggie Stiefvater sets her odd but charming, All The Crooked Saints, her first foray into fiction since The Raven Boys ended. The Raven Boys is a favourite of mine, and I wanted this one to be too. But I don't think Mag
It's here Maggie Stiefvater sets her odd but charming, All The Crooked Saints, her first foray into fiction since The Raven Boys ended.
Where I found the quirkiness of the Raven Boys endearing, I found it irritating here, and felt that the realism that grounded the characters was absent.
Joaquin Soria, introduced as someone who wants to be famous but fears dying alone in the parched dust outside Bicho Raro.
Often, it felt as if Stiefvater was overusing iconography and language in order to make this book feel "ethnic" and it ended up feeling fetishised.
2.5 Stars  "Some feelings are rooted too strongly in the body to exist without it, and this one, desire, is one of them.”  Look, no one is more disappointed by this rating than me. Maybe I'm biased, and maybe all of Stiefvater's works will live under a Raven-Boy shaped shadow in my mind-- but this felt like a lot of wasted potential. This odd little book starts strong, introducing the Soria family and their homes in Bicho Raro, a place where miracles happen and you're inner darkness is personifi
Maybe I'm biased, and maybe all of Stiefvater's works will live under a Raven-Boy shaped shadow in my mind-- but this felt like a lot of wasted potential.
Instead of feeling real, these characters felt like place holders for the manifestations of their miracles or their slightly-absurd backstories.
Outside for the main three protagonists, there's over 10 side-characters with plots and personalities to keep track of, and this book was far too short to delve into them all.Or maybe it was the abrupt, silly introductions.
In Conclusion:It's a lot of pretty places and gorgeous words, but the characters and plot feel hollow.
Este libro superó completamente mis expectativas.La puntuación es realmente de 4.5 estrellas, y solo le quito ese .5 porque fue un libro que me hacía dormir cada vez que intentaba leerlo (?)...
(De todos modos, no creo que este sea un libro para todos, solo basta ver la diversidad en opiniones que hay sobre éste).Y la prosa de Maggie en el libro...
Es muy purple prose, muy poética, muy diferente a los otros libros que he leído de ella (o sea, la esencia de su escritura se siente igual, pero en este libro fluye de forma diferente).¿Y el libro en sí?
Es uno de los libros más extraños que he leído...
I absolutely hate that people make these attacks on authors and think it's okay to do so, without even reading the damn book.
You have to know all the facts about something to give a valued opinion that people will listen to and agree with.People throw hate at some authors and when I ask why, they tell me it's for them to learn a lesson and change the way they write in future books, why can't you all give that chance to Maggie?
Judge after you read the book, and even then you don't need to be hateful and rude to authors to share your opinion and point of view.
I do not mean to associate All the Crooked Saints to these genres, obviously (although you never know what people will decide to make of your words, so it is better to just make it clear) but I believe the distance between this book and actual magical realism is reflected in what many believe to be the determining difference between pornography and erotica.
That was truly beautiful.There's this constant feeling that lingers over you while reading a Maggie Stiefvater book,and part of that feeling is the knowledge that you're never going to read anything quite as enchanting as the words you're currently devouring.
Their stories are moving, their motivations authentic.Furthermore, knowing everything that comes with it, all the struggle and loneliness, I still found myself wrapped in a bittersweet sentiment that I couldn't face my own darkness for a miracle.Finally, I cannot speak to the representation in this book.
There are quite a few moments drawing from culture, and I'd really like to know how Latinx readers feel about the representation.
But I hadn't ever ventured into her other work, much less a standalone novel, so I was a bit nervous to read this one.
Just read the dang book!
It's a lovely story that follows a wide variety of characters who are all undergoing their own changes.
And while the story is a bit on the shorter side and possibly could've used more time to develop these characters, I adored the fairytale quality where everything was metaphorical and imaginative and unique.
It reads like a fable or folktale and has the trademark Stiefvater levels of weirdness, which I loved.
Well that was a bit of a disappointment.......I wonder if people realize you can mark a book as "not interested" or "never ever" and express your discontent without marking a star rating...Its almost like its, I don't know, irresponsible or asinine to rate a book no one has actually read.
As if meeting this writing goddess wasn't enough. I got a signed ARC of All the Crooked Saints! AHHHHH!!! *runs around flailing* *dies*
Her characters are easy to fall for; they have depth and this air around them that makes us love them at once.Maggie's imagination has no end.
Have you ever heard of a woman wearing a dress made up of living butterflies that can't fly away because the woman is constantly rained on?
If I compare this book to Maggie's previous works it falls short.
Overall it just wasn't that exciting, and while I loved the characters I still felt quite apart from them.
They were too much imagination and less human, if this makes any sense to you.Now, I know that there is a lot of controversy over this book.
This story of the Soria family comes to you courtesy of quite the natty narrator.
The small Colorado settlement of Bicho Raro is presently packed with pilgrims and the three young Soria cousins are puzzling over the predicament.
Here in the Colorado desert, radio waves reach for transistors as miracles search for saints and owls migrate towards the miracles.
Instead of answers though, each cousin comes up with a distinctly different (and slightly disturbing) question.
A pleasure to read, plenty to ponder, it is perfect for the Young Adult audience; but, I predict this story will resonate with all readers of all ages.
“If you’re missing someone tonight, know that I, Diablo Diablo, am too.
It’s an enormous sky out there with a lot of stars above it and a lot of folks underneath it, and all of us stars and human, are missing someone, that means that we’re all really together on that one note, aren’t we?
"You can hear a miracle a long way after dark, even when you are dying." so fucking beautiful. I love it so much. I especially love the characters and how this isn't just about one particular story. It's not about a story that has a beginning or an ending; it's about the little stories, the ones that nobody knows about, that really matters. It's like the certain lingering smell a person leaves after they're gone; something that stirs up a long forgotten memory into life again. It was so beautif
"You can hear a miracle a long way after dark, even when you are dying."
I love it so much.
I especially love the characters and how this isn't just about one particular story.
It was so beautiful and I love everything about it."I was looking for a miracle, but I got a story instead, and sometimes those are the same things."Here was a thing Brandon wanted: to find the answer to his secret.
Here was a thing Brandon feared: that the answer to his secret might not ever found.
It is, after all, not the tasks people do but the things they do around the edges of them that reveal who they are. They say miracles don’t happen, and that’s true, to an extent.However, in Bicho Raro, that’s something you’ll never hear anyone say.From the dawn of time, the Soria family trades in miracles. For generations, the members of this extraordinary family, the Saints as the pilgrims call them, have helped people in need of redemption on the condition that they’ll never interfere with th
Don’t get me wrong, I knew Stiefvater was good (I have a whole scrapbook of quotes from The Raven Cycle and I’m not sorry), but I didn’t know she could be this good.The style has a sweetness to it that’s different, the usually sharpened edges are rounded and presented with a handshake instead of a middle finger.The entire book reads like a nice chat you might be having with a friend you haven’t seen in awhile, like a story whispered around a campfire.
You can hear a miracle a long way after dark. 4.5 stars, rounded up because yes i'm biased WHO CARESthis is a story about music, owls and miracles. in a teeny town in 1960s Colorado, there's a family of saints who will give you a miracle, if you ask for it. Daniel, Beatriz (my little sister's name!) and Joaquin are the three Soria cousins that we mainly follow throughout the book, accompanying them as they set up their pirate radion station and battle their inner darkness.first off, this book,
because of the fairytale vibes and the use of an omniscient narrator to tell the story, following multiple characters at once (which is a writing device i typically love, and is present in many of my favorite books), i don't feel i know the cousins that well.
i know their personality traits, because they were repeated multiple times to us, but i don't know them in that wonderfully familiar way Maggie manages to convey with her writing.this is a book perfect to be picked up during break, when you can sit in the shade at someplace that's nice and pretty and get lost in a world of deserts, love and saints.(sidenote re: problematic issues.
