https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11166889-the-funhouse
Creepy fun, in the right way!  GIVE A CHANCE TO THE BOOK I had so much "fun" with this book (pun intended). But it was a creepy fun indeed!This novel was written by Dean Koontz but when it was originally published it was under the pseudonym of "Owen West". The decision to do it under other name I think it was because it was the novelization of a movie and so Dean Koontz wasn't too eager to be related with it if it happens to be bad. Well, the movie was bad BUT the book was good, real......GOOD!
But it was a creepy fun indeed!This novel was written by Dean Koontz but when it was originally published it was under the pseudonym of "Owen West".
Well, the movie was bad BUT the book was good, real......GOOD!!!You will notice that almost all people refer negative to the film, however there is a lot of praise to the book version.So, it wasn't any surprise that when they decided to re-publish the novel, they did then with Dean Koontz name real clear and big on the cover.
Also, until that moment, I was reading novels of Dean Koontz but in Spanish-translated editions, so this was my first novel by him on its original English language format.
First reading- Oh so long ago...in my younger days- 3-stars.Second reading- as a...semi-mature person-1-star.
I remember buying this off the rack at Lucky's in Fontana, California, taking it home, and reading it all in one sitting.
was all about this book.
It was violent and creepy and quickly became one of my favorite Koontz novels.
All I can say is, Teenage E.
All I can say is, Teenage E.
This book is terrible.
sweet baby Tom Cruise, it's some of the worst I've read.
To anyone I have ever recommended this to, my deepest, most sincerest apologies.In summation: Teenage E.
gave this book 4 stars.
Final Judgment: One of Koontz's worst.
Boy, did I ever hate this book!It was originally released decades ago under a pen name.
When the audio came up for free, I jumped on the chance, because I loved Dean Koontz back in the day.
I was wrong.There were so many cliches in this book, it became sad.
The characters were predictable and (surprise!) cliche.
There was potential here but nothing original came out of this story.
I would have been pissed if I had paid money for this audio book.I'm sorry, but I can't recommend it for anyone-least of all fans of horror.
Not what I was expecting, and I'm pretty neutral towards the story, I didn't love it but I didn't hate it, either. It wasn't the most original, I could list off a ton of film and book titles with extremely similar plots right off the bat, but it was a somewhat entertaining book all the same.
I stole it from my mom's bookshelf in 8th grade and I remember it being the first definitive adult novel I ever read.
I don't remember the sequence of events,or even what it was about, but I do recall one awkward moment.
I was in homeroom and had just finished a gruesome rape scene when my homeroom teacher walked by and in passing said "Oh, I've read that".
I was mortified at the thought of my teacher reading having read the same rape scene as I did, and I don't think I brought it to school after that.Thank you Mr. Koontz for showing me what was out there.
Il Tunnel dell'Orrore (The Funhouse, ma noto anche come Carnival of Terror) è un film slasher/horror
Video Reseña: https://www.youtube.com/edit?o=U&...Una novela que nos remonta al horror de los años 80.
Es una novela corta, que va generando una atmósfera de suspenso e intriga a medida que pasan las páginas, los protagonistas principales son interesantes, pero el mayor logro se lo llevan los antagonistas, que sin dudas, para mi, fueron lo mejor del libro.
No podía dejar de encontrar similitudes del libro con las películas slasher de los años 80, y esto tiene una explicación.
Es de las primeras obras de Koontz, de hecho originalmente se publicó bajo el pseudónimo de Owen West, para luego ser reeditado con el nombre verdadero del autor.
Goodreads Horror Week 2018I thought this was an ok book. It became very good vs evil, God vs. satan. The end was a bit to quick and easy for my taste. There was a great buildup, then....that's it? Ah well, still a decent read worthy of 3 stars.
It plunges into the abyss of despair immediately, does a few bumps and curves along the way, but never raises high enough so that you can feel the sun shining full force on your face.Koontz’s style changes a bit from some books; here he writes well, enhances his characters to an amazing degree, describes things with fine detail but not overly so to where it becomes repetitive, and take care to allow terror to shine through when it should.The Funhouse beams with an incredible array of colors.
I can take the next thing that comes along.' You must do the thing you think you can not do."-Anna RooseveltThis book is definitely creepy.The Funhouse is one of the last in-print Koontz books for me to read.
The Funhouse recently became available in audiobook format for the first time in 2015, which is why I finally got around to reading it.
Reading The Funhouse, the Koontz fan will see connections to both Twilight Eyes and Hideaway, which Dean would later write.
Leaves rustled like the starched, black skirts of witches.______"Sick," she said again, looking at the Halloween mask in her hand.
I honestly didn't know what to expect from this book, since it was one of Koontz older books, and also written under a pseudonym. But surprisingly, I liked it, I had read that a lot of people hated this one but I thought it was pretty good. The storyline is intriguing and the plot is very easy to follow. Barely seems to drag at all, and I liked the carnival setting. A fun and easy read.
Siempre tengo muy poca expectativa con este autor, pienso que es la copia mala de King, debido a su gran número de libros, temas, época… Pero este hombretón escribe bien.
Esto no quita que te guste y empáticas con los personajes tan bien definidos.En este volumen encontramos el deseo de venganza de un feriante hacia su ex mujer, la que mato a su hijo debido a que ese intento matarla a ella (muy gore, aún más si sabes que el niño no llega a 1 año) La venganza será en el futuro hacia su hijo/a/as/os.
Ese futuro llegará, el cual será la historia presente del libro.
The carnival is always a unique, exciting setting for any horror novel. Amidst all the freaks, gloomy funhouses, maniacally grinning clowns, and … well, candy, there’s a man with a mission. To seek out and destroy his ex-wife’s children, the ex-wife who had taken away his own mutated son. Besides this juicy tidbit, there’s also a misled creature that delights in killing innocent men and raping/shredding apart women in each town it visits.One thing that really made The Funhouse work was the char
It plunges into the abyss of despair immediately, does a few bumps and curves along the way, but never raises high enough so that you can feel the sun shining full force on your face.Koontz’s style changes a bit from some books; here he writes well, enhances his characters to an amazing degree, describes things with fine detail but not overly so to where it becomes repetitive, and take care to allow terror to shine through when it should.The Funhouse beams with an incredible array of colors.
The story we were promised sounds like it would be good:"Years after leaving the carnival, her hated first husband, and the child she could never love, Ellen has a new life, a new husband, and two beautiful children, but now the carnival is coming back to town, and Ellen is going to have to pay for her sins."But, Ellen is only part of the set-up of this story.
Once the focus shifts to Ellen's "two beautiful children" going off to enjoy a night at the carnival we never even hear from Ellen again.
Instead Koontz uses this weak set-up to write a teen-age slasher book.
That would be a negative star. It has never taken me so long to choke down a book in my life. It started off good and then it went downhill from there. I wish I could get those hours back I wasted reading this trash.
this is the first dean koontz book I've read after a lot of people recommended him to be a great author ~ I can confirm I loved this book 😊 it was gripping right from the beginning I didn't want to put the book down I am impressed and I will be reading more books by dean koontz!!
I am a HUGE fan of Dean Koontz books, and I've read dozens of them, usually enjoying every page and finding myself unable to put them down.
Admittedly, the only reason I actually finished the entire book was my twisted curiosity for what would actually happen in the end, and which characters would live or die.
Even that was a big disappointment, as the book just kind of ends, after much unbelievable hoopla, that is.
The characters aren't the richly developed people that I've come to take for granted in his books.
The author even (kind of) apologized for it in the book's final pages.
I love the carnival theme set to this book. Koontz wrote an exceptional story of the triumph of good over evil, with a twist of how too much religious good can be overbearing to a child. Kids can be rebellious and the circus is in town, which makes for a great escape for a child, or does it
Like the 80's horror movie of the same name, cheesy and wonderful!
I adore the campy film this is a novelization of, but just 96 pages in, I'm already hating the out of left field motivations and backgrounds Koontz is tacking on to Ellen, Amy, and the Carnival barker.
Also, is it necessary to have the funhouse monster be related in some way to Amy or her family to make it creepy?
When Ellen had to essentially wrestle with her demon baby on the ground and deal with foul, yellow satan spittle and his talon toenails I checked out.
In the film she looked to be at least in her late 50s' and was dealing with people not taking her seriously.
After giving Ellen hell for what she did, he kicked her out and vowed that he would kill her child if she were ever to have one.Then, the story moved to Amy and Joey Harper in New Maple.
By then, Ellen has morphed into an obsessive-compulsive fanatic Christian and also an alcoholic as a form of escapism from her nightmarish past and delusion.At first, I thought I would fall in love for this book, the dilemma undergone by the kids (Amy and Joey) stoutly held my attention since the very beginning of the book.
It was, like much of early eighties horror, a fun, thrilling kind of scary, not a creepy evil kind of scary.
It is a horror book and filled with horrors.On the negative side, (Some spoilers here)I couldn't quite follow if Gunther and Victor were supposed to be true evil natured beings, or if they were just radically deformed and unlucky.
Victor is shown as a monster in the first chapter through the eyes of Ellen, who had, what, like twelve shots of whiskey?
Or did the innocent child with deformities appear evil to her because she is a completely insane hardcore alcoholic?I can draw my own conclusions.
As a teenager, Ellen Giavenetto got tired of her dismal life in the home of her kind, but meek, father and her angry, overly religious mother, and decided to run away with a handsome carney, Conrad Straker, who owned and operated the famous Funhouse.
Drinking heavily, Ellen went into her son, Joey's, bedroom at night to watch him sleep, looking for signs of evil in him, as well.When the carnival came to town, Conrad discovered Amy and Joey and they were placed in danger that they never imagined.
Did Conrad exact his revenge on Ellen through her children?
It took me a while to read it and it wasn't because the book itself was slow, you know life gets in the way, stress blah, blah, blah...ANYHOO...What if your mother was like so religious and thought you were like the evilest and to get back at her you run away and take up with carnies?
She later gets a divorce, the carny way...oh, and the child...well, i don't want to ruin it for you.A few years later, Ellen is remarried and has two children but she is still tormented by her devil child.
Once she met Conrad, a carnie, Ellen knew he was the one.
After talking for two weeks they got married and lived the carnie life, traveling around the country.
But Conrad makes a devastating promise to Ellen that will be in the back of her mind her whole life.
If you love a mystery book, The Funhouse is a great book with suspense throughout the whole story.
It starts out straight to the point of the story and makes you want to read more.
It’s a great thriller with tons of details and is very well written by the author Dean Koontz.
When this novel first came out, it was something new.
I love carnivals; the creepier and sleazier, the better - and thought this was right up my alley.
It turned out to be really freaking scary.This is actually a novelization of the film, directed by Tobe Hooper and not released until a year or two after the book.
This is so much scarier as a novel.
The female protagonist was close enough to me in years, her descisions could have been mine, her children even reminded me of myself at a younger age.
Psychologically speaking, it was the perfect horror novel for myself at 19.
A scary ride through a terrifying psych...He scared me to shivers.
If a horror/paranormal writer can scare me to that level, take my word for it, it's downright terrorizing reading.
Koontz is a master storyteller and character developer as can be seen in his leading characters.
Amy was conflicted until the very end when she grew up and could tell evil from real life.
The Funhouse is a hypnotic, enthralling story from beginning to end and it was difficult to put down for such mundane activities as making a living.I highly recommend this book for all readers of the horror/paranormal genre.
Bravo, Mr. Koontz.Gaston Sanders, Author
This book was a fun and creepy ride. I found it hard to put down and there were very few places where it dragged. The carnival setting is great, I've always thought carnivals were a little creepy, so this was the perfect backdrop for a horror story. My only criticism is that I hate the overly religious, fire and brimstone, condemning mother cliche that was in this book as well as others that I've read. I also felt that it ended very abruptly, an epilogue would have been nice.
I as going to give it one star, but couldn't. It's a bad potboiler, a great example that teenage slasher-carnival themed moies should never be novelised. I think only VC Andrews could have pulled of such story with grace; she's the queen of trashy books after all. Koontz fails at this; but after all he was still a developing writer and needed the money to fuel his career and write better books.
