https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77449.Here_be_Dragons
I used to have a rule: You will read at least fifty pages before you decide to quit a book.Then a few years ago, I vowed to completely finish every book I start.
Sometimes I just wanted to scream, “PICK LLEWELYN AND BE DONE WITH IT!” But then I made an odd, modern-day comparison that helped me appreciate where Penman was coming from: imagine your dad is a serial killer.
Eventually the audience questions got Penman talking about her writing process.

This seems especially so of King John;(3) FLOW: unlike some Historical novels, the author doesn't try to push too many facts on you at the expense of the story pacing;(4) HIGHLIGHTS THE BIG CONFLICTS OF HISTORY: some authors gloss over the big moments b/c they're trying to get everything into the Historical novels.
Penman doesn't necessarily feel obligated to do this and puts more emphasis towards the structureand flow of the story.
Just a book she had read a long time ago that she remembered loving.
The marriage, which could have and should have brought about peace between the two nations, only put Joanna, who loved both her Norman-French/English father and eventually her charismatic Welsh husband, in the middle.After I finished reading, I spent a good deal of time researching the accuracy of the facts presented in the book.
The struggles over choosing heirs and the family feuds that any transfer of power creates, were believable and likely.Most importantly, when applying this history lesson to our current times, I realized human nature doesn't change much...even eight-hundred years later.
I didn't like the author's writing style, treatment of the period, or copious infodumps that were awkwardly wedged into the prose (which was pedestrian at best).
"I do hope none of our children ever ask me which Welsh word I did learn first!" Llewelyn had taken her into a closer embrace; she could feel his hands under her bedrobe, and she sighed, said softly, "I think, though, that I shall call it Merlin, in honor of the miracles it did work last night."...I'm not sure which is worse: the linguistic infodump itself, or the cheesy schmoop that's wedged into an otherwise pedantic nonfiction tome.
I really don't think I need to write a long involved review for the truly magnificent and very well known novel 'Here be Dragons' by Sharon Penman.
I love it and it is my favourite of all Sharon's historical novels.
Even though it is a very long book I never want it to finish for it maintains my full interest and fascination throughout and leaves me always wanting more.
I would recommend it most highly for anyone who enjoys top quality historical novels.
Thank you Sharon for years of thoroughly exciting and wonderful reading of all your books but especially this one!
Sharon Kay Penman is a fantastic author and she took me to a time and place that I haven't read much about...13th Century Wales.The book tells the story of Llewelyn, the Prince of North Wales, and his rise to power and fame as Llewelyn the Great and his great love, Joanna, the illegitimate daughter of King John.
In the quest for Wales Llewelyn and King John become bitter enemies and Joanna is forced to choose between loyalty to her beloved...but ruthless...father or the husband she was commanded to marry for political reasons but with whom she ended up falling in love.This book was over 700 pages of fantastic reading!!
If you’re the kind of reader who reads historical fiction to learn history, you will learn a great deal about the period, about Wales and about the personalities involved, and since I’m not a historian I can’t tell you whether it’s accurate or not.Penman writes well, puts words into the characters’ mouths that don’t generally sound either too modern or too deliberately olde-worlde, and covers, as far as I can see, a great deal of the known history of the time.
Gratifying. There was never a moment in this book when I felt bored getting lectured on the history of 13th century Wales and a great Welsh prince named Llewelyn. Miss Penman has vividly captured the action, gore, romance, intrigue and whatnot of this medieval period...and what more can I say? I’m entranced.
I know I will not do this review justice as there are no adequate words for this book and I am writing on high emotions and no planning of my thoughts.
SKP has a way of making medieval England and Wales come alive.
Historical fiction is my first love and I have a feeling in the future I will measure all historical books to SKP’s writing.
If you love a good romp through medieval times then I strongly suggest picking this magnificent book up.
I will say it’s a little slow going the first 50-100 pages but do not be discouraged and hang in there for you will be rewarded.
Yes, his bad deeds are all there, but it was interesting to see more of the man behind the tyrannical myth.Back in Wales, I also enjoyed the story of Joanna and Llewelyn, although they both began to irritate me after a while - she became too whiney, and he was too earnest and two-dimensional.
There were a few surprising twists in Joanna and Llewelyn’s story, and in the hands of another author, I would assume that they were pure fiction, but with Penman, I knew I’d find confirmation that the twists were true.This is my fourth Penman book, and although The Sunne in Splendour is my favourite, Here Be Dragons has had the most fluidity for me so far.
When you read this book, you need a quiet corner with no distractions.
You need to be able to emerge yourself into Penman's saga to enjoy it to it's fullest.
The main characters are Joanna "King John's illegitimate daughter" and Llewelyn The Great.
King John marries Joanna off to his rival and into Llewelyn's Welsh world.
Penman covers 1183-1234.
My only complaint is that I would have enjoyed a list of characters at the beginning, just to help keep everyone in line.
If you enjoy Elizabeth Chadwick and Susan Higginbotham you will love Sharon Penman.
The characters in Here be Dragons live and breath like I would never have thought possible for people that died almost 800 years ago.
Maintaining historical accuracy in how these people thought, spoke and lived makes their vivid reality even more amazing.
There are dozens of characters in Dragons, yet I managed to remember them all, because their personalities were so well defined.Her portrayal of the English King John is the most objective and rounded that I've read.
As a result, she made him sympathetically human - something that no other author I've read has done.Joanna is a perfect heroine - the kind that makes mistakes and has insecurities.
Much has already been said about this excellent novel, so suffice to say that I enjoyed reading it, and that I look forward to completing the trilogy.
Many people has recommended that I try a Sharon Kay Penman, but I felt a bit intimidated for two reason - firstly by the size of the books and secondly I was worried it may be too highbrow for my taste.
I even enjoyed the romance and war strategy aspects of the story.
Highly recommended to anyone who enjoys Philippa Gregory.The story: England's power-hungry King John arranges a marriage between his youngest daughter, Joanna, and his rival, Llewelyn, Prince of North Wales, a young leader who intends to unite all of Wales, in a saga set against the vivid backdrop of thirteenth-century Wales.
I LOVE historical fiction.
But I cannot for the life of me get into this book!
And that's disappointing b/c this author wrote many and I was hopeful of having lots of nice, long books to read.
There are too many characters and too much going on.
And YES, it's history, and there WERE a lot of characters and a lot going on.
Penman doesn't give you enough time with any given person or issue for you to be able to give a damn about it.I'm not finished with the book, but I think I'm gonna call it quits.
It's like reading a mystery that's a true story and knowing how easy it would be to simply look up the facts, find out whodunnit and who died a horrible death etc., and also feeling wretched because here you are sympathising with people long dead.
It was like a slightly dry, academic historian was giving a voice-over during a reenactment-documentary, which has the effect of pulling you back to the present and reminding you that it's 2010 and all this is, literally, history.This completely contradicts the aim of a story, to make you sink into it and bring the characters to life - and sometimes you are so engrossed you even forget where you are and nearly miss your subway stop (my apologies to the lady in the red coat who I barged into as I dashed through the closing doors).
Opening: July 1183, Shropshire, EnglandHe was ten years old and an alien in an unfriendly land, made an unwilling exile by his mother's marriage to a Marcher border lord. His new stepfather seemed a kindly man, but he was not of Llewelyn's blood, not one of the Cymry, and each dawning day in Shropshire only intensified Llewelyn's heartsick longing for his homeland.#61 TBR Busting 2013Why did I wait so long before reading? This was lovely.
Let's just say I lost sleep to keep reading this page-turner of a historical novel. Set in England, Wales, and France, and starring the aristocracy and royal families of the late 1100's and early 1200's. The main story line surrounds Joanna, a daughter of John I of England. Most of us remember him as Robin Hood's nemesis... Robin supported John's brother Richard Lionheart. But old Robin's not in this tale. It's told from a wholly different viewpoint.A co-worker recommended this author. So far, I think I've found yet another "keeper". So many books. So little time.
It has taken me a month to read all 700 pages.
I haven't taken that long to read a book since The Lord of the Rings trilogy.
It wasn't getting to the romance quick enough for me and it was a little confusing to remember all of the characters.
My friend Jill told me the romance between Llewelyn and Joanna was one of her top favorites.
By then I was hooked, but that was at least 250 pages into it.
I wasn't sure by page 600 that I would be able to rate it as high as my friend.

This is one of my favorite books ...I don't believe the story she has fabricated within the web of historical figures and happenings but I loved d it none the less.
I fell in love with the characters most had lived a life similar to what goes on here but much it far from the truth I am certain.
This was the first book in the trilogy and the best of the 3 IMHO.
It was the great love she was able to bring to life for me that had this one standing out from the other two.
A wonderful book, Here Be Dragons is definitely one of my favourite novels ever.I very rarely cry reading books but the tears were definitely there for this one ...and I have read the book multiple times before.Sharon Penman brings the twelfth and thirteenth centuries to life and her characterisations seem so plausible. If you like historical fiction then I highly recommend this book. It is a modern classic.
Despite a time period anchored and defined by war, Penman does a good job of giving you a few snippets of exciting war strategies instead of lengthy descriptions of tedious war so she could focus the bulk of her 700 pages on the conflicting passions and motives that drive war, particularly those of King John of England, Llewelyn the Great of Wales, and Johana, John's daughter and Llewelyn's wife.
Throw in interchanging titles and Penman's alternating between the two without a heads up reminder of which character each one was particularly when they were only mentioned once a 100 pages ago and many times I was completely lost on minor issues.
This is hands down my favorite book.
On the other hand it's about the relationship between Joanna (illegitimate daughter of King John) and Llewelyn (prince of Wales).
Ultimately it is a timeless love story, but not just between a couple.
It explores the complex emotions of the relationships between father and daughter, mother and children, step-mother and step-children and ruler to people.I have forbidden myself to read this book during the school year as it never fails to keep me wholly occupied to the finish.
I have learned the hard way that life goes on hold when I am in the grips of this magnificent story.
Surprisingly enough, I was able to find this (semi) rare book in my scant city library, and it was completely worth it.
I love being able to make English connections and this swashbuckling novel is no exception.
The more I read about John Plantagenet, the more I don't like him, despite half the book depicting him in a positive fashion.
The protagonist, Llwelyn ab IIorewth is one of my new favorite characters, up there with Wesley from the Princess Bride, John of Gaunt from Katherine and Aragorn from Lord of the Rings.
Like Katherine, there is romance, tension, adventure and war.
Here Be Dragons spans 51 years of Welsh and English history (from 1183 to 1234), focusing on the lives of three main characters: Llewelyn, the Prince of Gwynedd; King John of England; and Joanna, John's illegitimate daughter and Llewelyn's wife.
I often felt like I lost track of the characters due to their rapid aging; Llewelyn, for instance, pops in and out of the narrative for the first 20 years covered, remaining distant from the reader up until his marriage with Joanna.
But any book with this many 5-star reviews has obviously hit on something, and Here Be Dragons has a winning combination: excellent history, but wonderfully readable, turning the characters into people who are fully realized and sympathetic.
I think what I love about Penman’s novels (aside from her obvious talent for sentence structure and superior vocabulary) are the many view points and characters who all have so much depth.
One characteristic of Penman’s novels is occasionally (especially in the beginning) telling a chapter from a view point of a minor, almost insignificant character who is then never featured again.
I recall there being a romance in “When Christ and His Saints Slept” with a fictional character but it was one of many story lines whereas Joanna and Llewelyn’s marriage was the sole focus of the book at times.
However, she and Llewelyn grow to love each other, and as they do, Joanna's loyalties are tested when her husband and her father come into inevitable conflict.Penman is one of the best historical novelists I've read.
Penman even manages to make King John, widely considered one of the worst of English monarchs, sympathetic in his fears and inadequacies and his love for his daughter, and Joanna and Llewelyn are just wonderful.
I'm very happy that I still have two more books to read in the trilogy, as I was sad to finish Here Be Dragons and let go of the world Penman had created so masterfully.
After reading the many complimentary reviews, I almost couldn't sleep I was so excited to get my hands on this book.
I just can't read this any more.
Not Llewelyn's, he's (by far the most interesting character) barely been featured in the ten years I've covered.
I mean things happen, but mostly I find out about them by characters discussing them afterwards rather than showing the characters living through the events themselves.
Llewellyn spends years battling and conquering his uncles to become Prince of Wales and none of it is shown.
