https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112803.The_Story_of_My_Experiments_With_Truth
fundamentally changed my view of the world...Oft In My ThoughtAh, how often I have sought in my days
There is absolutely no passion within his writing, no fire, no strength and certainly no sense of long term goals or aspirations within the first few hundred pages.
Gandhi the leader, Gandhi the man who has inspired thousands, did not come across in much of the writing here.
He is narrating his life retrospectively, from a position of success and influence, yet this Gandhi does not appear in the pages.
Certainly, he speaks of following a pure and truthful life, though after reading his words I was never convinced with the reasons he puts forth.
The merits of such a life speak for themselves, but Gandhi did not convey it here.
He faithfully records small personal struggles, giving them the same wieght as major political battles.
The autobiography ends in 1920, right around the time Gandhi became an international figure.
The major historical events leading up to Independence are outside the scope of the book, but it's fascinating to watch Gandhi become Gandhi during the first half of his life.
Like all autobiographies, this one leaves out much helpful background information about people, places, and evets, so I frequently put down the book to Googgle.
Next I would love to read a third person biography to fill in some more of the gaps.
Those who think that they cannot defend or promote ideals without the use of violence are either ignorant or (more likely) lazy, because the non-violent path is much, much harder to walk than the violent one.
The writing of Gandhi is all about the individual having dignity and independence - that self respect comes from respecting others.
I think that those who have not read Gandhi have an overly simplified vision of the man; that he was simply a pacifist or an unrealistic dreamer.
But he was primarily concerned with erasing social injustice; non-violence was simply the best means to his ends.

For the most part, Gandhi spends time talking about the little details in his life before he became famous.
This may lead some people to feel like the book is meandering.
While this book does not talk a lot about his theories on non-violence or his time in South Africa (I believe there is a separate book for that), it is impossible not to walk away from reading this book and feel inspired.
Ultimately, I think this book can make you a better person if you have an interest in Gandhi's life and philosophies and approach with an open mind and persist through the small amount of less relevant information.
Intended for a very limited audience My copy of the book had torn spine, small print, dog-eared cover and the quality of paper so inferior, that it set a new precedent for me -- but I shouldn't complain because a friend of mine had lent it to me. Let me first clarify something about this book's genre. Gandhi says in the foreword that this book was a memoir of 'his experiments with truth', thus the subtitle; but he particularly says that this was not an autobiography. He gives his reasons for t
It is a straight-forward, old-school autobiography that begins with birth and leads up to the moment the author is writing the book.My own dislike for the book is rooted in the fact that I am not the audience Gandhi had in mind.
He followed these rules to the T.Honestly, if you want me to judge Gandhi from this book, I'll say he is like a lonely person who lacked self-esteem; someone without an iota of individuality.
This may be because they're the kind of audience Gandhi was writing for.
One of those books that needs to be read periodically if only to remind yourself that someone out there sometime thought that transformation, liberation, hell just plain living, without violence was possible.
And this is what the man Gandhi believed: that unless that hostility disappeared and was replaced by this other power, any social good you could achieve would not be lasting, would not even be worth it.
What would it be like for you and me to fight the biggest battle, the one Gandhi fought, the one that takes place inside of you, the one between your Self and the anger that fills you?
One of the most influential people to have ever lived. This book should be essential reading for anyone working in the legal sector, in social justice and human rights, and anyone remotely interested in contemporary history and the great men and women of our time.
Description: In 1999, this book was designated as one of the ''100 Most Important Spiritual Books of the Twentieth Century'' by HarperCollins Publishers.''When I despair, I remember that all through history the way of truth and love has always won.
Gandhi was an inspiring figure of the twentieth century, a man whose quest to live in accord with God's highest truth led him to initiate massive campaigns against racism, violence, and colonialism.
أحب قراءة السيّر لأنها تمنحنا حياة آخرى و تجارب أكثر ,و سيرة غاندي من أروع السير الحياتيه.
From here to his teenage years its pretty exciting and an overall page turner.
Anyway I found that the chapters later on that involved his life in England overall drab and boring.
One thing that I found unbelievably interesting is that as lawyer he completely refused to defend any clients who committed the deed they were convicted of, even friends.
However in the case of his friends he wouldn’t defend their case, but moreover persuade others to let the case drop (if he believed the convicted had already suffered enough shame.)The ending of the book is by far the best, where all ends meet and the impossible is occurring.
I shared the emotion and found Gandhi a kindred soul, but I failed to find an intellectually satisfying argument which could hold up against, say, a sociopath's or a politician's reasonings.What I did find was a very engaging fellow, conversant with the West and their traditions, as well as with his own culture, a cosmopolitan from the other side of the world who conveys a sense of utter guilelessness yet whom you know was a practical and very successful politician on terms substantially of his own choosing.In this light, an anecdote: When Gandhi, in 1931, stopped for an audience with Italy's head of state, he was met by Mussolini and his family.

بدت في البداية ممتعة، وممتعة جدا حتى أني تجاوزت المائة صفحة في مدة وجيزة، سرني أن أتعرف عن قرب على جزء من المجتمع الهندي وهم الهندوس وبعض عاداتهم في القرن الماضي..
لا أعلم لم لكني فعلا وأنا أقرأ أشعر أن في الجمل شيء من عدم السهولة او الوضوح او المباشرة، في حين كان بامكان المترجم أن يكون أكثر سلاسة..
طباعة النسخة غير جيدة و وغير واضحة مع ان نسختي جديدة وبتغليفها البلاستيكي لكن وجدت الكثير من الصفحات علي وشك التمزق..
أعجبني جدا أنه لم يأبه كثيرا بكلام طائفته حين قرر السفر للدراسة في حين انهم قاطعوه واعتبروه منبوذا..في هذه السيرة الكثير من الاشياء المحفزة والمملة والعظيمة والعادية.
His princples about vegetarianism was amazing experience , I believe every one of us need to follow him .The core principle of all this ideas will change your life forever as mine .
The search for TRUTH , Believe me this would be a breath taking experience which would change your life forever , As Mahatma Gandhi says every body needs a Guru , I have chosen Mahatma Gandhi as my Guru being his Student , I am in search of TRUTH and I have started My Experiments with Truth .
First thing - This rating and review is not for Gandhiji and his persona, albeit the way this autobiography is written.Its not very easy to describe conflicting thoughts and dilemmas.
And yet Gandhiji has described his concepts of life in a lucid way."Experiments" is the highlight, and the content does justice to the title.
He has captured in details the experiments on food, treatment with mud and water, way of life, thought process on indulgence and abstinence.
Its an autobiography!)- Could be better if there are more encounters about his relation with wife and kids (which appears neglected)- Lagged in some parts of South Africa where it turned to only factual descriptions and no insights.Overall:A prized and cherishable read.
It might be true for most people tagged as 'great' but the way people in India obsesses for Gandhi either considering him really great or awesome on one hand or calling him wicked on other without being willing to see any shades of grey in him is really too much.To be honest there are two Gandhis - one is the real Gandhi and the other is the idea of him that is attached to an almost ridiculous faithfulness to non-violence and truth which features in movies like 'Lage Raho Munna Bhai'.
قد يستغرب البعض لما سأقوله هنا أنا "لست" من المعجبين بشخصية غاندي .. .. وخلال قراءة هذا الكتاب تأكدت من ذلكشخصيته الانطوائية، شديدة الخجل وسأكون جريئة وأقول سلبية حققت ما لم يحققه الكثير وخلقت مفهوم جديد للمقاومةلماذا إذا منحت الكتاب 4 نجوم؟! لأن الكتاب يندرج تحت تصنيف الكتب التي تتربع على عرش نوعيتي المفضلة "السيرة الذاتية" وأيضاً الكتاب مكتوب بطريقة جميلة .. .. والأهم من ذلك أن تأثير غاندي الإيجابي في العالم بمقاومته السلبية أمر يدعو للإعجاب سواء شئت أم أبيت
"My experiments with truth" describes perfectly the stoic life of Gandhiji!
How he developed himself through 'good company', 'good books' and 'self-will'.This writing is an Apotheosis for showing,"Winners are not born, they are made!"I thought this book will be more about British East India and our Freedom struggle but its basically about "experiments" of Gandhiji in his journey and it's remarkable how he sticked to his beliefs!Though many of his beliefs or rules I didn't find right(or orthodox, sometimes too rigid and impractical), it does not deter my respect for him in any way!
Orwell: “Saints should always be judged guilty until they are proven innocent.” Gandhi may be a saint, but he is one fussy holy man.
He had become famous for leading a civil rights movement for Indians in South Africa where he lived for years before taking the “satyagraha” movement back to India.
On the way, he is a young anglophile who admires the Empire, studies law in London and sides with the colonial powers during the Boer wars and WWI.
He falls in with all sorts of vegetarian quacks in Victorian London and learns about world religions, including his own, from Western sources: Max Muller, Tolstoy, Ruskin, and Madame Blavatsky!
It needs a revolution which is both religious and scientific..It needs revolution of Capitalism and birth control..Capitalism in my sense is freedom for every individual out of dogmas of religion..caste..all which is oppressive and repressive.People like Gandhi were against this type of revolutions..he is spiritual in "Indian sense" but not materialist..He is religious again "in so called Indian sense"..but not scientific..and always We Indian's have there own way of approaching things..and result was of "CONTINUOUS SLAVERYOF 2000 YEARS"..and of course we have a great name for it"HOSPITALITY"..When India can wake from it's stupid safeties of Caste..Religion..then only it have future..or again there will be Mahatmas to dig grave for India..
There have been many other people whom I have admired and looked up to but then all of them have failed in my eyes at some time or other but not Mahatma Gandhi.
This book brought in me that confidence and faith which I needed at that time.
I have found that in the end it is my faith and conviction which has seen me through the darkest times.
I know there are lot of people out there who do not agree for what he has written in this book and in fact criticize him for his experiments on education, medicine, celibacy, religion, freedom struggle.
فلم أستطع التماشي مع معتقداته ومبادئهالتي لطالما قرأتها في اقتباساتٍ له أو حكمولكن، يبدوا بأنه يجيد لكّ الكلمة في فاههِ فقطساعده كثيراً عناده وفراسته للوصول لمتطلعاتهالتي كثيراً ما شعرتُ بتورطه فيها أصلاًفقد كان يعلمُ جيداً كيف يظل في دائرة الحظويستخدمُ الأشخاص المناسبين في الوقت المناسبوهذا ما ميزهوفيما يتعلق عن بحثه عن الحقيقة ..
وككثيرٍ من الأمور التي كان يودّ الإلتزام بها مع عائلته فهو لم يلتزم فانتهى به الأمر لعدم تعليمهمولا أستطيع تجاوز التعجبِ أيضاًمن إيمانه الذي كان يدفعه بالإكتفاء بالنباتيةوالتي أدخلته في مآزق صحية كثيره له ولعائلتهولا زال مقتنعاً بأهلية هذا النظام الغذائيختاماًغاندي شخصٌ أحدثَ فرقاًلكنهُ ليس قدوة
The autobiography is full of surprises: At one point in his youth, Gandhi became convinced that India was behind the times because of vegetarianism, so he vowed to convert all of his homeland to carnivorious wisdom.
Perhaps the only vow he did not keep.Would that his teachings on non-violent resistance (satyagraha) were more widely applied.
Detractors argue, however, that this strategy could really work only in India, where it appeals to such deeply ingrained cultural foundations as Patanjali's ahimsa (non-violence), itself a Hindu appropriation of a Jainist principle.
In some other cultures, where those associations do not exist, nobody would much notice or care.
Extremely interesting view of the growth and spiritual development of one of the most illuminating figures of the last century. Covers a wide variety of topics. A shame that it only ends in the 1920s (but what autobiography could ever be called complete?), but it is still a fascinating portrait of the man.
But I feel like writting now because I've got something to say now.
I tentaivley picked up this book and that is how I am making my way through the pages.
I can't get through a page without watching his struggle with a thought, idea or truth.
I'm angry because to persue God is hard, and I haven't been doing anything hard.
I'm angry because I don't feel like doing anything hard, and this will always be hard.
And Im mad because to persue God changes everything else in your life.
So, at page 37 I'm mad and only a little wistful.

Should have read this book long ago...............having read so much about the Mahatama. Absolutely remarkable and inspiring. Experiments with truth, truthfully narrated. Clearly demonstrates the power of mental and physical discipline and public confession.
These type of characters often have a certain personality type or ethical vantage point from which they view the world and their actions are constant and understandable within that framework.
When we look at Gandhis life through his own eyes we see the absolute complexity of him as a person despite his desire for consistency and his search for what he calls "truth".
Or he will be seen as being the one who through his own choices and actions created the self and lived a life of complexity through his strivings and through his seeking against striving until the end.
