https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16424.Peril_at_End_House
Peril at End House (Hercule Poirot #8), Agatha ChristiePeril at End House is a work of detective fiction by Agatha Christie first published in the US by the Dodd, Mead and Company in February 1932 and in the UK by the Collins Crime Club in March of the same year.
Peril at End House is a work of detective fiction by British writer Agatha Christie, first published in the US by the Dodd, Mead and Company in February 1932 and in the UK by the Collins Crime Club in March of the same year.
So, yes 4.5 stars for certain, Poirot at his superior best and Hastings playing the foil to a "T".
Following the denouement, I did remember it (Bloody obvious that really) but I still hadn't got it with about 15 pages to go, and that is what reading a good "murder mystery" is all about.
As one of my author friends says "keep 'em guessing till the end" and she did.This is a well crafted book, the location is, although fictitious, set in one of my favourite counties in the UK and truly beautiful, the characters are well described, human and flawed, and Poirot is just his mysterious and superior best.
Peril at End House, the eighth book in the Hercule Poirot cozy mystery series, was selected as the next book to read in the April 2018 Agatha Christie Readathon that I'm hosting on my blog at This Is My Truth Now. Four weeks of books from all her different series and lots of fun with her canon.
People are complicated and really need guidance in life, and it was interesting to see how Poirot can fill that role sometimes.My only slight concern with this one and why I give it a ~4 is that the ending was a little confusing at the same time as open to a bit of interpretation.
I always enjoy a nice Agatha Christie book.
Peril at End House is normal Hercule Poirot fare.
The characters are mostly English upper class, the setting is an English country house and Poirot gently mocks nearly everyone.
Interestingly even he seems to be initially confused by the situation as a murder actually takes place on his watch.
Of course eventually he comes to grip with the proceedings and displays the murderer to great effect in front of a gathering of all the concerned parties.The end was a complete surprise to me and it was a very clever one.
Nicely done Ms. Christie.
I picked it up at random, and was wondering if I would get to read a decent mystery novel; I wasn't left disappointed. Agatha Christie can weave a mystery out of anything, I guess. She creates an atmosphere of certain mystery and unease that pulls all your attention and creates a craving to know more, thereby getting you hooked without letting you know . This one got me hooked from the first chapter. Until I finished. The solution is ingenious, and unprecedented. Recommended.
Some books don't stand up to rereading. This is one of them.The characters are mostly a bit ridiculous (including Poirot's faithful sidekick, Hastings) & too many of them are very shady.There are too many coincidences.The crimes are too unlikely.Lastly not (view spoiler)[ one but two criminals are effectively let off the hook? (hide spoiler)]Poor show Christie - dashed poor show!

I was reading this and I really wanted to see the adaption of it on the big screen, because I had these great images in my head.
A young woman with death hanging over her, and the foreign detective who feels compelled to protect her.It's just such a great story!
And I have to admit the mystery didn't just have Poirot grasping for straws, I didn't figure it out until the end.
The whole atmosphere surrounding it is fantastic, and it's a great change of pace to start off with a living body, not a dead one.
به حق آن را ملکه شهرهای ساحلی نامیده اند که آدمی را سخت به یاد ریویرا می اندازد.
هر گوشه این ساحل کورنوالی به اعتقاد من جذابیتی چون سواحب جنوب فرانسه دارد.این ها را به دوستم هرکول پوآرو هم گفتم.- در صورت غذای رستوران قطار هم دیروز همین را نوشته بودند، دوست من.
راستش رفته بودم به همان جایی که تو الان گفتی.- جنوب فرانسه؟- بله یاد پارسال زمستان افتادم که آنجا گذراندم و اتفاقاتی که افتاد.یادم بود.
در قطار آبی قتلی رخ داده بود و معمای پیچیده و گیج کننده اش را پوآرو با همان شمّ خطاناپذیر همیشگی اش حل کرده بود
Agatha Christie's brilliancy in creating intriguing murder mystery plots is yet again displayed here.
The final plot twist left me stunned.
Interestingly, here the great Hercule Poirot is a little baffled with the circumstances surrounding the mystery.
For the first time Christie shows that after all Poirot is human too, though a very clever one.
Nevertheless with so many tangled facts at hands, and after going a little astray, Poirot solves the puzzle at the end securing his unsurpassed reputation.
This is a brilliantly written story which keeps the reader well engaged till the very end.
A great read and I enjoyed it very much.
Στην μέση του βιβλίου υποψιαζόμουν ότι τον ένοχο τον βρήκα. Λίγο πριν το τέλος ξεφώνιζα σίγουρη ότι τον βρήκα! Λίγο μετά, μπερδεύτηκα! Έπετα απο λίγο ξανατσίριζα ότι τον βρήκα!Τελικά… δεν… τον βρήκα…Α, ρε Αγκάθα… Παίζεις με το μυαλό μου.
A leisurely read because the story line itself moves at a leisurely pace. There are few customary murder attempts and a murder but the plot is not gripping. Unlike other Christie plots you get a good idea of who the real killer is and so it spoils the climax. There are cross references to other Poirot's exploits and hence is best read after Poirot's previous stories have been read. Overall an average read
Poirot doesn’t like to explain his thought process during an investigation, preferring to do the usual theatrical Accusations in the Parlor routine at the end of the book, so it’s helpful that he has Hastings following him around and occasionally asking clarifying questions about his process.
I like mystery stories where the reader can feel like they’re solving the case alongside the detective, and even though Poirot does save some big bombshells for the final reveal, there’s at least a little transparency here.That being said, the mystery definitely isn’t as satisfying as some of Christie’s greatest hits.
However, it seems murder will not leave him alone...Magdala ("Nick") Buckley, the owner of End House, is in trouble.
Poirot cannot let it go; so soon he is at End House, where peril lurks at every corner.
As in many of her stories, the tactic is misdirection: the pattern what we see is entirely different from what actually exists.
However, in this story, this misdirection has been done to such meticulous level that Christie aficionados will be able to guess the murderer with a little effort, I feel.
4 Stars - Great bookThere's a reason Agatha Christie is dubbed the Queen of Mystery and this book shows readers why.
I had forgotten just how good a Christie mystery can be.
I mean, I know it's a mystery and there are bound to be surprises, but the amount of surprises was surprising but welcome!) I can honestly say that I did not expect it to end the way it did and I appreciate a good mystery I can't solve.
It's more fun that way.The only reason I gave this 4 instead of 5 stars is because of (view spoiler)[the blatant anti-semitism.
(hide spoiler)] Shame on you Ms. Christie.However, I absolutely recommend this book.

I almost never rate a Christie book lower than 4 stars, because I just love her writing.
There is just something that I find leaves this book a little flat.
The characters don't seem as fully fleshed out or interesting as in other books.
Overall the whole book feels lethargic and a little forced.
In all probability, she simply trotted out a new Poirot book to satisfy the demands of her publishers and readers, who were insatiable for the little Belgian detective.
Reference NotesSeries: Hercule Poirot #9 (1932)Narrator: HastingsRecurring Character: Scotland Yard's Detective Inspector James JappIntended Victim: Ms. Nick BuckleyVictim: Ms. Maggie Buckley (Nick's cousin)COD: GunshotSuspects:Mrs. Frederica "Freddy" Rice (Nick's friend)Mr. Jim Lazarus (Nick's friend)Commander George Challenger (Nick's friend)Mr. Charles Vyse (Nick's cousin)Mr. and Mrs. Croft (Nick's tennants)Mr. and Mrs. Wilson (End House's gardener and housekeeper/maid)Strange Fact: At one point in this book, Hastings refers to his wife as "Bella" - but his beloved "Cinderella"'s name is Dulcie. Bella is his sister-in-law. Hmmm...
أربعة عناوين لقصص مختلفة، يحتويها الكتاب:١_ الصواريخ. ٢- الجريمة الكاملة. ٣- لعبة الموت. ٤- صندوق الشيكولاتة. كل منها مختلف الإسلوب و الحبكة .. أجاثا البارعة في جعلك مشدودا، حائرا ، شاكا في الجميع!
One of my favourite Poirot mysteries as even the man himself is stumped for much of the time. Christie, as usual, is scrupulous with her clues which are there in plain sight (view spoiler)[(pay close attention to letters is all I'll say...) (hide spoiler)], and there are red herrings in the 'bright young things' cast and opportunities for Hastings to radically misjudge everything! A slick plot and final solution, too.
Peril at End House was a great mystery to follow.
It did not pretended to be anything than a straight forward murder mystery.
It also had some of the delightful conversations where Poirot pokes fun at Hastings - either about his understanding of women or his admiration for the capabilities of English sportsmen:"Still no news of that flying fellow, Seton, in his round-the-world flight.
He may have made one of the Pacific Islands.""The Solomon islanders are still cannibals, are they not?" inquired Poirot pleasantly."Must be a fine fellow.
"Poirot," I said. "I have been thinking.""An admirable exercise, my friend. Continue it."One of the best of the Poirot cases, to be honest. That ending was so not what I expected. (Is it ever any other way with Agatha Christie?)
ما ان أقرأ رواية لأجاثا وأقول انها أفضل ما كتبت على الاطلاق حتى تأتيني رواية أخرى لتصدمني وتبين لي أن عبقرية هذه الروائية تعدت عقول الكثير من المفكرين, ولا أبالغ أبدا في ما قلت :).ستقول وأنت تقرأ رواياتها أن المجرم هو أبعد الأشخاص عن الجريمة, ذالك الذي لا توجد أي اشارة تدل على أنه هو القاتل, أو أن هناك دليلا صغيرا مخفياً, هكذا ستقول لأن الروايات البوليسية غالباً ما تكون هكذا, ولكنها أغاثا يا عزيزي, حتى لو حاولت أن تفكر خارج الصندوق, فستأتي هي وتبين لك أنك ما زلت تفكر فيه!!تتحدث الرواية عن مادج, الفتاة التي تعيش وحدها في "البيت الأخير", والذي ورثته عن أجدادها الذين كانوا يعيشون فيه تباعاً..
End House looks like a haunted house, after all an old man the kids called Satan lived there. But, now his vivacious young niece is the owner. She’s done some improving inside the money pit.  Meanwhile someone is trying to kill her. Why? Enter Poirot. He will find the answers and stop her murder. But who will be sacrificed?  A good mystery, but since I figured it out early I’m not as impressed as I usually am at Agatha Christie’s twists. How cynical is that? Hahah!
بوارو العجوز المسكين ، حين تستخدمه و تسّيره بنت (شيطانية) صغيرة ، لتحقيق هدفها الإجرامي !متى ؟ .. و كيف ؟ .. سينتبه بوارو إلى خدعتها ؟ :) كالعادة رواية مثيرة من روايات اجاثا كريستي ، و بطلها (بوارو) المحقق الخاص ، البلجيكي الأصل ...
This Poirot mystery involves a missing pilot, two Magdalas and a gang of friend suspects.
In End House, Christie tries this out: Instead of solving a murder, Poirot goes through half the book with Poirot trying to keep Nick from being murdered (which involves a different, more proactive skill set, of course).
One nice touch is that the new playwright Christie, fascinated with plays, has Nick suggest that End House would be a great place for a play, then has Poirot enact a play and a play within a play for the finale!
Until now, unfortunately, I'd never read any of Agatha Christie's Poirot.
Peril at End House takes place well into the (interminable - so sorry, Ms. Christie) series.
For one thing, it's narrated by Hastings, whose occasional puffs of dry wit help to balance Poirot's overbearing self-satisfaction.
Never had a failure, they say." "That is not true," said Poirot.
I have yet to see if most others in the series can match End House plot-wise, but at least I know from this one that there's high potential.
We feel we know who Poirot is, but it's those little grey cells of his!
I admit that I picked this one up as my next Christie because it was set in Cornwall, I sure wasn't disappointed. It kept me on the edge of my seat the entire time, because of the whole "will it? won't it?" situation and I thought that the resolution was brilliant. I'm also glad I hadn't read from Hastings' point of view in a while, he can be so annoying haha. Another great mystery by Agatha Christie!

Poirot is on holiday (poor chap - never took a holiday that didn't turn into work for him!) and he comes across a vivacious young girl who has several attempts made on her life.
Poirot steps into the scene but someone gets murdered by mistake.
The investigation gets more confused because there is a forgery as well.
But what I really enjoyed was the interplay between Poirot and Hastings.
This is one of the finest books in that respect.
And I absolutely adored Hastings in this book.
He can be so hilarious when he is moaning about Poirot's eccentricities!
