https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/480479.Under_the_Tuscan_Sun
WARNING: THIS BOOK IS THE MEANDERING INCOMPLETE THOUGHTS OF A MIDDLE-AGEd WOMAN THAT EATS LIKE A ITALIAN SUMO WRESTLER AND BOUGHT A DISASTER OF A HOUSE THAT NEEDED A HUGE AMOUNT OF REPAIR. THAT'S ALL THERE IS TO THIS BOOK. Perfect if you are practicing speed reading. You could skip every other sentence and still understand that she actually enjoys fixing up this crappy house in Italy. Absolutely nothing like the movie. Disappointing.
Food and drink, new friends and neighbors, the non-human inhabitants of her house and land, the joys and frustrations of foreign gardening, the colors and textures and tastes daily encountered are all given their moments.
The next moment, Mayes ruminates on the vagaries of renovating a house in a foreign country(this is what the book is ostensibly about), the reasons a person leaves their own homeland to find a home elsewhere, and the ways a person is changed by what they find in that elsewhere.
I wish I could write like Frances Mayes.
I didn't finish it.
And, frankly, that's not like me at all.
The book is well reviewed, and well written.
And yet, somehow, I just really didn't like it.
The author can truly write, and the topics were of great interest to me, but I felt the entire time like she was untouchable.
She was encased in her own experience and at no point did I feel welcomed or able to understand her.
In the end, I did myself the favor of forgiving myself for not liking it and set it aside.
As I edit my book about life in Spain I am a little worried about what I feel to be a lack of structure and focus in what I have written.
As far as the premise to the book, I really couldn’t care less about some prosperous couple’s work they are doing on an Italian country estate.
For a woman who has spent a lot of time in the country she has precious few insights about what life is like in that country other than her rather untraditional versions of Italian recipes.
The author revealed few truly insightful observations about Italy or Italian life.
Wondering how many people read them while on the toilet, encountering books that smelled like ash trays, finding potato chip crumbs wedged between pages 32 and 33, encountering a sticky cover, or, dear God, whose hair is that?!!?--these are all things that would give me a nervous twitch for days.
Part of this was also because I was willing to see if I was the kind of person who would like these books that I didn't have access to previously.
A book about a woman moving to sun-drenched Italy and finding herself?
Under the Tuscan Sun is not a bad book.
“ It’s not fair that some people get to live like this!” she said, throwing the book down on her unwashed, non- authentic linoleum floor.
It’s not fair!
It’s not fair!” Later, that night, she crawled under the table and retrieved it, determined to try one of those recipes, included in the book, for Chicken with Chickpeas, Garlic, Tomatoes, and Thyme.
Wanting to learn about all things Italian was the reason I picked this book.
Hearing that one of the primary joys of her Italy travels was buying shoes, was a major clue that this was not a book for me.
Then when she mentions sitting out at her new home and hearing the WHIRR of an owl flying close overhead--I knew I wanted to spend no more time in her description of Italy.
You DO NOT hear the whirr of this bird of prey's wings.
I was hoping to learn about Italy, not hear her interpretation of what Italy should be.
They fell in love with the Italian culture, pace of life, and food.The sense of time is so different in Tuscany with their villa surrounded by fascinating things from ancient times--an Etruscan wall, a Roman road, old churches, and a nearby Medici fortress.
The walls of the old villa were thick slabs covered with plaster.
Various owners had added on more rooms over the years so it was always a surprise to see what was under the last coat of plaster.The Tuscan food is simple, fresh, and picked when perfectly ripe.
Mayes' descriptions of the food and wine are sensuous, and she included a few recipes.
The Tuscan sun has definitely warmed up Mayes' life.
I first heard about this story when the film version was being hyped.
But it is more than a merely picturesque recounting of her experiences, her story has many layers that together recall that sense of nostalgia that can only be found in the true sweetness of memory.
The smells and sounds that create that subtle ache for the events and experiences that in remembering achieve their deepest meaning.
while Mayes paints a vividly gorgeous picture of Tuscany, and, specifically, her house in Cortona, i was left wanting more than just her insights and detail....having delved into the writing of memoir myself, i know that the audience remains engaged when you deal with difficult aspects of yourself.
overall i rather enjoyed the portrait of tuscany and confess i would like to do the same thing, but i just wish i got to know the author better at the end of it.
Movie version: her best friend is a lesbian and they send Mayes on a gay tour of Tuscany since the friend's wife doesn't want her to travel in the first trimester.
In restoring it, she learns to love herself again, as she learns Italian ways of living.
Book version: straight lady buys house with husband because they can.
There are interesting parts about local Italian history and the occasional magic moment, but mostly it's a "look at how cool my normative life is, aren't you jealous?" kinda book.Be aware that the three star rating is because Mayes is a competent writer who occasionally includes some really beautiful prose.
I am surprised by how many bad reviews this book has received here on goodreads.
Yes, the movie version is very loosely based on this book, so don't come looking for that story here.
And yes, it is a memoir and not a novel.
And yes, Mayes is a privileged woman who has earned the ability to buy a decrepit villa in Tuscany as a second home, renovate it and furnish it.
Who hasn't dreamed of doing just that?
I thoroughly enjoyed her descriptions of the renovation process, the land, the people, the ancient history of the area and oh, the food!
I know there's plenty here whodon't think much of this book, but it totally appeals to my utterly romanticnotions of running away to live in Europe someday....sigh....
;-) Haven'tbeen to Italy yet, but this book *was* largely responsible for my subsequenttrips to France, Spain, and Turkey.
And my list (TBV list - "to bevisited" - tee hee) has been growing ever since.This was also my first PalmPilot read, and I was pleasantly surprised tofind that I completely enjoyed reading on my teensy little baby computer.
Lightweight, cleareasy-to-read font, easy thumb clicks to turn the pages, and complete withits own light.
Plot: Author summers in Tuscany, buys an old farmhouse, refurbishes it, travels through Italy, and cooks constantly.Review: Open up a "Sunset" or a "National Geographic Traveler" magazine, and imagine reading a beautifully descriptive & evocative 6-page essay on what it's like to live & work & cook in Italy.
Over and over again.It's hard to read a 280-page book that has no plot.
It makes me want to bake a slice of bruschetta & top it with a rub of garlic, a dab of olive oil, & roasted eggplant.
Essentially, it makes me want do something other than continue reading.
I saw the movie first and didn't realize it was based on a book.So first of all, this is not a novel.
However, I unfortunately saw the movie when it came out, in complete ignorance that it was a book first.And.
I'm still confused about how *this* book got made into *that* movie.
I'd already read Extra Virgin, and felt that this book was a weak imitation.Had I not known the movie or the other book, I think I'd have liked this better.
I especially liked the way she described menus, and how they ate what was in season and accessible.
I so rarely stop reading mid-book, but I found this one to be so rambling and uninteresting and I'm at a point in life where I feel no obligation to push through such an experience, even (or especially) to please someone who thought for sure they knew what I'd like.
The prospect of buying a shambles of a house, no matter where, and restoring it, is a subject that is of tremendous interest to me.
I found her writing to be less interesting than the plant descriptions on my Sunset Garden Book.
CRAP CRAP CRAP...HATED IT!!! This is the epitome of nauseating travelogues. This woman thinks she is Italian because she renovated and lived in a small property in Tuscany??? And she is clearly so much smarter, knows better, and has more experience in everything (not JUST renovating and living in a small house in Tuscany) than anyone else on earth because she renovated and lived in a small house in Tuscany. Blech.
It is an interesting little book, not a novel exactly, more a sort of a diary of a divorced woman who decided to buy a house in Tuscany and documents her experiences.
It's more a collection of author's thoughts and impressions, all bound together by her decision to buy a house in Italy.
I had a feeling that the author was almost pushing this idea about her great adventure- but really is buying a house in Italy really that revolutionary?
Reading her impressions about Italy was interesting, as she is someone coming from a different culture and continent.
Από τις σπάνιες περιπτώσεις που η ταινία είναι ανώτερη του βιβλίου. Τέλος πάντων δεν είναι και κανένα αριστούργημα, είναι ένα χαλαρό ανάγνωσμα για τις ώρες που δεν θες να βασανίσεις πολύ το μυαλό σου και τον σκοπό αυτό τον εξυπηρετεί και με το παραπάνω. Για το είδος του καλό.
I think I'm being a little harsh by giving this only 4 stars...it certainly has the qualities of a 5 star book; great writing, interesting events, a plot that works.
Mayes style works well with the bulk of the book but there are too many wandering offs to make it a true 5 star book.
I really enjoyed it, though.
But there is much to be greatly enjoyed in this book.
This is a terrific read for the arm chair traveler or anyone who has wanderlust and needs a little motivation to go and do.
Edit: I mentioned in my review that the author paid $1,000,000 for this abandoned villa because she said in the book that she wrote "milione" at the closing so many times.
So thank you, Ms. Mayes, for this clarification!I’ve long been familiar with this book but until now had never had the chance to read it.
I couldn’t quite relate to that but regardless of that disconnect, I very much enjoyed reading of their adventures over the years.The beginning of the book details their search for a home, their finding of Bramasole in Tuscany, their search for contractors and decisions made as to what the renovation would entail and the actual renovation.
I'd never heard of this book until the autumn of 1999, a few days after I arrived in Cortona, the town/subject of this book.
I soon learned, however, that she was the author of this very book, which was about her experience rehabbing a home on the other side of the hill from Cortona.
My experience in Cortona was life changing.
Mayes paints a bucolic picture of her affluent time spent futzing around Cortona.
Maybe I was annoyed by the herds of annoying, middle-aged American tourists jamming up the tiny streets of Tuscany's towns, making it seem less authentic, because of this book.
I loved this book when I first read it (was I 20?
That being said, the book is well-written and the descriptions of Tuscan life are, of course, deeply seductive.
Because that's the point: a life where you worry whether your wrought-iron gate is cast in period-appropriate design, or you wonder if the grape vines cascading down your porch are wine grapes or grapes for eating *IS* a seductive life.
But more than anything, I'm just supremely uninterested in reading about how fantastic, and rustic, and beautiful your life is.
How much of that is really just the landscape, I wonder.
A chance to journey along looking over a person's shoulder as they go from summer holiday tripper in Tuscany to owning an old Tuscan farmhouse needing a vast deal of TLC was an intriguing prospect.I had seen the movie adaption of this book, but the movie is only one small facet of all that is covered in gently-paced slightly distant reflections on a years' long labor of love and life.
I got bored during her sightseeing trips in the region, reminiscing of the past during her childhood in Georgia, or her thoughts on her life and how its changing, but I was really into the restorations and projects around their home along with talks of marketing and cooking.
You must change your life.- RILKEI was at an airport.
I needed a book.
It was the 1990s (no e-books).
Another cross-country business trip.This was it.The Tuscan sun has warmed me to the marrow.I read the whole thing from cover-to-cover on that journey.
Maybe it was the writing, maybe it was the locale, maybe it was because I was leaving sun and flying into snow, but I really enjoyed this book.
It may be pulled back at any moment.I changed my life.
Book Season = Summer (lemon cake, tangerine sorbet)
Half of this is recipes.
The other half was a real estate guide, and a renovation guide, and then a tour guide of Tuscany.
For me, when I want a recipe, I'll reach for an actual cookbook, thank you.
Tuscany?
Been there, done that, so tour guide is not required.
And as far as real estate goes, I need a catalog with pictures and numbers, and then prefer to see the place, and have actual interest in purchasing.
Otherwise, it's a moot point.I guess I should have known better than to reach for this book.
Well now I know better, I guess...
I love travel writing and was really looking forward to reading this book. Sadly for me, about a third of the way through I realized that I wasn't reading a book about Italy or travel, I was reading a very long, very dry book about home improvement that just happened to take place in Tuscany.
Gyvenimiška avantiūra. Italija. Toskana. Dar tiksliau tai Kortona. Tikra istorija apie tai, kai nepaisant nieko žmona ir vyras ryžtasi nusipirkti namą Italijoje. Po ilgų dvejonių beveik alkai įsigyja namą, kurį jau buvo nusižiūrėję, ir pasineria į žemiškus nuotykius jį renovuojant. Susipažinimas su itališku gyvenimu, kultūra bei palengva priimama itališka pasaulėžiūra, priprantama neskubėti, mėgautis akimirka. Kaip ir išmoksta tai, ko net negalvojo, kad kada nors darytis. Italija kvepianti knyga. Taip ir kviečia vėl joje apsilankyti
I didn't want to agree at first, but now I do.
I did not love this book.
Basically, this woman and her husband/boyfriend(?) buy a house in Tuscany after wanting to and not wanting to and wanting to and not wanting to and really wanting to but having a lot of other things discourage them.
Then she makes a lot of references to South American civilizations and goes to visit a bunch of Etruscan tombs.
The rest of the time, she just kept telling and telling and not showing at all.
While visiting Tuscany, she decides to take a leap of faith and to begin a brand new life.
Even though she can't afford the home which she wants to buy, the owner realizes that how much the author values the home and that it should be hers.
I especially appreciated this aspect since I am the author of a spiritually-themed book.
After reading this book, I wanted to move to Tuscany.
At points, the book reads as if it was a cookbook.While it was interesting, the author's description of renovating her new home was a bit tedious.
Even so, the book is a marvelous read.
