https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/699676.Smoke_from_This_Altar
And, since the vast majority of these poems are odes to nature's beauty, SMOKE ON THE ALTAR winds up being way better than you'd expect from a guy who made his career on penning pulp westerns.
I especially enjoyed some of the poems that were only included in later additions, like the piece in which L'Amour disparages professional critics, or the one in which he vents his irritation at people who consider themselves well-read simply because they keep up with the latest blockbusters (specifically, in this case, GONE WITH THE WIND).
Such poems show a different side of L'Amour--a slightly bitter side that doesn't quite fit the popular image he so carefully honed for himself.
This collection reminds me of a coyote Shakespeare singing under the desert stars.What a unique little treasure: before Louis L'Amour became a Western genre sensation, he published this slim volume of poems, available only in a few Oklahoma bookstores, in 1939.
It was written during the author's years of sailing, acting, "sideshow barking," and various other jobs he did that took him all across the globe.
Having been proved wrong, I certainly didn't expect to enjoy what I found there, or for the poems to be good.
Thank God for wonder and surprises.L'Amour's poems aren't great, but most of them are pretty good, and a few are even very good.
A biographical sketch claims that L'Amour's personal library included 17,000 volumes—I'd believe he'd read most of them.Most of the poems are beautiful in virtue of the sentiment expressed, but there are moments where L'Amour captured that most evasive of butterflies, a truly beautiful line.
3* I was thrilled to find this poetry collection by Louis L'Amour. I don't like all of the poems, but a few of them I really love.
I picked this up more out of curiosity rather than interest, but I'm glad I did. L'Amour has a lovely way with words. Even if he's a bit too formal and structured for my everyday taste, he had some wonderful lines, and a few absolute gems in this collection. It was easy to see that the poems collected at the end (not in the original publication) were not as polished as the rest, but considering his wife added those after his death, it's not a big surprise.A fantastic collection of poetry
L'Amour transports you into the lonely and beautiful places he has visited in these poems. They show his facility with words and his love of the frontier. The mystery in nature is only partly received by a heart that is reaching out, seeking, calling, wandering. I'm not really into poetry, but I think Thoreau would have appreciated these.
Louis L'Amour's wife, Kathy, wrote an introduction for this book which was, in 1939, his first published book, and it contains many of what L'Amour considered to be his best poems.She said of that time, that "poetry was the expression of Louis' most important thoughts and feelings.
The Literary Favorites sections has a post on Louis L'Amour the author, and the Poetry Reviewed section has a post on the poem "I am a Stranger Here".L'Amour's books are beloved and are favorites of many, many, people.
Even if you don't like poetry this book, "Smoke From This Alter", is something L'Amour fans will like and then see him as a person, more clearly.
This is some of the Poetry written by Louis L'Amour. He started his writing career writing poetry, and then turned to stories. While some of his poetry is nice, and I enjoyed it, I am not a poetry lover so rated the book very low.
I have never read this author before, and I was surprised at how good his poetry is! Most of it is on a topic that's not personally interesting to me, but much of it was humorous, or heartfelt, or a witty observation, and I really enjoyed it!
A gentle read that contains simple melodic lines often in sonnet or quatrain form describing travel and landscape. I love that it was published in 1939 before L'Amour's novel career began in earnest.
Beautifully written. He totally wooed me several times at least. For all who are moved by poetry, I recommend this.
One of the few books of poetry I've actually enjoyed. There's an interesting range of kinds of poems, which also means I only like most of them, but overall, enjoyable.
This is a book that has become legendary among Louis L'Amour readers - the very first book he ever published (poetry).
His books consisted primarily of Western novels (though he called his work 'frontier stories'), however he also wrote historical fiction (The Walking Drum), science fiction (The Haunted Mesa), nonfiction (Frontier), as well as poetry and short-story collections.
L'Amour's books remain popular and most have gone through multiple printings.
At the time of his death some of his 105 existing works were in print (89 novels, 14 short-story collections, and two full-length works of nonfiction) and he was considered "one of the world's most popular writers".
Interestingly, this was L'Amour's first published book, and his only book of poetry. Most of the poems are naturalist in content- concerning the sea, seasons, land regions, and skies. There are a few humorous ones like the one where he writes of how frustrating it is that people often mispronounce his name. I read a few to my son and he liked them also, especially "A Handful of Stars."
I enjoy the imagery of Louis L'Amour's writing. As a teenager I read most of his westerns and didn't realize his first book was poetry until much later. I especially like a Handful of Stars and My Three Friends.
This book was a surprise to read, no doubt! I was expecting that I'd get something of the western fiction out of it, and was skeptical, but I was very pleased to find the poetry as mournful and beautiful as it was! This is a must read for anyone who wants to be pleasantly surprised.
background on me as a reader: I am not a poetry expert and I've actually not read anything else by Louis L'Amour. there were things I enjoyed about some of the poems (most especially observations of nature), but in general this was just not a collection suited to my tastes??
There are flashes of brilliance--a line here and there--but a little over-sentimental for my tastes. Not too bad, but not my favorite. I was actually surprised that L'Amour did more than Westerns.
ive had this book for at least 20 years and everytime i go back to it i am inspired. its a poetic little brother to thoreaus walden in that it motivates me to really live.
There were so many excellent poems with beautiful use of language. I envy the talent of Louis L'Amour, from his novels to his poetry.
An amazing book of poetry from a man that lived many lives and experienced many places.
This is not one of my favorite books of poetry but I grew up a fan of Louis L'Amour and had to try it. He is a very good poet and I enjoyed it!
This is a collection of poetry from the masterful writer of westerns, Louis L'Amour. His poetry covers a variety of topics and are fun to read.
I am happy to find that L'Amour's descriptive skills as seen in his Western novels translate well into his poetry.
Also read in 1992
A lot of the poems in this book give a more accurate depiction of what it's like on the ocean than anything else I have read.
This is a good book, but it isn't my favorite of the Louis L'Amour books. I do recommend this book to anyone that is interested in a good read.
L'amour proved to be as great a poet as he was a writer of westerns.
SM
Read My Three Friends! Beauty, humor, dark and bright.
