https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43330.Master_of_the_Game
You have lost all credibility now that you've included pseudo-romance novels on your goodreads list!" All I can say is, this book is the literary equivalent of crack.
You will definitely lose sleep when you obsessively stay up all night reading "just one more chapter..." It's just addicting.
A definite beach book, but not so trashy that you'd feel guilty reading it in public.
A hipster friend braved ridicule at Skylight books so she could buy her own copy (because of course I demanded mine back).
But if the definition of a good book is one you love reading, this comes pretty close.
I have never in my life read such kind of book.
I don't have any idea how in living hell am I gonna review this book because I don't think I am capable enough or good enough with words to describe what I went through while reading it or what I am feeling after completing it.
The characters were both ambitious and desperate to get what they wanted.Nothing seemed like a limit in this book,nothing seemed wrong,whether it was Jamie using someone for revenge or Kate sleeping with someone for the sake of business or Evie killing someone for money.Every character wanted,needed money,power and control.
If you want to win, you have to learn to be a master of the game.”This is the first Sheldon's book I read and I want to applaud.
Master of the Game told the story of the Mcgregor, the Diamond-trading family.
Kate Mcgregor is such a character I hate and love.
She is the master of her life, her game.
She manipulate people's life, her family, and even her beloved ones.
She is such a strong powerful bussiness woman I want to be.If you don't mind tiny romance and love clever anti-heroine and well-planed plot full of the twists, READ IT I highly recommend!

By reading this novel, I understood what is a page-turner. This soap opera style story is not my thing, but I managed to finish the novel pretty quick.I read this novel in my younger days and I don't dare to read this book nowadays. It is one of the I-would-like-this-book-better-at-my-younger-age book with the standard television drama show plots. This book was a good novel and I could still remember the main plot. I was charmed by the storytelling for a reader with no reading preference yet.
Erm..
This was my first Sheldon novel when I was still in the idea that he was a she.
I'm still perplexed as to whether put this as a book which I love to hate or hate to love.I was wildly cheering for Jamie all though his doomed-to-fail crazy plan to steal the Van der Merve diamonds with Banda.And then he did a total 180 degree on Margaret and became an misdirectedly cruel and vengeful sadist.It was similar with Kate.
I liked her when she risked everything for her friendship with Banda.
Even though it's a book that I hate-love-whatever!
I started reading and from the prologue onwards I was completely hooked!
Of course the romance scenes were also a little lost on me, at the time, but on the whole I totally loved this book and I heartily recommend it.
It started me reading adult books, as 'Sweet Valley High' never had the same appeal after this.
I've read it many times since and it never loses its appeal and the story always feels fresh.
The mini-series is also surprisingly faithful to the story, as many are not, so I'd recommend that too once you've read the book.
Kate Blackwell’s empire was spawned by pure ambition and greed, and she oscillates in my mind as proud, self-obsessed woman all in shades of grey! Sidney Shelton’s heroines have always been ruthless, powerful, ambitious and brainy. Kate’s nothing short of this combination. This deadly woman goes around shuffling the cards of her own family members to fuel her naked ambition. Story of passion, manipulation, hardships and betrayal. There are logic holes and no apparent reason why the characters of the plot behave in a irrational way, but the pace with the story traveled kept me hooked. Once readable.
Sheldon's story of big business, lust, greed, and revenge spans four generations, starting with Jamie McGregor, who leaves Scotland in 1850 to strike it rich in the diamond fields of South Africa.
His daughter, Kate, pushes the company until it becomes a world-wide conglomerate, and moves her headquarters to America.
While I enjoyed the twists and turns of the story, it started to seem a bit melodramatic and predictable.
More of Purplycookie’s Reviews @:  http://www.goodreads.com/purplycookie Book Details: Title Master of the Game Author Sidney Sheldon Reviewed By Purplycookie
What a book! 100 years of Blackwell family history felt like I've read several awesome books. Great story!
This is, as the title suggests, a grand tale of a game called 'life' spanning over four generations played mostly by the protagonist, Kate Blackwell, a dominant matriarch and a tyrant of her monstrously huge dynasty,  Kruger-Brent.What really drew me to this book is most certainly, Kate.
Nevertheless, while I immensely enjoyed this 'game' especially a battle with Kate and Eve, I didn't find the writing, his prose as fascinating as his plot.
Aren't only great books worth reading?
All I know is that I enjoyed it thoroughly.This was my first Sidney Sheldon and this won't be my last.The story is of greed, lust, ambition, manipulation, revenge and big business that threads its way through 4 generations of a family.
Coins flip, fates change, conspiracies are plotted and what we have in the end is one entertaining read.Yes, it's a 450 pages long soap opera about a family and it doesn't bore you one bit.Sidney is a genius.
Really.When Van der Merwe asked Jamie to sign a contract written in foreign language, I was suspicious.
And Jamie signing a contract with a stranger in a language that he doesn't understand was downright lunacy.Van der Merwe is a low-life, scumbag, sad excuse for a human being!How naive Jamie was.
Personally, I know how difficult it is to find something that you really like and somehow you have the talent to be successful in the field that you truly enjoyed.
And she screwed it up for Tony.So I was really pissed off with Kate.
And I really wanted to break something when she thought that everybody in her family betrayed her.
A close friend's stepfather insisted me to read this novel "Master of the Game" by Sidney Sheldon telling me that it was one of his all-time favorite novels.
My only favorite part was the captivating story about Jamie McGregor's adventures and how he tried hard to gain wealth out of his cleverness.
Kate Blackwell was hardly my favorite character.
Then, it shifted to Jamie McGregor's grandson Tony and his twin daughters, Eve and Alexandra.
Lusty romances and sexual manipulations kicked in(the triangle between the twin sisters and George Mellis)at the later parts of the novel.
Well - a confession must be made, I find it embarrassing when some people frequently tell me nowadays that I have done well to review "many African books and writers...you are one of the few readers who obviously read virtually only African books".
Anyway, Master of the Game is Sidney Sheldon at his best, featuring what he does best - a very powerful, alluring, larger-than-life woman (Kate Blackwell) who on the surface has it all.
I just finished reading the most depressing, pointless, IRRITATING book in existence.
Until today, I would have said I love all books!DO NoT read Master of the Game by Sydney Sheldon.
There is not a likeable character in the book.
This one fucks a girl to get back at the girls father and gets her pregnant and refuses to marry her, even though she loves him and had nothing to do with the original offense.
A plastic surgeon ruins his wifes face because she's cuccolding him every day, but he blackmailed her to marry him in the first place.There is one not evil character.
Θα σας το πω οτι ακριβως σκεφτηκα την ωρα που εκλεισα την τελευταια σελιδα...ω θεε μου τι βιβλιο ητα
Audiobook narrator needs improvement.The book is broken into four parts - the lives of different generations in the family.I loved the first part - Jamie’s story.
He goes to South Africa to find diamonds.The second part was ok about Jamie’s daughter Kate.The third part was depressing - Tony’s story.
Kate does evil things and permanently harms her son Tony.The fourth part was about Eve and Alexandria - identical twins.
I did not like reading about Alexandria who was stupid because she never suspected Eve was trying to harm or lie to her.
This book had some justice but I didn’t feel good enough at the end.
Starting with Jamie McGregor, then her daughter Kate Blackwell,then her son Tony, and lastly Kate's two granddaughters Eve and Alexandra.the Main Characters, Kate Blackwell is manipulative.
She wants what is best for her family to handle their family business though her son wants to be an artist.
I like also the twist here, but I couldn't help being annoyed at the main character, she's powerful and rich, but a very manipulative lady.
She's one intelligent woman.You have to be a Master of the Game to get everything what you want whether it is good or bad, you'll find a way to get everything you want.
I had expected much from such a well known author but as with many famous books, I found this more hyped than it deserves.
Though the story spans a 100 years and intrigues the reader in the beginning, the simple writing style soon ruins it.
I do not mind if the narration is straight forward, but in this book the narration was so simple it could have been a 6th grade text book had it not been for the adult content.
The only thing I could truly appreciate in this book was the stealing of the diamonds.
fast forward about 13 years and i find that lady again via the internet, my main goal is to find out what the name of this book was because the idea of it had tormented me for at least 9 years.after awhile she remembered and i quickly got the book and read it.
again.well, i was wrong about the idea of change that this book filled my life with.
all i wanted as a kid was the idea of adventure and hope that one day i could get the hell out of the life that i was given.
Kate Blackwell is one of the wealthiest and most capable ladies on the planet.
She is a puzzle, a lady encompassed by a thousand unanswered inquiries.
Her dad was a jewel miner who struck it rich beyond anything he could ever imagine.
Her mom was the girl of a slanted Afrikaaner shipper.
Her origination was itself a demonstration of abhor filled retribution.
Furthermore, for Kate there are apparitions, phantoms of missing companions and of adversaries.
Phantoms from an existence of extortion and murder.
Apparitions from a domain brought forth by stripped aspiration...
Sidney Sheldon is a standout amongst the most prevalent storytellers on the planet.
All humans passions and emotions are found in this story, greed, fear, lust, love, jealousy, sex, life and death.
Seldon is a great storyteller and the plot progresses at a very fast pace.
I can only criticize that his style is to make some events very contrived for the sake of the story and to fit them snugly in the chapters.
Overall, the goal is to entertain readers and for that purpose Master of the Game is a great job.
About ten pages into this book I was reminded of a time when the book publishing world was full of these kinds of sprawling, multi-generational sagas that were just begging to be made into television mini-series events.
I had read some of those books, but I'd never read any by Sidney Sheldon.
This book was compulsively readable, especially the first half, with its descriptions of diamond-fever in South Africa, and its larger-than-life characters.
But these kinds of books are not really meant to be thoughfully pondered, they are meant to be devoured.
Not highbrow storytelling, by any means, but I can understand why Sidney Sheldon made buckets of money in his time.
Picked up this book at a used bookstore somewhere - hadn't read Sidney Sheldon in a while.The storyline of this book was amazing - twists and turns, action and deceit, through five generations of one family.
You know how in every freaking writing class out there, the teacher harps on you 'not to tell things, but show them".
This book is a lot of telling.
It almost has to be, because the author's trying to fit so damn much in one book.
I would have preferred to see this book as five separate novels, one for each generation.
I had a hard time writing a review for this PURELY AWESOME book.I found exactly in this novel the things (not to mention the quality) I'm looking for. SERIOUSLY.This is truly one of Sheldon's most sensational masterpiece!A Sheldon Magic! Once again Sheldon you created an "unputdownable" book that would make us -- the reader’s heart beat faster with the turn of each page.ASDHLSUIGSDKGJS PERFEECT!
Βασικά, 2,5 αστέρια, τα 3 τα βρίσω πολλά...Είναι το πρώτο βιβλίο του συγγραφέα που διαβάζω και νομίζω ότι δεν θα ασχοληθώ άλλο μαζί του.
Πραγματικά, θα ήθελα να πιστέψω ότι διάβασα διαφορετικό βιβλίο από αυτό που περιγράφετε στις υπόλοιπες κριτικές, αλλά διαβάζοντας κάποιες βλέπω ότι αναφέρονται άτομα και γεγονότα που συνάντησα στο αντίτυπο που διάβασα, οπότε τελικά με λύπη μου διαπιστώνω ότι απλά διαφωνώ.
Ήταν αρκετά ενδιαφέρον ώστε να έχω μια περιέργεια για το τι θα γίνει μετά, αλλά δεν έχασα και τον ύπνο μου...
Δεν υπήρχε ένταση, δεν είχα καθόλου αγωνία για τις ζωές των ηρώων του βιβλίου.
Πραγματικα με ενθουσιασε αυτο το βιβλιο!!!!μπηκα τοσο πολυ μεσα στο στορυ που το απολαυσα!!!ηταν καλογραμμενο και τα ειχε ολα , τι ερωτες , τι ιντριγκες ,τι ανατροπες !!!!Ιωαννα σουπερ η επιλογη σου :)
Have to get out of this book!!!
Seriously!!!Sidney Sheldon is a fab writer ..One of Sidney Sheldon's most popular and bestselling titles, repackaged and reissued for a new generation of fans.
Kate Blackwell is one of the richest and most powerful women in the world.
And for Kate there are ghosts, ghosts of absent friends and of enemies.
Ghosts from a life of blackmail and murder.
Ghosts from an empire spawned by naked ambition!
Sidney Sheldon is one of the most popular storytellers in the world.
It will recruit a new generation of fans to his writing.
I don't know what's wrong with me but I just feel like rating all the books I read when I was in 8th grade or so.
Funny story of how I read this book: I was bored and there was nothing on the TV that could keep me interested so I just started going through my cousin's books and stuff.
So being the kid that I was, I said, "Hey, it's like an adult book and I should read something that is not meant for my age." And so I ended up reading the entire book, starting from that chapter.
I didn't bother reading the starting I don't know how many chapters.
