https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1738338.Earthly_Paradise
I checked this book out from the school library which still uses those cards attached to the back cover stamped with due dates.
With his top hat pushed back, a great lock of hair covering his brow, ceremonious and disheveled, he looked like a young and drunken wedding guest.
As we finally took our leave of him, he stepped back, waved goodbye with one hand, and the darkness once more hollowed out the deep sockets of his eyes and filled with ashes the black oval of his mouth, gaping in its quest for air.Great.
This is one of those books I turn to when I'm out of sorts, to take comfort in Colette's deceptively simple essays about growing up in the countryside in France and the twists and turns her life took after.
I'm fondest of the early part, as she writes ode after ode to her mother, a passionate gardener and amateur naturalist, peeling apart the layers of complexity she came to recognize as she grew up.
Colette combines an exquisite sense of the natural world with a sometimes cruel, sometimes kind view of human nature.
You come away seeing with clearer eyes of your own.
(10/10) Far more than the memoirs of a half-remembered author, Earthly Paradise is a collection of memories and experiences that speak to every part of life with both sensual and intellectual brilliance.
There's an erotic undercurrent to the most innocent of memories, supplied by Colette's lush prose and teasing hints as to the scandals of her life.
And there's no shortage of witticisms, some of which I actually laughed at.If you're interested in reading an autobiographical modernist narrative that deals with issues of memory and eroticism, I would reccomend Colette over Proust any day of the week.
I'm really interested in reading all of the books it draws on now, as well as Colette's fiction.
Arwen and I met a boy named Boris on a train from the coast of Greece into Athens.
Boris was a handsome, rakish kind of a lad, and he smoked a cigarette and traveled up and down the train talking to everyone on it.
He asked Arwen what she was reading and she was reading Proust.
Boris told us that his father had been reading Proust his entire life.
When he finished, he'd just open it up at the beginning and read it again.I haven't gotten into Proust in the same way, perhaps just because he's a man.
I know I've loved the few pages I've read and I want to read more.
I admit I only read this because it features in Alison Bechdel's Fun Home. Disappointed there's virtually no lesbianism to be found within this 500+ tome - Amalia X on pg 397 is the only mention of dykery. Colette does write well, though, which makes it an enjoyable read.
I'm going back about 30 years. I'm pretty sure this is the book. I remember the cover. Colette had a fascinating life and I was inspired by it in my early 20's.
Beautiful.

Colette's writing is simply exquisite. As are her insights on life, love, sex, theater, flowers, animals, and of course, the incomparable Sido. This is a lesson in the beauty of observation, in poetic prose, in noticing and capturing what's so often overlooked. This is a book to be savored slowly, for the pleasure of language and of reading.
An assembly of Colette's non-novel writings, Phelps has done a fine job, the best parts are divine, the worst still worth reading. I thoroughly enjoyed this & suspect I'll be back reading Cheri before long.
Interesting, intelligent and courageous woman. I would expect that women readers will enjoy this more than the rest of us. Fourth star is for women readers, surely the majority.
A most lyrical collection of musings by one of France's most admired prose stylists.
grape-pips
A Lovely memoir of Colette; this autobio is an examination of Colette's life. Absolutely beautiful; delicious language. I greatly enjoyed this book
A must-read for Colette-freaks, like myself.
Wonderfully written excepts of Colette's life. Her descriptions of her mother are wonderful.
