https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1037073.The_Children_of_Cherry_Tree_Farm
I've read this a thousand times when I was younger and always has a special place in my heart. Reading it again after all these years reminded me why I fell in love with Enid Blyton's writing and brought back fond memories of trying to reenact the story by myself. I'll read this to my children in the future and hope they'll love this as much as me.
It was really good because the children got to meet Tammylan.
Reading this at the age of 29 I have to laugh at the almost absurd idea that in today's world parents/guardians would allow their children to spend days and nights in the woods with a 'wild' man who shuns society.
Everything in the country is better, the work and the play and they don't want to go back.Although dated in the sense that you probably don't want to give your children a book that makes them think there are wild men in the woods waiting to gift them a baby squirrel, there is still the good old Enid charm here.
Yet another three-in-one book, read on my Kindle - the books are "The Children of Cherry Tree Farm", "The Children of Willow Farm" and "More Adventures on Willow Farm".
The usual Blyton beginning in "Cherry Tree Farm" with four sickly children (two girls,two boys) who are miserable living in London, when their mother and father get a offer to travel to America.
I think I enjoyed the first book far more than the other two, wild animals of the country are far more interesting than the farm animals.
Perhaps "More Adventures on Willow Farm", was a book too far, as it stretched the farming life a little too far.
Enid Blyton books are notable for their 'life is perfect and nothing goes wrong that can't be fixed' tales. Sadly this is one of those. While I enjoyed it as a child, even when I was 12 I began to rant about the improbability of the perfection of this world. It's a good book for kids, interesting enough to hold their attention yet sedate enough to ensure they aren't inspired by the book's contents to go forth and perform crimes etc.
Such a quiet, cosy little book! Simply, the children are sent to live with their aunt and uncle on Cherry Tree farm, and there they meet Tammylan, the "wild man", who teaches them about animals. No rip-roaring adventures - I kept expecting there to be smugglers or poachers hiding in the woods that the children would have to beat, but no! And still, it was a charming, delightful read.
the best books ever....children of cherry tree farm and children of willow tree farm!!!
I was a voracious reader as a child having entire series of "The Baby Sitter's Club", "Sweet Valley Kids", and "Sweet Valley High School", but nothing sparked my imagination like Enid Blyton.
I would recommend her to anyone and everyone who liked reading and asked what I was reading.
The way her short stories sparked my imagination impacted me more than I let on.
They were parables like Disney animated movies in printed words and I would get lost in them for hours until my mother would call me for dinner.
I would put Enid Blyton to the level of Roald Dahl and Dr. Suess.
Once they meet him all sorts of wonderful things start to happen, for Tammylan introduces the children to his animal friends, and soon the ways of badgers and squirrels, rabbits and frogs, moles, otters and snakes are familiar to them, and London seems far away and unreal.’This book was beautiful.I have absolutely loved making my way through Enid Blyton’s classics recently, and I was over joyed when I picked this book up and realised I had never read it before.
i hate you enid. I was always hungry after reading this book because i didn't find all the things those children ate when I was a kid and then I grew up and things stopped being wonderous and instead started being labelled with calories, diabetes and heartattacks. Don't give this to a kid. Unless there are pastry chefs around
One of the best children's novel by Enid Blyton. This is the first book of the 3 book series followed by The Children of Willow Farm and More Adventures at Willow Farm. The book revolves around four children learning and enjoying the farm life.
I am not an animal person so this book bored me after awhile. I was impressed that Blyton knew so much about her environment and stressed the importance of conservation. She seems ahead of her time but just not for me.
I like Penny because she is so adventours
My favourite childhood book that I read over and over again, lovely, sweet, innocent story, making a city girl want to escape to the country!
It's one of the best Enid Blyton books I've ever read. She's a Fantastic author and is hard to stop reading!
Its really interesting I love the book
Read over 40 years ago and I still love it!
I loved this book when I was younger and rereading it now reminds me of those times.
Being the impatient person I am, I couldn't wait for those rare occasions to hear what would happen at the Farm so I picked it up and used my reading skills that I had from reading the little school readers in my class (I was in prep at the time) and made my way through the rest of the book and Children of Cherry Tree farm became the first ever proper chapter book that I read and long story short, started off my absolute love of reading and writing.
Just read it as an adult with my 5yr old. What gorgeous memories I have of reading this 30 odd years ago - it was old fashioned even then. A lovely reminder that nature is interesting, and that childhood pleasures can be pretty simple.
Many time her story helped me escape to a wonderful fantasy world of adventure and fun.
Wow she knew how to tune into a childs mind, i enjoyed this read and read it quickly and enjoyed my little time travel to by gone times.On a side note i notice that a lot of books of her are still released but edited to take away parts that are racist or sexist.
I use to notice how Enid world was very sterotypically and gender biased, i am not the most intelligent of people but if as a 11 year old i could judge these things i am sure all youngster can understand.
It was fascinating how I discovered this book at my grandparents place - no one knew it existed - it was among the old things my aunt had brought from her home when she got married to my uncle - she had received it as a prize in school long back.
When I read it, the story fascinated me so much I begged my aunt to let me take it.
Now after so many years later, revisiting thi story, it did recreate some of the earlier magic in my mind.
Kayanya seehh.. gua pernah baca nih buku, hasil pinjaman dari temen gua, huehehe..And I love it!Gua suka cara Enid menggambarkan kehidupan di peternakan, and seriously abis baca buku ini gua jadi pengen punya peternakan, huahaha..Enak kali yee bisa mandiin kerbau, merah susu sapii terus nguber2 babi yang asyik main lumpur lalu ngasih makan ayam plus ngumpulin telurnya tiap pagi, aahh aahh..Living in farm can be so much fun, well.. at least dari cerita di buku ini sih sepertinya seruu, ahahaha :D
My son and I have been reading this as his 'before bed story'.
It took a couple of months as some nights he didn't want to read it (he is almost 6).
His interest in it strengthened as the story went on.I remember reading it to myself as a child and was completely enchanted by it, so I thought it would capture his interest in the same way.
Tammylan was definitely his favourite character and I suspect that the magic of the story will stay with him and will return as an idea and as inspiration when I least expect it.
Oh, nostalgia. I read this as a kid and loved it, along with the Willow Farm sequel. It's definite rose-coloured glasses material, but Tammylan and the animal facts made up for it. I've always known what a squirrel nest is called thanks to these books: drey! - it's been useful more than once in crossword puzzles, so that's something...
Just to clarify: I loved these books as a kid, but I probably would not recommend them for people over 10 or 11. They are lovely classics to curl up with now and then just to relive a bit of your childhood though.
I've read Willow Farm, the sequel, but only recently managed to find a copy of this one. It's much the same as all Enid Blyton's happy family farm stories. Just what I needed for a lazy Sunday afternoon read.
I read this book as a child and loved it so much. I searched and searched for a copy when my children were young to read to them but never found a copy. If it ever came into print again I would buy a copy and read it again
Loved it when I was six. Read it again as.an over 40 and still loved it!
The first Enid Blyton book I ever read. A pleasant story with laudable if overidealized messages about rural life and respecting nature.
