https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/171020.A_Mango_Shaped_Space
I understand that Mass does not have synesthesia herself and that this lack of experience clearly makes it difficult for her to portray the condition accurately.
Nonetheless, throughout the novel, she either makes synesthesia seem like a harrowing handicap or divine euphoria.
It's just like a cool little thing we have, something that deepens our affinity for art, but it's not this colossal issue in our lives.Mass's descriptions of synesthesia felt unnatural to me; synesthesia is such a natural part of a synesthete's life that it's not something you notice.
Or maybe it was just because I didn't like the way she handled the "issue" of synesthesia.
Songs can have a temperature or a time of day like as song can be in the key of D or something and feel like a night sort of song or in the key of D minor and be grey like an overcast day.I can also taste words, associate people and concepts with scents that don't exist.Mia, the girl in this book has a sort of synesthesia I don't have; associating words and letters with colours, or seeing shapes and colours in the air.
She felt like she couldn't tell anyone about the way she saw the world and when she did, it was treated a bit like an illness.But, soon she learned that it's not an illness, but a fantastic gift that is just AWESOME.I wonder if I should try acupuncture for a better synesthesia experience?
One of the many excellent aspects of A Mango-Shaped Space is that 13 (or is it 14?) year old Mia is not only a cool protagonist, she is also a bit childlike.
A Mango-Shaped Space is the story of Mia as she enters the eighth grade and confronts her synesthesia, a condition in which her senses are mingled.
Mia has the predictable fights with her BFF (Oh, I had forgotten how some girls are so emotional and sensitive at that age!) She starts to notice boys.
(hide spoiler)]A Mango-Shaped Space is a book I can’t praise enough.
I read "A Mango Shaped Space" in sixth grade.Let me tell you, this book drastically changed my life.This book isn't about mangos, it's about a young girl named Mia, who associates numbers, letters, sounds, days of the week, and months with colors.
When I was in preschool, I used to recite to anyone I met, "Pink and red are my favorite colors".
This being that my name - Meg - is a deep blood-red to me (Pink being every preschool girl's favorite color.
For me, I associate colors, numbers, days of the week, and months with colors.
What's saddest is that A Mango Shaped Space could be a great book, were it not for the terrible moral of the story.So. A Mango Shaped Space is about a girl who begins a journey to learn who she is and accept her own synesthesia.
She even learns that acupuncture feels really good for people with synesthesia (which is really cool and something I didn't know).
The message that comes out, intentionally or not, indicates that learning who you are is a bad thing.
The narrative punishes the main character for 1) being different, 2) liking the things that make her different, and 3) wanting to know who she is.
So Mia starts going to doctors and she finally meets people just like her.So, on one level, this story is about dealing with synesthesia.
At the end of the day, more than being about dealing with a disability (I'm not even sure I like calling synesthesia a disability) A Mango-Shaped Space is about accepting who you are and coping with the harder parts of life.I read this book back-to-back with Sherman Alexie's The Absolutely True Diary of a Part-Time Indian so comparisons are inevitable.
Well, like I said, Mass makes sure we know how young Mia is.
Synesthesia is not at all how Mass portrays it in the book.
I know its pretty rare, but its not like you end up falling in shock and see figures swarm around the room when Chopin plays.
Your life doesn't get deeply affected by Synesthesia, like it does if you are, for example, deaf.So over all, very dissapointed in this book and at Wendy Mass for inacuratly portraying Synesthesia.
(Although I have to give credit to Mass, Synesthesia is a hard thing to describe, even when someone who actually has it has a difficult time describing their experiences.)
After that, Mia tells nobody about her colors.When Mia is tweleve her most beloved friend, her grandfather, dies.
He even gives her a website where Mia can communicate with other synesthetes.Later on in the story, Mia has her first kiss with a boy named Adam, a boy she met on that website.Because she is so preoccupied with her condition and life, Mango dies of cold, because he got locked outside and was unable to reach the warmth of his home.
After Mango dies, Mia is extremely depressed and her colors disappear.They come back, When she meets up witha young boy named Billy, who shares her condition.
Mia saw that one of the kittens sounded like the color of Mustard.
It sounds like this book tries to be unique by having a main character with this special kind of brain cross-wiring (which is all it is, as I understand it), but takes it up a notch by attempting to use it as the mechanism for character isolation prevalent in YA stories.
Granted, the character has a different brand of it than I do, but I still have a hard time imagining that a person couldn't extricate themselves from it, such that they would have a strong NEED to express it as with colored chalk for numbers.
Anyway, I'll give this book a gander if I come across it, but I don't think I'll seek it out because of these things.
This book is great!
I recently recommended it to one of the middle school students I work with and it seemed to going over really well with her.I'm only a few years shy of being twice Mia the narrator's age, but found her to be awesome.
Definitely not perfect and kind of a pain in the butt to other characters at times (terrible school project partner, for one) but such a realistic, hilarious 13-year-old.
The character development was great in general, and I ended up liking pretty much everyone.
You can also read mine, and MLE's reviews on our blog.This would have been a four star book if it wasn’t for the degradation at the end into a swirling mass of teen angst.
Yeah, I am not so much into teen angst.The author did a great job in getting you into Mia’s head, on how scared and frustrated she was with her synesthesia.
I really loved her little brother, who was obsessed with superstitions.I also really enjoyed the descriptions on how her synesthesia effected her, on how it made certain things easier or harder.
First, the first-person narration felt slightly off to me.
Now she's in middle school, and she's discovering that there is the whole aspect of sensual pleasure that is available to her, and she lies and sneaks around to explore it, because she isn't really ready to discuss it with her family or friends, and she spends a lot of time online, learning more about it, and soaking in the tub, and it is more important than everything else right now.
It becomes more rational and kinder, and Mia isn't being punished although poor Mango is still dead, and the whole thing has become about grieving the loss of a pet.
even having unique visual maps of abstract concepts, such as time (for example, September might be three feet above your left shoulder).The story is charming and the writing is good, but the reason why I love A Mango Shaped Space is that if I hadn't read it, I would have never found out that I myself have synesthesia.
In fact, this book is absolutely famous among us synesthetes for doing just that because it's just about literally the only mainstream fiction book that is about synesthesia.
Associative synesthesia is just as legitimate and in fact far more common than the type described in this book.
Then again, I am buying comic books on a Saturday, so maybe I'm full of it.But I, a fully grown human adult, did read A Mango-Shaped Space.
My daughter recommended it to me after I gave her a copy of Animal Farm.
I'll let you decide who got the better deal.So this young girl named Mia has synesthesia, a condition that causes her to see sounds in the form of colors and shapes.
She's terrible at math.
I'm terrible at math and I can't see a difference between blue and indigo.
I gave it two stars mainly because the grammar was good.
I chose this book because the protagonist, Mia Winchell, has synesthesia: a mingling of sensory perceptions. Letters and numbers have colors associated with them for Mia, and this causes her difficulty in math and Spanish. Her parents don't understand initially, and then think she has a disease or mental disorder, but eventually they find a specialist at the University of Chicago to diagnose her condition and to help, enabling Mia to understand that she is not a freak. The book also deals with grief: family loss.
Jenna isn't presented as an otherwise irrational girl, yet she gets furiously mad at Mia twice in the course of the book, and then gets over it quickly without any sense that these events have been resolved in such a way as to strengthen the friendship.
This is a book about a girl with synesthesia, secondarily about family and friendships, and only then about the loss of a pet.
Normally I don’t gush over covers/titles, but this time?
LOVE this cover.
I think the book was about Things You Don’t Understand.
Mia didn’t understand her older sister Beth’s infatuation with yoga and spirituality.
Mia’s parents didn’t understand Mia’s synesthesia.
Mia didn’t have time to understand what her best friend was going through.
Mia didn’t understand Roger.
Mia sees the world in colours.
It’s REAL.
Mia sees the world drowning in colours – and that’s really cool.The writing was a touch thick and wordy for me.
Or I didn’t connect a lot with Mia?
★ 2016 AtY Reading Challenge ★: A book with a type of food/drink in the title.*2.5 stars*I feel sooooooo bad.
Honestly, I feel like the author didn't have a mature approach with Mia's condition.
I don't know if it was done with purpose of not but sometimes it felt like a magical realism book.
I felt like this!
This other thing made me feel like this".
Everytime a short book feels like a 3580 pages one it's not a good sign.
'Growth can only truly be achieved through loss' (- A Mango Shaped-Space, by Wendy Mass) I love this quote because it demonstrates The pain and suffering that comes from loss but also the growth.
I feel like this was a great lesson for Wendy to put into her book.
"Numbers don't have colors, they simply have a shape and a numerical value, that's all" (- A Mango Shaped-Space, by Wendy Mass) This was a comment Mia's teacher at the age 8 said.
But this comment helped Mia grow in so many ways she became an indented person and truthfully honest and I admire that.
A mango-shaped space.Mango.That's all I need.(Okay no really it was super good. I read it twice. <3)
And that's before you meet her odd family: her strangely superstitious younger brother who keeps records of all the Big Macs he ever ate on a wall chart with dates and times; her older sister who starts out as the "normal" one and suddenly morphs into a vegetarian neopagan (or whatever), and her oddly absent mother, who apparently is a SAHM and yet is blissfully unaware of what her kids get up to, and is emotionally cold.
This is dysfunctional with a hey-nonny-no, and I found the ramshackle house that Gramps and Dad built at the same time (not "together," no one in this family seems to be able to collaborate on anything) but in totally different directions, with no evident blueprints (or indeed planning permits) to be a metaphor for this strange family.Did I like the book?
Mia's "sound-pictures" cause trouble for her in school, so much so that her math and foreign language grades are in the D and F ranges.
Her history and art grades, on the other hand, are really high, as she uses her color associations positively to help remember dates and enhance her art.Mia's increased school trouble leads her parents to seek out a cure for this "problem." Once Mia finds out she's a synesthete, her world completely changes.
As someone who already knew about synesthesia, it was intriguing to read about it in a fictional book and not in an academic article or textbook.
At certain times while reading this book, I wish I could experience a day with synesthesia, sensing colors like Mia Winchell.
In addition, I enjoy reading the part when Mia is taking the math test.
She uses colors to help her memorize everything.
She is trying to find someone that can help her cure this problem because she wants know how it feels like to be a normal person.I absolutely enjoy reading this well-written and imaginative book and every time I read this, I it gets more and more interesting so I don't want to stop reading it!
This is also a sad story and a touching story. It's about a girl who sees colors for numbers, letters, and sounds. She also has a cat that she loves the most, Mango. I will recommend this book to people who loves Wendy Mass books.
Great book. My heart has a Mango-shaped space now.
Britt van der Poel 4-22-10 A Mango-Shaped Space by Wendy Mass A Mango-Shaped Space is about a girl named Mia who has synesthesia. The color for her name is a sunflower yellow, and the numbers get mixed up in math class all the time. Her parents freak out when she tells them, and when her cat dies all of her colors disappear. Mia is very confused about what to do in her life, but ends up finding a lot of friends who understand and respect her. Eventually, everyone in her class figures out that sh
The color for her name is a sunflower yellow, and the numbers get mixed up in math class all the time.
Her parents freak out when she tells them, and when her cat dies all of her colors disappear.
They all start asking her what color their name is, and sooner or later, she becomes better in math.
I think that the author wanted me to know that you should respect anyone no matter who they are.
I think she also wanted the readers to know that you have to try in order to receive something.
Mia really had to try to become better in Math, and she did.
I’m even thinking about using this as our next book club book (after A Great and Terrible Beauty).A Mango Shaped Space tells the tale of Mia Winchell (what an awesome name!) , a secret synesthete.
Avoided by her family?A Mango Shaped Space is a great book for so many reasons.
After a bit you buy it, and wished you did long ago.Oh, this book won the Schneider Family Award, which is for artistic expression of the disability experience.
I’d love to pick up a few other Schneider Family Award winning books, since this book was so good.
Mia is a thirteen-year-old-girl who suffers from synesthesia, a psychological condition that causes her to see sounds, smell colors, and taste shapes.
But then trouble at school, and a chance meeting with a boy who has the same gift, prompts Mia to tell her parents about the colors and shapes that bombard her.
Now consumed with the need to explore the potential of her gift, Mia disregards her personal relationships and isolates herself from family and friends at this very crucial crossroads in her life.
No matter which side of the young adult/parent relationship you are on, you will enjoy Mass’s portrayal of Mia as she handles life-altering events.
Great story! I never knew anything about synesthesia until I read this book. This is the first children's/YA book I've ever read on it, yet there must be hundreds of children out there who suffer from it. Some picture books are needed on this subject as well. I highly recommend this book for anyone who is interested in the problems and pleasures of growing up with a condition like this.
This book is really good, although really depressing in some parts. It's about a girl that mentally gives a color to everything--sounds, words, numbers, letters, people's names, etc. I don't know if this is a real disorder, but the book is very interesting. I recommend it.
