https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/759960.Rumble_Fish
This felt just a bit too similar to The Outsiders for me to fully enjoy it. It was a decent book though, and a nice quick read!
There's something about 'Rumble Fish' that makes me read it a few times every year. If you think this is a book just about gang fighting - you're wack. It's about wanting to be something you can't be, finally getting it and realizing that it wasn't what what you wanted. It's about being misunderstood and misinterpreted. It's about picking the wrong heroes. It's about wanting to belong to anybody. It's about life turning into black and white.
Tenía ganas de leer algo más de la autora de una de mis novelas favoritas, Rebeldes.
No sabía qué esperarme, pero desde luego no una historia que siguiera los pasos de su primera obra.Pareciendo un spin-off, tratando el tema de las bandas callejeras, las peleas y las relaciones sexuales, Susan E.
En este caso no ha sido menos, pero esperaba una historia que no me dejase a medias en cuanto a conocer el resto de personajes.
Guarda unos cuantos giros más que interesantes y se lee de una sentada.
Sets the scene, hooks the reader, gives the voice and explodes into action in a way that’s laid back and almost lazy – I know that laid-back and explode contradict each other, but that’s how it feels – I guess that a slick car with great gears and engine might do this as it accelerates, fast as hell yet so smooth the motion is hardly felt.After reading those first few pages, I had to pause for a couple of days just to think about it.The next thing that hit was the way that the movie of the book had stuck so closely to the dialogue (it’s practically verbatim).
Rumble Fish was a cool movie that looked a lot like Robert Frank’s The Americans and had Mickey Rourke perfecting his Richard Hell impersonation with Tom Waits doing a Pop’s Chocklit Shoppe routine, whilst listening to Wall Of Voodoo and The Police jamming on the soundtrack…very new wave…totally Eighties.
Rumble Fish was written in the Seventies so I imagine more of a burned-out Motorcycle Boy fried by too many Boones Farm empties, dozens of Testors glue tubes, and scratchy Steppenwolf records.
Whichever spin you put on Rumble Fish it’s one of the best tomes in the Teenage Wasteland bookshelf.
This book is confusingly bad. It lacks the charm and sincerity of The Outsiders (and it also lacks a shirtless teenage Rob Lowe, which could have made up for a lot). None of the characters are as skillfully drawn or believable, the story is meandering and poorly written, and the heart of the novel - the relationship between Rusty-James and the Motorcycle Boy - isn't given enough time to mature.On the other hand, this is probably a pretty good movie, because it stars Matt Dillon and Diane Lane (forever cast in S.E. Hinton projects!).
It's about a kid named Rusty-James who is the probaly the toughest boy in his junior-high school.
But he doesn't care about that, the only thing that he wants is to be like his older brother, The motorcycle boy.
The plot of the book is that Rusty-James is rembering the past when he sees his once old best friend Jonny.
The main characters in this book are Rusty-James, Jonny, and The Motorcycle boy.
Jonny is a kid that likes to be careful about things because he knows the consequences.
The motorcycle boy is the toughest kid in there town.
What happened after Motorcycle boy died?" This was, in my opinion, the downside of the book, and also the good part about it.The downside of that is that I felt that the book was very empty, like it didn't really have a beginning or an end.
It was like Hinton made up the author of his life, as I imagined how he strugged to continue without Motorcycle Boy, getting in many fights, drinking too much, etc.
I even came up with my own story to fill in the gap at the end.I think it's a great book, like I said before.

Rusty-James is a young "tough guy" who idolized his older brother, The Motorcycle Boy (real name is never mentioned).
Like any young kid with a cool older brother, Rusty wants to be just like him--tough, carefree, strong and smart.
I think we've all known someone like the Motorcycle Boy. It's that person that seems to be able to do anything and everything, who is effortlessly cool and confident, and who makes life seem easy.
From the outside looking in, they may seem to have all the answers, but deep down they're people just like the rest of us with all kinds of problems and insecurities.
He is not in a gang but it’s like the Outsiders when they are all like a family and they have each others back.I kind of think hes cool because he doesnt care what people think of him.
And he talks about how his life is like in the beginning he had been in a knife fight and doesnt realy care.
I love this book because the author kind of reminds me of me, and because I love books that have to do with gangs and people dieing and when the author describes every thing for you.
Strange little thing, this one.Although part of the reason why I feel that way is probably the fact that it's (I think) the first YA novel I read that was written long before I was born - which, for me, makes it something of a hybrid of a classic style and a modern trend.
Quite different, and really cool, and I'll have to think about it some more because I'm not certain I got everything there was to get, and I simultaneously hate and love this feeling.
Rumble fish is the very good book it's like the outsiders but instead of the friend(ponyboy) dying the brother dies because he was shot by a police for breaking into a pet store and setting animals free. I really think this book is very good because it was like The Outsiders and that book was the one that got me engaged in reading.
This is a really interesting companion piece to The Outsiders. What if Ponyboy didn't stay gold? What if The Outsiders was written from Dally's perspective? It would probably go like this.Rusty James lies to himself constantly, both consciously and subconsciously. He thinks The Motorcycle Boy is deaf, when it's likely TMB is just ignoring hard questions. He forces himself to forget unhappy memories and dulls his mind with fighting and alcohol.How could this have gone differently? How could he have turned out like Ponyboy?
La ley de la calle es un libro realista que trata sobre un chico, Rusty James, que recuerda al encontrarse con un viejo amigo un incidente que sucedió años atrás.
Esto desencadenará una serie de hechos en los que conoceremos los problemas tanto familiares, amorosos y sociales a los que Rusty debe de enfrentarse.
En general el libro me ha gustado, es de un estilo muy similar al de "Rebeldes".
Es una historia muy corta y amena, en la que no sucede gran cosa.
No he llegado a cogerle simpatía a los personajes, pienso que por la corta duración de la historia.
No self-respecting thug would go by Rusty James.
Maybe I should be more forgiving in light of the different era, but S.E. Hinton did so well with The Outsiders that I'm more than a little surprised with her attempt with this book.
Somewhere it says Rumble Fish is more sharply focused than The Outsiders.
There are more questions than answers by the end, and the end itself is a poor attempt to replicate what The Outsiders achieved.
Maybe you're right, but if Rumble Fish had been the first book I'd read of hers, I would have never read another.
Rumblefish is pretty amazing...it's all about a kid named Rusty James who is yearning for a fight. Abandoned by his mother and living with his always drunk father. His only idol is brother motorcycle boy (who he wants to be when he grows up). But never judge or underestimate anyone...thast what i learned from this book..........This book is great...SE.Hinton hasn't let me down
I don't know... I kind of feel like I wasted my time reading this.
She never gets old. Even though this book was written in the 70's still classic to this day!
Più crudo seppur più rispetto a "Ribelli" e "Il giovane Tex".
Rusty è ancora più prono a cercare guai rispetto a Ponyboy e Tex, ispirato lui stesso questa volta dal suo fratello maggiore, tal "Motorcicle boy", personaggio carismatico e in passato temuto capobanda ma ora desideroso di rifarsi una vita più tranquilla.
Coppola, con una fotografia in bianco e nero dalle singolari venature neo-noir e un Mickey Rourke perfetto nel ruolo di "Quello della Moto".
Wow, this was a short read! This felt like an extended short story rather than a full blown novel. Not bad for a quick afternoon read though! 3 stars.
Rusty-James fights a rival from a different town named Biff Wilcox and gets slit open pretty good.
Then one night, Rusty and his friend Steve go out of town with the Motorcycle Boy to party.
Rusty-James is a fourteen year old boy with longer auburn-colored hair.
Rusty and the Motorcycle Boy are the only two that look the way they do.
Rusty's brother, The Motorcycle Boy, is the most feared kid around.
The author does a great job describing the setting throughout the entire book.
I believe the theme of Rumble Fish is about the effects of drugs and alcohol in life.
I thought that it was also about how you should just want to be yourself, because everyone’s life isn’t as great as it may seem.The book starts off with the main character, Rusty James, getting challenged to a fight by the leader of another gang.
Rusty’s friends give him a bike chain to fight with and Rusty is beating him pretty good, but then a kid named Motorcycle Boy shows up.
The main characters for the book are Rusty James and his brother Motorcycle Boy. Rusty is a middle schooler that is known for being the tough kid on the block.
Susan tem um estilo de escrita muito característico e consegue nos transportar, exatamente, para os cenários descritos.
Não há como comparar suas obras, pois todas seguem pela mesma linha e giram em torno do mesmo universo - uma realidade que a autora viu de perto e por isso fala com tanta propriedade.
Aprendi que se você quiser chegar a algum lugar, você tem que se decidir e dar um duro danado até chegar lá.
Se você quer fazer alguma coisa na vida, só tem que trabalhar até conseguir"
My thoughts are @ Bridget Blogs Books
I took me a while to connect to the story and the characters, but once I did I was hooked! Another amazing story by S.E Hinton that is as heartbreaking as it is realistic.
Personal ResponseRumbleFish was a very interesting book. It took place in the late 1960’s when lots of gangs were around. This time era was a very interesting one, because there were kids who were only fifteen years old that killed each other because they were in different gangs. Lots of teenagers brought knives to school and smoked cigarettes because they could. This decade had to be honestly one of the toughest ones.Plot Rusty James was a 15 year old boy who liked to shoot pool and hangout in
This decade had to be honestly one of the toughest ones.Plot	Rusty James was a 15 year old boy who liked to shoot pool and hangout in bars.
The Motorcycle Boy was the person who ended the gang wars.
Rusty James, Steve, and The Motorcycle Boy were all major characters.
Rusty James was a tough boy on the block.
James had always wanted to be just like his brother, The Motorcycle Boy. The Motorcycle boy had a lot of respect from other people.
One day James asked Steve if he wanted to hang out with The Motorcycle Boy and him.
It surely was not for me.Plot-Rumble Fish begins in the life of a nineteen year old boy named Rusty James.
When Rusty meets back up with him, bad memories of Rusty’s past are brought back into his mind.
Motorcycle Boy is Rusty James' older brother.
Towards the end of the book, Motorcycle Boy is in the pet store staring at some Siamese Fighting Fish.
This seems to shape up to be a place for reckless behavior and fights, as usual at bars.Recommendation-I would recommend this book to people between the ages of 18 and 21 because it isn’t extremely action filled.
i read an interview with marcus zusak and he recommended this book - i’m a big ol fan of the outsiders so i gave it a go and daaaamn. it took a little while to get into the swing of the book but i was well and truly hooked by the end! v good.
I read this book in high school and LOVED it. I can't remember the movie, but I'm pretty sure I watched it too.Matt Dillon right? I kinda wish Hinton's books weren't so short.
