https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51715.Mythologies
On Arranging My LibraryArranging a library is no easy task:I think Tolkien will be happy to share hi
There is a longish (longish for a book that isn’t even a couple of hundred pages) essay at the end of the book that works a bit like that old trick of philosophy where the definition is only provided at the end of an enquiry – Hegel says that is how things ought to be, no point defining the term your entire work is setting out to explain up front.
In fact, this whole book is an application of Saussure to cultural signs – and this makes for fascinating reading.
The second part of the book "Myth today", which is some kind of theory of myth, I think is one of the basic work for studying of the Culture.
A collection of short essays on pop culture, politics, and media, Barthes’s Mythologies dissects the cherished myths of the bourgeoisie that governed the daily life of France in the 1950s.
Across fifty-four fast-moving essays, Barthes throws together a hodgepodge of trivial and topical subjects typically ignored by past intellectuals: French wrestling, children’s toys, the Tour de France, astrology, and labor strikes are only a few of his many interests.
Barthes scrutinizes the social assumptions of each of his topics, exposing all of them to be intricate systems laden with insidious meanings.
As groundbreaking as the collection was when Barthes first published it, though, it hasn’t aged well.
I am not a huge critical lit reader but there is something so enjoyable about Barthes' books or essays. I like the way he writes about an everyday object or subject matter - and just tears into it like a very curious scientist. "Mythologies" is one of his more well-known titles and rightfully so. Good writer and I think he's a great reader as well.
For Barthes, wrestling, like biblical narrative, occurs on a horizon so blank, every gesture becomes a clear act of signification.
The rapidly changing positions of the wrestlers splinter the narrative into thematic junctures, like a slide show where each frame of action, perfectly fused with meaning, replaces another.Our interpretation at these points of thematic juncture involves a movement into myth--as Barthes explains it--for we simultaneously generalize and impoverish the meaning of the action on the wrestling mat.
In this essay, like the others Barthes presents in this collection, he emerges for me as the sharpest and most provocative of those writing on semiotics and structuralism.
The innovative essays covered in Mythologies by French semiotician and critic Barthes examines everything from mass culture, its ads and hidden or disguised messages, its icons and politics, its desperate speed in the mid-1950s, and even steak & chips!
By framing the mythic in the quotidian, Barthes ponders over detergent, professional wrestling, Garbo’s face, the Tour de France, a French striptease, plastics, and so much more.
For Barthes, common sense is the enemy, a bourgeois defense against critical theory.
Common sense is simplistic; theory is rich and complex.Some of my faves were - 'The Romans in Films', 'Soap-powders and Detergents', 'Toys', 'Steak and Chips', 'Ornamental Cookery', 'The Great Family of Man'.
Barthes topics range from popular material culture, wrestling, advertising, wine, tourism, astrology and many other things in these 56 essays.
Some topics may be lost on modern readers (they certainly were on me as I don't know much about this era) but at three or four pages in length, the reader can easily marvel at his writing and the translation, even if not fully aware of what he is discussing or criticizing.Considering the historical context of what was happening in France in the 1950s, Barthes is capturing a moment in critical theory and political discourse surrounding the crumbling empire and the rise of mass media.
Barthes takes just a few pages to deconstruct the overt message of each of his myths by showing a deeper distortion: a latent meaning.
Barthes spots a feature in Le Figaro (a French newspaper) on Andre Gide (a writer who, apparently, wrote on how to fully be oneself) reading Bossuet (a theologian and bishop under Louis XIV who, it seems, argued that God attributed divinity to kings).
It’s because the latent message, its deeper meaning, is that a writer is so obviously not a wage worker who needs a holiday.
For men of the Right, Politics is the Left: they are France." I had already experienced much of Barthes peripherally, but sitting down and reading his work was good and I probably should have carved out time earlier.
It might be an Old Fashioned, still good.<<>>==<<>>==<<>>==<<>>==<<>>==<<>>Conversation while reading:Me: There is nothing intuitive about French philosophy to me.DH: How so?Me: German philosophy I just get, this *waves book* this...
It's always a struggle.DH: German philosophy is rational and assumes the reader will be rational; French philosophy does no such thing, makes no such assumptions.Me: I don't like that about it.
I feel this book would have had a much stronger effect on me, if I was somewhat acquainted with the bulk of its subject matter. Since the majority of the chapters centered around prominent figures in French popular culture of the 1950s, the utter lack of information on such subjects by the modern reader thoroughly undermines any criticism; BUT, put in the context of its times, its a remarkable book which is still shockingly relevant
In Mythologies, Barthes, a theorist I previously (and less amiably) met during my Media and Rhetoric class, does a semiotic reading of different aspects of society in order to identify the ideological beliefs that support them.
Each month, between 1954 and 1956, Barthes wrote one essay about the myths of French society.
My favorite chapters were "The World of Wrestling," "The Writer on Holiday," "Blind and Dumb Criticism," "Novels and Children," and "Striptease." Yes, this internationally acclaimed theorist wrote essays on strippers and WWF-style wrestling.
So. Entertaining.I highly recommend Barthes' Mythologies.
While the the exhibition and the article offer this alternative-history on display as a wistful reminder of the many potential Los Angeles-es that could have existed, there is a more sinister criticism of the mayoral governance that the city has had, which aborted the many better projects.
The exhibition comes in stride with a new mayor, Eric Garcetti, and makes the political statement that the unhappy denizens of Los Angeles want more of these projects to be brought to fruition, not left unrealized on scraps of stock-paper.The exhibition is a sign.
However, the central arguments were easy to grasp despite this, and I can't really hold m own ignorance against Barthes.Secondly, all shock value is lost because the structuralist ideas presented by Barthes have since become very commonplace in academia and the humanities.
Again, I can't really blame Barthes for this - if anything it shows how influential he was that now, the conditioning effects of children's toys are well-known and debated, for example, or that the underlying ideology of the 'woman-as-mother' symbol is widely acknowledged and contested.So even though these complaints are not really the fault of Barthes, I can only rate this book as 'OK' because it failed to deliver the cognitive revolution it promised, and lacked shock value.
This edition is in two parts - the first being a series of some fifty or so short essays on certain events or things, and their symbolic/semiotic meanings.
The end of the book is a longish essay, "Myth Today".
It first goes into detail on the definition of 'myths', the deeper meanings behind objects, and offers some examples, (as seen earlier) and applies them directly to political dialogues of both left and right, and the symbols they use to attract or seduce adherents.
What was it like to read Roland Barthes, Umberto Eco, or Guy Debord before Ronald Reagan became president, Arnold Schwarzenegger became governor and the world was recreated in a manmade archipelago off the coast of Dubai?
Roland Barthes is a tremendous writer but this book feels too precious, too quaint; serious conversations about the petite bourgeoise just feel so antiquated in the 21st century.
I read it and think "How romantic!" "How French!" "That's nice!" My sympathies to the author, he had no way of knowing it would get this weird.
أسطوريات رولان بارت لا يقرأ إلا باللغة التي كتب بها، للحقيقة لم أستطع إكمال الكتاب، كانت هناك فجوات كبيرة لا يسهل ردمها، رغم موضوعات مقالاته الجذابة جداً.
Some of the short essays, including "Wine and Milk," "Steak and Chips," "The Blue Guide," and "The Lost Continent," are exemplary demonstrations of the ideas laid out in the long essay, "Myth Today," that concludes the book.
Further examples abound, and as the two above examples show, Barthes' final essay in this volume makes for stimulating reading when mapped onto political landscapes.
Yet the lack of specificity and the abundance of abstraction in the final essay recommend its being read first, before the short essays that precede it in the volume.
Đi ra ngoài “một lúc” là một vùng rỗng, một nửa là ham muốn tiến lên, một nửa là khát khao quay lại để sửa sai, bao cái vùng rỗng ấy lại là nỗi thèm thuồng được yên vị.Muốn sống chậm trước hết phải hiểu rất nhiều chuyện.
Khi có thể giải phóng bản thân khỏi những hân hoan quá vốn dĩ, hiểu được tâm lý thân quen của con người giữa những hiện tượng lạ nhưng gốc rễ cũ kĩ, khi đó con người mới không bị sốc bởi tốc độ của sự "một lúc".Một bữa vui (buồn) có khả năng tàn sát không kém Một bữa no của Nam Cao.

And by "necessary" I mean truly eye opening about our modern existence, and how it isn't really "modern", for we live, even today, in a world of "mythologies" not that different from the ancient Greeks and Romans.The first essay in the volume is everyone's favorite, about how professional wrestling is one of these mythologies, but many of the later ones are equally brilliant, there are too many to point out.
There is so much humor in this book, although that is not the intention of the book, as all of the absurdities of our culture are pointed out.
While some of the essays collected in Mythologies are inevitably dated, their basic premise – the idea of cultural phenomena, everything from washing powder and cars to wrestling matches and the face of Greta Garbo, as 'modern myths' – remains both relevant and accessible. Culminating in the longer, linguistics-heavy essay 'Myth Today', the book is intellectually demanding, but it's also playful and even funny at times. A challenging and thought-provoking break from fiction.
In fact to show you how much it impressed me my favorite part was when the author talks about the "Mythology of French Professional Wrestling" (The French equivalent of American WWE) and how it is essentially a Theatrical Play on Morality with each of the combatants symbolizing different moral principles.
I realize this book was just a compilation of essays, which was both it's strength and weakness.
Strength because it allowed more freedom of movement on the topics covered, weakness because the author lacked any central thesis that really tied it all together into a coherent narrative.

This is a collection of essays--some great (Wrestling, Wine, Tour De France, The Writer on Vacation), some I found to be impenetrable (Neither/Nor Criticism)--each examining a cultural myth and generally exposing it (often as a control tactic of the bourgeois).
This feels like the source or "theory" from where "They Live" comes from.
Or to not feel so dumb reading "The Seventh Function of Language"What's most important to me though--is his apparent role as an influence from Sontag to even Paul Krugman.
"We pick up Derrida's Of Grammatology when we want to wrestle with the idea of play. We pick up Barthes' Mythologies when we want to play with the idea of wrestling."—Samuel R. Delany
هیچ وقت فکر نمی کردم نگاه بارت تا این حد جذبم بکنه ولی این کتاب اثبات کرد بهم که چقدر باید بیشتر و بیشتر بخونم و کمتر به خلاصه های که بقیه از نظریات صاحب نظرها میدن اکتفا کنم.مقدمه کتاب خلاصه ای از نگاه رولان بارت به اسطوره بود.
شاید اگر بارت می تونست جاهای خالی نظریاتش رو که البته نقدهایی هست که به خود ساختارگراها برميگرده رو پر کنه اون موقع می شد گفت که خیلی خیلی اوضاع فرق می کرد.از نگاه بارت اسطوره شناس باید با پرده برداشتن از اسطوره های جامعه مدرن، مردم رو نسبت به تطمیع قدرت هوشیار کنه.
زبان، حالت قراردادی داره اما بورژوازی وقتی دست به ساخت اسطوره ها می زنه دیگر از این قراردادها خبری نیست.
One good point was his discussion of how the bourgeoisie is anonymous, that is how it never lets itself be named (I couldn't help but think of the passage in Fred Halstead's Out Now about the SDS demonstration at the beginning of the antiwar movement, where the speaker says he's going to call the people responsible for the war by their right name, and the older socialists (like Halstead) were disappointed that instead of saying "the capitalists" he said "the power elite"; and of the recent liberal euphemism, the "one percent", which always makes me want to reply, "call them capitalists, that's who they are".) The most important points, however, were that myths function to eliminate history and to "naturalize" artificial historically determined phenomena as if they were eternal natural facts, and that in doing so they "depoliticize" their objects.
So it got a three and not less, because it also had me raging.I love the idea of myth as violence, the idea that it represents the stripping of a word or an image of all of its historical and political content, replacing it with an ideal.
And so when Barthes declares we must strip all richness, all beauty, all ambiguity from words in the name of the revolution, that we must go down to the bones and be entirely practical.
a wonderful book...although it didn't end up going where i thought it would...barthes envisions the 
