https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84370.The_Last_Battle
There is no easy way to put to words something with such enormity as the last battle in the deadliest military conflict in history. And yet, Cornelius Ryan manages to do just that not with the use of staggering statistics, but with a series of stories that even my simple human mind could comprehend. Don't get me wrong, Ryan is thorough in his coverage of the military history of the  Battle of Berlin . However, for me, sometimes the big picture is brought home by the little things, so I'm just go
. However, for me, sometimes the big picture is brought home by the little things, so I'm just gonna go ahead and copy the model of Jeff's lovely review and tell you a few of the many things I learned (or hadn't previously considered).The ZooEarly on Ryan tells us of a zookeeper who, unable to bear the thought of it being left there to perish, took home his favorite rare stork to live in his bathtub.
I won't attempt to devastate you (or myself) with pictures of perished elephants and whatnot, but the thought of the zoo's inhabitants as Berliners made for an interesting meditation.One Way Out of Berlin
I have read several book on the Battle of Berlin but this one stands near, if not at the top, of the list of winners.
The author divides the book into sections.....the City, the Generals, the Objective,the Decision, and the Battle.
The interaction among the Allies as to who should be allowed the honor of entering the city first is fascinating and the fear of the civilians that the Russians would be the invaders was real, as it should have been.
Typical sprawling Ryan--not much new, but he sure brings back some great diary-captured dialogue.
And who knew that around April 25th, 1945, Major Werner Pluskat slipped quietly away from Wenck's 12th Army, swam across the Elbe, and surrendered to the Americans (Bradley)?
Tell me, Herr Major, if they had 10,000 ships, where are they heading?"P: "Right at me!"That's from a different book, but good to know Pluskat deserted the sinking Reich just in time.I think Ryan undercounts Soviet losses taking Berlin (100k in the book), and spends too much time emphasizing the first and second wave of Russians that overran Berlin were professionals, not rapists.
Outstanding book! The author packs so much factual evidence in that it's still making my head spin. Loved this book. Would definitely recommend it to anyone interested in WWII history!
Like the other books of Cornelius Ryan that I have read, The Longest Day and A Bridge Too Far, the author brings immediacy to what in the wrong hands could be a confusing mass of events and people. The book focuses on the last major battle, the Battle of Berlin, and the events that led up to it. A few things I learned from reading the book:1) U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, Henry Morgentheau wanted to eliminate all industry from Germany and turn it into an agricultural state.2) Allied intelligen
This turned out to be a false rumor.3)	The Germans had captured the Allies’ plans to divide up Germany at the end of the war into respective U.S., British and Soviet zones.
He felt it was pointless for troops to give their lives for territory that they would have to give back at the end of the war.5)	On secret orders from Supreme Commander Dwight Eisenhower, a commando group led by Nicholas Joseph Fury was able to neutralize a HYDRA group located 50 miles south of Coberg.*6)	The Allies would routinely use captured vehicles and even planes.
Most hoped the Western Allies would beat the Russians to Berlin.
He did not want to be in southern Germany or near France or Italy.-The decision of a probable mid-level British staff officer to stage the American forces and supplies in south and southwestern England had far ranging impacts to D-Day and the entire campaign.-Col Gen Gotthard Heinrici, given command of Army Group Vistula, is a fascinating character.-Stalin was convinced the Western Allies were going to try to beat him to Berlin.
If you want a great contrast, read Finest Hour: The Battle of Britain, about the desperate situation in 1940.
It kept making me think what would have happened if...Knowing what did happen to Eastern Europe after WWII kept me wishing that things would have turned out differently.
(I use the term "arm" loosely, since most of them were given rifles and ammunition that weren't compatible, so they might as well have been using rocks and spears.) Anyway, if you want to know more about the last bit of the war in Europe, and the reasons things ended up the way they did, this is the book to read.
تمكنت من معرفة كبار قيادات ألمانيا في عهد هتلر، لأن المؤلف قد وضع في ثنايا الكتاب صورا للقيادات العسكرية.
Many Soviets, having a similar lack of knowledge of plumbing, pulled the water faucets from the wall thinking they would have instant access to water whenever they wished."The Last Battle" reiterates the madness that gripped Hitler, especially in those final months, and left me asking once again - why the hell did not even his own top advisors try to stop a man who clearly had no grip on reality and fostered a growing hatred for his own people in those final mad months?Ryan has given us essential insight into an event and a war that should never be forgotten.
Es despreciado por los jerarcas del régimen, a los que también él desprecia; no tiene tropas suficientes, ni municiones, ni blindados, ni apoyo aéreo, ni de donde obtener cualquiera de ellos.
Pero no es sólo eso, es la calidad narrativa que no decae nunca, son los variados puntos de vista (alemanes, rusos, ingleses, norteamericanos y civiles); es la profundidad con la que trata a cada personaje, como un autor de ficción consagrado, consiguiendo transmitir una vibrante empatía, realismo y vitalidad.
Another amazing book about WWII from Cornelius Ryan. Similar to "A Bridge Too Far," Ryan does a skillful job of weaving in personal stories with the bigger political and military picture.My only constructive critique of "The Last Battle" is that the book ends too soon on the historical timeline. Throughout the book he hints at bad things to come with the fall of Berlin transitioning into the beginning of The Cold War, but the book ends a bit abruptly before exploring this more, or providing an epilogue.
A recent trip to Berlin and during a tour of the Reichstag the guide told us that the Red Army that fought in the Berlin battle on the soviet side could have had one third women front line soldiers.
Who to believe?The description of the information the allies based their strategy on was questionable, such as the phantom German redoubt in Bavaria.
Hitlers delusion of imaginary German armies and madness was evident as was his cronies such as Goebbels.
All in all a good read and it was good to see Henrici finally disobeying Hitlers orders to save his men.
A well-done history with the usual Ryan cast of thousands which at times made it hard to follow.
He focused on both civilian and military actors, and he was able to interview many of the principals, including Russians, in writing the book.
It appears his research was mainly based upon interviews and diaries.Antony Beevor has written a more recent history of the battle of Berlin which I have not read (it is not available as an audiobook) so I can't compare versions.
I generally like the Beevor histories, although they sometimes take a very deep look (at the smallest unit level) in describing military actions.
Ryan tries the same formula that worked for him in "The Longest Day" and "A Bridge Too Far" but doesn't seem to work as well this time, perhaps because there's lots of politics and top-level scrambling involved and less "action" -- sure, there's action, but not in as great a detail as "A Bridge .
. ." -- probably not as much as in "TLD," too, but I haven't read that.Ryan seems to have interviewed scads of people but there's not really a good thread running through the book.
And as far as coverage of the battle for Berlin goes, it's not much of a history -- just a bunch of anecdotes.
I'm much higher on Anthony Beevor's account.Will review bibliography again but probably not a keeper.
“The Last Battle” describes in detail the military commanders, as well as the civilians, caught in the final drive to Berlin.Although the outcome of this battle is widely known (Berlin falls to the Soviets), there are a few surprises in the book for those who may not be experts on WWII history.
Of note, there was apparently no plan to evacuate the women and children civilians, and much of Berlin's forces consisted of old men and young boys.The book, while long at 500+ pages, is written in a dramatic fashion with some attempt at fleshing out the personalities and the urgency of the moment.
Terrific history and sublime story-telling - there is a reason this books has stood the test of time - I only wish I'd read it earlier.There's not much point in reviewing a highly regarded, commercially successful book that, after nearly 50 years, is still widely accessible on library and bookstore shelves.
And you can't help but care about all of them.Oh, and the icing on the cake is a generous dose of photos, which makes this brilliant web of human interest stories even more, well, human.The book represents an epic achievement, and I'm glad I finally took the time to read it.
In The Last Battle, Ryan not only writes about the Battle of Berlin, but thoroughly covers the last few months of the war in Europe from the end of the Battle of the Bulge through May of 1945.
Ryan's account is just the right level of detail to get a good understanding of how the end of the war in Europe unfolded.
I thought that the last battle did a good job of telling the battle of Berlin from different viewpoints and not the American or the Soviet or the Nazi but rather a combination of all the sides. I also liked how it not only dealt with the political and military leaders but also about the common man. I especially enjoyed the parts about the battle's impact on the Berlin Zoo. Overall it was a well written book about the final battle of the European theater.
It was hard to put this book down. Ryan captures your attention in the first pages and your attention never wanes. It was the first non-fiction that I felt read like a novel. Well written, very informative and conveyed the atmosphere on all sides German, Russian, and the Western Allies, that prevailed in the last days of Berlin.
Cornelius Ryan, author of the gripping book, The Last Battle, narrates the dark and politically grim tale of WWII, perhaps one of the more horrifying battles in American history.
The book doesn't start from the beginning of the war, but instead skips to the more climatic part of the battle; the last three weeks of WWII, commonly known as The Battle of Berlin.
Alongside that, the book details two sides to the story; the German generals feeling hopeless with their Fuhrer as he contemplates more ridiculous plans to capture Berlin, and the U.S President and generals, as they discover the horrors of the Berliners, foreigners,the German society, and the concentration camps.
Over a decade of research, multilingual research, thousands of hours of interviews, incredible skill at getting people on all sides and positions of the conflict to open up, an 11-page bibliography.Now all you need is...
He tells the truth and is no apologist for sins in the name of the alleged greater good.
Besides the main thrust of the story, Ryan is very skilled at showing the resilience of the German people.
He has a Michener-like ability to weave individual stories and larger themes together, each illuminating the other.
I am going to clear out some other books to make space for this one.
This historical account of the the events leading up to the Last Battle for the fall of Berlin was written in the same style.
Because the author used journals, documents, letters and personal interviews of the surviors, this book came close to reading like a novel.
I also came to have a better understanding where some of the "ledgenary" figures of the US forces who have had movies made about their escapades got their reputations.I recommend this book to anyone wanting to have a better understanding of the last few months that lead up to the end of WWII.
A magnificent work of WWII History.
I was familiar with Cornelius Ryan's work from citings by other historians, but The Last Battle is the first of his books that I've read.
I now see why he is considered one of the authorities of WWII History in the European Theater.
The story of the final weeks of war in Germany, as Ryan depicts it, is absolutely fascinating.
I highly recommend this book for anyone interested in WWII History, and an looking forward to reading the author's other books.
This book was like a novel with hundreds of characters.
It shows the dread the germans felt as the Red Army was closing in on Berlin.
They really wanted the Americans to conquer them first because they knew they would be treated civilly.
Instead the red army came in and enacted vengeance on them for what the German army had done to their people in Stalingrad and Moscow.
It was a great book though.
After he committed suicide Hitler’s body was doused with gasoline and set ablaze.
What did Hitler’s burning body smell like?
According to a witness it smelled like burning bacon.
Totally riveting. Ryan is a master at painting both the broad picture of allied and German armies colliding as the allies approach Berlin as well as the telling individual detail. He includes myriad anecdotal accounts of what faced Berliners - hidden Jews and communists as well as the general civilian Berlin population. The tragedy of ordinary citizens sacrificed to Nazi incompetence and hesitation as no evacuation order was issued and the administration of the city fell into total chaos. He also describes in detail the last days of Hitler and the inhabitants of the fuehrer bunker.
An incredibly well researched description of the Battle of Berlin, from military preparations to the fight for survival of the city's residents. Ryan takes the stories of soldier and civilians and turns them into not just facts and figures but the whole tale, from "when we gonna race to Berlin" and "how the hell am I going to defend Berlin" to "Berlin is ours, now they will learn what Soviet payback is" and "all I want is to survive this.
This book was intense. The thing that I most like about Ryan's book is that they are stories of individuals. Battles are fought by individuals, and this seems often to be lost in narratives of wins and losses. It's often forgotten that the biggest impact is often on the noncombatants. It is important the war has a human face, which hopefully makes it all seem less glorious.
The last 100 pages of the book are really good. This is where the Red Army begins its final assault on Berlin and everything goes belly up for the Reich.However, like most non-fiction books, the beginning part of the book is very detailed and can get long. A lot of that information is good, but it is also what makes reading non-fiction difficult for me.
Superb. Meticulously researched and skillfully written, it conveys the broad scope of the battle but especially the personalities and experiences of people of all ranks and walks of life. The barbarity and heroism of endless situations are adeptly described. Ryan is a superb storyteller and chosen a very compelling subject.
It was the one book that ignited the fire to read books in me, I really love the book. The description of Pongavaska or the Naval officer whose leg was blown but still there was calm on his face description are really great..... I love this book.
