https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/439275.Princess_in_the_Spotlight
WHY DIDN'T I START THIS REREAD LIKE A MILLION YEARS AGO???I mean, honestly. These books:- are the literary equivalent of a warm cinnamon roll (speaking of which: I'm going to go microwave a cinnamon roll so let's make this review quick, yeah?)- take literally like 45 minutes to read- are nostalgic af- surprisingly, are pretty inoffensive for the early 2000s- contain a romance you kinda root for??? And it's a slow burner! Hurray.Bottom line: THIS REREAD WILL CONTINUE. Hard to say whether current me or 12 year old me is more thrilled about it.
I AM LOVING THIS SERIES IT IS SO ADORABLE OMG
While I still loved this book, I don't think it's AS good as the first, and I think it's closer to 4.5 stars.Mia finally starts having to do more public Princess things like her big interview (man could you IMAGINE?
More with her mom and (sort of) love life though!Definitely a fun book and I'm looking forward to rereading the next one!(view spoiler)[ One thing that I noticed this time rereading the books, is how quickly Mia moves on from Josh to Michael.
Then again, Mia is 14 and we know how crushes go at that age I guess...I remember the first time reading this I TOTALLY thought that Jo-C-Rox was Michael, just like Mia hoped.
I simply adore these books. This one was equally as adorable as the first and I'm excited to get to the next one! I love Mia because she feels authentic to me - confused, unassuming and of course surprisingly intuitive. I really like how adults are portrayed in this series. They are in extraordinary circumstances but they are very real and flawed. I really can't say anything bad. Loved it all around! :)
Reread on 4/29/15: I adore this series. All the 2001 pop culture references were pure gold. Can't wait to reread all the rest of the books as well!
A Mia continua sendo uma personagem maravilhosa e tô amando acompanhá-la novamente! O proximo livro da série eu nunca li, então daqui pra frente só surpresas. Tô super empolgada!
I still am not behind Mia and Lilly's friendship 100%. Also, I never realized how short a span these books cover. This one takes place only a month after Mia learns she's a princess. And she is still bemoaning her flat chestedness and height of 5'9. Come on, kiddo. It'll be okay.
Wow, every time I re-read a Princess Diaries book, I just fall more and more in love with Mia. In A Royal Disaster, Mia has now come to terms with the fact that she is the sole heir to the Genovian throne, and is having daily princess lessons with her Grandmere to prepare for the upcoming visit to Genovia in December.
Next thing we know, there's a royal wedding being planned for Helen and Mr G, and Mia feels guilty for it all.As with The Princess Diaries, family is really important in A Royal Disaster.
This i very interesting book. I realy love M.C. books. I think she's very, very clever and modern. I realy like that Mia is a feminist;)I luve Princess Diaries;)
I simply adore this series <3 I would love to have Mia as a friend ^^
While I did initially enjoy it (a lot), when I was planning the reread, I didn’t think I was going to enjoy it as much.I was wrong.That being said, Princess in the Spotlight wasn’t a perfect book.
There were some things I just wanted to shake Mia for.Mainly, her love life.It was very obvious Kenny was the one behind the secret notes, but once again I think this is an age thing more than anything else.Some of the jokes in this installment have also gone a little stale with the passage of time-but that’s a given for about every book in the series.A good reflection point,I think, in this book is Lilly and Boris’s relationship.
This was so much fun, as expected :)
I've never liked the movies, but at least they cut out most of the unnecessary junk that fills these books. Are boyfriends and kissing really the most important things on the mind of the average 15-year-old girl?
First Read: April 2009
Reading challenge 2016: #26 A book and its sequel  (2/2)I know this series isn't the best. It's kind of ridiculous and it's full of cliches. But the last book was fun. I don't know why this book bothered me so much. Maybe it wasn't the moment for this kind of story. Or maybe this second part was worse. It's full of racism and misogyny. *The protagonist thinks that Koreans can be racist to white people (spoiler: no, people of color can't be racist to their oppressors)*They mention Donald Trump.
(2/2)I know this series isn't the best.
It's kind of ridiculous and it's full of cliches.
I don't know why this book bothered me so much.
Maybe it wasn't the moment for this kind of story.
No. They invited Donald Trump to (view spoiler)[her mother wedding.
All Mia attitude, that she knows better than (view spoiler)[her mom how take care of the baby (hide spoiler)], is exhausting.
And even if you have, it isn't your decision.
Especially when Mia mentions this talking about teen moms.
Oh Zeus, I don't know if I would read the next one now.
After finishing the first book in the series, I needed to pick up the next one right away.
(view spoiler)[Even the fact that her grandmere was planning a wedding for her mother.
(hide spoiler)] I mean, one or two times would have been OK, but seriously, this thing about 'memory loss' was annoying :/The other thing was Lily.
Damn she is annoying as hell in this series!
And I do see Mia growing a little bit more with every book, but sadly this does not happen to Lily.I'm really glad that Mia have other friends besides her, like Tina and Shameeka.
This series is so fun to listen to! I love that it's Anne Hathaway who does the narration. Mia is a very funny character and even if her reactions are too much I care about her. I'm glad I'm enjoying it even if it's so different than the movies.
Okej så bok nummer 2 var inte lika bra som ettan. Men bra ändå liksom
I think the diary aspect, although somewhat original and gimmicky at the time, really makes it hard to comment on the plot of the book.
Her Mia is so sweet and innocent and somewhat naïve, her Grandmere sounds like an old French woman who’s been smoking and drinking her entire life, even her impression of Mia’s father is decidedly masculine.
So you see, the plot doesn’t sound very riveting, but it’s Hathaway’s performance of a very likeable Mia that makes me enjoy listening to thee audiobooks so much.
At A GlanceGenre: Young Adult; Chick lit; RomanceLove Triangle/Insta Love?: Slight Triangle.
Cliff Hanger: nope.Rating: 4 StarsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  8Plot:  8Characters: 8World Building: 7Flow:  8Series Congruity: 9Writing: 8Ending: 8Total: 8In DeptBest Part: Mia's interview had me laughing!Worst Part: I feel bad for KennyThoughts Had: Oh no, that's gonna end badly; Yep, i was right; Poor Kenny!ConclusionContinuing the Series: yesRecommending: yesShort Review: Lily is still my favorite.
Mia should have seen it was kenny, you badly give him mixed signals all day every day it seems.
The interview was so funny, i laughed a lot in this book.
Review in GIF Form:
It's not as good as the first but it's okay because Mia is still the best. I highly recommend listening to Rooney as a soundtrack to these books to fully maximize the nostalgia of watching lead singer Robert Schwartzman be a very hot if somewhat inaccurate depiction of Michael Moscovitz in the movie.
There is a chapter in this book where author Meg Cabot describes FERGIE having a conversation with DONALD TRUMP. That's all I wanted to mention.Nevertheless, this is definitely better than the first instalment in the series! Mia is becoming more mature.
FUN :)
Nää kirjat on ihan parhaita!
Deciding to reread this series has proved to be awesome so far.
This wasn't my favorite book (I liked the first one better) but if I have to read it to reread the series, then I shall!I really loved Mia's voice and how the author made her seem so real and alive.
She came across to me as very whiny and pushy.As always, I do like the diary style of the book - it really fits Mia's voice and the tone of the whole book.The Final Verdict:Another great installment of The Princess Diaries although the first book is still my favorite.
Mia's voice is very well done and I loved watching her navigate through teenage life as well as finding out she's a princess and expected to rule a country in a few short months.
This series is one of those one time readers which one may find cute and adorable. The book continues on its path of how Mia discovers and handles different new experiences she has to face because of being a princess. I would never read it again but for the first time it was quite okay.
Her grandmother then embarks on plans for a full scale royal weddingIn her own private life, Mia is getting secret admirer mail from someone at her school, and she hopes it's Michael, Lilly's older brother whom she has a crush on.
Meanwhile Lilly keeps disappearing with Mia's hunky cousin Hank, and Mia's feeling a bit peeved at all the secrets.Princess in the Spotlight has all the trademark Mia quirks and humour, but sometimes she does get a bit repetitive.
What is a princess to do?After reading the first book in this series I went to the library and just happened to see the rest of the books (11 of them) sitting on the shelf so I loaded them into my bag and found myself diving into a week long Princess fest.
And I enjoyed ever minute of it!This whole series is a fun, light hearted read, though in some of the later books, it focuses more on sex (talk rather than action) than some parents might find appropriate for their teen daughters.
I would suggest a read through first.
For some reason, not as amazing as I remembered from my preteen memories when I adored this series, but still a lot of fun. It's a super quick read, and enjoyable even for older readers.
