https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80176.Winesburg_Ohio
i apologize in advance - this might become my most oddly formatted "book review" ever, just because i can't stop free-associating with the way i am feeling from this damn book that i didn't even like from the outset, but as the stories progressed, something in me kept brewing and growing and mutating, and now it is an unstoppable force in my heart-region.the plot is deceptively simple: it is a town full of people unable to express themselves properly clawing and clutching at the one person they feel has the power of expression and who will release them somehow from their mute longings and joys and limitations.
Despite the increasing ability to interact on a global scale during which the book is set, the citizens of Winesburg find themselves trapped in a cage of internal anguish and alienation of their own design, and seek out those with the true creative capabilities to express the emotions they cannot manage to make plain, and Anderson delivers their stories of struggle and strife through his unflinching, connected short stories that culminate towards a dazzling depiction of the human condition.There is something very modern about this slim novel published back in 1919, yet it retains that wonderfully nostalgic feeling that come alive in me when I read the works of authors such as Steinbeck and Faulkner, a feeling as peaceful as the a warm summers day from your childhood that makes you believe your own coming-of-age tales are as epic as the words printed upon the pages of novels that stand as monuments in the history of literature.
A beautiful, melancholy song to small-town loneliness and despair--to the fragile bonds that tie neighbors together and the vivid lives and heartfelt personal dramas that pulse beneath the surface of ordinary affairs.
This was once a book I carried with me everywhere, a book I tried (and failed) to emulate in my own writing, and a book whose sentences I'd whisper to myself to catch something of their hypnotic cadences.
It's easy to see how influential this book was on so much American literature: from Hemingway to Faulkner to Thomas Wolfe to Updike, they (and we) all owe Sherwood Anderson a tremendous debt for opening up the possibilities of fiction in a uniquely American landscape.
Winesburg, Ohio: A Group of Tales of Ohio Small-Town Life, Sherwood Anderson تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دوازدهم نوامبر سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: کتاب عجایب: واینزبرگ اوهایو؛ نویسنده: شروود آندرسن؛ مترجم: روحی افسر؛ ویراستار: شهرام شیدایی؛ تهران، نیلوفر، 1383؛ در 247 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1384؛ موضوع: داستانهای کوتاه از نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 معنوان: واینزبورگ اهایو؛ نویسنده: شروود اندرسن؛ مترجم: فرانک جواهری؛ تهران، نشر نیماژ، 1395؛ در 216 ص؛ شابک: 9786003672772؛ واینزبرگ، اوهایو منطقه ای ست در حال دگرگونی،
Winesburg, Ohio: A Group of Tales of Ohio Small-Town Life, Sherwood Anderson تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دوازدهم نوامبر سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: کتاب عجایب: واینزبرگ اوهایو؛ نویسنده: شروود آندرسن؛ مترجم: روحی افسر؛ ویراستار: شهرام شیدایی؛ تهران، نیلوفر، 1383؛ در 247 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1384؛ موضوع: داستانهای کوتاه از نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 معنوان: واینزبورگ اهایو؛ نویسنده: شروود اندرسن؛ مترجم: فرانک جواهری؛ تهران، نشر نیماژ، 1395؛ در 216 ص؛ شابک: 9786003672772؛ واینزبرگ، اوهایو منطقه‌ ای ست در حال دگرگونی، و آندرسن در این کتاب زندگی آدم‌های واقعی همین شهر خیالی را روایت می‌کند؛ زندگی آدمهایی که هر روز به سر کار خویش میروند، فرزند خود را دوست میدارند، آدم‌هایی که محروم به دنیا می‌آیند، ناکام زندگی میکنند، و هماره در حسرت آن چیزهایی هستند که نمی‌توانند داشته باشند.
«El amor es como un viento que agita la hierba debajo de los árboles en una noche oscura—le había dicho—.
En su opinión, siempre que alguien se apropiaba de una verdad, la llamaba su verdad y trataba de regir su vida por ella, se convertía en un ser grotesco y la verdad que había abrazado se transformaba en una falsedad.… Narración de vivencias secretas, de oscuros y diáfanos vínculos, ‘Winesburg, Ohio’ constituye un acercamiento delicado, sutil, poético y en ocasiones también brutal y descarnado, a unos personajes que nunca dejamos de amar (cómo olvidar, por ejemplo, al doctor Reefy y su relación con Elizabeth Willard).
Tomando prestadas las palabras de Wing Biddlebaum (maestro y peón): un libro para tratar de olvidar lo que se ha aprendido, para empezar de nuevo.
What you will see in this unforgettable experiment and ONE OF THE BEST NOVELS out there (where for the first time it is proposed that literature itself is dangerous, that printed material can be lethal): traumas, superstition and tradition; downfalls, nepotism, patricide, misogyny, incest, homosexuality, false promises and doom--examples of mothers going through her son's things in the sure makings of the Norman Bates legend--motifs of hands, of mothers, of homecomings, of back alleys & apes (like Flannery O'Connor's "Wise Blood"), surplus of churches, of nature itself (birds & bats) in rebellion--moments of intense rapture in full Joan of Arc scariness--characters creating themselves, in that tricky but amazing Quixotean trick.This trippy and soul-churning fantasia is a true EXPERIENCE.
I loved, sympathized with and related to each individual, even down to that pervy preacher who just needs to get over that Jesus shit and let himself wank it guilt-free.
His voyeuristic position is a perfect illustration of how it feels to read this series of shorts...like you're crouched in a dark room peeping across the way into the windows of each character and using your Sookie Stackhouse powers to penetrate their most personal of personal thoughts.
He'll read you, too, if you let him.
I love you, Sherwood, Robin Hood-y name and all.
Fuck, I loved this book...I loved its drab mood, and existential feel.I loved the descriptive writing, and the small town, midwest setting, with the seasons and people changing, but life in general, staying the same.I loved the wild brilliance to the endings.More than anything, and what made this novel truly special to me, was its insight into the raw emotions and psychological underpinnings of people's inner worlds.
Reading this felt like peering into human nature.I loved the depth of characters; their being out of place, hoping, secretly yearning for more.
I mean, just take a good look at a few of ‘em: Wing Bindlebaum lugs around the (unfounded) rumors of his pedophilia, keeping him from expressing himself freely; Elizabeth Willard suffers from marrying her cold, neglectful husband Tom because 'he was at hand and wanted to marry at the time when the determination to marry came to her' (ah, romance!); Elmer Crowley is so obsessed with the fear of being perceived as strange (or 'queer' in the original sense of the term), that he makes of himself the most inexplicable town oddity; and Alice Hindman, who I think is the saddest one of all (no small feat), saves herself for a man who has left town and forgotten her and lies in bed at night 'turning her face to the wall [and:] trying to force herself to face bravely the fact that many people must live and die alone, even in Winesburg.' Wow is right.
There’s something I want to talk to you about.Look, we’ve been reading each other for a few weeks now, and I think we’ve both had a good time.
Then there was Uncommon Carriers--we didn’t actually do anything, it was more of a cerebral thing, if you know what I mean--and I just got out a long relationship with Mining the Sky, so I’ve been thinking a lot about the future...I’m with Kraken now.
I want to reread you sometime--I really do!--and I think that someday, maybe, there will come a time where I'm not reading anything else and it can be just the two of us, together.
There is something beautiful about every single sentence that Anderson writes.
Some of the stories in 'Winesburg, Ohio' (Death, Loneliness, the Strength of God, Godliness, and Adventure) were nearly perfect.
Others, while they might not have hit me as hard as those five, were still almost uniformly beautiful and interesting.
Like waves beating rhythmically against a wall, Anderson's stories seemed to gently deliver a message from the universe of the grotesque.
'Winesburg, Ohio' is a great piece of American fiction and an amazing piece of 2oth century art.
But, as I read Winesburg, I started to understand why Valerie Solanas penned her manifesto.Okay, that's a bit harsh.
George thought she must have rubbed her nose with her finger after she had been handling some of the kitchen pots.”  Good old woman's work, thanks for taking one for the team, Weezie.
years pass and she starts to feel like the spinster she has become and decides one night to run naked in the rain.
'Tandy' (stripper name???) be a good girl and go talk to Alice and Elizabeth and see what your future REALLY looks like, kay?Then there's Kate Swift.
Winesburg, Ohio is a collection of short stories about the inhabitants of the small town of Winesburg, it is a very real story about the lives of "normal" people.
For example, the second story in the book is called Hands and tells the tale of Wing Biddlebaum through his hands that have inspired emotions from wonder to hatred in the hearts of the people he has known in his life.
THE BEST LAID PLANSA man and woman meet at a bar.
Minutes pass and the woman emerges from her room in dominatrix attire to find the man nude, spent and smoking a cigarette.
The man remembers boyhood, when the dream of being a writer was new.
One day he is accosted at the school bus stop by another boy named Jose who is jealous of the attentions of the resident alpha-female.
The school bus shows up just as Jose's family spill from their house, whipped into a bloodlust that the most fervent mujahideen would envy.
He loves his daughter.
I've just started this but I have in mind the American radio show This American Life and the snarly description they quoted from a (I've never watched it but I gather it was sort of trashy) tv show, "Is that that [radio:] show by those hipster know-it-alls who talk about how fascinating ordinary people are?"Anyone can read this book and call it beautiful, moving, insightful, etc.
But someone who reads this and then continues to snub the "common" man for no reason other than boredom, a perceived sense of 'cool,' or appearances has learned nothing and could be called a hipster know-it-all douchebag.
The town, and not young George, is the real protagonist.As a stylist, Anderson prefers short declarative sentences (He is said to have been an important influence on Hemingway, though Hemingway never acknowledged that influence.) and as the omniscent narrator he prefers tell over show.Since Winesburg is clearly based on Clyde, Ohio, the small town in which Anderson spent his years from age eight to eighteen, one has to wonder what his life was like there.
If you ever want to engage in a fun experiment I suggest you do the following, which I've arranged in a convenient, step-by-step format.A) Fall in love with a girlB) This might be hard to arrange by yourself, but the girl has to move away from you- but not because you split or anythingC) Stay away from her for a whileD) Save up your money devotedly (i.e. stop smoking for a week) so you can afford to go visit her.E) Take a 7 hour bus ride to where she resides, which may or not be a hippy/freak/artist university in Northampton, MAF) Arrive.
In the two dozen or so linked vignettes that make up his account of the small town of Winesburg, Anderson gives voice to the lonely, the dispossessed, to those, whose own emotional inarticulacy has made them outsiders in their own town.
There is a sweetness in the telling of these stories that is reminiscent of Carson McCullers in "The Ballad of the Sad Cafe" or "The Member of the Wedding".I think the reason I react so strongly to the stories in Winesburg, Ohio is partly because I can identify with the outsider status of many of the protagonists.
In fact, I don’t remember much about the book at all: another bad sign.
(Note: I think all of the above are in the book; I tried leafing through it again for specific details, but got bored even rereading the flat, declarative sentences and their dull, portentous titles like “The Strength Of God,” “The Thinker” and (seriously!) “Loneliness.”) I liked best a series of stories linked by a couple of characters: one group of four stories tells the history of a prosperous farming family, while another pairing of two tales links a lonely, horny pastor and a schoolteacher he becomes obsessed with and George himself.
When European artists want to place their symbolical tale in a setting that’s nowhere and everywhere they often settle for Central-Eastern Europe.
If you looked at those maps on Buzzfeed where Europeans were asked to label American states, you saw that the whole of Midwest was usually covered with question marks.Sherwood Anderson grew up in Ohio and invented a little town in Ohio to place his stories of sadness and grotesque.
He thought about himself and to the young that always brings sadness."Anderson is a great poet of a small town, so generous towards his subjects, never sparing any effort to describe their inner lives in the greatest detail.
First read, 2-stars:The Goodread Illuminati have really suffered Stockholm Syndrome with this one.
Twice.Second read, 4-stars:Thank goodness for the Goodread community.
Just wanted to make that testament.I read more slowly, and therefore more thoroughly, keeping in mind I was almost 3 stars away from average.
If he be an imaginative boy a door is torn open and for the first time he looks out upon the world, seeing, as though they marched in procession before him, the countless figures of men who before his time have come out of nothingness into the world, lived their lives and again disappeared into nothingness.
Non devi diventare un venditore ambulante di parole.
Devi imparare quello che la gente pensa, non quel che la gente dice”.Osservare un campo di grano come se fosse il mare; fare in segreto quello che fanno i giovani sotto gli alberi; scoprire in questo modo la propria piccola parte nel disegno dell'esistere.
Racconti che trasportano meravigliosamente e lasciano dentro memorie ostinate: il grido dell'essere, un'impronta indelebile, una nostalgia ineguagliabile.“Un desiderio di parole lo sopraffece, cominciò a pronunciare parole senza nesso, se ne riempiva la bocca e le buttava fuori perché erano parole coraggiose, piene di significato.
Now I can hear you asking, "Why should I give a flying fig?" Well all I will say is, if you care about great literature you just have to read this book someday."Winesburg" is called a novel but it is an unusual one for sure.
It reads more like a collection of short stories focusing on the inhabitants of this small American town.
He feels for these people to be sure but not enough to waste words overwriting.Read this book and I think it will surprise you how modern a novel written in 1919 can seem almost a hundred years later.
Introduction--The Book of the Grotesque--Hands, concerning Wing Biddlebaum--Paper Pills, concerning 
Okay, a few years later.), after a re-read:"Many people must live and die alone, even in Winesburg." There is no way to make my original one star reaction after the first reading of this book meet up with my present feelings about it.
The stories that appealed to me most this time were about those people who, like trees, have been kept from growing in the right direction and have become stunted, twisting their limbs towards whatever sunlight and air they can reach.
A couple weeks ago, since my daughter had decided on a birthday party at Build-a-Bear Workshop, we had to take a trip to the dreaded mall.
I don't like the mall.
(How do they do this?) I even spotted an angry-looking kid wearing a shirt that stated, "I ♥ TATTOOED BITCHES", with a girl who couldn't have been more than 14 hanging all over him.
Ugh.Point being, whenever I'm feeling sickened by humanity, the best cure for me seems to be an amazing book and a hefty dose o' goodreads.
Winesburg, Ohio was that amazing book.

Around 11pm you stop for the evening and mark the occasion with a defeated sounding "Fuck it!" Now you feel like you can finally sit down with a drink and a book, six hours after you had initially intended for the moment to arrive.At a time such as this when you are feeling like the biblical Job of the Information Era, perhaps this is not the book that you want to sit down with if you are in need of a spiritually uplifting tome.Here is the part where I pull together two totally disparate pop culture artifacts in a questionable attempt at wit/hipster-cornpone wisdom.
Este cuento está dividido en cuatro partes en las que se nos cuentan las vicisitudes de la familia Bentley, sobre todo del cabeza de familia, Jesse Bentley, obsesionado con ser el elegido de Dios y conseguir cuantas más riquezas mejor.
Y por fin, George Willard se decide.Tras la lectura de estos cuentos, no me extraña que escritores de la talla de Faulkner, Hemingway o Steibeck, por citar unos pocos, hablasen de Anderson como de una de sus más significativas influencias.Recomiendo este libro a todos aquellos que amen las palabras y las buenas historias.
If there is one reason though, this doesn't get the five star treatment, its because too often the stories are an intricate tableaux vivant of life (in Winesburg), but as with all stills, the freeze frame leaves me wanting more: the next moment, the resolution, the evolution, the development: anything please, not just this carcass spread open to fester silently.I love the his writings, but I have a bone to pick with Anderson the man, a cad in real life who abandoned his wife and three young children in Ohio in order to slum it in Chicago in protest against materialism, for which many writers apparently praised (and emulated him).
