https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32257.The_Sinner
This is the third suspense novel in her Rizzoli and Isles series, and I confess, it’s a practically a sin that I haven’t gotten around to reading this book until now.
Now that I’ve returned to Gerritsen’s series, I won’t be waiting another three years to read the next one.The first two books focused primarily on Detective Jane Rizzoli.
Must be the flu, she says.When they are called to a crime scene at an abbey for a contemplative order of nuns, Rizzoli and Isles face challenges different from any they have faced before.
It was different to the others because instead of heavily relying on the surgeon (and the apprentice), it focused on Rizzoli & Isles solving a few cases and dealing with personal issues.
So instead of getting the Surgeon's POV, we got Maura Isles' POV alongside Rizzoli's.
I kind of wish that it was just Rizzoli's POV in this book because reading Isles' POV just made me like the book less.
I still think this is a good series and I will keep reading on.
I know it sounds like I'm sort of bashing this book but I did give it 3.5 stars, which isn't bad and I did enjoy it.
As Jane Rizzoli and Maura Isles investigate, it leads them toward some highly surprising and divergent paths, including connections to other circumstances.
This is the book where we learn more about Maura Isles, finally.
Nicknamed the Queen of the Dead because of what she does and her gothic look, Maura had to be more complex than a caricature (she is) and that unfolds.
And, her relationship with Jane Rizzoli develops beyond their roles of detective and medical examiner.
I really liked the story because of this and the complexity of the cases.
The third book in the Rizzoli & Isles series and we get to know the characters better.
Especially Maura Isles who until this book seemed to have more of a supporting role.
The story opens with Isles performing an autopsy when she receives a call from detective Jane Rizzoli asking her to come to a crime scene.The scene is the chapel of Our Lady of Divine Light, a cloistered convent.
There two nuns were savagely attacked.
20 year old Sister Camille is dead.
Who would attack nuns?
Sister Camille is dead but maybe she can tell Maura Isles what happened.
Gerritsen, one more time, now through The Sinner, made me hook into her writing until the end, NOT letting me to put it down, despite a few flaws I found that I dare myself to point again.A crime envolving two nuns, in the circuntances presented by Jane and Maura therewith the investigation of the case, conduces us to initially match the name of the book to the probable "nickname" that could characterize one of the victims.
Tess Gerritsen Fans Group Link - my second read In Boston's snow filled December, Reverend Mother Mary Clement of Our Lady of Divine Light, needs help:(1) Sister Ursula Rowland(68) - beaten into "comatose", a trained nurse back after a India mass slaughter in a abandoned Octogon Chemical plant.(2) Sister Camille Maginnes(22) - murdered, was pregnant & baby found dead - consensual or rape? DNA tests needed to clear Father Daniel Brophy. They talk to Randell(her father) & Lauren(stepmothe
In Boston's snow filled December, Reverend Mother Mary Clement of Our Lady of Divine Light, needs help:(1) Sister Ursula Rowland(68) - beaten into "comatose", a trained nurse back after a India mass slaughter in a abandoned Octogon Chemical plant.(2) Sister Camille Maginnes(22) - murdered, was pregnant & baby found dead - consensual or rape?
Was it a Paid killer?(view spoiler)[A nice end, Dr.Maura Isles in Boston at St.Antony's church watches Det.Jane Rizzolli & FBI Agent Gabriel Dean wed by Father Daniel Brophy.Maura & Father Brophy visit the church's alcove & light 3 candles for Sister Rowland, Sister Maginnes & the "Faceless leper".
A complex case for Jane Rizzoli and Maura Isles with some red herrings thrown in.
The case kicks off in with the violent assault of two nuns in a convent, leaving one dead and one grievously injured.
The gruesome find of a hideously mutilated body in an abandoned building also keeps Rizzoli and Isles busy.
Both must also deal with their love lives as Maura's ex husband turns up wanting a second chance and Jane must confront her feelings about FBI agent Gabriel Dean.
After some twists and turns and some top class investigative and forensic detective work a shocking international cover-up is discovered, but not before a thrilling ending.
This is perhaps the best book of this series I have read so far.This is a well written murder mystery featuring Rizzoli, the tough female detective, and her colleague and friend, Isles.
Maura Isles is the Medical Examiner (ME) who "processes" the dead involved in violent crimes.
Rizzoli and Isles are called to the crime scene.The author takes the reader through the processing of clues.
I also found my mouth watering at the description of the Christmas dinner being prepared at the Jane Rizzoli's parents house.Here's a story where I was totally absorbed in the mystery and its characters.
Odusevljena cak sam i seriju pocela da gledam.
Serinin her kitabı gibi bittiğinde bi sonraki kitabı fazlasıyla merak uyandırıyor. Ayrıca Rizzoli ve İsles hakkın da daha çok detaya girerek karakterlerin okuyucu tarafından daha ayrıntılı tanınmasını sağlamış.Aslında yapılacak çokta bi yorum yok çünkü eksik yorum yapıp kitaba haksızlık yapmak istemiyorum. Özet olarak serinin diğer kitapları okuyanlar mutlaka devam etmeyi seriye.
4.5/5First there was Detective Jane Rizzoli, then you were introduced to Maura Isles.
Each had a deep dark secret, but who was the reason for the attack?In Maura's personal life, she is reunited with her ex, a philanthropist doctor, who just happens to be home for the holidays.
While Jane, the investigating Detective on the case has been feeling sick for the last few days and the reason of her sickness is something she rather not have her colleagues know about.
Tudo começa com as duas freiras que foram atacadas com uma violência brutal no solo sagrado da Capela.
E, é neste livro que a detetive, Rizzoli, e a rainha dos mortos, Maura, duas mulheres possuidoras de carapaças duras, fisicamente frias e autoritárias, invenciveis de nariz firme, tornam-se vulneráveis e expostas...
Dada a dureza das suas profissões e dos crimes ocorridos, esquecemos de que elas são mulheres.
E que venham mais livros da Tess Gerritsen!Foi perfeito ler este cartucho nesta altura, pois todo o enredo da história desenrola-se precisamente na época natalícia com a queda dos flocos de neve e o uivo do frio cortante.
RATING: 4 STARS(Review Not on Blog)I really enjoyed the third book in the series - it continues to deliver on the gritty suspense! This novel has a new case and we get to know more about the elusive Maura Isles. This series is more case driven than about the characters but never fear as the books progress we do learn more about them. I am a fan of Jane's mom.
Filled with more twists and turns than a labyrinth, The Sinner throws a curve at both Jane Rizzoli and ME Maura Isles.
Jane must deal with a huge obstacle in her life as well as her relationship with Gabriel Dean, and Maura must face her own ghosts in the form of her ex-husband.
This book serves as a pivotal point in the character development of both women, and is a must-read if you are a follower of the series.
No plot spoilers here -- you must read it yourself to see how the death of two nuns in Boston relates to a terrorist attack on a colony of lepers in India.
I liked this book a lot better than the 2nd book in the series. The plot was really engaging and I had a hard time putting my e-reader down and getting anything else done. I'm definitely continuing reading this series.(My husband did talk me into going to the movies and we watched 3 Billboards. I'm a fan of Frances McDormand!)
Güzeldi ama serinin önceki iki kitabı kadar değil.
Odličan triler, odlično razrađena radnja koja je do samog kraja nepredvidljiva. Tess genijalno razrađuje likove i piše djela koja se prosto u jednom dahu čitaju.
Ik vind dit boek beter dan de eerste twee delen.
Daarom heb ik het vier sterren gegeven.
Het liefst had ik 3,5 ster gegeven, maar dat is niet mogelijk.
Ik vind Maura een leuk personage.
Ook vond ik het mysterie interssant.
Toch vind ik dat het einde wat afgeraffeld is.
Dat was bij de eerste twee ook het geval.
Net of de schrijfster op een gegeven moment niet meer wist hoe ze verder moest.
Ook vind ik het jammer dat er een paar dingen niet opgehelderd zijn.
Verder heb ik wel genoten van dit boek en ben ik erg benieuwd naar deel vier.
Possibly the pick of the series so far. Someone has killed a nun and left another corpse with no face, hands or feet. Pathologist Isles has a series of difficult autopsies to piece the puzzle together whilst her cheating ex-husband unexpectedly shows up. Detective Rizzoli tries to piece what turns into a major investigation together but is distracted by the return of FBI beau Gabriel. Very clever story of corporate greed and corruption with nice red herrings to throw you off the scent and a good unexpected conclusion. Turning into a fave series for me
And while I read both of the first two in five days, this one took me almost six weeks because when I set it down, I didn't feel all that strong of a need to pick it back up.Between book two and this one, the setting moves from a blistering summer to an almost intolerably cold winter, which really suits moving from the point of view of the passionate Rizzoli to the cool and logical Isles.
However, I liked the first two so much that I intend to read the next book as it sounds much more interesting.
When Dr Maura Isles was called to the chapel of Our Lady of Divine Light by Detective Jane Rizzoli, she wasn’t sure what to expect.
With Jane talking to young Noni, daughter of the cook/housekeeper of Our Lady of Divine Light, she finds some surprising clues.
Though Noni is a child, she is very observant, a silent watcher in the nunnery.When another body is found, mutilated beyond recognition, little did they realize that the two murders were connected, that there was an ancient disaster that had lain hidden for decades, and suddenly, as these secrets begin to come to light, Maura finds herself in danger.
The author went to great lengths to develop her characters, but there is a limit to how much you can accomplish in one novel.
Granted, there is a payoff for this type of character development in later novels when the reader is attached to them.
This novel has a great story that is forced into the background by the information dump of the personal lives of the characters.Even the mystery itself seems to be created to develop the characters.
Îmi plac foarte mult romanele lui Tess Gerritsen, toate m-au prins.
Îmi pare rău că nu am citit seria în ordine, pentru că Rizzoli și Isles au amândouă niște povești interesante de viață.
Romanele lui Tess se citesc repede, acțiunea te prinde imediat, stilul nu e unul complicat, povestea nu e încărcată de detalii și nimic nu e prea mult.
Cred că autoarea a descoperit ingredientul succesului.
Mi-a plăcut foarte mult și Păcătoasa, mi s-a părut interesantă povestea și întreaga anchetă.
Totul a fost foarte bine construit.
Am citit romanul pe nerăsuflate și asta cred că spune totul despre el.Îl recomand!
The Bone Garden by Tess Gerritsen made me cry, this book was amazing nonetheless. I was definitely not expecting the killer. On one page the person I thought to be the killer was entirely another person on turning the page. (different person)Dr Isles reminds me of Dr Sara Linton but I love the latter more.
Hat mir vom Handlungsverlauf und der Thematik nicht ganz so gefallen, aber das ist Geschmackssache. Spannend war es trotzdem, auch, wenn das Ende vorhersehbar war. Sehr flüssig und gut lesbar, die Kapitel hatten eine gute Länge.
One thing that disappointed me with this book (and may not have an effect on other people) is the lack of Special Agent Gabriel Dean.
As I said, though, I’m sure there are many people following the series who will not be affected by such a thing.I would also like to say that those who have watched the television series are in for quite a shock when reading the books.
As is almost always the case, the books are so much better than the television series.
Talk about ickyness.The Sinner is the third book of the Rizzoli and Isles series so it would be better if you read the first two books before reading this one.
The Sinner is gruesome and I loved it.
It's a bit too much and if I wasn't hooked with the story, I would have given up with this one.There are some things in this book that'll either make you raise your eyebrows or it'll make the hair at your neck raise.You decide if you'll be against it or go along with it.
Icky stuffs like rotting bodies and missing limbs are perfectly normal in this book so toughen your stomach and your heart.
Some stuff in this book is extreme.
The more I get into this series the more I like it.
And what happened in India?
And why is Isles' ex-husband Victor in town?
This book takes you on several twists and turns and I had no clue who the murderer was until the very end.
Tess does a great job keeping you guessing and not making it obvious what has happened.
I like that this one was more about Dr. Isles.
I'm enjoying listening to the audio books so much that I don't want to leave my car and head into work.
On to book four!
I loved this book so much. It was a fast paced mystery, and I could not put it down. I loved this book because Rizzoli and Isles each had equal time in the book. I wish they were good friends like on the show, but in the books they are more like regular colleagues. I highly recommend this book to anyone who wants to read a wonderful mystery that will keep you on the edge of your seat! 5 Big Fat Stars!
4.5 stars...this suspense-filled tale finds Jane Rizzoli and Maura Isles working together to figure why two nuns in a cloistered convent were brutally beaten and killed. Added into this stress is the murder of a Jane Doe, and individual issues for each of the two main characters.Putting it all together before anyone else is killed will push them to the edge especially as their own issues may play a part. Having read these out of order does not affect the enjoyment of the novel.
