https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7091488-dead-in-the-family
(B) 74% | More than SatisfactoryNotes: Despite interesting backgrounders and an all-in play on the family theme, it's critically low on plot and development.
That is, inconsistent with the other books.There are just so many things that make dubious sense in a way too short book, which doesn't even take advantage of the subplots and just lets them rot and eventually spoil the book.Not to mention that the actual plot was such a mess.
Not a chance of any tension build-up.I am also very bothered by the logic, which, for the most part is nonexistent.The love scenes could have been a bit interesting, with Sookie's issues and stuff.
In the future, I expect more sub-plot development and a more substantial main plot, with an actual tension build up.P.S. The love scenes were quite crappy too!
·	She is faithful to her family and friends 100%.·	Gradually (and with lots of Sookie spunk) overcomes her emotional and physical scars from the last book.·	Did I mention that she said (more than once mind you) that she loves Eric?·	She doesn’t play nice with bullies, i.e. FBI Agent Lattesta.·	She shows forgiveness (think Dermot.)·	She still babbles when nervous.·	She gives Eric special smiles.·	She eats Little Debbie’s, shouldn’t all heroines?
Why I like Eric in this book:·	He is honorable, for a vamp anyway.·	He loves Sookie and tells her.·	Concerned about the safety and well being of those in his territory.
The whole book was rather boring.
There were a few interesting parts, but overall, I skimmed a lot because it didn't add to the plot or story, and I was very irritated with the lack of Eric and Sookie.
With Eric's Maker telling Sookie that she'll never keep Eric, with Bill confessing more, with Alcide confessing more, With Eric being absent a lot, and no communication with Sookie for days at at time.
The last few books have felt like major filler books, to pass the time and make money, but not really developing anything new in Sookie land.
I saw that a lot of people thought it started off slow and boring, but I never felt that way.
This novel feels like filler for sure, but I wasn't completely disappointed by the storyline.
Although, at this point it makes sense that Sookie can figure out things a little quicker now; she's got more experience and more resources to help her out.
There just wasn't that suspense and tension that I look for in Charlaine's books this time around though.Even though the main mystery was solved and many things were tied up neatly, some interesting new questions have been thrown into the mix at the end.
Anything would be an improvement over you letting your imagination continue to run amok in Bon Temps.I probably wouldn't mind so much if ANYTHING HAPPENED in this 300 page travesty of a "book" but I guess you were too busy counting your True Blood royalties to bother too much with a little detail like that.
Instead you wanted to write 20 page scenes about taking Sookie's telepathic cousin to the park or the funeral of an incredibly minor character who you have only ever mentioned in passing before.
Please stop taunting me with your stupid ass book covers and ridiculous sex scenes.Best Wishes,Logan
Don't get me wrong, I liked the book and would've given it a 3.5 had it been an option.My biggest problem is that while I know this is a clearly a transitional book, very little happens that is of consequence (if we're being set up for something big in a later book, Harris has done a poor job of building tension/momentum).
Finally, the poor introduction of new characters.
You mananged to make mention of things that happened five books ago and anyone familiar with the Sookie-verse would know it already, but you can't follow up with Arlene?
Still it was much better than the previous book.I loved to finally see Sookie and Eric in a real relationship.
I really liked him and I think he will turn a great character in the next books, as well as Dermot.
I loved how everything turned out.I think this was a great book, which gave closure to a lot of problems that had been going on but were not a very big deal.
This book was like a transition between what had been going on and what will happen next.
I love this series, although I'm not sure how I will tolerate the waiting.
Dead in the family isn't a book that you can easily judge on its own.
Dead in the Family is really just a filler book between the Fairy battle of last book and the inevitable show down with the King of Louisiana and his people to come.This makes it hard to review because, to be honest, nothing really happens.
Sookie finishes up in this book much the same as she started though she has undergone some very positive character upgrades since the beginning of the series.The writing is okay, the mystery is flat and the end is kind of a let down but this book isn't bad.
I’m glad Ms. Harris took the time to touch on Sookie‘s healing process; her progression from depression to resignation, to the realisation she wants to live, to finally being able to wrestle some happiness out of life, was powerful and necessary.
Dead in the Family brings practical Sookie back to the fore (with a little more ruthlessness thrown in).The obvious theme of this book is family: Sookie’s and Eric’s primarily, with reinforcement from Bill, Sam, Tara, and even characters who are just passing through.
I suspect there’s a lot of foreshadowing scattered throughout, and I’m starting to build some theories on how the series will wrap up.Having Eric’s maker around was not as thrilling as anticipated.
I liked how each corner of the Sookieverse gets a look in, and something about that family is developed - the humans, the fairies, the weres and the vampire families all get story time.
Speaking of Sookie herself, she is a much darker character in Dead in the Family.
At times I felt like the story was meandering, and lacked the clear focus of other Sookie books; the mystery in this one is smaller, and less pressing.
I'd give this 4.5 stars if possible, as I really really enjoyed it, but I felt the necessary meandering stole a little of the urgency away from the story.
I felt like I was waiting for the real story to begin the entire book.
To me nothing from this book added to the series story progression and I was very disappointed in the lack of relationship interaction between Eric/Sookie.
Not enough Eric/Sookie relationship (they admit they love each other, but they barely have any scenes together in the book.
I wanted the story to grab hold of me and not let go, I've been waiting so long.With all this being said, Eric still makes reading any of Sookie's books worthwhile and I will continue to read them as a faithful fan.
Once upon a time there was a handsome Viking with a great sense of humor.
Their stories were told around every campfire for years and years, and the good maidens from the city of GoodReads lived vicariously through them.
The first maidens got sick during the seventh year of kingdom’s existence, but the illness was not pervasive.
Then two years later, a grisly outbreak hit with merciless fury: people all over the city of GoodReads were falling off their feet yawning with ennui and, in some severe cases, were even falling asleep while listening to the stories.
Charlaine Harris's books are definitely a guilty pleasure of mine.
Specifically:1) how will Sookie deal with her memories of fairy torture?2) will Bill recover after silver poisoning?3) will Eric and Sookie finally define their relationship?4) did all fairies leave the human world with Niall?5) will Sookie train her young cousin Hunter to manage his telepathic abilities?All these plot threads are tied together very loosely and in fact should have been a part of the epilogue to Dead and Gone.What serves as a sort of main mystery line - some werewolf business - is very thin and has just enough "meat" for a decent short story.And second, what is with a sudden epidemic of pregnancy and return of long-lost relatives?
Dead in the Family is definitely one of the weakest books in the series.
Dead in the Family is a great book. I used to love this series, adored the characters, but it has one of the worst endings ever! Do not read the last book. Stay away from it. But this one, and the ones before and the two after are fine. But stay away from the last book!
This is the first book in the Sookie Stackhouse series that I actually didn't want to finish.
I only did out of tradition because I've been with this series for so long.
It's gone from being a 4 star addiction to a 3 star guilty pleasure...
and now it's gone down to a dismal 2 stars.
The only parts I really enjoyed were the sex scenes with Eric, like I always do, but I'm starting to think about dropping the series and sticking with True Blood for my Eric fix.It's quite sad but I'm losing grip on the story and characters.
I read this book in a day and a half...and I tried to pace myself. I wanted more Sookie and Eric, but I ALWAYS want more Sookie and Eric!! I loved it anywho, but am eagerly awaiting book eleven...
Oh, how I missed Sookie and Eric and all of the Bon Temps gang.Charlaine Harris can sure tell a good story.
Eric was different in this book.
I noticed a few things that are very different from the TV series, notably on the vampire back stories.
Bill’s back story also differs a little.
What would a Sookie book be without some sort of fairy story line?
While this is not the best book in the series, it was an enjoyable read and something to keep me in Bon Temps until the next season of True Blood.
BUT...True Blood should have little or no effect on the "Real" Bon Temps and its residents, as have been carefully detailed & developed by Harris over many years.In Dead In The Family, Sookie behaves in ways that are totally foreign to the kindhearted & plucky girl we learned to love over time.
(Who wants Eric Northman all tamed down and husbandly, anyway?) Even 2nd and 3rd tier characters sound & behave nothing like themselves at all.
Maybe this was what Harris planned all along, but I can't help but feel she has lost her way with the series, and really ought to bring it to an end.
I thought the best bits of the writing were the phone conversations.* The utter ruin of Eric's character.
And the sex scenes were cringe-worthy.* Alexei the vampire.
I think Harris didn't have enough plot for a novel, so she figured that by introducing a famous character she could fill a few pages with a history lesson.* "Oneys" and "twoeys" has to be the worst nomenclature I've ever seen in urban fantasy.* Boring lecture on vampire politics that was irrelevant to the plot and will certainly be reiterated in future books.
More filler.* Terrible action scenes where superstrong, superfast vampires are defeated in hand-to-hand combat with a cocktail waitress.
As Sookie recovers from torture suffered during the fae conflict, she learns of a bequest left her in a fairy will.
After reluctantly seeing off her houseguest, Amelia, Sookie is puzzled when her newly-discovered cousin wants to share her house, citing loneliness, but kindness overpowers scepticism, and she agrees.
But a were and a vampire tracker alert Sookie to the presence of unknown fairies in the woods out back of her house, as well as a couple of buried corpses.
Vampire Bill is still suffering silver poisoning; some less-than-welcome family members come calling on Eric; and Sookie discovers a government spy in their midst.
Sure, we learned some of Eric and Bill's background, and Sookie is taking steps to connect with her fae side as well as her cousin Hadley's telepathic son, but what else happened?
I felt like half of the book was reminding me what happened in previous books.
I know that it must be hard for Charlaine Harris to make the fans pf the books and the HBO show happy so I don't want to seem like I am complaining.
Overall, am I happy that Sookie is still with Eric?
:: 3.5 Pretty Little Stars :: Unfortunately, this is not my favorite Sookie Stackhouse novel.
I suppose it makes sense due to everything she went through in the previous book but when I pick up one of these novels I do so because they are usually an all-time favorite and because I find them lighthearted and fun.
In this book, we see the aftermath of the Fae War. As I said before, it is pretty dark and depressing and the characters aren’t as light hearted and fun as we have grown to see, know, and love.
Great Mother's day gift!
I enjoyed the book but it is probably my least favorite in the series so far.
The story, while good,just was not as exciting as previous books but it was very enjoyable to get to find out more about the history of Eric and Bill and get to know more about Claude.I went back a month later and listened to this book on audio.
When I listened to it I enjoyed the story much more.
Audibles does a great job and the narration was excellent.
I now wait patiently for book 11.
Re-reading by audiobook for 2nd time - 04/19/11 - also have hardbackGreat book and ditto for the review below with maybe the reference to the Look candy bar removed.
Love this series and can't wait until the next book comes out - May 2011!!!!!!PREVIOUS REVIEW - After reading this book, I remember why this series is one of my top 5 favorites.
I remembered I liked Look a lot but the others have become as good or better.
But then I eat a Look candy bar now and I remember why it was so good and one of my favorites.
This is the 10th book in the The Southern Vampire Mysteries (informally known as The Sookie Stackhouse Novels / Chronicles and retronymed the True Blood Series upon their reprinting)It is a series of books written by The New York Times bestselling author Charlaine Harris.
Sookie Stackhouse has finally settled into a relationship with the Viking vampire Eric, and her errant brother Jason seems to have his life in order, too.
The furor raised by the coming out of the two-natured has yet to settle; some people are just not ready to sit down to dinner with a man who turns into a dog.
Another good book in the series.
The series should certainly be read in order - it's a soap opera.
If you don't know the history, you'll miss the emotional attachments to characters & won't understand their struggles.Definitely worth reading for anyone who likes the series so far.
I did read it quickly, but it seemed to me that some motivations were very thin & existed just to make Sookie's life difficult or add complexity to the book.
Still, it was a fun read.
Off to the 11th book, Dead Reckoning: A True Blood Novel.
It seemed more like a filler than anything else and most of it seemed somewhat obscure.Of course, I loved reading about Eric, the studly Viking vampire.
And I'm glad Sookie found a way to heal him, but those parts just didn't seem to fit into the book anywhere important.
I think that, if Charlaine Harris was going to bring him into the story as an actual character, that it would have been nice to see a little more of him previously so that he was brought in a way that was so out of the blue.Overall, the novel was good, but it was not the best I've read.
Harris has created slang for her supes, "deader" being the rude term "twoeys" (the two-natured, or weres) use for "vamps" (human slang for vampires); "oneys" then are civilian humans to the weres, though the vamps call us "breathers." It's all very organic for a series of books about a character who is the nexus for a lot of contact among these parties that otherwise wouldn't take place.
And so Miss Charlaine provides.This entry in the series does several things that needed doing, snips off some very unprofitable lines of story and blooms open others, and makes a few of the unpalatable fae characters come more alive.
the chapters at first begin with a strange passage of time as if to mark sookie's healing process from the previous book.
ultimately, the book just left me with the feeling that it was time.
the stupidity of the resolution in conjunction with the flailing conflict(s) of the plot make it pretty clear that it's time to write an end for dear old sookie.
