https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153774.The_Soccer_War
Of these, I list here, with little comment, the titles of those I was most thrilled/appalled to read.- From the Streets of Harlem (Nkruma)- Lumumba- The Offensive (300 soldiers off to war; black and white in Africa; back in the hotel)- The Child-Support Bill in the Tanganyikan Parliament (Dec.
In the autumn of that same year, 1967, I left for five years in Latin America …(High Time Continued …)9I was thinking of weaving into this book a dictionary of various phrases that take on different meanings according to the degree of geographical latitude, and which serve to define things that have similar names but distinct appearances.
And yet again, another book that taught me not to whine and write about how the trip was uncomfortable, the food was bad, the mosquitoes were huge, the leeches were everywhere, etc etc. These trivialities don't deserve to be mentioned in books. But if you are staring at the barrel of a gun pointed in your direction by a jittery boy no older than 8 years old in an improvised checkpoint in the middle of night, then that's something to write about.
"Behind such a desk, man resembles an invalid in an orthaepedic brace .
Yet they forget that these very bureaucrats are themselves terrorized, and that they are terrorized by their desks.
190: "Today one hears about noise pollution, but silence pollution is worse.
Noise pollution affects the nerves; silence pollution is a matter of human lives.
No one defends the maker of a loud noise, whereas those who establish silence in their own states are protected by an apparatus of repression.
did my decision express a deep-seated incompatibility with my social setting so that, whatever happened, I would inevitable live in a state of ever greater estrangement from it?
Great book. The difference between Kapuscincki and the average person could be summed up in an anecdote he relates in this book. One evening he was drinking (heavily, as usual) in a bar in some Third World backwater when a wild-eyed man barges in and starts shouting, "They're killing anyone who goes down that road, stay away!" I'd stay put, might even crawl under the table, Kapuscinski finishes his drink and ventures down the road to see what's happening. Brave man, wonderful writer.
It was my good fortune that somebody in my book club chose this little gem to read.
Even if I did, I doubt I would have read anything by him.
Kapuściński is just a damned good writer.
If he is not guilty of romanticizing his own life (and I doubt he is), Kapuściński is a reckless sonuvabitch.
He gets himself into one dangerous situation after another, diving headfirst into wars, rebellions, slums, ghettos, and deserts.
He has his eyes close to the ground, and is brilliant at conveying what it was like to be in the midst of these historic situations (Third World upheavals, mostly).

Here's a bit in non-longhand:The whole land of the Yorubas is in flames.I was driving along a road where they say no white man can come back alive.
I was driving to see if a white man could, because I had to experience everything for myself.
I know that a man shudders in the forest when he passes close to a lion.
I got close to a lion so that I would know how it feels.
Night in the Sahara is as green as a Mazowsze meadow.
The tense muscles and streams of sweat showed the ferocity of battle, when life goes against death.
In his unmistakable style, in these mostly unconnected essays, Kapuscinski looks at the sheer weirdness of the world around him, whether he's covering the death of Patrice Lumumba or the titular violence surrounding a Honduras-El Salvador football match. While perhaps not as strong as his more concentrated studies-- Travels with Herodotus jumps to mind-- it's still classic Kapuscinski, and if you've made your way through a few of his journalistic works and travelogues, this is a logical next step.
Plus Israel-Palestine, Cyprus, and the eponymous Soccer War between Honduras and El Salvador, which kicked off because of soccer tensions and lasted one hundred hours, left 6,000 dead, and was missed by the world media who were focused on the moon landing.His best anecdotes are about roadblocks in Nigeria, a Honduran soldier who risks his life to strip boots from the dead for his barefoot family, witnessing an execution on television, being asked to start a socialist party in the Congo, trying to convince Ghanians that Poland, albeit a country full of white people, was the colonized and not the colonizer, and being held prisoner in Burundi and being saved by a Congolese who got a message to the U.N. Ben Bella's coup paranoia: (view spoiler)[He no longer trusted anyone.
None the less, it has all the best elements of Kapuscinski reporting - immediacy, non-judgemental, and thoughtfulness.
In a handful of pages, he manages to draw vivid portraits of Ben Bella, Nkrumah and Boumedienne.
One drawback is that in a handful of essays (on Nigeria, Congo), he is too distant from the centre of action.
Perhaps these chapters were best left out to avoid diluting what is otherwise a magnificent showpiece for journalism.
The English version also has a few editing errors (Ben Bella flying back from Oran to Algeria!)
This book was terrific. It's non-fiction, sort of a compilation of articles Kapuscinski wrote in the course of covering coups and revolutions in post-colonial Africa in the 60's and 70's. It would've been easy for him to get caught up in the drama of that experience, but he is really good at relating his experiences to a broader context. Also, I admire the way that he can be incredibly concise-- I've found myself in travel writing to prattle on, to over-explain every little thing. Kapuscinski gives you the goods, juicy, compelling, and just as they are.
I see the term "magic journalism" that is coined to describe Kapuscinski's writing is very appropriate.
Fascinating reportage expressed with dazzling, Didion-esque literary flair, interspersed with personal observations marked by charming emotional honesty and a dash of wit. At times the writing was so good I had to put the book down and compose myself before going on.
Whoever sits down behind a desk begins to think differently; his vision of the work and his hierarchy of values change.
I have lost many friends for reasons of desks.
I cannot say what demon it is that slumbers in a man and makes him talk differently once he's set behind a desk.
From then on I have known that whenever one of my friends starts achieving ever more showy desks, he is lost to me.
Sometimes a man will get up from behind his desk to walk down and talk with you at the other end of his office, in a couple of armchairs or at a round table.
I also like how he can keep an eye on the bigger scene, while his ear is on the locals, and their own mini-drama.This book is more ramshackle than others (like Shah of Shahs or Imperium), with several chapters titled something like The Further Adventures of My Unfinished Book.
The Soccer War of the title does refer to the blurring of soccer pitch/battlefield between Honduras and El Salvador.
Amazing.Anyways, it seems wrong to cite authenticity on the internet, but there's something about Kapuscinski that vibrates with the authentic, not only the fact that he was there, but the way he takes us there as well.
kapuscinski's writing typically takes the form of a shared personal journal, and soccer war showcases him at his most diary-oriented.
the soccer war covers an awful lot of territory, and not always with sufficient context or detail.
on the other hand, if you've never read kapuscinski - and you want to see him in top form - i'd suggest the emperor, another day of life or especially imperium, which i think is his masterpiece.
Each dictator makes a calculated effort to maintain the ideal state of silence, even though somebody is continually trying to violate it!
Silence has its laws and its demands.
Silence demands that concentration camps be built in uninhabited areas.
Silence demands an enormous police apparatus with an army of informers.
Silence demands that its enemies disappear suddenly and without a trace.
Silence prefers that no voice -- of complaint or protest or indignation -- disturb its calm.
And where such a voice is heard, silence strikes with all its might to restore the status quo ante -- the state of silence."
Kapuscinski was one of the greatest reporters around and his books are considered masterpieces in the use of the Polish language.
"The Soccer War" was my introduction to this amazing man and, though episodic, the book has its moments of sheer horror.
There's that moment when, whilst at a political meeting, you realise that all those around you, baying for blood, only see the colour of your skin - not your nationality.
Kapuscinski was the fly in the ointment; a newsman from a non-colonial state who found himself watching the collapse of empires in Africa whilst at the same time confronting the politically correct taskmasters back home in Poland.
This is the third Kapuściński book I've read...the others being  The Emperor  and  Shah of Shahs . The two previous ones were about specific people (Haile Selassie and Mohammad Reza Pahlavi respectively) while this one covers wars and revolutions in a variety of places on four continents. The bulk of the book is spent in Africa with quite a bit about the Congo and Patrice Lumumba, but also a lot about Algeria, Ghana, Nigeria, etc. Then it's off to Central America for the "Soccer War" between El
This is the third Kapuściński book I've read...the others being 
. The two previous ones were about specific people (Haile Selassie and Mohammad Reza Pahlavi respectively) while this one covers wars and revolutions in a variety of places on four continents.
Then it's off to Central America for the "Soccer War" between El Salvador and Honduras.
That 100 hour war might have been triggered because of events surrounding a soccer game, but it wasn't at all about soccer (as Kapuściński explains in detail.)Towards the end of the book Kapuściński tells about his travels in Cyprus and Syria and the wars he saw there too.Kapuściński had to have experienced more in this life than 100 people put together have.
I look forward to reading the rest of his books eventually.
مفاجأة سعيدة هذا الكتابكنت أظنه شيئاً وجاء شيئاً آخر رائعاًالكتاب مترجم إلى الإنجليزية من البولندية ومع ذلك فقد كان الأسلوب ممتعاً جداً وفيه رواية لأحداث وتنقلات بطريقة أدبية غير ذات تكلف.
وفي أحيان كثيرة كنت أظن أني لا أفهم ما يريد الكاتب قوله، ولكن في الفقرة التالية يزول اللبس، وهذا مقصود ولكن بسلاسة وجمال.
وهو ظريف جداً وحتى عندما روى موقفه مع بعض الثوار الأفارقة وكيف صبوا عليه البنزين ليحرقوهالكتاب هو كتاب رحلة وصحافة سياسية وجزء من سيرة ذاتية.
It teaches me about places and histories I didn't know enough (or really anything) about before, like the titular soccer war in Central America, and various conflicts in Africa, but it's not all wedged firmly enough in my mind yet so I'm giving it another go.
I also kind of really related to something that crept up in a few of Kapuscinski's essays, in which he encounters people who in turn know nothing or next to nothing about his own country.
Sometimes, maybe, I experience a smaller version of all that: the place I'm from is known for greenery and alcohol, and somehow everyone seems to have forgotten about all the bombs.
Ho fatto una certa fatica ad arrivare in fondo, non tanto per mancanza di interesse per gli argomenti trattati, ma forse proprio per il contrario: anche se forse di primo acchito potrebbe apparire una lettura "tranquilla", a ben guardare vengono raccontati tantissimi fatti, peraltro di portata enorme, e alla fine di ogni capitoletto/reportage, per quanto breve potesse essere, non riuscivo a non fare una sosta anche di svariati giorni.
I would've quit the first time my life was threatened
Then he poured benzene on me, because here they burn people in benzene: it guarantees complete incineration.”This was Kapuscinski recalling the time when he was stopped at a second successive roadblock in the Congo.
As well as surviving various skirmishes, he writes about the overthrowing and killing of Patrice Lumumba in the Congo as well as the lesser known case of Ahmed Ben Bella, in Algeria, who was overthrown and placed under long term house arrest.
He writes well about the Soccer War/Football War, between Honduras and El Salvador in 1969.
he had a knack for foolhardy exploits in the name of journalism; one particularly vivid anecdote depitcs him in a car bursting through road blocks set up by bandits in nigeria during a political uprising, convinced he was going to die.
I saw that two of them were winding up to throw bottles of gasoline at the car and for a second I thought, so, this is the end, this is the end, but there was no turning back.
Hounded by terror, I drove another kilometre and then I stopped to make sure the car wasn’t on fire.
Mankind kicks endless own goalsAs somebody who once lived in Honduras before the infamous soccer war of 1969, I long had Kapuscinski's book on my "must read" list.
In every case, he manages to portray some participants as humane and decent, or as simple people caught up in events beyond their control.
He never writes off groups of people as `wild' or `barbarous', but manages to `read' them even as he faces almost certain death.
Readers of the book, however, will come away with a better understanding of human nature and its universal similarity on every continent, among every race and religion.
Kapuscinski es bueno, siempre; pero en este libro hay algunas crónicas más flojas que lo dejaron en un libro intermedio.Siempre me ha gustado desde la posición que escribe Kapuscinski y me parece que entendió muy bien Africa y así me la explica (yo que nunca he ido) pero no me parecieron tan atindas sus crónicas de América Latina, como que la "entendió" menos o quizás, simplemente, seamos más quisquillosos con lo que nos es cercano.
Muy buenas crónicas en la primera parte y me gustaron especialmente sus "anotaciones personales" para los libros que nunca llegó a escribir pues muestran un poco su proceso de escrita y dan alguna luz sobre "por qué carajos alguien escoge ir a meterse en esos mier....
In my quest to read all of Kapuscinski's books, this is the latest I've completed.
It was first published in the 1980s and in it are short narratives of his time traveling various parts of the world as a journalist.
The book is a mix of diary writing and reportage of the things he saw.
Whether he was in Ghana, in the Congo, or in experiencing the soccer war between El Salvador and Honduras, one gets a sense that Kapuscinski is not only fearless, adventurous and sometimes roguish journalist but that he shows a keen ability to interpret absurd, horrifying and scary accounts beyond their immediacy, and without cynicism, into narratives that speak of a strong humanistic voice of the heart.
Some really interesting stories here, written in an immersive style of journalism.
Tales from places as diverse as the DRC, Honduras and Somalia, places often forgotten by western journalism or told in a way that overlooks the human stories of every day life.
Kapuscinski doesn’t.
My only criticism would be that some of the reports (each is its own chapter) left me wanting a broader picture of the country and the editing of the book could have offered a more complete narrative in that sense, pairing more reporting in the one country together.
That said, happy with my second Kapuscinski book and will read another!
This book should have not been called The Soccer War, but anything else than this. I was looking for a book that would describe the events that triggered the war between these 2 Central American countries (El Salvador and Honduras) but it was not until page 157 that he tarts mentioning about this and only for a few pages. I am sure he has good books and content but this was just like a diary...nothing more than that.Again, if I was looking for chronicles then probably this is a good book to read but the title is totally misleading.
