https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2973596-the-forbidden-zone
Mary Borden was an exceptional woman.
She used her own funds to set up a hospital in France during the First World War and worked as a nurse for the four years.The Forbidden Zone, which was first published in 1929, is a collection of impressionistic pieces of fiction which vividly convey what it must have been like to work in the hospitals.
She writes extremely well and you can see, hear and smell the wounded and the orderlies.
It ranks with the best writing about the war that I've read.I can't help feeling that if she'd been a man, then her work might not have been neglected but I am glad that Hesperus Press have brought it back into print.
Mary Borden was an American woman (and heiress) from Chicago, married to a Briton and living in England, who volunteered to serve as a nurse in French hospitals on the Western Front.This collection of "narratives" is a mixed bag.
Many 21st century readers will find these narratives unimpressive.Other narratives - especially those in the "Somme" section of the book - are among the finest WWI writing I've read anywhere.
I have been looking to find crisp, articulate, committed writing from medical personnel on the Western Front in WWI, and I've found it in "narratives" like "Moonlight" and "In the Operating Room" here in Borden's "Forbidden Zone."
This was the first book I'd read that provided a perspective on WW1 from someone other than soldiers and pilots. It was touching and beautifully written. Mary Borden was an extraordinary woman and a gifted writer.
Amazingly beautiful writing about her impressions in a most terrible time of war.
It is the horriffing truth about the war that everone should read
An uncensored, beautifully written account of the First World War. Absolutely amazing.
Absolute must-read for anyone interested in WW1. Borden is an exceptional writer.
Brilliant.
In korte verhalen vertelt ze onverbloemd over de verschrikkingen, verminkingen, slapeloze nachten en hulpeloze soldaten.Mijn oordeel: Borden ondervond de grootste moeilijkheden om haar boek gepubliceerd te krijgen, en als je het gelezen hebt, kan je inschatten waarom.
De taal zorgt er mee voor dat je meegezogen wordt naar het kleine veldhospitaal, en de hel daar laat je echt niet los.Het boek is vergelijkbaar met 'Heldenangst' (cfr hier voor mijn bespreking), maar voor mij net niet van hetzelfde kaliber, een net ietsje minder straffe stomp in mijn maag.
The Forbidden Zone by Mary Borden (the 1930 edition) is an impressionistic memoir of the wounded and their care givers of the First World War. The book comprises three parts.
The first two parts are extended prose poems, sketches and story fragments centring on the nursing and surgical staff of a field hospital in France, or of the wounded soldiers.
The bits and pieces vary in length and are somewhat uneven in effectiveness.
The third part of the book consists of five poems.
The most effective poem is "The Song of The Mud" which is a meditation on the endless despoiled ground of the battlefields "...
A Woman of Two Wars impressed me but this was exceptional. Some of the shortest, most potent stories emphasising the pity and pointlessness of war. Her range is exceptional from the two blunt Tommies mistakenly brought to her hospital through the deathbed conversion of a serial criminal to the ethereal evocation of the other worldliness of HoE 32, comparing it to some hideous parody of a flooded shoreline.
Usually you only find war accounts from soldiers, but this was an amazing change of view from a nurse's perspective. Mary Borden tells stories about soldiers and war involving a battle with death instead of with the enemies. For a book about war, this is great. However, I would not suggest reading this book just for fun.
Short observations and poems of a nurse working just behind the front lines in WWI. Not a coherent story, but deeply moving all the same. There is no glory in war, there never has been en never will be.
Really good memoir. Shocking imagery at times - obviously appropriate given the subject matter. Reads wonderfully - almost feels like poetry at times.Well worth a read if you want to learn more about different groups of people's experiences of the war.
A terrifying picture. A supposed sweet, tender and lovely woman taking care of the ill people becomes a journalist of the Evil fighting with the world.A nurse portraying World War.
Certainly a muddled account, not what I'd call engaging though.
The new edition of Mary Borden's World War I sketches and poems omits the all of the (5) poems that make up the third section of her book as originally published. Read the original edition.
An interesting insight and great memories shared. Thought I would enjoy this book more than I did but still an enjoyable read.
