https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12283261-between-the-lines
This was super fluffy, cute, and easy to read. It felt like I was reading a fairy tale as a child! It doesn't feel like young adult, but it's a charming, refreshing read! Here's my booktalk: https://youtu.be/D59k9BvRTVg
a) Just because a woman/mermaid dislikes men doesn't make her a feminist.
A feminist is a person who believes in equality for both men and women.
This is pure naked truth.)b) Just because you make a lack of courage your hero's tragic flaw doesn't mean you can make him perfect in every other way.
Especially when the hero can't even remember aforementioned parent.d) Why. On.
Please see my dear friend Nafiza's review, where she much more eloquently states why this book isn't good.)
And then when we do get the requisite turning over a new leaf, will love you better and yay from Delilah, it is only for the express purpose of getting her friend to drive her somewhere – oh it’s not written as such but really, I read Between the Lines and yes, pun is intended.Another thing that pretty much sealed the deal where the book is concerned is Delilah’s comment about the mermaids.
I do not understand what not liking men or thinking that you do not need a man to complete you as a person has to do with being a feminist.
That was a fun, quick and adorable read for youngsters as if straight from a Disney movie and I won’t be surprised if it does make it to the big screen.
It’s imaginative and entertaining and the premise of the novel is indeed a curious thought- that characters of the books we read could be alive and could be living a life of their own, could jump from page to page when the reader isn’t reading the story written in the book.
She said it’s the best book she has read just yet with dreamy eyes and satisfied sighs.
I'm not sure if the fact that I've read a few books by Jodi Picoult in the past affected my enjoyment of this novel, and even though I knew not to expect her usual story-type since it's written with her daughter, this was a lot different than what I had envisioned.
This case is a bit unique in that we have Delilah, we have Oliver, but also, we have Oliver's story - the actual fairy tale in his book.
Oliver has been stuck in his fairy tale since it was written, with a "book" family of his own that makes his chapters vibrate with life.
The authors try to add themes and "deep meaning" to this book, but it's so ridiculously obvious what they're trying to do, it made me laugh.
Also, seeing how this is written (partially) by someone in high school, you'd think that she would write it more realistically.
I mean, unless she was going for satire, which I don't think she was.
High school for Delilah was so Mean Girls, I couldn't take her seriously.
I want a famous author mom so I could write books and be published and put that on my college app!)
I would have been OBSESSED with this when I was a tween!! Adorbs. Around the Year in 52 Books Challenge Notes:- 7. A book about books
The idea of it was good- what book-loving girl hasn't wanted a fictional character?
The entire reason why Delilah is drawn to the book in the first place is because she and Oliver both don't have fathers.
The writer of the fairy tale, Jessamyn, has a son named Edgar identical to Oliver.
Edgar is placed into the story and Oliver is expected to act as Jessamyn's new son.WHAT?SERIOUSLY?DOES NO ONE FIND THIS MORALLY WRONG?Despite Edgar not being the best son for Jessamyn, that does not change the fact that EDGAR IS JESSAMYN'S SON.
Why is trapping Edgar in a fairy tale, away from his loving mother, a happy ending?Yes- Edgar's happy.
As someone who has always loved reading, I have sometimes wondered what it would be like if the characters in a book were real, if they lived in our world.
I loved the fact that the actual fairy tale Delilah reads in the book is a character in its own right.
I also loved that I was able to read the fairy tale and then find out from Oliver what happens after that scene when the book is closed.
I mean, it’s not like I didn’t have wonderful friends, but I just loved the library (and still do).
Written by Jodi Picoult and her daughter Samantha van Leer, and it's evident from the very first line that the only writing Jodi did in this was adding her name to the cover.
I would normally say that a lot of this comes down to the fact that Samantha is clearly very young and not an eperienced writer, but I don't think that's particularly fair as there have been some amazing books written by writers as young as Samantha.At the risk of being scathing, I'm doubtful that Jodi would have put her name to this book if it had been written by anyone other than her daughter.
While the concept was cute and the illustrations fun, I can't help but wonder if this would have made it onto the shelves had Jodi's name not been attached.
Don't get me wrong, for a first book written by a teen, it's good, and I am sure Jodi is proud of her daughter, but she has a long way to go before reaching her mom's ability.
I'm glad I didn't invest any money in it.I think perhaps the middle school population would like this.
I would not recommend it to my high school students.
The whole idea of a teen being obsessed with a fairy tale prince is just too preposterous.
Well that's what happened to fifteen year old Delilah, a miserable teenager who wants nothing more but for her fictional crush, Prince Oliver to come to life.
One day, while she was reading, Prince Oliver spoke to Delilah.
Delilah is trying to find a way to get Prince Oliver out of the book.
The way this book was formatted was just amazing, I love how it switched from the actual story, to Prince Oliver's POV, and to Delilah's POV.
The writing style is different in the story, Prince Oliver's POV and Delilah's POV and I really like that.
Have you ever wondered what happens when you close a book? Do the characters stay frozen?Do they play chess on the beach?Do they rehearse their lines and try on outfits?Do they gossip about characters and munch on snacks?Or do they long to escape their 'happily ever after'?A mesmerising tale of a young girl and a fictional prince who enlist the help of the other to escape their worlds and to discover how their own stories end.
This book kinda remind me of my favorite fantasy movie back in my teenage years,The Never Ending Story,where Sebastian was the reader.In here,the reader was Delilah,a 15 year old girl who loves to read books,and there's this one particular fairy tale book that she reads over and over,because she felt she's got a great connection to this book,especially to Prince Oliver,the main character on this book she's reading.And to Delilah's surprise,she heard the prince talk to her..and this is where the fun begins.This book is entertaining and interesting,especially to the youngsters,and to those who love fairy tales like me..I also love the illustrations that's been added to the book,they're beautiful.And the ending was hilarious!Many thanks to my 12 year old daughter,HANNAH,who enthusiastically recommended this to me,and who kept saying "this is the best book,ever!" while she was reading this.I just want my daughter to know how proud I am of her,for being not just the TOP STUDENT in her class section,this first quarter,but also the NO.1 STUDENT in the whole grade 7 of their school!
And what happens when one of those characters doesn't want to live in a fairy tale, but wants to be able to feel and think and really live?
I also loved the ridiculously charming way that she felt about a character in a book.
Even if it's a character from a story come to life.Oliver was just to adorable for words and I loved the sweet and tender and even amusing way that these two felt about one another.
It made me fantasize what it would be like to fall in love and achieve happily ever after with a character written in one of my favorite stories.
There are also little silhouettes scattered through out the pages to identify important characters, scenes and plot.
I love how the colours and typeface are different when it changes from Oliver’s viewpoint to Delilah’s viewpoint.I love how Oliver wants to be something more than just an actor in a book.
He wants to make a difference.
I love Delilah’s character too.
She is a little bit of a loner and doesn’t seems to fit in anywhere, except in her world of books.
I love the idea of a characters coming to life and wanting to live in reality.
It’s easy to devour this book in one sitting.
It kills me not to finish a book, no matter how many issues I may have with it.
I love any take on fairytales.
When I saw that this was about fairytales, I was excited to read this book.
It seemed like a third grader choose the different fonts that were used.Then there is Oliver, our hero, our protagonist, our love-interest.
For a hero, he felt very flat.
Everyone in this novel felt very flat and underwhelming to me.
Though, a younger audience might not mind that he lacks depth and only has one flaw.The story had potential.
Especially since I love YA books.
heard this is a book with the main character falling in love witH THE READER AND WTF I NEED TO READ THIS
The full-paged colored illustrations, the pictures placed beautifully around the pages, and different fonts and colors made this book so pretty.
Normally you see books with amazing covers, but this was just all-around gorgeous!I read this in about three hours.
Then it jumps perspectives to Oliver, who is in the fairytale as an actor.
He was always being funny and made the book a light, enjoyable read.
(The illustrations of him are really pretty, too!) He was my favorite both in and out of the fairytale world.Overall, I loved it.
It was a great fresh read for YA fantasy.
I thought between the lines was a cute romance between reader and character
Mesmo assim foi bom ter lido algo desta autora tão diferente do que costuma escrever.(...)Como disse acima, achei a premissa mesmo engraçada mas a execução deixou um pouco a desejar e por vezes o livro revelou-se mesmo parvinho, tanto pela historia como pelas acções das personagens.
Eu sei que isto é ficção mas é suposto eu acreditar que a Delilah apaixona-se por uma personagem de um livro e já quer ficar com ele para sempre sem o nunca ter visto na realidade?
But if Jamie Fraser or Will Herondale suddenly spoke to me from their respective books and declared their undying love for me, too bloody right I'd do all the contrived things Delilah did.If you've ever read about a fictional character and immediately said:Then this, my friend, is for you.A delightful (if corny) little story.
And if those fairy tales happen to include a hot prince like Oliver, then added bonus, right?This was pure fluff - and believe me, I needed that.Something that frustrated me slightly is that there was a certain disparity between the two worlds within the story.
This was a really really REALLY cute book. Enjoyed it immensely. I only wish it would actually happen. To me. I want an Oliver. Specifically one named William Herondale or Daemon Black.
I love takes on fairytales and fairytales in general (so much so that my doctoral dissertation is on the use of fairytales in therapy) so I was pretty happy reading this book.
I will read the second book of the series for sure as I have a 2018 goal of reading all of Jodi’s novels.
However, I do not think some will enjoy this one because they may be use to her novels because a bit more intense and well, not fantasy for one.
My quick and simple overall: I liked it.
It was rather entertaining and quick with enjoyable characters.
It was immersive and I definitely found myself invested in their romance.
The moral we can get from this is try, try, try again, because the lovers try at least six different ways to get Oliver out of the book, and nothing seems to work until it does.
I may have liked it more than I normally would've, because of all the 'Inkheart' feels it was giving me.
Yeah, this book definitely could have done with Capricorn and Dustfinger.
Excuse me, I'll just be reading 'Inkheart' for the seventeenth time.
1,5 stars “REAL FAIRY TALES are not for the fainthearted. Children get eaten by witches and chased by wolves; women fall into comas and are tortured by evil relatives. Somehow all that pain and suffering is worthwhile, though, when it leads to the ending: happily ever after. Suddenly it no longer matters if you got a B- on your midterm in French or you’re the only girl in the school who doesn’t have a date for the spring formal. Happily ever after trumps everything.But what if ever after could c
Story is simple; one day Delilah finds out she the Prince Charming of the little fairy tale she was obsessed with reading is real.
Still, everyone in the book seems to be perfectly happy with the fact they are part of the story; that they are enslaved into doing and saying the same things over and over, like in a play that gets performed for eternity.
Instead, it felt like I was reading a child's fairy tale but with teenagers I didnt even give a shit about.
The book started off strong, was intriguing enough to make me want to finish it, but it's ending was disappointing and felt contrived.

Delilah is reading a fairy tale book when one day the character inside her book reaches out to her for help.
The novel follows them and also there are chapters of the actual fairy tale in the book (which were my favorite chapters)I will say, as much as I loved the plot, I DO think that this concept could have been done better by someone else.
As well, I realize fairy tales ALWAYS have insta love and this book is meant to be read like a fairy tale, but the insta love was just not well done in my opinion in this one.Oliver is a really great character.
When Delilah picks up the book, she falls in love with the story...and with Oliver.
Inkheart is about book characters who come to life out of a book (called Inkheart, just like the title of the actual book) and a girl has to change the ending to save her family and herself.
Again, the same concept) and a girl has to change the ending to save Oliver.(Okay, it's actually not Delilah, but I'm not gonna spoil that) They're both completely different stories, but those similarities veer dangerously close to copycat material.
It has Delilah and Oliver has the two main characters.
Delilah is in the real world and she is reading the book that Oliver is a main character in.
Plus, I absolutely love Jodi Picoult books.
I loved everything about Delilah and Oliver.
Now I probably would've freaked out if a character in a book/tv show/movie would just start talking to me..
I'd probably also think I was going crazy.
Who knows - because it hasn't happened to me yet.I can't wait to read the next book, or any other book of Jodi Picoult's.
Oh my goodness, ALL OF THE STARS FOR THIS BOOK!! Honestly, this is one of my new all-time favorite books, I wouldn't change anything about it. It was so perfect!! <3I'm not going to write a long review, but... just read it. Please. It's seriously perfect, and I am now going to be telling everybody that I know to just buy it and read it, because it will truly touch your life. So so soo good. :')I'm so excited to start the sequel/companion novel, Off The Page! I will be starting it... probably right now.
