https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/163358.Baby_Farm_Animals
Williams' illustrations are very sweet, and he conveys a surprising amount of personality for each animal with only a few words.Golden Books are so sturdy, too!
My edition, the 12th, was printed before I was born and I'm sure I got it second hand (probably from a friend or sibling of my mother's with kids' older than myself).
There are a few smudges of dirt and tiny tears, but really it is in great shape for how many grubby toddler hands it has passed through.
My niece was excited when she was the cover and said she wanted to read it.
I wasn't wild about the text of this book. It is inconsistent. It begins by telling us baby cats are kittens. Then it talks about rabbits, but doesn't name baby rabbits or donkeys. Then it is back to naming the babies (puppies, etc.). Eh.The illustrations are by Garth Williams, who I believe is the first illustrator I ever took note of.
Sometimes you are introduced to a nice fact about the animal and get to it then all of a sudden you find yourself getting a bit of a storyline that doesn't connect with each other.
I love the work of Garth Williams and now that I can actually see as well as have a reason to remember the name it seems like he was almost everywhere with books.
Every once in a while he does throw in something weird for you to look like the albino bunny in this book, which brought me to wondering about that instead of a regular looking wild bunny or even a pet bunny with floppy ears.
Abbi thought this one was ok, but she said it wasn't a REAL story. Apparently the plot was lacking.
Baby Rabbit lives in a hutch, yet sniffs noses with kittens and puppies, “because they are all friends.” I think something more could have been said about bunnies besides smelling other animals, which I’m not certain they would actually do, like maybe them running or hopping or eating.
No information was given at all about the guinea pigs, just “have you ever seen a guinea pig’s tail?” What about their tail, they don’t have one, it’s so small you can’t see it?
I think the book would have been better had it been baby animals along with the adult.
I didn’t know this would be a book telling us what baby animals are called.The illustration of the lamb on the first page is creepy.The flower& the butterfly are pretty on the next page.I wish they had chosen a brown rabbit instead of the white ones with red eyes.
“I know that trick,” he says.’ The donkey looks a lil weird too.
& I wish the book had wrapped things up in the end, instead of just ending off on another baby animal.
instead of asking if we've seen guinea pig tails, and that mean-spirited follow the carrot trick with the donkey.
This classic book has been embraced by generations of children and young readers alike.
Baby Farm Animals is a great book for introducing the names and words associated with animals for young children.
The realistic illustrations bring wonderment and imagination for young readers as they turn each page to find a new animal.
Garth Williams's Baby Farm Animals is an excellent choice for reading at home to very young children.
As an instructional piece, Baby Farm Animals would be a great book to recommend to a young animal enthusiast in the classroom.
My love of reading started when i was young, and it gives me immense pleasure to provide books to Spread the Word Nevada, an organization that passes them on to children in the community.
Sometimes I'll find a book I remember reading when I was young and will read it again before passing it on.I don't rate these books using my normal scale, instead I give most of them three stars.
This isn't a Criticism of the book, simply my way of rating them as good for children.
Rate: 3Review: the book baby animals is a book that is suitable for young children.
This book teaches the children how baby animals survive in the wild by themselves.
The illustrations in this book help get the children focused in on the book because they are just great illustrations that represent the animals.
Animals eat grass.2.
Where farm animals live.3.
There are many different animals.
How would you use this in the classroom:The teacher would explain to the children what different animals there are in the wild how they survive, and where they live.
I love the classic illustrations in this book (we have the board book version), I remember them from when I was a kid.
Lu at 10 months likes the pictures of the animals, although she isn't particularly engaged in listening to me read about them.It does make me ponder the fascination we, as a culture, have with farm animals and babies.
It's an idea of farms that is from the 1940s at best -- a modern working farm isn't going to be anything like this.
But there are still so many farm-themed baby toys and decorations!
I guess agri-business themed stuff wouldn't be quite so endearing.
This is a very mindnumbing read, even for a child's book.
However, my kid loves it (at 14 months).
He'll dig through a pile of books to grab it and open it to the page with the donkey and carrot and point to the donkey over and over and over.
He loves the picture and probably what the words 'donkey' and 'carrot' sound like.
The illustrations are nice, and I've found the book is much more palatable to me if I make up a song for each page and sing that to my son instead of the text that came with the book (sorry, Mr. Williams).
Synopsis: "Generations of children have loved the realistic yet whimsical lambs, ponies, and kittens in the Little Golden Books edition of Baby Farm Animals. This Golden classic, celebrating springtime on the farm, is now a board book . . . a perfect first book for baby."My Review: Another great classic! I love the illustrations. It will be great to teach Munchkin about farm animals, especially since we live in a more urban area and he won't have access to the things I did while growing up.
Pretty much exactly as advertised: each page features a baby animal, or in some instances, several baby animals (e.g. a litter of kittens), that one might find on a farm (okay, the guinea pigs may be a bit of a stretch).
No narrative, just images and a few simple statements about each animal in very basic prose.
It's a book designed for very young readers, written and illustrated by the inimitable Garth Williams--just the image on th ecover was enough to make it clear he was the artist, never mind the title page listing him as author.
Williams is one of the greats.
This book is about many different animals. It tells what the baby of that animal is called, for example a baby cow is called a calf. It tells about what the animals do, what they eat and where they live. This is a great way for children to learn about animals. There any many activities that could be done after this book. You could have the children make a scene and place what animals would be seen there. This book would be great in the classroom when learning about animals.
This book can be used to teach names and sounds of farm animals. This book has great illustrations. This book is easy for children to read and understand. Great way to introduce young children to farm animals.1. Baby sheep are called a lamb.2.Baby cats are call kittens.3. Baby ducks are call ducklings.I would place this book in my science area and in dramatic play area.
A lovely little book filled with delightful illustrations of baby farm animals explaining their names and activities. I found it to be an enjoyable read for a child and a quick educational lesson as well. Adapted from a larger version of the book, I still enjoyed it and felt it was of quality, not rushed and short-changed as some adaptations are. Recommended for young children.
Introduces the baby animals on the farm and gives little facts about each one.Cataloged a new edition of this today for elementary library and realized this was a childhood staple at Grandma and Grandpa's house. I'd forgotten about it till I saw the cover and flipped through the pages. I remember loving the kittens and puppy pages as a child and always thought the little goats looked so silly.
I actaully don't remember reading this one, but I know I have at least once in a fog of putting the boys to bed. Joey likes it pretty well. He likes the idea of baby animals and the fact that it is his very own Little Golden book. But it has no plot (not that a two-year-old requires a plot) and cannot compare to the magic of Sailor Dog or the appeal of Curious George.
Delightful and sweet nursery book with adorable illustrationsDo I love this Little Golden Book to this extent due to some shallow-buried toddler-memory of my own? Maybe, but it sure is sweet!
Williams's Baby Farm Animals is an delightful choice. Children seem drawn to the pastoral illustrations in the board book. I appreciate that it allows the reader to teach young children about the habits of animals and their survival
Adorable illustrations.Learn the names and habits of baby animals. Includes a lamb, kittens, a baby donkey, ducklings, chicks, piglets, puppies, goat kids, cygnets (swans if you didnt know), goslings, a foal, a baby shetland pony, and a calf.
When Sara reads books to Hazel, she likes to just say her stream of consciousness instead of the words on the pages. No need with this book -- the author seems to have dictated his stream of consciousness already.
Always a fan of Little Golden Books.
Great little kid bookMy two year old liked it for a bedtime story. He loved the pictures of the animals. I remember Golden books from when I was little.
Perhaps too many words per page for the attention span of a 23 monther, but I am sure we'll be reading this many times. It's a great way to explain baby animals and the sounds some of them make.
Cute book that introduces the babies of various farm animals. The narrative is short and the illustrations have an old fashioned charm. We enjoyed reading this book together.
A cute children's story.
Very interesting I never knew what a baby swan was called until this book
This book translated well to the Kindle.
Adorable little illustrations. It would be nice if most baby farm animals still lived in bucolic surroundings like this, and actually got to do the things the book talks about them liking to do.
