https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7134202-private
Only good thing about this book that it was free. Listened while walking, typical James Patterson, last book I bought and read was more than ten years ago, that was the only book I paid. Short, short chapters, choppy. Murder, sex, NFL score fixing.
I've never read anything like this before.This book was totally plot driven and moved at lightning speed.
He and his ace team of investigators, plus a forensic scientist, a psychiatrist, and a computer hacker have their hands full with the murder of Jack's best friend's wife (and Jack's former lover), an NFL gambling scandal, and the as yet unsolved serial killing of several local schoolgirls.As if those three high profile cases weren't enough, Jack gets unintentionally entangled with The Mob, his twin brother comes around causing all kinds of trouble, and his girlfriend is looking for a commitment.If you like gore-less crime mysteries, I highly recommend this one.
Not great literature but good James Patterson and, let's not forget, Maxine Paetro.
Jack, an Afghanistan Marine veteran, has been asked by his father, in prison for life for extortion and murder, to visit him.
His father wants him to resurrect his once lucrative and world renowned PI firm and tells him that he will be getting a package tomorrow containing dirt on all previous clients and access to 15 million dollars.
So Jack decides to restart Private.The remainder of the book is a rollercoaster thrill ride thru the many exciting cases that the firm is handling.
Like I said, good James Patterson.
Very good start and then it fizzles out.At this point, it is clear that the Patterson collaborations are 100% written by the second author.
When I started reading this book, I was feeling like I had made a great decision.The set up for the story was very good, with an interesting main character, Jack Morgan, who has a complex past, an unusual private investigation agency, and some engaging characters.
When we find out about Jack's evil twin we can't help by read full speed ahead.Sadly, then the problems start.
DNF at 30%.I’ve never read a James Patterson book and Audible was giving this one away.Beware freebies.This was like some dumb melodrama you watch for 5 minutes while channel surfing. War veteran inherits a posh PI firm that caters to the very rich and powerful.If this is Beverly Hills Private Investigations then I'd rather follow Axel Foley back to Detroit.Yawn.
Apparently the start of a 'male-led' Women's Murder Club series. While some of the story outlines were interesting... too many to follow, making it hard to fucus on the central storyline.
Private is a book written by James Patterson (and Maxine Paetro) who is a well known author of crime thriller novels.
Hey James, word to clearly unwise, before you agree to put your name on the front of book, written by some random chick, that you clearly did not read yourself (if you had, I doubt your name would be on the front) maybe you should get your head checked first.
I have only one piece of advice for James or Maxine or whoever the hell wrote this damn book, focus on one main plot idea until you’re a good enough writer to focus on more than one.
Pretty good. I enjoyed the characters and the plots. I think I will still read the Michael Bennett and Alex Cross series before continuing this series, but I will continue it. Love the character of Jack and his colleagues. My quick and simple overall: only takes a few hours to read this book and is interesting enough to keep you reading in one sitting.
When reading reviews, particularly on Amazon, I’ve noticed a lot of complaints about how the Patterson books are written.
I enjoy The Women’s Murder Club series and the Alex Cross series (though I must admit, I’m behind on both series.) So far I’ve enjoyed the books written with (or some might say by) Maxine Paetro.I found Private to be a good story.
Private is a quick read.
No. If you want a quick read, this is the book for you.
If you care more about how the book is written than the end result, then find another book and another author.
This was my first crime book that I have read and absolutely loved it. I have loved watching crime and thought I would give reading crime a go. From the first chapter I was hooked. Private are a great team and get the job done. In this book they were working three major cases.
It was a good book. I enjoyed the story and liked the characters. It's not one of my favorite books, but it was worth reading.
I'd decided within a few chapters that I had fifteen things I didn't like about the book and yet it wasn't difficult to keep reading.Another strength of the novel is that it holds nothing back: Patterson And Paetro deliver whatever would be the most exciting development next rather than bowing to either faux realism or saving stuff for subsequent books.
I can imagine a lot of readers really enjoying Patterson and Paetro's book for its readability and pacing.
Meh. Too long, too many story lines, not enough emotion. And who the heck puts an epilogue in then continues the story with more chapters? WTF Patterson?
Jack Morgan is the boss man of this highly sophisticated crime outfit that employs top notch experts and a crime lab that is better equipped than the police departments.
The narrator does a decent job for a story that is a mismash of different stereotypes.
Jack, the main character, is an Afghanistan war veteran that suffers from untreated PTSD.
Emilio Cruz served with Jack in the marines.
Emilio is kind of the department bad-ass.
Colleen is Jack's personal assistant and current lover.
While the mystery parts of story are pretty good, the rest of it is kind of hokey.
I don't care who wrote it, I couldn't put it down. OK, sometimes I had to sleep and work. :) And I had no problem with all the stories going on in the book, because all af them were interesting and all of them were solved as well. And I don't need weeks to read a book, so I always knew who was who and what was happening. I think I try another Private one.
Another great book by James Patterson, "Private".Former CIA agent Jack Morgan runs Private, a renowned investigation company with branches around the globe.
Instead, Jack pushes back and devotes all of Private's resources to tracking down her killer.Only one place to turn: PrivateBut Jack doesn't have to play by the rules.
As he closes in on the killer and chooses between revenge and justice, Morgan has to navigate a workplace love affair that threatens to blow the roof off his plans.
With a plot that moves at death-defying speeds, Private is James Patterson sleekest, most exciting thriller ever.
À medida que vou lendo mais livros de James Patterson, mais fico rendida à sua obra.
Este é o segundo policial que leio e confesso ter gostado mais da personagem Jack do que propriamente do Alex Cross de outra série.Jack é um ex-fuzileiro que se dedica actualmente a investigar casos, estando ao comando da empresa Private - Agência Internacional de Investigação, herdada do pai, um antigo criminoso.
Contrariamente ao pai, que tinha uma relação directa com o crime organizado e com a máfia, Jack quer que a Private seja uma empresa exemplar e muda radicalmente o conceito e os clientes.
Private was offered for free from Audible this week so I decided to give it a go. Procedural thrillers are not my cup of tea and this one proved no different.
'Private' is the first novel of a mystery series starring Jack Morgan, ex-Marine helicopter pilot, who now is the owner of a large private detective company with offices everywhere.
However, Jack feels an almost unbreakable loyalty to childhood friends and wartime buddies which can lead him to ignore whatever rules or laws he must to help them.The various cases the detective team begin working on in this novel are familiar to every living person on earth who regularly watches broadcast television, whatever the country (since almost all nations show old American one-hour drama TV series from the 1970's and 1980's).
This book was a thriller for sure. It was interesting, exciting, and best of all, it never was boring! Although this is made for more mature people, I would recommend this book to all people. Most anyone would love this book, it includes mysteries, murders, drama, and lots of action. READ THIS!!!!!
Loved, simply loved this book! Loved the action and the fast pace of the office as the team worked three cases. Each character is brilliant in their own way and I look forward to meeting up with them as I continue this series. Stunning voice too.... Mr. Peter Herman delivered the audio perfectly. He definitely could purr into my ear all day....
Resurrected from his worthless father's defunct company with $15,000,000 in stolen money dad gave Jack shortly before dying in prison.Finally, I think the authors would have done better to concentrate on one story.
At any rate, once someone started looking hard at them, their secrecy fell apart like wet cardboard.This could have been so much more if it were honed to read like the BTK Strangler mentioned in this novel, or the Green River killer in Green River Running Red. Perhaps Mr. Patterson needs to go back to providing more quality in his books instead of publishing one a week, like his TV show.
I liked the parelell stories and the cast of characters but felt that some of it was just...
I figure it's "SteamKleana" or something like that) story that all people who play violent video games want to commit terrible murders.
typical for an author to say that video games make people violent that it was really disappointing to read that opinion AGAIN.But then there were some clever story lines I haven't seen, like the football storyline.
Nothing seemed like a stretch at the end of the book.I liked the story and I liked the characters but it could have been better.
Another quick, easy read from Patterson, although, I found this book a bit dull. The main character (Jack), felt like someone I would like to know, but never quite got there. It just seemed like very little character developement, which was a shame because he seemed to have so much "more to his story." The entire book felt a bit rushed to me, which is true of so many of Patterson's more recent works. I wish he would s-l-o-w down and tell us an indepth, well developed story, like he use to.
This is the second read for me and I enjoyed it just as much as the first.As to be expected, it’s well written with likeable characters that I enjoyed spending time with.The multiple storylines added to my interest, except for the Afghanistan flashbacks and dreams, which really did nothing for the story and seemed to be resolved a little too quicklyOverall, easy to read, fast paced and enjoyable.
the book was very exciting, I was intrigued, and couldn't put it down the book, until i was hungry. then i would go and get food, and continue reading the book. it had the perfect balance of action, suspense, and a nice finishing.
I should have kept a list of character's first and last names because they switched back and forth so many times I sometimes got lost for a while.
Instead of remembering 10 characters, I had to try and remember 20.The book could have been separated into two or three separate books with it's multiple storylines going on.
The storylines were easy to follow but each contained a group of characters.
At times the story would intensify and build and he would end the chapter and switch to another storyline.
I enjoyed the book, but for relatively short book, it has a lot of storylines, a home invasion murder, a serial killer of school girls, an NFL cheating scandal, the mob, a death threat--and that got in the way of the pacing. The serial killer storyline overwhelmed the home invasion murder storyline and vice versa at times and NFL thread only received lip service. An enjoyable book but with pacing issues.
The transitions were seamless and I didn't forget what was going on and was able to pick right back up with each case as it came up in the story.With that said, the three cases that Private is working on are: (1) the death of Jack's best friend's wife, Shelby; (2) the Schoolgirls killings; and (3) an NFL gambling fix.
Being a huge football fan, I was really intrigued by the NFL storyline case in this book.Case #1: Jack's best friend, Andy, calls Jack to tell him that he has found his wife, Shelby, dead in their home.
I read almost all of his work from his graphic novels (see our archives), young adult (Daniel X), and just about all his regular material.
I got excited when I saw that he had this new series coming out: Private.I really enjoyed this novel, I am not going to make any bones about it; I just really had a good time with it.
You can also follow us on Twitter, Book Blogs, Visual Book Shelf, Book Marketing Network, Linkedin, Pump Up Your Book Promotion and the Gelati’s Scoop Facebook Fan Page; also look for our posts on Amazon, Borders, Barnes and Nobles, Target, Books A Million, Smashwords and the Bucks County Library System.
