https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77699.Dinner_at_the_Homesick_Restaurant
Her settings are all in heartland USA (Baltimore, mostly) and so, reading her books feels like you are watching afternoon drama series of American families, regardless of how dysfunctional or typical they are.I was blown over by the eccentric characters in her The Accidental Tourist but I admired how she narrated the flight of the Tull family in this book, Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant.
Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant has different POVs and the story is centered on a single family.
Breathing Lessons opens with a couple who has two kids and at least judging from its opening, has a different taste compared to the first two books.Anne Tyler (born 1941) has so far written 17 novels.
Asked if he'll want to visit, he replies, "No." Pearl determines it best not to tell the children right away that their father has left them.She planned how she would do it; she would gather them around her on the sofa, in the lamplight, some evening after supper.
Pearl has high hopes that Ezra will become an educator, but he spends most of his time at Scarlatti's Restaurant, where Jenny learns her brother's ultimate desire is to manage the place, providing old-fashioned meals for customers who miss the comforts of home.
"It's only a matter of time.""Sometimes you're more like Ezra's child, not mine.""Cody Tull!
This was only my 2nd Anne Tyler novel but I can already tell she is going to become one of my favorite authors.
Her characters are SOOO real, and her observations of everyday life are spot on.
It's the kind of story where nothing happens but you can't stop reading.
She brings everything to life and puts you right in the center of the story.
This one took a couple chapters to get into, but once I got situated I was hooked.
Can't wait to read more from her!
This was my second read by Anne Tyler, and I instantly knew that I loved it as much as the first one.
However, it wasn't until the very last pages until I realized what it is exactly that I love so much about her stories: They speak the truth!
From the two books I've read by her so far (this one and "A Spool of Blue Thread"), I can gather that Anne Tyler writes about family life and the dynamics between family members.
She doesn't leave out anything - she tells you the truth as it is, and that combined with her wonderful prose makes for beautiful stories.
I liked this book and really felt like I knew these characters.,, loved one of the sons, Ezra, he had my heart.
5 +++ Stars.I can't believe this is the first book that I've read by Anne Tyler.
This book is about Mom Pearl and her three children- Cody, Ezra and Jenny.
Anne Tyler has portrayed each one, with their strengths and weaknesses, and ultimately made me care about all of them, including Cody, who was so easy to hate.This book is about family and the memories we keep about our childhood.
Why does one choose to remember only the bad, and the other the good?Many important moments take place at the Homesick Restaurant, Ezra's restaurant.
This book has catapulted to the top of my best reads ever.
Last month I introduced myself to Anne Tyler when I FINALLY picked up my dusty copy of her '89 Pulitzer winner, Breathing Lessons.
One of the ladies not only brought it straight to my doorstep, but also handed me Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant and said it was her "favorite Anne Tyler."Me: Oh, but I'm right in the middle of another book.
CAN'T YOU SEE I'M READING????"One day later, the book is finished, and my family is starving, but it's actually symbolic.
I was ready to eat the book.I don't know how Anne Tyler does it.
After their father deserts the family they’re left to be raised by their mother Pearl Tull, a rigid perfectionist with a definite mean streak.
I thought it hilarious that they couldn’t make it through a meal together without one of them storming off in a huff.
It’s a raw sort of story, not a lot of kissy / huggy going on, but it’s real.
Honestly, she thought, wasn’t there some statute of limitations here?
When was he going to absolve her?
He was middle-aged.
He had no business holding her responsible anymore.”Memorable: “you make your own luck” on aging "I'm falling into disrepair”
From the first page I was struck by the clarity and humanity of the writing, and the depth of reality that oozed from the characters as I kept turning the pages.I won't rehash plot points here, but contrary to what some of these reviews say, there actually is a plot.
As I was reading the book I vacillated between hating and loving certain characters, mainly Pearl's oldest son Cody, but as the book continued I realized that there is always more to the story, and that none of the characters are really "bad" people so to speak.
Once I completed the novel I realized I loved the characters.
I think any aspiring writer (myself included) should read this book by Anne Tyler.
Anne Tyler adds very distinct voices and personalities to her characters, I could guess how one of them would feel in reaction to something.
From interviews, Anne Tyler said she loves Ezra most and loves him to bits, and I can feel it in how she writes his voice.
All in all, I wouldn't think this is a book I love lots or one I'd reread from start to finish again, but I give it 4 stars because I would flip through it again to learn from some of its excellent writing - AMAZING dialogue and narrative voice, I can't stress this enough!!!
My overall most memorable fiction read of the year.
Its chapters are like perfectly crafted short stories focusing on different members of the Tull family.
After Beck Tull leaves with little warning, Pearl must raise Cody, Ezra and Jenny on her own and struggle to keep her anger in check.
Cody is a vicious prankster who always has to get the better of good-natured Ezra; Jenny longs for love but keeps making bad choices.
Despite their flaws, I adored these characters and yearned for them to sit down, even just the once, to an uninterrupted family dinner of comfort food.
This is my second encounter with Anne Tyler's books and this time is as good as the first one.Pearl Tull raises her three kids after her husband just pack up and go.
How they approached life is evident in the end when all the characters in this nuclear family comes together to take leave of the very old Pearl Tull at her funeral service.
How did it happen?The story left me emotionally apathetic, untouched, yet, sad.
The readers is suppose to understand the characters, and it happens quite rightly in this story.
I love books about families.
Since I finished DINNER AT THE HOMESICK RESTAURANT yesterday, I have started at least five very different reviews of the novel.
But as important as the themes of this work are, the book's greatness -- and it IS great literature -- comes from the various carefully drawn and evolving characters that Tyler keeps us caring about -- even when their behavior is despicable.
Would I have been interested in the characters in DINNER AT THE HOMESICK RESTAURANT if I hadn't wondered whether they were withdrawals from my memory bank?
Tyler has created beautiful stained-glass windows, artfully pieced-together incidents that reveal complex characters; and if we pay attention, even on a cloudy day, "We'll Understand It All By and By"(286).

This was a feel-good book - and in that respect it truly did it's job. I was coming off a book that was very dark and I needed to read something that offered lighter fare. Revolving around a family, the story shows how different perspectives can be from person to person, even in the same family unit. Interesting and likable characters (although you will have your favorites and those you root for) along with a storyline but isn't too predictable this is a great book for summer read, or even a book club due to its character study.

This is Anne Tyler's best work. There are no lovable characters but there is no need for someone to love. The story is enough. It's a fantastic labyrinth of bitterness. Eventually, you end up loving to hate all of them.
(So if they ever did finish a dinner, would they rise and say goodbye forever after?)Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant is a small-scale domestic novel about the lives and fortunes of the Tull family--primarily Pearl Tull and her three children, Cody, Ezra, and Jenny--and it achieves the peculiar feat of being melancholy yet too warmhearted to be bleak.
The book is an exercise in a kind of existential hopefulness: maybe, just maybe, through weariness or maturity or perspective, this family will sort itself out.Pearl is an "old maid" at thirty when she meets and marries the charming, ingratiating Beck Tull, a salesman who wins her heart just by avidly trying for it long after most of her romantic opportunities had passed her by: "Oh, what was the trouble, exactly?
Usually I really enjoy Anne Tyler's books but I was not able to really engage with this one. It is a story of a dysfunctional family viewed in separate chapters by different members of the family. The book starts well with the mother on her death bed recalling her life and I had great hopes for it at that point. However as we progress through all the very unlikable members of her family I lost sympathy and then interest. At the end I cannot even remember the names of all the main characters. Not a winner for me.
Despite this the children all succeed in life, the daughter becomes a Pediatrician, the eldest son an Efficiency Expert and the young son owns a Restaurant.
It is the restaurant that becomes the title of the book: The Homesick Restaurant, and there is a running story line of all the family dinners that Ezra the youngest son tries to organize over the years at his restaurant and how those dinners never get finished.
The daughter who is the pediatrician has her own issues and Ezra the youngest is the most likable character.
That being said, I struggled with a lot of the book and never really cared much about the characters.
We meet Pearl Tull at age 82 and dying as she reminisces about her life.
Her husband Beck Tull, a traveling salesman only home on weekends, leaves the family when the three children are nine, elven and fourteen years of age.
Pearl then goes to work Sweeney Grocery but Tull's absence is never discussed; it is almost like he is away on an extended sales trip.
There was a lot of dysfunction in this family.
Pearl married Beck Tull later in her life (or at least what was considered later in that time period, the 1920s)… she had been 30 years old and Beck was 24.
It didn't seem that she was in any way rationalizing what had happened… she simply seemed self-absorbed, prideful and mired in her fantasies of what she wanted her life to be to engage with her children or the world around her.Pearl's refusal to believe that her husband had deserted her left her incapable of acknowledging or discussing the family's new reality with her children.
Tyler makes interpersonal relationships within the immediate family and the dynamics brought about because of a broken home life reveal the action of the story in a more nuanced way with every new point of view.
It's not that there's a lot of action in the book, or that what action there is is especially fascinating, but she makes the unfolding of sometimes boring daily life over two to three generations an interesting epic in itself.I'd read an Anne Tyler novel years ago ("Breathing Lessons"), which I think I'd appreciate more now that I'm nearly 20 years older than I was at the time.
“You think we're a family,' Cody said, turning back. 'You think we're some jolly, situation-comedy family when we're in particles, torn apart, torn all over the place, and our mother was a witch.” Books about dysfunctional families are my favourite. This is my first book by Tyler, but it definitely won't be my last. The plot is quite simple, as Tyler's focus is the day to day lives across the years of this American family. She superbly intertwines the perspectives of four distinct characters, a
Tyler's depiction of family dynamics really rang true (some parts were painfully too close to home for me personally..) and in particular I was impressed with how well she demonstrated that despite the fact that the three Tull children grew up in the same household, they all remembered their childhood and their mother very differently.
My only disappointment of the novel is the fact that Jenny's character seemed far less developed than her brothers'.
The dynamics between the brothers was certainly interesting, with Cody's bitterness, envy and arrogance, and Erza's increasingly pitiful passivity, but I also found Jenny's situation very interesting and wanted to learn more about her.
She takes a series of events that are seemingly nothing--seriously, nothing of "consequence" really happens in this book--but you're captivated from the first chapter.As I was reading I found myself feeling sympathy for which ever perspective was being used--she writes from Pearl, Cody, Ezra, and Jenny at different points throughout the book.
And it seems hard to imagine, having read any of the children's chapters, but you actually feel that Pearl (and her husband) as well are characters were rich and deep back-stories that are so complex.At the end of the book I found myself deeply saddened, to the point of near tears (if I hadn't been at dinner with my family in Fazoli's I'd probably have let the tears spill).
It would take a lot not to love the story of a mother, her three difficult children, a home that is left fatherless not because of death but a sudden caprice.
And no it is not just the children, if there is something like a difficult mother it is Pearl Tull.
And there is something heart-wrenching about this woman who goes on to live a long life and die with her pride intact, surrounded by her children.
But that surely does not do much to make the story any way less appealing to me.
There used to be a restaurant in Baltimore called Hausner's and I always imagined it might be the model for the Homesick.
I don't think it was, though.I just read this book again, and I find it remarkable that I remembered almost none of it.
It's much sadder than I remembered.
And, most surprising, I didn't remember the incidents of child abuse.
Of all the things to forget!
Anne Tyler is noted for her "angel's eye view" of her characters, loving and forgiving even the meanest among them.
I wonder how much abuse she saw in her own life and whether any of the interviewers ever asked her about it.
But in the end, the history of the novel is what justifies the story of the Tulls: the tales of all those other ordinary folks have given both writers and readers the conviction that everyday existence is something to be observed and learned from."(Smiley, p.
Tyler's novel explores the inner lives of Pearl and the children from an entirely practical perspective, never pointing them toward happiness or transcendence through love or family connection, and never elevating their status as a way of justifying the reader's attention to them."(Smiley, p.
This quotation characterizes the entire novel: "You think we're a family," Cody said, turning back.
"You think we're some jolly, situation-comedy family when we're in particles, torn apart, torn all over the place, and our mother was a witch...
You finish the novel with some insights: There are no perfect human beings.
People want to be loved, to be connected to others, but they also want to be free--and God, what a mess they sometimes get themselves in because of these contradictory desires.And just like Ezra's abortive family dinners, old age and death overtake most of us while we're still figuring things out.The two most poignant moments are 1) the moment of pure happiness Pearl recollects from her diary, and 2) the last line of the book.
Anne Tyler says that Eudora Welty has been the most influential on her writing and the admiration is mutual, as shown by Welty's comment about this novel: "If I could have written the last sentence in Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant I'd have been happy for the rest of my life" (Welty in Salwak, p.
11)Tolstoy famously wrote that "Happy families are all alike; every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way." That is certainly true of the Tull family that we meet in Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant.
Anything that makes you happy or sad, isn't it all based on minutes going by?
Isn't sadness wishing time back again?
Isn't it just that time for once is stopped that makes you wistful?
