https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/552349.Hit_or_Myth
Skeeve thought it would be easy to live a couple of days without his mentor and for some short time it looked like he was right.
Now would be a very good time to use the most famous quote of the series - something Skeeve said in this installment, "When things are at their blackest, I say to myself, 'Cheer up, things could be worse.' And sure enough, they get worse." Sure enough as soon as the bride arrived it turned out the poor guy had much worse problem on his hands: the Mob came and showed its interest in him.
It was good to get back to find that Skeeve, as always, has a lot of fun giving and receiving mess not only in the kingdom but also in Deva Bazzar, especially as Skeeve and Deva have a common bond for trouble and friends.
At first I decided to put the series down just to strengthen my love to the Myth Adventures, but with the help of my encouraging GR friend, Evgeny, and the secret door, I found at the end of the story, I decided to have a one more fun and crazy ride with Skeeve and his gang.
It was stuffed full of all the adventure, magic, humor, and quirky characters that we have come to expect from reading the previous books in the series.
Skeeve is soon convinced by King Rodrick to use his disguise spell to fill in for him while he enjoys a much needed vacation.
Unfortunately King Rodrick forgot to tell Skeeve about the impending royal wedding to a power hungry neighboring Queen, or the fact that he plans his vacation to be permanent!
I'm eager to read the next book in the series after the tiny cliffhanger ending to this one.
Another hilarious ride. I loved the story. It was great to see Skeeve's fan club growing and his newly acquired confidence to act as an independent leader. The intrigues with both the murderous queen and the mafia were highly entertaining. Reading on.
Reading the books out of order it was really nice to get a lot of the background information in this volume. A lot ofthe future settings and arrangements happen here. I won't spoil but I loved seeing how the characters got together and events played out.
UPDATE: As of Mar 2018, I have decided not to continue re-reading this series. The first book in the series was only a solid 3 for me, and with nearly 20 books in the series, I am not interested in continuing on with a series I only liked OK. I originally read thru book 6 or so.
The first crisis is that the organized criminals who ran the Army Skeeve defeated in the second book now come looking to find out what happened and either recruit or “neutralize” the magician responsible.
It may be that there are too many plot threads working at once, or that the lack of Aahz takes away from some of the funner moments early in the book, or just that the book is too much a transition from the first part of the series to the later, and not enough of a book on its own.
The king wants a days vacation, and calls on Skeeve’s disguise spell, to replace him for a day (which turns out to be a lot longer than a day.) Skeeve is left to figure out how to get the king home for his marriage to a queen he doesn’t want, protect the kingdom (and retired mob warriors from “Myth Conceptions”) from the mob, as well as get himself fired so he can get a vacation himself.Notes for the reader: In this story, this author takes the emotions of his characters seriously.
I didn’t like book four as much as I have other books in this series so far.
I got to thinking about and, pondering the concept of the plot, figgered it out.
Hit Or Myth marks the first time Skeeve is forced to deal with a situation without Aahz.
It occurred to me the interplay between Aahz and Skeeve is what I like most about this series.
I just don’t like Skeeve on his own as much as with Aahz, let alone the various killer cast and characters.
Still, Hit Or Myth is nothing to shake a stick at.
This was essentially two stories stuck together, which made the pacing of it quite strange and really did a disservice to both the 'homicidal fiancee" half (who unfortunately never got to have a personality) and the mob shenanigans half, which is definitely not all it could be. The fact that I breeze through these so quickly lets me overlook a lot of the writing flaws, but let me say again that this series is not great with the female characters.
This is the fourth book in the series, and is just as much fun now as it was when I first read it years ago. Good, clean fun – you could give this book to a kid and enjoy it just as much as an adult. The narrator of the series – Noah Michael Levine - does a cast of voices reliably well (only Tananda grates) and brings another level to the already great book. I recommend the entire series.
I read this after hearing Robert Asprin's name mentioned again and again on the Geek's Guide to the Galaxy podcast and coming across it randomly at a used bookstore in Kingston, Ontario.
In terms of plot, the king takes a vacation and leaves his court magician in charge of things for a day.
The court magician, Skeeve, has the power of transformation, so he actually looks like the king for a day.
Then the king doesn't return from his vacation.
And then Skeeve learns why the king doesn't want to come back and feels betrayed that he was lied to.
This book is more like two separate but connected stories. This story was pretty light on Aahz, my favorite character, but it actually allowed Skeeve to shine and demonstrate how much he has grown as a character. In this story Skeeve has to deal with Queen Hemlock who was a very interesting character that didn't get nearly enough "screen time", I hope she reappears in future stories. The second plot involves the mob which was very entertaining but both of the main conflicts were resolved a little too quickly.
So, even partway through this book I recalled exactly why I love the "Myth Adventures" series and how Skeeve grows from a naive apprentice into a real force to be reckoned with. Also, the puns.I always love reading a chapter and thinking "wow." I had that moment with this book. For some odd reason I swear I haven't read this one before. I'm just glad I got my hands on a copy where whole sections of the book are not omitted/repeated.
Hit or Myth was still fun, but not quite as dizzyingly delightful as the first three. The double dénouement was less tight than previous outings. Puns seem to be making a more frequent visit. The treatment of Massha is problematic. While she got more character depth, there’s still an excessive focus on her body type. But I'm still committed to continuing to read every one of these that I own.
In this book, the characters really start to shine. Skeeve is still naive, but you can see how his friends, particularly Aahz, are really starting to rub off on him. This book is full of twists that keep the fun going. The banter and cleverness make this book, and the rest of the series, such easy reading. By the end, you can really feel Skeeve and Aahz growing closer... together and to trouble!
It's really great how much character growth there is through this series.
This was funny, particularly the first half. Skeeve introduces The Mob to the Devil world.
Quick read. Cute. It would make more sense if i read the othe books.
Another great read in the myth series
Жалею, что эта серия книг стояла с детства на полке, а я только сейчас с ней познакомился.
Mobsters, Vacations, and a wedding, Oh my! Skeeve gets roped into doing a favor for the king, finds out the mob is looking for their army, and gets an apprentice.
I frankly love all these books. An easy enjoyable read. Humorous fantasy, how nice.
A good example of playing both sides against the middle. It's hard to find a good deal.
womp womp
My favorite of the series so far. Exciting from start to finish.
The way this need you just know there's got to be more trouble coming
Add into that formula that Aahz doesn't even feature in one of them, and we have a rather disappointing addition to the series.See, a lot of what makes the Myth Adventures books so much fun is the banter.
I get that Asprin wanted to develop Skeeve further and have him come into his own instead of always being Aahz's apprentice, but I wish he could have done it in a different way.The series is still going strong, my nostalgia kicking in to keep my interest high, and it doesn't hurt that they read quickly.
Hit or Myth is the first low point I've hit, but even then, "low" is a relative term, since I still had fun reading the book.
The series is narrated in first person by Skeeve, who happens to be a young male in his late teens and like many teen boys has some shallow perceptions of the opposite sex.
Yes, there are fat jokes at Maasha's expense, and the way Tanda is described is remniscient of say Marilyn Monroe or more precisely a quest fantasy version of Ginger from Gilligan's Island, but those are Skeeve's opinions of them physically.
When he reports on Tanda and Maasha's actions, Skeeve paints a very different picture.
With Aahz forced back to his home dimension, the king convinces Skeeve to replace him so he can take a brief vacation, but neglects to tell him that he is about to be married to a murderous, power-hungry queen.
The Mob on Deva plot is actually cleverly handled, however, and at the end of the book it feels as though Skeeve and the gang have just begun a new chapter in their lives, which is a great way to end an addictive series.
