https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64218.Eric
(It's odd to think of an author's 9th book in a series as "early" work) In my opinion his later stuff was much, much stronger.
It was, however, my first time reading this particular version, the illustrated version.And honestly, I think that's the large part of my lukewarm reaction.
While Kirby's illustrations were on the cover of the first Pratchett book I ever picked up (Sourcerey, back around 1990) I don't feel much nostalgia for them.
And I did find Kirby's illustrations (again, not to be confused with *Kidby's*) to be distracting.
The last book featuring Rincewind wasn't too much to my liking but this much shorter novel was perfect from start to finish.It's about the titular Eric, who is a teenager who dabbles in the art of summoning demons like his grandfather.
The fact that Rincewind snapping his fingers is actually (sort of) making Eric's wishes come true, isn't helping.Thus, the two go on a journey from murdering civilisations in jungles to wars of times long past and even to Hell.
Eric is an oddity.
Although it's the ninth Discworld novel to be published, it feels curiously scrappy and unfinished, like a fragment of juvenilia.
It's set up as a parody of Faust; it feels like there's a lot more that could have been done with the novel based on this premise.
In fact, it feels like there is a lot more set up to happen from this premise, but it never comes about.
Eric is one of the most barely sketched in of all of the Discworld characters, for all that he is the person whose actions get the book rolling.
Technically I've read Eric out of sequence, but as anyone who has been following my reread of the greatest sequence of fantasy novels ever written will know, I've been "reading" the audiobooks whilst "running" around in circles and at 126 pages Eric is certainly not suited to such a thing.
My rating will certainly reflect an extra star for being able to enjoy such loveliness.Eric is a tiny little book, a fun idea from a writer who was clearly having a great time with the success his little fantasy series was experiencing.
Sir Terry Pratchett’s 1990 Discworld offering (and 9th in the series) sees a return of Rincewind in this most Douglas Adamsesque of his books.A subtle parody of Goethe’s Faust, we find a young Ankh-Morpork demonologist, Eric, who has drawn a magic circle to summon a demon and instead brings Rincewind to his home.
Discworld fans and readers may recall that Pratchett left Rincewind in the dungeon dimensions at the end of his 1988 novel Sourcery.I have to concede that the Rincewind novels have not been my favorites, but this may well be the one I’ve liked the best.
Compared to the City Watch, Moist von Lipwig and especially Granny Weatherwax and the witches, Rincewind is almost second tier Discworld.
This is my second read and my reaction is pretty much the same as the first time.Rincewind is funny.Or rather, the situations he always gets into showcases the Discworld in awesomely epic ways and we always get vast adventures.
Seeing the bureaucratic hell that is...
hell?
:)It's a tongue-in-cheek romp and while it's quite hilarious and imaginative as hell, I'm caught in that unenviable place of having to judge it among all of Pratchett's other works rather than against the backdrop of all humor or fantasy books.It's not my favorite Discworld novel.
Even so, I loved having Rincewind back again.
“It’s Death, Archchancellor,” said the Bursar patiently. “Eh?” “It’s Death, sir. You know.” “Tell him we don’t want any,” said the old wizard, waving his stick.And that’s the reason you should read Pratchett.....
Part of the Pratchett reread with the SpecFic Buddy Reads group.
For me this is the second time I've read this, and the first time as a purely text book.
Back in the day I had a copy of this edition: Eric with the Josh Kirby illustrations.Rincewind, last seen in dire peril (as always) in Sourcery, is summoned from Hell by a teenage demonologist.
What follows is a typical Rincewind travelogue from ridiculous situation to ridiculous situation all with deeply witty and sarcastic commentary, both around what Rincewind and Eric are doing and the situation in Hell.
Tenemos el esperado regreso de Rincewind que esta vez acompañara a Eric un demonologo adolescente que tiene tres deseos, los deseos que todo hombre, ejem, ejem,  todo adolescente varón quiere, iremos viendo como el obtendrá sus deseos pero nada de lo que quería.
Creo que lo que me hace continuar la saga es el personaje de Rincewind el hechicero mas patético del disco, la manera como enfrenta todas las situaciones que se le presentan es de lo mas cómico
Entre los talentos de Rincewind destacaba su gran habilidad para salir corriendo, que con el paso de los años había elevado al estatus de verdadera ciencia pura.
If "Eric" were a food, it'd be a hot dog. It feels like Pratchett took random bits of humor that weren't good enough to make it in other books, and mushed them all together. Eric is the lips and assholes of Pratchett's storytelling.Eric seems to exist soley to resolve the cliffhanger ending of Sourcery, and it does so with a moderately amusing Deus Ex Machina. The rest of the book is more like a Family Guy episode than a coherent novel.
Rincewind, eveyone's favorite wizard is back in Pratchett's take on Faust. Eric a very young demonologIist summons a demon. What he gets is Rincewind. The Luggage is not far behind. Shorter than most Discworld books, but every bit as funny.
Rincewind goes to Hell9 February 2013 Eric seems to be that Discworld book that was written after Guards Guards and before Moving Pictures that nobody ever mentions. In fact having a glance over the comments on Goodreads it seems that it is not all that liked, and when I asked my friend who loves anything that Terry Pratchett writes, he simply said that it was okay, it has its moments, but not one of his best. Mind you we both agreed that the part where they travel to Discworld's version of the
Once the wishes have all been fulfilled (as it turns out the whole idea of Helen being the most beautiful woman in the world was something of a legend, though we must remember that over a period of ten years people do tend to age), and Eric has discovered that the fulfilment of these wishes are not what he particularly wanted (sure, you can live forever, but you will begin your immortality at the beginning of the world, and continue on from there).
Kniha, ktorá hľadá odpovede na zásadné otázky ľudstva ako:Čo bolo na počiatku? A prečo tam nebola majonéza? Kto sme? Kam smerujeme? A predovšetkým, odkiaľ sa sakra vzala tá nikam nepasujúca násadka od tyčového mixéra?Z Mrakoplašovských príbehov je tento u mňa najlepší, najinakší a najkratší.
“There's a door.""Where does it go?""It stays where it is, I think.”  Not nearly as funny or eventful following Guards! Guards!, but short and thoroughly entertaining. Rincewind may not be everyone's favourite character, but I like the shenanigans he gets involved with.This is only my ninth Terry Pratchett book and I already feel like this is one of the most important series in my life. You know when you look back on a series wishing you could read it all over again for the first time? I feel o
Not nearly as funny or eventful following Guards!
Guards!, but short and thoroughly entertaining.
Rincewind may not be everyone's favourite character, but I like the shenanigans he gets involved with.This is only my ninth Terry Pratchett book and I already feel like this is one of the most important series in my life.
You know when you look back on a series wishing you could read it all over again for the first time?
I feel oddly aware and privileged to be able to read 30 more of these for the first time.
Normally this feeling doesn't hit me until after everything's over.
I was expecting this book to be a lot worse than it actually turned out to be (i.e. pretty awesome) based on a few people's lukewarm reactions. I really, REALLY enjoyed the portrayal of the Demon King as a pedantic (if slighly burned out) corporate CEO. The social commentary was spot-on, and as for the humour, it was its usual fantastic self. 4 stars.
Be careful what you wish for...or you may find yourself tripping through time with an incompetent wizard and a ferocious suitcase.You might even wind up in Haitch-E-Double-Hockey-Sticks - the one only Pratchett could invent.Good fun, but not up to the usual Discworld standards.
People who repair quantums I suppose.”Eric, book nine in Terry Pratchett’s Discworld series, is a riot.
It stars a pimply, highly intelligent and pompous teenager who is determined to summon a demon so that he might demand riches, glory, and the most beautiful woman alive.
What he manages to summon instead is the lovable but luckless Rincewind, well-known by all Pratchett enthusiasts.
Eric refuses to accept that Rincewind, although he does look like a slightly pathetic human wizard, isn’t in fact a demon who can conjure greatness for the young lad.
This book contains all one comes to expect from Pratchett.
Like a lot of people I first read Pratchett when I was a teenager and have stuck with him well into adulthood.
So, going through a dry spell in reading where everything I picked up seemed to, well, suck, I was immediately drawn to a small paperback that’d fallen off my shelf - “Eric”, a book I haven’t read since I was 12 (I’m now 28).
Coming to a beloved book after 16 years is great as you know you’ll like it and you’ve all but forgotten everything in the story.Eric is the Disc’s first demonologist hacker who summons a demon to grant him three wishes.
Pratchett’s really clever like that and his books can be read for all ages.
Leerlo en inglés fue una mala idea.
No puedo hacer una valoración a fondo porque, no nos vamos a engañar, a veces me perdía.Sin duda es un título Pratchett 100%, hilarante, preciso, mordaz y con alusiones constantes a cultura clásica y popular: Fausto, La Divina Comedia, La Odisea, religiones precolombinas...
y burocracia contemporánea, entre otras.Adjunto unas citas:«Then there was silence, the special kind that you get after a really unpleasant noise».«Even wizards thought demonologists were odd; they tended to be surreptitious, pale men who got up to complicated things in darkened rooms and had damp, weak handshakes».
Whenever something important enough to deserve capital letters was angry in the vicinity of Rincewind, it was usually angry with him».Como ves, unas risas :D
3.5 starsThis had a lot of really great scenes, and of course I loved seeing Rincewind and Luggage again. But I didn’t enjoy it as much as many of the other books in the series up to now. I may rate this higher upon a reread, however. I believe I was a bit distracted while reading this as it took me much longer to read than it should have given the short length.
I wanted something light and fun and Eric was just that. It was a fun adventure and I enjoyed reading it.
I didn’t do it previously because it was called a direct parody to Faust which I hadn’t read before and I felt like if I don’t know the original, I don’t get as many laughs out of it.Having now read both Eric and Faust, I gotta say I would have understood the humor perfectly without knowing the “source material”.Faust is not the only thing that he is making fun of in the novel.
Where do I even begin?Even though it’s probably the shortest Discworld novel (197 pages in large font), it took me weeks to read.
Some of his books are good -- The Light Fantastic and Interesting Times -- but as for the wizard himself, I would happily drown him.
Just page after page of Rincewind and Eric – who really seems to be more of an unthinking automaton than Hex himself – tramping from one LOL RANDUM adventure to another.That sense of randomness is probably my biggest complaint about the book.
It feels less like a coherent novel than a collection of scrapped ideas and plot points that didn't fit anywhere else.
Rincewind tiene un humor que sale impregnando su cobardía y que hace que me parta de risa en los momentos más inesperados.En este libro volvemos a tener a nuestro "mago" metido en aventuras sin él buscarlas, como siempre, y esta vez acompañado de un joven demonólogo obsesionado con las mujeres y lleno de acné y un loro con un vocabulario muy reducido.
Nos encontraremos además con un infierno burocratizado, como un ministerio o una empresa, y es aquí donde Pratchett nos mete su crítica mientras nos reímos.También vamos a encontrarnos viajando al pasado y descubriendo que los mitos no son cómo los cuentan o asistiendo a la creación del Mundodisco con un personaje muy peculiar y un sándwich xD.Como siempre, un gusto leer a Pratchett.
I picked this up at a used bookstore on Bainbridge Island while on vacation for two reasons -- I really like Sir Terry Pratchett, and this particular novel shares my name.
So it seemed like fate I should pick it up.
It was so short that I read it mostly in one sitting while still on vacation.Being the ninth Discworld book, this may sound odd, but you can still tell this is early Pratchett, when he was still feeling out the world and the characters.
It's still good, solid work, and it has some great comedic moments, but it's not as refined and sharp as his later work.
I think this may be my least favorite Discworld book so far. It still have some funny moments, but it was a quick read, and I'm always looking forward to read another Discworld book.
Tipping over 200 pages, this is a mercifully short story giving Rincewind just enough leeway to play his hapless, cowardly wizard with the kind heart but not too many opportunities to irritate.
As the very first main character in the very first DiscWorld book *, Rincewind occupies a sentimental spot with fans so I do try hard to see why.
Part of the fun in reading Pratchett is wondering what characters pop up.
No hay mejor psiquiatra que te ayude en momentos de necesidad que un buen libro de Mundo Disco
Rincewind needs out of the Dungeon Dimensions, a young demonologist wants some wishes granted (and needs a cold shower), and several different demons have their own ideas of what should be done.
Eric believes Rincewind is the demon he worked so hard to call and demands his three wishes (rule the world, meet the most beautiful girl in history, and live forever).
Not a lot of character development, Rincewind is a known quantity at this point, and Eric is nothing more than an out of depth, horny teenager; his wishes are more of a presence than he is.
Executive Summary: This was a quick read, even for a Discworld book, but not one of my favorites, especially following the excellent Guards! Guards!. Full Review It seems apparent that the Rincewind books are my least favorite sub-series of Discworld. So far I've only really enjoyed The Light Fantastic. It's not that they are bad exactly, they just aren't nearly as good as the City Watch, Death or Witches books have been so far.I'm not particularly fond of Rincewind either. The best part of his
Executive Summary: This was a quick read, even for a Discworld book, but not one of my favorites, especially following the excellent Guards!
It seems apparent that the Rincewind books are my least favorite sub-series of Discworld.
It's not that they are bad exactly, they just aren't nearly as good as the City Watch, Death or Witches books have been so far.I'm not particularly fond of Rincewind either.
Things go a bit crazy and Rincewind does his best to run away as usual.There are some pretty funny parts, and a few good quotes, but far fewer than Guards!
