https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1148823.Thieves_Like_Us
Born in the countryside, he fell in with a bunch of bad kids and ended up in prison almost by mistake.
His bad judgement is compounded by making friends with T-Dub and Chicamaw, which he follows out of a perverted sense of loyalty and fascination with their rebellious trash talk.The novel is less a heist thriller and more of a character study – both for the criminal minds and for society in the aftermath of the Great Depression.
Keechie is his chance to escape this cycle of violence, but Bowie feels duty bound to stand by his criminal buddies.
Too bad Edward Anderson never wrote more books like this one.
Published in 1937, THIEVES LIKE US is half noir, half romance entwined with a violent group of jail break bank robbers on a deadly mission for that elusive big score.
Post roaring twenties, that era is very much an influence on the novel with references to prohibition, the allure of bank robbing, and small time gangsters casing small town banks paramount throughout.THIEVES LIKE US follows a band of prison escapees on the run from the law and on the look-out for quick scores.
The story of bank robbers on the run was ripped straight from Bonnie and Clyde and Dillinger headlines in the "Public Enemy" Era of the Great Depression, a time when the average citizen was more inclined to sympathize with the criminal than with the bank.
With a low page count, Anderson doesn't waste words but still packs in a lot of story to go with the authentic dusty back-roads small-town setting, and the crisp dialogue still crackles after all these years.
No wonder Raymond Chandler called this book "one of the best crook stories ever written."
You get out here and run those roads and pull a thing like that back yonder [springing Chicamaw by pretending to be a sheriff with a bench warrant] and beat these Laws right and left, and, by God, Bowie, I don't see how in the hell you do it.
You're just a big country boy and just chumpy as hell at times and yet you do it.But Bowie and Keechie's luck eventually runs out, as one could tell almost at the start of the novel.No matter, savage irony or not, Thieves Like Us is not only a good read, but a cornerstone of the whole noir genre.
Set in the 1930s in Texas, Mississippi, and Oklahoma, this is a Depression-era story with a good bit of social commentary, with bankers referred to as “thieves like us” and politicians who “use their damned tongues instead of a gun.”I found the story slow to start with, as there was a lot of conversation between the three men that I didn’t find particularly engrossing.
I thought that was quite a good narrative device as the media account of the “dangerous” criminals didn’t tally at all with their rather dull lives of hiding out, reading the paper and discussing ball games.There was a feeling of unease right from the start which turned to unavoidable doom at the latest by the time Bowie and Keechie set off road tripping and ‘Bonnie and Clyde’ automatically came to mind.
I had never heard of this before and only read it because I've been working my way through the Library of America "Crime Novels" collection.
It felt of the time.
I felt the way I did the first time I read "Of Mice and Men" (i.e. blown away and wondering whether I just read the great American novel).Finding hidden treasures like this is what us bibliophiles live for.
Go. Now!Great quotes:"The empty highway behind them looked like a stretching rubber band.""There are more millionaires in this country than in any other, he said, and at the same time more robbers and killers.
The most gracefully written crime novel there is. . .a MUST read for fans of the genre - pick it up at any and all costs.
That's a helluva dedication, one of the most intriguing I've ever read, especially considering Anderson had a cousin who served time in prison for bank robbery.PACE=3 stars: The first half rages along, then the second half slows to explore a relationship.
But later, he says, "Them lawyers and druggists are theives just like us." Then, "Them politicians are thieves just like." Very stylish dialogue here which, at times, crosses the line into "stop already!" and it is understandable that Raymond Chandler, he of style over substance, would praise this book.
And it was, indeed, made into a film entitled "They Live By Night" directed by Nicholas Ray. Summary: This is a nicely written character/atmosphere-driven work.
This was a bit dull for crime noir. The bank jobs and jailbreaks (the exciting parts) are barely described compared to the tedium of hiding out, boring conversations, and general watching out the windows for the cops. I kept thinking how much I loved Jim Thompson's The Getaway in comparison. Read in Crime Novels: American Noir of the 1930s & 40s collection from the library.
Rolled my eyes three times. Clunky hobo/wise guy dialogue detracts. Story line is good enough, the one redeeming feature.
The other thread of this novel is Bowie's romance with Keechie.
Bowie is always thinking about making one more score and then packing it in, and when he's with Keechie he starts making that new life, but this is noir and the sense of inevitability is pervasive, something even Bowie, who describes himself as a black sheep, feels.
The romance part got a bit tedious at times but is essential for the complete character arc that gives the novel its depth..
Edward Anderson’s 1937 novel Thieves Like Us tells the story of Bowie Bowers, murderer and bank robber.
They’re smart enough to know that in a corrupt society politicians, police, lawyers and businessmen are all in their various ways just “thieves like us”.
This is a crime novel, but it’s also in the tradition of American political novels like The Grapes of Wrath.
Bowie and Keechie are wonderful creations – they’re complex characters with tangled motivations, people who know that the road they’re on can only lead to one disastrous, but unable to find a way to get off that road.
Characteristic of Noir, in Thieves Like Us, the protagonist Bowie Bowers is fighting a losing battle against a corrupt system and against himself.
Watching him self-destruct is painful but also poignant as it reflects on the more tragic side of human existence.I've found you either like Noir or you don't.
Its strength is that it humanizes the "bad guy," and gives new meaning to the idiom "being your own worst enemy."In the end, Noir illustrates the complexity of what it means to be human by blurring the lines between labels like "good" and "bad/evil." On that front, Thieves Like Us succeeds.
Raymond Chandler declared this one of the great forgotten novels of the 1930s.
I'm not going to argue with Chandler.
Anderson gives us a look at depression era bank robbers in Oklahoma and Texas.
Anderson looks at a trio of escaped convicts who are robbing banks in Texas, before shifting the focus to a single character Bowie Bowers.
The shift allows us to get a better glimpse in to the thought processes of the character, something that wouldn't have been possible with three protagonists in such a short novel.
There is a bit of a working class cant that the robberies are justified because the banks can afford it.
This was one of my dad's books that I hung onto after he died in 1991.
It sat unread on my shelf for over two decades, and I packed it up, and moved it - three times, at least.
I wonder why.
There are almost no details concerning the bank robberies; indeed, we learn about most of the "action" through the characters reading about the accounts in newspapers well after the fact.
And there is WAY too much time spent on the mundane relationship between Keechie and Bowie.
You guessed it - newspaper account.
Thieves Like Us published in 1937, is a novel of a group of three bank robbers.
Bowie Bowers is the main character along with his girlfriend Keechie, try to start a life separate from the notoriety of his bank robbing.
Bowie is a good hearted man, who really loves Keechie and wants to have a life with her, but he is also loyal to his other two friends, even after one is killed and the other in prison.
Those in power are sometimes just as guilty as these bank robbers.
Bankers and the police themselves can also be "Thieves Like Us."
(This review is for the audiobook, which I could not find on Goodreads) Interminable conversations between boring, stupid people. I didn't care for this novel. There was an authentic tang to the dialogue that was enjoyable for a bit, but when nothing interesting was said and the action turned out to be boring, listening to this thing became a slog. I cranked up the reading speed to as fast as I could take it just to get to the end asap, although I don't know why I bothered. The reader for this audiobook did not help things either.
A good dime novel. Crime doesn't pay and this story proves that.Fun read and the references to cars etc..., of the time are fun.
As Anderson’s Bowie Bowers observes, “Them capitalist fellows are thieves like us….They rob widows and orphans.” If you find yourself nodding in agreement with Bowie then you’ll want to join him, his young girlfriend Keechie and his brothers in crime T-Dub and Chicamaw as they pull off a series of successful bank robberies, battle the “Laws,” and traverse west Texas of the 1930s.
Irony abounds in this notion, as loyalty leads to some pretty bad outcomes for these guys.Within Anderson’s tale of life on adrenaline and thievery, readers will discover a love story, that between Bowie and Keechie.
In part, I would say that like a lot of semi-early versions of a genre, the rawness and the rough around the edges quality of a novel is such a limiting factor and you can feel it.
Rough.I guess what I feel like talking about is a trope of a lot of novels, and especially noir, this being absolutely no different or special, use, and that is the main guy…the protagonist we’re watching.
It’s maybe accidentally a revealing look at abusive relationships, but even then, they’re not usually presented as abusive.
This book really burned me up. Don’t get the wrong idea, I loved the story, but I hated how it all turned out. Not in a literary sense, but because I felt more invested in some fictional characters than I should’ve. . .
In the dusty towns of Texas and Oklahoma, three escaped convicts go to what they know, bank heists. Along the way there is romance (one aspect I absolutely liked), but overall, the book is a little thin. For me, I would have liked a little more detail on each of the heists along with more back story. I thought of Thieves Like Us as more of an embellished screenplay. An added note, I liked how certain things were revealed in newspaper articles. Wow, I am old school, I still read and enjoy newspapers.

Depression-Era Classic NoirEdward Anderson published only two novels.
This one, “Thieves Like Us,” was published in 1937 and stands as a classic of depression era noir.
A very poetic novel, it is a great crime story, a story of devoted friendship, self-destruction, and love.
The great power of this novel comes in the dialogue and the description.
“The man had a double chin, lumpy and soft-looking like the belly of a frog,” describes one character, and for another: “When Hawkins smiled, his eyes became wrinkled pockets and his cheeks looked like balls wrapped in cellophane.”The narrative begins as three escapees from a chain gang go on to rob banks, but they never steal from anyone who can’t afford it.
The trio of thieves consists of young country boy Bowie, wild man Chicamaw and veteran criminal T-Dub. When Bowie falls for innocent tomboy Keechie, cousin of Chicamaw, he blindly believes that he can leave this dangerous life of crime behind.
Thieves Like Us starts off as a classic slice of pulp fiction with some great passages of creative writing and literary flair.
Perhaps the original novel has been overshadowed by the film They Live by Night but I would still highly recommend seeking out this crime book by Edward Anderson to any fans of classic noir fiction.
thieves like us treads the line between crime caper and polemic about ethical consumption under capitalism; while the characters are thieves and murderers they comment on the world around them as though each participating member of society is just as bad: banks, landlords, druggists, police - they're all "thieves like us" because the existence and contexts of those jobs, especially backdropped against a dirt poor America, is exploitative.
It moves authentically through dialect and class but the there's nothing propulsive about the plot.
we kind of meander through a life of crime and the tension of the drama (crime!
thieves on the run!
death!) never really rises or falls, which makes the whole thing edge on boring.
I struggled with rating this book.
Anderson has a fine style and it is interesting novel about what the depression did to some poor people and how they each dealt with it according to their limitations including the limitations of their personalities.
Anderson is a poor plotter, however.
While this is better plotted than his first novel HUNGRY MEN, structurally you do not get to plot point 1 until half way through the book.
There is just a lot of incidents prior to this that do not take us very far.
Plot point 2 ends the book, instead of setting up the ending of the book.
1937 book featured on TCM'S Noir Alley. As is usually the case, the book is better as it didn't have to deal with code and producers. The author sold the rights for $50 and died penniless. if you like Steinbeck, you'll like this.
Fast-moving thriller about a trio of bank robbers who get a little too cocky. They're always sitting around talking about white-collar crime, saying"they're thieves just like us." Things get hot for them, and finally, only one of them is still free and alive.
The book’s theme is that everybody is a thief just like the bank robber protagonists. You know this because it repeats that every other page. Dullllllll
