https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/115407.England_Made_Me

And I only just finished the book.On the positives: Whatever happened between 1934 and 1935, Greene has now realised that female characters are also three-dimensional individuals, and that portraying women in novels as cliched side-kicks is best left to the Ian Flemings* of this world.
"It was true, she always knew; she was his elder by half an hour; she had, she sometimes thought with a sense of shame, by so little outstripped him in the pursuit of the more masculine virtues, reliability, efficiency, and left him with what would have served most women better, his charm."(* I am aware of the anachronism - but can't help myself comparing Greene and Fleming from time to time.)Review first posted on Booklikes - http://brokentune.booklikes.com/post/...
The most memorable characters in Graham Greene’s 1935 novel England Made Me are, as always, the failures.
Anthony Farrant has been fired from jobs everywhere from Aden to Shanghai.
Anthony Farrant, in his one good suit, his Harrow tie (a lie, of course), with his boyish charm and his charming lies.
Like so many of Greene’s most pathetic characters, Minty is a Catholic (as was Greene).
Minty’s only companion is a spider that has taken up residence in his room.
Greene’s world is a corrupt world, a world with very little hope, where life is a series of disappointments and failures.
If this book had been writen in the last few years with it's banking crisis and failing economies you could say that he was just merely jumping on the bandwagon but this was first published in 1935 and was the book that was said to have brought him to prominence within the literary community.As with many of Greene's books he paints a moody scene but there is little action and all the characters are seen as flawed, damaged by public school life.The book is basically about the decline of a conman, Anthony Farrant, who has been sacked from various jobs and kicked out of gentlmens' clubs all over the world but finds a kindred spirit in his sister's boss/boyfriend, Krogh, who gives him a job.
This is probably the weirdest Graham Greene book I've read.
He experiments with shifting points of view and cubistic description in ways that, along with the novel's incestuous themes, make me think Greene must have read a little Faulkner (AS I LAY DYING and THE SOUND AND THE FURY) before writing this.
There are some passages of gorgeous sadness that are up there with the best of Greene's work.
On the whole though, this isn't Greene at his best.
Worth reading only if you have read most of Greene's other work first and are a completist, like me.
As a character study, excellently done.Great atmosphere and the style is special. Every word is exactly as it should be.Women are not stereotypical women, caught in their time, but three-dimensional and not what the men want them to be.It's about family.And yet it is difficult to read, not easy and not very light. So it took me longer than expected. But I liked it, it just didn't blow me away.
Continuing my Graham Greene journey has led me to this novel. Set in Sweden, but all about the English fascination with societal division, Greene puts forth two main characters, twins, brother and sister, who fall under the golden hand of a tycoon who has lost connection with the working class that sprung him. Dark, at times depressing in its cynicism, but also realistic in its depiction of limitations in people no matter the heights they soar.
Harrow comes up as a theme in this novel, even though it's set in a highly fictionalized Sweden.
Having read, over the last three and a half months, at least sixteen novels by Graham Greene, I can say that one of the main pleasures of reading him is seeing the variations he makes on his themes.
There is often a literary man thrown in, whose utterances allow Greene to practice the art of parody; there is a newspaperman the main characters are wary of, and there is, here as all the other Graham Greene novels, a glimpse of the suffering of each character.England Made Me may not be the best starting place for the reader of Graham Greene.
I really enjoyed this book. This is a very wierd story, with a strange plot and structure. But its depression era setting and overarching theme - depression era stagnation, global finance, personal failure, incest, corporate corruption, changing mores and values - has I find a lot of surprising resonance today. It could also be the script of some 1960s existentialist French film. Not a master piece, but a little gem nonetheless.
Another equally fascinating creation is the English journalist exile Minty, who owes his meager existence to covering the doings of Krough and is a different sort of failure than Anthony.
They are exiles who lust for the green fields of England and curse the fates for not having been born with money, because both believe that given a chance and trust of an investment they could be successful.
I was trying to figure out why Greene chose that play, and it may be because it has a mixed reputation and doesn't have a long history of being staged like some of his more famous tragedies.
Surprisingly, I found out I first read this novel in 1974 and, vaguely, I sold it to the DASA Book Cafe some years ago and forgot to look at the last page in which, normally, I would write down the date read and time (presently) in pencil.
For some reasons I've learned not to write in ink since, I think, all books I've bought and read are too precious to write, underline or scribbles in ink.Just imagine, time simply flies, I mean I read it some four decades ago and also went to watch the film in the cinema.
It was a strange read, and reminded me of The Evenings by Gerard Reve in that it built a formidable tension in a seemingly static setting.England made me is introspective, slow in action although I now know it was a false sense of slowness, Greene had caught me so intensely into the internal dialogues & tragedies of each character that I failed to hear the ticking of fate's clock.
Not one of this novel's character was flat or neglected, each was beautifully studied, particularly the relationship that binds twins, whether they like it or not.
Mine is actually a 1970 Penguin - too bad I can't find the precise edition on here as the cover illustration is very characteristic of that time.A somewhat lesser-known Greene from 1935, he presents a marvelous rogues gallery of unsympathetic characters, all hustling to get by.
Much more would give away the plot which is quite harrowing in Greene's low-key way.
When I first started reading England Made Me I found it a little boring but as the book progressed I got into it.
Anthony with his sense of justice is unable to stomach Krogh's dodgy dealings, when he steals stories to the press it has dire consequences.
Like all Greene's books there is a strong moral element running through.
It is probably one of the most interesting of Greene's novels I have read to date.
I thought the character of Minty was particularly interiguing, he was an interesting weird little guy who's interactions I enjoyed reading.
"The Shipwrecked" is about a very big business that gets overextended, and the attempts of its owner to cover his tracks regardless of who gets hurt.
It's also about twins -- a brother and sister -- who have grown up and grown apart and what happens when they get back together.It's probably the best book I've ever read that was set in Stockholm, Sweden.As with seemingly all of Graham Greene's novels, most of the characters aren't likable.
Off hand, I can't think of any character in "The Shipwrecked" that I did like.
But I think this was one of his weaker efforts, at least among the Greene novels I've read.
Very good.
I can see the same approaches, character types and stylistic tones coming out in this as in Brighton Rock (the only other Greene I have read so far).
Dark, lonely and desolate; I like the way the damp, the mist and the surrounding water in Stockholm infiltrates everything and enhances the novel's mood.
It wasn't mind-blowingly excellent, but I loved the couple relationships: of the twin brother and sister, of Krogh and his old-friend-now-hired-muscle Hall, and that of Anna and Krogh.
An excellent opening to the novel; and interesting in terms of Minty's style of speaking in the first person, and appearing to become the narrator.
I really don't know what to say about this book. I never really got into the story and still can't really tell you what it was all about. I have no idea what Krogh was involved in, I think I must have drifted off at some point and missed something. None of the characters were particularly likeable and some seemed to come and go without any point to them. At least it was a short read and hey its another one ticked off the list.
A joy to read, Graham Greene is an absolute master of the English language and story telling.
I guess when it does get going, it's a study of contrasts in dishonesty and cheating, dishonourability; Anthony's cheap falseness, pretending to be parts of clubs he's not, to know people he doesn't making up stories to explain the scar he got in quite a pedestrian way.
And Anthony ends up dead in the end, because he knows something that could hurt Krogh, and Hall' s not going to let that happen -- maybe he's the most honorable character, not because he does the right thing, but because his motivations are simple, and consistent, but then, aren't everyone elses?
"She might have been waiting for her lover." So opens Graham Greene's book, England Made Me, in a railway station cafe, where Kate Ferrant is expecting to meet her twin brother Anthony.
She intends to persuade her boss, Swedish industrialist Erik Krogh, to give a job to the feckless twin, who is unable to "open his mouth without lying."Krogh employs Anthony as his bodyguard as he secretively works to ensure the success of his business expansion.
Krogh, from a working class background, can afford to buy all the trappings of the rich, upper-class circles to which his business success has brought him, but he struggles to fit in.
Kate's boyfriend Kris is a big business tycoon, very rich, very powerful, and unmindful of his power.
Anthony, though, has moved on, and while not as rich or well-off as Kate, Anthony is able to make good friends and useful acquaintances easily.
He finds a girlfriend right away, and makes friends with a reporter who has been covering Kris's company and private life for his paper.
This was a decently crafted novel, where even when you get to where you know how the story has to end, you do find yourself hoping that Anthony will make it to Coventry anyway, to meet up with his nice girlfriend and have a good, safe, long life with her or even just drifting as he has been.
Another worthwhile Greene novel with three memorable characters.
Anthony Farrant is 30, has travelled a lot, is charming, handsome, unreliable, lost a number of jobs and doesn't tell the truth.
Kate Farrant is intelligent, efficient, practical, who loves her brother Anthony.
She works for financier, millionaire, Erich Krogh.
She is also Erich's girlfriend.
He has a ruthless sidekick in Hall who does Erich's bidding.
Greene's concise writing style, plot twists, being introduced to a new country and his focus on human contradiction and moral ambiguity always leave me feeling satisfied after reading his novels.

An early novel by Greene about Anthony, a ne'er-do-well, who is invited by his twin sister to Stockholm to work for Krogh, her boss and lover, a seemingly all-powerful financier. When Anthony is asked to do something immoral, he leaks information to the press, with life-changing results for everyone. The novel reads suprisingly modern for having been written in the 1930s, and yes, even that early Greene manages to include a conflicted, Catholic character, in this case Minty, a seedy journalist.
This short novel tells the tale of a brother and sister who have long been separated. The brother has lived the life of a vagabond often pretending to be what he is not and is generally regarded as a scoundrel. In the end, he turns out to be a man of principal who pays for it with his life while his more honorable sister turns out to be the one of the pair that will sell out to get ahead in the world.
Greene....you need to tone it down with your flowery language. There were barely any instances with engaging plot shifts or noticeable character developments. This entire novel just drudged continuously and predictably with the same wistful, reminiscing tones and left no room for any other elements whatsoever. Extremely boring and dull, I found myself speed-reading purely for the sake of finishing.
An exceptionally poor Greene book, very little plot or story line, began with potential, but very quickly went down hill and never recovered. There is very little to take away in a positive light for this book.
Finally, as a long time lover of Greene's work I was particularly interested to read in Darley's piece that Greene expressed "a particularly soft spot" for England Made Me. In an interview with Simon Raven and Martin Shuttlesworth in the Paris Review in the 1950s he said "I was beginning to find my own world.
Greene is always good at characters, and the collection here is very good — Anthony Farrant, a professional ne’er do well, Erik Krogh, a wealthy Swedish businessman Kate Farrant, Anthony’s twin sister and Krogh’s assistant and mistress, Krogh’s right hand man, Fred Hall, and Ferdinand Minty, a sketchy reporter stalking Krogh.
He is also jealous of all things Farrant, Kate as Krogh’s mistress and Anthony as the drinking and partying buddy Krogh has never really had.Unlike some of Greene’s other stories, this one touches very little in the way of political idealism or religious faith.
Sacked."Anthony is out of work again and Kate gets him a job with Erik Krogh, a wealthy Swedish businessman.
I don't like Kate much either, Anthony and Kate’s relationship borders on the incestuous, and I get tired of her constantly trying to take care of him when he is certainly old enough to be taking care of himself.
I wish more of the book would have been about Krogh and less about Kate and Anthony, I may have ended up hating Krogh too, but I wish I would have been given the chance.
