https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22589046-the-spanish-farm
R H Mottram served in France from 1914 to 1919. The Spanish Farm was first published in 1924 and won the Hawthornden Prize. Mottram wrote some sixty books altogether and in 1966 he was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters by the University of East Anglia. He died in 1971.
fantastic short novel of flemish farmer girl turned hardnosed international holtelier and modern woman on the sexual front. detailed, believable really good novel.
A novel of WW1.
This is the story of the pragmatic and independent Madeline Vanderlynden.
Madeline is a young woman of Flemish stock a country girl at heart whose farm The Spanish Farm lies on the very edge of the great conflict.The novel deals with the stoicism of ordinary people.
This novel offers an interesting perspective of the conflict seen through Madeline's eyes.
It's a story of resourcefulness and stoicism.The novel is also a romance and in some respects it is a coming of age book for Madeline.
(And the author remarks on that time and again.) The primary characters are the Spanish Farm itself and World War I.
Madeleine is also prompted to act by her passion for Georges, the young nobleman with whom she has been having an affair, but that serves more as a way of broadening the canvas on which the war is portrayed rather than by deepening her character.Because of that, I had a difficult time becoming involved in the story, but eventually I relaxed into it -- as opposed to getting caught up in it.
It's a war story, but it's not exciting.
A very well written book. A lot of descriptive words of 1924 when the original book was written. R.H. Mottram served in WW1. I wonder if he came across or was billet at a "Spanish Farm" during the War.
I was totally uninterested in this character and all that surrounded her. When I saw it was set during WW1, I thought I'd get more of a flavor for life during this time period, but I was let down. I hoped for less of a 'story' and more history, oddly enough.
I was thoroughly uninterested in this character, in her activities, and in the events happening around her. When I saw it was set during WW1, I thought I'd get more of a flavor for life during this time period, but I was let down on all counts.
It was interesting to get a somewhat different insight into WW1, namely that of a young French woman trying to get on with her life. However, the woman in question was quite irritating and sometimes ridiculous, which spoiled the story for me a bit.
Completely differentA different perspective of war, that I found very enjoyable and entertaining. A style of story telling that was captivating.
doesn't translate well from 1924
