https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121581.The_Past_Through_Tomorrow
I know this not because I remember the event, but because I wrote it in the back of a paperback copy of "The Past Through Tomorrow," an 830-page collection of Robert Heinlein's "Future History" stories.
Only much later, in the final story, does the main character refer back to the machine and to Pinero, making a nice closure for the reader.There is a stately progression through the short stories, which tell of the invention of moving roadways between American cities ["The Roads Must Roll," "Blowups Happen"].
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Conveyor Belts: "The Past Through Tomorrow" by Robert A.
Heinlein(Original Review, 1980-10-13)People have complained about roads as conveyor belts as represented in Heinlein's THE ROADS MUST ROLL as being an inefficient means of transportation because of a number of reasons, some of those being energy efficiency and the problems of handicapped people using them.
Instead of building them as a single conveyor belt, how about building them as a variable speed conveyor belt (by this I mean a conveyor belt that at different locations on it can have different speeds).
Con una sólida y plausible base científica a la vez que social ( SIEMPRE HA SIDO UN GENIO COMBINANDO AMBAS CIENCIAS EN SUS ESCRITOS), el autor nos adentra en una serie de 21 magistrales historias, algunas mejores que otras (pero ninguna mala), conectadas en tiempo y espacio, a nivel piramidal y semi cronológico, otorgando con los primeros relatos una base sociológica y tecnológica que irá cambiando y desarrollándose conforme avancen éstos.
Hay dos apartados , los cuales titulo como:1/ avances y / predicciones sociales 2/ avances y / o predicciones tecnológicasEn éstos hallareis las bases que plantea Heinlein en sus historias conectadas ( para que os podáis hacer una idea del desarrollo de los dos volúmenes).
Quizás actualmente esté un tanto olvidado por los lectores, pero muchas de sus ideas todavía siguen vigentes hoy en día y llevan a la reflexión.
Heinlein fue una persona compleja, y tacharla de fascista por una única obra (‘Starship Troopers’) me parece excesivo.
En principio, los relatos no fueron escritos de manera cronológica, pero posteriormente sí fueron publicados siguiendo su cronología interna, una idea que partió de John W.
Heinlein estableció una serie de avances tecnológicos, políticos y sociales a lo largo de los años, que le sirven de decorado para contar sus historias.
This is a compilation of 21 Heinlein short stories in his 'Future History'. If you've never read Heinlein & want a good introduction, this is probably the best single book of his works you can buy. You'll see quite a range of his best. The paperback is as fat as one of Jordan's books & contains some novella length stories - two, "Revolt in 2100" & "Methuselah's Children" were published as novels. Others are title stories from other short story collections "The Green Hills of Earth" & "The Man Who Sold The Moon", for example.
It contains 21 stories, some of which are novel-length for that time (50,000 words).
The last story, "Methuselah's Children" has been published as a stand-alone novel (yes, I have it).I won't try to review all of the stories for fear of boring everyone.
It's enough that most of them are highly entertaining, even by today's standards, and all fit within Heinlein's "future history" timeline.Of the stories, "Methuselah's Children" is my all-time favorite.
It leads into a huge tomb of it's own, "Time Enough for Love", which Heinlein published later.
A worthy read for Heinlein's fans. The quality of the stories varies a bit, as they were written at different times, but having them in this collection and chronologically ordered helps keep the "future history" timeline straight.The stories suffer from Heinlein's usual flaws (i.e. female characters) but also showcase his strengths (e.g. pushing new social and political ideas, a love and veneration of science). This collection is a good example of why Heinlein is considered one of the big three (even if I did forget whether I was reading Future History or Robot and Empire occasionally).
In it he introduces his best known character, Lazarus Long.
Probably his next best character in terms of references to the character in other stories, would be D.D. Harriman.
And to be honest, in many ways Harriman was a more likable character than Lazarus Long.
I think my favorite story is "The Long Watch" which is straight patriotic adventure with a wonderful hero.
Heinlein came up with many sci fi concepts in these stories that have at least some bearing in reality.
We have that concept in reality now, many decades after Heinlein created it.
I don't think I'll read it again.
https://nwhyte.livejournal.com/2910459.htmlHeinlein's mammoth future history: 21 stories published as a collection in 1967, though in fact all but two originally came out between 1939 and 1949, outlining the future development of humanity through the coming centuries.
Heinlein misses a lot of things - notably the rise of information technology; his 23rd century spaceships are still running with slide rules.
But the idea of framing a future history based on technological advance rather than, say, the mysticism of Olaf Stapedon remains engaging.
The whole collection is one of those taproot texts of the genre that remains well worth reading.
The original Star Trek series was like one version of The Past Through Tomorrow.
(What we see now and what we may see in the future).Some of the things science has come up with that were portrayed on TV are as follows:*Dr. McCoy's hypo spray = needle-less vaccination guns used in hospitals.*Captain Kirk's handheld computer on the bridge = Microsoft's Tablet PCs.*Captain Kirk's communicator = cell phones minus miniature bomb..*Motion sensors in ships doors = pocket doors in hospitals & grocery stores.*One function of the communicator = GPS in a cell phone with the Google Locater program enabled so others can see where you are located.*The episode where Worf is completely paralyzed and has to have special gizmos at various spots along his legs to get the muscles or nerves to fire right and help him learn to walk again = on TV news I saw the exact same time of thing.
Though I greatly enjoy Heinlen's writing, I didn't think I'd read very many of his short stories.
You find yourself trying to figure out how far in the future from the last story you read you are in the one you've just started.I think of the stories in the book, "Life-Line", "The Green Hills of Earth", and "Methuselah's Children" are my favorites, though I think I enjoyed every one of them.
And despite it's thickness, it's actually great for people who aren't much into big books - because it's a collection of short stories.
The best of Heinlein's classic future history short fiction. Arguably the best single-author collection of science fiction ever. I'd say that these stories did more to shape modern sf than any other works.
Entertaining on the whole but Heinlein's high handed opinion of men, coupled with his disdain /annoyance of women, children, and parents got old. It feels like SciFi based Ayn Rand diatribe with a hatred of heavy handed government meddling in the affairs of get-the-job-done men.
I think Heinlein was a better SF writer at shorter lengths, though this book is over 800 pages long. Methuseluh's Children is the best of them.
I got this for a song at the roadside. I never knew that it was a compendium of stories describing Heinlein's future universe: its development through time and space. Very enjoyable reading.
Just like Smith's showcased his interests in Eastern philosophies and modes of storytelling (among other things) Heinlein's future would allow him to work through problems in technology that he saw coming as well as the rise of religious fervor and the necessity of libertarian solutions to such problems.If you've ever heard the words "science-fiction" I hope I don't to explain who Robert Heinlein was but for those coming in fresh he was one of the giants of the genre during its Golden Age, his career spanning from when SF was considered juvenile "pulp" stuff to when it started being taken more seriously, with quite a bit of that new public perspective coming due to his efforts.
Also, most of these have that feeling to them I would describe as pulpy, which I think most people would consider fair, since they were actually first published (not all but many) in magazines.You hear a TONNE of superlatives bandied about these days - sometimes it is hard to sort through them to the real truth that underlies, and of course it doesnt help that writing is subjective, and something that rings true or is interesting / moving etc...All that said, the words that people use to describe Robert Heinlein do not begin to do him justice.Not every story is perfect, and in most the science is pretty speculative based on the period.
This looks at not only the longevity addressed in "Methuselah's Children," but the development of space travel, the establishment of a colony "Luna City" on the Moon, and, especially, tracing a number of intriguing characters and their influences upon these processes.
I found myself going back and forth to the aforementioned table numerous times, for it traces not only the characters, but also the developments in technology and space travel, but also social changes, upheavals, wars, etc., in a wide panorama.
This is probably the third time I have read this book, but it has been many, many years since the last read. What I found most interesting is...the stories were written in the 30's and 40's. The science was different then but so was the attitude towards women...and ethnic groups...and smoking! Overall this bunch of stories is very good for a lot of reasons. They certainly speak to how people generally interacted with each other. If you have a bit of a scientific bend...then all the references will thrill you.
Some of the stories are better than others, what I really enjoyed about this was that the books and short stories were in chronological order, so the young fellow wanting to go to the moon many pages ago eventually invents space flight, and then several stories later does get to go. It makes you feel like you have more invested in the series, as well. One day I want to own all of the books and to read them all in linear order.
Always amusing to go back and read classic sci-fi and see which predictions were far-seeing and which ones failed to pan out. I understand why highways were never replaced with "rolling roads", but someone tell me why we haven't colonized the moon yet?
Spider Robinson be damned, RAH is a closet misogynist and male chauvinist pig, and his later stuff doesn't change that.
Heinlein's "Future History" all wrapped up in one volume. An important starting point for  Time Enough For Love and pretty much all of his later books.
This is a collection of twenty-one vintage Heinlein short stories with a wide variety of plots. This is a great read for the science fiction fan. There are several classics in the collection.
Another of my all-time favorites. Heinlein,while not as famous as Asimov, is at least his equal. The stories in this book, written over decades, paint a galaxy that is fascinating and complex.
In 1966, the Hugo Awards presented a one-time award for "Best All-time Series. The 5 candidates were:"Foundation" by Isaac Asimov"Barsoom" by Edgar Rice Burroughs "Future History" by Robert A. Heinlein "Lensmen" by E. E. Smith "The Lord of the Rings" by J. R. R. TolkienFoundation won.I pick up this book and was pleasantly surprised to find that it had almost the entire collection of "Future History" (it is missing 3 stories totaling about 130 pages).There were some jaw-dropping amazing moments,
In 1966, the Hugo Awards presented a one-time award for "Best All-time Series.
The 5 candidates were:"Foundation" by Isaac Asimov"Barsoom" 	by Edgar Rice Burroughs 	"Future History" by 	Robert A.
TolkienFoundation won.I pick up this book and was pleasantly surprised to find that it had almost the entire collection of "Future History" (it is missing 3 stories totaling about 130 pages).There were some jaw-dropping amazing moments, as well as some jaw-dropping sexist bullshit.
And though the series ends suddenly (I felt).
I'm just going to give it 5-star on principle.My favorite story was "If this goes on", not for it's enjoyment, but for it's scope.
Over a period of more than 20 years, Robert Heinlein had in mind a future history of Earth, and he wrote 21 stories (not sequentially) which took place in this history (before it resolved into the Lazarus Long/Howard Families series of novels).
This collection completes that series, finalising with "Methuselah's Children." Unfortunately I suspect most of it will be harder going for many readers ...
But anyone wanting to delve into the thought processes of a highly regarded old master of the form will appreciate this book, and the final two stories are my favorites.
Heinleinen nobela pare bat irakurri nituen eta egia esan, ez zitzaizkidan gehiegi gustatu, baina istorio hauek benetan zoragarriak iruditu zaizkit. Istorio gehienak balizko etorkizunean Ilargiaren esplorazio eta kokaleku bezala erabiltzean oinarritzen dira.Había leído un par de novelas de Heinlein y no me habían gustado demasiado, pero estos relatos me han parecido maravillosos. La mayoría de ellos se basan en una hipotética exploración y asentamiento en la Luna.
A collection of Heinlein's Future History stories. They all take place within his little universe. Originally written as installments in a science fiction based magazine?I enjoyed this old style of science fiction. It is what I grew up on. There are a lot of stereo types typical of the time they were written. It give me some hint of how much society has changed over the years.Have a GoodReads.
Heinlein, Robert A. The Past Through Tomorrow. Introd. Damon Knight. 1967. Ace, 1987.If you are a Heinlein fan, you have probably read most of these short stories and novels in this 800-page volume, but it is interesting to see if a case can be made for a consistent future history in Heinlein’s work. I am not sure that it can. Certainly, he did not set out to create such a thing, even if we may find it after the fact. In any case, rereading Heinlein is always fun.
