https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15558.Angel_Fire_East
So I found myself disappointed with the last two books of this series.
Whereas the first book had heart and emotional resonance, this had neither.
Whereas the first book had secrets and laid them out beautifully before revealing them, this book had none.
Whereas the first book made me love the characters, this book turned me away from them.I know Mr. Brooks has done some excellent works.
The onething I can think of in his defense is that he was writingtwo novels at the same time so doing both may have dilutedhis work.OVERALL GRADE: C minus to C.
Ok, so it's going to be a long Void-nudged downfall, I get it.
A short story would suffice.This trilogy takes place in our times.
The "daemons" nudged the world into turmoil and constant decline.
Unfortunately that's the only value this trilogy has to offer to the overall Shannara universe.
Simple conclusion is that this trilogy was a waste of paper and time.I wanted to skim through Shannara because there is a TV series pending launch next year, but I'm telling, if I have to take one more beating like this, I will hate Brooks' Shannara forever.
Had to love Twitch too, and the whatever-it-was shadow thing (ur'droch).John Ross was a bit of a dud in this book though; Nest carried the show.
I mean, when she was meeting with Gask and Penny, John is just standing around, leaning on his staff.
You shouldn't have come here and stood around like a lump while Nest did all the work.
Where I used to work, we had a name for someone like that: a Blister.
Because they'd always show up when all the hard work was done.Anyway, the ending had me scratching my head a bit too.
But again, with John Ross.
The final book in the first (chronological) Shannara trilogy, this one foreshadows yet more of the events that lead to the end of our world as we know it and the beginning of the apocalypse that ends in Shannara proper. Nest and John together again, must mean demons are around. And again, it's never quite that simple.
This review is for the trilogy.The integration of the "real" world and fantasy elements is always difficult to work, and while Brooks gets it done alright, I'm just not convinced it was all that interesting.
The premise of these books is that demons from the "Void" are battling against agents or knights of the "Word." (You can think of a Christian Devil and God, if you want, and I can't say you'd really be far off the mark, though there are no overt religious allusions.) The main good guy, John, has dreams of the future and works to prevent what seems like Armageddon from coming to pass...yet it seems like he, or the "Word," will eventually fail.
In Angels Fire East we find four demons have come to the town where Nest lives and they are waiting for John Ross to show up with a magical entity.
On top of Nest having John Ross and Demons to handle, the little girl she saved back in book one rolls into town with her toddler.
The story follows Nest and Ross as they deal with the demons, attempt to activate the Gypsy Morph (the magical entity) who has taken the form of a little boy, and each struggle through personal issues.
This was my first Terry Brooks book, and while I would've liked to have read books 1&2 first, circumstances didn't permit it.
But even for not reading those two, I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
Even though there was talk of past events that may or may not have been part of those other books, I was not lost or clueless at any point (well, no more than usual).
The story was interesting and I was completely engrossed with both Nest and John's narratives, much more than I thought I would be.
Looks like now I'll have to search out some more of Brooks' books.
Okay but like, I'm sad?? I need to know what happens with Nest, Harper and little John asdfghj
Only Findo Gask really had any depth -- Twitch and the Ur'droch barely play bit parts, and Penny Dreadful just came across as a slightly psychopathic bimbo, not the deeply disturbed and dangerously unstable timebomb she was supposed to be.A real weakness of this book is Nest's relationship with other people.
The little boy has no presence, and when we finally see the morph's true form and how happy Nest is about it, it just feels hollow -- I can't feel invested in their relationship or how it ends.It's the plot and a few moments of really deep feeling that drive this book.
Great ending best one in the seriesThis has to be one of the greatest and trilogy books that I've read by Terry Brooks in the especially in the word World Series it follows right and his Chanera type of trilogies but anyway I loved it
There isn't really much insight into anything on the side of the Void, just another in a succession of evil creatures that just do their thing: there's no meeting with the Council of Evil or plans to subdue the forces of good or anything like that, just vague references to an overall theme.At one point, I really got the feeling that this was a Stephen King novel.
The ending was one that I liked, but even so, it almost seems as if he wanted to write more of these books and just never got the time to do it.
I really enjoyed my re-read of the Word & Void series.
I'm journeying through Shannara again in Terry Brooks suggested reading order.
Back when I was a kid, I didn't know that Word & Void was going to tie into Shannara.
Reading it in that context as an adult has been very cool.
Terry Brooks is a great author...
"That's Terry Brooks!!
He's SO awesome!!" I'm moving on to the Genesis of Shannara series next...
it's been a few years since I've read them, so I'm excited.
Which is odd, because I've never had a problem with his writing outside of this series.
As with the other books in this trilogy, ANGEL FIRE EAST suffers from glacial pacing, an overabundance of mundane description, and characters who devote far too much time to introspective self-analysis and feeling sorry for themselves.
He slows things down even further by inserting all sorts of unnecessary flashbacks, and by constantly referring back to the previous books, as though he felt his readers wouldn't be able to remember anything that had happened in prior installments.
There is a little bit of closure to Nest's story in this one, but it still leaves a lot to wonder about.
There were lots of things happening that just seemed to be for no reason - but I guess that's the nature of demons??
In many ways this is the darkest book of the series by far.I'm glad I read the series, I'm hoping to see bits and pieces of the lore pop up once we get back into the Shanarra portion of the story arc.
Brooks work on this book is definitely an improvement over the previous two in the trilogy.
The mystery of the gypsy morph completely eluded me until the very end which didn't happen in either of the other books.
And there is more of a horror twist to the writing which was not evidenced in the earlier books.
This new element makes the book much more readable.
Indeed, everything seems to be more amped up, the villains are more dedicated and play a larger part and the heroes put up a good fight.
Angel Fire East makes the trilogy worthwhile.
I love the books written by Terry Brooks.
He writes with such detailed description without unnecessary fillers.
This book is about fulfilling ones destiny, good vs.
evil, sacrifice for the betterment of mankind, sacrifice to give a life of service, and foregoing the present for the future.
My only criticism is to try to find what chronological order all his books are developed.
His books are written mostly in trilogy form but are loosely tied together.
I want to find out which books are to come after the Word & Void series.
Do the readers find out what happens to the gypsy morph and to Nest Freemark?
I found John Ross's lack of action whilst visiting Nest disturbing. The demons came across as schoolyard bullies without enough gumption to take control of the situation in spite of having an 'elite' leader and outnumbering the good guys. Sending nightmares via telephone..? Really? And Nest basically runs around like a chicken with its head cut off - lots of impulsive action with no real consequence. Baking cookies, caroling and sledding are probably not ideal activities for people in (allegedly) mortal danger.While this last volume is considerably better than the first two, it was still predictable and left threads dangling.
#3/29 in my Epic Shannara Quest.Terrific conclusion to The Word and the Void trilogy. Exciting, well-paced, with some of Brooks' most powerful writing. I found this novel to be the darkest of the trilogy, but it's also the most optimistic--light shines brightest in the darkest night. And unlike the first two, I couldn't predict where this one was going. If anything falls flat in this book, it's the character of Larry Spence, the Deputy Sheriff who become the pawn of the demon Findo Gask. But that wasn't enough to make me drop my rating at all.
Great ending to an excellent trilogy.
I absolutely love the Word and the Void series! So intricate and complex and emotional, this is definately my favorite series by Terry Brooks.
Last book in the series was a little bit more intriguing as we get more insight to this magic filled alternative earth, but characters were really awful - insecure, dumb as a doornail and naive.
:'(
Author Terry Brooks dedicates the third and final entry of his Word and Void trilogy, a distant prequel to the main Shannara books, to his father Dean, who established his scion as a writer.
The main events of the novel occur from Sunday, December 21 through Christmas Day, with protagonist Nest Freemark, having been an Olympic champion prior to the book’s events and is now twenty-nine years old, readying herself for church, and finding an enigmatic preacher named Findo Gask, who serves the Void, insisting it isn’t completely evil, and seeks John Ross, who he says has something important to him.

I didn't really understand Nest's character arc in this story.
Yes, by the end of the book you get what he was going for with the plot and Christmas and all that, but I didn't really understand the change in Nest, if there really was one.
She was really different from the Nest in the other books, and I get that she had matured, had experiences, a failed marriage, etc.
Also Bennett's role in the whole thing was a bit of a mystery.
It seemed like she was there just to make things a little more interesting: another piece for the demon to play with, another thing for Nest to worry about.
So many Harper and Nest parallels.I'm serious.
Again, there's something about the writing style that I can't really put my finger on, but it makes me feel like I could read a whole book of just random everyday occurrences without getting bored.
Of course, that's not what this book is, it's full of plot, but even if it wasn't, I would still enjoy reading it because of the writing.I also really appreciate how Nest is a reasonable person who actually takes time to think before reacting to stuff that happens.
That's the only reason this didn't get five stars.
John Ross has had a dream about the death of a Knight of the Word.
His death came after he had failed to capture a gypsy morph - a rare and powerful magic that has the ability to change the course of the battle of good and evil.
The Knight in the dream had John's face and he knew that his final charge for the Word will be to capture the morph and use its magic for good.
Together, they will have their hardest battle yet against an ancient demon who has taken the lives of several Knights in his time.
I loved this book, and look forward to expanding more into the fantastic world created by Terry Brooks. This book can be read alone, as can the other two in this series, however for the full impact and understanding of the story and all the factions, I do recommend reading the entire series in order. Because I've been asked, I rate this entire series a G, there is some magical violence, but nothing that should concern parents.A great introduction to series books for the tween or pre-tween in your life, and as an adult I enjoyed all three books immensely.
Superb Parable About SacrificeAFE concludes a dark, but amazing call to those who wonder if doing the right thing is worth it. In an American age of political strife, many lines drawn in the sand, and rampant discord, Terry Brooks captures the essence of right actions and right attitudes make the painful events we all go through OK. Terry Brooks rocks fantasy like no other writer!
Decisamente deluso da questa trilogia.Speravo che si potesse vedere come il mondo di shannara giungesse a come lo conosciamo, invece è una storia priva di emozioni, se non con qualche piccolo plot ogni tanto.Piena zeppa di filler narrativi assolutamente inutili e privi di necessità, sarebbe stato forse (e ripeto, forse) meglio condensare tutto in un unico libro, che avrebbe sicuramente coinvolto un po' di più
