https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/436806.Story_of_the_Eye
Ο ερωτισμός αποστρέφεται τη μεθοδική και μετρημένη δράση, ενώ έλκεται φυσικά από την ελεύθερη ορμή των ενστίκτων, τη βίαιη αταξία, εξ ου και μαζί με την εξέγερση είναι από τα ασφαλέστερα μέσα για να οδηγήσουν τον άνθρωπο στην απεριόριστη ευδαιμονία".
Ένας Διόνυσος,ανίερος και γυμνός,ικέτης της ακολασίας, της ΠΡΟΣ-ΤΥΧΗΣ ικανοποίησης των ενστίκτων και των φυσικών ορμών που δεν οδηγούν απλώς στην ανακούφιση και τη μηχανική απαλλαγή φυσικών αναγκών.Δεν έιναι η ανθρώπινη απελευθέρωση μέσα απο τον ερωτισμό.
Για τον Μπατάιγ το γυμνό κορμί και και η προδιαγεγραμμένη απο τη μοίρα συνάντηση με την πορνεία είναι το πούλημα στο χρήμα και τα χρηστά ήθη του καθωσπρεπισμού.
ADULTS ONLY! KIDS YOU STAY AWAY! take the sex act and strip away the burden of reality and what do you have?take two characters and make them fuck. you are the author and they are your puppets. they will do anything you want. does fucking equal life? can fucking be a form of transgression? so be it, make it so. add another character. a menage! subtract that character, the poor thing. have your characters fuck right next to her cold hanging corpse. they are fucking death! add another character,
take the sex act and strip away the burden of reality and what do you have?take two characters and make them fuck.
when is urine a golden shower of life-affirming transgression?your surface is like glass, Story of the Eye. eye see right through it.
i fuck life with my great staring eye.
the eye is a looking-glass and i turn it towards myself.
a series of living symbols and metaphors, profane and sacred acts, bodies devoid of purpose beyond the violence of movement, the slap and tickle of separating and colliding, sex as a sublime sort of personalized violence?
Forgo convoluted pontifications about the concordat between sex, violence and death, around which the Story of the Eye is supposed to revolve, and for which it was praised by big names such as Roland Barthes and Susan Sontag, and read it if you can stomach crass, hallucinatory, vintage sex scenes of people urinating on one another, engaged in blood-spattered sexual orgies, and obsessing with a central metaphor of the eye consistent with other soft, jelly-like, warm and meat-hued objects, to possess and sexualise them.
I don’t think so.On Depravity and CorruptionThe old definition of “obscene” was that sexually explicit material had a “tendency to deprave and corrupt” the reader.What the government feared was that people would enjoy reading porn so much that they would stop going to work.
Not that there needs to be one, but…In my not so humble opinion…YES!Here’s why…What Eye?A lot of the significance of the novel is implied by its title, "Story of the Eye”.Although the first person narrator is a male, sex being what it is, the protagonistic duties are shared pretty equally with Simone, a woman of the opposite gender.
I was told to gently lube the testicles of a history teacher for the first romp—clearly the host was furious with me, as the history teacher was my own father—then invited over for a little frottage against the pelvis of a divorced Cher impersonator.
What an embarrassing night!This novella is nothing like that embarrassing night, except the sex is almost as degenerate.
This edition contains an extremely boring essay by Susan Sontag (as long as the novella itself) and a typically inscrutable one from Roland Barthes.
Μάλιστα μέσα από την καταληκτική σκηνή ενός οργίου, οι γονείς που εισβάλλουν στην κάμαρα και ανακαλύπτουν τα παιδιά τους σε αυτήν την κατάσταση, χαρακτηρίζονται από τον αφηγητή ως «μουρλοί» καθώς είναι ξένοι από το δικό του διεστραμμένο σύμπαν, τους περιφρονεί, οι πράξεις τους είναι τόσο κωμικές και ακατανόητες για τον ίδιο, όσο κι αυτός φαίνεται ως τέρας στα δικά τους μάτια:  «Δε χρειάζεται και μεγάλη προσπάθεια για να φανταστεί κανείς τα επιφωνήματα φρίκης, τις κραυγές απελπισίας και τις υπερφίαλες απειλές των γονέων όταν μπήκαν στο δωμάτιο!
وقتی گاو با آن حرکات سریع و وحشیانه بارها به طرف شنل گاوباز هجوم میبرد و فقط میتواند شاخهایش را به بدن گاوباز بساید و بس، این منظره برای هر تماشاگری یادآور آن یورش مکرر در بازی همخوابگی است.
به همین ترتیب نزدیکی خود به مرگ را هم میتوان حس کرد.
اما این حرکات حیرتانگیز و چشمگیر نادرند.
از همین رو هر بار که اتفاق میافتند هیجان و جنونی تمام عیار میدان را فرا میگیرد و همه میدانند که بعد از این لحظات پرهیجان زنها رانهایشان را به هم میمالندداستان یک چشم، یک داستان دشوار و اروتیکی بسیار غیر متعارف است و
اما از لحاظ حسی و جنسی چنان پذیرای هر آشوب و طغیانی بود که از کوچک‌ترین تلنگری به حواسش ظاهری پیدا می‌کرد حاکی از تمامی چیزهایی که با جنسیت و سکس پیوندی عمیق دارند، چیزهایی مانند خون، هول و هراس ناگهانی و جنایت؛ چیزهایی که سعادت و شرافت بشر را نابود می‌کنند:برگزیده هایی از نظرات باتای در سایت های اینترنتی برای درک بهتر این داستان(view spoiler)[صحنه دیگری، صحنه کنش افراطی ویرانی و گسیختگی و از خود فراروی استدگرسان شناسی عنوان خوبی برای توصیف همه ی آثار باتای است.
اما این میل به اروتیک از کجا نشات می گیرد؟از نظر باتای تمایل عاشق به برقراری صمیمت و نزدیکی با معشوقه همان تمایلی است که فرد به گم کردنِ خویشتن دارد تا در نزدیکی و صمیمیت حل شوداوشو هم سکس را اولین قدم برای رسیدن به فرآگاهی می داند.
Παρασκευή θα τον πάμε για αφαίρεση (κρυψορχία).Γιατί αναφέρω τέτοια λεπτομέρεια απ' την ζωή μου που αφορά τ' αρχίδια του σκύλου μου; Well, η Σιμόν η πρωταγωνίστρια προς το τέλος της ιστορίας ήθελε να της σερβίρουν ωμά αρχίδια ταύρου ενώ παρακολουθούσε ταυρομαχίες, τις θύμιζαν αυγά.
Λοιπόν τι είναι αυτό το βιβλίο που ενώ πολλοί το μισούν μέχρι θανάτου, άλλοι τ' αγαπούν μέχρι να πάθουν καλπάζων διαβήτη; Νομίζω εξαρτάται πώς θα το διαβάσεις, σε τι φάση θα το διαβάσεις, με το τι θα έχεις στο μυαλό σου ενώ το διαβάζεις, μπορεί όλα τα πιο πάνω, ή ίσως και κανένα.Αν το διαβάσεις ως ένα ρεαλιστικό αφήγημα θα νιώσεις ότι διαβάζεις ένα πορνογράφημα με σεξ, υγρά, αίσχη και σεξ.Αλλά πώς γίνεται οι 16χρονοι πρωταγωνιστές να κάνουν όλα αυτά τα πράγματα και να μοιάζει ρεαλιστικό; Ίσως είμαι αφελής σε θέματα εφηβικού σεξ αλλά ήθελα πολλές φορές σχεδιάγραμμα για να δω σε τι στάση ήταν κάθε φορά.
This book was unabashedly, humiliatingly retarded. It's the kind of book that's so famous and then you read it and wonder if someone is pulling a practical joke on you.I've read better fanfic porn.
Read this for my dissertation. As a narrative, it's somewhat messy. As erotica, it's somewhat depraved.As a synthesization of Bataille's theories and worldview, it's a treasure trove.
“And it struck me that death was the sole outcome of my erection, and if Simone and I were killed, then the universe of our unbearable personal vision was certain to be replaced by the pure stars, fully unrelated to any external gaze and realizing in a cold state, without human delays or detours, something that strikes me as the goal of my sexual licentiousness: a geometric incandescence (among other things, the coinciding point of life and death, being and nothingness), perfectly fulgurating.
“And it struck me that death was the sole outcome of my erection, and if Simone and I were killed, then the universe of our unbearable personal vision was certain to be replaced by the pure stars, fully unrelated to any external gaze and realizing in a cold state, without human delays or detours, something that strikes me as the goal of my sexual licentiousness: a geometric incandescence (among other things, the coinciding point of life and death, being and nothingness), perfectly fulgurating.”
As can be inferred from the title, and in the knowledge one is dealing with a work of pornography, it is to be expected that a perverse obsession with a peculiarly specific piece of the human anatomy is given voice to.
Recently I have been thinking, why would people always think about leather, whip, D&S and women being tied up when they think about sexual deviancy?That is so not the whole picture, and the stereotype from above is just so...boring.When you open Story of the Eye, you are in for a rare, exciting and disturbing treat.
The story is one hell of an 'over the top' adventure of sexual deviancy and anarchy.
The events which take place in the book are frightening as well as brilliant and humorous.
I love this imaginative, bold little book.
I truly love it.
Your typical teenage romance, replete with spontaneous orgasms, golden showers, bull testicles, eggs inserted into orifices that eggs are not meant to be inserted, suicide, rape, sacrilege, eroticizing eyeballs, bullfighting and murder. Your body is a temple of filth and sex is slimy, you perverted reader, you.
They just pleasure themselves in total abandon and without any inhibitions.For me, this is mind-boggling but it sends a clear message contrary to what I grew up with, that sex should be done in private because it is shameful almost like saying that sex is dirty.
Here, sex is a primal need and this book seems like a broom that sweeps away the strewn around inhibitions that accumulated on the floor of my conservative childhood.
This became the inspiration for the use of the "eye" in the story and the presence of urine, along with other body fluids, in many of the scenes in the story.
Sick, disgusting and kinky but never boring. It certainly makes an impression. But if it were to be any longer I would start chucking off the stars. Lucky for Mr. Bataille that he kept the story short and writing up to standards. I'm sure if you try hard you could find some social commentary in there and a few metaphors, but it takes an effort to look beyond all the fetish and gore. Besides lewdness itself makes a point here.

Don’t throw up, I dare you!In Simone's hairy vagina, I saw the wan blue eye of Marcelle, gazing at me through tears of urine.
I held the thighs open while Simone was convulsed by the urinary spasm, and the burning urine streamed out from under the eye down to the thighs below…(It's funny how on GR two stars means "it was OK"; there's nothing "OK" about this book.
The text is redeeming, but not in a transcendental way. The moral lacks morality- and as you'll read elsewhere- acts as a precursor to existentialism. My literary friend recommends Emmannuelle by Emmannuelle Arsan as a starting point if not a follow-up to this type of reading. Here's to the dionysian! I'd recommend Caligula as well and then we can have a lecture on sexual disfunctions and decadence!
Georges Bataille is, in the world of literature, a special case: Nietzschean in the soul, blending blithely in his works sex and death, he is the one whom Jean-Paul Sartre declared "unfit for philosophy."A boy with 16 year old dating a girl named Simone whom he falls at first sight in love and together, they end quickly by engaging in very unusual sexual games.
Each obsession takes its true meaning in light of its own analysis.As for the text, written in a summary style, this book, which is outrageous, no longer shocks anyone any more, except perhaps a few chaste souls so much the scenes of sex mixed with urine or an egg seem outdated.
Absolutely insane and incredibly erotic. A fun readAlso, a messy and somewhat noisy video review :phttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zuxm4...
Torn whether to repulse or whether to admit excitement.This book was unlike anything I had read, vividly graphic and subtly gross, yet engaging and literary at the same time.
While I have developed a better understanding of the literary techniques used in this book and could appreciate the author's approach, the unconditional depictions of sexual acts I cannot understand or relate to made this experience more bothersome.
On one hand, I could relate and appreciate the inner turmoil of adolescents trapped in an environment that does not understand them, and their rebellion against structure, convention, and culture of make-believe customs which, albeit superficially, make the fabric of society at that time.
Throughout the novel, the couple are intent on pushing the boundaries, on taking ‘any opportunity to indulge in unusual acts.’ Indeed, one of the most revealing moments is when the narrator attempts to take Simone in her bed and she refuses, because she does not want to be fucked ‘like a housewife or mother.’ Moreover, until close to the end of the novel Simone remains a vaginal virgin; prior to this point, and after it in truth, much of the couple’s sexual activity involves eggs, piss, come facials, and public – mutual and solo – masturbation.There is, therefore, a deliberate avoidance of what might be considered 'normal' or conventional sex.
Therein lies the major problem with Story of the Eye. I could assure you that I am actually a pretty wanton lass and a great consumer of porn, but it won't matter to people who dug this book.
If I didn't dig it (which I didn't), I must be either:a) a fussy, sexless, humorless cold fishorb) too literal-minded and therefore unable to grasp Bataille's deeper philosophical meaningHey, if Story of the Eye turns you on, then you do your thing.
How transgressive of me!The problem with reading SOTE as a novel, besides Bataille's seemingly great love of poo-poo and pee-pee (ha, ha, ha!

Bataille uses that vocabulary to carry out something more ambitious and ambiguous.
Because Bataille manages to this convincing.
And while nothing that occurs here is impossible, everything unfolds in such a suspension of the rules of ordinary life and action, that the narrative events ascend into a symbolic order existing well beyond strict reality.
And to answer my original question again, I find such refined arcane symbolic orders to be highly enjoyable.
This alchemical-symbolic order has such a degree of formal elegance that all the icky sex can barely even be described as icky anymore.
Επενδύστε σε αυτό το βιβλίο, αγοράστε το, ξεκινήστε το και όταν το σταματήσετε (γιατι θα το σταματήσετε, όπως το σταμάτησα κι εγώ), ναι, δώστε λίγο χρόνο στον εαυτό σας.
Βασικά, πρέπει να καταλάβετε, να καταλάβουμε δηλαδή, πως αυτός ο κόσμος προχωράει μπροστά με ασύλληπτους ρυθμούς, αναπτύσεται σε όλα του τα επίπεδα, το σύμπαν (και όχι μόνο το δικό μας), καθημερινά διαστέλλεται γεμίζοντας ασταμάτητα με καινούρια πράγματα, η ζωή είναι μία πέτρα που κυλάει διαρκώς είτε συμμετέχουμε σε αυτή είτε της έχουμε γυρισμένη την πλάτη, η διαδικασία της εξέλιξης συνεχίζεται επ' άπειρον ακόμα και εν αγνοία ή και συνειδητής απουσία μας από αυτή.Με λίγες λεξούλες.
What. Da. Fuq. Did. I. Just. Read...???? Don't pick up this book unless you're a fan of golden showers... I started reading this without reading the blurb or anything, suffice to say I was shocked! In between rather gruesome goings on the writer tries to make himself seem uber intelligent by using needlessly long words. It was just a big clustermug that boiled my brain! Could've been a good tail, but it just fell off a cliff. First one star rating of 2016. :(
My kind of debauchery soils not only my body and my thoughts, but also anything I may conceive in its course, that is to say, the vast starry universe, which merely serves as a backdrop."I associate the moon with the vaginal blood of mothers, sisters, that is, the menstrua with their sickening stench..."Later, talking about another book he had written, the author confessed that he had jerked off naked, at night, by his mother's corpse.Simply the best novel there is under this category.

Crazy, sick, juvenile, blasphemous, insane, refreshing, spontaneous, disgusting, a spit in the face of conservatism. At first I intended to write a proper review but then I realized how hard a task that would be, so humor me and pretend I adequately described it.
