https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/645343.The_Garden_of_Abdul_Gasazi
And while I guess Alan's escapades trying to control Fritz (while he is dogsitting) are to a certain extent a tiny bit amusing, frankly, since Fritz is so very badly behaved and inadequately trained, in my opinion, Miss Hester should really NOT be giving the responsibility for watching over her pet, for taking her dog on walks to anyone but herself (in other words, Miss Hester should not be out and about visiting but at home teaching Fritz some necessary manners, making sure her dog does not bite or attempt to slip his collar whilst being taken for a walk).
“The Garden of Abdul Gasazi” is a true masterpiece full of mystery and magic that children will enjoy for many years.Chris Van Allsburg has done a great job at both illustrating and writing this book that is full of mystery and magic.
Chris Van Allsburg does a great job at making the book extremely dramatic and intense at the same time as most of the book is spent with Alan trying to look for Fritz and encountering the mysterious Abdul Gasazi.
Miss Hester asks young Alan Mitz to spend the afternoon with her naughty dog Fritz.
Alan follows frantically and chases the dog further and further until he finally reaches a large house which belongs to the retired magician Gasazi.
Mr. Gasazi agrees that he has Fritz and takes Alan out to the garden.
What will Alan tell Miss Hester?Van Allsburg creates a lush, beautiful and mysterious world full of flowers and patterns, shadows and light.
It was more fun to ignore the text and just focus on the illustrations to tell the story.
I love the illustrations...I've always been a fan of Van Allsburg's detailed black and white illustrations. I love the naughty dog and the faithful dog watcher who tries so hard to take good care of the naughty dog and to rescue him from the magician Abdul Gasazi. I love that the book leaves you wondering...was Gasazi a magician or was the boy tricked? I also love the illustrations of the garden...what an amazing and beautiful garden!
This is the best book I've read today.
Chris Van Allsburg is incredible.
This is a great tale about Alan Mitz who is dog watching Fritz.
Fritz is a bit mischievous, and they get into an adventure when Alan takes him for a walk.
After meeting Abdul Gasazi, a dog hater, and feeling he had totally lost Fritz, Alan slowly makes his way back to the home where Fritz belongs.
But that's where the twist comes in and the book ends in a mystery.What a great read-aloud book for children 3-12, or older.
And in true Allsburg style, the illustrations are amazing.
I think I like ducks better than dogs. I found Mr. Gasazi a very sympathetic character.
This is a fantasy story that I think could be used as a read- aloud for any elementary school classroom and grade level.
I would use this in my classroom to have a discussion on what my students took from the ending of the story and have them provide evidence on why they think so.
This encourages them to participate in a discussion where they have to use context clues and pay attention to details throughout the story so that they can back up their arguments.
It encourages student creativity and I think students of all age would enjoy the fun story line and characters.
What would you do if you lost a dog in a magician’s garden during his afternoon walk?
Chris Van Allsburg’s first picture book takes the reader through a day dogsitting with the young Alan Mitz.
What happens next is interestingly enough, quite ordinary.It’s one of Chris Van Allsburg’s token skills, presented for the first time; the ability to weave a tight narrative and beautiful illustrations around a fantastical story that’s grounded in realism.
While one might expect the journey through a magician’s garden would be full of surreal images, imaginary creatures, and elaborate designs, it’s instead full of Victorian style structures and douglas firs.
This story tells of a stressful afternoon of dog watching for a young man named Alan Mitz.
The narrative is entertaining and fun to read aloud and while the ending is somewhat predictable, I still really liked the story.
The style of the illustrations was very familiar to us, since we are immersed in Mr. Van Allsburg's other books, but I still really enjoyed the details and appreciated that the story wasn't creepy in any way.This book was selected as one of the books for the March 2018 - Boston Globe-Horn Book Award Picture Book Winners 1975-1982 discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
Fritz takes the boy on an adventure to a beautiful garden that specifically states, "ABSOLUTELY, POSITIVELY NO DOGS ALLOWED IN THIS GARDEN".
Van Allsburg, the author and illustrator, takes readers on an adventure to figure out what happens to Fritz and readers will be left wondering whether magic really does exist.
The themes of this book include responsibility, adventure, and magic.
It would be a great book to use for discussions or reader response writing activities in the classroom.
Students might also want to read this book as part of an author study.
Although I like the idea of blurring the line between fantasy and reality as the author/illustrator has done in this imaginative picture book, the perspective of the illustrations seemed just a tad off to me.
In some of the pictures, Miss Hester just seems to have an oddly proportioned body, which bothered me.
Alan Mitz agrees to take care of her feisty dog, Fritz, while she's visiting a relative.
When the duck flies off with Alan's hat, he knows he'll have to tell Miss Hester what happened and that her dog has flown away.
Caldecott Honor 1980 - Favorite Illustration: When the lady is comforting the boy and the dog is sitting happily in the foreground.
I love the tenderness between the two human figures.This is a fun little tale of a boy who is dog-sitting the mischievous Fritz for the day.
I liked the playfulness of the boy and his dog, and I felt that the drawings, while beautifully detailed and realistic, also held just enough whimsy to make the tale fun and a little magical.
This is a magical tale of Alan, hired to watch Fritz, a wayward, spoiled dog.
When asked about Fritz, Abdul shows Alan a group of ducks.
Choosing the nastiest duck, Alan reaches for the duck and he flies away.Upset that he must return to the owner and try to explain what occurred, he finds Fritz the dog has returned to his original form.Everything Van Allsburg writes and illustrates is magical, and this book is no exception.
In this book there is a boy that is asked to take care of a dog, but when he takes him for a walk the dog escapes into this place where dogs are not allowed.
He is surprised that the magician takes him to some ducks and tells him he turned the dog into a duck.
He left to tell the owner of the dog what had happened but when he got there he was surprised that the dog was back to normal and in his house, it seemed like the magic had worn off.
"The Garden of Abdul Gasazi" makes our dog running away from us seem like fun.
The little boy in the book, Alen, must feel awful when he looses his neighbor's dog and it turns into a duck.
I think it is a little boring and not as creative as Van Allsburg can be.
The book is basically a boy chasing a dog through the garden until he meets the magician and is told that the dog has been turned into a duck.
I was a little disappointed in the story line, but as usual Van Allsburg's pictures were stunning black and white.
Wonderful black and white pencil illustrations and a fascinating story about strange happenings next door.
I loved how detailed Van Allsburg was able to make his illustrations, and how realistic.
One interesting point--the book jacket shows Alan chasing Fritz down a path next to which are some fantastical topiary bushes.
But when I checked Gasazi's garden inside the book, I found no topiary anywhere.
(view spoiler)[ The ending is left somewhat open-ended--did Gasazi actually turn Fritz into a duck, or was he simply playing with Alan when he claimed to?
But a duck grabbed Alan's hat and flew off, and a couple of pages later, Fritz has the hat.
This book has an ending like the movie Inception!
Did or didn't it happen?
Read it and leave me a comment below, letting me know which you think it is!Chris Van Allsburg is so creative!Ages: 5 - 9Cleanliness: there is a magician.
A man smokes a pipe.**Like my reviews?
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
PB-15I liked the story, but loved the illustrations. I had a hard time figuring out a "purpose" or an overall idea of the whole story since the character babysits a dog, ends uo losing him, and then finding out he was turned into a duck. The garden of Abdul Gasazi was illustrated in a very detailed way and I guess the detailed illustrations are what I liked most out of my experience of reading the story.
A boy is dog sitting for a neighbor and while walking the dog, Fritz, they cross a bridge and enter into Mr. Gasazi's garden. The thing is, Mr. Gasazi, a dog hating magician, posts a warning to keep dogs out of his garden...so you can imagine it doesn't go to well. Will Fritz make it out of the garden?The illustrations are brilliant, colorless, but this only magnifies the details and enhances Van Allsburg's storytelling. Great book, especially for older children.
Once again another huh? book, a boy is dog sitting and takes said dog for a walk. They end up outside of a magician's garden with a sign that reads no dogs. The dog runs off and the boy follows. The magician turns the dog into a duck and the suck flies away with the boy's hat in his mouth. The boy walks how worrying about telling the owner that the dog is gone but the dog has come back. After the boy leaves the dog plays with the lost hat.
The twist at the end of this book reminded me too much of the ending of The Polar Express, and I was a little bit disappointed that Van Allsburg expected the same idea to have the same impact twice. It makes me even sadder to realize this book came first, so the gimmick he uses wasn’t even new in The Polar Express! I also wasn’t as impressed by the illustrations as I expected. I wonder if I have grown too familiar with Van Allsburg’s style over the years to feel awed anymore.
I checked this book out because it was supposed to be one of the most beautiful children's books, but I have to disagree. I'm not sure what exactly is supposed to be beautiful about it. The words contained more imagery about Mr. Gasazi's garden than the images themselves did. The cover image is nicer than all those in the book put together. I found it disappointing. It's a little bit cute, but there's just not much to it and I'm surprised it's gotten the acclaim it has.
I have never been so impressed with an illustrator as I am Chris Van Allsburg. How he draws these pictures is beyond me. The Garden of Abdul Gasazi has amazing illustrations that really help you feel like you are actually experiencing the things that are happening in real life. His pictures are so realistic even if they are drawn in pencil. Illustrator Project Book #4
a young boy following a dog goes into a magical garden owned by a magician Abdul Gasazi, who turns his dog into a rabbit.Although this is a story with great imagination, i personally found it boring, and a chore to read. The book took a really long time to get to the interesting part of the story and there went enough illustrations to make up for the long dialogue.
Don't question the children and never stop believing in magic. So there. Love the story and especially his exquisite drawings.
There was a very, very cute twist on the final page, but all in all, a bit of a disappointment. Even the illustrations were only meh.
Breathtaking art! A nice little tale.
Loved the pictures, not so keen on the story. My kids didn't want me to read it again.
Meh.
Van Allsburg’s first book was not my favorite. It was interesting and of course included a hint of magic, but less exciting than some of his other adventures. Illustrations are great as usual.
