https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18016.Mulliner_Nights
The moment she got the picture postcard, she would come over to wherever we were and put you across her knee and spank you with a hair-brush.
It would spoil the honeymoon.’” Gala Night“She was seething with that febrile exasperation which, since the days of Eve, has come upon women who find themselves linked to a cloth-head.”If all that wasn’t cracking enough, this book also features a cat so supercilious that the man looking after it is forced to don full evening-wear every time he deals with it; as well as creating a world where female romantic novelists spout such saccharine nonsense in interviews that those journalists sent to meet them are frequently found afterwards broken and weeping.Brilliant!
So much as been said about this wonderful collection of stories that their is nothing new to add. The two part story with the cat, bloody hilarious. Websters story is a cross between a decadent tale infused with a gothic tale completely turned on its head.The second Cats Will Be Cats is pure slapstick.Enjoy!
I love Mulliner and his inexhaustible supply of nephews, nieces and cousins and their incredible tales. Another gem from Wodehouse.
The man was a genius and one of the great writers of the 20th Century.
If not, then there is something wrong with contemporary writing.
For whatever reason, I find Mulliner Nights my favorite.
All I can tell you is that it is a set of stories where Mr. Mulliner is in his favorite pub and he starts telling these crazy tales.
But all Wodehouse novels are hysterical.
And I strongly suggest all writers study this man's prose work, because he is a real writer.
Wodehouse will teach you.All I know is that the rich are super funny people!
Wow. I LOVED reading this book. Each story in this book is unique and I enjoyed reading them all. Simply awesome. :D Mr. Mulliner, his nephews and cousins never cease to amuse you. I wish The Anglers' Rest was real and I could visit it and give the almighty Mr. Mulliner a much deserved bow. I am smiling even while writing this review, such is the magic of P.G.Wodehouse! Hats off, sir!
42 WORD REVIEW:The stories in this collection read somewhat like unused subplots from Wodehouse’s Blandings Castle and Jeeves & Wooster novels, but in their upgraded state fairly dazzle with insouciance. Wodehouse riffs masterfully on his favourite topic (thwarted engagements), his prose wild and expressive.
I've heard before that P.G Wodehouse is funny, but it wasn't until half a story and a few laughs into the book when I realized just how funny.
As anyone could expect when reading a book of short stories, there were some I liked more than others, but each one had an aspect I very much enjoyed.
Sometimes it was the situations Wodehouse created and other times it was his delivery and clever use of vocabulary which captured my attention.
Also for someone who likes cats, I was very happy to read two stories which featured felines prominently and captured characteristics of their diverse personalities perfectly.
This is collection of nine short stories, all told by Mr. Mulliner to his buddies (entourage) at the Anglers' Rest pub while he sips his hot Scotch and lemon. Each member of his audience is identified by his drink - Pint of Stout, Whisky Sour, Mild and Bitter. The stories are all about Mr Mulliner's relatives (usually nephews) and are triggered by comments made by his friends. The stories are most amusing, as one might expect, often involving hapless males in pursuit of bright young females.This reading of Wodehouse at bedtime is becoming delightfully habit-forming. On to the next!
Nothing deep here, but it was a fun collection of stories (my favorite being "Best Seller" which had such a sweet, happy ending!) and was nicely written and nicely British as well.
I downloaded the Goodreads app, clicked 'Quotes' and one of the first things I saw was the highly-rated quote by Wodehouse 'There is no surer foundation for a beautiful friendship than a mutual taste in literature', which I'd only read a few hours earlier in this very book and thought wholesome, a quite serendipitous coincidence.
As for the book itself he lives up to the hype, only my second Wodehouse, he seems to have had a thing for describing the motion of thrown food, his use of metaphors is astonishing and unlike any other writer I've discovered thus far.
Very witty. Great use of language, after overlooking the obvious colonial undertones of the times. Excellent characterisation: this book is a wonderful study into human psychology through the lens of humour.
I have even read all of the School stories, and a couple of Plum's ill-considered autobiographical writings.
What I have been sedulously avoiding, for reasons that are now unclear to me, are the Mulliner stories, the Oldest Member stories, and Ukridge.
Why not?".This is Plum, working at the height of his powers: of course it's brilliant.
What it boils down to is that I much prefer Plum's novels, or at least his stories which are connected to each other, to his stories.
Putting tabasco in any of your holes not advised.This is a collection of stories told around the fireplace at the Angler's Rest pub by the loquacious but mild-mannered Mr. Mulliner.
Each story features one of his relatives, each with a particular personal quirk or ill-starred circumstance.My fave in this stewpot is "Best Seller." A literary critic chap falls in love, making sure at first his intended has no intention of writing a romance novel.
He returns to her divan later to get an interview for his magazine and finds her incapable of writing another word.
All sweetness and light here. Alas, it is the third and last book of Mulliner's anecdotes.
The main reason for me deciding to read this was the strength of the drunk cat illustration on the front. Needless to say I wasn't disappointed.
Not that we are confined to humans, one of the chief characters in this collection is Webster the cat.Speaking of chivalry this was published in 1933 and provides considerable atmosphere of those long lost days.
I have seen another reviewer put in a quote from each story in her review.
There are some speeches before which dignity melts like ice in August, resentment takes the full count, and the milk of human kindness surges back into the aching heart as if the dam had burst.
Evangeline's 'Oh, Egbert!' had been accompanied by a Niagara of tears.
WHY I CHOSE THIS BOOK: PG wodehouse was recommended to me when I was asking a coworker about something like to listen to after having listened to some really heavy books. REVIEW: this is definitely an amusing book and one not to be taken too seriously. A good palate cleanser IN between some more heavyweight things. You will definitely find yourself chuckling a lot. I particularly liked a bit about the hypnotic powers of a cat. As a cat owner I know the run things.
Mulliner stories are always interesting with unusual topics and characters. Enjoyed reading these short and crisp stories which will lift your mood and provide good humour. Would recommend these stories for one and all
I enjoy Mulliner tales ... Wodehouse is never a feminist, but there are some more retrograde roles for women in a couple of the stories, which made it hard to enjoy unreservedly ... but all in all a great deal of fun.
Another collection of Mr. Mulliner stories. Some of these represent the author at his best, and none are anything less than entertaining. It's strictly a matter of personal preference that I enjoy Wodehouse novels more than the shorter works (excepting the Jeeves stories, of course.)
The style of writing just slays me. And I have to admit, I stole the way Wodehouse would write in minor characters as, "...said a Port and Lemon" for my own novels.
Wodehouse. And cats.Really, what more is there to say?
3.5/5
Very humorous, especially the two cat stories :D
Downright hilarious!
Each chapter is a short story.
Another classic, series of short stories about the Mulliner family told from the snug of The Anglers Rest.
1) It was under $5, 2) The cover has a cat drunk on whiskey on it, 3) I had just read Love Among the Chickens by Wodehouse, which was my first encounter with him, and found him hilarious.
Fortunately, most of the stories fell much closer to the hilarity of the whiskey drinking cat.
However, a couple did fall a bit flat for me, which is why while I greatly enjoyed the book, I wouldn’t say I was totally in love with it.Overall, this is a wonderfully witty collection of short stories held together by an elderly Mulliner who enjoys telling (possibly tall) tales about his family over a pint in the local pub.
Thrown, as you must be, incessantly among loose and immoral Bohemians, you will fund in this cat an example of upright conduct which cannot but act as an antidote to the poison cup of temptation which is, no doubt, hourly pressed to your lips."How can one read this- and so many other sentences just as wonderful as this- and manage to stay silent for fear of strangers deeming one to be slightly cracked?The stories Mr. Mulliner tells his dedicated following at the Angler's Rest revolve primarily around young men (his many nephews) who have a spanner thrown in the works of their love stories, either by their objects of affection themselves, their families, or their pets.
Wodehouse can bring a smile simply through his choice of a name.The sharp wit and repartee is ever present.The simile is raised to the level of art.What is particularly pleasing is the way it feels like the author could sit at a typewriter all day, day after day, and produce page after page of the most perfect prose as easily as he might breathe or eat strawberries.If there are faults in this one, I can’t find them and I don’t really care.
Spot them and please don’t bother to point them out to this reviewer as I would rather keep the memory of pure pleasure with me for as long as I can.Chapter 8.
