https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/860490.The_Case_of_the_Counterfeit_Eye
A guy came to Perry Mason's office with a very unusual problem.
To explain it I (and any reader of this installment) had to learn a lot about artificial eyes in US of early thirties.The info is not boring by the way.
This bloodshot artificial eye was the reason for a visit to a lawyer.
As the high quality ones are easily traceable, the guy was afraid somebody would use the stolen eye to frame him for something.
He was not Mason's biggest fan, and the reason for this becomes apparent in here: the latter made a complete fool of Burger right in the courtroom.
Further complicating matters is another one of Perry's clients, a man with a false eye who hired the services of the renowned criminal lawyer to protect his interests SHOULD he find himself on the list of suspects for a crime he didn't commit.
I didn't think The Case of the Counterfeit Eye had the same polish as the other Perry Mason book I've read but it did have all the courtroom antics and complicated plotting of which the author, Erle Stanley Gardner was renowned.
As is the case with most of these books, the plot is very convoluted and only a wizard like Perry Mason could ever explain it.
He is afraid that his lost eye might turn up at the scene of a murder that has not yet been committed and needs Perry's protection.
Most attorneys, of course, would be completely flummoxed by such a request, but Perry takes it in stride and accepts the case.Within hours a murder will be committed and the prime suspect will be a one-eyed man whose artificial eye is found clutched in the hand of the murdered victim.
3.5 starsEnjoyable cosy mystery delivered by super lawyer Perry Mason. Artful and mischievous as always this plot is pretty complicated building to an excellent conclusion.These stories are fast-paced, addictive and lots of fun.
THE CASE OF THE COUNTERFEIT EYE.
****.I really liked this particular adventure of Perry Mason.
You will learn a lot about glass eyes in this tale – a lot more than you thought existed.
That’s one of the features of a Mason story.
There is always an aspect of the law or of new (at the time) technology that Mr. Gardner is fascinated with and wants to share with his readers.
Anyway…this is a clever tale that moves right along, and manages to introduce a new character who will become one of the stock characters in books to come.
Too many suspects.
Too many red herrings and intertwined motives.
This is the book where Hamilton Burger makes his debut and I was pleasantly surprised to see that he has been shown as a plausible, conscientious, intelligent lawyer.
In most of the books I have read featuring Burger, he was more of a belligerent bull-headed caricature than a Chief Public Prosecutor.
I think, as Mason started enjoying more and more popularity (as a fictional character as well as in the stories),Gardner made the books all about Mason, with every other character playing a kind of second fiddle or a supporting role.
I’ve read Erle Stanley Gardner once before but I’ve never read his Perry Mason books – which is remarkable since (1) I liked the TV show, and (2) my mom had a bunch of them on her bookshelf when I was a kid.
The style is somewhat pulpish and occasionally cornball (such as when Mason introduces himself to people as “I'm Perry Mason, the lawyer”), and sometimes it’s unintentionally funny (honestly, almost everyone who comes to seek Mason’s services in this book seems to expect him to help them without confiding anything to him).
I picked this up as a daily deal. I have never read any of the Perry Mason books, just grew up on the reruns of the TV show.Still i was not prepared for how good this was and just how interesting the character of the detective-lawyer Perry Mason was. The show presented some of this, but once again the book is always better.
I love this series. I have been working towards reading the entire series. I love how old fashioned they are. As a woman it is shocking how they treat and talk to women. Such a different time. Good reminder that things have changed even if it is not perfect.
Still enjoying these. I'm not one to write plot summaries and enough of the reviewers do to make any summary by me superflous. This book marks Hamilton Burger's first appearance and perhaps sets the stage for Sgt. Holcomb's retirement. Perhaps to make the way for Lieut. Tragg.
To follow
Back from the old TV shows, I've often wondered if the name 'Ham' Burger wasn't in the back of Stanley Gardner's mind.
There were a lot of characters, a lot of red herrings, and while it resolved in the end, it just wasn't as good a story as others.
Still, it is the plot itself that requires a lot of mental gymnastics of the reader.
No, in the end, the story just wasn't all that good.
The reasons why the story is weak are in the mind of this reader.
I'd still recommend the book to any one who enjoys Perry Mason mysteries.
Erle Stanley Gardner's famous lawyer Perry Mason is back in "The Case of the Counterfeit Eye." This is one of his earlier stories, which starts with a one-eyed client who has one glass eye.
Recently, I started reading the novels, and these Mason novels just keep getting better.
I really enjoy them; they are good and relatively quick, easy reads.In this story, the one-eyed client claims someone stole his more expensive glass eye and replaced it with a "Counterfeit Eye." He is worried that a crime will occur, and someone will leave the eye, which will be traced back to him.
While there is a lot here that could be better (ergo, my three-star rating), this is still a fun read, especially for those interested in the history of the detective/mystery novel.The archaic qualities are a glimpse into history -- misogyny aplenty, of course, and countless cigarettes -- but also just an interesting of life as it was almost a hundred years ago.
Mason even wears a smoking jacket while alone at home.
It's excessively complicated, and only Perry Mason could make sense of it.
But still, this was fun, and I will be back for more.
This is the first book that introduces Hamilton Burger as the new district attorney. There are a few pages where both Burger and Mason each describes their respective ideas of handling criminal cases. Perry Mason actually explained to Burger if he believes his client to be guilty he would ask them to plead guilty instead of going to trial. I guess this is Erle Stanley Gardner's way to explain to the readers why in almost every Perry Mason book his client is innocent. The story itself is quite interesting.
Not exceptional. The word 'cinch' was used a lot. I want to smile 'lugubriously' in life. And if I am very successful, at work I want to smile 'urbanely'. When asked why this female bluebeard, Hazel Fenwick, does what she does, Perry Mason says it is a kind of a disease- and a phrase I liked very much- 'a mental quirk'.
I'm not sure why I read Perry Mason novels. They are typically slow and lack action. This one is no exception.
None betterErle Stanley Gardner is the best at what he does. Wish they had more here at kindle unlimited always enjoy reading him.
My first Perry Mason book. Enjoyable, in all respects.
Introduces Hamilton Burger!
entertaining mystery...I would have rated it higher if the kindle version hadn't had so many typos.
I love these mysteries. Quick, fun read.
Publishd in 1935, this Perry Mason story had to be one of the first P.M's written by Gardner.
In this book, Perry goes head to head with Hamilton Burger for the first time.
But in the 1930's, lawyers could try whatever they thought they could do to help win their case.
To all lawyers out there....when a client is charged with murder, on the identificaton of only having one eye, LOOK FOR another person with only one eye.I loved the story and the book and Gardner.
The book came from the library and I hope it is not removed or withdrawn any time soon.
A wealthy person in banking sector kills himself and a glass eye is found in the dead body's hand.
Perry Mason is handling a case in which his client has lost his glass eye and was found with the dead body.
Now Mason has to protect his client and the women who was married to the wealthy person.
That wealthy person has a adopted son and a wife, who also is the prime witness of the crime.
Only on the basis of difference in the glass eye, a point apparently completely ignored by the District Attorney, Mason gets away with the case.
A nifty little puzzle that never actually ends up going on trial, wherein I learned a good deal of information regarding the manufacture and wearing of glass eyes.It's also memorable for the introduction of Hamilton Burger, Perry's usual adversary.
He stops by Perry's office, before he's involved in the case in question, to introduce himself as the new DA, noting though Perry seems to use a lot of dramatic tricks in court, they are usually for the purpose of clearing an innocent victim, adding the one thing that would bother him above all others is to find he had convicted someone who was actually innocent.
I sense the beginning of a beautiful friendship.
Another good Perry Mason mystery, though much like the last, the ending is a bit rushed and forced.
While Perry again makes it to court, it's not in an actual trial yet - just in the preliminaries to see if there's enough evidence to bring charges against the accused.
This one has Perry doing a mess o'things he probably shouldn't be doing, and it's hard to understand why he wasn't thrown in jail himself, other than to consider that it was the thirties and the law was different back then.
Well-written as usual, except for the last couple of chapters which, as I've said, seem a bit rushed to me.
This one is pretty great.
lots of fiddling with the evidence and witnesses.
it seems to be the first time Perry Mason meets Hamilton Burger.
They shout back and forth and pontificate in front of the very annoyed judge.
You can't get upset about Perry's lack of honesty here or you just won't enjoy it.
The original story also involves all kinds of glass eyes.
In the TV version they changed the story to be I believe a "toupee" instead of eyes and not as much pontificating, or illegal maneuvers by Perry Mason.
This version is definitely better!
Notable for being Perry's first run-in with Hamilton Burger, this has to be one of the earlier Mason stories.
This one opens with a brother and sister coming in for help.
The brother, an insouciant ass, is being blackmailed and his sister is insisting he ask Perry for help.
As Perry works the case, the blackmailer, who of course has no end of enemies, turns up dead.
And then its a race against the cops who are trying to pin the murder on another client of Perry's, the man with one eye who is looking for the bloodshot fake that has been stolen from him.
Kindle Owners Lending Library I'm really glad that I discovered that most of the Perry Mason mysteries are available free via KOLL, I'm enjoying them quite a bit, especially since it means I can only read one each month, so there's enough time between books to not be bothered by the formulaic writing. I meant to read them as close to in order as possible, but I downloaded my June book when I wasn't near an internet-capable device, so I couldn't look up which was next. It was very loosely placed in time, so it didn't much matter.
#6 in the Perry Mason. A unique plot twist elevates this 1935 series entry.Perry Mason series - Peter Brunold has had his bloodshot false eye stolen. Harry McLane has embezzled funds from Hartley Basset and won't reveal the name of his accomplice. Basset winds up dead, an apparent suicide except for the presence of 3 guns - 2 of which were fired. Clutched in Basset's hand is a bloodshot eye. DA Hamilton Burger makes first appearance.
