https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28257707-the-subtle-art-of-not-giving-a-f-ck
Anything with curse words on the cover picks my interest :P The first half of it was my favorite, the aim of this book is to help the reader to think a little bit more clearly about what they’re choosing to find important in life and what they’re choosing to find unimportant.These are few of my favrite quotes in this book:The desire for more positive experience is itself a negative experience.
The world is constantly telling you that the path to a better life is more, more, more—buy more, own more, make more, fuck more, be more.
Posted at HeradasSort of an anti self-help book, meaning that it actually contains a useful philosophy, which is (mostly) just Buddhism/Stoicism dressed up a little for millennials. It's not as douchey as the title would have you think, and it's very entertaining. There's a lot of cross-over with Carl Sagan's The Demon-Haunted World, surprisingly. A lot of good advice for those, like me, who over-stress themselves about mostly nothing at all. I really loved it; I'll probably circle back to it a few more times in the future.
I definitely do think this book has something to offer.For example, it reminded me that I need to stop hoping my sister and I form a BFF Sweet Valley High-esque sister friendship and accept the fact that we are 35+ fucking years old and it's just not gonna happen.And that's okay.
Not gonna lie though, right or wrong, this book definitely appealed to my snarky, crass kind of humor, reminding me once again that I apparently have the personality and sense of humor of a dude.
I started out liking this book, I really did. By the time I was halfway in, his smug attitude about things he frankly knows jack shit about were getting on my nerves. He made some excellent points, all of which have been made countless times by other, more competent writers. Read Sartre, Camus, Siddhartha by Herman Hesse, and various Buddhist texts instead. Regurgitating Eastern philosophy and existentialism while swearing a lot only gets you so far. I stopped reading and returned this book.
What a load of self-indulgent, sexist codswallop.
Have you ever been in a bar and had a know-it-all tell you everything you need to know about life without any evidence to back up what he's saying? That's what this book felt like.
I'm not actually done yet, but this book is becoming more problematic by the page.
But when the example you use to illustrate this fact is a 1980's feminist who falsely accused her father of abuse and you follow up with "in the early 1980s and 1990s hundreds of innocent people were wrongly accused of sexual violence under similar circumstances.
The casual reader who is not familiar with sexual violence and rape and abuse could easily walk away with the impression that survivors of sexual assault often make up their assault.
You don't need to read this book.

Definitely written by and for straight, white, entitled males. I have no fucks to give for this book or the author.
And I would like to thank him for answering quite a lot of fears of mine with such a dose of raw, refreshing, honest truth.The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F*ck was both personally relevant and entertaining.Here are a few pieces that helped me and then some:“The key to a good life is not giving a fuck about more; it’s giving a fuck about less, giving a fuck about only what is true and immediate and important.”“Because when you give too many fucks—when you give a fuck about everyone and everything—you will feel that you’re perpetually entitled to be comfortable and happy at all times, that everything is supposed to be just exactly the fucking way you want it to be.
I'd review this book but I just don't... What's the phrase?You can buy the book here.
Life will not give you a happy ending.
And nothing you do will change that.Ok, granted, that doesn't sound awesome.But the point is, if you stop trying to live for some future Happiness High, prioritize what means the most to you now, and live with a fearless attitude towards the future?
Then you're going to be much more content (and yes, happy) than someone who is constantly trying to measure up to unrealistic goals they've set in order achieve a sense of fulfillment.The end.The book itself is fairly short and Manson's voice isn't terribly annoying.Read it or not.
I knew after the first chapter that I probably wasn't the intended audience for this book.
Most of it was sort of a "duh" for me, but I continued on in hopes I would learn something new...WOW, this author is SO self-indulgent.
He misses no opportunity to remind us about what a complete "fuckboi" he was in his twenties.
The problem with this is that his tone (and the fact that he brings it up over and over and over and over again) makes it sound like it is almost a point of pride rather than something to be remorseful about.
I don't read self-help.
I simply don't believe in the self-help genre.
That may seem harsh but its just my opinion and you are free to ignore it.Since I don't read self-help, you may be asking "Erin, Why did you read this book?
I'm doing the Popsugar 2017 Reading challenge and needed to read a book from a genre I don't usually read.
As you can see if you look at my book shelf I pretty much read every genre.
So I narrowed it down to 3 genres: Self-help, Christian, or Amish Romance.
Popsugar 2017 Reading Challenge: Bestseller from a Genre I Don't Normally Read.
He is probably having a great old laugh at the fact that his mantra `dont try` has resulted in an awful written book, full of cliches, calling reader `dumbass`, referring to us wanting to feel jennifer aniston`s t#ts , and bigging himself up generally.
Don't make this mistake again!!!Ah, the money probably brings him little happiness.
He probably in dire need of therapy or funds to hire ladies resembling Friends characters or writing classes.
All is well with the world and I am happy these are much needed things my contribution can go toward.All's ok now.
4 stars! This book wasn't only about giving no fucks, it was about giving fucks about only the important things. If you're going to read it, I would recommend the audio book. I thought the narration was great and it was highly entertaining and made me laugh out loud more than once!!
When I first heard this, I mistakenly thought it was akin to “screw it” or “I don’t care” but I think this is more similar to the serenity prayer and also what Manson is talking about.I learned years ago that I cannot help or fix everything and to even try is unfair to me, the people I most care about and ultimately the people I am trying to help also.
Spread yourself too thin, care too much, give a f*** about stuff that is beyond your reach, and you’re setting yourself up for failure.Manson steers clear of religion for the most part (he does reference Buddhism a few times) and most of his self-help is philosophical in nature.
you think you're getting a light, irreverent lifestyle/self-help book, but then it's actually just a few good ideas taken from Buddhism and then mixed in with conservative nonsense about "snowflakes," mixed with some casual misogyny and backdoor bragging. A book only a white straight man with rich parents could write.
الكتاب لطيف لمن يبالي، وأنا لا أبالي خالص والله
I'm not one for self-help books, but this one spoke to me: "The desire for more positive experience is itself a negative experience.
And, paradoxically, the acceptance of one's negative experience is itself a positive experience." I don't know how to review this book without typing out the whole book, so I'm going to try something different: to be brief.
However, Mark Manson's life is not mine.
Then, he took his own personal realizations about life and shared them in this book, which in turn helps me and others.
I have mixed emotions on this. I was totally into reading it and it seemed great at first, but truthfully, for me, the best chapters were the last two. It's a positive message, but glad I didn't pay for it as it felt repetitious to me. I listened to it on audible and enjoyed the narrator. 3 stars...
Not a terrible thing, in itself, but a bit like seeing a play where all the actors are naked, the swearing loses its impact after about the third fuck, and then you’re just left with the advice.I don’t normally read self-help books – the problem I have with them is the first word, more than the second.
So, pick what you are going to be enraged about and skip the outrage.This isn’t a terrible book, in fact, most of the advice is quite reasonable.
والنتيجة ممتازة، فقد غفوت قبل انتهائه ☺ لكنني عدت واكملته صباحاً.- انا لا اقتنع بكتب التحفيز الشخصي والبحث عن السعادة والإيجابية في الحياة والى ما هنالك من عناوين فضفاضة، لأن الإنسان هو تجربة بحد ذاته، وكل تجربة تختلف عن الأخرى، وما يناسب انسان لا يناسب انسانا آخراً.- فكرة تقبل الفشل فكرة وجودية، لأن شعور الفشل يحطم الناس ويحولهم الى ضعفاء او جبناء في مواجهة الحياة..
- معظم ما جاء في الكتاب سيكتسبه الإنسان بالتجربة الشخصية، وما النجاح الا مجموعة تراكمات لتجارب فاشلة.- العالم غرق في المادية، والكثير من الأولويات هي كماليات بالفعل لكن التطور صيرها اولوية.
There are multiple layers to it, and the more you peel them back, the more likely you’re going to start crying at inappropriate times.
- If you’re stuck on a problem, don’t sit there and think about it, just start working on it.
Even if you don’t know what you’re doing, the simple act of working on it will eventually cause the right ideas to show up in your head.
All in all I’ll just recommend this to all my non-reader friends and to you, my wonderful Goodreads people, because I loved it and I want you to read this too!
I think The Subtle Art... might have had more impact upon me if I was 20-something instead of 59-years-old. The language isn't really an issue (it just becomes another word that doesn't even seem to have much meaning); it's more that Manson is repetitive and doesn't offer anything original that most people haven't learned for themselves in a few decades of experience. For me, the same ideas are expressed much more elegantly, cogently, and thoroughly in The Antidote: Happiness for People Who Can't Stand Positive Thinking.
ولو استمثر المرء وقته للصراع مع كل تحدّي يواجهه وفي كل مجالات الحياة فسيتشتّت ويتمزّق ويعيش في قلق.
وعلى العكس تمامًا: لو قرّر المرء أن يتفرّغ فقط للتحدّيات التي لها علاقة بقِيَمه وما يُغليه فسيتمكّن من أن يعيش تجربة غنية ذات معنى، وأن يشعر بالرضى في آخر المشوار.
لذلك: على المرء أن يختار التحديات ذات المعنى التي يجب أن يستثمر وقته فيها وعليه تجنّب التحديات التي ينبغي ألا يكترث لها.
The point isn’t to get away from the shit.
The point is to find the shit you enjoy dealing with.”“The desire for more positive experience is itself a negative experience.
Well, that was different.I’ve been seeing this book consistently on the Amazon’s Most Read charts.
I like to browse this list because it shows you what people are actually reading instead of just what people are buying.I find the list more useful than other bestsellers’ list because it tells me which books are engaging people, after all, we’ve all picked up a title and abandoned it after a few pages because it wasn’t interesting or compelling.So, I went ahead and borrowed it from the library.
This book offers a is a zero-nonsense approach to self-help concepts.
I’ve heard most of it before but the author delivers the message in a concise, sorry-if-it-hurts, straight-forward way.I found some of the advice helpful and I’m glad I read it.
☠ DNF at 29% By the end of chapter 1, I was OD'ing on the word fuck.
Mission accomplished and stuff!P.S. I'm so joyfully, blissfully happy I DNFed the fuck fish out of this one before getting to the sexist bullshit.
Hadn't I displayed such amazing powers of prescience and precognition and stuff, the murderous crustaceans would have no doubt been slightly unleashed on a certain person who, come to think of it, probably would not have given half a quarter of a fuck about it, because he is so wonderfully detached like that.
Oh, and by the way:(view spoiler)[You're welcome.
(hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Supongo que parte de la culpa es mía, que he visto una portada y un títulos llamativos y me he dejado llevar por el marketing.A lo mejor hay personas a las que este libro les ayuda a mejorar su vida y que les abre la mente a nuevos horizontes y ¡Ey pues genial!
Me alegra que alguien pueda disfrutar de la experiencia de leer este libro, pero no es mi caso por 3 motivos.1.
3. Los chascarrillos y comentarios RANCIOS y continuos que además son completamente innecesarios y que transmiten una serie de valores con los que no me puedo sentir identificada.Este libro no es para mí.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestPsychological snake oil for the pseudo intellectual.Man, reading this book was so frustrating, because I'd heard so many good things. Some people told me that this book was life-changing, game-changing, and then one of my co-workers gave it to me and I thought, "Cool, bring it on. I'm ready to hand out fuck-wafers like it's time for the Sunday Communion of Nobody-Gives-A-Damn." After reading this book, I've come to the conclusion that the p
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestPsychological snake oil for the pseudo intellectual.Man, reading this book was so frustrating, because I'd heard so many good things.
Then he brags about how he likes to tell his wife when she doesn't look good, and how much she appreciates this gaslighting, and how few men would dare to do this amazing thing that he is doing (telling her she looks like shit, according to him).
