https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/735572.The_Secret_of_Skeleton_Island
Ich glaube am besten hat mir gefallen, dass Justus erkältet ist und sich ärgert, an den meisten Spaßigen Sachen nicht teilnehmen zu können.
Oh, und natürlich die ganzen vielen viel zu altmodischen Ausdrücke die sich durch die ganzen alten Bücher ziehen.
Den Fall selbst fand ich nicht so spannend, er hat mich irgendwie nicht so richtig mitgenommen.
Natürlich kannte ich ihn ja schon durchs Hörspiel aber auch so ist einem eben die ganze Zeit klar, dass der griechische Junge, den alle außer den drei Detektiven verdächtigen, nicht der Schuldige sein kann.
The story plays out well, though the ‘mystery’ itself is fairly clear, but it has a nice idea of atmosphere and the scuba sequences are very well handled.
This doesn't detract, indeed it adds an unusual air to the mystery, but it was something I'd forgotten between the re-reads.2018 update - I completely agree with the 2013 update, a well played out mystery (even if it’s solved fairly easily) with some great set-pieces (I love the Sally sequence and the bit below The Hand is very well done) and social comment.
With a name like that, its got to be good, right?We had the usual ghosts along with some thieves up to no good.
Another boy their own age was introduced, this time a Greek lad.
It seems as though having an international boy their own age show up is a trope in this series (Spanish, Japanese, Greek etc.) which is fine as it gives the stories a metropolitan flavor.As I've said before, nostalgia fuels this series, so my ratings are probably a bit biased.
If you like YA mysteries though, this is a great series to read.
This series is just cute. I figured out what was happening before the Investigators did, but Jupiter did have a cold that slowed him down and I feel fine :)
A haunted amusement park on a coastal island that used to be a base for pirates – what’s not to love?
To get around to the places they need to investigate, they either need to ride bikes, use the car they won the use of for 30 days in a contest, or ask a couple of workers at the Salvage Yard, owned by First Investigator Jupiter Jones' aunt and uncle, to drive them around in one of the old beat up trucks from the salvage yard.
The Three Investigators solve cases the old-fashioned way: hard work and then Jupiter deduces the solution from a bunch of strange clues that seem to puzzle everyone else.
It all seems very Hardy Boy-ish for a Three Investigators story.Now this is still a very good book and it is enjoyable to read.
I have read these guys when I was young. In the same company as the Hardy Boys, Nancy Drew era. Yah I m that old. Back to this book, it was a fun read going back to your past with the 3 investigators. The plot felt the same as it does with such books, I can't believe I was so gullible back then, when I thought the plot was just unbelievable... bt then again, it isn't such a bad book to read. I enjoyed myself running alongside the boys as they try to discover the secret of the skeleton island...
trio detektif diminta untuk menyelidiki kasus di pulau Tengkorak yang terkenal dengan kisah penampakan hantu carousel.
di pulau tersebut akan diadakan pengambilan film dengan setting carousel & coaster di taman bermain yang terbengkalai, sayangnya kru film tidak dapat menjalankan proses shooting karena mengalami banyak gangguan, banyak terjadi sabotase dan pencurian.
kedatangan trio detektif pun tidak disambut dengan ramah oleh penduduk lokal, mereka menganggap para pendatang asing ini datang untuk mencari dan menguasai harta karun peninggalan bajak laut.
ini buku kedua yang aku baca setelah misteri kurcaci gaib, menurutku buku ini lebih menarik, cerita petualangannya dapet banget, apalagi pas adegan Pete, Bob dan Chris menyelam mencari harta karun.
The Three Investigators is a juvenile detective series published in the 60s, 70s, and 80s that spans about 43 books.
They feature three teenage boys who mostly investigate paranormal type stuff that they debunk (somewhat like Scooby-Doo) or other abnormal crimes that the police do not handle.
I discovered these books in the library during middle school and promptly read them all.
The boys visit an island in order to help Alfred Hitchcock solve a mystery there.
Overall, it was OK though I'm getting tired of these Scooby-Doo like mysteries.
Again, this book is intended for a middle school audience though.
Not as good action wise or mystery wise as others in the series.
The solution to the main mystery was more heavy-handed and was compounded only by the dumb decision to send Pete and Bob alone at the climax instead of telling police for fear of adults getting angry.
But overall I've found this book and the more recent one of the midgets underwhelming.
Also the author follows a lot of stereotypes with characters like the Greek Chris, the previous book's Spanish/Japanese/Chinese/etc that I'm not crazy for.
The stuttering parrot and Jupiter's character are still my favorite highlights of the series.
In this book the Three Investigators solve a case rather far from home.Bob and Pete play prominent roles in this book, often getting into trouble without Jupiter.Chris is the 'character of the week' and he is very well written.
You really feel for him when he talks about how his dad is ill and the situation they're in.
It's of the great qualities he has.The fact that the boys like and respect each other is a great quality that the series as a whole has.
I love this genre—a good, old-fashioned, family-friendly “whodunnit.” Campy?
Sure.
Do I care?
No. In fact, I like it.
I love stories that offer mystery and intrigue and a bit of danger without assaulting my soul.
The most popular example of this genre is the Hardy Boys series, which I love.This was my first dive into Hitchcock’s Three Investigators, and though it doesn’t measure up to the Hardy Boys, it has all of the same genre elements—mystery, danger, adventure.
The pencil-drawn illustrations are an attractive addition, and the inclusion of Hitchcock as a character in the story is a nice piece of meta.
Das Buch hat jetzt 2,5 Sterne von mir bekommen. 2 waren zu wenig, 3 zu viel ^^'
The boy visit a haunted island and find a new friend. Excellent story
Robert Arthur is simply the best storyteller of his time for the mystery genre. These early T3I books are terrific.
good. they're all good.
I thought this was one of the better ones of the series. Jupe isn't as annoying as he sometimes is with all his knowledge though he is sidelined from a lot of the action because of a cold.
Sebenarnya baru kali ini baca Misteri Pulau Tengkorak, walaupun edisi lamanya sudah beredar 20 tahun lebih yang lalu, saya baru selesai membacanya dengan edisi baru, cover yang berbeda.
Pete juga dapat bertemu dengan ayahnya yang ikut terlibat sebagai kru film di Pulau Tengkorak itu, namun kedatangan mereka sebagai detektif tentu harus dirahasiakan.
Tentu saja isu harta karun itu bukanlah suatu isapan jempol, karena memang pernah terjadi ketika bajak laut jaman dulu pernah membuang harta karunnya di sekitar pulau tengkorak.
dan siapa pencuri yang sebenarnya?Tentunya yang pernah membaca buku ini tahu jawabannya, sulit juga menebak siapa pelakunya, tapi untunglah Jupiter sangat pintar dan dapat menemukan siapa pelakunya.
The Greek boy, Markos, is pretty much a retread of Carlos from The Mystery of the Stuttering Parrot, the youth taking care of his invalid father, and no mother (with a little of Hamid from The Mystery of the Whispering Mummy thrown in).
Jupiter Jones is once again somewhat sidelined, this time by a cold, giving Pete and Bob and __guest star__ Markos a chance to do all the physical stuff.
Maybe it__s the setting__an island off the eastern coast of the U.S., with its abandoned amusement park.
Das ursprüngliche Zuhause dieser Rezension ist der WortWelten-Blog: http://wort-welten.blogspot.de/ Zusammenfassung:Als Peters Vater den drei Fragezeichen von seinen Dreharbeiten auf Skeleton Island berichtet - und von der Sabotage, die dort betrieben wird - ist es für Justus, Peter und Bob fast nebensächlich, dass er den Jungen anbietet, einen kurzen Film über die drei Detektive zu drehen, wie sie beim Tauchen nach einem Schatz suchen.
Doch ausgerechnet Chris steht im Verdacht, am Filmset zu klauen und den Dreh zu sabotieren - und nur die drei Detektive glauben an seine Unschuld ...Fazit:Ein absoluter Klassiker.
Als ich das Buch bei Medmops entdeckte, musste es einfach bei mir einziehen.
Los tres investigadores son entrañables y transmiten los valores clásicos de amistad y compañerismo pero tienen también defectos y meten la pata.
La historia es entretenida y bastante interesante y me ha gustado mucho la ambientación y el mundo del cine.
En general es una buena lectura veraniega con expediciones de buceo, cuevas submarinas y tesoro pirata incluidos que me ha gustado más que La isla del tesoro de RL Stevenson.
Es muy parecido a ver un episodio de cualquier serie de dibujos animados de misterio tipo Scooby Doo o Archie y sus misterios pero con protagonistas más jóvenes.
I read this book when I was in grade school, about 8 or 9 years old.
Because It's the book that starts my reading habits, as I come from a country with almost no reading tradition.Even when that was the last time I read the book I can still remember how the story went.
Jupe, Pete, and Bob with the help of a local boy trying to solve mysteries about Spanish treasures scattered around an island.I can't believe I still remember that as I type this review.
It's definitely recommended, and I think I'll visit my local library to read this again if they still have it.
Membaca ini mengingatkan gue bahwa ada kepercayaan anak kecil memiliki kemampuan lebih baik dalam membedakan orang jahat dan baik dibanding orang dewasa.Membuat gue bertanya2 kalau hal ini benar, mengapa anak kecil lebih bisa membedakan orang jahat dan baik dan mengapa kemampuan tersebut menghilang saat sudah dewasa?Tapi gue juga mikir, untuk beberapa kasus, anak kecil bukannya lebih mudah di bohongi ya?Hmmmm....
This is the second in this series that I've read (#6), like a kind of American "Five Finder Outers", a younger Hardy boys. I think the other one (perhaps "The Mystery of The Vanishing Treasure") wasn't as good. I have another to consume some evening.Obviously for younger readers (8 to 10?), there is lots of action and the plot isn't too improbable. Originally written in 1960s? It's aged well (Mine is 1983 print). I'll try it out on my eldest grandson.
Trio Detektif kali bertugas menjadi bintang film :D. Sebagai trio penyelam di pantai Skeleton Island. Pulau yang dulunya menjadi sarang bajak laut. Namun sejak awal mereka diwanti-wanti bahwa di pulau bajak laut itu tidak ada harta karunnya sama sekali. Eh toh akhirnya trio detektif memecahkan misteri tentang harta karun juga. Dua harta karun malah! Walaupun harta dari sang bajak laut tersisa tak begitu banyak. Sudah bertahun-tahun tersapu ombak, dibawa arus pasang.
A good entry in the Three Investigators series. Alfred Hitchcock arranges for the boys to appear in a shot about scuba diving for treasure on an island chain off the Carolinas, where pirates used to operate. The islands are also reputed to be haunted.Of course, the boys stumble onto a mystery and find themselves in danger, but manage to solve the puzzle. A good book, but not quite to the standard of the best of this series.
The Three Investigators meet Treasure Island. Robert Arthur continues his series of novels for older children with his take on the buried pirate treasure. While you can see the solution to the mystery from the moment the first clues are introduced, this is one of the better books in the series. He relies much less on a deus ex machina device to reveal the plot and creates quite a sense of tension as the story reaches its climax.
This has been my favorite of this series so far. In this book the three investigators leave California for an island off the coast of Florida where Pete's dad is working on a movie set. With a name like Skeleton Island people have been scared off the island for years, and the investigators set out to find out why. In the end they help a local boy and his family.
If I remember correctly, this was the first book I ever red - from then I was hooked on Three Investigators series for a couple of years. It is hard to rate this book, because of the sentimental value, and besides I was learning to read on this stuff. I think this is a great book for 6 year old or so, I can definitively recommend it (^_^)
