https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/198688.Emily_s_Runaway_Imagination
I loved this book so much, I have no idea why I was so resistant to reading it.
I had to be dragged kicking and screaming to Ramona as well, I suspect because the first Cleary I ever read was one of those dreadful teenage romance things, and I read it at my most cynical, disaffected and obnoxious.
So my default response to Cleary is "Oh, I hate her" but in reality, I mostly love all the books she wrote.
Oh, how I loved Emily.
Even people who think they hate Beverly Cleary.
Especially people who think they hate Beverly Cleary.
THE SUNDAY FAMILY READI was in a bad mood when I started reading this book, about a girl who is always being told that she lets her imagination run away with her.
Emily's cousin, who has lately read Black Beauty three times in a row and thinks it the most wonderful book ever, is coming for a visit from Portland, where she lives with her well off parents.When Emily tells her mom she wants to bleach the horse, Mom just tells her to follow carefully the directions on the bottle.
Although at times it strays away from the main plot in ways that don't feed back into it, this is really quite a lovely story. Well written, colorful characters, and, if you're familiar with the time period, an excellent snapshot of the 20s. I also love the main idea, a small town gaining a library due to the idea of one girl. I'm just dying to know more about Pete Ginty! He helps and teases in spite of his grumpy exterior - what is his story? Ah, well. The rest is a good read.
The Light Flaky Pie Crust chapter is probably my favorite, but The Hard-Times Party is a close tie. I made my own version of Emily's valentine once, and the entire plot centers on opening and sustaining a public library. What more could a Beverly Cleary devotee ask for?I have this original hard cover edition now, but growing up I had the Dell Yearling cover with Emily Cloroxing a horse. I'm pretty sure it was one of the two books I was allowed to choose for my annual cross-country flight to my California grandparents.
เรืองราวของเดกหญิงวัยประถมคนหนึงเทาทีอาน เราไมไดรูสึกวาเอมิลีมีจินตนาการมากกวาเดกๆ ในวัยเดียวกันทีไดอานพบจากหนังสือเลมอืนๆ นะเธอเปนเดกทีมีจินตนาการธรรมดาคนหนึงแตสิงทีพิเศษและความนาสนใจของหนังสือเลมนี (สำหรับเรา)อยูทีการกอกำเนิดของหองสมุดประจำเมืองมากกวาเรืองนีคลายๆ กับวาจะถูกเขียนขึนจากประสบการณสวนหนึงในชีวิตจริงของผูเขียนดวยคะสนุก นารัก และชวนฝัน .. โดยเฉพาะคนทีรักหนังสือและโดยเฉพาะคนทีชอบเขาหองสมุดเมือตอนเดกๆ คะ :)
เรื่องราวของเด็กหญิงวัยประถมคนหนึ่งเท่าที่อ่าน เราไม่ได้รู้สึกว่าเอมิลี่มีจินตนาการมากกว่าเด็กๆ ในวัยเดียวกันที่ได้อ่านพบจากหนังสือเล่มอื่นๆ นะเธอเป็นเด็กที่มีจินตนาการธรรมดาคนหนึ่งแต่สิ่งที่พิเศษและความน่าสนใจของหนังสือเล่มนี้ (สำหรับเรา)อยู่ที่การก่อกำเนิดของห้องสมุดประจำเมืองมากกว่าเรื่องนี้คล้ายๆ กับว่าจะถูกเขียนขึ้นจากประสบการณ์ส่วนหนึ่งในชีวิตจริงของผู้เขียนด้วยค่ะสนุก น่ารัก และชวนฝัน .. โดยเฉพาะคนที่รักหนังสือและโดยเฉพาะคนที่ชอบเข้าห้องสมุดเมื่อตอนเด็กๆ ค่ะ :)
This might be one of my new favorite kids books.
I like the way the story was structured: each chapter was its own episode, but there was an arc throughout the whole book.
So she and her family keep thinking of different ways to raise money, such as a "hard times party" where everyone dresses up like hobos and donates some cash.Chapters like that are what made the book so unique.
Of course, my favorite chapter would have to be the one where Emily tries to bleach her horse in order to make it a "snow white steed".
This book has aged well since I read it as a child.
Emily's small Oregon town of Pitchfork is a good place to live, but it is sadly lacking in one regard: it needs a library.
Emily hears of the riches of the Portland library from her city cousin, and longs to read Black Beauty, and other wonderful-sounding books.
Her mother decides that Emily is right, and sends away to the State Library for help.
Sort of a Henry Huggins story with a female protagonist, readers should enjoy this gently humorous book about small town life in the 1920s.
I would give it 3-4 stars but the kids voted 5 this morning on the drive.It was so funny, I just finished reading an article about Why British tell better Children's Stories compared to Americans, and it came down to we use moral realism in the US and the Brits use fantasy.
A slice of life story about a girl in the rural west in the early 1900s.
Kids said their favorite parts were the horse, hard times party and scary story night.After starting, I truly thought it would too slow/old/seeming to lecture for the five kids (K to 4th), but they all really enjoyed it!
I have such memories of re-reading this over and over as a child. I think I was fascinated with the era Emily lived in. I desperately wished that I wore bloomers, lived in a small town, and attended "Hard-Times Parties". (Actually, I did have an unofficial Hard-Time party once with my brothers. The only thing I remember about, though, is that I wore my old, somewhat ragged nightgown that my grandmother made for me years before. *sigh* Those were the days.)
Trying to read this book aloud, we could understand our daughter's frustration. We love Beverly Cleary and were excited to introduce her to a new author. This was a poor choice. Although we stopped reading with our daughter, we kept reading until the end. There are some sweet moments, but the story does not fit with the title or the description on the back cover.To read our full review, go to The Reading Tub®.
Read this book to my girls. They weren't necessarily asking to read it every night, but it was a fun story.
The boys and I enjoyed this book!
My 9yo says, "Wonderful!"
This book takes place in a time when most modern conveniences had not been invented yet.
It is kind of like the Little House on the Prairie books in that regard.
There are kids that will like this book, but in a world were technology plays such an important roll in our everyday lives, I'm not sure some kids would even understand what is happening.
She seems to over think things all the time.
Especially good for kids that like the Little House on the Prairie series.
Piper and I have been reading this book forever, it seems like.
I ordered it because I remember my 2nd grade teacher reading it to us; most memorable to me was the part where she wanted to impress her cousin from the big city (Portland, Oregon), so she bleached her horse.It's the story of a young girl in Pitchfork, Oregon, in the early part of the 20th century.
She also lets her imagination run away with her.There's also a Chinese man named Fong Quock, who calls her dog Prince "Plince," which Emily unintentionally copies, and then spends the rest of the book being embarrassed about.
I feel like the book is very kind to Fong Quock, but still....something about it just didn't sit right.
I loved Beverly Cleary books as a child but never heard about this one.
Listened to the audiobook with my daughters (aged 4 and 7).
Compared with other Cleary books, this one struck me as slower and more episodic, more like a collection of stories than a novel.
Or a novel about forming a town library, with several unrelated episodes scattered throughout.
As a mother and a library fan, I teared up at a few points, but overall it was a little slow for me.
My 7-year-old loved it, though, and always asked to listen to "more Emily" in the car!
Beverly cleary has done it again!!! I love her books and this one isn't different! It was a funny book and it kinda interests me the same way little house books do. I love reading about how times use to be!
Beverly Cleary was one of my favorite childhood authors but somehow I'd missed this one as a kid. I found it had all her usual charm and sprightly storytelling. Unfortunately, when I tried to read it to my 7-year-old daughter, she murmured the shopworn boring. Kids these days.
3.5 starsThis was a cute story, but some chapters were better than others. A few were very funny, others just mildly amusing. This inconsistency brought my rating down a bit, but my nieces (ages 8 and 10) said they loved it. And, after all, it was written for children! :)
This book is just not my style - quite different than other Cleary books.
This book was a very entertaining book. I enjoyed her runaway imagination very much, now I think I have a runaway imagination.
I loved Beverly Cleary as a child, don't know why I never read this one. (I'm assuming the library didn't have it.) It was cute, I'm sure I would have loved it at the time.
my favorite part was when they got the library in their town. My least favorite part was how eveeryone laughed at all of Emily's mistakes.
The hard times party was hilarious! Cute little story.
One of my childhood favorites.
I read this book when I was a child and decided to read it to my 11 year old daughter. We both loved it!
it was a good book
A childhood favorite!
This girl BLEACHED HER HORSE! What can I say...just read it!
I found this book as I was cleaning out some boxes. I had always enjoyed reading Beverley Cleary books when I was a child. It was fun rereading these books all over again
