https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30652.Marx_s_Concept_of_Man
دوستانِ گرانقدر، همانطور که از عنوانِ کتاب پیداست، این کتاب به بررسی سرشتِ انسان از دیدگاه <مارکس> پرداخته استانسان از شهواتی برخوردار است که منحصراً انسانی هستند و نه حیوانی.. و فراسویِ غریزهٔ بقا قرار دارنددر این رابطه <مارکس> میگوید: شهوت از استعدادها و قوه هایِ انسان است که بخاطرِ رسیدن به هدفِ آن، استعدادها جد و جهد میکننددر اظهارِ نظرِ <مارکس> شهوت به مفهومِ رابطه و وابستگی داشتن تعریف شده است... پویاییِ طبیعتِ انسان، تا آنجا که انسانی است، اساساً در این نیازِ انسان ریشه
‎دوستانِ گرانقدر، همانطور که از عنوانِ کتاب پیداست، این کتاب به بررسی سرشتِ انسان از دیدگاه <مارکس> پرداخته است‎انسان از شهواتی برخوردار است که منحصراً انسانی هستند و نه حیوانی..
و فراسویِ غریزهٔ بقا قرار دارند‎در این رابطه <مارکس> میگوید: شهوت از استعدادها و قوه هایِ انسان است که بخاطرِ رسیدن به هدفِ آن، استعدادها جد و جهد میکنند‎در اظهارِ نظرِ <مارکس> شهوت به مفهومِ رابطه و وابستگی داشتن تعریف شده است...
و <مارکس> اعتقاد داشت که یک جامعه صد در صد ماشینی میتواند به یک جامعهٔ اومانیستی که در آن انسان هدفِ کلیهٔ تلاشهایِ اجتماعی باشد، تبدیل گردد------------------------------------------------‎امیدوارم این توضیحات کافی و مفید بوده باشه‎<پیروز باشید و ایرانی>

What else could be better than this ?!?! Erich Fromm writes about Karl Marx . A stunning book.
After reading two of Marx's anthologies, this was indispensable in helping me understand what the hell Marx was really talking about.
It was like studying Marx in a college class but without the class and only Fromm as your professor.
It further cements Fromm's status in my book as one of the top thinkers of the 20th century.
It also gives me a deeper admiration for Marx.
Whereas after reading him by myself I had been most impressed just by his sheer audacity in taking the idea of private property to its logical (but extreme) conclusion, Fromm's book left me regarding Marx as a true humanist, people-first Zen political scientist.
As a humanist, this book is somewhat of a bible for me. The notion of man as a creative being is inspiring and beautiful.
Why is the man who's ideas stimulated nearly half the world to revolution automatically rejected without even being seriously looked at by most of us the U.S. today?
The fact is Marx is more than communism.
His most famous work is not called Communism but Capital.
Today, we see yet another crisis in global capitalism.
Marx's Concept of Man serves as an introduction to such an analysis.
Erich Fromm--a significant 20th century philosopher in his own right--introduces us to some of the most timeless aspects of Marx's concept of man in a way that makes his thought significant to this day.
I read this many years ago, in college.
I decided it was time to revisit it.
Erich Fromm's chapters, introducing some of what follows by Marx, is my favorite part of the book.
He makes Marx much more accessible.
Marx is one of those long-misunderstood philosophers.
Fromm does a wonderful job of explaining the heart of Marx's work, which is *not* "dialectical materialism".
Marx, at heart, was a humanistic philosopher who believed that capitalism alienates humanity from itself.
He wanted people to live in a world where they could enjoy the greatest freedoms and self-realization; this is the opposite of totalitarian Communism that wrongly claims him as inspiration.
كتاب زخم، وترجمة جيّدة .. تكتشف جوانب لطيفة من ناحية هامّة جدًا من الماركسية إلا وهي الإنسان .. وتكتشف كم هي المعلومات السائدة مغلوطة حول هذا الموضوع.
-Karl Marx, düşündüğü gibi yaşayan,başkaldırı felsefesini geliştiren doğacı/hümanist, Batı Medeniyet
I had already read the Manuscripts so I was really looking forward to Fromm's introduction.
I learned Marx with a heavy emphasis on alienation, which mostly came from the Manuscripts.
Fromm is writing to refute the Soviets and brushes slightly against challenging Althusser's epistemic break.
Fromm's emphasis of the spiritual nature only serves to support critics like John Gray who castigate communism as an eschatological mentality.
What came to me as most important from reading this is that the Manuscripts weren't published until 1932, so much of Trotsky, Lenin, Stalin etc had no access to the more humanistic Marx which Fromm is trying to display here.
an important book about one of the most misunderstood geniuses.
I thought Fromm gave a great depiction of Marx's ideology, but he could have used less large quote chunks.
This of course leads us right to the dictatorship of the proletariat (another term that's not used directly here) which in turn leads to a classless society free from the ideas of the ruling class.The third and last part of the book are some personal accounts from Marx's daughter and wife, Paul Lafargue and Engels all of which try to establish Marx as an insightful thinker, a political analyst, a liberator, a humanist etc.I think that Fromm tried too hard to ''sanctify'' Marx, failing to understand that all people may hold beliefs that contradict one another through their lifetime.
The book is interesting, but at some point Fromm's argument is overstretched.
The way Fromm dismisses it is not very honest.
His argument goes something like this: "My opponents want to split Marx in two halves.
And that is how he thinks his argument is proved and he can depict Marx as an ideal humanist, zen-buddhist, protofreudian and what not.
This is annoying.The very portrayal of Marx as a humanist and not narrow-minded petty-bourgeois materialist seems correct and obvious.
It's just Fromm is to signifficant a thinker to be just describing someone else's thoughts.
the way man produces determines his thinking and his desires Everything which the economist takes from you in the way of life and humanity, he restores to you in the form of money and wealth. All crave for things, new things, to have and to use. the aim of life: the development of human power, which is its own end, the true realm of freedom spiritual existence x homo consumens
Besides Robert Tucker's take on Marx in The Marx-Engels Reader, this is probably the best explanation of what Marx was really trying to accomplish as a socialist. I am NOT a communist, but you have to respect that he was brilliant and that the guy just genuinely wanted the world to be a better place.
كتاب يتحدث عن الماركسية بوجهة نظر مؤيدة ومدافعه ..ويحاول الكاتب درء الشبهات التى احاطت باماركس
Intellectuals are the shoeshine boys of the ruling elite.
Etraftan dinlediği ipsiz-sapsız cümlelerle ama Marx da da da.... diye saçma sapan ulu orta konuşanların bile anlayabileceği dilde Marx'ın felsefesindeki hümanizmi anlatmak için yazılmış bir kitap diyebilirim. Çok derin olduğunu söyleyemem ama çok basit, net ve doyurucu.
Read for Philosophy of Conscience
Marx's Concept of Man by Erich Fromm was one of the best books I have ever read. His explanation of Marxism was thoroughly interesting and entertaining.
Super awesome book. I cried at the end.
Интересна книга, но преводът на български е ужасяващ, а електронният вариант изобилства от пунктуационни грешки. За съжаление преводът на "Психоанализа и религия" е също толкова отчайващ. На места имам чувството, че е превеждано с гугъл преводача.
In "Marx's Concept of Man", Fromm tries to correct the somewhat impartial picture and lack of understanding that he thinks of as a so common factor of public discussion of Marx's works.The best part of the book is undoubtedly the 87 pages that Fromm wrote himself.
The book concludes with several other writings of Karl Marx as well as some reminiscences of Marx, brought to paper by friends and family.There are two things that stop me from giving this book five stars: In the first place, Fromm focused too much on the person Marx for my taste, explaining at length (and also printing entire accounts of) why he was such a "nice guy".
هي أقرب ما تكون إلى محاولة للدفاع عن كارل ماركس من قبل أحد أكثر المقتنعين بدور الانسان في فلسفته،ألا
“This popular picture of Marx's 'materialism' - his anti-spiritual tendency, his wish for uniformity and subordination - is utterly false.
Marx's aim was that of the spiritual emancipation of man, of his liberation from the chains of economic determination, of restituting him in his human wholeness, of enabling him to find unity and harmony with his fellow man and with nature.
Marx's philosophy was, in secular, nontheistic language, a new and radical step forward in the tradition of prophetic Messianism; it was aimed at the full realization of individualism, the very aim which has guided Western thinking from the Renaissance and the Reformation far into the nineteenth century.”
في هذا الكتاب يحاول الكاتب إرك فروم إزالة التشويه الذي ألحقته الرآسماليه على الفيلسوف الألماني ماركس -الذي يبدو اشتراكيًا- ، فهو بمثابة قراءات ومراجعات من الكاتب لمفاهيم متعدد للفيلسوف فيمايخص مخطوطاته الإقتصادية والفلسفية وهو في الحقيقة مقدمة لمخطوطة ممتدة لذلك يبدو ناقصًا بلا معنى واضح، كانت الفائدة منه في أخذ نبذة مبسطة عن مفاهيم ماركس خاصة في مفهومه المقنع عن العمل وتحليل منطقي من الكاتب لها .
One of the first books I ever read in class as an undergraduate--- a long-ago Philosophy class called Intro. to the Human Condition. All these years later, I still recall the class--- and this book ---with great fondness. This book introduced me at seventeen to a Marx I hadn't known of before, to the young Marx and the 1844 manuscripts that became the basis for Marxist Humanism. A very fine introduction to key topics, and a reminder of the possibilities of humanism.
This was my introduction to Marx's theories. Fromm immediately demystified every notion I had about Marx, stripping Chinese and Russian approaches to socialism from any bona fide relation to the true Marx, and painting a super humanist cool guy I can't wait to read more of.
I am going slowly through Fromm's works - and I have to say that he ads a very human slant to philosophy.
