https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31360.Children_of_the_Mind
Whatta you want?PETER: I'm an extra-universally created simulation of Peter Wiggin, the late Hegemon of the Free People of Earth, under the spiritual control of Andrew "Ender" Wiggin who is and will remain, until his imminent death of old age, reviled and celebrated, respectively, as Xenocide and Speaker for the Dead.WANG-MU: And I am Wang-mu, a former slave with artificially-enhanced intellectual capacity, ironically named after a Chinese goddess.
We were subjected again to far too many pages of the completely useless and unbelievable Quara, the inner turmoil of Miro (this time as he's deciding between Val and Jane), the completely incredible romance between Peter and Wang-Mu, tedious scenes between Ender and the second-least sympathetic character in the series Novinha (Card, if you're going to make her this unlikeable, you can't continue to subject the reader to her), and "recaps" from the previous books that went on for long paragraphs and I ended up just skipping.
September 2009Previously: XenocideThe fleet sent by Starways Congress to destroy the planet Lusitania is getting closer.
The good news is: Jane, the intelligent supercomputer program, has figured out faster-than-light travel, so the evacuation of Lusitania's native and foreign species is ongoing.
There was something about the Descolada back in Xenocide, someone suggested it may have an off-planet origin and, therefore, a creator or creators.
The planet is found and...nothing happens.
As for the religious divisions among the pequeninos, with the fathertree Warmaker keen on spreading the virus to other human worlds...completely forgotten once faster-than-light travel happens and new planets are swiftly colonized.
It's like tying a bow around your writing to show how good it's supposed to be, which is just lame, especially for a book this bad.
By attempting to meld so many cultures,attitudes,"philosophy", and even "super-geniuses" with such boring and trivial ideas and conversations, I couldn't help but think that either Card has let the success of his sole enjoyable book,Ender's Game, inflate his ego and therefore destroy his writing, or doesn't know what on earth he is talking about.
It's like whenever an author's name is printed larger than the title, you know the book is going to be overrated.
Yet he is a tragic character who carries the burden of humanity on his shoulders, always taking on more responsibility than is seemed his share.This final novel is the fast paced, engaging, climax to the series.
He developed and expounded all that was missing from the first two (yes, two, I don’t consider Ender’s Game part of this series, its character and mood and purpose are entirely different than these three.
I’ve read complaints about Speaker or Xenocide that were resolved in this last one.His characters drive his stories.
I do recommend the series.
Even though a lot is happening in the book - colonies of buggers, pequeninos, and Lusitanians are moving off-world; the Starways Congress Fleet is traveling to Lusitania to destroy it; Peter and [the hyper-annoying] Wang-Mu are conducting Card's ridiculous idea of shuttle diplomacy - Card only ever has characters talk about it, rather than have the reader along for the ride.
political opinion in the Congress of ONE HUNDRED WORLDS is changed and an order goes out telling the fleet not to use the Little Doctor!Then there is the pointless conflict and endless hand wringing over where Jane's soul (or aiua) will go.
Why did I EVER think he was a good writer?Oh, that is IT Orson Scott Card.
We will take over the schools and such and encourage EVERYONE to be hedonistic heathens because he is getting on my damn nerves THAT MUCH!I swear this computer is trying to tell me to read Harry Potter instead.
It's like I can't even think of a character of his as a good guy because they FRIGGING SUCK THAT MUCH AS A PERSON!
Or gender roles, but love and trust!And why must Novinha be in this book?
I thought these books were better than Ender in Exile, but they are the same.Every single paragraph is poisoned by Orson Scott Card's world view.
You know, the only truly unforgivable, unredeemable, unreasonable, and supremely infuriating bits… Let me summarize what these bits were: QUARA, Qing-Jao, and Novinha.
(*note: Qing-Jao appears in Xenocide.) NOVINHA: So Ender finally commits himself to a woman, and he has to choose a massively-scarred, emotionally-wrecked, paranoid, vitriolic control freak who, it was revealed, never really gave him her unconditional love and devotion (view spoiler)[ (He wanted kids so badly yet she was not interested in disrupting her career!
Even Novinha's adultery was eventually painted as the manifestation of a "marriage of the heart." (view spoiler)[ I was slightly annoyed by the insta-marriage decisions of Miro and Jane and Peter and Wang-mu.
The Ender quartet started so strong and got progressively worse with each book.
Children of the Mind started with so much potential but it was poorly executed.
Then Ender would have to act on his promise to stop Peter.
Comparing his ethical quandary to that of Ender was really interesting but couldn't make up for everything else that made this book so bad.
I wanted to like this book, but I couldn't.
After reading Children of the Mind it will take time before I want to read another book by Orson Scott Card.
Don't get me wrong, Orson Scott Card is one of the greats. Ender's series is one of the best series of all time. However, this book was his weakest due to being monotonous and preachy. The characters were going back and forth, stating the same dialogues. I understand the message and the characters' purposes, but the book lasted way too long; thus,I barely finished the book. Of course, there were many moments, but the bad outweighs the good.
4.0 to 4.5 stars. Book four of the classic Ender series. Not quite as good as the previous books but still excellent and highly recommended.
Children of the Mind flows from the rest of the Ender saga.
Like the other books, it's pretty enthralling and opens up the type of moral and philosophical issues that probably have entire sections of the library dedicated to understanding them.
The biggest criticism I can offer is the role of Ender in this, the final part of Ender's series.
Technically he is playing a large role in the whole fight for alien survival.
But it seems as if this character with such great potential, if not as the main hero then as a really cool supporting role, is almost completely useless from the third book on.
I was expecting much more from Ender...
Then there were Xenocide and this one, both of which were merely okay.It seems that Xenocide and Children Of The Mind were originally meant to be one book.
One character could have served the functions of both.I also feel that much of the plot of Children Of The Mind was not needed.
Sure, there was a lot made of their flaws, but these flaws all seemed superficial, and pretty much everyone was a super great person doing the best they could.
The only truly flawed ones that I saw were the minor characters Quara, Plikt, and Lands.There were still a few great moments.
With the rest of the series (barring Ender's Shadow, et al.--I'm talking about the main "Quartet") Orson Scott Card seemed to say, "Of you like stories of moral dilemma told in a science fiction world?
But I got to a point where I realized I still had 100 or so pages of this, and I just had to put my foot down.Which leads me to broken rule #2: The purpose of this whole review is so that someone might save themselves the trouble of reading this novel.
Then maybe re-read Ender's Game so that someone, somewhere, can once again send positive vibes toward Orson Scott Card.
The Hundred Worlds up until this novel had been fairly believable because we had only encountered a few different planets.
3000 years have passed, and yet humanity has not progressed in the sciences in any notable fashion.All in all, the main problem with Orson Scott Card's novel is that it ruins the magic established by the previous novels in the series by abandoning its main character, forcing romance where it doesn't belong, and ruining the suspension of disbelief by bringing the universe's most glaring inconsistencies into the foreground.
With each subsequent book of the Ender Saga I have enjoyed it less and less.Throughout the entire series there has been a strong drive to explore philosophical notions of war and survival and the connections between people.
By Children of the Mind Card might as well be bludgeoning you over the head with it.
On the Pacific islanders planet one character makes reference to how unambitious the people are and wonders if it is something to do with their racial character or their genome.
Read the next one, Speaker of the Dead, if you really want to; but avoid Xenocide and Children of the Mind as far as possible.
I didn't care much for the first book (Ender's Game), but the surprise ending captivated me enough to read the next book (plus the series was a Christmas present and I didn't want to leave it unread).
The second book (Speaker for the Dead) was much better and I love the Speaker for the Dead idea.
This is where things in the book get complicated.
The third book (Xenocide), whoa, huge leap in time, love how chaotic everything is with the race to save [insert one of many things here].
The ending of the third book threw me off a bit though.
The first book in the series was skillfully crafted to weave complex strategy lessons for a child, and I was very pleased with how clever the author was, with only a few areas that were a bit heavy-handed.
The subsequent books got a bit more convoluted, and lost some of the brilliance.
It seemed like Card spent most of his effort on coming up with the species and characters and fascinating theories, but not as much on the plot twists and fine detail as he did with the first book.
It was thoughtfully written and obviously much more than just a science fiction book.A few of my favorite quotes:"But we were there, and during the time we lived, we were alive.
If we die, then our death has meaning to the rest of the universe.
Even if our lives are unknown, the fact that someone lived here, and died, that will have repercussions that will shape the universe.""Miro, I'm so sorry.
But being happy, that is for those who write their names in the lives of others, and hold the hearts of others as treasure most dear.
This book was not good :(-the female characters were all written badly-the plot wasn't captivating, everything they wanted to happen just kinda worked out-it was too self aware? as if every event had to be justified by the unrealistic conversations of the previous pageIt's disappointing but I just didn't enjoy it. That being said, I'd still recommend reading the first two books of the series, as I think they hold their own nicely & I think they're brilliant.
Miro gets the fever for Young Val - then flips to Jane, but it's Jane in Young Val's body and this is pretty messed up enough to warrant a good chapter or so on identity and sexual vs.
but we don't really get much in the way of why it's OK for Miro to want to hook up with the big 'L' of his life in the body of his recent crush.
One of Ender's selves is using the wishing box to hop from planet to planet to try to convince some powerful people to help stop the fleet.
When Peter finally confronts the admiral of the Lusitania fleet, it was a refreshing glimpse of how entertaining Card can be, but its also a very grim reminder of how far off the rails this whole series has gone.After Speaker for the Dead, I thought this series had so much promise that I might even go back and finish up the Shadow books.
This can be exemplified with the following passage (which was edited as to not give away too much of the plot):~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~She reached up and touched the tears on his cheek.
Then she touched her damp finger to her own cheek.
The tears commingled."Let's do the civilized thing," she said.
She touched her cheek again, where she had put his tear.
It was still damp; still damp, too, when she touched the finger now to his cheek.
That said, there still were interesting story lines and some of the mysteries from earlier books were resolved, so it may be worth reading if you need closure on the Ender saga...
Early on I committed to drudging through it as a series with seven novels (before this one) and 9 short stories, ranging from good reads to loved, calls for great patience in reading the last story.
I just couldn't make it.
It does so with such spectacular nonsense that I couldn't go on.
I still love the series as a whole.
I still love the series as a whole.
No one would take advice to not read just the last novel in a series like this.
An excellent conclusion, a great outcome, almost happy all around.
But of the two left, Ender's Game and Children of the Mind, I'm not sure which I prefer.
Ender's Game is absolutely brilliant, but so different from the others its hard to figure out where it fits.
I almost always find the romances within a sci-fi novel, movie, or tv series, more satisfying than pure romance/drama.
So, this book was quite a bit of fun for me, in that sense.
It is also the only book to make me cry, as far as I can remember.
So many confessions of love for a sci-fi novel!
It will take the efforts of everyone to stop Starways Congress, save Lusitania, and keep Jane alive.Children of the Mind is the fourth published book in the Ender Saga, and originally the final volume.
After much grappling with my own issues surrounding Children of the Mind, I have come to the conclusion that regardless of it’s bright moments, there were just too many that made me want to tear out my hair to consider this to be a good book.
By far the Ender's book I enjoyed the least.
In Xenocide, Card is able to keep the discussion about other alien species kind of topical and moral, but here it goes off the rails and just embellishes a bunch of terrible discourse on things that aren't real, and things that don't matter to anyone.
Even worse, there's a big plot cliffhanger that isn't addressed at all as mattering, and then the next books that were published in the series are all flashbacks that won't answer one of, if not THE only interesting storylines that is in play.
I loved Ender's Game and Speaker for the Dead, but disliked Xenocide so I was hoping this one would live up to the first two books, it failed.This book spent way to much time thinking and talking and not enough doing. Also people just changed their minds and it didn't make sense why they had. The end didn't work for me (view spoiler)[neither did Ender's death and the body sharing/switching (hide spoiler)] . So read the first two and don't bother with the rest.
What could have been the saving grace of the Ender series, ends up being another way to further cast Ender as unimportant and a memory of the past.Card artfully finds a way to resolve all of the conflicts in this conclusion to the series.
However, instead of placing rationality between the characters and their relationships, he causes silly events, like people getting married who know almost nothing about each other and allowing one of the anti-heroes to consume the good, true heroes, well before their time.I wish I hadn't tried to keep finding sanity in this series.
I wish I had stopped at Ender's Game.
