https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/773951.The_Story_of_Ferdinand
It's about a bull that doesn't want to bullfight like the other bulls.
He just wants to sit and smell flowers in the field.
My mom used to read it to me when I was a kid.
She used to call me her little Ferdinand, because all the other little boys wanted to run around and roughhouse.
I just wanted to sit and read and think.
I'm not an impartial judge of this book.
I'm not an impartial judge of this book.
And when a book's been around for 70 years, there's usually a reason for it.
He sits in the middle of the bull ring failing to take heed of any of the provocations of the matador and others to fight.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: دوم ماه ژانویه سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: اما فردیناند این کار را نکرد؛ نویسنده: مونرو لیف ؛ مترجم: طاهره آدینه پور؛ ویراستار: مرتضی خسرونژاد؛ تهران، شرکت انتشارات علمی و فرهنگی؛ چاپ اول 1383، در 72 ص؛ مصور؛ شابک: 9644454790 ؛ موضوع: داستانهای حیوانات برای گروه سنی ب و ج سده 20 مگوساله کوچکی به نام فردیناند، با گله ای از گاوها در اسپانیا زندگی میکند.
؛ داستان «اما فردیناند این کار را نکرد»، پیام صلح و دوستی برای خوانشگر کمسال خویش دارد.
Lovely, lovely book. Sweet story -- plus bonus magical illustrations of romanticized Spain of yore to delight all.
The mood and tone of this story are both spot on. And even though Ferdinand is easy to love, and even though the beginning is cute and entrancing, overall, the story is just pretty okay.It's about a bull who doesn't want to fight like all the others, because he'd rather just relax and smell flowers. Can you blame him? No. But there's really not much more to the story than that.
I enjoyed this book on several levels: a wonderful book about being yourself for children - but also a subconscious commentary on fascist Spain - a bull with a big heart picked to be slaughtered at the Blood Wedding of Franco and fed to his guests - my interpretation.
Reading them transports me back to those (probably apocryphal) moments in my brain, leaving me full of a sort of joyful melancholy for things past and a hunger for more of those memories, a desire to relive all those locked up personal stories, so I grab another book I have always loved and devour it looking for more.
I thought of Chris and guessed that she probably read this book to me first.
While I had heard about this work before, this is the first time that I have read it and I absolutely love it.
Originally published in 1936, this work has been translated into more than 60 languages and has rarely been out of print.
While Munro Leaf is an American author because of the timing, setting and main character, this work is thought to have a political agenda.
The book was published shortly before the Spanish Civil War. Described by some as subversive with a pacifist view (which challenged the facism that currenlty predominated Europe), "Ferdinand" was banned in many countries including Spain and Germany.
Although I've known the story of the "little bull with a gentle heart who turned into a big bull with a gentle heart" for quite some time, I'd never picked up a copy until now.
Lovely little story, which shook the world one might say.It was banned in Spain during the Spanish Civil War since it was seen as a "pacifist" book.
(Oh, the horror!)It was banned in Nazi Germany (by none other than Little Adolf) for being "degenerate democratic propaganda." We better watch out, girls and boys, if The Trumpet ever learns to read!How can you rate it less than 5 glorious stars when you know that it made Franco and Hitler shake in their tiny little boots, just at the thought of it?(And for what it's worth, it's a great little book for children too!)
I was blown away by the simple story of a gentle bull named Ferdinand, content with his life in the Spanish countryside.
When it is time to choose a strong and tough bull to fight in Madrid, Ferdinand does not care and would rather smell flowers under his favorite cork tree.
Ferdinand is stung by a bee and in his natural reaction of snorting and butting, he is mistaken by the city men as a suitable candidate for the bull fight and they take him away.
Ferdinand proves this true when he attains bliss by simply sitting and smelling the flowers.
This is, without a doubt, my absolute FAVORITE book from childhood.
I remember my mother reading this to me as a small child, and having to fight back the tears, the story touched me so deeply.
I was impressed with Ferdinand's gentle, yet strong, nature.
I like to analyze this book on many levels.
On a side note (and dork moment): my husband holds the same valuable characteristics I have always cherished in Ferdinand.
I think I fell in love with Ferdinand as a child and as an adult found him realized and embodied in my husband.
I celebrated the  Freedom to Read  for the 2013 ALA Banned Book Week by reading this selection. Yes, it is a short children's picture book, but I was knee deep in other reads this year.So why was this book banned you ask?This book was originally published in 1936. Some saw the material as fascist, socialistic, pacifist or communistic. Munro Leaf, an American writer, had chosen to set this book in Spain. Well, history will tell us in 1936 the Spanish Civil War began a few months after publication
for the 2013 ALA Banned Book Week by reading this selection.
Munro Leaf, an American writer, had chosen to set this book in Spain.
The leader of the Spanish Nationalist, General Francisco Franco and his supporters saw the book as being pacifist, so it was banned.Hitler called it degenerate propaganda and had it burned, he also supported Franco's Nationalist movement.What exactly is this book about?Being that is a short read I won't give away too much, but Ferdinand is young bull.
Munro Leaf actually wrote this book for his friend Robert Lawson to illustrate.
The stronger message for me is to find what makes you happy and do that regardless of what others (society) tells you.Ferdinand's mom doesn't receive a lot of press, which is too bad, as she should be a model for parents everywhere.
Wow. Then the best line in the book as far as I'm concerned is "His mother saw that he was not lonesome, and because she was an understanding mother, even though she was a cow, she let him just sit there and be happy." You go mom.Finally, once I really started looking at Robert Lawson's illustrations with lots of help from the internet - I was blown away.
A classic children's story that even for a grown man like me means a lot, even though I`m not as strong as a bull, I believe that Ferdinand looks like me when I was a little boy :)
A classic children's story that even for a grown man like me means a lot, even though I`m not as strong as a bull, I believe that Ferdinand looks like me when I was a little boy :)
Awe Ferdinand is such a cutie pie!
Very emotional--I cried the whole time and refused to even accept my pacifier. Why should I be pacified when poor Ferdinand, our peace-loving protagonist, is dragged to Madrid against his will to participate in a bullfight before a mob eager for bloodshed and violence??! Satisfying ending, though. I immediately settled down for a nap. -M
Where was this little gem when I was young? Hard not to cast my childhood as poorer in hindsight seeing how many great children's literature I missed back then. Well, better late than never! Nobody said "grown-up kids" can't read this book and enjoy it as well..
The best children's book-- ever.
He likes to sit under his favorite tree and smell the flowers.
His mother doesn't mind as long as he's happy.One day men show up to choose the fiercest, scariest, strongest bull to fight in the big bullfight in Madrid, Spain.
The Matador, Banderilleros and Picadores were terrified that the bull was going to come after them immediately.
Ferdinand ran to the middle of the ring, sat down and proceeded to enjoy the flower smell coming from the ladies.
Finally everyone gives up and Ferdinand is returned to his pasture to enjoy his trees and flowers.
3 APR 2016 - Love, Love, Love this book.
As a little girl, I carried this book everywhere.
I did not know at that time that Ferdinand was all about seizing his day and enjoying it in the way most suitable to himself.
As I re-read a newly purchased copy yesterday, I thought of this lovely poem: Gather Ye Rosebuds While Ye May, by John William Waterhouse (Source: Wikipedia)"To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time" is a poem written by English Cavalier poet Robert Herrick in the 17th century.
The poem is in the genre of carpe diem, Latin for seize the day.
Carpe Diem, Ferdinand!
Carpe Diem.
My children really enjoyed this one.
The pictures were clear and drawn well, all in black and white, and it made for a more easily understandable understanding of the story line.
The story was cute, and since we got it from the library, it came in a packet with an actual stuffed Ferdinand which allowed me to use my "bull voice" and have him make comments about the story and added another dimension altogether to our book time that we hadn't considered up until now.
The children all loved it.
My only concern was that they fought over the stuffed animal and eventually it did have to go back to the library.
This is so cute. Ferdinand....awwww.....
Loved it!
This is a children’s book and it’s fairly short; because of this, there isn’t a lot of time for character development and that’s understandable.
Ferdinand is the most rounded character in the whole book.
Not only that, he’s a very introverted character, something that I haven’t seen a lot in children’s books.
She reveals her thoughts and acceptance towards her son’s decisions making her a very real character.The story relies heavily on the illustration to actually “tell” the story.
In fact, the illustrations are what make Ferdinand the rounded character that he is.
I had a deep empathy for the bull, who found himself captive and with life in danger because of mistaken identification.The story and pictures were interesting and left questions open to my young mind that caused me to gaze in with my eyes and imagination to try to see what was beyond the pages of the story and beyond what was shown in the illustrations.I was raised in Bartlesville, Oklahoma.
Regardless of how much or how little thought Munro Leaf put into the story it is true that children like myself have enjoyed the story and empathized with the Bull Ferdinand for decades.Throughout my life, every time I see a copy my heart leaps a little and I always want to open it to go into that world and see my old friend again.
Så sagt och gjort så gjorde jag det, och jag tyckte väldigt mycket om den.Tjuren Ferdinand är en av mina favoritberättelser i Kalle Anka och hans vänner önskar God Jul, och jag ser den varje år.
Bilderna i boken, och hela boken i sig, var också väldigt fina, och jag gillar att de var svartvita.Jag tror att nostalgin kan ha lite mer att göra att jag tyckte så mycket om den här boken, men Tjuren Ferdinand är en stor favorit för mig.
One of my absolute favorite children's stories.
۱۵ سالم بود.مادرید بودیم. رفته بودیم که گاوبازی ببینیم. گاوبازی و اتفاقات و مراحلش برام غریبه نیست. هر راند گاوبازی ۶ تا گاو سلاخی میشن.فقط اولی رو تونستم تا تهش بایستم، با دستام جلوی چشمهام.میفهممت فردیناند.
Ferdinand would rather sit under his favorite cork tree in Spain and smell flowers than roughhouse and butt heads like the other young bulls.
Even in this charming book the drawings of the "long sharp pins with ribbons" and "long spears" used to provoke the bulls, remind me of the harm that is inflicted upon them.
But this book will endure as a timeless classic because the illustrations by Robert Lawson capture not only the personality of free-spirited Ferdinand, but also the beauty of Spain - from its pastoral scenery to its narrow, urban passageways and tile roofs.
While Ferdinand's bull brethren wrestle each other, in hopes of being chosen to represent at the bullfights in Madrid, Ferdinand likes to just sit under the cork oak, and to observe the lovely flowers.
Surely he could have found a bull friend to observe the wonders of nature with him?...maybe he just needed to move to different town and find more like-minded folks.
Anyway, Ferdinand eventually gets chosen as el toro for la corrida.
While bullfighting doesn't work out well for our dear Ferdinando, we, as Michael Stipe says, all go back to where we belong, and our bull eventually gets to return to his cork tree to watch the flowers forevermore.
Ferdinand is a bull, but he isn't a very fierce one.
I love that Ferdinand just wanted to be left alone to sit quietly under his favorite tree and smell the flowers.
I think that's probably what I related to most as a child - just wanting to be left alone to do what you enjoy doing.
My son loved the fact that Ferdinand "didn't want to hurt his friends".
It's a rare trait where Ferdinand is from.
He isn't like the other bulls and that's okay because he's happy; and that's the most important thing of all!
