https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21436.Cat_and_Mouse
If you are new to Patterson's series or like me, read my last entry 6-months ago and am now returning to the brutal environment of Washington D.C, hints and reminders are given regarding past events so the context and past actions are provided without ever dumbing it down too much for the die hard readers.
As for Mr. Smith, we know nothing about him, he is only referred to in passing for the first half of the narrative.As usual, readers follow Alex's 1st person perspective for the majority, however, other viewpoints such as those of trusted partner Detective John Sampson and the killer Gary Soneji are presented in the 3rd person.
I'm grateful to the Great American Read for enticing me to start reading the Alex Cross series.
This series does seem to have it out for any woman that Alex Cross shows interest in, however......that particular plot device is getting a bit old after 4 books.
Cross' partner, John Sampson, is a great supporting character.
I much preferred the previous Alex Cross audio book I listened to, narrated by Ron Butler.
If the main character in a novel is black, then PLEASE hire a black actor to narrate the audio book!!!
The Alex Cross series has 25 books...with #26 coming in Nov 2018.
Why do I keep picking up Alex Cross novels when I am constantly dissapointed?
Is it because I read Kiss the Girls when I was much younger and at that time found it enjoyable?
Ah the blissful pleasures of ignorant youth.
Maybe it is just because there happen to be so many in every airport bookstore that I just can't resist.
This book was apparently thrown togeather with no regard for cohesive story line, no thought of how time passes, and no thought of how real people think and feel.
Alex Cross who used to be kind of heroic is left looking silly and juvinile.
The fact that Patterson spends half the book writing about how evil white people are drives me nuts.
Granted he's a sexy black man (it's not racist 'cause the book says so!) but seriously, he hasn't caught THAT many bad guys at this point in the series and yet they ALL come looking for him?
Cross' women: While this one manages to avoid death or maiming, this is apparently because she was attacked, her husband killed and she was held hostage in book #3.
'Cause apparently being racist when your old is okay.All in all, a book to be avoided - especially if you actually read and THINK about what you are reading.
You can't help but stick around, and hey, she's talking to you which is a bonus, but in the end, you just can't get around the fact that you know kissing her would be like licking a public toilet.So what you might ask is so likeable about the book?The story is awesome and Patterson can write a thriller like no one else.
And that makes it very hard as a reader, because the line to line writing is so good, but it just sucks when you know how it is going to end thirty pages in.
Alex is, once again, faced with two psychopaths but this time round they are both masters of the macabre.
The violence held within is pretty graphic so let your watch word be "take care".The things the alpha villain, Mr Smith, does are particularly gross.
This time round author James Patterson decides to show us that Alex Cross is not infallible after all.
The pace is fast and unrelenting and the murders are, for the most part, pretty gross.A few small criticism, Mr Smith is revealed just a bit too early for my liking.
Just like Jack and Jill, Cat and Mouse forces Alex to take on two murderers again.
Alex sort of finds love (but I didn't really care about that part - I just wanted the murders solved and killers behind bars (or dead)).I saw some stuff coming (like how Mr. Smith really was - and I was so freaking happy that I guessed right!) and other stuff I had no idea would happened.
I'm so glad that I got the chance to read this book because I'm loving this series so far!
3.5*I liked it but wasn’t as into as I was the previous three of the series.
Still set up for a good continuous of the series.
I liked the crime plots and I especially liked the twists in the Pierce case.
The Cross crime plot was actually solved too easily in my opinion.
The characters are amusing to follow in this series.
We will see after some more Cross books though.
My quick and simple overall: quick and good read but it did take me way longer but that had to do with my dissertation edits responsibility over the book.
Would you be an assassin? When is being the bad guy ever good? Is being an assassin a good or a bad thing? Do killers have different problems then regular people? Cat and mouse by James Patterson is a suspenseful, exciting action book that will blow your mind. Two people fight to the death, who will be the cat and who will be the mouse.Gary Sonejis is an assassin in the United States and he was a kidnapper. Mr. Smith is a person without a first name, and he is also an assassin but in Europe tha
Is being an assassin a good or a bad thing?
Cat and mouse by James Patterson is a suspenseful, exciting action book that will blow your mind.
Two people fight to the death, who will be the cat and who will be the mouse.Gary Sonejis is an assassin in the United States and he was a kidnapper.
I was amazed by the book Cat and mouse by its suspense of James Patterson.
I recommend this book to people who love to be surprised and like unpredictable situations.
I also like this book because it was suspenseful and it kept you at the edge of your seat.
This book is perfect for someone looking for a completely predictable, awfully written, over played detective story.
Patterson's writing style in "Cat and Mouse" is hideous.
Not to mention Patterson divides the book into two sections, that are not even relatable.
Halfway through the book, Patterson switches from the Soneji case to the Mr. Smith case, as if it were a new book!
"Along Came a Spider" was good, "Kiss the Girls" was great, "Jack and Jill" was OK, but the fourth book, "Cat and Mouse" was horrible.
Unless you are looking for a book to put you to sleep, stay away from "Cat and Mouse."
I'm usually a huge Alex Cross fan, the first two books - shit scary.
Seriously?!It basically read like two books - the first half with Soneji was a flop, I didn't find that necessary, yes it was creepy but pretty disappointing.
And (ok, maybe I'm a bitch) but not one member of Alex Cross' family died??
Second half of the book was good.
At 75% we went left field which was surprising but not necessarily bad (or good mind you).My problem with reviewing this is that I am a James Patterson fan usually but this book...
Think I'm turned off Alex Cross for while.
Alex Cross is back-as is a furious and self-destructive Gary Soneji.
Mr. Smith is an interesting creature, with activities toward his casualties so crazy so unfathomable that he is considered as "not of the earth." Pierce, referred to in the business as St. Augustine due to his reputation for getting executioners and his precious status to the FBI and Interpol, may even be superior to anything Cross.When things warm up and Alex is in a close passing trance state taking after an assault in his own particular home, Pierce goes to Washington to help with the examination.
In any case, similarly as he starts to sort out the riddle of how Gary Soneji could have mortally injured Cross after he was accepted to be dead, he is summoned to Paris with a postcard from Mr. Smith welcoming him to an exceptionally unique executing.
Πρόκειται για ένα μυθιστόρημα γεμάτο ανατροπές και μια σχετικά πολυδιάστατη ιστορία, μιας και δεν έχουμε μόνο τις δύο παράλληλες εξιστορήσεις αλλά και μια σειρά από μυστικά που έχουν σχέση με την υπόθεση Σμιθ, χαρίζοντας απανωτές ανατροπές στον ανυποψίαστο αναγνώστη!
Κι εκεί που λες πως η υπόθεση Σόνετζι πλησιάζει στο τέλος της, γίνεται μια μεγάλη ανατροπή στη ζωή του ντετέκτιβ και την πρωτοπρόσωπη αφήγηση την αναλαμβάνει ο Τόμας Πιρς, πράκτορας του FBI που εργάζεται στη Μονάδα Επιστημονικής Ανάλυσης της Συμπεριφοράς, που καλείται από τον Κάιλ Κρεγκ να εξιχνιάσει ένα νέο μυστήριο που προέκυψε.
i stayed up all night reading. the only thing that stopped me from finishing it was when i looked out the window the sun was already up and i still have a 8 am class to attend, so i figured i got to catch at least an hour's sleep. really exciting, i couldn't put it down. gary soneji is simply sick... yet strangely fascinating.
Alex Cross is again on the trail of Gary Soneji. There is also a killer in England that the FBI is chasing and want Cross to help solve. The book kept me turning pages but it seemed the stories were totally unrelated, and I think they were. It was two books in one, but each of the killers wanted Alex to outsmart them. A bit of a change from his previous books.
I just finished reading one of the books from the Michael Bennett series and I would definitely say the Alex Cross series a lot more intense. I almost wasn't expecting the brutality like I forgot how well James Patterson speaks from the killer's perspective. I definitely liked this one better than the last one and I look forward to continuing the series. Great Read!
And this is why I continue to read James Patterson's books - this one was excellent. Alex Cross is at his masterful best chasing and catching the the bad guys and in this case they are really, really bad! A twist at the end ensures I have to chase up and read the next book in the series very soon.
Since the new ALEX CROSS movie just came out in my area, I decided to pick up CAT & MOUSE and make it an Alex Cross week all the way around.
Then there's the fact that this is an Alex Cross novel where Alex Cross is M.I.A. for a third of the story, making the novel feel like one of those TV episodes where the main actor took a vacation and the show's writers were forced to work around it by propping up secondary characters as leads.
"Death is the nature's way of saying 'howdy'"  - NanaGary Soneji is on the loose again and he is out for a payback to Alex Cross.
This time, Gary Soneji is on the game killing random strangers, making stations as his human shooting range.
Killing in a methodical manner.On the other hand, Thomas Agustine, with his uncanny ability to catch killers, has been chasing the man who brutally his fiancee, Mr. Smith.Meanwhile, Alex Cross was in ground state when an unknown person attacked him in his house.The twist of the story takes turn when it was found out that it was Thomas Pierce who butchered her girlfriend and struck her heart by piercing him because she was cheating on him all along.
It was not very good, could have been two separate books, and they both would have been just OK.
As the bodies pile up, and Cross is nearly murdered in his own home, the game of cat and mouse leads to one final trap, and it's anyone's guess who will survive.The two things I liked most about this book was Gary Soneji, even though he was such a terrible person.
The one thing I didn't like the most was Gary being killed off because he was my favorite part of Along Came A Spider and he was my favorite in this book as well.
I feel like if Soneji hadn't been killed off and Christine and Alex actually took the time to take their relationship slow then I would've liked it better.
Oh my-The layers-plot, character development, plot, “who is the cat”, and “who is the mouse”? But our hero is broken to find the answers....watch out, this book will not let you STOP reading!
I love a good thriller. And now I love Alex Cross. This was a real page turner. Will have to read some of the other AC stories this summer.
I think this is one of my favorite so far in this series.
Originally seen on my book blog!Alex Cross’s (and mine) worst nightmare is back.
While Alex is trying to stop Gary a second time, there is another killer on the loose, Mr. Smith.I lied about Soneji being my worst nightmare.
During the book, Alex is trying to find Soneji and at times he’s not sure if he’s the cat or if he’s the mouse.
It seemed that Soneji knew exactly what Alex was going to do, making Alex the mouse but at times Alex was sure he had a line on Soneji making Alex the cat.There was another aspect of this book that was… creepy and scary.
Those of you who have already read the first book in this series, Along Came A Spider, will recognize Soneji as the teacher turned kidnapper who wanted to commit the "crime of the century." Now he has escaped from prison and has come back to seek revenge on the man who put him there....Alex Cross.Across the ocean on the continent of Europe, another madman is killing people by performing autopsies on them while they're still alive.
The book "Cat and Mouse" by James Patterson is about a detective named Alex Cross and his mission to put an end to Gary Soneji.
A new detective Tomas Pierce has left his Mr. Smith case to solve Crosses.
As soon as Alex got better he discoverd that Tomas was the mass murder Mr. Smith.James Patterson did a good job of discirbeing things during the book.
For example "It was Victorian-style, white shingled, and extreamly well kept", gave me a picture of what Alex Cross's house looked like from Soneji's point of view.
Also things like "I crouched down low beside Sampson.
Really liked this book because it is set in areas of the country that I know well, it's fun reading about places you know.
That was fun too!____________I went through a bit of a James Patterson kick for a while back in the day so please excuse the sheer amount of his books that I've read.
I think anyone who has read his books will agree they are not difficult or challenging BUT they are entertaining and full of suspense and keep you turning pages.
I've enjoyed every one of his books that I've read!
Mostly on vacation or in between reading some of the longer, not as interesting books.
I liked the book.
It got a little wild in the middle but it was indeed a cat and mouse game.
Again I am reading through the Alex Cross book series and have enjoyed them thus far.
The writing is good.
I am not a fan of cursing in books but I get it, he's a tough detective/FBI/Psychologist - when I type it I think REALLY?
I love the little snippets of Alex's family life.
I would LOVE it so much if Samson had a bigger role in the stories.
Seems like he could be a HUGE asset to the storyline.

