https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/108334.Citizen_Tom_Paine
The Tom Paine who Howard Fast creates in his excellent historical novel Citizen Tom Paine is not a traditionally sympathetic character.
Likewise, Fast convincingly shows us the world's first two great democratic revolutions, but only as they are viewed through the fierce eyes of Tom Paine.
Howard Fast has done an excellent job of rescuing Paine from that unfair obscurity, and presenting him as a complex, troubled, but fiercely honest hero for the common man.
Read it yourself to discover the brilliant character that Fast created, and then go out and discover the Tom Paine of history.
After reading Howard Fast's book, "April Morning" about the first day of the American Revolution (see my review), I also bought "Citizen Tom Paine", another of Fast's historical novels - he wrote about one a year during the 40's and 50's, and it too is excellent.
So many that Bell lost count - and that didn't even include the various "wildcat" runs of hundreds or thousands of copies put out by publishers in other colonies.In a large measure, it's thanks to "Common Sense" and Paine's follow-up pamphlets called "The Crisis" I, II, III etc...
My favourite author... can't wait to get teeth into this book. if this is anything like Howard's other novels, I'm in for a treat...!!
افسر به مترجم می گوید “غلط می کنند بر نمی گردند" مترجم که خود از شایان هاست، مکث می کند، به راستی باید این جمله را ترجمه کند؟ فاست وصف می کند شایان ها چگونه ایستاده بودند.
No matter how critically Fast faces American society, he loves his father land, his culture and his nation, deeply and respectfully.تام پین روایتی ست از صدها حکایت، از جنگ های داخلی و استقلال آمریکا و آنچه به انقلاب آمریکا معروف است و...
جنگ استقلال آمریکا به پایان رسیده اما تنها پرده ی نخستین نمایش بزرگ "انقلاب آمریکا" تمام شده است.
"The revolution goes on; a man does not make the revolution, not a thousand men, not an army and not a party; the revolution comes from the people as they reach toward God, and a little of God is in each person and each will not forget it.
The people no more all-seeing than their rulers once were; it is in intention that they differ.”"The new world had renounced God, and thereby, to Paine's way of thinking, they had renounced the reason for man to exist.
Of all the writers of our American revolution with whom I became acquainted in high school, my favorite is Thomas Paine. This was also the case with the colonists themselves, Paine's publications being bestsellers upon issuance. While I'd learned something about the man back then, I'd not known about his later participation in the French revolution or about his life in Britain. Fast covers these as well as the personal side of the man in his novel.
I read this when I was just a boy and really liked it; but that was before I knew Howard Fast was a Communist who wanted to take away "The Adventures of Superman" and Steak 'n' Shake and the Cardinals and replace them with The Adventures of Stalin and grass-and-weed sandwiches and The Stalingrad Stalins. I wouldn't have liked it if I'd known. Honest, Sen. McCarthy.
Amazingly interesting with such historical facts that so few will believe, yet it seems to be so true. WOW... The whole history of what we know about the Revolution is wrong. I have visited Tom Paine's grave in New Rochelle, NY. So simple and insignificant for such a great person.
Good story that can stir the soul, but not the best writtenThis story could range from something I couldn’t put down, to kind of a slog, in a page. Over all I did enjoy is, but it could be tough at times, and I believe it was the authors writing style that caused it.
A book worth reading every 50 years or so!
The historical facts about Paine and the events he was involved in seem to be accurately presented for the most part (although according to some sources his early apprenticeship as a "staymaker" may have involved ship's stays [ropes] rather than corsets); the interpretations at some points may be influenced by Fast's own views and the time it was written, but with Paine it is hard to charge anachronism -- he is the one figure that might have thought this way back then.Fast -- like Paine -- was a popular rather than a literary author, and the writing is not always good; there is a lot of repetition in the descriptions of Paine's appearance and his drinking habits.
Tom Paine is less a full-blooded character in Howard Fast’s breakout historical novel than some tormented, ghostly cheerleader who drifts, ZELIG-like, in and out of the American and French revolutions.
Americans love war stories where we lose—The Alamo, Little Big Horn, Pearl Harbor—and boy, did we lose in the Revolution, suffering battlefield defeat after defeat after defeat.
These were the people Tom Paine identified with and gave voice to.Sadly, the final third turns almost unbearably tragic as Paine attempts to re-work his same revolutionary magic in England, then France, only to look on, befuddled and disdained, as revolution curdles into civil unrest, the Reign of Terror, and the dictatorship of Napoleon.
It tells of Paine's lowly beginnings in England, his accidental meeting with Benjamin Franklin in London and his immigration, with Franklin's help, to America in 1774.
In 1776 with revolution in the wind and the public apathetic about fighting a war, he wrote Common Sense which explained in layman's terms the advantages of a republican form of government and thus, the need to separate from England's control.
When the war weary patriots enthusiasm flagged he began writing The Crisis Papers and once again energized the army.
After the war he considered himself a revolutionary, returned to England with the idea of revolutionizing England, France and eventually all of Europe into the Republic of Europe.
Fast's Citizen Tom Paine was thoroughly enjoyable.
This book requires some previous knowledge of the American and French Revolutions to be able to really immerse yourself in the story (John Jay being sent to England to hammer out the Jay Treaty and why it was necessary, Marat's murder, etc, are assumed the reader already knows these details, since Fast does little expansion on many events such as these).
Fast also did little developing of any character other than Paine.
Nevertheless, Fast's portrayal of Paine the man and his relationship with three countries at the end of the 18th century is a compelling narrative, and well worth a read for anyone interested in this era of history.

Actually it's 3.5Well, "Citizen Tom Paine" is an inspiring book! Don't get me wrong! However, it's not actually my cup of tea... In my opinion the book is more about the three Revolutions (it can even be repetitive at times in my opinion) than about its main character. You could say of course that Tom Paine's life was not only connected to, but synonymous with these historical events. This is true. His character's development throughout the book was very realistic and well portrayed. This fact combined with the finest writing are the reason for the 3.5 stars.
This biography of Thomas Paine, author of "Common Sense," is a riveting as any thriller.Paine has been neglected for decades because of his treatise on atheism. He was reviled as "godless" by the citizens of the United States -- even though those very citizens owed him an incalculable debt of gratitude.Howard Fast has written this novelized version of his life that at times strains credulity -- did Thomas Paine actually meet Napoleon? Probably not. But this slight weakness in plotting is insignificant compared to the novel's achievement.Fast breathes life into Paine.
Maybe it was because this book was required, but I found it very slow and hard to get through. Other than that, it is a good book and accurately described the events of Tom Paine's life. It was very informative of the culture of the late 18th century. Howard Fast related this culture in a very well educated manner.
This noble is an example of the many revolutions. They have all the same end. At the end, it need's always a Revolution. And one who light a fire, first to be burned. During the story, sometimes you think the story is boring. But when you see the whole story as one, you learn at least on thing...That's it!
this book is very informative but not htta fun to read. many parts of this book can be confusing to those who dont know there history or dont like to read history books. some infromation is not needed and the french half is not as detailed as the american half.
Thomas Paine is no doubt one of the greatest citizens of the world. Even in his "unshaven, hook-nosed, wigless head", he was inspiring, the very soul of revolution. Fast's historical novel has masterly depicted his life and is certainly worth reading.
Without Tom Paine, the people of what is now called the United States of America would still be subjects of the United Kingdom; and yet what gratitude was shown him in his old age? Infamy indeed rests forever with the City of Trenton, NJ, and the City of
Citizen Thomas Paine by Howard Fast was a fair book. It was very easy and repetitive. I didn't enjoy reading this book and found it to be boring. I wouldn't recommend this book unless you are fascinated with Thomas Paine or History.
Most interesting depiction of Paines life.
I read it in college in the 1970s.
Marvelous this novel was one of the first novels that I have read when I was 13 years old it is stuck in my head and one can read it over and over :)
I liked learning about how influential Tom Paine was during the American Revolution.
Interesting book. I know I learned about him in school, but there's so much more....not all of it flattering.
I loved this book.
I really like Howard Fast. Paine lived a really sad life but really contributed to America's beginning.
