https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6380822-the-dark-divine
I am not going to hide this review under a "contains spoilers" warning, because only a very young reader completely unaware of the current trend towards paranormal fiction or a severely mentally disabled person would not figure out the big mystery when, on page 64, Daniel "barks" at Grace when he invites her into his room and she makes the observation that, "It looked like someone had been keeping a large dog in this closet/room.
Whatever animal had been kept in here had apparently gotten out." A page later, Grace remarks that Daniel looks, "like a starved dog." The Dark Divine is filled with growls, howls, yelps ~ and even less subtle hints.
Okay, I know it's dorky to add my own book to my to-read list, but I was giddy about it being listed on GoodReads and I couldn't resist!
No, no, a thousand flipping times NO.I just don't get it. Like, how do books like this even make it to publishing when they are two steps away from being misogynistic/religious propaganda at worst and brain-numbing fluff at best? And yet once again, I was totally and completely struck silly by the ZOMG GORGEOUS COVER and thought hey, with a cover like that, how could it be *that* bad?I really need to start learning.So, here is basically what The Dark Divine is about, since having not done too
Her religious thought process is enough to make you want to hurl your breakfast, while she reminds us ad nauseam of what a good little Christian girl she is, and by the way, you'd better be too, or you're going to BURN IN HELL.No, I'm not making this up-- the entire book reads like a freaking fire-and-brimstone church sermon.As if this wasn't enough to make me want to slap her silly, Grace also treats her friends like minions.
Yeah, the ENTIRE story reads like Grace is Daniel's pretty piece of property to shove around however he wants.
And you shouldn’t even consider thinking of her as a completely (synonym for selfish) (word that rhymes with witch), she’s just in love and you would like, totally do the same thing if it were you.But of course, in all this (synonym for obsessive) time they’re spending together, our young lovers won’t be consummating their towering inferno of feelings because (he’ll accidentally kill her in the process/this book is completely unrealistic/this book is full of sexist, puritanical overtones/parents will freak out and refuse to buy it for their teens, thus hurting sales – circle two).
Why now, after all this time?” Grace Divine, daughter of the local pastor, always knew something terrible happened the night Daniel Kalbi disappeared—the night she found her brother Jude collapsed on the porch, covered in blood.
Both Grace and Daniel draw/paint, him better than her, and it’s a very cool common bond they share.The ending was handled wonderfully.
I had my guesses but so did Grace but neither of us knew until it was there.It’s written in Grace’s POV the entire time.
But like I explained above Bree had me second guessing myself the entire book.
Having said that, Despain manages to explain her fantasy elements and give good foreshadowing clues, Grace's family is actually involved in her life (although I found her pastor family a little too tainted by Mormon family), I liked Grace and Daniel some of the time (him more than her), and the end surprised me.
I wanted to know why Grace wasn't reading the letters I think she would have devoured.
The climax was good, and I like said surprised me, but I wanted more going into it.I'm not sure what to rate it.
WHAT IS WITH THE HUGE BOLDED FONT?
I've been a bit busy with school.The Gist: Good girl Grace Divine (*cringes at name*), daughter of the local pastor, has a run-in with her childhood friend Daniel, now a mysterious bad boy, whom she hasn't seen in years since he disappeared- and left her brother in a pool of blood.
To make things worse, the cutest, smartest, most athletic senior on campus, Pete, is madly in love with her, but as I predicted, she stomps over his niceness to run straight to emo jerk Daniel, who doesn't even treat her like a person for about half the book (until he takes a heel face turn and becomes a suddenly sweet loving model boyfriend).
Well, the relationship in this story was very well-done and evenly paced, and the "paranormal" aspect was so incredibly original and entertaining, so it felt like I was reading something completely fresh and new.
Maybe they *should*, but...) But that one little mention is the only thing that I can think of to say about this book: aside from the Divine family's kind-of blatant portrayal, all the characters were very real, very well-rounded, and easy to relate to.
It!The pages inside are just as full of intrigue and mystery as the beautiful cover itself!Wow!
Not only was there great charactizations, extraordinary writing and a infallible mystery, but the story itself was just spectacular!I loved Despain's talent of weaving ideas of mythology seamlessly into the everyday world.
The daily struggle of Grace's life, being the person she wants to be, and being the person that everyone expects her to be as a preacher's daughter, marvelously parallels the life of the everyday teenager....
preacher father or not.
I enjoyed reading about these characters and watching the plot unfold and the mystery ultimately revealed.
In Divine, Grace is so busy trying to do whatever she thinks is the morally right thing -- respect her parents, listen to her brother, help Daniel, put up with the local charity case -- that she's completely wrapped up in the darker deeds around her (because c'mon, no church-going gal should be THAT laid back about the kind of party she walked into at Daniel's) until her deductions hit her on the head like a proverbial ton'o'bricks.But here are the biggest ways that The Dark Divine is unlike any of its similar sister novels -- Grace is a church kid, and darn it, she's cool with that.
It was such a piece of uncreative trash--all Despain did was take the Twilight story and tweak it so that the 'bad boy' was a ***SPOILER ALERT***hell hound rather than a vamp.
(For the record, that also happens in Twilight.) I would rather read a poorly written original story than one with pretty packaging that's a total rip-off.
I'm a Christian, but I also got completely fed-up with Despain's overbearing religious slant in the novel (and I've read several Christian novels that were nothing like hers).
The Dark Divine is truly an amazing book!
It captured my heart from page one, and took me on an amazing ride of suspense, mystery, conviction, and unconditional love.
I appreciated the amount of back history she put into their origin of the Urbat.
The contrast their original nature as Heaven's Hounds, to their later downfall, Hounds of death.
The Divine family is one that I totally related with!
My heart broke for our prodigal ...
Artistically beautiful, The Dark Divine is a story with redemptive qualities where true love conquers all!Now it's time to go hunt for Jude in "The Lost Saint"!
I really relish the opportunity to get to know authors better through books.
I love Grace the main character and I have a suspicion the apple didn't fall far from the tree.
I bet there's a lot of Bree in Grace.
Daniel is a wonderful hero and I appreciate the fresh take on werewolves.
The characters were really easy to relate to and it had a surprise ending, my favorite kind!
Headed to my bookshelf immediately after finishing to search for my copy of The Lost Saint.
I feel like I just tapped into this world and its going to take me to interesting and exciting places.
I am totally and absolutely awestruck by this apparent reveal which was just ignored all of this time for complete plot fodder and wankery!"Yeah well, some of us just weren't, alright?Now, before I continue - I just wanted to say the worst thing about this book - like many others - is that this book had potential to be great.
(view spoiler)[I also, sure as hell do not buy into the deux ex machina ending of Daniel being saved because Grace saved him through "the magical powers of love".
(view spoiler)[Like take the moment when Daniel infodumps to her about him being a werewolf urbat thing - and she goes home to think over it.
But whereas many of the YA paranormal romance books out there these days fall flat on their faces when it comes to the characters and the plot, this one does not.
Despain tells her story in such a way that made me eager for any Grace-Daniel scenes.
Unlike many other paranormal romances, there was actually a plot in this story!
It was evidently well-researched and well-developed, making for a solid plot with heart-pounding scenes.Despain's take on the paranormal in THE DARK DIVINE was really, really good.
The paranormal being in her story is very often used, but I think Despain's version ranks among the best.
Grace finds her brother bloody on their front porch one night and the next day their childhood friend Daniel, disappears.
No one ever tells Grace exactly what happened that fateful night.
Just that Daniels name is to never be mentioned in their house again.Several years pass and one day when Grace walks into her Art class she discovers that Daniel has returned.
Daniel has come back out of love and hope that Grace maybe the one to cure him of his "disease".I really liked this book, and it doesn't hurt that it takes place in my home state ;) A must read, the end is eyebrow raising and will leave you wanting to snatch up The Lost Saint right after finishing it.
More like 3.5 stars.I was so exited about this book!
Ballads of Suburbia is a hard book to follow, I kept thinking about it long after I was supposed to be into this one.
Even though I really liked the romance part, I didn't feel so much the supernatural.
What I liked the most was the ending, it will be great to see how the story goes on.I've discovered while discussing this book, that I may have a dislike tendency for good girls as main characters.
Still, it is an interesting read for those of you who enjoy love story/supernatural.
The best thing about The Dark Divine was the pace of the plot: it was fast but not too fast, and held my interest long enough for me to finish it in a day.
It just wasn't believable enough; sometimes the passion was there, like during the end of the book, but most of the time I was thinking," wait, how did you guys fall in love again?" Overall, their romance was a bit too shallow and far-fetched.For the most part I really loved The Dark Divine.
Hopefully readers will be able to see Grace and Daniel's bond strengthen and progress in the next book of the series, The Lost Saint.
My Thoughts:I'm going to try my best to write this review without spoilers which is gonna be difficult given this book is mainly about Daniel's "secret".Anyway,Grace is the daughter of a pastor & stepford wife-esque mother.
When she was younger, she & her older brother were close to a neighborhood kid Daniel which ended abruptly when he disappeared the night her older brother (Jude) came home beat up to all hell.
I even enjoyed the religious aspect although I felt like it was being shoved down my throat a few times.
THE DARK DIVINE is an interesting but ultimately underwhelming read that will still be eagerly embraced by paranormal romance fans of Twilight, Shiver, and other similar books.The best thing about THE DARK DIVINE was the way it rewrote the typical werewolf story and infused it with history, magic, religion, and the balance of good and evil.
Daniel started out as stereotypical, but as the plot finally built and his background was finally revealed, he turned into a much more believable character.As for the romance, it felt like one that I’ve read many times before: good girls feels undeniable attraction with bad boy, who acts like a jerk initially but actually reciprocates the feelings, and True Love Ends Happily Ever After.
At the very first chapter I feel like this was probably a good story and idk, but with the first chapter alone I know that I'd love the book.
But then I think in the middle of the book, strange things begin to happen and you get the feeling that this is a paranormal romance book.
At first my guess it would be a vampire story or a fallen angel story and idk I become really disappointed when I've learned that it was a werewolf story.This book is promising, but a li'l bit disappointing.
So if you love these books you will probably like this one too.
The heroine did not hide her feelings for the hero, but it never made her appear desperate or weak.
The last time Daniel was seen was when Grace's brother, Jude, came home covered in his own blood.
Grace has always loved Daniel, but Jude keeps telling her to stay away from him - that he is dangerous.
Most annoying character had to be Grace's BFF, April.
April is dating Jude, but I think she is only friends with Grace to get to her brother.
April was odd.I have the second book, but I am not sure if I will read it.
Die Five Books Challenge ist hiermit beendet! Darf also ab jetzt wieder Bücher kaufen :D Fand das Buch sehr gut muss ich sagen, werde die Reihe auf jedenfall weiter verfolgen.
Pero todo este fantástico equilibrio se rompe con la llegada de Daniel Kalbi, un chico rebelde amigo de la infancia de ambos hermanos, quien huyó hace una par de años de la ciudad, de su madre y del amparo que la familia Divine le ofrecía.
Obviamente, es culpado de cosas que jamás ha hecho, tiene que luchar contra el odio y la envidia del no tan perfecto hermano de Grace y la antipatía de la madre de la familia Divine, quien de paso es bastante obsesiva compulsiva (espero que ese detalle sirva para la segunda parte, porque la verdad SOBRABA).
I mean, it was supposed to be Daniel who was the major "bad guy" in Jude's mind...but what did he think he was acting like?
He scared Grace more than Daniel did!Now, for the reason I won't say, Jude has an excuse for acting out of character, but EVEN considering said reason, he still acted like a jerk.
The second she found out what Daniel had done, she turned her back on him and told him to leave for good--not because she wanted to, but because she felt like she HAD to, because she owed it to the stupid, annoying Jude, her beloved 17 going on 7-year-old BIG brother!!!
We have a kind of unusual triangle between a sister, Grace, who loves her brother Jude and wants to be loyal to him, but is also captivated by Daniel, who used to be their neighbor and friend until Grace's family adopted him.
Except that Grace is a good, obedient, and honest girl, so she tries to manipulate her family into accepting Daniel into their lives again.At first I found it refreshing that Grace was such a good kid.
After all, some very important information had been withheld from Grace, namely, what did Daniel do to make him persona non grata in her family?
When a child hood friend, and someone who was once consider part of the family returns nothing will be the same.When Daniel returns, things start getting weird around Grace's town, and a dark Divine secret won't be kept secret for long.
There's something about him that Grace can't fight.Daniel is one tense character that you'll be so drawn to, you can't help but sucked into this story, as you want to know more about him and what he's hiding.
Buckle up and enjoy the ride Bree takes you on as Grace is on a mission to make things right with her family, her town and with Daniel, but everything comes at a cost.
The love subplot and werewolf bits felt forced compared to the rest of the story, which wasn't brilliantly written, but certainly kept my interest for longer.
The love plot was samey and nothing I've not read before in much better, more original books.I was disappointed that the book's heroine fell into so many of the pothols associated with paranormal YA heroines - she had a lot of interesting traits, certainly more than many other heroines, but they all seemed to be shoved aside the moment the love story came into it.
Far too message-laden (with Biblical teachings) and also tries too hard to escape from the very anger it seems to rail against; forgetting the ability to use "grace" in the face of intolerable betrayal.
Main female character was so clueless and spineless, I was surprised she survived til the end of the story.
For example; she was smart enough to pick out some sharply worded phrases by some of the other characters who'd sought to insult her family, yet she had no idea (nor care for) of the lies that were being perpetrated about her around school.
