https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183116.The_Secret_of_the_Mansion
Trixie Belden was not perfect.
yes!My Mom bought me two Trixie Belden books to take on a family vacation to Florida the summer after 2nd grade.
I immediately re-read them.
Then I spent the next few years buying the remaining new ones off of bookshelves, scouring garage sales and flea markets, and crawling through the stacks of used book shelves.
If I read the last Trixie Belden book, there will never be another Bob-White adventure.
I prefer to go on knowing that there is one more out there waiting to be read.
Read Trixie Belden.
They were poorly made book club editions, with hideous covers, a school library edition of some kind, not a hard-back, but not a soft-cover either.I read them into tatters.
Reuniting with Trixie and Honey and Di, and Jim Frayne, my original book boyfriend, and Brian and the irritating Mart, is like becoming myself all over again.Sometimes I think that people are the most themselves when they are around ten years old, before peer pressure weighs them down, and they start to question what they love, to edit themselves for an audience.
When I read Trixie Belden, I am ten.
Trixie Belden enjoys a glorious summer exploring and hanging out with her friends.
Trixie and friends experience lots of fun activities and their adventures bring back fond memories of fearless summer escapades in my own youth.I didn’t read these as a child, but the characters are certainly very relatable and realistic; they are definitely in line with the type of childhood I had.
The only aspect that didn’t match my own childhood was that these kids knew everything -- from how to handle a snake bite to rigging up an outdoor shower.
Trixie and her friends were all resourceful, level-headed, and brave in distressing situations and helpful, caring young people in calm everyday matters.
A formulaic series, but what a formula!!! I read probably 95% of the Trixie Belden series growing up and can't wait for Amanda to get into them.Trixie is a girl detective, much like Nancy Drew, only (I think) much better (and I did like Nancy).To avoid diluting my goodreads list, I'll spare rating them individually, but know that I recommend them all whole-heartedly.
I adored the Trixie Belden series and read all of them for years. I truly credit this series, along with a few others, with fostering my voracious love of reading, and also with sowing the seeds of love of the Adventure/Quest novel. Trixie is a spunky, smart heroine, and I really wanted to be her when I was a girl. Can't wait to share with my daughter one day.
(I read the Nancy Drew books when I was eight or nine and Trixie Belden at twelve, and I feel those are good ages for each even though Nancy is a few years older than Trixie.)So, impressions:1.
Trixie is way older than I thought, and that explains a lot about some of the details.
But Trixie comes off as a realistic, slightly tomboyish adolescent, her friend Honey is realistically timid based on her background, Jim is a great mix of tough and tender, and the adults are all a lot of fun.
Two years ago I finally read a Betsy-Tacy book and felt like a big dope when I discovered how sweet and adorable it was and realized how much I would have loved it as a kid.
When I opened the first Trixie Belden book, The Secret of the Mansion, to the first page and read the first sentence, I felt very smug.
But then I kept reading, and I discovered that Trixie Belden was a little more complicated than she first appeared.
(One of her friends whom I particularly obsessed with is Di, the newly rich, Elizabeth Taylor-esque beauty with black hair and "flashing violet eyes").I discovered Secret of the Mansion in an antique store when I was 11.
Trixie quickly labels Honey a priss for riding in fancy breeches but soon learns she has been sickly and sheltered, having been raised by her loyal governess Miss Trask.
Honey and Trixie soon become best friends.
Upon "exploring" (breaking into) an old miser's spooky mansion, the girls discover a teenage boy name Jim Frayne asleep on a mattress on the floor.
What I finally did stumble upon was this read and it had so much to offer a little girl looking for some mystery mixed with a whole lot of relatable main character.
I mean seriously, with a name like Trixie who couldn’t resist?With my beginner’s love of mysteries just getting its start with the previous series, I would say this was perfect for cementing it in.
The odds were good I crushed a little on one of Trixie’s older brothers or another one of the boys that was represented in the series.
When I was a kid, before my dad died, he used to take me to the bookstore when my mom was shopping. He bought me any book I wanted and of course it was a Trixie Beldon book every time! This popped into my head driving home from work tonight. It was no Harry Potter but it was what we loved as kids.
Oh, how I devoured their adventures!A perfect summer read and even if it'll be a bit of a different read for younger kids these days, given how old timey it can read at times, it was full of charm and reminded me a lot of both very loved books I read when I was Trixie's age and also of the summers of my childhood, that I also spent under very little supervision, safely roaming and playing around in a small village, far from the rest-of-the-year-life-in-the-city!Trixie was both an endearing and irritating character at the same time, because she was sweet and enthusiastic but could also be a bit too quick to judge and rather prone to act first and think later!
I know many wonderful people who love, love, love Trixie.
My earliest memories of this series center around a supermarket in Coldwater Michigan which sold cheap Whitman hardcovers for 69 cents.
Every so often, if I'd completely run out of REAL books (which is to say, books about HORSES), my mom would buy me a Whitman book.
I remember the odd Trixie Belden, but didn't retain anything more concrete than a dismissive sort of feeling.At the urging of some people whose taste in kidlit I respect, I revisited the first of the series.
:)A great start to a wonderful series that is still making an impact in my life.
But this book gets everything off to a great start.
How could I not have fallen in love with a series whose opening line is, "Oh, Moms, I'll just die if I don't have a horse!" Although I read and enjoyed Nancy Drew, it was so much easier to relate to Trixie, who loved horses, had annoying brothers, hated dusting, and didn't do well in math.
But more than anything, the friendships in this series is what drew me to it, and has held me to it, 30-some years later.
3.5 stars
I found an old copy of a Nancy Drew book at the thriftstore...and that got me thinking about all those Trixie adventures I read as a kid.
As kids will, they go poking around Frayne's house, wanting to get a look inside just once when the unfriendly old man isn't around to chase them off.
It remained out of print until 2003, when the early books in the series were reprinted by Random House Publishers.
Looks like I'm going to be hunting up a lot of used books to read the whole series!
Even though the Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew TV show was a big hit at the time, like much of my generation, I was hooked on Trixie Belden.
These were the first books that I bought on my own -- waiting until the newest were published, scrambling to find the older copies that were slightly cheaper, taking them to the counter all by myself.
Though upon reading again a few years ago, I discovered that the original author was far better and more authentic with the 50's mentality--since she was actually writing then, the whole series had me enthralled well into my tweens.
Even after re-reading many times, I still think they are the best.
I am reviewing the first fifteen books.
I am 60 years old and I can still remember how much I loved these books.
Trixie and Honey were my best friends.
(I later completed my set through e-bay.
I had the hardbacks with the portraits of Trixie and Honey on the inside cover.
They had the full color illustrations that I just loved.
I trace my penchant for twin sweater sets from #8 in which Trixie, Honey and Di wore them in different colors.
I still have my set of books that I read many many times.
Meet Trixie, Honey, and Jim as the trio form a friendship and hunt for the treasure that is supposed to be in Jim's great uncle's old house.This is a very favorite series from childhood on, and I just love meeting the characters again for the first time. They aren't quite themselves yet, and can be annoying as a result. Just know they grow stronger from their friendships by the next in the series.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
It makes me miss living with a yard and garden and being an indestructible kid again.
These are great stories for young girls and even boys if they like reading about girl characters who help solve mysteries.
Technology is wonderful, I am reading these books digitally after all, but I do miss the time when our lives weren’t ruled by all our gadgets and people actually spent time outside and doing things.
I hear my grandmother laughing at me from the great beyond at how I have become the old fart talking about the “olden days”.
I was wondering if I would like Trixie as well at 58 as I did at 11 or 12 (or whenever I read it as a child).
I have a different perspective of Trixie than I did when I was a child.
I'm wondering if I will remember them as we get further into the series.One nice thing about reading a "kids" mystery is that you don't have dead bodies to contend with so someone that would like a cozy with no murder should consider reading some of the YA books like this.
Over Thanksgiving, we had fun digging through Mom and Dad's closet to find Sheila's old set of Trixie Belden books. She's missing some of them, but I'm going to spend some time re-reading the ones we found. I won't do an entry for each one, so you might not hear from me for awhile. We both LOVED these books growing up!!
This is my favorite mystery series I've ever read - and it's so much better than Nancy Drew, I've realized, after reading so many of her books for The Nancy Drew Project. Definitely read these books, especially the first six! I totally recommend it. :)
(Tbh, I still love it.) The characters were so darn funny, and relatable, and MY AGE, which was pretty new, for a kid who read mostly classics xDSecond reason, because these were legitimately good books.
But as a kid, they made me want to solve every little almost-mystery around the house.
They made me think about the future, because I wanted to do something big like Jim. They made me dream bigger, even if they were a little unrealistic.
It introduced the main characters (Trixie and Honey) and you got to learn a little bit about the others (Mart and Brian, and Jim).
Trixie Beldon was my favorite detective when I was a kid, and I read the whole series more than once ...
this first book and the second that followed were the two best, and I still enjoyed them very much as I read them yesterday.
just re-read this first installment, and again fell in love with these believable characters.
Going to enjoy the series again, reading with a friend!
just needed a quick read, and thoroughly enjoyed Trixie again.
just wanted to revisit my childhood so read the first two books again.

Trixie cant believe she's stuck in sleepy side all summer while her lucky brothers are away at camping .Then the millionaire''s daughter moves in next door , a runway kid hides out nearby and rumors heat up that the old mansion on the hill is filled with a fortune .
This book has 20 different chapter titles ,also there is a lot of characters in the story .
I think that the story was quite bet difficult because, it was too long and there is a lot of adventures but after that i liked the story and the different action that happened.
I'm sure I read these as a kid. Didn't I notice the boring lack of plot and weird way jim's age seems to change from college-scholarship-denied to 15? Extra love for the independence of the teenagers, I had forgotten how much we were treated like responsible grown-ups at 14, long ago. Plot got interesting finally in the second-to-last chapter. Trixie enjoyed another book with her name in it, but even she was unenthralled until the end.
i love trixie belden books! they're soooo exciting!
I am giving this book 3 stars solely because these books were the beginning of my love with all things reading (well when I got past the little kid books anyway).
I remember loving the tom-boy nature of Trixie (which I was myself), the easy friendship she immediately had with the new neighbour Honey, and the mysteries and adventures they had together.Now in 2017 when I read book 1 with adult eyes I see everything differently and I would probably give the book 2 stars.
Right now though, I'm not even itching to pick up book 2 even a little.
I have read this series so much that I feel like I know the characters as well, if not better, than I know my school classmates.
Trixie is THE ONLY teenage detective for me.I am working my way through re-reading this series again because I love it so, and because at this time in my life I need to revert to my childhood a little and forget what it is like being an adult.
