https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18505796-10-happier
A heartbreaking work of staggering genius.
I fucking loved this book. It's the most compelling introduction to meditation I've seen, after spending hundreds of dollars buying books on the subject. I have a therapy practice that is mindfulness-based. I often recommend informative-but-boring mindfulness-related books to people that they don't often finish. They'll almost certainly finish this one. It's terrific.
He is a charming guide on this search for a better way and you will meet some familiar names and learn of some others who should be.Harris offers small bits on Peter Jennings and Diane Sawyer, among other ABC news folks.
But the business at hand is not just about getting a fix on people like Deepak Chopra, it is about Harris trying to find his way past his personal limitations.
The first step, of course was to realize that the ego was on camera all the time, offering a live feed, an internal, personal, and less than wonderful 24/7 personal news channel.
It's more of a memoir than a book about learning to meditate - something I do.
But to read this book you must read about the life of this privileged rich white guy who has no social conscious and little interest in the people around him other than what he can exploit for a story.
His arrogance is present in the subtitle - he reduced stress and kept his edge.
But he never had an edge as far as I could tell.
While the encouragement to meditate is positive, he has nothing new to say about the process.
With my mind racing with mostly unproductive worries and nags, I've been thinking that I should try mediation to calm the tumult and find 'flow' again.The problem has been finding a guide to meditation that isn't complete granola claptrap.
From what I know of Buddhism as a whole, this is absolutely kosher (though correct me if I'm wrong).I like that Harris clung to his misgivings about Eckhart Tolle (whom he  finds a bit too whack-a-doodle) and Deepak Chopra (whom he considers to be insincere), and sought meditation practitioners and teachers whose practise is more deeply rooted in 'the real world'.
I think its why most people find their way into spiritual practices- something isn't working quite right in their life and they need to change from the inside out.
So, they look for a process of inner change and run smack into meditation.However, Dan isn't drinking the kool-aid of the new age movement.
Harris isn't afraid to point that out.In conclusion, I'd recommend 10% Happier to anyone who wants to become 10% happier- isn't that all of us?Also, anyone who has read Eckhart Tolle or Deepak Chopra may also enjoy this, if only for the surprisingly accurate descriptions of their foibles.
When I read the description of this book (I listened to the audio version) I said, "OK, newsman, tell me how to be happier."Dan Harris is an anchor for ABC, and in this story (which reads more like a memoir than a self-help guide) he details his own struggles early in his career.
Dan is personable and funny, but he looks at the world of self-help and meditation with the eyes of an investigative reporter, which I greatly appreciated.
If you want to start your own journey of becoming at least 10% happier...
On the advice of a friend, he read Eckhart Tolle's bestselling book, A New Earth, which then led him to Deepak Chopra's books, and then Harris became interested in meditation.
The book also works as a primer to meditation, and Harris includes some good tips to anyone interested in trying to meditate.
But it was in this moment, lying in bed late at night, that I first realized that the voice in my head — the running commentary that had dominated my field of consciousness since I could remember — was kind of an asshole.""Meditation was radically altering my relationship to boredom, something I'd spent my whole life scrambling to avoid ...
Which is ironic, as 'ego' is why he first started meditating in the first place.His interactions with Eckhart Tolle and Deepak Chopra are, however, hilarious - and I sincerely enjoyed how skeptically he approached the entire topic.
Perhaps a bit too skeptically at times - his distrust of the entire subject had more to do with his own discomfort, instead of true skepticism of the science behind mindfulness.There was a bit too much name dropping for me, and I found the discussions on mindfulness, mediation and Buddhism a bit cursory.
Well, I watched that ol’ Minimalists documentary on Netflix, and there’s ol’ Dan Harris talking about having a panic attack on live TV.
Harris talks about some of the new age thinkers and writers he comes into contact with, people I’ve heard of, but this crash course was really helpful.
He just talked to a lot of different people and tried some very interesting, weird stuff to lead him to a place where he’s happier.
All in all, this was not necessarily helpful, but it was a good story to read, and exposed me to new ideas and philosophies out there.
A news anchor memoir spliced with banal ruminations about discovering meditation and the author's experiences with the self help industry.
He marketed the book around a standard life trope, which was an unexpected meltdown (this time on live television) which resulted in self seeking discovery.
This isn't how the book is structured at all and his "meltdown" seems to have had no clear effects on him at all, especially since his "discovery" comes mainly because he is assigned to cover religion as part of his job as a news anchor.
Who has a meltdown, has a "self discovery" and yet retains the same life structures as before.
Dan Harris wanted to title this book "The voice in my head is an asshole." When I heard that line I knew I was in good hands.
Harris, whose celebrity has escaped me since I don't watch much television, is the perfect blend of smart-ass skeptic and spiritual seeker.
The great thing about this book (essentially a memoir) is that Harris is in perfect alignment with my own cynical view and utter fascination with the world of self-help and Buddhism.
To sum it up...I really enjoyed this book and would recommend it to anyone who wants to quiet their "monkey mind" and learn from sincere and unaffected teachers.
I've never really gone in for the self-help genre much, but Dan Harris' writing is incredibly genuine and this book is as much a personal memoir as it is inspirational. Harris as an anchorman made headlines himself after having a panic attack live, and decided it was time to overcome not only the stress of his career, but also the stigma of having a bad day as a professional. With a positive and often humorous outlook, his book is a strong reminder of why it's important to not let the little things in life matter so much.
He does a great job of demystifying meditation. In an enjoyable way he recounts his own experiences, from skepticism to belief in, & explains what he's learned from others along the way.
Don't You Know You've Gotta Shock the Monkey! Step Back, Then Move Forward with More FocusI need to re-commit to the concepts of meditation and mindfulness. My "monkey mind" has returned. "Monkey mind" is the term Dan Harris and some others in the field use to describe in himself and his fellow Type A's (as I am), the crazy internal dialogue that no one but you could ever follow, in which your mind swings from one unrelated branch of thought to another, preventing you from fully honing in on an
Step Back, Then Move Forward with More FocusI need to re-commit to the concepts of meditation and mindfulness.
"Monkey mind" is the term Dan Harris and some others in the field use to describe in himself and his fellow Type A's (as I am), the crazy internal dialogue that no one but you could ever follow, in which your mind swings from one unrelated branch of thought to another, preventing you from fully honing in on any one thing and taking enjoyment out of present moments as each comes, since your thoughts always roam in the past or travel to the future.
New title suggestion: "90% egotistical"
Dan Harris is a television journalist and news-anchor for the ABC network.
which triggered his quest for reducing his stress.Harris was given the assignment to cover stories related to religion and faith.
Harris even went to a ten-day silent meditation retreat.
But for a day or two, he experience the highest high of his life.This isn't really a self-help book.
The book describes Harris' journey through his journalist and television news career, and the enlightenment that he gradually attained.
It was fascinating, fun, entertaining, and I recommend it to everyone.I didn't read this book; I listened to the audiobook, narrated by Dan Harris.
As one of my GR friends said, this came across more like an autobiography than self-help, which I really liked.
But he tied it all together.I liked his humor.
He had a nice balance of honesty and self-deprecating humor.
It also would have been easy for him to hide his drug addictions and even his depression, but I liked that he told his story without making it all sound highly dramatized.
I read a lot of autobiographies and what stood out with this one, is that the events he chose to include were just that...it wasn't a story about them, but about him.
Very disappointing!
All fluff, no substance!First I have to admit, I am not a US citizen and I had never heard of Dan Harris before.
I realized reading some of the reviews here, he is somewhat of a celebrity in the states, which may explain why so many people found his anecdotes fun and interesting.
I read it because I was hoping for some more insights on the topic of happiness and meditation, but this was certainly one of the most shallow books on this topic.
If you see me reading list so far, you may agree that Dan Harris' book adds nothing new.
Surprisingly good read and not what I was expecting. Recommended for anyone curious about meditation and mindfulness. Harris does a great job of breaking down all the fluffy and ‘hippy’ terminology that usually get associated with meditation. He also brings the benefits to life by showing how it helped him. A very honest account and nicely told.
This is also the first book that I've read on meditation that was approached from a journalists point of view.
If Dan Harris ends up writing another book I will definitely be interested in reading it.
As a bonus here are a few status updates I wrote while reading the book:"Dan Harris takes a big dump on self help gurus for a couple chapters.
Then when it doesn't work the explanation you get is that it's your own fault because you don't believe hard enough in whatever confusing theory they're selling you.""Dan Harris is just as big a skeptic as I am about religion and self help gurus apparently.
He next reads the work of Dr Mark Epstein based on advice from his wife on Buddhist practices with focus on meditation which interests him.
As he brings in the principles of compassion with meditation in his life, he finds his relationships as well his work situation getting a lot better.Associated with ABC, he takes the lead in researching and broadcasting stories on Mindfulness.
That said, his overall conclusions ring true and he is certainly right about most of the literature we regard as “Self Help”.In today's age, this is an excellent book to read.
Great, down-to-earth "regular guy's" introduction to meditation. Also, a quick, fun read. For me, the book came into my life at a unique time. I'm a Stage IV melanoma patient. I've been meaning to enroll myself in a MBSR program (ala Kabat-Zinn) as I know meditation is an important tool. Reading Dan's book sealed it for me. I've enrolled in a program and, in preparation, have been practicing for 10 minutes/day using one of Kabat-Zinn's CD programs. Thanks Dan.
Ive read countless books on anxiety looking for some new takes on self help and reassurance that I'm not alone with this illness.
I couldn't get past the first 3 pages of this book.
When I realized this was a famous news anchor I immediately looked up his infamous panic attack on YouTube and felt insulted.
If that what is considered a panic attack then what is happening to me?
He hardly misses a beat on the air and was admittedly doing a lot of drugs at the time.
I may try to pick it up again but felt deeply disappointed after reading such strong reviews.
4.5 stars.
I loved everything about this.
I'm not into self-help at all, so Dan's critical and questioning attitude worked really well in convincing a sceptic like me.
I have even started meditating on a daily basis.
I highly recommend this to anyone who enjoys A.J. Jacobs writing.The Story: After having a nationally televised panic attack on Good Morning America, Dan Harris knew he had to make some changes.
A lifelong non-believer, he found himself on a bizarre adventure, involving a disgraced pastor, a mysterious self-help guru, and a gaggle of brain scientists.
But then I recalled that one of my heroes, neuroscientist and atheist, Sam Harris (who, much to my pleasure, makes a cameo in this book), is a practitioner of mediation.
So I decided to give this book by Dan Harris (no relation) a listen.
With a dry wit that had me laughing out loud (thus making me look like a maniac on my drive to work), he pretty much accomplishes what he sets out to do.My only complaint is that except for one portion in the book where he describes the breathing process of mediation, I’m not really sure how to go about deepening my understanding of just how to do this thing.
Actually, I’m not sure what I expected: the title, 10% Happier, suggested to me something akin to Gretchen Rubin’s somewhat inane Happiness Project, which I didn’t care for.
The happier through meditation thing is tough for Harris, though, because he finds it easy to jump to conclusions about soft-spoken hippies named Spring who exhort everyone to love all living beings.I’ve already bought into meditation, hippies named Spring or no, but I haven’t really been able to incorporate it into my life as much as I’d like.
Since it happened a week after my attendance of the OUAT con where Lana Parrilla mentioned how meditation was important to her happiness which surprised me at the time, I felt like the universe was smacking me with a WAKE UP AND MEDITATE call.This book is awesome sauce on multiple levels.
It was fun reading about the experience of a a news person writing stories, exploring the world, and rising the ranks.Dan was resistant to the idea of mediation etc which made me feel better.
I'll be reading the Epstein book next....
I liked the approach of how he first wrote about his life and introduced himself to people like me (who have never heard his name before).
I also really enjoyed the journalistic approach to the whole business of meditation and self-help machinery and his own experiences with this.But the most important part for me was that I realized the state he was striving to reach was what I have lost.So of course now my problem isn't fixed, but it convinced me to look more into meditation and see if it can help me get back into a more happy me.
Dan’s retelling of his first attempt at meditation and his stay at the retreat reminded me of A J Jacobs books – self-deprecating and very very funny.I have tried once before to read about meditation and found it informative enough to want to give Eckhart Tolle a try as everyone seems to rave about this uber enlightened man.
Clearly that was not for me.This is not a book about spirituality or meditation per se but rather captures the experience of one man trying hard to find himself.
