https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2097601.Rogue_Herries
Two later Herries books were The Bright Pavilions and Katherine Christian.As historical background, link:  the Jacobite rising of 1745: it was the attempt by Charles Edward Stuart to regain the British throne for the exiled House of Stuart.
The Battle of Culloden ended with the final defeat of the Jacobite cause, and with Charles Edward Stuart fleeing with a price on his head, before finally sailing to France.An important fact to be mentioned about Hugh Walpole's as a writer: from FadedPage: he was one of the most popular authors of his times, until his literary reputation was destroyed by Somerset Maugham.Herries Chronicles series:5* Rogue HerriesTR Judith ParisTR The FortressTR VanessaTR The Bright Pavilions TR Katherine ChristianRising City series:TR The Duchess of WrexeTR The Green MirrorTR The Captives
This chronicle takes you through several generations of a family that lives in the Lake District, England, starting in the late seventeen hundreds.
His characters, too, become so alive to the reader because, I think, he immersed himself in them totally.
Not every novel reader wants that, but I love it, especially when the characters are quirky, which Walpole's often are.
At the risk of giving away my age, I admit to having owned the Herries Chronicle for the best part of thirty years (I was very, very young when I first obtained it!) and have read it time and again.
This is a 'must read' chronicle for readers who love total immersion, and who love English literature.
Bettie's Books
I can only say that I loved this book. Warpoles discriptions of the landscapes and countryside surrounding the setting of the book are so visible to the minds eye! The characters are such a complete mixture of personalities that I found the book compelling reading. The father is a strange and fearsome man that uproots his family to the bleak landscape of his childhood. He is cruel and hard, but somehow intriguing. He was so odd you just had to read on to see how the family survived the hardships he put them through.
To the modern reader "thoughtful and meticulous" might be perceived as slow and over-elaborate but I personally liked very much the careful unveiling of the 50 or so years covered by this first of four volumes.The main characters, Rogue Herries and his son David are well drawn with Francis (Rogue) being especially complex and troubled.
The novel is set in the early to mid eighteenth century and Walpole captures the mood of change very well.
I particularly liked Walpole's capture of the people's adherence at this time to what are almost medieval beliefs and the mystical feel to some events.The whole saga was unbelievably cheap on Kindle and I will look forward to catching with the Herries family in the future.
Not even remotely what I expected going into it. Dark, with happy endings for some, tragedy and misunderstandings which were entirely avoidable by simply being an adult and having a conversation about stuff, and some disturbing storylines, presumably more appropriate away back when? Disposable characters, and a protagonist who, though I'm sure some people are like that, was mercurial and imo had some sort of personality disorder, make for a strange story, with many subplots. Part of me is curious about the next installment, but I may leave it for a while.
To be honest, and at the risk of sounding like a complete philistine ...
I didn't really enjoy this book at all.
I only read it because I like the Watendlath area, so felt I should, but that's a bit like reading "Tess of the D'Urbevilles" because Stonehenge is in it.
The descriptive narrative was far too much to bare and half way through the book, it occurred to me that not a lot had actually happened at all.
A bit of action kicked in when Bonnie Prince Charlie appeared ...
but only a bit.
Lovely to come across Tullie House in a book, though!
One of the best books I have ever read. I absolutely loved this book and couldn't put it down. Highly recommended. This novel is the first of a series of six and I am looking forward to reading the remaining five! Loved it.
I first heard about Hugh Walpole more than fifty years ago and have just got around to reading some of his work. This novel is the first of a series of six and I am looking forward to reading the remaining five before too long.
Hugh Walpole's passion for the Lake District makes this a first rate novel
Hugh Walpole is one of the best novelists in the English language.I adore the Herries saga, however don't ignore his other works - some of the short stories are works of art.These books are wildly romantic in the broader sense - no twee little romances like Mills and Boone.These are about hard people with hard lives.
One never feels as if one is reading about simulacra; you can almost draw a living, breathing, person in their entirety from out the pages, as if the author were the world's greatest magician.My Mother had these on her bookshelves, and I think I must have been around eleven, when I first took down this book.
For much of the book I had to just get on with it, doing my best to get through the strange half story telling - by which I mean that some of the key events seem to have just happened, or be about to happen, when the narrative touches them.
There seem to be a few red herrings of potential stories, which are left to dwindle, for example for a moment I thought we might be in for a look at the Jacobite side of the '45 rebellion, but nothing came of it.
A rereading after many years.
Although Mr. Walpole always spends about a third of each paragraph describing sky, clouds, hills, state of weather, etc., I now find on re-reading that it is actually rather relaxing and helps set the atmosphere.
Rogue Herries was written with the intention of being the beginning of the Herries family saga.
If you read on through the series (Judith Paris, The Fortress and Vanessa), the various members of the Herries clan appear and reappear with usually tragic effect upon their kin.
Mr. Walpole's style of writing is an acquired taste, but you like this, you may become hooked.
Set in the Lake District, this is a little like Poldark, I feel: a family saga featuring a red-haired beauty.The language is flowing, in a 'stream-of conciousness' style - apparently largely unreviewed by the author. At 700+ pages, I think his editor should have been firmer!Some passages require reading two or three times to get the proper sense of them. Francis 'Rogue' Herries and his son David are believable and likeable characters.First published in 1930 as the first of four volumes. I won't be reading the other three.
Anyway, I point this out because I don't want you to think that I took three months to read this book because it was boring or bad.
A brick-thick 735 pages of, as the back of the book says, "fairs, balls, weddings, duels, witches, abductions, murder, and romance," all taking place in mid-eighteenth century Lake District.
She apparently really enjoyed them: "The Herries books to me are always a delight, beyond their style, bringing alive the places I love in the Lakes, peopling them with what could be the family of Rawlinsons (her family) instead of Herries."
Historical fiction: the story of the Herries family in England from 1730 to 1932. Rogue Herries, volume 1, I first heard on BBC 7 radio. It's the story of Francis Herries, a farmer, and his family who move out to the "frontier" in the North of England in the early 18th century. Quite the tale of gambling, fighting and generalized debauchery. Not sure what the other volumes, Judith Paris, The Fortress and Vanessa, are about except that it's a family saga.
3-4 stars. This series is very dated now, but was very popular in the 20th century. BLockbuster of its era, the hero is a little like Heathcliffe and the scenery is equally wild. There are four books in the saga of the Herries family called the Herries Chronicle. Walpole is not a great writer, but good fun and lovely setting of the beautiful Lake District which I adore.
I have never been a fan of Gothic novels with their melodramatic plots, extreme characters, and overwrought emotions. This is a fine example of what I do not like, but written by one of the masters of the genre, so it sustains interest.
Very well written! The descriptions of the countryside were so evocative and poetic-the reader is drawn in to the atmosphere of the time. I was a little impatient with the drawn out love affair but felt captured by the spirit!
First rate example of traditional narrative fiction, written with a Modernist (or classical, if you prefer) sense of leanness and poetry. Story of the life of Francis "Rogue" Herries and his children in mid-eighteenth century England (the Lake District).
I just love this saga...set in the lake district and beginning with the story of Francis Herries,the Herries saga is full of well developed characters,and is just a fabulous read.
This didn't appeal to me, and I suspect I never finished it.
Brilliant book, so descriptive and a really good read even though it is such a 'big' book it kept my attention all the way through.
