https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61915.Falling_Free

Being raised by two ENGINEERS, and the way my mind seems to like to structure itself, I love the writing in which we take in consideration all physical laws as we know them and build on them, or despite of them, instead of just coming up with impossibilities which defy logic on all levels, and justified by saying "Well, it is Fantasy, everything goes!".
There are about 4-5 POV's, but the main characters is Leo, the teaching engineer, who has been brought on board of this space habitat in order to teach the very unexpected young and naive students, the Quaddies, a genetically created new species of humans, designed to function best and mostly exclusively at 0 Gravity environments.
Update 10/3/17 Re-readI think I just relaxed into this read, knowing damn well that it was going to be a novel of revolution against corporate idiots and assholes.
So, I'm going back and reading all of the novels in chronological order to get a better and more mature grip on the series that I remember so fondly.Firstly, I like Graf.
Still fun, after all these years.On a positive note, I think she's better than Heinlein in world-building and tight-gripped control of technology and consequence.
Some of her characters are a lot better than his, too.
I think this is very high praise, by the way.
An Engineer dies and goes to hell. He's hot and miserable, so he decides to take action. The A/C has been busted for a long time, so he fixes it. Things cool down quickly.The moving walkway motor jammed, so he unjams it. People can get from place to place more easily.The TV was grainy and unclear, so he fixes the connection to the Satellite dish and now they get hundreds of high def channels.One day, God decides to look down on Hell to see how his grand design is working out and notices that ev
He asks the Devil what's going on?The Devil replies, "Things are great down here since you sent us that engineer.""What??
Recommended or chronological, this is the first book to read.This is a prequel which happens way before the main character of the series, Miles Vorkosigan was born.
Leo ended up being the only one who was in the right time and place to do it - and he decided he cannot let the matters be.
At this same time engineers actually build stuff: something necessary and useful for all.
This is a recommended book and series from one of the modern science fiction masters.
And all too soon this is exactly what endagers them all.Hence, this book is about basic human rights, gender equality (consider the age of the story, then you can stand next to me clapping at the author), technology vs.
I was actually shocked and confused about the supposed sexism I encountered in the first third of the book, but Bujold wonderfully turned those concepts upside down (making them fit perfectly with the setting), creating powerful reversals that became equally powerful statements.I know that we won't get to see the people from this story again as the rest of the series will play several hundred years in the future, which actually makes me sad.
so what if the situation presented is a bit maudlin, the villain obnoxiously rote and two-dimensional, too much mechanical-technical-engineering mumbo jumbo, the ending rather on the wish fulfillment side of things, some unnecessary infantilizing of the labor force in question, etc...
💀 DNF at 20% 💀Review to come. Maybe. Then again probably not.P.S. Maria, Dearest Wife, I 💕lurves💕 thee, but this series just isn't for me. (Oh wow, I just made a rhyme. A poet is me and stuff.)· Book 1: Shards of Honor ★★★
The characters were quite nicely done, and were an interestingly different combination of both the subtle and the obvious.In a way this book reminded me of those pre-CGI SF films and TV shows that put more of a premium on entertainment through the telling of the story rather than being essentially a vehicle to showcase special effects.
He has kind of a storyteller's cadence to his speech that actually went well with the way the book is written.
It felt like he was telling me a story rather than reading one, if that makes any sense.In any event, I'm absolutely continuing with this series, and have already started listening to Shards of Honor.
Prvo imamo Dreamweaver's Dilemma interesantnu pričicu o opsnostima nove tehnologije prikazane kroz blago detektivsku priču. Simpatično ili u suštini ništa posebno.Druga priča, Falling Free, je daleko interesantnija pošto se bavi grupom modifikovanih ljudi, dece zapravo, i njihovom borbom za svoju budućnost. Ima dobrih momenata, likovi su interesantni jedino što nikako nisma imao osećaj veličine date stanice kao ni da ima puno osoba na njoj (a trbalo bi da bude preko 1000). Lako se čita i drži pažnju tako može da prođe.P.S. Malo sam bio stroži sa ocenom nego što treba pa samo prepravljam na 4 zvezde :)
Still, it is inevitable it will be considered a lesser work along with Ethan of Athos, but it's a high hurdle to compete with Miles.Still, certainly a decent read and worth your time if you like this kind of story and want to complete your knowledge of the backstory of the Miles Vorkosigan universe.
A pleasantly diverting tale that started out with a bit more teeth, a beginning that unveiled a rich ethical and moral dilemma unfolding, leading me to believe it would have more substance than it wound up having.
According to the folks who’ve read more of her Vorkosigan Saga books, this one is a bit of an outlier in many ways.
I’m definitely still willing to give them a go, but I’m not as eager to as I am to continue with the sequels to The Curse of Chalion, which I enjoyed quite a bit more than this book.
This is first in chronological order of the Vorkosigan Saga save for the short story Dreamweaver's Dilemma.
I now have all the audio books lined up.
I've never tried them in audio format, but thought them well suited.
I was right.This deals with the origins of the Quaddies, a race that was first introduced in one of the early books about Miles.
It was a little too much, but fun.The reader was very good & the audio volume was excellent.
My local library has almost the entire series available as audio books, so I plan on listening to the rest soon.

The hero is a level-headed engineer (which reminded me of Clarke's Fountains of Paradise, which I read a few months ago) called Graf.
Silver is the only characters with a bit of complexity/ambiguity, but everything she does is driven by someone else (sleeping with Van Atta because he wants it, helping Claire and Tony escape because they want to, leading the rebellion because Graf suggests it, etc).The adventure skips along at a good pace, and I was never tempted to put it down, but once the character 'types' had been set-up, I spent the rest of the book waiting for someone (anyone!) to break from their type...
They lack the most basic human rights, as these do not extend to transhuman rights.As you can imagine the central theme of this book is about the right to live a good life, free from tyranny.
This is not a densely plotted novel, but it does move along at a fair clip.The Vorkosigan series is often classified as “military science fiction” but Falling Free does not have any military in it, just a few ineffective security guards.
There’s also the slightly troubling shape of the thing, the way the revolution is powered by a human with his big human ideas, and the Quaddies are just a bunch of kids following along.Still, it is Bujold, and there are flashes of what will later be her more concentrated moments of clarity and brilliance:“I’m no worse than anyone else.”“But I’m giving you the chance to be better, don’t you see .
. .”The moral compass of the book points a bit too uncomplicatedly for my taste, but the heart of the thing is true.
In both books a huge intergalactic company is using and abusing a population of people who are considered somehow “less than” humans.
Here in Falling Free it is the quaddies, the result of human genome manipulation, who have four arms instead of two arms & two legs, supposedly to be make them more suited to zero gravity.There are strong hints of the Frankenstein story, with people often being physically ill when first meeting a quaddie.
So-called normal people react very negatively towards quaddies, just as people reacted with fear & hostility to Frankenstein’s creature.I also couldn’t help but think of Octavia Butler’s work, dealing as it does with issues of slavery and power differentials.
This is my first exposure to Falling Free and despite some minor issues, I think it's held up pretty well.Leo Graf is a testing engineer whose latest posting at the Cay Habitat leads to some surprises.
Where a lot of the tension comes in is whether Graf and the quaddies can escape without paying a terrible cost in lives and people left behind.Solid, but there are far better and more nuanced commentary on slave peoples available in modern speculative fiction, notably The Fifth Season and the rest of that trilogy.
"If you ever have to make a choice between learning and inspiration, boy, choose learning.
It works more of the time."If you're interested in science fiction, you will eventually hear of Bujold and her Vorkosigan Saga.
Stereotypes abound too, with the big 'baddie', who became more farcical as the story progressed, employed by a soulless corporation, interested only in financial gain.
Bujold thankfully gives us a development that shatters all of it, with a pretty cool revolution, with action-filled scenes.It is not perfect, by any means, but I enjoyed it, especially the revolt, and look forward to the next instalment.
Our intrepid engineer Leo starts a new job and gets to know genetically engineered humans--optimized for life in free fall, with another set of arms instead of legs.
Leo is the nice guy, Mr. Fix-it, and apparently based on Bujold's father, who was an engineer and wrote a definitive book on non-destructive testing.The bad guy is a proper slimebag, the quaddies are all nice, naive kids.
Every now and then she geeks out and over-indulges in engineering babble.The ending feels a bit as if there could have been more, and I read somewhere that Bujold had indeed planned to write another book to tell the rest of the story.Chronologically Falling Free is the first book in the Vorkosigan Saga.
Residing in the space habitat are a thousand young and very young quaddies, genetically engineered with no legs but four arms and hands to be especially well adapted for working in a gravitation-free environment.
If Leo Graf were not so perfect, and the director had not been portrayed as 100% evil, then the story could have been more interesting.I did not read this book; I listened to the audiobook, narrated like all the other Bujold books by Grover Gardner .
Around the halfway mark, I was dreading picking it up, as I wasn't sure how much more I could take of quaddie mistreatment.
I started to give myself permission to just read a chapter at a time, instead of pushing for 100 pages.
Luckily, shortly after that, the quaddies started fighting back, and I got right back into the swing of it.
I just don't deal well with lack of agency.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
I mean, taken the fact how much I was impressed by this novel, sure I would love to but with so many books on my reading list, who knows?
Saying that I really liked this novel is kind of an understatement but the reason why I’m giving it four and not five stars is that I like to keep five stars for those novels that really changed my life.
I really do feel like singing praises to this novel because I really think that it is great, its characters are incredibly well developed and the plot is bullet proof.
It is not one of those novels that changed my life, but it felt like a great piece of writing nevertheless.
Executive Summary: Much like Ethan of Athos this one had a very strange premise. I thought it was alright, but I'm hoping the series focuses on Miles again soon.Audiobook: Grover Gardner does another good job. When you're not sure about a book, having a good narrator can be a big help. Full Review I had issues with this book. It wasn't the idea of Quaddies themselves, but the idea of genetically engineering what are essentially slaves. Leo was a pretty good character, but the book felt like a so
Leo was a pretty good character, but the book felt like a sort of White Savior story at times.
He seemed more about helping them help themselves than being their savior.The quaddies themselves weren't so much there to be saved as they were people born into a bad situation that wasn't of their own making.
I'll continue the series as it looks like the next one finally returns to Miles.
The one book I've read where he's been the focus is the one I've enjoyed the most of the series so far.
Reading the Vorkosigan Saga in internal publication order except for Falling Free which I am reading between Cordelia's Honor & Young Miles.
I really appreciate Bujold's characters.
Going into this I was wondering whether I would enjoy it after all the Cordelia and Aral we had in Shards & Barrayar.
But, nope, my fears were unfounded as Bujold just pulled another one out of her hat!
Quite enjoyed this and I found it a surprisingly fast read!Before this I read: Shards of Honor & BarrayarAfter this I read: Young MilesRead: 3-4 Feb 2018
It takes place before the events we read about in the other books and tells the story of the Quaddies, those genetically engineered “mutants” who have four arms and no legs and who, therefore, make good workers for zero-gravity situations.
They were created in secret by a corporation who is using them as free labor.The story starts when Leo Graf, an engineer, is hired to train students on a distant planet.
Leo doesn’t know, and isn’t told, that his new students are Quaddies, so he’s quite surprised and repulsed when he first meets them.
3.5 starsStarts out a bit slow and sophomoric, but by about half-way through becomes a bit more complex and satisfying. The writing style is very straightforward and almost simplistic, and the plot is completely linear.Still, the characters are mostly charming, the villain not quite a cardboard cliché, and the hero an Engineer, of course.Bujold is clearly not showing off in this book, and I hope "Shards of Honour" has a bit more depth and breadth.
Well done mix of science and conflict with a few important moral questions added to the mix. Is Bujold an engineer??
Four thumbs up!
Taking place almost entirely on a spacestation and with a very peculiar crew, it's both traditional and, with her own twists, somewhat innovative, making this a wonderful introduction to this long and very popular series.This prequel to the Vorkosigan saga takes place a couple of hundred years prior to Miles' birth, and introduces us to a very interesting people called "quaddies", and a loveable and loving man named Leo Graf.
Wonderful beginning to this much-lauded series - I very much enjoyed my introduction to the Vorkosigan saga.
Bujold attacks the kinds of thinking in individuals and corporations/beaurocracies that can cause the justification of the elimination of 'inefficiencies' even in the case of sentient beings.Leo Graf finds himself fighting for the rights of the Quaddies and I felt swept into his decision for its rightness, much like I have when following Miles' stories."The solution had been lying around him in pieces all this time, invisible until he'd changed.
There was no limit to what one man might do, if he gave all, and held back nothing."Bujold never does it as simply as I will describe it, but overall she writes about brave individuals who will risk much in order to save and defend those weaker than they against tyranny and just plain idiocy.
If you like your scifi chock full of clever engineers, then you'd be hard pressed to come up with a better story. Clever people solving problems cleverly: that's the stuff I love, anyway. So, not at all like Scalzi's Fuzzy Nation or Ocean's Eleven, but satisfying in that same way. Now all I have to do is figure out which of Bujold's many books I should read next. Feel free to recommend your favorites.Library copy
