https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11143472-the-cats-of-ulthar
This early Dunsanian tale, first published in the amateur literary journal Tryout (1920), resembles the work of Dunsany more deeply than mere style: although distant and ironic, it somehow manages to convey the spirit of naïve folklore.
Like many of our ancient myths, it answers a question: why is it forbidden to kill a cat in Ulthar?It is a slight tale, but nearly perfect.
Lovecraft, who liked cats a lot, chose it one of his personal favorites.
I am a cat person too, and find the story's attitude toward cats—mysterious, dangerous creatures, worthy of respect and devotion—to be a sensible one.
Like Lovecraft, I must admit this is one of my personal favorites too.
Excellent short story, reads like a fairy tale. Lovecraft captured at once the innocence and primal terror of a folk tale. First published in 1920, this is one of his finest works from his earlier period and one of his better stories overall.In the town of Ulthar, it is illegal to kill cats. Lovecraft relates the anecdote of why this law came to be and in doing so he demonstrates his exceptional ability to convey a sense of dark, ancient magic upon an innocent world.
You can read it here at GR by clicking on that "preview button" or online  here .It is said that in Ulthar, which lies beyond the river Skai, no man may kill a cat; and this I can verily believe as I gaze upon him who sitteth purring before the fire.
For the cat is cryptic, and close to strange things which man cannot see.Once upon a time in Ulthar, before said law was put into action, there lived a sinister old couple who delighting in slaying any unlikely cat that straggled upon their property.
Super Extra Short Not-So-Horrific Horror Short Story™ about, um, you know, kitty cats and stuff, that can be read for free over here and stuff.RTC. Maybe.
An odd little H.P. Lovecraft tale, only ten paragraphs long, told in a portentous voice:It is said that in Ulthar, which lies beyond the river Skai, no man may kill a cat; and this I can verily believe as I gaze upon him who sitteth purring before the fire.
Things come to a head in a gruesome, otherworldly kind of way, as so often happens with Lovecraft.
A re-read (of course!)The inhabitants of the village of Ulthar have long tolerated the creepy old couple that they suspect has been kidnapping and killing their pets. After all, they don't have any hard proof, and perhaps it's easier just to mourn Fluffy. However, a boy from a travelling nomad caravan has no such compunctions. When his beloved kitten falls victim to the unsavory couple, he will appeal to his strange gods for justice - and finally, things will change in Ulthar.
This is the fourth of the Dreamlands story cycle, and apparently the author's personal favorite. Certainly it is clear that he likes cats more than humans. I enjoyed and sympathized with his obvious gloating over the idea of horrible deaths befalling people who hurt animals.Not as creepy as the horrifying Millions of Cats.Sarnath <--previous | next --> Celephaïs
A creepy, little fairy tale with a moral at the end: don't mess with the cats. I loved it. This could be a bit spoilery, but who cares. You know something creepy happens anyway. It's Lovecraft! (view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
An interesting fairy tale as to why cats cannot be killed in Ulthar. OVERALL GRADE: B minus.
Ha! in your face old creepy couple who hate cats!!!That end, oh my God that end! I really wish, from the bottom of my heart that this will happen to all animal abusers! AMEN!
الرواية عادية وتشبه روايات جريم Grimmلكاتبها Hans Christian Andersenلا أرى داعي لكم الأسماء المقحمة على صغر النوفيلا، غير انها متوقعة وغير مثيرة بالمرة.قرأت قطط ألثار بعد قرائتي لقط من الجحيم لستيفن كينج. وعلى الرغم من بشاعتها إلى انها ترقى عن ألثار
I think I was afraid to read it.
The Sphinx is his cousin, and he speaks her language; but he is more ancient than the Sphinx, and remembers that which she hath forgotten."As I read on I began to fear it was not suitable for me at bedtime and that I would not be able to continue without being set up for bad dreams.
And I had no need to fear for the cats in this story after all.
I will look for more reads by this author.
I saw a book with a collection of his at the flea market last weekend.
A remarkably good early (1920) story, slightly marred only by his insistence at the end on spelling out what we know already, Lovecraft weaves dark fantasy, a suggestion of Egyptian mythology and true horror into a tale of magical invocation and the revenge of cats on vicious humans.Lovecraft holds our attention throughout. Dunsany is frequently cited as an influence but Poe is in there as well. Certainly this is a story for those who love and respect cats but who have considerable doubts about their fellow humans.
It is said that in Ulthar, which lies beyond the river Skai, no man may kill a cat. Old grumpy couple who live in the city of Ulthar enjoy capturing and killing the cats of their neighbors, but when a caravan of wanderers passes through the city and the precious black kitten of Menes goes missing.... what will he do?
Gatos, esfinges y Lovecraft que más se puede pedir.
Review also at Blame Chocolate.This short story was one of Lovecraft’s favorites, due to his love for cats, and even though I’m a cat lover myself, I feel like it didn’t quite hit the mark.
I enjoyed it, for sure, but felt it was too brief for me to feel any sort of attachment or fondness for the characters or the story itself.Nevertheless, Lovecraft is certainly a talented writer and his ideas are exceedingly progressive.
However, I could sort of guess the ending from the very beginning and so it didn’t feel very suspenseful to me.Thus, only three candy corns.
in Ulthar no man may kill a catقصة لطيفة وإن كانت عادية للغاية. أجمل جملة هي التي تصف خروج القطط من القرية وهي الصورة الأكثر رعباً بها.
Si bien Lovecraft me encanta, eso no impide que no me guste algún que otro cuento de el, este es el triste caso de una historia que parecía que me fascinaría y encantaría, pero me termino decepcionando enormemente, creo que esta decepción es digna de hacerle reseña en mi canal, esperen lo próximamente, par saber mi opinión mas extensapd: lo había leído hace tiempo, y quiera darle esta segunda oportunidad, pero mi opinión sigue siendo la misma
С почином меня!Я совсем не собиралась с ним знакомиться, однако когда встал выбор Лавкрафт/Васильев, решение было однозначным, ибо второго я в свое время зачитала до дыр и пока не готова к нему возвращаться.
А вообще мне кажется, что Говард любил котиков не меньше меня, просто моя симпатия к ним одномерна.Самое интересное – Лавкрафт не говорит прямо, что случилось и кто виноват.
Будь у меня привычка сидеть у костра и рассказывать страшные истории юным, неиспорченным бойскаутам, Ультарские кошки пришли бы мне на ум в первую очередь.А еще, судя по всему, Лавкрафт удивительно хорош в своих коротких рассказах, и я с удовольствием уткнулась бы в его сборничек на аглицком следующим жарким и удушающе влажным летом.annikeh.net
What a weird short story. I don't normally bother with short story's but been a cat lover I read this one, I found it to be straight to the point about cat haters and how I wished the villagers had sorted them out. Did the black kitten really get killed? But in the end the cat haters got there justice. It was strange how a story of only six pages managed to drag me in and make me feel like I was the village story telling at its best
This almost reads like a Grimm's fairytale, and was my first exposure to Lovecraft's affinity for cats :-) Part of the dream cycle, which revolves around the mighty The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath. Short but memorable.
This short story is the perfect mix of fantasy, folklore and horror. And cats. Creepy cats.(view spoiler)[I know this is a story on how you shouldn't mess with cats, but I'm more like 'Here, you see! Cats eating human flesh! I KNEW THEY WERE EVIL!!!' (hide spoiler)]Sincerely, More of a Dog Person
pues es el primer cuento que leo de H.P. Lovecraft y veo por que las leyendas que se cuentan de el perfecto este cuento!
Here's another of Lovecraft's Dream Cycle/Fantasy tales I enjoy, probably because I'm a cat person, and because anybody that @&$%'s with felines deserves to be devoured alive.
Bastante bien ambientado, impresiona como el escritor con un par de párrafos te hace sentir que leíste una novela entera. Buenísima historia, muy oscura.
and you would have been spared all those accusations of racism.That Lovecraft loved cats is undeniable, and even if you didn't know it to begin, you would by the time you finished this.
The language here is so beautiful, the telling so picturesque, the cats so innocent (yet dangerous), and the little boy so sympathetic you wish H.P.L. would have done more of this.In effect it's a bit like Dunsany, only unlike Dunsany, this story actually stays with you once you're done.
Lovecraft wrote many fantastic things with many bizarre and far-out ideas, and at times his prejudices showed; but by golly anybody who can write this sort of tale wherein his love of the title characters shines forth can't be entirely bad.
I read an electronic text of it online.What did I think of it?I thought this was quite a good little short story.
I didn’t think it would end quite like it did, a little dark and gory, but it was really well written.
P. Lovecraft, or anyone that likes a dark little short story.Overall opinionI thought this was well done.
It was a neat little short story, it didn’t scream at me and I probably won’t read it again, but it was well written, and well deserved to become a classic, in my opinion.
Zagrebačka nakladaZagreb, 2008.Prijevod: Sanja PetriškaUnutar tvrdih korica "Horor priče za laku noć".Kratka priča. Paradigmatski primjer kratke priče.Jezik je atmosferičan i kvalitetan. Lovecraft nije King, Lovecraft zna pisati.Stilogenost jezika baca furku mita, radnja se zbiva u dalekoj prošlosti. Arhajskost Lovecraftova pozicioniranja radnje uvijek posjeduje draž estetičnosti te je samo po sebi efekt očuđenja. Što je jebeno.Trojka je dana jer je uistinu prekratko, a opet nije dalo nekakvu posebnu čitateljsku katarzu.Pročitajte!Hasta luego!
You're not allowed to kill a cat in Ulthar. Why? Don't ask me, read the story
A fairy tale that shows why cats should always be respected and the high cost one pays when they don't.
