https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1764814.Fungi_from_Yuggoth_and_Other_Poems
Pero esto no es relevante, porque lo más importante son los relatos y poemas que nos dejó.La lectura de 'Hongos de Yuggoth' sabe a poco.
Uno está acostumbrado a sumergirse de lleno en las atmósferas creadas por Lovecraft, y sus poemas no logran trasladarte enteramente a esos ambientes.
Pero esto no es óbice para dejar de disfrutar con algunas de las escenas que nos pinta, como si de postales se tratase, y vislumbrar los mundos de pesadilla creados por HP.El libro está dividido en dos partes.
La primera, 'Hongos de Yuggoth', se compone de 36 poemas, algunos de ellos con una trama en común, siendo todos muy cortos.
Even in the Dunsany-homages of his Dreamlands stories, beast-gods lurk and dark fates await.
ExpectancyI cannot tell why some things hold for meA sense of unplumbed marvels to befall,Or of a rift in the horizon's wallOpening to worlds where only gods can be.There is a breathless, vague expectancy,As of vast ancient pomps I half recall,Or wild adventures, uncorporeal,Ecstasy-fraught, and as a day-dream free.It is in sunsets and strange city spires,Old villages and woods and misty downs,South winds, the sea, low hills, and lighted towns,Old gardens, half-heard songs, and the moon's fires.But though its lure alone makes life worth living,None gains or guesses what it hints at giving.
Poco se habla de la poesía de Lovecraft, sin embargo, si solo se han leído sus cuentos, debo decir que tal vez, si, tal vez, ¡aún no han leído nada!¡Éstas letras hielan el alma!
Su poesía tiene una cualidad tal cual si se tratara de uno de los capiteles que abundan en su obra, rematando construcciones de una arquitectura no imaginada por ningún ente humano.
Aquí Lovecraft nos revela sus más íntimos anhelos, y para horror nuestro, ¡éstos son tan terribles que son capaces de petrificar nuestras almas!
Su poesía es la cereza en el pastel que corona su obra.
No es que sea un libro de 2 estrellas, es que los poemas simplemente no se me dan muy bien; de todos modos están , en mi pobre opinión, muy rebuscados y con palabras muy rimbombantes y ya anacrónicas en la época que salieron publicados.
3,5It is the land where beauty's meaning flowers;where every unplaced memory has a source;where the 
Lovecraft no es necesariamente uno de mis autores favoritos, pero disfruté de esta breve compilación. Y la hubiera disfrutado más de no haber sido porque los versos venían acompañados de su versión original en inglés y no pude evitar ver numerosas instancias en las que se podía haber mejorado la traducción.
I accidentally chanced upon Lovecraft while browsing shelves at my local city library during my high school days.
Eventually I got to his poems, of which the epic lay "Fungi from Yuggoth" is one of his most famous efforts.
Now years distant from high school, I recently took up again my favorite copy of this short lay.
I have read many words and seen terrible things both scary and ghastly.
I have read recently that Yuggoth has companions five, or perhaps there are six compeer yuggothoids loosely sharing their wildly elliptical orbits around the small dim star at the center of their system.
This little volume (edited by August Derleth) brings together a sampling of H.P. Lovecraft's better poetry.
This is especially true of the earlier works, where Lovecraft indulges his most Edwardian inclinations.
Especially worthwhile is "The Fungi From Yuggoth," which features thirty-six different sonnets.
Some are little scary stories in their own right, while others aim more for the sense of the numinous that often accompanies the horrible in HPL's fiction.
While Lovecraft is arguably not the best weird poet of his era--that title would probably go to Clark Ashton Smith--I would argue he's worth reading for anyone in seeing this curious overlap betwixt the poetic and the uncanny.
I'm not a big fan of rhyming poetry the sonnets have a nice flow to them though. Being a fan of prose makes it hard to enjoy rhyming poetry.....I'm sure some people will agree with me. Of 36 poems I only found four that I actually could put a like on.My favorites:* The Howler* A Memory * Night-Gaunts* St. Toad's
Lovecraft's poetic ravings achieve such levels of cosmic badness that they're almost good. I was entertained for mostly the wrong reasons.
Eldritch rugose noisome squamousIchor cyclopean lugubriousN’dai, n’gha ‘gha ‘ghaa, bugg-shoggog, y’hahGibbous eidolon Tsathoggua!Leng?-m
La poesía no es un genero de mi agrado, pero la compilación de estos 36 sonetos vienen en la edición completa del autor.
Para mis sorpresa me volví loca, estos mini relatos presentados en forma onírica logran trasmitir las sensaciones e imágenes descriptas sin perder lo perturbador o maravilloso que presentan los cuentos de Lovecraft.
El lenguaje de las prosas en algunos casos es rebuscado para lograr la interpretación pero se resuelve con una segunda lectura; además está edición viene acompañada de notas.
Un dato a tener en cuenta es que los sonetos vienen en ingles y español, recomiendo lo primero para disfrutar la excelencia de estas joyas literarias.

3CRÍTICA: http://www.planocritico.com/critica-j...
Horribles, demenciales, oniricos mundos en donde criaturas impensables reptan. Donde Dioses inimaginables rigen.¿Que mejor forma de describir lo indescriptible que con poesía?
Excelente recopilación de poemas de horror muy recomendable
Edición bilingüe de Valdemar. Imposible evitar leerlo sin imaginar cómo sonoría como un disco conceptual de metal progresivo :)
I enjoyed Lovecraft's clever and creepy turns of phrase in this bilingual and illustrated volume that I was fortunate enough to find at the public library.
Traducido no vale nada :(
4'5  Howard Phillips Lovecraft además de escribir relatos también le interesaba enormemente la poesía y en esta antología encontramos tanto la versión original como la española.Nuestro Lovecraft cuando se pone poeta no cambia de estilo ni mucho menos, pues podemos apreciar su exceso de adjetivación y la aparición de Dioses y otras criaturas que inmortalizo hace ya casi cien años. Tampoco en su poesía abandona los temas que durante toda su vida abordará, pues se trata de un trabajo que al igual
Además decir eso es saber bien poco del autor, porque yo que todavía no sé ni una ínfima parte de lo que saben verdaderos adeptos a la corriente lovecraftiana, entiendo lo mucho que HPL trasmite en sus cartas, no solo información o ideas para sus futuros relatos, también sus opiniones en diversos temas y su forma de vida –que tal vez a muchos no os interese, pero a mí sí–, y por supuesto jamás se me ocurriría despreciar su labor epistolar como con tanta facilidad lo hacen otros.
I actually read this small collection of poems as an e-book available from Amazon (not this print version).
However, I didn't see the ebook listed, so I chose this -- since this is the closest thing to the version I read.With that out of the way...onto the review.I came away from this book convinced that HPL may have been a better poet than a prose writer.
I'm very glad I read this.
Wish I'd read it sooner.
H.P. Lovecraft might not have been technically the greatest of poets — this sequence of 36 sonnets includes such clumsiness as rhyming 'evil' with 'devil' — but his poetry hums with a sense of cosmic wonder, a simultaneous fear and marvel in the alien, the unknowable.
The line between fear and wonder in these poems is membranously thin.
Lovecraft dreams of celestial cities whose streets, he notes with evident approval, "human tread has never soiled", then a dead face that "called me by my name".
A sense of identification with the alien is palpable in these poems, which is interesting considering Lovecraft was a xenophobe in life.
I must admit that many of the sonnets had wonderful moments language-wise, but overall I was disappointed in spite of my low expectations.
And they are quite formulaic; description of something mystical/dark in a poetic language in the beginning and using the final ones to speak of "THE HORROR" without revealing it.
It is a pity, since the poetic potential is evident, even though at times the flow could have been significantly better, that wonderful phrasings are wasted in an attempt to make the sonnet something which it is not, namely a good device for narrative.
And it is especially bothersome that almost none of the scraps of narrative provided is actually good.
Re-reading some of my favorite horror stories, consuming the stories as if they were some strange wines that I have kept in the basement, hidden amongst vintages less divine; with such labels blackened unreadable and corks re-affixed with age-blooded wax.
I just discovered and drank them with great relish.
I hardly noticed the copper filling my nose as I drank it down.
It was only, much later, that I discovered my two cats had torn themselves to shreds.
my copy of Lovecraft horrors looked half-melted and was crawling up my arm like a caterpillar.
Gotta love the craft that is HP Lovecraft!
HP Lovecraft has a masterful way of of crawling under your skin and inciting your buried fears and hidden madness.
Most critics don't touch on how his writing can sometimes make one feel lost and confused in a foreign alien dark abyss to the point of madness.
This is where the fear is incited in me from his writing.
on the other hand however if you're looking for poetic ravings of horror and madness, traveling through the abyss of the Lovecraft's darkness, then you'll love it!
This is a very atmospheric experience, reading this in one sitting.
There's some really good imagery and turns of phrase here, they certainly transport one into another world.
Some of these sonnets express the horrific and otherworldly, many others delve into the nostalgic.Several of these sonnets brought to mind ideas from the stories like "The Well" has a similar theme to "The Colour Out of Space," "The Familiars" is obviously referencing "The Dunwich Horror" and "The Window" certainly brought to mind "The Music of Erich Zann." There are other examples as well.
This is a cycle of 32 sonnets, originally published piecemeal. It lacks a central narrative, and has no enduring theme beyond a suggestive melancholy. If you already enjoy other Lovecraftian materials, it is interesting in that it was the first time he mentioned many things which were expanded in his later works. Interesting as an exercise, and worth a listen, but not as enduring as some of his other verses. Available from Internet Archive.This review first appeared on book coasters
Like a lot of authors Lovecraft first considered himself a poet, then revised that into an author. Much like his hero Poe, Lovecraft wrote poetry throughout his life even though he had no hope of it being published. After his death, his poetry was gathered and published by Delerth through Arkamhouse, as far as I know (and I haven’t looked) this is the only paperback of his poetry. Available through Balintine in their old ”adult fantasy” line that Lin Carter edited for so long. An entertaining look into a hidden aspect of a favorite author.
A 36-poem sonnet cycle about flying fungi from outer space--just what you'd expect from Lovecraft. The cycle contains moments of genuine inspiration, but lacks discipline. Lovecraft makes for a somewhat clumsy sonneteer: the cycle seems unsure of itself (should it be "cohesive" or not?) and his formal mixtures of the Petrarchan and Shakespearean structures are more odd than effective. Nevertheless, this is worth reading as another curious specimen of Lovecraftiana.
The only thing horrible about this book is the verse itself. Some sort of Swinburne pastiche. Lovecraft's range is from bad to appalling. The early poems are particularly awful. It is a good thing that Lovecraft stuck mostly to fiction. Only for the Lovecraft, or Ballantine Adult Fantasy completist. Caveat Lector!
