https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17607.All_About_Love
The best and worst thing about this book was hooks' commitment throughout the work to making powerful, decisive statements that wanted to leave little room open for argument.
When she was on, this authoritative voice felt like a revelation -- such as when she declares that abuse and love cannot coexist.
& her thoughts on work, her feeling that work can be bearable if done with love, feels downright degrading, especially alongside the way she talks about things like having TWO HOMES, one in the city, one outside of the city -- a pretty extreme display of class privilege.
To give two brief criticisms, because it wasn't actually perfect, and that's important: it's pretty god-heavy.
emotional space, autonomy-a loving ethic could look like this: working for individuals you admire and respect; giving all to our relationships; seeing our lives and fates as tied to everyone else's on the planet-live with love.
love is an ethic, a state of readiness and openness and willingness to struggle.
commitment and behavior change to reflect specific situations, but love is the same all around.
you can promise a readiness to work, to build love further every day.
I could write almost every page of this book a five-star review. bell hooks, African-American feminist author of the revelationary  The Will to Change , creates another visionary work with All About Love. She argues for the importance of love in our private and public lives in powerful and innovative ways. At first the title of this book made me roll my eyes a little, in a "oh yay, a book that's all about love, how cliche" kinda way. But from the very first page, hooks offers piercing insights i
A powerful quote about friendship:"Most of us are raised to believe we will either find love in our first family (our family of origin) or, if not there, in the second family we are expected to form through committed romantic couplings, particularly those that lead to marriage and/or lifelong bondings.
This devaluation of our friendships creates an emptiness we may not see when we are devoting all our attention to finding someone to love romantically or giving all our attention to a chosen loved one."Overall, an inspiring book I wish more people would read.
i would love to try an experiment where this book is re-released under some nobody's name, rather than bell hooks, & we can see how people respond to it when they aren't actually responding to the whole bell hooks association.
i have LOVED a lot of hooks's books.
there has been a serious upswing in the importance of love & jesus in hooks's books in the last several years, & a serious downswing in interesting political thought.
it works for some people, but it's not my thing.
it's so important to work on being loving!

When I checked it out of the library along with a huge stack of other books, the librarian pulled it out and said, "Oh, this book is SO good." Which made me even more excited to read it.If she had stopped after the first two chapters, I probably would have recommended it as a worthwhile essay to read.
For example, when she described President Clinton as engaging in "deceitful behavior" because of a "fundamental flaw in his self-esteem", and then stopped there, completely neglecting to discuss the reasons why the Clintons stayed together despite his very public affair.
bell hooks is one of the greatest theorists and cultural critics of our time.
Her writings on racism and sexism are sharp, incitful and practical, as in they include practical solutions for healing the violence that these systems of oppression create.
And she writes books that could be classified as self-help.
hooks makes the excellent point that the search for love is often so difficult because we have neither common language, nor training or examples in how to be truly loving.
I learn something new from this book every time I read it, and I grow by leaps and bounds everytime I practice what is in it.
Does it need to be written by a self-avowed feminist or inspiring woman?This book does a lot of those things, but most importantly, it is daring in its exposure of an issue that causes deep cultural anxiety, perhaps because it is disproportionately attributed to women.
For example, I am not a spiritual person, so praying is not something that I find useful, but she states more universally on page 215, "Prayer provides a space where talking cures." For me, this type of healing can be done through journaling or daydreaming.This book is feminist because hooks unapologetically inhabits a subjective space.
I found myself having to scan page after page in a half-read because I couldn't bare the self-help dialogue that she was engaging in.
Furthermore, I found myself absolutely cringing over the books she referenced, not to mention how many times she quoted The Road Less Traveled.Yes. I felt like some kind of academic snob while reading it, each time I would roll my eyes and skip ahead.Yes. I feel like an even bigger asshole writing this all here for public viewing.Having said that, I did take something big from this book, and that was hooks' idea that we need to have a working definition of love, before love can come about in its it truest form.
I think in saying this, she articulated something that we all know intellectually, but in a way that really translates.For this, it was worth the read.
Growing up in a dysfunctional family and as a recovering codependent, I related very well to nearly 70% of the text's offerings and many of the author's own experiences, and I believe that I grew and developed as a person while completing this read.
3) Lastly, though this text was introduced by the author with full transparency regarding its expression in an ideal world, there were definitely a few moments when I believed her suggestions for returning to and/or embracing love were not realistic enough to be put into practice at all times.
I was initially skeptical of her thesis that society needs to adapt a universal definition of love, but as I continued reading, the idea struck a chord of recognition within me that I certainly hope will continue to resonate for the rest of my days on this spinning orb.
Love, by definition, may never include abuse...if abuse exists in the relationship...it ain't love.
If it does not contain ALL of those components, then it ain't love.
hooks astutely points out that while abusive or neglectful relationships can, at times, involve care, they can never be truly loving in the larger sense.
So often we're exposed to the idea that abuse or neglect can coexist with love, and I like hooks's distinction between care - a precious aspect of human relationships in its own right, and one she clearly values - and the larger, mutually nourishing set of actions and feelings that make up genuine love.
I do believe, despite the general truth that "honesty is the best policy," that there are times when lying is the most appropriate and generous - yes, loving - course of action.
This is precisely the beauty of it, the fact that our perception of love - because I honestly think it is a matter of perception - changes ever so slightly with new relationships - romantic or otherwise, and that we gain new insights each time, without ever grasping the full meaning of it.In the end, despite the popular appeal of this book, the position adopted by the author often seemed to me rather limiting, constraining, and not something I personally agreed with.
Let's be honest, without Emma Watson and her 'Our Shared Shelf' book club I never would have read this book. It's just not what I like or enjoy reading. I had to force myself to keep reading, and tbh I don't even know /what/ I was reading. I feel bad for giving only 1 star though since I'm sure there are people who like books like this one, but I just couldn't enjoy it :(
One to read over and over again, to truly dive into the meanings and to truly understand it because it is one hard to understand, definitely will go back to it in the future.
Molti “hints” che invocano, e, per chi sa stare al gioco autodistruttivo, certo, ma generativo, è certissimo, obbligano a riflessioni su di un “tema” - l’amore - tanto onnicomprensivo quanto, bell hooks ci insegna, misconosciuto. La tesi di fondo è che viviamo, o meglio: abbiamo costruito e partecipiamo in una “loveless society”. Da qui l’urgenza improrogabile di ridiscutere l’amore. Ne siamo capaci? o preferiamo reiterare i nostri fantasmi confortanti? “Che fatica madonna, ma non posso farne a meno, perché voglio esistere” (cit.)
‘All About Love’ is a warm but challenging take on the politics of love and how people are socialized to see it and allow it to guide their lives, for better or worse. bell hooks is striking and wonderful, as always.
I don't think she necessarily expects people to hold hands and sing Kumbayah all day long - she understands that with love comes work, hard work, it doesn't come easily.And that's the true basis of this book.
There's this idea that any true love is a magical thing that comes along, and then our lives are perfect and no work is required.
But she also said some good things about what it means to be in a loving relationship, and I think all of that is work reading.
One of few aspects that I didn't like about the book was that it had a strong anti-atheistic vibe to it.
She of course, continues to emphasis God as essential to love, and to create or contribute to a loving environment, which is of course, her own perception and opinion, but it adds so much antagonization and alienation that I'd imagine an atheist would not continue reading this book, which is about love, only to be told that she/he cannot contribute or love as much as an atheist.
Terceiro livro do clube do livro da Emma WatsonO horror. Sei que deveria dar duas estrelinhas pelo fato da hooks ser feminista, mas é humanamente impossível. Ninguém que seja estudioso do ser humano pode levar um livro de autoajuda desses a sério, é terrível e há muitos anos não sentia vergonha de estar lendo um livro e (pasme!) conseguir terminá-lo! Mas veja pelo lado bom, finalmente fiquei incitada a pegar para ler o A Arte de Amar do Erich Fromm.
It is always present, waiting for the spark to ignite, waiting for the heart to awaken and call us back to the first memory of being the life force inside a dark place waiting to be born--waiting to see the light,' (p68).CHAPTER FIVESpirituality: Divine Love'Spiritual seekers let their light shine so that others may see not only to give service by example but also to constantly remind themselves that spirituality is most gloriously embodied in our actions--our habits of being,' (p78).'Usually, they find that the place of suffering--the place where we are broken in spirit, when accepted and embraced, is also a place of peace and possibility.
Hooks makes various general statements on society, how women and men behave (containing a serious amount of gender essentialism, by the way) and relationships in our current society.
There's an undercurrent here of the idea that spiritual love is the solution to the lovelessness in our capitalist society.
Yet at least this chapter still sticks to general references to 'spiritual' love, which can be interpreted pretty broadly.
'All About Love' is a self-help book which contains no practical solutions, only generalizing statements and quotes from books which I would have probably preferred reading.
But closer to the middle and end it sounded like too much of a self-help book (even though she criticized that entire genre for adhering to traditional gender norms) and became a bit too "fluffy".
Her basic definition of love is this: the will to extend one's self for the purpose of nurtuing one's own or another's spiritual growth.
She argues that our societies have completely disengaged "love" and that has led to a disintegration in family life, community life, national priorities and international issues.
We are unable to reconcile love with rational thinking.I enjoyed her critiques of the nuclear family and the disintegration of values--esp.
I loved most of it, with the exception of her claim that one can't truly love others if one doesn't love themselves. Other than that, it made me work on being more honest.
Her insistence on finding a good definition of love in the beginning of the book is the clarifying stroke of genius that makes all the aspects she later explores make sense.
Her methodical definition makes certain things very clear: that love and abuse can't coexist; love cannot be a passive "falling,"; many families that claim to love do not.
There's so many parts I could quote but this one sticks out: When we understand love as the will to nurture our own and another's spiritual growth, it becomes clear that we cannot claim to love if we are hurtful and abusive.
Yes, I agree with the observation that the patriarchy includes that pressure on men, but all the other conclusions seem outlandish.Aside from generalizations, I vehemently disagree with her concern of the lack of spirituality in our lives.
That said, I still believe it is beneficial that she shared her perspectives on this subject even though I disagreed.There were a few moments when I thought "yes!" as I read the novel; when Hooks articulated something I felt in my heart or touched on things that reminded me of my personal experiences and gave a voice to my convoluted hurt.
The book started with a promise but left me unsatisfied towards the end. I am not a fan of self-help books and this book can be classified somewhere between social criticism and self-help. Nevertheless, despite its over-positive tone I found these great tips on the art of loving and living.• “Do not confuse cathecting with loving”• Love and abuse cannot coexist• Genuine love (a combination of care, commitment, trust, knowledge, responsibility and respect) • Care is a dimension of love, but simpl
The book started with a promise but left me unsatisfied towards the end.
Nevertheless, despite its over-positive tone I found these great tips on the art of loving and living.•	“Do not confuse cathecting with loving”•	Love and abuse cannot coexist•	Genuine love (a combination of care, commitment, trust, knowledge, responsibility and respect) •	Care is a dimension of love, but simply giving care does not mean we are loving.•	The definition Hooks used throughout the book: “as the will to extend one’s self for the purpose of nurturing one’s own or another’s spiritual growth”•	Our understanding of love develops through our interactions with our adults when we are children.
I was really looking forward to reading bell hooks, but this particular book was very disappointing.
I honestly didn't see much in its pages that could count as "new." Ultimately, it felt very lazy, disorganized, and fairly conventional.
It's also a very heteronormative book (though she occasionally throws in some "or woman"), also not what I was expecting given bell hooks' reputation.
I just didn't get the intellectual and soulful rigor, the cultural commentary, and the societal and historical analysis I was expecting from bell hooks.
It seems like everyone was a little lazy on this one.
It deserves a better review than I can write now, but I highly recommend anyone and everyone read this book.
Each chapter views love through a differnt lens, all backed by a well thought out and well argued definition for love that should disturb most everyone.hooks writes from the POV of an abuse survivor, and that leads her to both deep insight and flawed conclusions...
I've been trying to get through this book for weeks and I finally gave up today.
For me, this book is simply unreadable.
It's a collage of quotes from self-help books (which she doesn't cite in any formal way, nor is there an index) with broad, oversimplified statements about complicated cultural issues.
She aims to be convincing but her rhetorical strategy is extremely weak.
Hardly the insightful feminist lens I would expect from hooks.
You should read bell hooks, but don't read this.
