https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/233221.Homo_Ludens
initially:it took me a long time, but it's not an easy study and most of the references it made seemed to bounce off my head like some blank wall...
it's an essay, a study, a scientific paper (a long one, for sure) and it brings along a baggage of information that you can hardly incorporate.
i have only been seriously reading scientific, non-fiction works for about a year, and i only lately decided to step up the game and try approaching the more complex books of the genre.
What is play? Well, now you know - it's a lot of things. It's a really exciting text, partly because play is fun to think about, and partly because the writer's passion for the topic grabs hold off your imagination. It's not just play, it's play-culture, it's the play-factor. I've written a few blog posts about it because I feel like the ideas deserve it. Very forward thinking for a turn of the 20th century writer.
Having said that, I do still encourage anyone interested in the topic of games and play to read it, because, although the aforementioned is something that aids in the process of understanding, the basic ideas are explained well enough for anybody willing to understand.
And, although I would say that at some points the idea of play wasn't as compelling and seeing it in almost every sphere of culture seemed a bit of a stretch, I was surprised to see play where I definitely did not expect it.
Johan Huizinga intrigues me and often says things that stick in my head, but he and I ultimately fail to really connect in a transfer of ideas.
Maybe some of his argument is being lost in translation, or perhaps a difference in presuppositions means the occasional leap in his logic is too far for me to follow.
Still, I'm glad I read another of his books.
But this leaves me feeling much the same way as I did at the end of The Waning of the Middle Ages.Hopefully the more modern translation of that book, retitled "The Autumn of the Middle Ages", will do the trick when I get around to it.
En cierto momento, por ejemplo, Huizinga juzga a los juegos de dados como "culturalmente estériles".
Un juicio bastante arbitrario, si tenemos en cuenta que (como demostró F.D. David en Gods, games and gambling) fueron fundamentales para el desarrollo de la teoría de la probabilidad.
Detalles como ese se acumulan en los capítulos ideográficos (bastante aburridos) de la mitad del libro.
Hacia el final del libro Huizinga escribe "Un niño que juega no es infantil, pueril.
Su distinción entre lo lúdico y lo pueril, mucho más clara y fundamental que la de lo lúdico y lo serio, ya me basta para alegrarme de haberlo leído.
A major problem I had with the McGonigal book--the fact that she ignores the economic dimension of how video games are consumed--finds complementary criticism here where Huizinga rigorously defines the circumstances under which "play" can occur in a number of contexts.His approach is highly philological, but even without knowledge of ancient Greek (which, don't get me wrong, would have helped), I still found very interesting Huizinga's instances of how the play-element is embedded in language itself, from Greek to contemporary Dutch (his own language) and English (whose word "fun" Huizinga claims has no perfect analogue in any living language).
The book is written as an almost stream-of-consciousness contemplation on the idea of play, and after giving a vague notion of his definition of the concept, Huizinga goes on to meander through related subjects without a clear hypothesis or point.
I nearly went for a linguistics minor in college, and the chapter on other ideas expressed through words related to play and their possible connection to the "play-concept" fascinated me.
In this chapter, Huizinga gets closest to making any kind of cogent argument: the words for play in many languages refer both to a specific kind of recreational or ritual activity that he defines as the "play-concept" and to rapid or capricious movements of objects, systems, or creatures.
"[In Ethiopia] even under Italian rule, litigation still continued to be a passion and a sport that delighted the natives. According to an English newspaper, a judge received a visit from a man who had lost his case on the previous day, but now said contentedly: 'I had a very bad lawyer, you know, all the same I'm glad to have had a good run for my money!'"
The seminal work in this field of study
This first study of play & culture (1938) gives great basic understanding of what works in gamification and any environment that involves play.
"İnsan düşüncesi zihnin bütün hazinelerine egemen olduğunda ve yeteneklerinin tüm görkemini hissettiğinde bile bütün ciddi akıl yürütmelerin dibinde hala problemli bir tortu kalır.Kesin bir yargının ilanı, kişisel bilinç tarafından tamamen ikna edici olarak kabul edilemez.Yargının sendelediği bu noktada mutlak ciddiyet duygusu yok olur.
Belki de bu durumda, bin yıllık her şey boşuna sözü yerine her şey oyun sözü kendini dayatır ve bu yeni sözün vurgusu daha olumlu olur..." (Johan Huizina) İnsanoğlu kendi yaşamsal varoluşunu anlamlandırabilmek adına, binlerce yıldır tüm silahlarıyla saldırıyor evrenin bilinmezliğine..
Ve ne olup bittiğinin farkında bile olmayan medeniyet tutsakları...Biten yiten herşeye rağmen düşümde düşünüyorum da, hepimiz öyle ya da böyle aynı oyun'un içerisindeyiz...
Buku yang sulit diikuti, bahkan untuk di skim aja sulit. Padahal ingin baca buku ini karena penasaran, kenapa saya (dan banyak orang lainnya) suka banget main, tapi malah bukan main sulitnya. Sisi bagusnya, buku ini membuka wawasan, tentang budaya (terutama budaya main) yang ada di luar sana, ada banyak istilah dari berbagai bahasa, budaya main dan hubungannya dengan berbagai aspek, dari mulai main kata jadi puisi sampai main jadi peperangan. Lumayan untuk bahan cerita.Untuk yang versi bahasa indonesia ada kata pengantar yang sangat bagus dari pak Y.B. Mangunwijaya di awal bukunya.
You have to be for Descartes or against him, for or against Newton, 'les modernes', 'les anciens', the flattening of the earth at the poles, inoculation, etc.''4) ''It has not been difficult to show that a certain play-factor was extremely active all through the cultural process and that it produces many of the fundamental forms of social life.
The spirit of playful competition is, as a social impulse, older than culture itself and pervades all life like a veritable ferment.
Civilization will, in a sense, always be played according to certain rules, and true civilization will always demand fair play.
Algunas cosas me parecieron forzadas, o más bien, se nota que Huizinga quiso introducir sus estudios académicos a este tratado acerca del juego.
Se complementa muy bien con Man, Play & Games de Callois, pues ambos se apoyan en el concepto agonal y vanal del juego.
En mi caso particular me sirve de estudio para comprender los esports que, desde la tesis de Huizinga y de Callois, es completamente válido.
Journalist Tom Chatfield of Prospect has chosen to discuss Johan Huizinga's  Homo Ludens , on FiveBooks as one of the top five on his subject - Computer Games, saying that:It’s a book about the way that play precedes culture, and is a distinct and very complicated human phenomenon, which the author sees as giving rise to much that we think of as civilisation, as encoding a set of human values, ideas and ways of being in the world.”The full interview is available here: http://five-books.com/inter
Journalist Tom Chatfield of Prospect has chosen to discuss Johan Huizinga's 
  Homo Ludens
, on FiveBooks as one of the top five on his subject - Computer Games, saying that:It’s a book about the way that play precedes culture, and is a distinct and very complicated human phenomenon, which the author sees as giving rise to much that we think of as civilisation, as encoding a set of human values, ideas and ways of being in the world.”The full interview is available here: http://five-books.com/interviews/tom-chatfield
The worst book I have ever read. I had to read it for school and I didn't like it at all, I couldn't even finish it.
El resultado es que el “juego” se ha transformado en una “mancha voraz” capaz de englobar casi cualquier posibilidad.Para que el análisis que hace el autor rinda como objeto del que se habla el juego, es imperativo resignificar la palabra.
Lo que supone, también, quitarle el sentido que tenía al inicio del libro.Deja de hablar de juego e incorpora el concepto de “funciones lúdicas”, y aquí es donde encuentro lo que ha intentado demostrar: Que las formas lúdicas poseen una función cultural creadora.Para una lectura amena creo que leería el primer capítulo y el último, y consideraría lo que está entremedio como “notas aclaratorias”.
Institutions such as religion, law, government, and the armed forces originally started as play-forms, or games, and only gradually did they become rigid and serious.
According to this criterion, ritual and mimesis, sports, games and theatrical performances emancipated man from their animal bonds, during those primitive ceremonies in which man played at being another kind of animal (Mumford).Huizinga also introduces the concept of the magic circle, a specially marked space that separates a game from the rest of the world.
Players of a game step across this boundary into the magic circle, and by doing so voluntarily suspend the rules of the real world and accept the rules of the game.
Até 1868, os japoneses costumavam escrever em forma poética as partes mais importantes dos documentos de Estado.""A verdadeira designação do poeta arcaico é Vates, o possesso, inspirado por Deus, em transe [...] O poeta-vidente vai gradualmente assumindo as figuras do profeta, do sacerdote, do adivinho, do mistagogo e do poeta tal como o conhecemos; e também o filósofo, o legislador, o orador, o demagogo, o sofista e o mestre de retórica brotam desse tipo de compósito primordial que é o Vates.""Em qualquer civilização viva e florescente, sobretudo nas culturas arcaicas, a poesia desempenha uma função vital que é social e litúrgica ao mesmo tempo.
I think the key insight that the nature of play as something that was apart from other functions became the model for much of the key features of civilization is well taken, and it is intriguing to see him work with so much different material, including cultures beyond Europe to make his point.
Almost 70 years on the point about modern cultures both taking play to a new level with professional sports and in other way blurring the lines between play and other lives seems to have aged well.
Een filosofisch-historische verhandleing over de geschiedenis van het Spel in en van de Culturen van de vroegere tijden tot de moderne.
Het spel bepaalt en bezielt een groot deel van de culturen op groot en klein niveau; bovendien zijn veel van onze maatschappelijke handelingen en verhoudingen vandaag de dag nog altijd beïnvloed door het fenomeen Spel, zij het dat de spelgeest er uit verdwenen is.
Huizinga zet zijn betoog vrij helder uiteen, al speelt hij her en der wel flink met het vermogen van de lezer om de kern uit een zin te halen.
bize üniversitede okutulan akademik kitapların havası var homo ludens'te: yazar, önce oyun kavramının etraflıca bir tarifini yapıyor, sonra bu tarifler üzerinden kültürün pek çok temel ögesini oyun kavramıyla bağlantılandırıyor.
bunu yaparken de ilkel kültürden günümüze önemli örnekler üzerinde duruyor.
ben çok beğendim, hatta halk bilimci olsam bu kitapla dede korkut üzerinde akademik bir çalışma bile yapardım.
dede korkut hikâyelerinde oyun konulu.
ilkel kültürlerin, efsanelerin farklı coğrafyalarda bunca benzeşmesini görmek bile insanı hayrete düşürüyor.
güzel bir kitap tavsiye ederim.
(çevirmen mehmet ali kılıçbay, kelimelerin bazen eski şekillerini tercih etmiş, bu bazı yerlerde eserin anlaşılmasını engelliyor ama belki yazarın üslûbunu yansıtmak içinde yapmış olabilir bilemedim)
I can't express enough praise about how beautifully Johan Huizinga writes. He seems to me one of the most complex and well balanced personalities I've ever encountered, from a reader's perspective.His style there is full of ingredients like humor, sensitivity, reason and scientific rigor, firmness, sharpness, insight, insurgence, ease and joviality, grace and sparks of brilliance, notwithstanding even the occasional repetitiveness and tediousness, which somehow also works in his favor - all of that in good measure, not out of stinginess but with generosity.
The concept if this book is of follows: what is play and how can we identify the play-element in our culture?One thing to note that this text is very difficult to skim through. I will have to read it again to truly understand the writer's intentions and goals.I give it 5 stars because it definitely proposes interesting points and confronts our conception of seriousness. Do we understand what seriousness means? By constantly trying to be serious are we killing freedom? Why are we so obsessed with professionalisation of everything?
¿Desde cuándo existe el juego? ¿Qué es el deporte? ¿Por qué jugamos? El medievalista holandés Johan Huizinga (1872-1945) se mete con este tema y sus consecuencias históricas, en un ensayo inusual y atrapante.
While the central definition of play and the ideas spun from this were revelatory, each idea had to be excavated from text that didn't offer a recognizable through-line and was therefore a less than pleasant read.
A great tour through civilization with a focus on the play-element. Lots of etymology from many languages. The genesis of certain structures as grounded in play is also fascinating, eg. the legal system, and courts (like a tennis court, a play area).
La clase de libro con un capítulo tan extraordinario que justifica que el resto del sea un poco repetitivo.
so long but okay and profound
This is quite dense and old-school positivist way of writing. But the point comes across very well.
