https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/539282.Fences
Part of Wilson's Century cycle of plays each depicting one decade of African American life during the 20th century, Fences takes us back to the 1950s when African Americans were first beginning to make inroads into white society.
A recurring theme in Wilson's Century plays, the playwright has multiple characters with an eye toward achieving the American dream with one protagonist living in his traditions of the past.
In Fences, Troy Maxson is this such character as he would rather that Cory follow in his footsteps than be his own person.
August Wilson has created a legacy in his Century cycle plays, four of which earned the Pulitzer and other multiple awards.
Yet the play nevertheless ends with something like an apotheosis: in his wife’s Rose summing up (“I don’t know if he was right or wrong … but I do know he meant to do more good than he meant to do harm”); in his two children who sing again an old song Troy once sang; and in his brain-damaged brother Gabriel, who raises a trumpet to his lips to blow his brother past St. Peter's Gate, right into his fenced-in heavenly home.I’ll conclude with Troy’s last soliloquy, spoken to Death after Death has come for the mother of his newborn daughter:
What a paradoxal character Troy is.You could analyse him for hours!
I read this in college for my "The Drama" course. I'm looking forward to watching the film.
Troy Maxson has gone through life in an America where to be proud and black is to face pressures that could crush a man, body and soul.
But the 1950s are yielding to the new spirit of liberation in the 1960s, a spirit that is changing the world Troy Maxson has learned to deal with the only way he can, a spirit that is making him a stranger, angry and afraid, in a world he never knew and to a wife and son he understands less and less.Oscar:2* La La Land6* Hidden Figures4* Fences4* Florence Foster Jenkins
3.5 Stars1987 Pulitzer prize winner for drama  "Some people build fences to keep people out and other people build fences to keep people in"  Fences is a very interesting period drama set in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and the year is 1957. The story is all about Troy, a 53 years old African-American and his family. We get to experience Troy's relationship with various members of the play and each of them is unique. We are exposed to many themes here: Racism, family values, relationships, and death
The story is all about Troy, a 53 years old African-American and his family.
We get to experience Troy's relationship with various members of the play and each of them is unique.
But the story thrives on the complicated characterization of Troy.
Seriously, I've never read a character as complicated as Troy.
You got to me real good here.Overall, read this for the complexity of our lead character.Can't wait to watch Denzel Washington's take on the character!--------------------------------------UpdateAnd Denzel Washington did an admirable job bringing life to Troy in the movie.
So did others.The movie adapts the play completely (line-by-line) and adds some more materials to the story.
So If you've seen the movie, you've experienced the play!
The play itself has so many raw pieces of the African-American culture woven into it that you can't help, but feel as if Wilson is talking to you as he writes the play.
It sort of feels like he looked into a piece of your soul and wrote what was hidden deep inside of it.
Even if you're not of African or African-American descent, you'll find something in this play to love.
The play is a quick read and worth watching if you ever get a chance to see it performed live.**Update: Go see the film with Denzel Washington and Viola David.
در پرده اول، صحنه چهارم، هم تروی و هم بونو داستان های دوران کودکی و سختی های خود را شبیه وضعیت لیونز می دانند.
این خاطرات اغلب دردناک آن ها بستری فراهم می کند برای این که به شباهت ها و تفاوت های نسل تروی و بونو با لیونز و کوری پی ببریم.
هم چون بسیاری از سیاهپوست هایی که بعد از لغو برده داری زندگی می کرده اند، پدر تروی هم یک مساقات کار ناموفق بوده است (مساقات قراردادی میان صاحب مزرعه با عامل است که متعهد میگردد مراقبت و رسیدگی از جمله آبیاری نسبت به مزرعه داشته باشد و در نهایت محصول بهدستآمده به
هم چون بسیاری از سیاهپوست هایی که بعد از لغو برده داری زندگی می کرده اند، پدر تروی هم یک مساقات کار ناموفق بوده است (مساقات قراردادی میان صاحب مزرعه با عامل است که متعهد می‌گردد مراقبت و رسیدگی از جمله آبیاری نسبت به مزرعه داشته باشد و در نهایت محصول به‌دست‌آمده به نسبتی که قبلاً توافق کرده‌بودند، میان هر دو تقسیم شود).
ولی برعکس پدر تروی، پدر بونو هیچ گاه مسئولیت خانواده و خرج آن ها را بر عهده نگرفته است.
ولی برعکس تصورات بونو، این شیوه زندگی پدر بیش تر به خاطر خلق و خوی شخصی اوست نه فرار از مسئولیت های خانواده.
ميشه نظر نداد؟! ميشه نظر نداشت؟! بايد فكر كنم!پايان بندي، روابط خانوادگي، كاراكتر"رز" و تا حد زيادي "تروي" با مرگ فروشنده مو نميزد، چرا؟!
Fences is Phenomenal What a wonderful play. I wish I had seen the original starring James Earl Jones as Troy Maxson and Mary Alice as Rose. At the beginning of the book it lists the original players and mentally they fit perfectly. I pictured them the whole time. Even though I have never seen this live there is so much life in August Wilson's words that just reading it you can almost see the play. I feel the need to apologize to the memory of August Wilson for living in his birth city and the l
Even though I have never seen this live there is so much life in August Wilson's words that just reading it you can almost see the play.
Although he was from a different time period than I, it was amazing reading this play and feeling so connected as it took place in my town.
It felt wonderful reading a book/play that takes place in my town.
A friend and I just discussed how all of August's plays should be required reading in our city public schools.
No surprise - great play - an August Wilson play. An average black man in the 1950's - trying his best to make his way in an average American city. Working hard, looking for more, and knowing that his chances are slim to none. The expectations of his wife and children, his expectation of himself and running from both. Responsibilities, vulnerabilities, infidelities and expectations are all witnessed in this short play. This will be a movie in 2017. Reenacted by Denzel Washington and Viola Davis from their original award winning play on Broadway.
“There ought not never have been no time called too early.”Troy is supported by a devoted wife, Rose, and a great friend, Bono, but he’s struggling with the times, challenging his bosses about the fact that there are no Negro drivers among the city’s garbage men, trying to raise his sons his way while they push for their own way, and wrestling with temptations related to love and identity.
Besides hauling people’s garbage.” Equally complex and all too human are the personal battles Troy fights.
1 StarI really did not enjoy this. Literally, I could not find one thing that I enjoyed in this play. Nothing. There was not one character I could connect to or identity with. So, if I wasn't bored, I was mad at Troy for being so blatantly sexist. Honestly, plays just aren't my thing, so I cannot wait until the day I no longer have to read them for English classes.
I am a middle aged Caucasian AP Lit teacher, so while some might expect my reactions to center on the African American experience, what struck me first was the recognizable conflicts between father and son, husband and wife, man and woman.
I felt a kinship to Troy, Cory and Rose, even while I watched the fruits (consequences?) of a life experience for which I had no frame of reference.
I felt "it shouldn't be this way" while I acknowledged "isn't this the way it always is?" I did expect more plot, but Fences plays more as a reflection or observation of a life past than a trip through the life.
Aidan has been telling me to read this since his Honors English class read it in October. I finally picked it up (to better understand the essay he wrote about it) and devoured it in an hour or two. Talk about dense story-telling! Closer to poetry in a way, capturing so much in so few words. I will never forget Troy, who reminded me of a more-alive version of Willy Loman. Highly recommended.
SIX WORD REVIEW: For Negro leaguers banned from majors.
August Wilson does an outstanding job capturing the moment through the primary perspective of a 53-year-old garbageman in Troy Maxson and a family that can be described as typical in the way that they are everything BUT typical.
Fences is the kind of play that is easy to read, but at the same time it makes you want to see it acted out.
Troy Maxson lives with his second wife, Rose, as well as his teenaged son, Cory, who goes to school, works part-time at A&P, but wants to become a football player.
(Which just means that Wilson did an amazing job, btw, not that I can't enjoy the read because of Troy as a character.)It's not a simple read, though on the outside it's easy to be like "Oh, yeah, okay, fences, yup, got it." These characters have depth which normally in plays (for me anyway) is hard to recognize unless I'm watching the performance itself.
But I also look forward to finally watching the movie which I have been putting off so I could (re?)read the play.I was surprised that this was included in the Battle of the Books (this is another one where I was able to answer all of the questions about this book correctly) initially, but after reading it I fully understand.
I've been meaning to read this since I saw the incredible film adaptation.
There were several bits of this play that were super compelling: the scene where Cory asks his dad, Troy, why he doesn't love him; the scene where Rose lets Troy know that she's been faithful to him in the past the 18 years of their marriage (I can't help but conjure Viola Davis' face in my mind when I read "I've been standing in the same spot with you!"), and the scene where Cory tells his mother that he's not going to his dad's funeral.
A really, really great read!
I enjoyed this play. August wilson brings to light how difficult it was for african-americans to survive during segregated times. It was written as a drama with a dash of comedy. Wilson also gave an outstanding visual of family dynamics. I'm glad I read it and I cant wait for the movie to come out December 25th
I really enjoyed it; I thought I wasn't going to but it was insightful.
It was way too short. I didn't feel any attachment to really any of the characters either. Things happened way too fast and randomly, as well.
A working-class African-American father tries to raise his family in the 1950s, while coming to terms with the events of his life.A movie was made based on this play, with Denzel Washington, Viola Davis, Stephen Henderson . Directed by Denzel Washington.
I loved the first Act of this play. I even enjoyed scene 1 of Act II. After that, however, it was all downhill. The end was too fast and too much happening with little development and rushed resolutions to the various stories. The first Act was absolutely great! Great language and flow, character development etc. I don't understand how the second Act fell apart so much, but, hey, this won the Pulitzer Prize for literature; so, what do I know!? lol
Loved it!!! Wish I could see the play, can't wait to see the movie!
1 Minute Video Book Review:https://youtu.be/t2WB_oa6XFM"Can't visit the sins of the father upon the child."A few summers back, August Wilson's play, FENCES, was performed at a local theater.
On the porch of a small house, with a dirt yard, we meet Troy Maxson, his wife Rose, their son Cory, Troy's other son, Lyons, and Troy's disabled brother, Gabe, and, additionally, Bono, Troy's lifelong friend.Unfortunately, Troy is not a likeable man.
Determined his son is living in a fantasy, Troy continually gives Cory a hard time, setting unrealistic goals with little care of the consequences.Gabe, Troy's younger brother, fought in World War II.
But the events go awry especially by the Death of the Protagonist following by the events that happens after his funeral.Positive and Negative Aspects:The Play portrays the miserable life and culture of the Black people inside the big cities in the U.S In fact it was a nice technique to criticize certain idea through literature.
I guess it really reflex all my intentions too.Recommendations:Due to it's complexity in understanding, I would recommend this play to those who makes researches concerning the Black people in America and their past situation inside the cities.
I figured it was time I stopped planning to read it and, you know, actually read it.Like Death of a Salesman and so many other theatrical classics, Fences is a family drama that interrogates modern ways of living by highlighting the tensions that arise between husbands and wives, parents and children.
I am tempted to descend into a list of cliches about how expertly crafted the Troy character is and how well the text highlights the mixture of pride and resentment that a talented African American man like Troy must feel to see the world "improving" for children who do not appreciate how good they have it or how many sacrifices he has made for them.
One of the most poignant scenes is when Rose, the protagonist's wife, discovers Troy Maxon has been unfaithful to her and fathered another child.
I gave eighteen years of my life to stand in the same spot with you.
Don't you think it ever crossed my mind to want to know other men?
I took all my feelings, my wants and needs, my dreams ..
I planted myself inside you and waited to bloom, and it didn't take me no eighteen years to find out the soil was hard and rocky and it wasn't never gonna bloom.
Rose, Troy's wife, is the glue that holds the family together.
But there is an angry undercurrent in Troy.I was a theatre major, but we read Piano Lessons in class and not Fences.
I don't remember much about it; an unfortunate side effect of reading a couple plays a week for several semesters.
After finishing Fences today I feel a need to go back and read all his works.
Troy and Rose are complex characters.
Rose is a rock; the glue of the family.
How the other characters interact with these two, and how they interact with each other is fascinating to read.
Fences is a heart-rending picture of an African American family doing the best that they can in the North that rejected them after their migration from the South.
Troy is a hard man, but he is someone that you have to feel for because of all the obstacles that have stood in his way from birth.
*Spoiler-ish*Post-slavery, Troy's sharecropper father was a terror to his wives and children, abusing the only power he had, to the point where Troy walked the 200 miles then hitched a ride to "freedom" in the North.
But when Troy arrived in Pittsburgh, there was no place a black man could live or work, and so he became a criminal just to survive.
His dream was once to be able to become a baseball player for the MLB but because of the racial discrimination that faced him, he never acheived that dream, and doesnt want the same to happen with his younger son Cory.
At first, I was confused why a book like this would be called Fences, but if you read it, you see how August Wilson used dialogue written in the format of a play in able to put his perspective out there about the world, the colored man and the society that they try to survive in every day.
I saw this play on Christmas Day after having a copy of it on my shelf for years and DAMN do I feel like a fool for not reading it sooner.
The cadence and heart of this play is incredible the characters in their attempt to break out of the cages that society (and they themselves) are trapped is amazing and the the genius of August Wilson is something I wish I had been exposed to so much earlier.
I will elaborate further in the future, but this is a beautiful play and an essential of the American theater.
This is everything I want from a story!
Read it, watch it, but do yourself a favour and don't put it off.
In the words of Denzel Washington, who has charmed me for eternity by giving life to the intricate soul that is Troy Maxson, this story didn't get nominated for an Oscar because of "Oscars so white".
It's outstanding, one of the best family dramas I've ever come across.If you do want to see the movie without reading this (which would be totally fine, a play is meant to be seen, not necessarily read), please don't watch the trailer.
And it didn't take me no eighteen years to find out the the soil was hard and rocky and it wasn't never gonna bloom."- Rose Maxson, FencesWell, that got quite dramatic very quickly!PLEASE AVERT EYES IF YOU HAVEN'T READ ALREADY OR SEEN THE RECENT DENZEL WASHINGTON/VIOLA DAVIS MOVIE.
I felt that August Wilson wrote a really beautiful play that captured the overall zeitgeist of 1957 America for African Americans and that old school, contradicting, and polarizing persona of Troy Maxson.I hated Troy more than empathize with him.
His characters are multidimensional (I really liked Rose), but there is no mistake: this is Troy Maxson's play.
Troy takes me back to Toby yelling at the president: "Let the poets write that he had the tools of greatness, but the voices of his better angels was shouted down by his obsessive need to win." (West Wing, because apparently I'm one of those classy people who sees great literature through the lens of primetime television).
Even the most comic line of dialogue can drive at the heart of the characters or the play's purpose (is there anything that sums up Troy's character better than when it is revealed that he demanded his promotion despite not having a driver's license?
From the opening scene to the final blackout, it was pure perfection.
I felt my heart move with each character as though I were standing on the street watching the scenes unfold.
I can understand why it won a Pulitzer.
In my opinion, it should've won two Pulitzers for being that great.
I'm sad that I read it all in one day.
I'm thrilled that I read it.
If you've not read this, do yourself a favor, put everything aside for a day and just read.
This play is on par with "To Kill A Mockingbird" and "A Tree Grows In Brooklyn." Absolutely perfect in every way.
I liked this play. I didn't agree with some of what goes on in this, but I did enjoy it and now, I need to watch the movie.
Read this senior year in high school.Interesting to learn that now they're coming out with a movie featuring Denzel Washington and Viola Davis.Troy irritated me the entire time and the whole other kid situation was too much for me. Rose is a strong woman.There was a bit of funny moments with the slang. (I am a black girl so I got the humor really well). And even the drama had its moments of interest. But for the most part this book was just okay.
4.5/5I really enjoyed this. Every scene was interesting, and this play covered so many facets of the human experience and explored so many of man's faults. I thought this was a really thought-provoking read, and I'd definitely recommend it.
So worth a read! It was funny, heart wrenching with many chilling scenes and memorable characters! I strongly recommend "FENCES" and look forward in reading the rest of the late August Wilson's works.
I read this play years ago and am rereading it in preparation for the film that is coming out on Christmas.
I recall not liking his character in the first reading.
Sometimes with age comes wisdom and growth because my disapproval for Troy's character shifted dramatically.
This time around, those things remained true, but I was able to grasp that the foundation of Troy's frustrations with life and his family were a result of never being offered the opportunity or space for growth and success.
There's a scene where she talks about standing in the same place with Troy for 18 years.
That scene breaks my heart each time I read it.
He demonstrates the idea of transferring your own hindrances onto others, especially your children and family is extremely harmful.When Bono talks about his childhood, we begin to see the theme of the play represented through his life.
The theme of the play is represented in the life of Cory when he stands up for himself against Troy, this is a turning point.
Cory becomes hindered by Troy’s mistakes, but he becomes a better person than him because he learns from his fathers’ mistakes and struggle with himself.Bono, Cory, and Troy dealt with problems created by their parental upbringing.
The exemplary play Fences by August Wilson, was far yet one of the best book I ever read.
Bono, Troy garbage collector co-worker, states “some people build fences to keep people out…… and other people built fences to keep people in,” (Wilson, Pg 59).
Death and escape were the pivotal ideas that Wilson put emphasis on.
Wilson wanted to escape poverty and discrimination, and did this through drinking and through the fabrication of fences.
Ultimately, Wilson is saying the death in inevitable and that neither physical nor mental barrier will hamper the fate of mortality.
To be a Black man in an August Wilson play, is to receive a gift from the drama gods, because Wilson builds fatastic, intriguing, complicated, beautiful male characters.
In Fences, Troy is embittered by his dream of being denied the opportunity to play in the major leagues.
Troy is never able to support his son Cory, who has dreams, and the very real opportunity to become a football player and to go to college.
I hate Troy, the main character, so much that I found myself not wanting to read this at all.
I get that Troy may not have been intended to be likeable, but there comes a point where the actions and words of a character discourages the reader from continuing on and reading the rest with an open mind.
After I established my distaste for this character, every time I read lines from him I nitpicked every single thing and thought to myself "Yes, he IS an asshole." And I seethed even more, causing me to be even more nitpicky with him.
