https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116341.The_Ivy_Tree
And so begins a dangerous deception, soon complicated by the arrival of a neighbor, Adam, with whom Annabel had fallen in love so many years ago.The ivy tree of the title is an old oak tree on the Winslow property that is covered with ivy:Here a giant oak stood.
It's not at all clear that Annabel and Adam ever slept together during their earlier love affair; I think it's most likely they didn't, based on some details in the story.The first time I read this years ago I was totally blindsided when it was revealed near the end that Mary actually is Annabel.
While I wasn't sure who the heroine really was till near the finish, I also wasn't sure who the love interest was - the romance was sparse, even by Stewart's standards.
At one stage I was wondering how Mary/Anabel could even see where she was going through the constant haze of smoke!& (view spoiler)[ another book is referenced.
While Brat Farrar is a wonderful book, all of Tey's works are very difficult to get hold of in my country if you don't have an ereader.
There was never a part of Brat Farrar where I was bored, whereas there are a couple of lulls in this book.
i don't have a very big embarrassment-button, but there was something about reading it in public that added a layer onto the experience of it, because i am not usually aware of how i am perceived unless i am acting in a completely unacceptable way (and i have also a broad tolerance for what is acceptable)but i felt watched and judged - which i know was completely in my mind.
but i felt like observers were clucking their tongues "that poor girl isn't getting any and is compensating by reading romance novels.
This might well be the most cleverly and tightly plotted of all Mary Stewart's romance-mystery novels and--alone among her novels--this is the only one with a seemingly unreliable narrator.
When we first meet Mary Grey, she is enjoying the early morning sun and (of course!) having a smoke in the fine spring air near Hadrian's Wall.The second hand smoke doesn't seem to bother the lambs.What I loved most was the skill with which Mary Stewart kept me in suspense about who Mary really is while leading me to sometimes sympathize and sometimes doubt her integrity and kind heart.
I instinctively liked Mary--but did I dare trust her?
I’ve been kind of putting off writing a review for this.
I guess it’s because I didn’t enjoy it quite as much as the other Stewart books I’ve read.
You can always see that there is going be a big twist at the end when information is being withheld, especially when it’s in first person.That’s not to say it was bad.
As always, Mary Stewart writes wonderfully.
The ending was exciting and the book had a nice gothy atmosphere to it.I’m giving The Ivy Tree ***½ stars.
After all, most Mary Stewart books are better than your average mystery.
Something screamed in the grass.And, one might certainly think of Mary Stewart’s work as more fun than thought, but I find that is a deception.
A thing that is beautiful on the outside, but rotten within (like a certain character in this book), evidence that something that appears strong may just be a crumbling weakness, and a reminder that love and desires that cannot be shown publicly, but must be hidden away, can be dangerous.In my quest to re-read all the Mary Stewart canon, I am glad I did not miss The Ivy Tree.
While not my personal favorite in the Stewart pantheon, The Ivy Tree is still a well executed and cleverly plotted suspense novel from the queen of romantic suspense, and deserves every one of my 4 stars.
And if you're like some readers of this particular Stewart novel, you might find yourself turning back to Chapter One after reading "The End".
Yes, it's that kind of book...Mary Stewart Group Read in April, 2013
This is the third novel by Mary Stewart I’ve read in the past few months and my least favourite so far.
Some early references to the Wall and a theme involving a search for Roman ruins provide the totality of the Northumberland scene setting.
In a way, Stewart hid everything in plain sight, which is clever writing, but not clever enough to overcome my disappointment with the predictability of the plot.
Although I’ve focused on the negatives, I don’t wish to imply that I disliked reading the novel.
I particularly enjoyed enjoyed reading it with Jemidar and lots of others in the Mary Stewart Group.
I had discovered her books through the Moonspinners, first on the Wonderful World of Disney, with Hayley Mills and the lovely Peter McEnery, upon whom I had a crush.
Movie was fun, but the books, oh, the books...with those I have had a life-long love affair.
After I tracked down the aforementioned book, I discovered some very unprepossessing looking books on my mother’s bookshelves which turned out to be several more of Mary Stewart’s novels, including this one.
I just read Brat Farrar by Josephine Tey, to which Mary Stewart alludes in this novel, and the combination of suspense and horses is heavenly.
This was Mary Grey's first dilemma, one which she resolved by agreeing to the plot suggested by a strange woman she talked with in the town of Newcastle.
Is Mary Grey who she says she is?
And, most importantly, is scene-stealing Tommy really Tommy?!I had great fun with this book.
I am so glad to have rediscovered Mary Stewart!
I was caught up in the story from the first page, and had fun making guesses about who was who all the way through to the Big Reveal, besides holding my breath more than once after that.
How could you not when there were passages like this:The kitchen was a big, pleasant room, with a high ceiling, a new cream-coloured Aga stove, and long curtains that stirred in the June breeze.
The black and white cat asleep in the rocking chair took no notice of the sounds, or of the tempting heavings and buttings of small heads and bodies against the covering flannel.Mary Stewart excels in creating atmosphere to the point where you are there.
It certainly took me away like no Calgon ever could!
This is my second Mary Stewart gothic romance.
Much of the enjoyment in these books resides in experiencing the twists and turns of the plot as they unfold.
I was wrong, wrong, wrong, and then wrong again.If the book has a flaw, it is that it starts slow and the twists don't start revealing themselves until the second half of the book.
I thought that Stewart's method for revealing one of the twists was particularly subtle and clever, and a bit bewildering at the beginning of the process.So many of these stories are set in Cornwall and on the moors, that I always like to mention the setting.
Mary Grey, visitor from Canada, is mistaken for the lovely Annabel Winslow who had run away to the States eight years ago.
Mary meets Connor Winslow, cousin to Annabel, and then Con's sister, Lisa.
I can say that this story is thrilling and a real page turner towards the end.There are many memorable characters and Mary Stewart does a fantastic job of bringing them to life.
Stewart has cleverly sprinkled clues throughout and a reread is an absolute must in order to fully appreciate the genius of Mary Stewart.
(view spoiler)[ The first clue I missed was on the second page!
THE IVY TREE (Suspense, Mary Grey/Annabel Winslow-England-cont) - ExStewart, Mary – StandaloneHodder & Stoughton, 1961, UK Hardcover First Sentence: I might have been alone in a painted landscape.*** Annabel Winslow has been dead for four years.
Con, and his half-sister, Lisa, work up a plan for Mary to pretend to be the missing Annabel long enough to ensure her grandfather passes the ownership of Whitescar to Con in his will.
Annabel Winslow has been dead for four years.
Stewart is always such a pleasure to read and this is one of, if not the, best of her works.
Mary Stewart weaves a tapestry drawing you in with poetic whimsy that brings alive the mood and moment, it took a second read to see the clues so cleverly hidden in the musings.
It's the writing that raises this from a simple mystery to something special, almost mystical in places.There's a timeless quality to it and a great cast.
Lots of creepy suspense, discreet but real emotion.
This isn't a book where you have to unveil the evil, it's one where it parades in the open, preens under your regard raising the question as to what it'll do.
My favourite of Stewart's mysteries.
We enter the story at Hadrian's Wall, where Mary Grey is accosted by a man who insists that he knows her, and that her name is really Annabel.
Mary finds herself agreeing, and soon is up to her pretty neck in more than she bargained for.
She soon starts to wonder why Annabel disappeared, and if she herself might be in danger.And then she discovers that Annabel had a lover that Conner didn't know about...Read this in conjunction with Josephine Tey's Brat Farrar for a imposter/inheritance double-feature of fun!
It seems to me that every Stewart story should have been filmed by Hitchcock. Why weren't they?Anyway, a perfect story set near Hadrian's wall, with old estates, family conflict over inheritance, a little mystery, a lot of suspense, and some accurate and engaging scenery.I suppose the Barbara Vine books come out of this sort of mold, as well as the Mary Higgins Clark books.
Possibly my favourite Mary Stewart so far -- and the last of her mystery/romances, which is possibly why.
I accidentally spoilered myself as to the end of this one, but that was okay because the narration is clever enough that I just spent the time trying to catch Mary/Annabel out.I wish I knew what it was that makes Mary Stewart's mystery/romances work for me, but I can't really put my finger on it.
She didn't make me fall in love with Con -- I saw him coming far too easily, the way he was -- or understand Mary/Annabel's willingness to work for his interests, but still.
I almost gave this a five but, the first half was slow and I actually figured it out momentarily.Still it was well worth the read.
All the people I know who smoke as much as she did sound like there's sandpaper down their gullet.
The mystery was good and reminded me of Nancy Drew, just not for children.
I will read more by this author if this one is any thing to go by.
Another mystery similar to this isDeath in Zanzibar and The Forsaken Inn both of which I enjoyed.
Another good mystery/romantic suspense story by Mary Stewart; The Ivy Tree wasn't my favorite, but was still good.
The secret about Mary was an interesting twist, but I'm not sure how plausible the whole premise was.
Stewart's books usually incorporate insta-love, but not this one, which was a good thing.
Stewart has a talent for writing good descriptive surroundings, but in this case it was a bit too much and I felt like it ate into a couple of the suspenseful scenes.
The best thing about this book is that Mary Stewart kept me guessing about Mary's identity.Review also posted at Writings of a Reader
It's so hard to say this is my favorite Mary Stewart novel, but I think it is.
Whichever kind Jennine is eating is her favorite.
But, the only other of Mary's novels that might steal the title of favorite is Nine Coaches Waiting.
LOLThe Ivy Tree was the first Mary Stewart, non-Arthurian-trilogy novel I read and I was blown away.
If you haven't yet discovered her work, and you are a digital reader, you will be pleased to know that all but the Arthurian novels were released this year in the Kindle format.So good.
I didn't really get into this until probably halfway through or so...it puzzled me as to whom I was supposed to like, whom I was supposed to trust. Then a plot twist made things a little clearer. It wasn't as gripping as a couple of the other Mary Stewart books that have kept me up of nights to find out what happens, but it did pick up some steam toward the ending.
Fantastic! Review to follow
The Morrow U.S. edition and following reprints cut out an entire chapter and a major plot point that really does add more depth to the story.
Secrets of the past burn strongly up into the present in a lush northern England farm setting vividly painted by Stewart's magnificent prose.
The character Con is credited for starting the macho arrogant male lead in all the Harlequin and similar romances that followed in the wake of this frontrunner, and persist to this day in the current romantic suspense books.
He is the daddy of them all.Again, why Hitchcock didn't make this into a movie (or any of Mary Stewart's books, for that matter) is a mystery to me.
Yes, this was descriptive the way Gothic novels are, but Stewart never let it overtake the plot or the momentum of the story.First published in 1961 in Britain (1962 here in the States), The Ivy Tree has an almost timeless quality to it.
I suppose part of that is what plays into the romantic, airy quality of the setting.Not nearly as grand or as well-known, but I'd venture to say that this is my own personal Wuthering Heights, a book for which I do not care.
I'll always have a soft spot for this author's wonderful work.
This is a quietly paced cozy mystery, wonderful for time and place.
Set in the isolated bleakness of Northumberland it involves a missing heiress who suddenly returns under a cloud of mystery.Whilst I don't think it is as strong as some of Mary Stewart's other books, it's still an engaging read.
I enjoyed that it was not revealed who Annabel Winslow really was until the final pages.
I also liked that the hero wasn't quite as clear cut as in other books.Really enjoyed the descriptions of the Northumbrian countryside, it's history and beauty.
This was the book that got me hooked on Mary Stewart and it actually improved on second reading. Still one of her best, with exquisitely-constructed suspense, a thoroughly memorable plot twist, a wonderfully three-dimensional villain, and some great themes about doing the right thing rather than the thing your heart leads you to do, with far more of a sense of Providence and morality than I've found in Stewart's other works. This is also definitely a book you have to read at least twice to get the full effect of. Thoroughly enjoyable.
I read this book while sitting on Hadrian's Wall in Great Britain (and got soaked for my troubles during the Hexham Fair later that week...) and so I felt right at home in the World of "The Ivy Tree" which takes place in that very place. This is a terrific suspense romance. My wife has currently read it twice since I introduced her to it last year, and I have multipled it myself several times. On my faves list.
But then Mary Stewart didn't set much value in genre categories anyway, so you just have to kind of go with it and trust her.The story starts off a bit slowly, but maybe that was only my impression, or maybe it's because anyone who reads a few of the author's other books before this one expects something different from the start.
More subtly, the attitudes to the "place" of men and women, and the power [im:]balances between them, make it impossible to forget that this is a novel of an earlier time.There are plot elements that I can't refer to without revealing major spoilers, so I won't.
But I found this a gripping story, with well-drawn characters and an intriguing plot.
Towards the end, the tension is ramped up to the point that I almost became breathless at times.The setting (near Hadrian's Wall) is attractively described, and Stewart manages to slip in some geology and Roman history without ever remotely overdoing it.
