https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102827.Merry_Hall
Sometimes this realization comes by chance; he may be standing in a Georgian doorway, and the sun may shine on it, and he may look up and suddenly perceive that he is standing in a frame that is as perfect as a melody by Mozart.The book opens with his search, during the year after the end of World War II, for a home – actually, for a garden that happens to includes a house.
(Nichols would definitely have enjoyed the mouse-in- the-raspberries story.) In short, this book will be a delight to anyone who: (a) loves gardens; (b) is an Anglophile; and/or (c) loves cats.
Babies, as all bachelors will agree, should not be allowed at large unless they are heavily draped, and fitted with various appliances for absorbing sound and moisture.
If young married persons persist in their selfish pursuit of populating the planet, they should be compelled to bear the consequences.
They should be shut behind high walls, clutching the terrible bundles which they have brought into the world, and when they emerge into society, if they insist on bringing these bundles with them, they should see that they are properly cloaked, muted, sealed up and, above all, dry.
A volume of Nichols, a warm cup of tea and a stack of seed catalogs will keep away any chill and keep the mental gloom from encroaching while you wait for the drifts to melt and leave you the nice black soil again.
Merry Hall is the first book in his series about his very British gardening adventures as he fixes up and generally spiffifies the manor he bought outside London.
I have to say that the very bachelor comments he makes about women and babies were rather below the belt but, as a gardener and a writer he's charming enough to be almost forgiven.
Put me in post WWII London suburbs, add a manor house needing repair, a crusty old gardener, some siamese cats, one or two gossipy village socialites, and an author with the humor of PG Wodehouse and I'm truly happy.
Charming book. Utterly adorable. Even his misogyny is charming in it's fussiness. I can forgive a cat-lover almost anything.
He's a bit of a crank, a misogynist, impetuous, opinionated, gets inordinately upset over the noises from the farm next to him, and yet writes with such passion and tenderness about flowers and garden design.
His description of "Oldfield" the gardener is so appreciative of the wisdom of the 70 year old plantsman as to be almost approaching awe.
Just read through the Wikipedia article on Nichols - apparently Nichol's man Gaskin, who is mentioned many times in the book, worked for Nichols until his death - his first name was Reginald.
I gave this 5 stars because it's uncomplicated, it's a true story, it takes place in England and it is all about gardening. I absolutely adored this book and so look forward to the next one in the series.
G. Wodehouse, Beverley Nichols (a man) takes us on the adventures of moving into his new home, Merry Hall, in the English countryside.
Along the way we meet his gardener, odd neighbors, his cats "One" and "Four," and his spot on observances of all.
The last few chapters were a bit more technical for my liking, lots about the plants and flowers in his garden--I wanted to hear more about his meetings with Miss Rose and Miss Kemp and the exasperation that ensued!
Nichols is a new author to me and he has lots of books, so I plan on seeking out more!
Within these pages are the delightful stories, witticisms, and sarcastic thoughts of the Mr. Beverley Nichols. I romanced the flowers right alongside him. “Our Rose” and Miss Emily made me giggle. The haunting of Mr. Stebbings was ever so humorous as told through Oldfield. And one must not forget his man Gaskin. The ever unfolding stream of flowers, trees, and vines was like a cascade burst of beauty. When I got to the end, the index of plant names was prepared by a fellow North Carolinian. I am in good company with the author and his readers.
Merry Hall is a marvelous reminiscence of how the author purchased and restored a British country mansion and garden just after World War II. The tone is chatty and informal, and the writing is often hilarious, particularly when Nichols is cattily pointing up the failings of the characters who move in and out of his narrative (like Our Rose, a pretentious, artsy maker of flower arrangements). At the same time, his descriptions of his garden and his plants are lovely and poetic, and I quickly became fond of him, his cats, his old gardener Oldfield, and his other friends.
A beauty of a book for gardeners. Nichols's prose is comfortable, clever, and very humorous, in a dry and mildly sarcastic way. Above all, Nichols lavishes on the reader a heartfelt enthusiasm for all things garden.  The author does have his own opinions, writing from his point of view as a British bachelor in the early/mid 20th century. Easily passed muster for me, so quite harmless.Anyone who has puttered about with soil, seeds, bulbs, and such will want to soak in and savor this telling of the re-creation of the gardens of Merry Hall.
This book had me looking up plants and flowers and trees, and grieving that I live in zone 8. I still plan to try to plant some of the plants he mentioned. It's also a humorous book. His casual biblical references reminded me of P.G. Wodehouse. I'm hoping the other two books in the trilogy are good.
"It is only to the gardener that Time is a friend, giving each year more than he steals." If you love reading about plants and nature and gardens you'll probably love this poetic musing.
So neither of us need worry." Not only did I not chuck this aside, I've now decided I have to have a copy of my own.
A lovely hardback copy that I can carry around and read outside when nothing particular needs to be done in the garden.
Arch, yes, and much of the waspish humour has a studied air, but he evidently enjoyed it; his flights of snobbery and misogyny, only partly in jest I suspect, also become irritating although not surprising- they are to be found in other writers of his period and background.The description of the garden, the scope of Nichols' ambition for it and his obsessive determination to achieve perfection, drive the book forward and are so extraordinary that I (and even BN himself sometimes) could forget stylistic mannerisms.
It's a pity that modern colour photography was not around at the time of publication to capture its glory.
The great homes of England and the rural life supported by a small household staff and many village laborers, has gone.
Reading the description of the kitchen garden, the greenhouse and orchard creates a picture of a desirable lifestyle that cannot be supported anymore.
But you feel the need to recreate SOMETHING from what you have read of his garden...even if it is a small pool of water with a figure standing by...admiring the view.
When he talks of planting hundreds of trees you can only imagine the amount of space a five acre garden represents.
Hm. Well. Let me be the 90th person to say that parts of this book have become so politically incorrect, it's downright jarring! But then, Nichols is so wry, so playful, so unabashedly pretentious, you can't really take anything he says too personally. At least, I couldn't. I was utterly charmed.In the book's introduction, he's quoted as saying that writing his garden books was "like arranging a bunch of mixed flowers, here a story, here a winding paragraph, here a purple passage, and suddenly there was a book." How do you not love that? It's delightful!
Ah, how lovely! And funny! This was a bit like reading a book by the love child of Forster and Von Arnim. Really enjoyed it. And I don't even like gardening all that much.
In any case, they both offered helpful insights to me as I try to make sense out of my own existence.After reading both books, I'm not really sure they are as inconsistent as they first appeared, anyway.
That is the nice thing about small, personal, and eccentric pleasures: they can be cultivated nearly anywhere, right in the face of unspeakable enormities.
It is one of the ‘encores’ that give to life a pattern and a sense of continuity.”Although I am shelving this book in the category of advice about how to live, I don’t always think it offers good advice.
Yet another book by Beverley Nichols that I thoroughly enjoyed. I missed the crowd from the Allways trilogy, but Gaskin, Oldfiled and Marius are entertaining and endearing new additions to Nichols’ life.
This review was written by Cavett French and posted by Lizzy Mottern.Beverley Nichols (1893-1983) wrote widely on a variety of subjects, but for the gardener and Anglophile nothing can beat his books on gardening.
Merry Hall, the first of a trilogy describing the purchase, renovation, and landscaping of a run-down Georgian manor house, is full of British humor and eccentric characters from Nichols himself to the longtime gardener who has definite opinions to the neighbors not shy with advice--so fortunate to have a house and garden "where no alterations are needed".
Fortunately, there are two more books about Merry Hall: Laughter on the Stairs and Sunlight on the Lawn.- Cavett French
I was expecting to like this, and I'm glad to say I did.
Beverley Nichols has that kind of British, slightly acidic, and moderately hysterical voice that captures both a time and a place for me: I can see him wandering his estate, cursing his neighbors but being oh-so-polite to their faces, and impulsively opting to build a water garden rather than pay bills.
There were some touches of misogyny throughout - I'm not sure he liked women very much, if at all.
This puts me a bit in mind of Miss Read, although with a slightly more grumpy air.
Shortly after World War II, Nichols buys a Georgian house in the country. But this book is not mainly about the house--it's about Nichols' work in reclaiming the five acres or so of neglected gardens that surround the place. Also, for the first time, we meet Nichols' neighbors--the highly competitive duo of Miss Emily and floral arranger "Our Rose," who Nichols can't help but like, despite his hatred of her taste. Miss Emily was very fond of the house's previous owner, and flinches at every attempt by Nichols to erase what he sees as horrible mistakes.
He loves the natural beauty of flowers and he weaves a garden path into the landscape so that it seemed to have been there forever, but he sculpts his water garden out of brick into an unforgiving rectangle, which he wants to compliment the house.
It took me quite a while to finish this but not the fault of the book. It seemed to need to be finished while looking out over my very simple flowers. And of course with the cat wandering the yard.
I'm like the worst gardener on the planet, but boy do I enjoy me some acerbic Beverly Nichols.
From my perspective, having read both books out loud to the gentleman who listens well, I would have enjoyed reading the reveiw from Bunton in June 2017, with which I resonate.
I realize I am not looking to be entertained with artistry, even when it transcends mediocrity and is elevated to an esteemed art form.
What I took away with appreciation is what others spoke of, Nichol's love of Oldfield, the cats, and the members of the garden.
I wish to make my observations available for those who might be looking for a certain quality of engagement.
I hadn't encountered Beverley Nichols until fairly recently,and then I came across him twice in quite quick succession: he turned up as a minor personality in Alexandra Harris's Romantic Moderns and I read a glowing review of Merry Hall on the Stuck in a Book blog.
The book, first published in 1951, follows Nichols' purchase and renovation of a house and overgrown garden called Merry Hall in Surrey in the years following the end of the war.
Despite my reservations I enjoyed Merry Hall sufficiently to order the next book in the trilogy, Laughter on the Stairs, which focuses on the house rather than the garden.
187)"It was five years before the first plumes of the wistaria reached my bedroom window, but hte made so brave a display that I was able to train them all roundL when one drew up the blind in the morning one saw the world through a frame of blossom, and when one turned over to sleep at night the scent was what some people would call 'overpowering'.
To be 'overpowered' by the fragrance of flowers is a most delectable form of defeat." (p.
A thoroughly Nichols' anecdotes are gentle, not fraught with drama, and he writes affectionately about the people around him so that you feel included in the community. I am only left wondering where in my yard I can grow such masses of lilies that I can cut them by the armload and still give away masses of them to my friends. I loved his kitties, too, and if I ever do become possessed by another cat, I will name it (in its chronological order) Octavius in memory of Mr. Nichols' pair, One and Four.
Beverley Nichols is a “confirmed bachelor” who has definite opinions about people, houses, and most importantly, gardens.
I really enjoyed reading this quiet book that makes me wish I was a gardener.
It also makes me wish I lived in an empty Georgian manor, but that’s not unusual.
He describes flowers lovingly, in much the same way Nigel Slater describes vegetables in Tender.
Added bonus: the plants he grows also grow in my climate, so I’ve made notes about a few plants to look into.
If you like cozy English books with descriptive language but light on plot, give it a go.
