https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/844522.American_Indian_Myths_and_Legends
Most, if not all, of the texts are paraphrases of myth related to and written down by amateurs.
We are talking about oral storytelling cultures and when encountering their myths it should feel that way.So why did I give it 5 stars?
If the mythical world of the Near East and Europe is all you are familiar with it is like entering a completely different world, which it literally is.If you want to encounter First Nations' (as we refer to them in Canada) tales and myths on their own terms there are much better alternatives.
Myths, legends, and fairy tales can carry great wisdom and provide a basis for great literature, or they can be insignificant or even pointless.
This collection of American Indian myths and legends is extensive, containing over 160 stories from tribes coast to coast, including a few living in Canada.
Most of the stories, however, carry no great weight, and do not seem very different from the no doubt bowdlerized versions many of us heard at summer camp as children.
I will give the authors three stars for effort, and because I continue to hope there's more to these stories than I saw, but on the whole I was disappointed with this book.
I have always known this to be the definitive collection of Native American myths out there.
Richard Erdoes travelled around the country to collect these stories from various tribes in order to make sure that they were not lost due to the fact they have been passed down by oral tradition and nobody had ever recorded them before.
The collection gives people great insight into these communities and because of that is really worth the time to sit down and read.
With that in mind, this is a great collection for anybody interested in Native American mythology and how it fits into the pantheon of world mythologies.
A great collection and worthwhile starting place for those interested in Myths and Legends of the Native Peoples of North America. Broken up into topics with the only limitation being the one imposed by history: many of these tales were written down post-European contact (often by Europeans) so you can see Christian influence. Still, it’s imperative to know these stories in the best forms available and this book surely is one of the best.
Very cool! There's a wide range in stories collected, and as an archaeology student, I like how they give key insights into studying the past and the varied cultures of Native Americans. They show both changes and continuities in the lives of Native American communities.
First read in community college for a history class on Early American History. Reread as a book club selection in honor of National Native American Heritage Month.
There are a lot (160) of myths and legends here from a wide variety (80) of tribes covering a wide variety of topics: Where did we come from, what causes natural disasters, where do we go when we die, who are the gods, what do they want from us.
There are some hilariously bawdy stories.
There are heartbreaking stories like the one that resembles the story of Orpheus and Eurydice.
I really liked that one.
There are fun creepy ghost stories.
And then there are stories about the end of their world -- when white men came and took everything away.
It was very entertaining and gave me insight on the different story telling styles of different tribes. I read this in my early twenties and remember a few of the stories that amused me. Like how one story told of how God made man and why were all of different shade of skin and how dog was created to be man's best friend. And I think one story was about how the Great Salt Lake in Utah was created. Very interesting and less dramatic than those of Greek Mythology.
A great introduction to Native American LegendsThis book has legends from most tribal groups and most are short. You will learn a lot about the subject and enjoy the stories at the same time.
Many of the stories collected in this work are very good. It may be the organization of the book, but I found it hard to follow the themes presented. Otherwise it is a wide view of the myths and legends of native Americans. Many of the legends have their equivalent in other cultures.
Awesome Book for anyone Who wants to learn About native American life.
Centocinquanta miti che ti fanno capire un po' meglio la cultura, le tradizioni e la mentalità di diverse tribù indiane d'America. Molto istruttivo, per chi ne è appassionato.
People familiar with traditional Native American stories might recognize some of these stories, and will definitely remember familiar faces like Iktome, Glooskap, and the ever so clever Coyote.As is the case with most myths and legends, these stories are meant to teach a lesson; therefore, many of the tales in this collection deal with more adult themes, such as sexual intercourse, rape, incest, and murder.
You may even recognize themes from your own cultural history, such as mass floods, mystical saviors, and the creation of man and beast.American Indian Myths and Legends is a great read for any story lover.
This is an excellant collection of the oral myths and legends of the Native American people.
The only way I found to truly enjoy the book was to get out of the Western Thinking mode as it applies to myths and legends.
They often are just a partial episode that could centuries into a tribes traditions.It is interesting to note the similarities of tales from peoples on opposite sides of the continent.
It seems that life itself becomes legend, as chance encounters with new animals or tribes from distant lands give rise to the creation of a story.All in all, a great book which should be in everyone's library.
I read this book years ago for a Native American literature course.
Being part Native American I have always been interested in stories from the indigenous people that were here first, and I think this is a good introductory volume for most North American to read, to realize we were not here first.
This is by no means a scholarly or anthropological volume, but I think most American and Canadian high school and college kids should at least read a few stories in this volume.
It will give you a better appreciation and perspective for Native American cultures.
It was an interesting read but I could have lived without some of the additions inside it.
A look into the long held traditions and old beliefs of another world and culture it was a stimulating read.
I did not enjoy the stories that were about the creation of man and woman because I find them less than tasteful but as this was an explanation of their daily lives I see that they were very well placed pieces even if I myself can not take interest in them.
Possibly a good book for bedtime or when you want to read only a few short stories at a time.
I'm on a serious Native American kick and this book was the fix I needed. The book is nicely organized into sections by major theme—life, death, birth, love, etc..., with a variety of myths from different tribes, giving a novice reader a good overview of Indian belief systems. Not sure if all the myths are intended for children though. Case in point; a censor might be in order for some of the surprisingly graphic ball-grabbing, frog vulva myths (Coyote and the two Frog Women), however, I have to admire the creativity involved with coming up with these stories.
This is a wonderful , entertaining, and thoroughly enjoyable compilation of Myth/Religion tales. The voice of each teller rings through clearly throughout each tale, and gives a window into another way of thought and mode of being. I have read and re-read this collection and I always get something new out of it. If you are interested in American Indian culture and folklore I cannot rate this highly enough.
I thought this a great collection of Native American folklore. Rather than dividing the tales by tribe, which most collections do, the editors divided the chapters by tale types instead. This makes the collection a wonderful general overview of Native American folklore, particularly if you are more interested in tale types rather than the tales of specific tribes, though tribe names are still listed for each tale.
Got this book second-hand at the flea market. I love the scope of stories they've collected, as well as the broad range of cultures they've managed to represent. There were a few majorly confusing typos -- like places where the narrative suddenly skipped over four paragraphs, concluded itself, then lumped all the skipped-content together at the end. But, aside from some editing issues, the collection struck me as very complete and we'll worth reading.
i loved this book. this is a great anthology about the myths and legends told by the native Americans. who is this book for. i would recommend this book for all age groups whether you are telling a bed time story to your child about how the mood tricked the son, or maybe you out camping in the woods and would like reconnect with the land. all in all i think this is a great book that is fun and easy to read and everyone should have a copy.
I hope this is really the book I read. Hmm...This was an interesting book to read especially of all the different legends and to see how they came up with them. A lot really didn't make any kind of sense to me or I felt were just too silly and I hate to say it but stupid (or maybe that's just me), also a lot just left me hanging or in ended in a rather weird spot. So I was kind of glad to be finished with this one.
I'll have to check this out of the library again. I got maybe 1/5 through this thing, but then had to return it to the library, seeing as I have a bunch of other books that need finishing. This book is valuable in light of the cultures it helps bring to life, and the stories themselves are good, but they aren't always shining examples of narrative.
We have really enjoyed this book! It made great bedtime reading (for a pre-teen) because the stories were just the right length. It was very well-written compared to other anthologies of "folk" stories that I have read. All of the stories were engaging and many taught valuable lessons. It's a great pick-it-up-and-put-it-down book!
I just started this book and the myths and legends in this book are pretty cool some are "How the sun was made" and "How the crow got its color" it show you what indian tribe this story is from. I would recomend these storys for anyone who likes myths and legends about animals and how plants and animals were made or got it color. Im only on page 12 but I have already read 5 storys
This book was very interesting with all of the stories from different tribes. It has a lot of different stories, some are even stories that they used to explain things. There are number of tribes who's stories are told in this book. There are serious stories and there are humorous stories. I would recommend it to anybody that likes Native American stuff or anybody that likes short stories.
One of the better collections of folk tales. Red indian stories have an earthy, mundane style often with a vein of wry humour. There weren't many really strong stories here but the perspective was very refreshing compared to the usual fairy tales and things.I'd recommend it to fans of folklore but the quality of storytelling is probably not high enough for the average reader.
This book was very educational in regards to Native American Culture and Legends. I was well written, however it was a little dry to a reader who already knew some of the legends. I would recommend this book to someone who wanted to know about Native American History and Culture and had never been exposed to the culture before.
This is an absolutely wonderful collection of folklore. It is respectful to the cultures that spawned the stories, as it sources the people who told the stories, the time period in which it was told, and in what area. It has a wide array of stories as well, ranging from silly to serious to the long and the short sweet and simple. Highly recommend.
This was a wonderful collection of short myths and legends, retold from oral tradition, and entirely enjoyable to read. I must admit, I kept this for far too long - enjoying a tale or two before bedtime each night, or while in the bath, or on the bus. I'm extremely grateful to have had the chance to read it
