https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49991.The_Barbary_Coast
This book is fantastic. Brilliantly entertaining stories, and most of them close to agreed upon historical consensus. Lurid details of the "Underbelly" of the Barbary Coast. I couldn't get enough of it, and this book launched me into an obsession with the history of San Francisco. At least a particular side of SF. Great to read in tandem with "You Can't Win", by Jack Black ...
This book was published in 1933, not all that long after the Barbary Coast was shut down and modern San Francisco took its shape.
I enjoyed the sense of the time that I got, going back to 1848 and as far forward as the 1920s.
At least a half of the book discusses prostitution, which seems out of proportion somehow.
Otherwise, how the rest of the city was affected by the Barbary Coast wasn't mentioned.
I've only just begun researching the area and the time period, so perhaps some of my criticisms are because the information I wanted wasn't important to this author.
The New York State Environment hall in the American Museum of Natural History is one of my most beloved places.
There is, obviously, the New York State Environment portion but a step back also shows how they made museum exhibits when they made that one.
So recent to some of the events that the author declined to name names (and consequently seemed a bit of an unreliable narrator).
It was fascinating to see names that, until now, I only saw on street signs and to learn a bit about who they were.
Beh. This is one of those books I'll pick up and put down for years to come when I'm bored or in the can or something. Someday I might finish it, or not. I don't really care either way.This isn't to say it's not interesting. It is. But it's hard to tell what is true and what is conjecture. Some interesting history in here though. SF!
SF is still fucked up. But now everyone has ironic haircuts and iphones.
"Informal history" means that legend is mixed in with fact. Most legends are based on fact anyway....
You will never find a more wretched hive of scum and villainy.
What an incredible look at San Francisco history!From the earliest days of the California Gold Rush in 1848 until the final doors were forced shut in 1921, the Barbary Coast district of San Francisco was home to extreme crime and debauchery.
Many of the city's most memorable historical figures profited from the Barbary Coast.
Between it, Chinatown, and the Upper Tenderloin district, San Francisco has perhaps the most colorful history of any U.S. city.This account of that infamous district, first published in 1933, is an entertaining and sometimes shocking read."The Barbary Coast" is one of the books I've read as research for the next book in my steampunk zombie western series, which will take place in San Francisco in late 1876 and will involve this district and many of its more dangerous inhabitants from that time.
This book took a long time for me to read. Not because the story was not interesting but the writing rambled somewhat. This book was an interesting read; history I had not heard or read about. And, having been born and raised in San Francisco, I was extremely interested in reading about San Francisco's early history. I did not realize that the Barbary Coast existed for so long. I would recommend this book as an addition to other history written about San Francisco.
I did enjoy finding out some history I did not know about my home town of 22 years but this book was often painful to read. Granted it was written in the early 1930s but it was so full of racism and sexism - ouch.
So. Much. Prostitution. An interesting history, but recounting the history of every single bar and brothel in the city got old.
Wow! When I'm in San Francisco in a few weeks, I'd like to check out some of the addresses where the historical underground of this magnificent city began! Recommended to me by Wes Egan...
It was written in 1933 so you have to keep that in mind, but I appreciated the non-fiction account of life in early San Francisco. It added much to a historical fiction story I just finished.
Its an older book. But still fascinating. I think the last third or so was repetitive and didn't really carry to story along as well as the first  did. But still worth the time.
Its an older book. But still fascinating. I think the last third or so was repetitive and didn't really carry to story along as well as the first ⅔ did. But still worth the time.
Following up on "The Gangs of New York: An Informal History of the Underworld," which Asbury had written five years earlier (still to come were "French Quarter: An Informal History of the New Orleans Underworld" (1936) and "Gem of the Prairie: An Informal History of the Chicago Underworld" (1940)), it traces the bawdier side of life in the City by the Bay from its roots when "the world rushed in" in 1849; around the early '50's a flood of ruffianly veterans of the frontier towns of Australia, joined by escaped convicts and ticket-of-leave men from New South Wales and Van Diemen’s Land, began to arrive, and the more enterprising spirits among them took over the flimsy frame and brick building of the old Chilean neighborhood and began opening lodging houses, dance halls, groggeries, and taverns there.
More than likely it had been one of the hundreds of houses of prostitution owned by one of the numerous San Francisco Madams.
It also described the life, ill treatment, and political control of the pimps and prostitutes in the Barbary Coast area, and the various "entertainment" to be found west of Union Square and in the infamous alley, humorously now known as the trendy, upscale "Maiden Lane." I would highly recommend this book to anyone that is curious about the history of North Beach, Chinatown, Telegraph Hill and the Tenderloin as the Barbary Coast encompassed all of these areas at one time.
In this way it falls into the trap of many biographies, being bound to the entire life span it fails to create any sort of dramatic, narrative, or thematic arc other than "things started, then ended."Still, each chapter is filled with fascinating (and hyperbolic) anecdotes from every era, each with their own beginning, middle, and end to sate most adventure-hungry readers.
The early years are the most fascinating, as Asbury's prose does a great job of projecting the reading into a world that's hard for modern readers to imagine.
At times the book almost reads like a fantasy novel, following larger than life characters in their escapades around town.
When you read page after page of incredibly disgusting violence (95% directly towards women) and that violence is absolutely true and a part of history....and took place 5 minutes from your house...it's a little discouraging.
We took California from the native Mexican people in the most rough-handed, brutal, shady way possible, yet the very first houses of prostitution set up in SF were entirely populated by Chileno women.
And it pains me to say that because I am of Irish origin, but it is true.A good read for California historians, but a rough one.
Lots of people seem to think that the world gone mad, and we need to get back to the good old days.
and we need to get back to the good old days.
Asbury gives a quick history of the gold rush days in San Francisco -- mainly the ugly crazy bits -- and the original redlight district that thrived in its own distorted way for 60 years.
Strange to read a history book and want more detail.
Asbury wrote the book in 1933, less than 20 years after the Barbary Coast dancehalls were shut down.
The Barbary Coast by Herbert Asbury is filled with scandalous salacious details - a hedonistic city falling off the edge of civilization- with money to burn.
With a less than flattering early history- social, economic and racial tensions between the Chinese, Italian and Irish - the very working class immigrants responsible for California infrastructure; transforming it into the economic powerhouse it is today.
Asbury finds his voice as a crime historian in Barbary Coast along with other titles; Gangs of New York, Gangs of Chicago and French Quarter.
This is a great book taking you deeper into the colorful history of an iconic city.
From crooked politicians to lynch mobs, shanghaid sailors, evil dive managers, hooligan gangs, opium dens, pimps and prostitutes galore....there is not a vice unknown to San Francisco at one time or another in her history.
Not only did they orchestrate highly organized armed militias to meet their goals, but they arranged lengthy trials for the criminals they sought and managed to dispense greater justice with the power of the mob than the ineffectual court system at the time, and managed to do it all without anarchy.
So much interesting history in this book!
This book is overflowing with ripping yarns and anecdotal history of the debaucheries and seedy underbelly of gold rush-era San Francisco, even if as some readers have pointed out, the narrative style (originally published in 1933) can feel a bit disjointed.
Reading some of these stories and imagining what life was like in this vibrant and frequently violent time period makes you really appreciate the advances in public health, safety, and law enforcement that have been made!
Great reading and highly recommended for anyone living in or visiting San Francisco.
There's the absolutely strict history that includes only hard facts but often misses the sense of what a time was like, and there's the truth that paints a picture of a time and place, even if the hard facts are supplemented by stories and legends.
If the stories are sometimes sensationalized and not backed by source citations, it doesn't really matter.
The book is meant to create a picture of the Barbary Coast area through colorful tales.This was a fun book, exuberantly written, about what used to go on in streets I know fairly well.
Having failed to convince Brigham Young to move the LDS church to San Francisco, "[h]e declined to recognize the authority of Brigham Young, although he continued for several years to collect tithes regularly from members of his flock...
[n]one of this money was ever remitted to the Church at Salt Lake City, and when Brigham Young made formal demand for "the Lord's share,"...
to collect the money by force."Brannan, who also founded the first newspaper in San Francisco, was later tried by the first jury empaneled in the state of California, for misappropriation of funds collected from LDS members (acquitted).
My friend Stacy lent me this book for a little while and I'm really glad I read it, to the point where if I see a very cheap copy of it somewhere I may have to buy it.
It's basically a history of San Francisco from 1849 to 1920 or so (with the focus being heavy around the 1850-1880 era).
There are a lot of little stories between some real characters like the Sydney Ducks and the orign of the word "hoodlum" but the book mainly serves as a history book.
A must if you live in San Francisco.
I used this book purely for research so I skipped around and wasn't looking for something to draw me in.
I offer that proviso because I had trouble with the book.
I also question the accuracy of some of the information based on other research.
He had fantastic material - people and events almost leap off the pages without his help – and yet, he often gets in their way.
This problem is exacerbated by the rambling way in which Ashbury lets the various sections unfold.
I can't help feeling that the material would have been even more remarkable in more capable hands.
Just as, in other books, Asbury describes the crime histories of New Orleans, Chicago, and New York (Martin Scorsese's 2002 film Gangs of New York is loosely based on one of Asbury's books), in The Barbary Coast he gleefully sets forth every sordid detail he can find regarding the history of crime in San Francisco before the 1906 earthquake.
Among the most appalling details in the book: the cruelty that the Chinese community in San Francisco faced, virtually from the moment of their arrival in the City by the Bay. It is also disheartening, though not surprising, to read of how often city officials colluded in S.F. vice.
As he does in Gangs of New York, Asbury's urban folklore (gathered in the early 20th century about the mid-to-late 19th) recollects the nightmare fantasy world of early San Francisco when naked greed ran riot in the city.
Halfway between a history text and an exploitation flick, a book like this definitely puts the present in perspective by shattering any romantic notion of frontier life, and captures the anything-goes spirit of early San Francisco and the chaotic development of a city that grew out of warring factions struggling for resources.
There are dizzying highs and gutter lows, but for the most part it reads like a chronicle.
It's not the juiciest of reads, but after a bit you get used to the pace and it pays off.
It might be that this is the first book I've had the time to elect to read in what feels like forever, it might be that I got to read it while visiting SF for the week, but I really enjoyed this.
It's disgusting at times, humorous at others, and almost always entertaining.
I'm not a fast reader, so it did take me some time to finish this book.
Some parts were a bit harder to slog through, but overall I quite enjoyed it.
There were lots of very interesting characters and stories.
Some of the stories did sound a little far-fetched though.
It sounds like it was quite a harsh and unsavory place to live.Anyway, this was the first time I've read a non-fiction crime history book, and although I don't think I'd read this one again, some others in the same genre might be worth a try.
