https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42631.Having_a_Mary_Heart_in_a_Martha_World
Like Martha, you love Jesus and really want to serve him...yet you struggle with weariness, resentment, and feelings of inadequacy.Then comes Jesus, right into the midst of your busy Mary/Martha life-and he extends the same invitation he issued long ago to the two sisters of Bethany.
With her fresh approach to the familiar Bible story and its creative, practical strategies, Joanna shows how all of us-Marys and Marthas alike-can draw closer to our Lord, deepening our devotion, strengthening our service, and doing both with less stress and greater joy.My Review - I loved this book even if it did take me FOREVER to read it.
Any woman who has ever been overwhelmed by the responsibilities in her life needs to read this book.
But it's a Jesus book that's full of insight into why we need to stop doing doing doing (as Martha did) and start stopping and listening as Mary did.Oh, and the "Martha World" doesn't refer to Martha Stewart -- although the allusion works quite well.
Martha gets all upset, whining to Jesus about how her little sister isn't helping.
And Jesus tells Martha, "Martha, Martha,you are worried and upset about many things, [42] but only one thing is needed.
A wonderful book for any Christian Woman to read is Having a Mary Heart in a Martha World by Joanna Weaver.
While both roles are important, the purpose of the book is to find balance between your inner Martha and inner Mary.Having a Mary Heart in a Martha World by Joanna Weaver was written more than ten years ago, yet the content is applicable today.
In the chapters of this beautiful book, you’ll learn to let go of your inner-Martha and sit in the Living Room with Jesus, or let go of your inner-Mary and find yourself in the Kitchen of worship.
This was such a great book! I learned a lot and took a lot of notes and wrote down many quotes. :) I'm not going to give a thorough review as I'm going to be having some blog posts on what I learned, but it was very good! I did not agree with everything she said, but there were a lot of really good and challenging truths!! A wonderful book to help you balance "work and worship"!
This book really hit home with me. I am a Mary type, while my sister is a Martha. It really made me see that both types are important but that you need to be aware of the differences. It tells you both types are a way to serve God. I really enjoyed reading this book.
I feel a little guilty about not liking this book very much.
I know so many Christian women who found it quite nice, and I really wanted to love it and feel changed by it in some way...
I don't think it's wrong to reflect, I just think that if you need a change in your life, action is better than that touchy-feely journaling type of thing.Secondly, Weaver's writing is thin, repetitive and simplistic.
I'm sure Weaver reaches many women of faith by speaking at a folksy, friendly level, but, perhaps due to my Catholic background and my tendency to read Papal Encyclicals and such, I felt a little disappointed.It isn't all bad, though.
In fact, it may be less.I find it interesting that when Jesus corrected Martha, he didn’t say, “Why can’t you be more like your sister, Mary?” He knew Martha would never be Mary, and Mary would never be Martha.We live in constant tension between the urgent and the important.It is impossible to be in the presence of Jesus and not be changed.Busyness, by itself, breeds distraction.Martha opened her home to Jesus, but that doesn’t automatically mean she opened her heart.
This was a wonderful bible study that a group of women just finished at my church. We used the DVD that our leader had also. I am so glad that this was our choice for our spring study.
I really tried to take my time reading this book because I wanted to reflect on the author's observations.
She really struggled with it and you really understand her sense of wanting to be changed by what she is learning and sharing in this book.
But Joanna's emphasis was on balance- how to worship well and serve well, how to not feel guilty when you are spending too much time on one extreme, how to shift back and forth well, and finally, how to let the Lord merge the two areas together into an undivided heart of worship and service.
Just as Mary and Martha each grew and transformed as Christ changed their hearts, there is also great hope we can do the same.
In Having a Mary Heart in a Martha World, Joanna Weavers struggles with her readers to find balance in life.
She describes Martha as giving Kitchen service and Mary as giving Living Room worship to the Lord and talks about the strengths of both.
There are seasons in life where you are called to primarily serve and there needs to be respites of worship; likewise there are seasons where one is called to primarily worship and it must include some service.
2. By surrendering our days to God, and allowing Him to direct what we do, we can serve with a worshipful heart.
I think Having a Mary Heart in a Martha World Joanna Weaver would make an excellent Bible study.
Throughout Having a Mary Heart in a Martha World, Joanna draws from resources that she has found helpful, including Navigators 2:7 material.
I highly recommend Having a Mary Heart in a Martha World to anyone who is feeling overwhelmed with all they have to do or who is looking for a Bible Study that is practical and will make a difference in your life.
Read for a women's Bible study group. Quite pertinent in this world of easy distraction.
There are things to be gotten out of this book, but it's definitely too Protestant for me to feel comfortable with it entirely.
Again, I didn't finish the book.----one-star below, October 1, 2007Not really something I would choose to read.
Vassi asked whether anyone had read it, so I got it from the library to review for her.
I've struggled with this story, struggled with the reality of trying to live a spiritual life, at a slow and savoring pace, and still getting done all the "stuff" that perpetually needs doing.Weaver does an exceptional job of taking meaning from this story and applying it to real life, because she has struggled with the exact same things I have.
Weaver likens maintaining proper balance between work and worship as being something like her cousin Chuckie, standing atop the fulcrum of a playground seesaw.
The chapters in this book on worry and its disruption of Christian life are probably worth several hundred dollars of psychotherapy.
I first thought " how could there be a whole book on this topic??", but the author provides so much more...like how important it is to have a daily relationship with the Lord.
I love how she talks about not giving God what you want you think He wants you to give, but rather being like Mary, She came to Jesus with everything she had(a vessel of fragrance) and poured it on His feet.
That's what God wants from us too, just to surrender everything to Him!
Awesome book, I'm STILL talking about it.
I read this awhile ago, own it, and will re-read it again. It's a very powerful book that emphasizes the importance of prayer in your life. Mary was busy but Mary was at Jesus feet. So many times we get caught up being "busy" that we forget to take time for God and listening for Him, even when we are busy for Him. This one has been lent out and I plan to re-read it again soon.
The premise and scripture that supports taking time for God is right-on, but the style of writing and journaling is not for me. And I still don't understand how things get done if we don't take the time to do them.
I think this book was written for me. It was such a great biblical based reminder of how we should live in this world. You need to read this book if you have a busy life.
This book was fantastic, I wish I could have taken time to read it through a second time and do the study portion at the end. I learned so much about keeping the right focus and balance in my life.
I am loving this book, I'm reading and studying a chapter a day. Great bible study for women. Very insightful and relevant. This will be a book I will refer back to. Striving for that Mary heart!
good book, wonderful message especially for those of us who feel pulled in a million different directions and wonder why we're having trouble hearing God's voice.
I really enjoyed Joanna Weaver's take on Mary and Martha.
Are we trying to prove our love for God through actions, or are we taking the time to grow intimacy between us?
Our actions are an important part of our faith, and work is necessary, but so is the quiet time that we should be taking to worship God and grow closer to Him.I especially enjoyed the audiobook version of this, and loved listening to it on my drives to work, school, etc.
It makes intimacy with God, as well as achieving a life of faith-centered action, seem attainable and-most importantly-desirable.
It's an easy-to-read-and-comprehend book and the way the author dissect a part of the passage of Luke 10 is amazing!
The relevations that the author brings about was highly applicable to the real world, as she refer to many important elements essential to our Christian life: Love, Transformation, Fear, Worry, Serving the House, Problems of life, but most vital of all, our Relationship with God himself!Personally, despite being a long time Christian, this book rechallenged my way of living the Christianity journey.
It enlightened me with additional lessons & loads of 'punches-in-the-spirit' (not face lol) to refocus our life not unto the earthly things, but to only one thing, Christ the Lord.Hope this book can bless you the way it blesses me!
How to get close to God even though you lead a busy life.I liked this:The Lord is my pace setter… I 
This book is so helpful in finding the balance between service and worship, between personal intimacy with God and working with excellence.
As with any other book outside of scripture, it must be read with discernment and thoughtfulness, but overall it is very well-written, very convicting, and very encouraging.
I would especially recommend this book to anyone who feels like they tend to get caught up so much in “doing” and serving that they neglect their time with God — this is really where I was at when I was reading this book and it has been such a gift to read this and see myself starting to find that balance.
My husband and I read this together. It really put a lot of things together for me. Distraction. Discouragement. Doubt. All real forces in my life right now that lead me away from Living Room Intimacy. But - A product requires a process. The same is true of our Christian walk. Becoming like Jesus requires a process as well... it's a journey, not a destination... if we want to be like Jesus, we won't be able to escape the refining process.This is reassuring. That maybe I'm meant to be at this place in my life at this particular moment.
I got half way through this book and never got to finish it, but i must say it is a good read. The writer has a realistic approach to everyday ways in which we can all relate to the Martha character. There are parts when talking about biblical scripture where i felt she added to the interpretation or comparison to biblical texts then i cared for. Its a book i would read again and actually finish next time!
Thoughtful and well written book about cultivating balance between Christian spirituality and Christian works. Spoiler alert: they are both important and need to be tied together. I was given this book as a gift over 15 years ago where it has sat on my shelf. glad I finally read it when it was assigned for a study.
“And Jesus’ words to Martha are the words he wants to speak to your heart and mine: “You are worried and upset about many things, but only one thing is needed.” The “one thing” is not found in doing more. It’s found by sitting at his feet.” ― Joanna Weaver, Having a Mary Heart in a Martha World: Finding Intimacy With God in the Busyness of Life
Joanna's thoughts about the "Three Deadly Ds of Destruction" AKA: Doubt, Discouragement, and Distraction were eye opening! She explained how as women we all can struggle with overthinking and comparing our value and contributions. This was a must read from an abuse survivors perspective; I learned better self-dialogue and that our attitudes as servants does matter.
