https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/649361.Farewell_to_Manzanar
The scene where Jeanne's mother throws her china dishes onto the floor - one by one - in front of a salesman who wants to buy them for an offensively low price, just because he knows she has no choice -is one of the best moments of triumph of the human spirit over injustice that I have ever read. I will never forget it.
Reviewed by Taylor Rector for TeensReadToo.comFAREWELL TO MANZANAR is the chilling autobiography of a Japanese-American girl who survived the interment camps during World War II.
When I began reading this book I had no idea what the "internment" camps were.
At first I didn't like the book very much.
But as I kept reading I began to like it.
I think all Americans should read this book so that they know that this happened.
It is not something that is often talked about, but it should be, so that every American citizen knows about this part that the government played in World War II.

It's strength is that it tells a particular and true tale of the Japanese Internment that is not just a story that happens during the time period, but a personal experience and the connections to events before and after the years in Manzanar.
I think that the overall piece would have been much stronger had it settled on one particular idea such as dissolving family conditions or dealing with racial shame.
Instead, the book does what it attempted to do, help an adult deal with childhood memories while providing a historical document for family members.
I would likely recommend other books on the Japanese Internment to children instead of this one.
Also, the work was one of the first published narratives documenting the internment experience, and the author's intended audience, as she explains in the afterword, was not specifically for young readers (although, of course, she welcomes its popularity in classroom curriculum).
I don't like the historical tendency in publishing to attach a "young reader" label to a work, simply because the narrator is a young person.
Young readers required to read this for a class are likely to lose interest at this point, and the adult readers who might find this narrative rewarding might never discover it as material appropriate for their demographic.
Jeanne Wakatsuki Houston has given the reading world a rare and beneficial gift with her historically relevant, emotively rich memoir - Farewell to Manzanar: A True Story of Japanese American Experience During and After the World War II Internment.
Jeanne's recounting of her coming-of-age experiences during WWII as an ostracized Japanese-American citizen, interred with her family at Camp Manzanar, is one of the most perfectly balanced, down-to-earth memoirs I've ever read dealing with sensational circumstances.
But just because Jeanne's memoir focuses on her coming-of-age war experience, that, in and of itself, doesn't make it a juvenile exclusive book.
I was incensed at the government for the first time in my life after reading this at age 11. That was the first time I looked at the myths of our country critically. I think it's sad that they only way children learn about the Japanese internment situation is through reading outside of school.
Jeanne Wakatsuki Houston really breathes life into history with this book which tells the real-life story of her internment in a relocation camp during World War 2.
Jeanne and thousands of other Japanese-Americans, almost all who had been born in the USA and who mostly had never even been to Japan were essentially rounded up like the Nazis rounded up the Jews, based on being of Japanese heritage.
This book reads like a conversation between friends.
The author's memoirs of her coming of age years, centered around time spent with her family in a WWII Internment Camp. I read this along with my daughter's 8th grade English class and learned a lot about this regrettable period of American history. The book is written to be accessible for a YA audience while also remaining interesting to adult readers.
Although I've read a lot of stories written by Holocaust survivors, this was the first book that I have read about the Japanese-American internment camps. This is a part of American history that many, many Americans seem to know nothing about.
That book gave me all the FEELS and I gave it 4 stars.
I really enjoyed this book, but I could not give it 4 stars because it did not provoke my emotions like the previous book.
However, this book did give a lot of facts from history.
I liked the timeline given at the front of the book.
I also liked the fact the author explained a lot of the laws surrounding the internment camps.
This story also goes into how Jeanne's life was affected after leaving the camp which was very interesting.I STILL HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS BOOK.
A good look at a part of American history that many Americans may not know about, the internment camps during World War II that housed Japanese Americans for about three years. This story tells about life in one of the camps, Manzanar, and how it affected the author and her family. It also tells about the after effects that staying at the camp had on the author long after she left. Highly recommend 👍
I saw this movie way back in junior high, but I couldn't remember having read the book.A straightforward, easy to read, first-person account of something that never should have happened here in America. The author was only seven years old at the time her family went into the camp. It's interesting to read her views of the situation as a child, then later in the book to see her perspective looking back, when she realizes the long-term effects of that early experience.
An incredible book that taught me a lot about the Manzanar internment camp, which I wasn't very familiar with. It explores the effect of this on Jeanne and her family during this time, and also after. It's quick, easy to follow and well worth the read.
It would have been good, but we read Night right before we read it. Night makes Farewell to Manzanar look like summer camp.
My parents both encouraged me to read it.
My great uncle however did not and was with his family put into a Japanese internment camp.
Brothers divided on the idea of the war and the suspicion that my family had to endure simply for the fact that their parents were from Japan.
It is something that is not exactly spoken about in my family, I only have little bits and pieces to go off of but this book opened my eyes to what life might of been like for my great uncle and his family.
"I smiled and sat down, suddenly aware of what being of Japanese ancestry was going to be like. I wouldn't be faced with physical attack, or with overt shows of hatred. Rather, I would be seen as someone foreign, or as someone other than American, or perhaps not be seen at all."I knew quite a bit about the internment of Japanese Americans during WWII going into this book, but this was a really important and honest look into what everyday life was like for the internees. I would definitely encourage more people to read this!
Manzanar is well written and accessible to all readers.
I'm glad to see this one in young readers' hands because history will live on a loop if we don't look closely at the road behind us.
Sadly, there is much to compare to today's headlines, which makes Manzanar a book that should remain on school lists (recommended OR required).My youngest son is charged with the reading of this now classic book; his annotations will then be turned into a graphic organizer of character traits and proofs dutifully turned in on the first day of his seventh grade year next month.
I read it ahead of him, ("Don't highlight it, Mama.
So you got Jeanne, a very young girl who is thrown into a world full of confusion, racism, and prejudice, all of which she does not understand right away.
This was evident few times throughout the book, but mostly during the time when Jeanne mentioned she wanted to join a Catholic church, as well as when she mentioned she wanted to be a sort of a prom queen at her school, an honor unheard off during this time among the Oriental people.
Besides her family, you got Jeanne, a naive little girl who does not seem to fit anywhere due to her background.
Farewell to Manzanar tells the story of the Wakatsuki family before, during, and after their forced internment at Manzanar located in Owens Valley at the foot of the Sierra mountains in California.
The story is narrated by Jeanne, the youngest Wakatsuki member who at age 7 was moved along with her family from their life in San Pedro California where her father, Ko, was a successful fisherman.
Ko was arrested as a collaborator and sent to a camp in North Dakota while the rest of the family was sent to Manzanar.
Jeanne tells how her life really began at Manzanar which left her self-conscious about her race and identity for the rest of her life.
It is the autobiography of the author’s time spent in a Japanese Interment Camp during the Second World War, when she was seven years old, and follows her life after her family was released.One of the first things that I noticed about the book was the tone.
It somehow made the book feel even more intimate and distinct with each new turn of the page.Another example of what makes the memoir so informal is that when the author is talking about a specific memory, or event in her past, she will occasionally digress to offer more context via anecdotes or brief morsels of familial history.
It's been about six years since I read this, but I remember it fondly.The internment camps of the WWII era tend to get overshadowed in the study of history, which I find to be disgraceful.
Yes, the Holocaust and the atomic bomb are vital events in the history of the world, and I'm not suggesting that we ignore them by any means.
But the internment camps need to be talked about: if they're glossed over or ignored, Americans run the risk of forgetting that our country was at war with two other nations but only shut immigrants from one up in camps...
if that's not racial profiling, I don't know how you'd define it.
Great memoir that tells the story of Japanese internment through the eyes of a girl who was 7 when she arrived there. Great for history buffs and even more so for history teachers. The author describes her experiences at the camp in vivid detail and - even more powerfully - explains the impact of those experiences on her after she left the camp. Teachers of adolescents can do amazing things with passages from the book that relate to identity and self-image. Good, quick read that can be read on many different levels!
This is the heart warming story of Jeanne Wakatsuki Houston and her family's relocation to the camp Manzanar. It was a touching book that made me shed many a tear for the tragedy that we call World War Two. Farewell to Manzanar lets you feel the obstacles that plagued the Japanese Americans living on the West Coast. It starts with one of the only tastes of normal life Jeanne had before Manzanar and even this was not quite normal. All in all I'd rate this 4 out of 5.
This is the tragic story about how the US government treated its own citizens in WWII. Thousands of Japanese American people, many of whom were born in this country, were placed in internment camps to "protect" the American people. Is this hindsight or were people actually deluded into believing the Japanese Americans were a threat? Judge for your own opinion on this controversial topic.
A first person account of a Japanese Interment Camp during the WW2 epoch. I highly recommend.
3.5/5 You cannot deport 110,000 people unless you have stopped seeing individuals. I'm not sure when I first learned about the Japanese internment camps in the US, but it was long enough ago that it seems rather odd that it took me this long to read an official book on the matter. Admittedly, Obasan crossed my path a while back, but there's a sharp difference between creative invocations of trauma in lands where names that, while physically nearer than Japan, are still foreign to me, and straigh
Wakatsuki-Houston's memoir is a lesson in the mundanity of genocide, as there was nothing in place to guarantee that any of the interned would make it out of the camp alive.
Pacifists are sustained only when the eye of the media has invested various states with the incentive to protect certain groups free of charge, and tell me, how long will that last in a world where water is threatened with privatization and child labor is praised in clickbait articles?If only Wakatsuki Houston's was simply a memoir.
I do remember reading a novel that takes place in a Japanese internment camp when I was in elementary school.
It was written through the perspective of a young Japanese boy, if you're interested in that novel, it was called The Journal of Ben Uchida: Citizen 13559 Mirror Lake Internment Camp, which came from a spin-off series of Dear America.
United States case multiple times throughout the school years, but I never knew that the man went under the knife to change the shape of his eyes and changed his name to an English one to escape the persecution or how Japanese Americans didn't become naturalized American citizens until 1952.
Shame that I'm a member of the species that snatched these innocent people out of their homes and daily lives, shattered some of their families permanently, and forced them behind fences at the ass end of nowhere.
I wept a few times, especially at the relationship between the narrator's parents, but ultimately, when I closed the book I was overcome with the same admiration I feel for the way the Japanese have risen to the most recent tragedies on their surprisingly small island.I edited an e-book book of stories SHAKEN: Stories for Japan to raise money for Japanese disaster relief, and I was brought to this book by Wendy Hornsby's masterful contribution to SHAKEN, "The Emperor's Truck," about a young woman helping her family regain their feet after release from Manzanar.
A tough book to read, and a great read-aloud history lesson for the ELL high school classroom.
