https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/682596.Moominsummer_Madness
When life gives you lemons, find an abandoned floating theater and make your absurdist masterpiece.
This is only the second books of hers I've read, the other being The Summer Book.
I was impressed then by the subtlety of her writing and her nuanced depiction of complex, contradictory human beings, but I wasn't entirely surprised -- it was an adult book, written about people Jansson knew well personally.
I was not expecting a short children's book about cute made up creatures to display the same level of insights into human nature and behavior.
It's not heavy-handed; if you're a small child mostly interested in the fun adventures of Moomins you can totally read it just for that.
Take all the self help manuals and holy books in the world, chuck them off a cliff, and replace them with this. The Moomins hold the key to a happy life. Volcanos? Great floods? Natural devastation? Separated families? To the Groke with them! Let's all light a lamp and have some marmalade with our tea!
Underbart att höra Tove Jansson själv läsa!
"Wróci słońce - myślał Muminek, podniecony. - Koniec z ciemnościami, koniec z samotnością. Będzie można usiąść sobie na werandzie i pogrzać plecy... ."Moim zdaniem najsłabsza z dotychczas przeczytanych przeze mnie książek z tej serii. Wiadomo jednak, Muminki to Muminki.
Mieleen muistui selkeästi muumijakso, jonka olen nähnyt lapsena.Pidin paljon, muumikirjat selvästi osaavat lumota iästä riippumatta.
Passande omläsning en midsommar när regnet vräker ner, blott en vecka efter besöket i Muminmuseet i Tammerfors. Den här var min favorit bland muminböckerna när jag var barn, och är det fortfarande (jämsides med Det osynliga barnet). Har läst om den många gånger och blir fortfarande lika charmerad: av språket, av berättelsen, av humorn och av människokännedomen.
Vaarallinen juhannus on oma henkilökohtainen suosikkini Tove Janssonin muumikirjojen joukosta. Tämä kirja ja tarina on ollut yksi suurimpia suosikkejani niin kauan kuin jaksan muistaa.Tarinassa on jännitystä ja erilaisia tapahtumia juuri oikealla tavalla: on tuhotulvaa, kodin menettämistä, jännittävä uusi talo asuttavaksi, pelottava kummitus, etc. Voiko kirjalta enempää toivoa? Lisäksi muumeille tyypilliseen tapaan kirjassa kuvaillaan ihanan yksityiskohtaisesti erilaisia ihmistyyppejä, jos siis malttaa katsoa tekstiä hieman syvemmälle. Muumien äärellä voi päästä syvällekin ihmismielen ja -luonnon kummallisuuksiin, mikäli sinne haluaa tosissaan uppoutua. Vielä monien lukukertojen jälkeen jaksan hämmästyä, kuinka löydän uusista (tai no, vanhoista ja tutuista) hahmoista samankaltaisuuksia tämän hetkiseen itseeni !
I've liked all Moomin books this far, but somehow this one appealed to me even more than usual.
The writing style and the atmosphere of the story are exactly as magical as they should be on a Midsummer night, and despite the rather absurd and adventurous happenings the book left me with a very peaceful mood.
There's almost something Shakespearean in this, even though there are no fairies.
The play within the story is hilarious, and the whole theatre thing just made me laugh so much.
I also fangirl Snufkin and this book shows some sides of his personality very well.
Ei ehkä lempimuumikirjani, mutta tykkäsin kuitenkin.
K Muminovcom som sa prvý raz dostala až teraz pod vplyvom Goodreadsu a sú skvelí!
kapitolke O tom, ako sa treba ponárať za raňajkami a slzy od smiechu som prskala v 10.
kapitolke O [divadelnej] generálke.Nie je samozrejme nič lepšie, ako rozčítať sériu 5.
dielom, ale vôbec mi to neprekážalo, keďže ide o samostatný príbeh a postavičky boli opísané i nakreslené akurátne a svojstojne.Chaos v názvoch:- V češtine sa tento (piaty) diel volá Bláznivé léto, čo korešponduje s pôvodným švédskym názvom i anglickým prekladom.- Slovo povodeň sa ale vyskytuje v prvom dieli (švédčina i angličtina), ktorý po slovensky asi zatiaľ ani nevyšiel, len v češtine pod názvom Cesta za tatínkem.
These books are so cute I love to read them in between other books!
Považte - výbuch sopky, zaplavené Muminí údolí, rodina žije v plovoucím divadle přineseném povodní a Muminek ve vězení!
I ty největší protivy pozve ke stolu a pohostí je tím, co zrovna má.Ačkoliv výše zmíněné nepřízně osudu uvrhnou celé Muminí údolí do chaosu, není to truchlivý příběh, ba naopak - je to snad nejsrandovnější Muminí kniha, která si nezadá s bláznivýma francouzskýma komediema.Je legrační číst o tom, jak Muminí rodina postupně poznává, že nežije (či spíše nepluje) v opuštěném domě, ale divadle, k čemu slouží opona, propriety, kostýmy a nápovědní budka.
A jak se tatínek rozhodne napsat divadelní hru a prožívá tvůrčí muka hodná umělce.Vážnější tón získává příběh se Sňupálkem.
Ack, I love it! *huggles book* Snufkin is my FAVORITE EVER! <3 He's so awesome and just the best! And what he did about the signs . . . and his twenty-four little woodies -- GAAHH SO CUUUUTE!!! <3 I about died from the adorableness and awesomeness of this. Also, I love Little My. She's hilarious. XD All in all, great little book! <3
นารักและสนุกดีอานไดเพลินๆ โดยทีไมรูสึกเบือหรือเสียดายเวลาแตถาไมไดอาน ชีวิตกไมไดรูสึกวาขาดอะไรไปนะแตถายอนวัยกลับไปเมือตอนสิบขวบตนๆเราวาเรานาจะตองหลงรักมูมินแนๆมันมีเสนหสำหรับเดกๆตืนเตนเลกนอย แตยังฟีลกูดไมมีอะไรนาหวาดเสียว รุนแรงตัวละครนารัก เลาเรืองนาฉงานฉงาย ชวนติดตาม
น่ารักและสนุกดีอ่านได้เพลินๆ โดยที่ไม่รู้สึกเบื่อหรือเสียดายเวลาแต่ถ้าไม่ได้อ่าน ชีวิตก็ไม่ได้รู้สึกว่าขาดอะไรไปนะแต่ถ้าย้อนวัยกลับไปเมื่อตอนสิบขวบต้นๆเราว่าเราน่าจะต้องหลงรักมูมินแน่ๆมันมีเสน่ห์สำหรับเด็กๆตื่นเต้นเล็กน้อย แต่ยังฟีลกู๊ดไม่มีอะไรน่าหวาดเสียว รุนแรงตัวละครน่ารัก เล่าเรื่องน่าฉงานฉงาย ชวนติดตาม
Such a lovely positive read!
Parasta.
The explanation by the theater's lone inhabitant seems to sum up the theme of the book:"A theatre is the most important sort of house in the world, because that's where people are shown what they could be if they wanted, and what they'd like to be if they dared to and what they really are.""A reformatory!" said Moominmamma, astonished.The first half of the book seems imbued with sadness -- the (temporary) loss of a home, displacement (physically and emotionally) from family, the bitterness of the elderly stage rat.The theater becomes a place of exploration (outwardly as it literally floats down the river, but inwardly as characters explore the rooms of the theater, and ultimately themselves).The story spins off in all directions, stranding a pair of characters along the way, picking up some new ones, and looking in on frequent wanderer Snufkin on his return trip to the valley, causing anarchic mischief along the way.
This book seems like it was written by an angel. I love the Moomin comic strip, as reprinted by Drawn and Quarterly, but I was not prepared for a dense, epic, beautiful journey that I was given here. This is as close as we're going to get to the world where Dr. Seuss wrote a novel. What a great thing this is.
Äkkiä Niiskuneiti jätti kaikki ja seisoi hetken päällään.- Jotta hiukan rauhoittuisin, hän kuiskasi itsekseen. Minun täytyy rauhoittua, muuten räjähdän onnesta.Vaarallinen juhannus kuuluu mun lukulistalle aivan joka kesä, eikä se koskaan petä oivalluksissaan ja suloisuudessaan.
Con i Mumin alle prese con un'inondazione, no?Tornano gli spensierati troll Mumin nati dalla penna ( e dal pennello ) di Tove Jansson, alle prese con eruzioni e inondazioni che li obbligano ad abbandonare l'adorata casa per approdare, è il caso di dirlo, in un teatro galleggiante.
Naturalmente, non possono mancare gli Emuli!
Un Teatro è l'istituzione più importante del mondo, perché dimostra alla gente come potrebbe essere, come desidera essere anche se non osa diventarlo, e com'è in realtà"."Un riformatorio, allora!" esclamò spaventata Mamma Mumin.Ah, i libri che si finge di leggere per i nipoti!
När jag var liten ville jag höra muminböckerna gång på gång. Att läsa om dem som vuxen är som att komma hem. Och, otroligt nog, dessa böcker blir bara bättre ju äldre man blir. Just den här har en så fantastiskt underfundig historia. Dessutom är den så full av positiv syn på livet och annat man blir glad av.
A volcano unleashes a tsunami that floods Moominvalley, causing the family, no more than mildly perturbed by the experience, to take refuge in a floating theater.
Jansson pokes fun at the theatrical, the overly loquacious, the control freaks, and others, in way accessible to children and enjoyable to adults.Lots of friends here are into the Moomins, and, now that I've read one, I can see why - "Moominsummer Madness" was a hoot.
This is the only one of Jansson's works in our useless library system, and it is rather battered.
I hope I haven't triggered the librarians to cull it before I have the chance to read it to the kids.
One of my all time favorites, and perhaps my favorite Moomin book altogether. It is magical, filled with comforting wisdom about life and how to deal when a crisis hits. Moominmamma is the greatest character of all times, I just freaking love her.
This endeared the Moomins (and their friends) to me much more than I anticipated. Things happen, as if in a dream, where the valley floods... and Moominmama is worried about breakfast and coffee. They float around on their house until it starts to sink and they move to another floating house.It's endearing and I love everyone's attitudes of going with the flow and not worrying too much about things because they'll all work out. It's reminiscent of Pippi, and I'm really getting a feel for Swedish (or Swedish Finn) attitudes and I love them.
Snufkin sowing Hattifattener seeds to give the Park Keeper a scare might be the best scene in a book EVER.
I listened to the audio book.
They are a family of white, roundish fanciful creatures with large snouts like hippopotamuses and are the subjects of a series of nine children’s fairy tale like books written and illustrated by Tove Marika Jansson (1914–2001), a Swedish-speaking Finnish novelist, painter, illustrator, and comic strip author.
The first such book, The Moomins and the Great Flood, in which they come to live in their present home of Moominvalley, appeared in 1945, though it was the next two books, Comet in Moominland (1946) and Finn Family Moomintroll (1948), that brought the author fame.
It takes its character from Moominmamma, who greets every new event (however seemingly problematic) as a delightful experience; for instance, when a rising sea floods her house, she's charmed by how unfamiliar the kitchen looks seen underwater from the ceiling.
That seems to be Jansson's main underlying theme in all these books -- demonstrating how children around the Moomin family develop in moral sense and responsibility as if everything's their own idea.
Little My loves her sister, but might not turn out well if the Moomin house wasn't her second home.
Half way through the Moomin series. Another pleasant little adventure, if a tad weird. The Moomin family et al are flooded out by some volcano activity and take to the seas, somehow catching a lift in an adrift theatre. Certain family members get lost and go bobbing about elsewhere and, well, the usual weirdness ensues.Snufkin wasn't in this until over half way through, though he does have a memorable criminal encounter with the despicable park keepers and has to hone his parenting skills, and try and control Little My too - that was good. :-)
