https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121375.Wyoming
Entertaining from the perspective of 1932, but wholly offensive from the standpoint of 2018.
There are some things a girl simply cannot do.
Spirit and virtue and religion and training - and nerve are not enough to see a girl through situations that she should never have gotten into.
All this new woman modern century stuff is the bunk.
Women cannot be as free as men.
A girl is restricted - that is, a good girl - by her sex.
She is the mother of the race, and if the race is to progress instead of retrogress, she has to hold herself more sacred than men do.
I found this book in a used book store and my son loves M.A.S.H. Zane Grey is Sherman Potter's favorite author and I thought it would make a great stocking stuffer. To make it an even better gift I just moved to Wyoming a year ago. It was ok. I don't love westerns but thought it would be good to read so maybe we could talk about the book.
While not a huge fan of Westerns, I occasionally challenge myself to read them. I really liked this book. The descriptions of the scenery are wonderful and I knew most of the places he was describing. I've even paid for gas in Alladin, Wyoming once, tiny little town, but interesting. I liked the main characters as well. I though Martha Ann (which happens to be my sisters name as well) was rather foolish at first, but grew up rather fast. All in all, I liked this book and will be reading more of them.
of the best western I have read. You will love it!! I will be reading all of his books, I am hooked. What took be so long to find this fine author? One of the best western I have read, and have read a lot. I will be reading the rest of his books!!
I always heard that Grey was the quintessential Western author, but this book certainly did not meet my expectations. The characters were a little predictable, and the women a little too spunky. It was also a little cheesy. But I guess all Westerns pretty much follow a "formula."
Couldn't make it on this one. I wanted to try it because I saw my grandfather read Grey. I suppose if one had actually lived during or right after this time period it might be more interesting but personally I'd rather watch grass grow.
One of Zane Grey's best!Having been an avid Zane Grey reader for forty years and Wyoming is a great story of the old west. Zane's depiction of the purple sage, the brush covered hills and jagged mountains place the reader in the hills of the old west
I love the way that Zane Gray writes about landscapes. The descriptions of Wyoming scenery are heartbreakingly beautiful. I hate the way Zane Gray writes about women. His portrayals of female characters reveals some stunningly ass-backwards thinking about gender.
Absolutely one of the bestI really enjoyed this story. Great setting, great characters. Good plot. The ending be came predictable, but it was .most enjoyable.
As my little brother put it, "This is the best romance."And I will admit: it is.Plus the girl in it is so stubborn it makes my heart proud.
