https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64394.The_Stainless_Steel_Rat
To understand the unique brilliance and enduring popularity of the Stainless Steel Rat, it’s important to understand the world in which these stories take place. It is the far future and genetic manipulation and controls have bred the “malcontent” or “criminal” gene out of humanity...all but a few anyway. Society is sterile, homogenous and lifeless. Shattering the status quo is James Bolivar DiGriz (aka The Stainless Steel Rat) and his roguish, adventure-filled criminal schemes. He is an exciti
To understand the unique brilliance and enduring popularity of the Stainless Steel Rat, it’s important to understand the world in which these stories take place.
Shattering the status quo is James Bolivar DiGriz (aka The Stainless Steel Rat) and his roguish, adventure-filled criminal schemes.
As DiGriz himself explains early on in the novel:   My life is so different from that of the overwhelming majority of people in our society...They exist in a fat, rich union of worlds that have almost forgotten the meaning of the word crime.
Now that society is all ferroconcrete and stainless steel there are fewer gaps between the joints and it takes a smart rat to find them.
My copy comes from the late 80s when it was selling very well.The main points of interest for me were how poor a prediction of future technology it was, and how badly sci-fi was written 55 years ago.The Stainless Steel universe has the 'standard' many-times-faster-than-light travel, instant communication (via psychic telephone men this time), and highly intelligent robots.A strange distinction is made between robots and computers.
Given that the sci-fi 'failings' were pretty common to most (all?) of the sci-fi around at the time I guess the strong voice accounts for the books' popularity.Essentially this work was 'of its time' and has dated badly.Fortunately it's a very short book, perhaps only 50,000 words or so.Join my 3-emails-a-year newsletter #prizes..
Do you know why my review copy looks so different from the one you may have read?
Let’s give it up for the librarians, shall we, the ones who track down my ridiculous requests for books published before I was (figuratively, of course, my dears).
Because I just read a book first published in 1961, I’m drinking and listening to Three Dog Night, and I’m all hazy on what decade I’m supposed to be in.*************Because I'm likely to digress even further (so off-topic!!), you can find the entire review at:http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2014/0...ANDhttp://carols.booklikes.com/post/7648...-Shout-out to my friends that reviewed this, particularly Eric, whose recent review helped draw my attention to it.
Because, as forward-thinking as Harrison no doubt thought himself (or so it seems to me, knowing nothing about him at all other than having read this one book) for casting a woman as the antagonist, and making her smart, and independent, he ruined all of that when he THEN made her psychotic about her looks - and actually had the main male character say something to the effect of "I had wondered how someone so beautiful became so smart" and "she was cursed by ugliness".
A fun, entertaining and, above all else, quick read.
Just what the doctor ordered after finishing the mammoth tome that is A Game of Thrones.
This Sci-Fi lite-meets-hardboiled cop dramedy makes for a nice, mindless distraction.
It probably only deserves 3 stars (this ain't Shakespeare, folks!), but I'm willing to bump it up a full star more for the pure enjoyment of it all.
Some will consider the writing so-so or even subpar, while others will complain of stereotypical characters (I actually enjoyed the overly cocky main character), but those people need to pull the stick out and relax on this one.
Rating: 3* of fiveDistastefully sexist, but 58 years old.It was a modest amount of fun reading it because I like capers.
"Slippery Jim" diGriz plans a fun caper indeed, thrice in fact, and I had no problem seeing how to modernize the capers.
Still and all, I can't really think of a reason to read the book if you haven't already because there's really nothing substantive to be gained and a lot of attitude changes have rendered the central points of the plot outdated to the point of actually becoming offensive in a #MeToo world.So you've been warned/enticed, depending on your social orientation.
Make Room!, wrote a pulpy sci-fi adventure as an homage to prototypical science fiction adventures of an even earlier era.
While this didn't age as well as one would hope, and may get knocked down by fans of more contemporary science fiction on that account, I enjoy occasionally looking back in time and reading influential genre works, as they give a glimpse into how the genre was built and evolved into what it now is.
To save my own sanity, I chose nothing."In the future society where Jim diGriz lives, most criminal and anti-social behavior has been weeded out of the human genome.
It’s hard for bad guys to hide themselves in this antiseptic society — in order to survive, you gotta be a stainless steel rat, and Slippery Jim diGriz is a really sneaky one.
For a science fiction novel written in 1961, The Stainless Steel Rat ages well, too.I listened to Brilliance Audio’s version read by Phil Gigante who gives a lively performance.
Brilliance Audio will be producing several more Stainless Steel Rat novels read by Phil Gigante.
This leads him into conflict with the beautiful and deadly Angelina, who mostly gets away with stuff because this book was written in 1961, so even in this far-future galactic setting, everyone expects a pretty girl to be a hapless doll, not a sociopathic mastermind plotting revolutions and conquest.DiGriz is the archetypical scoundrel who's secretly a decent guy, and his crimes are mostly bloodless ones.
And also because she's a criminal mastermind like him.Coal-burning robots, giant battlecruisers that exist for no particular reason, thousand-year-old galactic civilizations, and guys 'n dolls.
This was a nice blast from the past, a fast moving space opera with a wonderful main character, Slippery Jim DiGriz.
Pistols shoot 75 caliber bullets, but can be stopped by bullet proof underwear.There is a lot of action & DiGriz is always ready with a snappy word, but he's a young steel rat in this one which makes him more 'real' & likable than he is in some of the later books.This was well read by Phil Gigante.
The story is just as good whether printed or read aloud.
I was surprised to find how well this book stands up after all these year. I hadnt read Harry Harrison before so i didnt expect it to be this good.It was raw quality with fun adventure, great satirical humour,ingenious plot twists. Good action too. The ideal fun space adventure i was looking for.Slippery Jim himself is an awesome character to read and memorable. His strong first person narrative carried the book very well. Every thought,word from him was interesting. He made me smile by the kind of twisted criminal he was,just who he was.
As such I think ‘The Stainless Steel Rat’ is a truer heir; like those archetypes it has an uncomplicated hero to root for (albeit, more of the roguish type), various cardboard cut-outs posing as planets and absolutely no ambition to achieve any depth whatsoever.
His first assignment though is truly deadly, bringing him into contact with a woman far more dangerous and devious than he ever was.This is a fine book if you just want a distraction, if you don’t want to think about it too much.
I think the fact that it's taken me a week to get through a third of this short book is a fair indication of my total lack of interest, so I'm giving up.I read this and a couple more of the series back in my teens and remember enjoying them well enough.
But it's not special - I don't understand why it seems to be hailed as some kind of classic these days.
But for someone who enjoys this kind of novel, then it will probably work quite well.
Just don't expect it to be more than it is, which I think is where the problem arose for me.
I wasn’t going to buy it, in case it remained not-my-thing, but actually it’s pretty fun.
It’s a pretty short book, or the tone might start to grate, and there were one or two things I disliked about the portrayal of the female antagonist, but it was pretty fun.The problem with the female antagonist is mostly that her motivation revolves around being ugly originally, and that “twisted” her.
It’s not 100% my thing, but I am going to read some more.Originally posted here.
3 1/2 starsFinally I could read this classic.
The Stainless Steel Rat was a light reading with an ironic criticism about human nature, but no the devastating warning that was the other.
A light reading, curiously it remembers me the Spanish pulps I read when I was a very young space cadet (it occurs me than perhaps those are influenced by this one).
Enjoyable, with some funny moments, honestly it deserves not more than 3 1/2 Stars (half for the classic).
However, my "reunion" with the master Harrison is a happy one and it will not be the last reading from the "rat" Jim diGriz missions.
The Stainless Steel Rat introduced me to comedy sci-fi many, many years ago. It opened up a whole new genre which, in turn, led me to comedy fantasy. I'm very grateful to Harry Harrison for that.I remember the plot as being somewhat convoluted, but it boiled down to master conman turns cop... and falls in love. I recommend it to anyone who likes a bit of fun, I plan to re-read it soon.
Excellent SF caper novel. The successors get steadily worse, but #1 is definitely worth reading.
I absolutely love all the Stainless Steel Rat books, and have read each one many times. I cannot recommend them highly enough
I read this book for the first time back in the early 90s, while at university.
Strangely, I never went any further with the stainless steel rat series, although I remembered loving the first book – and I gave it four stars based on that memory.To rectify that, I ordered the sequel – 
Once it arrived, of course, I realised I couldn't really remember what happened in the first book, so I read that first.
Also, nobody makes Jim diGriz look like a fool!Already looking forward to the rest of the series...
I don't know why but I was expecting something more like vintage space opera from the 30's and was surprised to find this was actually written in the mid '60s and still feels fresh.This is light, fast-moving, edge of your seat stuff that you will whip through in no time.
There is very little world building and scene setting either to drag down on the pace of the story allowing the reader to focus on the characters and the fast-moving story.I'm not sure how much of this long series I'm going to read but I wouldn't be surprised if I end up reading quite a few of them.
This was entertaining but not as good as 'Make Room! Make Room!' by the same author. But then again, the comparison is not fair as 'Make Room! Make Room!' is more serious than this. But reading 'SS Rat' once won't make you regret it.
Furthermore, diGriz finally realizes (or at least, thinks he realizes) that the original cause of her murderous criminality is a feeling of inferiority beneath the male gaze -- she was ugly as a young woman, and first turned to crime in order to fund plastic surgeries.(It makes me really, really glad that I was born after the 1960s to see that so many imaginative writers then -- definitely not just Harrison -- could imagine all kinds of astonishing changes to the world except for changes in the condition of women.)However, this book is so well done that I really enjoy reading about Angelica despite her sorry circumstances.
Just like SSR, that sci-fi has dated ethics, dated sexual stereotypes, dated technology, dated story structures -- it is really more a product of its time than real science fiction.
By no means, however, does this make SSR or this B sci-fi 'good work.' There were two problems I had with Stainless Steel Rat. The first was the main character -- Jim diGriz.
It also would have worked better if the characters/plot was actually clever (not just Jim bragging he was).
An SF/humor classic.
Here's the short story that kicked the whole thing off, in 1957:http://www.iol.ie/~carrollm/hh/ssrsho..."When the office door opened suddenly I knew the game was up.
It had been a money-maker - but it was all over.
I almost knew to the word what he was going to say before he uttered a syllable.'James Bolivar diGriz I arrest you on the charge-'I was waiting for the word charge, I thought it made a nice touch that way.
..."I think this is about half of the fix-up novel that kicked off the series.
Humor Warning applies.
If....if....if....you want to read Sci-Fi Comedy (A Sub-Genre that I personally despise), then I recommend this book. I do not recommend Douglas Adams' series at all, and this book is better and more comical than all five of Adams' Hitchhiker series.Strong characters! Will continue reading the series!
This book aged very well - probably because it focused more on the characters and the caper - and those are timeless.
Another in the stainless steel rat books. They are all quick reads with alot of humor in them. The stories remain fresh and new. Very recommended, especially to teen readers or someone new to SiFi
Ho Hum space opera about ambitious space thief. Okay, but a little mechanical and dull.
Amazing that this was written in 1961, 5 years before Star Trek. It is s credible piece of work, fast and fun, with enjoyable characters. Good for teens with an interest in old sci-fi.
Rereading after twenty someodd years. still fun and pulpy, but wow have some parts of this book not aged well.
