https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/726374.Payment_Deferred
"Then, after desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin, and sin, when it full grown, gives birth to death."أولى قرآتي لفروستر، رواية صغيرة، تتناول فكرة دفع الثمن سواء عاجلاً أم آجلاً، وأنه لا يمكن أن تبقى الجريمة في طي الكتمان، فسيأتي يوم ويُكتشف كل شيء. وفيها أيضاً ملامح سيكولوجية عن نفسية المجرم -بعد ارتكابه لجريمته- مما ذكّرني بشخصية راسكولينيكوف برواية الجريمة والعقاب. قد نعتقد بأن المال هو كل السعادة والراحة، وعندما نحصل عليه ندرك بأن الراحث النفسية لا تُشترى بكل أموال الدنيا.استمتعت بها جداً....
Payment Deferred is a very modern psychological thriller which hooks the reader in from the start: an astonishing work to come up with in the 1920s by a young man at the start of his career.
The Snow Kimono might also be defined as a psychological thriller, as long and meandering as Forester's is to the point.
Whereas CS Forester knows exactly what you are doing.
And despite - or perhaps because of - the implications of the title, the reader is sort of barracking (in the Australian usage of the word) for the petty man who acts on this big idea.rest here: https://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpre...
As a reader, we can 'feel' the anticipation of the man thinking of committing a murder; as the story progresses we can 'feel' throughout the story the tension in Marble's mind, his fear of getting caught, how he tries to preserve himself, how deeply it affects his family.
The story was dark and sad for my taste, but wasn't able to stop reading.
After I put down the book, am still thinking about it - its not that its a shocking tale, but still not able to help feeling annoyed and disgusted in turns!

I'm a sucker for this kind of thing, and this was a beaut. Kind of Therese Raquin-ey, with a dash of Simenon, filled with paranoia, foreboding, lots of drinking and looking out the window at the backyard. Written in the Twenties (pre-Hornblower), it was concise, quietly stylish, and in terms of British noir, quite revelatory. Three yips for C.S.Forester Yip Yip Yip!
2 1/2 stars if I could. It is a bit dated but probably very popular in its time.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
C.S.Forester reminds me so much in his style of writing, of George Orwell, and Payment Deferred is one of three crime novels (The Persued and Plain Murder making up the trio) written between the wars depicting the blue collar lives of individuals in suburban London, and of their attempts to satisfy a driving passion by whatever means at their disposal. I can recommend this Author to anyone born and bred in England who can travel back in time to twenties and thirties London.
This was great! Very well written, the story is brilliantly engineered as destiny finds a convoluted but inexorable way to strike on those who deserve to be punished for their selfish, miserable actions. The ending is brilliant and unexpected. I’ll surely read the other two crime books from the same author.
An excellent read.A desperate man, an impulsive act, a guilty secret, an unnatural obsession, and finally the perfect ending.You can find this book on fadedpage.com"Faded Page is an archive of eBooks that are provided completely free to everyone."
I really enjoyed the ending; the beginning was just alright. I didn’t think the emphasis on Mrs Marble being dumb needed to be repeated every other page. Nevertheless, this is on my shortlist for books I’d like to adapt to a graphic novel - I think it’d fit the medium very well.
الروايه ذكرتني بروايه الجريمة والعقاب فيودور دوستويفسكي وبطل الروايه راسكولينكوف ان المال يمنح السعادة فى النهايه يكتشف البطلان ان المال لا يجلب السعادة خاصه حينما يكون مبتل بالدماء ولكنها محاولة للكاتب فى فهم تعقيدات الشخصية الإنسانية مقدماً عدداً من التفسيرات، مناقشاً الدوافع والبواعث الكامنة في اللاوعيتناقش الروايه فرضيه الجريمة الكاملة - هل توجد جريمة كاملة ؟ ام ان فقط القلي من الحظ قد يؤخر كشف الجريمة ولكن فى النهايه لا يوجد جريمة كاملة لا اعتقد ان الورايه تجيب على تلك الفرضيه فى النهايه خاصتاُ ان ما كشف جريمته الاولى هي الجريمة الق=ثانيه التى لم يقم بها
Adultery, lust, murder, and a twist at the end. Nice one Cecil.
كما تدين، تُدان
clever to show the effects of crime. nicely written.
I've not yet read Crime and Punishment, but is this perhaps somewhat similar? A man commits a murder for financial gain and then has to live with the consequences. He is able to convert his ill-gotten gains into true wealth, but fear of discovery keeps him from fully enjoying it, much to the bewilderment of his family, who are baffled (and limited) by his restraint. None of the characters is particularly likeable, except perhaps for the hapless victim, which makes it hard to care much what happens. I very much enjoyed the ending, however.
Payment Deferred the novel which made Forester's name, is about the effect that a crime has on the unsuspected criminal.The Marble family are sinking into debt; their miserable suburban lower middle class existence is about to reach the point when it will have to be exchanged for something even worse, as credit is no longer extended to them, and threats of legal action are being made.
Generally, they fuel his drink habit and lead to depression, sleeplessness and so on.There are no strong characters in Payment Deferred; it is a study in weakness.
Having enjoyed Forester’s wonderful Hornblower adventure novels in my younger years, I had no hesitation to now explore his earlier works classified as noir mysteries.
A late evening disposal of the body is hastily arranged by digging a grave in a small plot of garden while Mrs. Marble and their two teenage children are safely ensconced in their beds.
But from thereon he dreads having to move away from his dwelling which could lead to the discovery of the buried corpse.
The description of the murder itself is well done, so subtle that one can be excused for thinking like Mr. Marble and believing that it was actually a dream.If you want a sample of Forester's writing style, here's a quote describing Marble's daughter, Winnie:"[Winnie] liked to think of herself as cold-blooded and calculating.
Calculating she may have been; cold-blooded she certainly was not.
Winnie's cold-bloodedness amounted to an ability to see the folly of recklessness combined with an inability to avoid being reckless."And the fatal mistake on Mr. Marble's part, the "excellent final twist"?
Although I'm still not exactly sure what genre that is, maybe more thriller then mystery, because from the very first chapter you know all the details of the murder.
Things move along quickly,(*spoilers*) and while there is a scene involving Mr. Marble and a woman he's having an affair with- His son, John, walks in on them, shocked and horrified, and leaves as quickly as possible.
It leaves you feeling shocked with John, not because of graphic details, but the mental impression.
But the end of that chapter almost made me cry (*end spoilers*) It was a hard book to rate, because the subject matter, and the ending felt a little off- satisfactory in way, but rather anticlimactic.
Poor Mr Marble, he's trapped in a stultifying job and marriage (as he sees it) and drowning in debt.
Temptation arrives in the form of a wealthy relative, temptation he seizes without a thought for the consequences.
Unfortunately for Mr Marble, this novel is a tale of consequences.
We may not like the characters, but privy as we are to their innermost thoughts, we understand them and empathise.
I won't spoil the ending, but it takes an unexpected form.A dark domestic tale, a murder mystery and psychological thriller rolled into one.Nina Jon is the author of the Jane Hetherington Adventures in Detection crime and mystery series.
I always thought that C S Forester only wrote seafaring novels; I never associated him with three psychological suspense stories written at the start of his career in the 1920s.
It's the story of pathetic bank clerk William Marble and his slow, but unremitting descent into madness following the death of his only nephew.
Forester has a really distinctive voice and devised a gripping plot that is worthy of comparison to Ruth Rendell or Andrew Taylor.
It's hard to believe that this was written almost 90 years ago, and even harder to believe that this (along with his two other suspense titles), has been out-of-print for decades.
É uma daqueles livros em que o final é certo e sabido, mas não deixamos de apreciar a viagem, com bastante schadenfrude perante o destino de Will Marble, que se deixa obcecar pelo medo de ser apanhado pelo crime que cometeu.
É quase impossível simpatizar com as personagens: Will Marble é um escroque da pior espécie, Annie Marble uma mosquinha morta dominada pelo marido, a Winnie Marble uma fedelha, Jim Medlands um lorpa, Madame Collins uma manipuladora interesseira e o marido desta um pobre diabo.
John Marble até era um mocinho promissor, mas faltou-lhe um bocado mais de fibra.
Em suma, individualmente estas personagens pouco valem, mas em conjunto fornecem um entretenimento razoável.
I first read this book many years ago and can't even remember how I came across it as, at the time, I only knew C.S. Forrester for his 'Hornblower' series.
I thought this was a terrific story and found myself another copy recently to re-read it.
This book was written in the early 1900's, but is the timeless story of a dreadful crime and its far-reaching consequences.
When Mr Marble is suddenly presented with an answer to his financial problems he jumps in with both feet.
This is a slim little volume, a neat, bite-sized story, a kind of awful, cautionary tale.
Interesting to start reading C S Forester through crime books.
I never read any of the Hornblower series (I may now), nor was I interested.
I was curious about Forester as a crime writer and this is my second.
The narrative is seen from the perspective (not first-person) of Mr Marble, soon to be seen as the criminal who tries to hide and hide from his crime.
Interesting to compare with, but a very different style, Pop 1280, or The Killer Inside Me by Jim Thompson, but very English.
Not easy reading by today's standards, very literate and descriptive rather than dialogue driven, but well worth the journey.
Forester, better known for his Horatio Hornblower series, which I now want to read too, wrote a classic example of British mystery. I'd call it a sort of precursor of Ruth Rendell. Actually, there isn't much mystery about it, it's more a case of putting a person of weak character in a moment of temptation and then watching how it all unravels. Lucidly written. And if you want to find more discussion of classic British crime, among other things, check out Martin Edwards' excellent blog.
The expression that money is the route of all evil applies to this work in more ways than one. Mr Marble and his family are living hand to mouth until someone comes along with an answer to his monetary problem. However the way that he solves the problem weights heavily on his mind, so heavily that he does not want people to come into his house and he barely leaves. The pay off is ironic. My expression for this is what goes around comes around. You have to read about Mr. Marble and his poor family.
An exceptional pre-war crime novel in which the murderer is never in doubt. Other than the killer and the reader, however, no one even knows the murder has been committed. An absorbing study of an ordinary man who suddenly, unexpectedly does a terrible thing because he's pressed for money and is then haunted by his guilt and fear of discovery. It seems inevitable he will be found out - but when and how? Tense stuff and highly original.
This is the third C.S. Forester book that I have read and they are all so very different. The cover was a bit deceiving in its description but C.S. Forester does a great job of describing the madness of his main character. Interesting read but a disappointing ending in that it felt like it just dropped off.
I had no idea good old C.S. even wrote crime novels. This was advertised as a mystery, but it isn't; the reader knows from the first who committed the murder. The fascination lies in watching the moral decay of the murderer, not in deciphering who committed the crime. Reading this, I was struck by what a good play it would make. Turns out it was both a Broadway play and a movie in the 1930s.
