https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/132609.Where_s_Spot_
Before I'd read Ulysses, I must admit I was sceptical about claims that every novel written since can do little more than recapitulate it in one form or another.
But now my eyes have been opened: at a glance, it is obvious that Where's Spot?
is in essence no more than an abbreviated, non-sexist, non-speciesist version, retold in a manner suitable for three year olds who like lift-the-flap books.Penelope (Spot's mother) has evicted Ulysses (Spot's father) from Ithaca.
Traumatized, Telemachus (Spot) reenacts his progenitor's wanderings in symbolic form; reversing the roles, Penelope goes in search of him.
There's very little character development and nothing in the way of conflict, really, because we never get the sense of horror or dread from Sally that we may never actually find Spot.
Finding Spot is kind of a given.What's weird is that, through the course of the book, Sally looks inside various pieces of furniture and appliances.
Instead of finding Spot, though, she uncovers other different animals---a snake inside the grandfather clock, a hippo inside the piano, a crocodile under the bed.Never once does Sally question why there are so many wild animals hiding in this house.
A classic - was so happy to introduce this book to my friends 3 year old son - the smiles and the laughter made my day!
I did what I had to do to finish my challenge..............
Words cannot describe the inspiration one can attain from this masterpiece. This is a must read for any human being.
Kinda concerning that these people have a snake, a hippo, and a lion living in their home.
My mum gave me this book recently for my baby boy and it brought back so many memories!
I don't know why but I treasured this book for many of my younger years.
I loved the illustrations and opening the pop out pages to try and find spot.
It was my 'go to' book and I'd read it again and again.
It seems my little boy is a fan already as he eagerly grabs the book off me to open the pages and the flaps on the pages.
He adores dogs so I think this book will become a favourite for him too!
Similar to my previous book review Dear Zoo, the simplistic language will support Key Stage 1, Early Key Stage 2 and English as an additional language (EAL) learner.
This will enable the children to understand different parts and items in a house, this again will help the EAL learner be able to relate to the pictures and recognise them so they can enhance their learning of English.
I love the mystery element of the book, I would love to ask the children to put their detective hats on and help solve the mystery of where’s Spot.
Synopsis : A classic tale of a mother dog searching for her own lost puppy, finding eight other animals hiding around the house before finding her own. Fun, interactive flaps conceal the animals. Review : What can I say? I love flap, flip, "reveal the hidden surprise" books and this one is no exception. Although I would be hesitant to recommend this book to any tiny child without some adult supervision as the flaps aren't sturdy enough to take aggressive flipping. The story leads the readers on
: A classic tale of a mother dog searching for her own lost puppy, finding eight other animals hiding around the house before finding her own.
I love flap, flip, "reveal the hidden surprise" books and this one is no exception.
The story leads the readers on a search for Spot where words for furniture such door,clock, piano and animals such as bear, snake, hippo are introduced.
Funny that the house is filled with bears, lions and snakes---children will have fun mimicking the sounds each animal makes and can even add special effect noises for opening the door, piano, trunk.
Book review 6 - Where’s Spot?
The book is about a mother dog searching for her lost puppy (Spot) and as she roams around the house she finds eight other animals before she finds Spot.
This creates opportunity for children to mimic animal sounds.
It truly is a classic book and one, which has inspired other authors to create similar books – it has also inspired a TV series, which has gained good reviews from adults and children alike.
Furthermore, the book has a repetitive nature and repeats words and phrases, which helps children in learning new vocabulary.
'Where's Spot'?
In this particular book in the series of books featuring Spot, his mother Sally searchs the house trying to find him.
The story follows Sally looking all over the house in various places in search of Spot.
In each different scene, a question appears asking whether Spot will appear e.g.
No!'.The object/s that could potentially reveal Spot appear as a flap that must be lifted in order to reveal the answer, adding an extra element of interaction with the story for the reader.The story is very simple and engaging and is likely suitable for Reception/ KS 1 children developing their literacy skills.
Eric Hill’s “Where’s Spot?” is a classic story of a mother dog searching for her lost puppy.
I personally had used this book as stimulus within the EYFS curriculum as it allows children to begin and develop their understanding of propositional language, for example is he behind the door?
Furthermore, many children enjoy this book very much as it is an interactive book allowing children t search for Spot using the flaps.
Additionally, the language is very simple and repetitive which in turn can help develop the language and communication levels for EAL learners.
A really charming tale for children about.
Dinner is ready and Spot's mother is looking for him around the house.
There are mystery flaps throughout the book which you flip and they tell you that Spot is not there with a guess.
A book that children will love as they will be looking for flaps all over the pages and at the same time they will be learning about things in the house.
The book has great colourful pages and the flaps make it even more fun.A highly recommended book for children in EYFS.
This is a lift-the-flap book. The flaps were pretty sturdy, but it didn't take too much effort for him to tear them off. He still loves the book, though! (We just cover the part of the pages that are missing flaps with our hands now.) This book has great interaction. On each page, LittleJohn answers the question "Is he [here]?" with "No!" and then tells us what animal is there under the flap. He really enjoys this book, and likes saying the animal names in funny voices like his Daddy.
Toddler's love this easy to use 'lift-the-flap' book with hidden animal surprises. Whenever my daughter discovers that in fact we have not found spot and merely stumbled across a hippopotamus or lion in the house, she loves yelling ‘NO!’ A young child’s classic that encourages great interaction and can be enjoyed by all!
There will apparently never be a finish date for this book. We ( my granddaughter and I) reach the last page, she turns the book to the front cover and signs "more". - She us thirteen months old and will look for Spot for forty five minutes at a session. Actually she could go longer, but grandma can't.
My grandchildren have LOVED this book. Young preschoolers enjoy the interaction that goes along with the story plus opening the flaps. It is definitely a book to read with a child as they tend to be a bit hard on the flaps without adult supervision. It is fairly easy to make up your own words to vary the adult reading experience so you can stand to read it one more time.
Really strange animals in that house!
Absolutely adorable and my kiddo loves it!
OMG i love this book. This is my favorite child hood book.
A very short well done flap opening type of book.
That spot always up to something
FAB!!
Where can he be?”Brief Book Summary: A mother dog is looking for her pup, Spot and finds 8 other animals before finding Spot in a basket.Professional Recommendation/Review #1:Jeanenne (BookHive (www.bookhive.org))http://www.clcd.com.ezaccess.librarie...Sally the dog is looking for Spot the puppy in this classic lift-the-flap book by Hill.
Toddlers will get a thrill as they lift the flaps and see what animal surprises they will find.
Professional Recommendation/Review #2:Susie Wilde (Children's Literature) http://www.clcd.com.ezaccess.librarie...I'll always remember turning the pages of Eric Hill's first Spot book, Where's Spot?
I remember reading this book as a child and it was fun for me to try and guess which animal I would see next.
Lots of Kids books gonna be on this feed in the next few years since I'm Daddin' hard so be warned.The missus has been reading this a ton to bebe, and I was always a little skeptical because even though it's canon, I don't really remember it from my childhood.
My skepticism was a mistake.
When I finally got around to reading it to bebe myself, I was as equally thrilled that in the quotidian home in which a mamma dog is looking for her puppy there are all manner of wild and exotic animals hiding all over the house.Obvious tip: read all the exotic animals voices in different ways to bebe.
An old favorite from my childhood. Lift the flap book. Very similar to Dear Zoo: A Lift-the-Flap Book, but better in my opinion.
I believe this book would be fun for both kids and parents that read it. It is interactive with the flip folds and a good boost for young children's problem solving skills to see the different locations Spot could be. I enjoyed the book.
This book is less weird if you don't open the flaps. Not opening the flaps allows you to pretend Spot's family doesn't have a zoo in their home.
It's a nice book to use for interaction because you can ask the kids "Do you think Spot's in there?" and "Is that Spot? What is it?"
So good to revisit old favourites with our beautiful baby grandson.
