https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/646056.The_Little_Mermaid
I liked it.lots of fish.lots of mermaid.prince marry mermaid.tells all girls all around the globe to do anything to marry a man they want to marry.Not good childrenfamily friendlyGUUD REVIEW10/10OWEN JIN
Loved it in a bitter sweet way.
Disney has made us see the little mermaid story in the prince loves the princess sort of way.
Not all prince charming fall for the right girl.
Following the prince isn't always the right way.
Life should have more goals other than marrying the stupid prince charming(i am personally upset from him for not picking up the foundling).
But love in itself is beautiful :)ah this did make me cry, and confused me, as i am unable to select my favorite between the two, the disney's happy ending or the authors version of the slightly bitter ending...
Never really loved the story of little mermaid, as it's tragic and I'm kind of afraid of mermaids...But this one is the disney version, so at least it got a happy ending...
This was my first Disney's favorite movie! I had to read the book and loved it
Cute.
This is a friction book , The little mermaid want to go on shore and she find Ursula and Ursula said
After Ariel dreams of having legs and being on land, she sees the prince one day and decides to exchange her voice for legs. After leaving the water she is given a certain amount of time to make Eric fall in love with her, but Ursula tricks Eric to think she is Ariel with her singing voice. Ariel runs out of time and is forced to lose her voice forever, but then tricks Ursula and ends up happily ever after with the prince.
This book was really well done. The pictures were all amazing and looked just like the characters from the movie. The story was very well written as well. It told the entire story and didn't leave out any important details. The only thing I didn't like about it was that it changed a couple of details and the changes didn't really make sense with the story. Overall the book was very good though and I would recommend it to Little Mermaid fans.
This was my favorite Disney movie growing up and the book holds true to this version of the story. I can't help but read some of these lines aloud to my child in Ursula's voice, or any of the other characters. This book, for sure, is not the original story, as many of Disney's adaptations came to be.
Clearly this book follows the Disney movie. It mirrors American culture. We are all glad when the wicked witch is destroyed, dad waves his magic wand and gives his daughter her total freedom and they lived happily ever after although they truly did not even know each other. Blech! It lacks the music that made the movie a hit.
This book is about a princess, Arial, who finds a man thrown overboard during a storm, drags him to safety, and keeps one of his treasures. 3 topic ideas: Weather Oceans Sharks Compare and contrast Genre - Fantasy, Fiction
The story of Ariel is a great story. A mermaid becoming a princess is quite a story. I would have this book in my classroom.
Go under the sea with princess Ariel, friends and family. Wanting to be human, Ariel is no different than allof us who have dreams and hopes. Great story for all
This book is about a Sea With called Ursula took Arirls voice.Then, Ariels dad King Triton killed Ursula.After that, Ariel married Prince Eric.
My name Arielle so is close to Ariel so I love it.😍😍😍😍😍😍
cute story
Ariel is so cute and her friends!
Cute for fans of Little Mermaid.
As a child I searched for the book version because I couldn't get the movie in the video club. I remember being thrilled when I got it for Christmas
The Little Mermaid is a favorite among children. Everyone fantasizes about swimming around and having a life in an underwater world!
Arial is a mermaid who eventually falls in love with a human and turns into one. Her father is the king of the sea and Ursula is the evil character who tries to cause a lot of problems. Flounder is Arial's best friend, who always sticks by her side. This book is great for teaching about the importance of friendship and family.
This specific form of the Little Mermaid myth is one paraphrasing a scene from the Disney movie.
It does start out like the movie and goes into about halfway through it.
Doing this with a story for children plants the seed of what a cliffhanger is and will start them into more series type of books.The Little Mermaid is a story that has been told for multiple generations, and obviously been rewritten and revised multiple times.
The illustrations in this book are directly identical to those of the movie, so of course they go hand in hand with what the text says.
Anjali just picked this up and started reading it out loud to me. That's a first. And just awesome, I'll never forget this book.
(Disclaimer: I read the Disney Storybook Collection version) The classic disney tale of The Little Mermaid tells the story of a mermaid named Ariel, whose life long dream is to be human and live above the sea.
After saving Prince Eric she disobeys her king father by going to the sea witch, Ursulla, and trades her voice in for a set of human legs.
Meanwhile, Ursulla shape shifts into a woman named Vanessa and uses Ariel's voice from a necklace to whoo Eric into marrying her.
I preferred the original version of the story where the little mermaid ends up without the Prince and unable to ever return to the ocean and her family again because she's been adopted by some fairies.I think what annoys me the most is that people rave on about how this book makes dreams come true and that it's such a beautiful story, but in reality the true author of the little mermaid wrote a gruesome tale of how a mermaid fell I love with a human Prince and was told by her sisters that she had to murder him and his wife if she was ever to return to the ocean again.
I wish that wise man would have met ariell before she traded in her beautiful mermaid tail in exchange for human legs.
My legs for her tail; i've thought about it before.
What ariell should have done is found a prince charming somehow and used her magical mermaid power and simply turned him into a merman.
she gets her prince charming and she gets to keep her mysterious status of being a mermaid.
Teitelbaum did a wonderful job with the story structure making it easy to put yourself in her shoes and simply imagine you are a mermaid.
LOVED THIS BOOK!
I think that is shows kids to follow your heart and your dreams will come true.
Obviously, we have all seen the movie, but I like the book even better because it gives kids the opportunity to picture their own setting beyond what the pictures show.
It is just such a cute storyline, where a mermaid wants to become a human when she falls in love with a prince she sees on the shore.
My favorite part of the story is when Arial collects different things humans use and collects them, having no idea what their purpose is.
She then fell in love with Prince Eric who saved her.
Ursula let her stay up on land for her beautiful voice.
So Ariel thought that was great idea until she then figured out that Ursula only wanted her voice to be with Prince Eric.
Yes Ariel was upset, but in the end Ariel gets her voice back and marries Prince Eric.
As Usual they have a Mermaid type wedding on a boat with all of Ariel Friends and Family gather around to watch her dream come true.
I LOVE THE LITTLE MERMAID!
What a way to move kids from the front of the television to sticking their noses into a book.
Disney took my favorite princess as a child, the little mermaid and put her adventures into written words.
Although it is a condensed version of the real story it is a good way to open kids up into the television and book world that has become so intertwined in todays world.
As Ariel the little mermaid makes her dreams come true when she turns into a human and falls in love with her 2 legged prince Eric.
(Traditional tale selection)A nice version of "The Little Mermaid" for beginning readers (grades 1-3). This book follows the storyline of the 1989 Disney full-length film. Part of the Little Golden Storybook series, it is meant to be a quick enjoyable read. Students will most likely already be familiar with this version of the tale and all the characters in the book. A good book for the classroom library, I would also use it with older students as a comparison tool to more faithful adaptations of the Andersen original (maybe during a study of folk and fairy tales).
