https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/416419.The_IRA
Coogan has got deeply into his subject and assembled names, dates, numbers (though I can't quite believe that the I.R.A. still had 30,000 members by the late 1920s - they would surely have had more of an impact if that were the case) and has a detailed picture of who the I.R.A. were and also why it didn't really matter that much in the context of how politics developed in the Irish Free State, and eventually the Republic of Ireland.Unfortunately the book is probably more often bought and read for the second half, the post-1969 story, which has several very serious flaws.First, from the narrative point of view, Coogan skips over the 1969 split between the Provos and the Stickies with indecent haste and almost no detail, in stark contrast to the chapter and verse he gave for the divisions between the 'mainstream' I.R.A. and other micro-groups in the previous four or five decades.
It was about the Irish, and specifically Clan na Gael, an organization headquartered in Toledo that supported the reunification of Ireland, and that raised funds for humanitarian aid to the people of Northern Ireland.The Blade’s editor suggested the CNG was sending more than bandages, medicine and food to Belfast.
His treatment of the organization is less sympathetic than I had imagined, but it’s enormously readable and full of memorable vignettes, some of them funny, some of them painful, and some a strange combination of the two.If you think you want this book, you’re going to have to search for it.
See my review of Coogan's book Michael collins. Coogan proves to be even a clumsier writer here than in his other book. But once agin, the sublect matter, the IRA, makes it worthwhile to read.Today Ireland is gorged with prosperity and the EEC makes one wonder what all the fight was about. In any event the Irish catholics in Ulster will win the issue of unification in the bedroom as the Prods become a minority over time even in the area that they gerrymandered to continue Protestant ascendency.
i would call this an exhaustive study of the history of the IRA. seemed like it took a whole year to read. i wanted to learn more about this century long struggle and now i know about every god damn bombing or botched attack that ever happened. ask me something about the IRA. anything.
I...did not like this book, which was disappointing since the history of the IRA and Irish history is of interest to me and a professor had said this was one of the best books to read about the IRA.
However, the book was so full of minutiae that it was hard to see the big picture.
I also found the writing to be not great, the sentences were long and rambling (and often confusing) and the incessant typos were distracting.I did find some of the chapter topics incredibly interesting and I wish he had spent more time on them, such as the IRA's connection with the Nazis during World War II and the Hunger Strikes of the 80s/Bobby Sands.
I would love to read a better written book about this topic.
Can anyone recommend a good book about the contemporary history of the Irish-English conflict?
Reading about Brexit makes me realize I don’t know much about that at all.
~ Dave RitchieBest book I've read is Tim Pat Coogan's The IRA.
Just finished this, which is excellent though not that accessible if you're not a giant nerd like me, but the author is a sociologist from Belfast whose research revolves around The Troubles and so I'd bet some of his other work is more so.
~ Sarah JaffeOtherwise, though not a book, I would recommend Sarah Jaffe's three pieces on the centenary of the Rising, and contemporary Irish nationalism.
My review here is about the early 1990s edition published by Rhinehart before the Good Friday Agreement and Omagh Bombing. Firstly, the text is incredibly small and hard to read. Secondly, the book itself needs a context, I believe. If you've read say, Coogan's "The Troubles" first, you'll then be able to better understand this one. As a reader with a sufficient understanding of Irish history, even some of this text's players, dates, and legislative references went over my head. I'm going to read Coogan's "The Troubles" and come back to "The IRA." I hope my rating will change.
Martin McGuinness was in the RA!??
Very detailed, great source on the subject.
A must read for those interested in Irish history.
It changes dramatically from part 2, published in 1977, on: now the journalist cannot pretend he doesn't understand the upsurge of violence, and though keeping a careful approach that still favours peace, he turns his outlook completely in benefit of the the fighters he is chronicling.This "real-time history", so to say, is one of the strengths of the book, but also one of its weaknesses.
Thirty or fourty years later, those events may have faded from most memories and say nothing to someone who not only isn't Irish (or British), but who wasn't even born at the time, like me.
Fourty years later, and in Brexit times, that conclusion is still relevant, and highlights the book's importance.
I started reading this book because I like to know 'why?' I've written a book and one of my characters is x IRA, I needed to know the reasons behind her characteristics, why she behaves the way she does and what drives such a spirit to seek revenge as she sees fit.Being of Irish decent, this era of Irish history plays a major role on how the country and the people became who they are today.Aside from the acts of terrorism, the development of such an army to protect the people against oppression and tyranny.
My character is hit hard by events of that day and deep within her is a craving to seek the revenge for the wrong done to her, to take matters into her own hands and hurt the ones responsible for the loss of her family.
This is an excellent book on the history of the IRA.
Coogan does not glorify the IRA's actions, instead demonizing all the useless violence in Northern Ireland, saying that much of what the violence was about could have been solved democratically.
Coogan does put blame on all parties involved though, pointing out each of the major mistakes that the many different sides did trying to solve the Irish problem.
I would recommend this book to anyone that is interested in Irish history or the IRA its self.
It is a very informative and interesting read.
Tim Pat Coogan is generally recognized as the foremost living author on modern Irish history.
Born in 1925 (when the Civil War was only two years ended) Coogan grew up in the maelstrom of Ireland's tumultuous 20th century.
As a journalist, he covered much of this history as it happened, interviewing many of the major players, and also having personal contacts throughout the Irish political scene.
With sympathy for its patriotic goals, acknowledging its pivotal role in establishing the Republic of Ireland, yet this study pulls no punches on its errors, frailties, foibles; its excesses & atrocities.
I read this back in 1983 when the conflict was in the news on a daily basis. It was a couple of years after the hunger strikes and when Margaret Thatcher was the UK Prime Minister. I was engrossed by it and found it very compelling to read. Of course, it has been updated since and would probably cover the entire length of the conflict. I would recommend it to anyone who likes to read about recent history.  The Black and Tan Summer: Ireland's Turbulent Year of 1920
An extremely detailed account of the history of the IRA.
As a Dubliner Coogan's Nationalist views are apparent, but like many Nationalists this does not mean he spares the IRA criticism where he believes it is deserved.
If one has a mind for detail and an interest in the roots of the politico-socio-religious conflict in Northern Ireland this is a good read.
If, however, one does not need to read the entire history of the IRA and is merely interested in the 1966-1996 period of the Troubles, Coogan's book "The Troubles" is a much smaller book ("The IRA" is around 800 pages).
A completely enjoyable read...but not as much of a history as I imagined. Well, that's not fair. It is a history, but more like a personal history, or at most an oral history. Coogan is more of your really really smart grandpa who knew everyone back in the day, telling you about how it was. There was no pretense of impartiality. Coogan is more...partial to bits and pieces of both sides. But the book was a fascinating series of stories.
Coogan is an Irish Times journalist whose family was involved in most of the more recent events of the last century. His writing is informed by a sense that he may know many of the principals of the story he sketches. I came away with a deeper understanding of the driving forces within the IRA itself and a sense of the links between it and its supporters in the republican community.
Tim Pat Coogan will never be accused of being an historian but he writes well, knows (and knew) a lot about the IRA and hit the timing mark perfectly with the first edition of "The IRA" which came from the printers just as British forces were landing in Northern Ireland and the IRA made a comeback. Would give this book a 2.5 if possible.
This book is very tough to get through because it's so dense. The IRA is a very complex organization and I am feeling overwhelmed at the number of names and dates. I think I should have started with a more general history before I tried to dive into this encyclopedic review of such a complicated group.
Frustrating but worthwhile. Full of detail but seemed to assume the reader was familiar with the larger historical and social context already. The edition I read was published in 1994, so on a hopeful but still very tentative note.
Great history of Ireland, heavy reading in terms of names and dates pertinent to comprehending the book. I was unable to finish the last 100 or so pages but have passed it on to an Irish friend who will be able to get through it!
very comprehensive work on the "troubles"
The definitive work on the Irish Republican Army and the Provos (Provisional IRA) and a fairly unbiased history of the development and growth of the IRA in Ireland, Europe and the United States.1
Is anyone else missing pages 201-232?
Someday I will figure out how to read an entire nonfiction book.
This is the second book I've read by Coogan. Never again. There is no forest. There are only trees. Many of them poorly identified.
Comprehensive, though often too chronological.
It's a partial (as opposed to an impartial account but this is its worth to a British reader.
So far, really dry.... I am fascinated by this subject, too.
