https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34237826-grant
That career stalled after a stint in the Mexican War, and revived during the Civil War when he could showcase his particular skills in strategy and logistics.The book cannot adequately be recapitulated in short form, so I resort to impressions hammered home by Chernow in a thousand examples: that Grant decided to trust certain people whether they were knaves or not.
More than anything, Chernow makes clear that Grant’s life, despite the lofty heights of public regard during certain periods, was a real struggle all the way through.
Sorry, but there is not a single shred of evidence in this book or elsewhere that Grant believed he had made mistakes or that he wished to correct them.
And he wrote: Rosecrans was weak, vain, and irresolute, lacking Grant’s superlative drive and focus.
There’s none; except, what should have been a caution, a citation to Grant’s wife’s Memoirs, recounting Grant ‘smiling’ when he got Rosecrans’ transfer paper.See, there’s enough in Chernow’s own book to demand skepticism of Grant, without even going to groundbreaking historical research.
It might seem odd that Chernow would chose Grant after writing about Washinton, Hamilton, John D.
I find it fascinating that a writer (Chernow) with a background in heavy in financial writing and thinking (he was once the director of financial policy studies with the Twentieth Century Fund), tends to bore easily with the major financial issues of Grant's tenure.But overall, I loved the book.
Grant - ★★★★★ Upon reviewing my reviews, I'm convinced Chernow does slightly better at writing histories of individuals rather than families; politics rather than finance.
"he was nothing heroic....and yet the greatest hero." Walt Whitman of Ulysses S. GrantA blue ribbon historical biography by Ron Chernow, who is one of the only historical biographers in recent years to gain some public notoriety, from his Alexander Hamilton serving as the basis and inspiration for the still-SRO "Hamilton" on Broadway.We read biographies, it seems to me, to remind us that the individual can matter and to learn what came to make the individuals who have mattered most. On both poi
Chernow holds Grant accountable for his faults, but demonstrates that they have been greatly exaggerated or overblown as the result of the Southerners' resentment and in service to their Lost Cause myth--that the Civil War was fought over states' rights and not over slavery.
Grant made him a citizen," in placing Grant alongside Lincoln as the man who had done the most for the nation's 4 million former slaves.Chernow also splendidly covers his younger years and what made him so great as the commanding general of the Union Army.
Chernow concludes that Grant is worthy of being labeled the "Civil Rights president." After reading this rather hefty bio, I agree.
While focused on Grant as it should be, this book also provides needed background on the state of the United States when Grant was a child and as he grew, as these changes in turn affected Grant's life and decisions.Truly an excellent biography, covering childhood through to burial, Grant's struggles to find a place in the world before the coming of the Civil War which led to his and others' discovery of his military talents.
Troubled by alcoholism he would lead the North to victory over the Confederacy, was a proponent of civil rights for freed slaves, and guided the United States through the perilous years following the Civil War.Every high school student is taught that there was a great deal of corruption linked to the Grant administration, but in truth noting ever involved him on a personal level.
Another major point that Chernow develops is that historians tend to concentrate on the Army of the Potomac and events in the east, with Grant’s life story the west comes into focus particularly its strategic value during the Civil War.Grant’s relationship with Lincoln was the key to victory.
As with the remainder of the book, this was the first of many "historical facts," that Chernow sets out to correct.
And we just think this type of thing is a product of the 21st century.Chernow is an artful storyteller and the book reads more like historical fiction than a non-fiction account of Grant's life.
However, as I stated, it does not affect the facts of the book in any way.
If you like history or even historical fiction then I highly recommend this book to you.
If you are a southerner, I think it is a must read in order to correct the misconceptions of a lifetime of ill-learning.
White showing us that Grant, far from the drunken butcher-general and terrible president caricatured throughout the years, was a shrewd military leader and a well-intentioned, if not always effective Chief Executive.
While Grant's often depicted as ambivalent about secession and slavery, Chernow shows that he, while hardly an abolitionist, harbored a deep-seated hatred of the "peculiar institution," was an early advocate of arming black troops and (despite a meme that remains popular in Lost Cause circles) never doubted slavery was the war's primary cause.
In these chapters as elsewhere, Chernow shows Grant as a genuinely good, well-intentioned man battling his own failings and the betrayal of those he trusts most, armed mainly with personal principles and unshakable stubbornness.
Like Twain, Walt Whitman was mesmerized by Grant and grouped him with George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, and Ralph Waldo Emerson in the quartet of greatest Americans. “In all Homer and Shakespeare there is no fortune or personality really more picturesque or rapidly changing, more full of heroism, pathos, contrast,” he wrote...Dismissed as a philistine, a boor, a drunk, and an incompetent, Grant has been subjected to pernicious stereotypes that grossly impede our understanding of the man. As a
(When Salomon proved corrupt, Grant handled his case leniently, letting him resign.) Elated at this appointment, Rabbi Isaac Mayer Wise said it showed “that President Grant has revoked General Grant’s notorious order No. 11.”
It just struck me as strange (though perfectly rationale given the circumstances) that the officer corps would populated and advanced in this way.As mentioned above Grant had a very ill-earned reputation as being a butcher of his troops and winning battles through sheer numbers instead of tactics and leadership like Lee. Once again the assholes from the Dunning School and the Lost Cause rear their stupid faces and defame the military reputation of possibly the greatest American General.
(view spoiler)[ He was born Hiram Ulysses Grant  (hide spoiler)] As president he was a proponent of civil rights and had to deal with the birth of the Klu Klux Klan and with domestic terrorism.
By the time I finished reading the book I felt like I knew Ulysses S.
There is more to the man than the reputation that one sometimes finds.Interesting fact from this book and the Civil War: (view spoiler)[Wilmer McLean was a Virginian whose house was near Manassas, Virginia ...
4,6/5I looooove biiiig books and I really like Grant (apparently) and I admire Chernow’s writing style and yeah... I loved pretty much everything about this 😊
The author covers the entire life of Grant with a more in-depth look at his military career and the Civil War. He reports on Grant’s mistakes as well as the accomplishments.
Chernow documents how Grant helped the slaves during the Civil War and after as president.
Chernow paints a picture of Grant as an advocate for civil rights after the War. Chernow shows how Grant’s trust of people had always caused him problems particularly when he was president.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book and learned more about Grant and his time.I read this as an audiobook downloaded from Audible.
Grant deserves to be taken far more seriously as a president and a leading figure in the battle for civil rights than he has been for the last hundred years or so, and Chernow’s biography—despite being about a million pages long—is almost certainly going to do it.Before reading the biography, my understanding of Grant boiled down to about five contradictory “facts”: he was a hard drinker, he won the civil war even though he wasn’t that good a general, he was compassionate towards Lee at Appomattox, he had one of the most corrupt presidential administrations in US history, and he went broke a lot.
4.5*'sSimply a masterful piece of history.
I cannot imagine the countless hours put into the research of this book gathering perspective from every viewpoint possible.
As with most things in life the thing that made it terrific is also the one criticism.
Chernow gives us a perspective on why Grant failed at different junctures.
It isn't that he was stupid or incompetent as many would portray him.
In many I can see the author's point but I think he's fallen in love with Grant's persona and has a hard time blaming him for anything whereas others he doesn't have that issue.
Still a terrific book.
While stationed in the Oregon Territory, his inability to "handle his liquor" became apparent and in the hard drinking pre-civil war army a major detriment.
This didn't immediately materialize; he drilled the new militia as a volunteer.Mr. Chernow does an excellent job of recounting Grant's Civil War experiences and how his reputation for be unable to handle hard liquor followed him.
While it never came to an open brake, there was a bit of tension there, esp when Grant went east to oversee the entire Union war effort.In my opinion, the best sections of the narrative are post-Civil War and the reconstruction.
But regardless of my former nuance of detail considering Grant or how he has been taught, this book made him come alive.
His indifference and ignorance with wanting or achieving wealth (and not understanding that "friends" could think very differently about this), not just within his own political/life sphere either, seems not as much a concern as it should have been in such a lengthy study??
But what bravery considering that he was forced to go to West Point and that it wasn't even his 2nd choice to be set upon the military path- and where that took his life in totality.
I feel like I understand the man and the time better, but it’s also classic Chernow in that he glosses over some really crucial economic issues.
Grant was wrong on it, but no matter.The beauty of the book and the fact of it being written at this point in history is the reclaiming of the history of Reconstruction from Southern revisionism that completely rewrote the war and the violent upheaval of reconstruction by southern democrats.
Grant understood that what the South was taking through klan violence and disenfranchisement was exactly what he had fought to protect during the war.
My favorite part of the book was Chernow’s chronicle of Grant’s rise to fame and greatness in the Civil War. He was a man of action and cool under fire.
Chernow claims over and over again was the finest memoir to come out of the Civil War and the final chapter of the book tells the story of how Grant wrote his memoirs with Mark Twain as the publisher at a desperate time when Grant was once again penniless and dying of cancer.
In the end of the book Chernow argues that the war was about slavery.
President Grant has been one of my favorite presidents ever since I read "The Man who Saved the Union." Chernow's account has less hero worship than that account but I suspect we get a much more accurate reading of who Grant really was: A functional alcoholic who was an amazing leader in war and peace who's achilles heel was his naive sense of trust.
The problem with that is that usually, where there's smoke, there's fire and he ended up backing a lot of the wrong horses.None of this changes the fact that he saved the Union, led America through one of it's most difficult times, and was an amazing leader and man.
At over 1074 pages, the book reads like a dream and was sad to see the book end. Grant is portrayed with all his triumphs and faults and like Robert Caro's LBJ bios-you actually feel like you know Grant and could converse with him about the Civil War, his Presidency and his family.A true masterpiece for any history buff and can not give this a higher recommendation.
Americans it seems cannot accept that these are complicated men, that maybe Grant's loyalty to his family was greater than his loyalty to civil rights.
Grant was not a particularly corrupt man.
Grant chose these men and perjured himself to defend them.I have read in Waugh's book (only skimmed it for now) that Grant was dismissed by the public when we were more racist because of his civil rights record.
That means it is either a great book or we no longer see Grant as a man.
Thank you to Netgalley for this book. This is the perfect adjunct to Grant's autobiography 'Memoirs'. The details and background that Chernow gives to fill out missing details in Grant's life is amazing. Chernow does give heavy emphasis to Grant's perceived or actual alcoholism. The author does use every possible word in the English language so be prepared with a dictionary while reading. As an example, he used the word 'adumbrating' which I at first thought was totally made up. It means 'foreshadowing' and I wonder why the author did not use it instead.
Chernow is my favorite biographer. I’ll read anything he writes. The subject is irrelevant.
Two thousand seventeen was a difficult year in many ways, and I chose to make it even more difficult by reading not one but two brick-like biographies of Grant: this one, and  American Ulysses  by Ronald White, both of which were supplied free of charge via those generous people at NetGalley. As fascinating as Grant is, this is not a life choice I can recommend to others in good conscience.Chernow is a rock star of Presidential historians, largely on the reflected glory he received when his biog
I especially enjoyed the chapter about Grant’s late life around-the-world tour, where he seemed to be having a grand old time being fussed over by the great and powerful.This biography, and White’s, are important attempts to re-evaluate Grant in the light of the attempt to wrestle the narrative of the Civil War of the traitorous racists who have monopolized it for far too long.
It may not be necessary to read either of 2017’s brick-like re-evaluations of Grant’s legacy, if fat books are not your thing.
Alexander Hamilton is a hard act to follow, but Chernow lives up to the expectations. Meticulously researched, the book is overflowing with details, insight, and analysis. This is backed up with extensive source notes. It took me almost three months to finish reading the biography: it's a book to be savored, not devoured. I've come away with a newfound respect for Ulysses, and highly recommend it. This book was generally provided by NetGalley.
I rummaged on my Civil War shelves and plucked Battle Cry of Freedom, which he (rightly) appears to cite more often than anything except perhaps Grant's Memoirs, and I also grabbed McPherson's book on Antietam, and I double-checked.
There's a Sherman quote that's supposed to be in a section in BCF, but the page number Chernow cites is actually in a section about the nurses of the ACW.
I like some of the analysis Chernow offers, but I would hate to see a newbie miseducated by using this title as an introduction to Grant or to the Civil War. As for me, I am going to strengthen my own foundation before I approach this tome, which must be read cautiously.
When this book came out, I noticed some scholars complained that Chernow said nothing new about Grant.
Historians have been revising Grant's image as president for a couple of decades.This is true, and the book is not perfect.
If you know a lot about Grant, then Chernow doesn't bring a lot of new material to the table.
However, what Chernow does do is bring a majestic biography that provides solid scholarship that reflects revisionism in Grant's presidency and the ability to reach mass audiences.
If you don't know a lot about Grant, then this book will give you a great tour of his life.
This is worth the time to read.
There was no man more popular from about 1865 when the Civil War ended until July 1885 when War hero and former President Ulysses S.
Taylor treated the defeated Mexicans with such graciousness that it left an imprint in Grants mind which he carried throughout his years.When the Civil War started President Lincoln correctly chose the most distinguished War General of the time to lead it George B.
He was elected president in 1868, the youngest man in the office to that date, Grant stabilized the post-war national economy, created the Department of Justice, used the military to enforce laws in the former Confederacy and prosecuted the Ku Klux Klan.
This is a tribute to the talent and mastery of Ron Chernow, and his ability to breathe new life into some of the most important, and in Grant and Alexander Hamilton’s cases, forgotten historic U.S. figures.Ask almost anyone about Ulysses S.
One thing that Chernow depicts so well is how Grant visualized the battle space, not just the battlefield, but the entire space of war.
From the siege of Vicksburg, to the Battle of Shiloh, to the surrender at Appomatox, Grant proved time and again that he was a methodical, ruthless, and brilliant military commander.2.) Yes, it's true, Ulysses S.
