https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/221327.Early_Autumn
I'm not really sure what to say about this Pulitzer Prize Winner. What I can say is that I really wonder how this book won the prize in the first place. By 100 pages I really wanted to stop reading the book all together but struggled on. First, there were too many characters, all who I didn't care about, at all. And secondly, to me, it seemed that there really wasn't much of story here. Not one that really kept my interest.
I don't think I had ever heard of this book or this author before I started my Pulitzer challenge, and I wonder why. It is my favorite Pulitzer winner to date. The writing and the story flowed effortlessly for me and I felt that in Olivia the author created a character who felt very real and timeless. I highlighted many passages and could relate to many of Olivia's thoughts and emotions despite the nearly 90 years which have elapsed since the writing of this book. I found it to be a truly brilliant work of literature.
I learned he was born in Mansfield, Ohio, and that he wrote several books including this one a Pulitzer Prize winner!
It was fascinating to me as Bromfield explored their emotional feelings as these two very different women who each face their own challenges.
(hide spoiler)]I enjoyed the simpleness of this book to focus on this snapshot into daily life: the emotions that any person could feel; the importance of one's place in society; finding love; the struggle of what to do in difficult predicaments; and battling preconceived notions of society and family.
But as I continued reading, more and more happened, and furthermore, “nothing happening” is central to the theme of the novel.
The book is about what happens when traditions become more important than people, when a family name (Pentland) means more than life itself.
At times I felt it was a bit heavy-handed, but I think that’s only because I was looking for it.
It almost has the same feeling as the peace one might have from “finally loving Big Brother.” I’m still processing it, but it wasn’t quite the cathartic ending I was aching for.
Yuck. There were a lot of good elements here, in the setting and the backstory, but once I knew Olivia would be sacrificed to endless Duty, I felt like it was pointless. And that happened pretty early in the book. The ending was weak, and the moral was dissatisfying and murky. Even the vocabulary was so limited, repetitive, and predictable. It seemed like a nondescript 1925 melodrama, and nothing that history can't easily leave behind.
Normally I am not a fan of early 20th century novels because they are very melodramatic, full of pathos and not very relatable. This was not the case here. The writing was lean and pleasant, the plot, while dated, was not exactly cliche. I found myself invested in the lives of the Pentlands in a way that doesn't happen often. Good book.
This book makes me hate books.I guess people back then liked books where all kinds of extraneous details were shoved in for no good reason. This book should have been 20 pages long.
Secrets de famille, traditions d’un autre âge, folie, hypocrisie, la bonne société américaine des années 20 est passée au peigne fin au travers du destin d’Olivia, résignée certes, mais encore assez jeune pour se permettre d’espérer autre chose pour sa fille, et peut-être pour elle-même.Un beau roman, pas très optimiste, un peu violent par son fatalisme.
I suspect happy people don't make especially good stories, and you ought not to expect many of them in this.
Stuck because they believed and lived as if family and appearances count for a lot more than happiness.The prose is interesting enough to tell the story without getting in the way of telling the story.
I've read books where good prose made up for a less than great story, but not here.
It's not necessarily a *great* story, but good enough.
If you're making your way through the Pulitzers, you'll be glad to have this one on the list.
Early Autumn by Louis BromfieldEarly Autumn is an insightful, excellent, thought provoking, sad Winn
Beautiful, kind Olivia Penfield lives a stifling existence with a soulless husband and his puritanical New England family.
Unable to stand a life with no joy or even diversion, she starts an affair—although it’s pretty tame by today’s standards—with a wealthy up and coming politician and they fall passionately in love.
Will Olivia leave the lies and oppression of her miserable in-laws, or will a sense of duty compel her to stay?
The plot meanders along until reaching a very predictable ending, and unlike other novels that tread this familiar ground (Edith Wharton’s brilliant Age of Innocence comes to mind) the writing is often plodding and old fashioned.
This book won the Pulitzer Prize, but I can't see why.
The characters are very flat, and it's too explicit that they just represent ideas.
There is this old New England family, representing a conventional but hypocritical way of life.
Everyone is unhappy, whether a martyr to tradition although she gets no pleasure from it, or a person who flouts tradition out of bitterness and gets no pleasure out of that.
The only son and heir was sickly and died, barely even a metaphor for the idea that his aristocratic way of life has, duh, died out.
(Even the unconventionality in this book is conventional.)
I liked this book for its subtle presentation of wisdom.
Very good discriptions of thoughts and feelings of one standing at middle age looking at lost opportunities of youth vs.
stagnation of status quo as the future.
"It was because they possessed a curious, indefinable solidity that the others at Pentlands all lacked, and a certain fire and vitality.
Neither blood, nor circumstance, nor tradition, nor wealth, had made life for them an atrophied, empty affair, in which there was no need for effort, for struggle, for combat.
They had not been lost in a haze of transcendental maunderings.
She was one of John Pentland's dead, who lived by watching others live."
Fasti ormai trascorsi, complice la malattia dell'unico erede maschio rimasto alla dinastia.Tre sono gli eventi che sconvolgeranno la monotona vita di Olivia: il ritorno di Sabine, cugina di famiglia dei Pentland, donna libera, affascinante e anticonformista; l'innamoramento nei confronti dell'irlandese O'Hara; il ritrovamento di alcune vecchie lettere che portano alla luce un grosso scandalo sepolto nel passato della famiglia, che ribalta letteralmente le prospettive.Olivia, pur non essendo una Pentland di sangue, è la spina dorsale della famiglia: donna pacata ma decisa, è attorno a lei che la narrazione ruota.
I tried to read this for the A-Z classics challenge that I'm doing but I'm putting this aside to try other books for the challenge and to help clear my book shelves.
Maybe I just don't get the books that win the Pulitzer prize.
So far the books I read that won the Pulitzer, I haven't really enjoyed but I've heard so many good things about the prize that I'll still attempt to read more of these books in the future.
I might give this another chance later but now is just not the time for me for this book.
This book was kind of a slow start, which many older, literary books are but it surely made up for last time in the last half of the book. I appreciated that I could get to know the characters well and understand the themes before jumping in with two feet. I kept thinking about the concept of having a wild, passionate nature balanced with the society people are brought up in and recognize as right and correct. And how wrong this can sometimes be. I can see why this won the Pulitzer.
Nice little book. Nothing earth-shattering about the storyline. It's basically about the turn of the 20th century societal transformation from staid New England colonial countryside elites to a new order. It's what I'd call a less impressive Edith Wharton novel with strong hints of an Americanized Jane Austin style of story. Fairly predictable melodrama around gendered old money society and familial relations. Worthy of the Pulitzer? Probably. But a rather forgettable winner.
La famiglia Pentland cerca di risollevare le sue sorti puntando ad un buon matrimonio per la giovane Sybil figlia di Olivia e di Anson Pentland. Siamo nel New England avvolti nel desiderio di puritanesimo e di bell’apparire. Sono forti le descrizioni di un paesaggio intatto e selvaggio, così come sono pure le nuove sensazioni che man mano che l’autunno si avvicina vanno a instillarsi nei cuori di Sybil e Olivia. Amore e desiderio di riscatto. Qualcuno ce la farà.
This is the story of a wealthy New England family who can trace their family back to Revolutionary times and all of the drama and skeletons in their closet. The story of a wealthy family and their tribulations seems to be a common theme from books written in the early twentieth century, of which I've read several and I don't think I've really enjoyed any of them. This was a well written book but fairly boring.
This is an interesting book centering on a wealthy family in the 1920's. It delves into the themes of love, marriage, hypocrisy and honor. The heroine of the story is approaching her fortieth birthday and unhappiness in her life sparks a type of mid-life crisis. I found the characters believable considering the setting. They mores discussed are somewhat dated but still manage to deliver messages that are relevant.
Reading an older author like Bromfield has made me appreciate that many of today's authors lack depth and literary skill in their writing. This novel is both a sad story and a satire. The characters are all finely drawn real people who live in a world that any of us might inhabit. I highly recommend this book if you would like to read some high quality fiction.
2.5 stars
This novel tells the story of the very wealthy Pentland family that is settled in New England and what happens when a member of their family returns to town after a long absence.
Now she has returned with an 18 year old daughter and a strong independent spirit that defies Pentland tradition.
Her arrival shakes things up, especially the life of Olivia Pentland who married into the family and is approaching her 4oth birthday.Although I felt that the beginning of the book was a tad slow, it soon grabbed my interest completely and I couldn't put it down.
Even though this story was written 90 years ago, I feel like it is just as relevant today.
La stasi e l’impossibilità del cambiamento dominano la vita di Olivia, fin quando non compare sulla scena l’irlandese O’Hara, che le sconvolgerà la vita a tal punto da dover rivedere le proprie priorità e ricominciare a sperare nella possibilità dell’amore e della felicità.Il romanzo è pieno di cliché, a partire dal modo in cui è ritratta la società, tipico della narrativa borghese degli anni Trenta, e dalla presenza del leitmotiv della donna costretta ad un matrimonio d’interesse che, ad un certo punto della sua vita, decide di perdersi tra le braccia di un amante.
The story recounts the lives of the Pentlands in post World War I Durham during late summer and early fall, mostly from the point of view of Olivia, the 40 year old wife of Anson Pentland.There are unwelcome changes to the neighborhood and to the lives of the Pentlands, coming in the form of Sabine Callender, sister of Anson, who is the  black sheep of the family, returning to Pentlands after a scandalous 20 year absence and in Michael O Hara, a self-made Irishman who has risen to wealth and political prominence--but who is definitely not socially acceptable.
Tragedies interrupt the placid existence at Pentlands, as the different generations of Pentlands react to these events in their own ways.[return][return]The book has no real plot as such but rather it is an examination of the lives of the very rich who claim distinction through family during the early 20th century.
Life for society women in the 1920s had its own constraints, the image of "family" was stronger than "self," and the idea of a woman's freedom had yet to be born.In "Early Autumn," the Pulitzer Prize winner of 1927, we have the story of a family, its place in the society of the times and the rigid rules for family members who were almost the aristocracy of New England.The story opens with the celebration of Olivia Pentland's eighteen-year-old daughter, Sybil, who is being introduced into Boston society.
It tells the story of Olivia Pentland, a wife and mother living in Massachusetts.
Olivia is unhappy; her husband ignores her and she feels that she is not really living life.
Sabine has lived the life that Olivia has not.
Suddenly Olivia's ordered life is thrown into chaos, and for the first time she seriously considers if it is more important to follow the strict constraints of being a Pentland or to live life to the fullest.I must say that one of my weaknesses is books about depressed women in crisis.
The story made the reader believe it would be desirable and perhaps even noble for Olivia to abandon the line of pride and mirage she lived in and live for herself but I appreciated the path she chose and thought her choice to not abandon the promise she made to her beloved father-in-law and the commitment she made to her husband although her marriage was less than ideal proved her a strong woman which was what the people in her life continually gave her credit for.
The family history almost forced the living to live a lie.
The first consists of rigid, conservative, and wealthy family members – whose minister is significantly characterized as being the “Apostle to the Genteel.” Maintaining wealth and status has replaced the religious fervor of their industrious forefathers.
The novel can be characterized as a morality tale pitting moral responsibility with romantic philosophy, perhaps not unlike that found in Goethe’s “The Sorrows of Young Werther” or Tolstoy’s “Anna Karenina.” It was an interesting tale, though I found the characters to be a bit too predictable, even shallow, to be all-together believable.
It's a story about a New England family who has become more wealthy through the centuries, but "dessicated" as people, so that they keep carrying on, but life moves more like a protected dream than real life.
I found it interesting that the blurb on the back of the book indicated that Sabine Callendar was the main character but it turned out that she wasn't.
Olivia has an important choice to make in the book and this is the main plot of the story and, even though it is predictable what she will choose, she's still very interesting and has a fair amount of depth.
