https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112872.A_Light_in_the_Window
Someone commented that these are the types of books which little old ladies read when they feel like they can put their collective noses into other people's affairs.
While Jan Karon has a huge following, no doubt composed in part of little old ladies, these stories are anything but what they appear to be on the outside.
It takes a while to become used to reading these, especially when you are expecting something exciting and dangerous, but what you end up with is that people are real and they solve their issues in very real ways.
Had you asked me I would never have thought I'd be reading a series of books like this one.
(Not macho, you know).
This is the story of a middle aged (maybe late middle-age?) clergyman in a small town.
Again I came over these when i was listening to books and reading whatever I could get my hands on it seemed and I was surprised how involving these were.
I like most of these and that truly surprised me.Timothy and the other characters here will I believe appeal to a wide audience.
But it's every bit as charming and engrossing as all ...more I so enjoyed this book.
Although its main character is an Episcopalian priest named Father Tim, it is never preachy about religion.
Although its main character is an Episcopalian priest named Father Tim, it is never preachy about religion.
But it's every bit as charming and engrossing as all the other books I gave five stars to.
I think it's simply impossible to read it and not fall in love with the characters.
I think Father Tim took too much time pondering where the relationship was headed but still, all's well that ends well.
This is a tender book, a romance in the best, most elevated sense of the word.
Father Tim and Cynthia's love for each other is expressed; but what to do about it is one of the conflicts of the story.
Chapter Seven, letters written to each other, is pure gold.
Light illuminates this book — glowing in the window, flickering in the fire, falling on the wood floor, entering the room with Puny, guiding a searching man, shining at the Lord's Chapel, infusing the valley, warming Timothy and Cynthia.
It is a wondrous book to read when winter doldrums and spring-snow dim the natural light.
The whole time I was reading this, I just kept thinking in the back of my mind, "which celebrities would I cast as these two main characters/" I just kept thinking Carroll O'Conner (Archie Bunker) and Laura Bush as Cynthia.
I tried to listen to these books again on tape, and write all of the characters down, but there are so many I just couldn't.
Oh, by the way, after I read the first book I sent an e-mail to Jan and she started me up with a nesletter being sent to my home, about her writing and other things.
This one is my least favorite of the Mitford books (at least the original nine), although I still adore it. It just feels less like coming home and more like a stop on the way. That is not a bad thing, at all! I still absolutely recommend this series...and this book...this particular installment simply feels a little bit melodramatic at times. That may simply be my opinion, however. The third one is one of my all-time favorite books, so I can't wait to get to that one!
What I learned from this book: It's me, not you.
I am the one who is unable to find any sort of humor in innocent misunderstandings or mistaken identities.
(This also explains why I'm not a fan of French farce.) I have proven to myself this year that I am indeed capable of enjoying stories that don't involve other-worldly creatures or kick-butt crime-solving or alternate realities (those would be the Maisie Dobbs books and The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society), but I find myself unable to commit to you, dear Mitfordians.Again, please forgive me.
Because you are a decent, hard-working and pleasant story.
I'm going to write the same thing for the entire series.
Many find the series feel good, and there are some sparkles of true conflict here and there, but mostly it's about the mundane daily plight of a vicar who finds love later in life and saves people - emotionally and physically.
If you like the first in the series, keep reading because you will be comforted by the characters and will want to see who is added to the "family." This reads like it was made for a TV series, which I am surprised it has not been made into for PBS yet!What I like about this series is that it doesn't try to be anything it is not; that in itself makes it charming, and if you want to read a simple, feel good, clean series, then this is it.
It was good to reconnect with the characters in this quaint town.
I like how the characters' stories continue to wind together and new relations are discovered plus the inclusion of one of two outsiders to keep the story going.
I was also happier reading this story since it focused on only a few of the characters and did not have as much character introductions, as the first book did.
Made it much easier to follow the book.
I am looking forward to reading more in the storyline and to continue to see the evolving characters!
All the little eccentricities and intricacies of small town American life are here again, from the grocery store to the local pastry shop.
It reminds you, if you let yourself be reminded, of what is truly important in life and how even the small things take on a different perspective if you have your priorities in order.
I highly recommend “A Light in the Window” and the series as a whole and hope you will check them out, or come back for a second or third visit.
I just finished my third reading of this wonderful book. Jan Karon's 'Mitford ' series of books are some of the best in the planet. Never do they fail to inspire and console me, not to mention a thorough blessing! 'Lord, take this fear and dash it. Rebuke the enemy who is the creator of all fear, and give me the grace to be the man you've called me to be, no matter what lies in store.'Would that I could have the heart of Father Tim!Treasures, these books are, pure and simple!
These books are really pretty terrible.
3.5 starsEnjoyable, and while I didn't quite like it as much as first Mitford installment, it was still full of eccentric characters and nice storylines, plus it doesn't raise one's blood pressure.
John McDonough is Father Tim. He has narrated all of the Mitford series books and is a treasure.
Thus, just as listening to another story of Mitford is enhanced by its familiarity so hearing John McDonough's narration stirs feelings of comfort and recognition.
McDonough describes his first reading of a book as being ' like the first listening of a piece of music.' 'You have to be completely free,' he said.
. 'As you read and think about the piece, you hear voices, and it starts to take on life.' How fortunate for all of us!
Have looked forward to reading this since finishing At Home in Mitford.
Do you find yourself smiling when you read this series?
Now that's a good read :-) This second in the Mitford series by Jan Karon did not disappoint.
There's really nothing to say about the book, other than I highly recommend that you read it, if you haven't already.
I especially enjoyed the description and history of Miss Sadie's ballroom ceiling.This book is packed with good stuff about Father Tim and the ways he cares for people.
That is a good part of what makes this a great book.
In the second book of the Father Tim series, Father Tim is returning from a summer in Sligo.
Upon his return he sees that he really has not missed much as far the life in Mitford goes.
Father Tim meets Edith Mallory, a very wealthy widow, who is trying to catch him with her wonderful cooking ability.
But, Father TIm is only interested in Cynthia, his neighbor.Add to this mix, his cousin Meg who decides to move into the rectory and again Father Tim finds himself pastoring others.
I don't like saying good-bye to Mitford. It's a good thing there are so many of them.
Truthfully it deserves 3.5 stars in my opinion. It's true, these books don't have a ground-shaking plot. However, they are sweet, charming, and hilarious. Father Tim is one of my very favorite fictional characters ever created. He is so much like me. I'm so glad he finally ended up with what he deserved.Good book and lovely writing!
This is the second book in what I like to think is the most gentle, comforting read.
Sometimes it seems a little too simple and comforting as the lives of the people in small town Mitford are brought out.
The most scandelous event that takes place may be the plight of poor father Tim as the newest widow in town sets her sights on the unwilling man.
It's the kind of book that gives your mind a rest, a laugh, and inspiration for life all at the same time.
This story builds on the previous one, showing the progress of Father Tim's relationship with his neighbor.
Again, this series is character-driven so it is slower paced, but the reader gets to know the town and the townspeople and care about their daily lives.
If Mitford, NC weren't fictional, I'd live there.
If you're action-driven, this series isn't for you.
If you can read just about anything, then I recommend this series (9 books if I'm not mistaken), perhaps between more adventurous books.
Jan Karon has a witty, fun voice, and her characters are loveable and so very human.
You'll have to read the books to understand.
Father Tim is the rector of Mitford, a small town packed with personality.
The recently widowed Edith Mallory has got her sights set on him, confirmed bachelor that he is, as her next conquest.
Meanwhile, his attempts at a relationship with his lovely neighbor Cynthia seem to be slowly gaining ground.
And that's just his personal life!
He's got his 12-year-old foster child, Dooley, to look after, a church building project, parishioners to counsel, and of course, the weekly sermon to write.
Karon's style reminds me of L.M. Montgomery's Anne books: heartwarming stories of everyday people facing the problems of their lives with hope and humor.
I had a really hard time getting into this book. I think part of the problem was that I started by listening to the audio CDs while I was driving. The way Jan Karon writes doesn't lend itself to distractions. You end up missing the essence of the story. So, I started reading the paperback and quickly got back into the story.I enjoyed Timothy and Cynthia's letters. I was a little disappointed that book had been leading up to some large events, and then the events were covered briefly. I will definitely continue to read more of the series.
I have delayed reading this series until I retired and that was back in 2011 but I have been ill and not able to get out to the library for more reading materials so I looked at my emergency reading supply and decided now is the time to read this series.
I wanted to savor this series and not be limited to how fast can i read this series so I have taken my time reading the second book in this series and it has been a delightful read and the time was well spent visiting Mitford!
ok so i totally slammed the first book in this series.
the 3 books that followed were gifts, so i continued to read them as i really had nothing else to read and was too lazy to go to the library and too cheap to go to the bookstore.
i've also decided to read the books that i actually own before checking out anymore.
this second book was pretty good- easy easy reading- and if you are a praying/bible reading person, and slack off in the daily devotional department, the mitford books have a great message.
some of the books are heavier on the bible verse quoting than others.
I didn't get into it right away, but after a few chapters I loved it.
After reading the first book, it had a feeling almost like coming home again.
I realized I had missed Miss Sadie, Cynthia, Father Tim, Dooley...
and even that crazy lady that wears army boots all the time.
Edith was a colorful and laugh-out-loud addition to the whole crazy lot of them.
This book made me smile,laugh out loud, and even stop and think a few times.
Although it is still mostly a book about everyday life, it kept a steadier pace than the first book.
I'm definitely reading the next one in the series!
I love this series! I love how the author describes her characters so well! I've heard that some people feel that the books are boring and lacking in action but to me it is quite the opposite. The pages are filled with small town "action"! I laughed out loud more than once as I read this one. I feel so at home reading these books, almost as if I could visit Mitford and feel right at home with Father Tim, Miss Sadie, etc.
I really liked this book. It was pretty funny and very clean. I love all of the books that I have read by Jan Karon because they are clean and funny. Plus, they are adult fiction! I am reading the third in the series now. They are about a small town and all of the funny things that happen there.
I have read this book before and really enjoy the recounting of small town life. I like the way the author makes the characters human. I like how they don't always get it perfect. I also like how she recounts the thoughts they have in their heads. I did think that the Edith Mallory parts of the story were a bit too much.
Light reading and a very feel good book that I really enjoyed. Though the characters are believable this is kind of book that I can read in bed and go to sleep in peace. I'm not kept awake by too many complications that I'm afraid won't turn out good. There is a lot of humor and wisdom in this series.
Another gem, in the Mitford series, by Jan Karon! These books are meant to be read while sipping a cup of hot tea while curled up in a comfy chair. The characters are quirky, endearing, at times hilarious, and simply loveable!
