https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/571420.Jubilee
Later as an adult she spent years researching the pre- and post-war eras, various dialects, battles and famous personages, family history, etc., in order to write Jubilee.It is historical fiction but it is based primarily on the life of one very strong and courageous woman (Vyry, short for Elvira) who lived through one of the most difficult times in history.
Vyry gives a beautiful explanation to her son, Jim, about how when we hold on to anger and hatred our hearts become smaller, cold and hard.
I wish I had known Vyry.The edition I purchased contains some additional readings at the end which I have not read at this time.
I feel like I lived through all of Vyry's horrors and joys with her and she will always be someone whose example of fortitude I will remind myself of when I experience horror of my own.The writing is not ornate, not overly complex.
It's written in a style completely appropriate for the subject matter and characters.
Honestly, I feel like it's one of those book that can hardly be critiqued.
The subject matter and heroine are so utterly harrowing that pointing out any flaws outside of that would appears very petty.Unequivocally one of my favorite books of all time, I think.
It's the only one that I've read which captures the antebellum era, civil war, and the reconstruction period.
It must have felt overwhelming to be given your rights (vote, hold office, fair trail), and then for it to be taken away once more, and then be plunged back into another period of torment and terror, but KKK and lynching this time around instead of slavery.Although I like how the story was laid out and told, I felt quite detached from the main character.
The story follows the Character of Vyry, who was born to a slave mistress and a white planter.
Imagine waking up each morning, knowing that your life was not yours to live, that you were under someone else's control.
Imagine if you tried to "quit" this job, you would be whipped mercilessly.For Elvira "Vyry" Brown, this wasn't anything to imagine, it was her life.
The story, written by Vyry's great-granddaughter Margaret Walker, takes us from her birth, through her life as a slave, to her eventual freedom.
Having read other autobiographies about this time, I found that Margaret Walker is a top storyteller in this genre.
By the time I finished this book, I had no doubt about the character of Vyry Brown.
I picked up Jubilee at a time when I was horribly sick from the effects of toxic mold.
Since toxic mold spits out toxins I became chemically sensitive.
I had nothing but a crock pot and four pieces of organic clothing fiercely wondering how I was going to survive in a toxic world.
I was attracted to Jubilee and it saved me from collapsing into my own life.
I don't want to give it away but it is a must read for anyone wanting to be inspired and learn appreciation.
I carried it in my purse and read it at every opportunity.
This was an excellent novel that author Margaret Walker developed depicting the pre and post antebellum life of a mulatto woman living in the South. Walker does an amazing job presenting the reader with the main character Vyry, who is born a slave and eventually experiences freedom after the conclusion of the Civil War. Vyry is shown as a strong willed woman with unwavering integrity, faith, and ambition. This book is definitely a classic within African American literature, which continues to reach and inspire many readers.
one of my historic triggers is the time of reconstruction, this reading confirms it, the time where the horrors of the present-day took shape, indentured servitude perpetuated through debt bondage and cropping for shares, all that bureaucratic ugliness that reveals the amount of irrationality required for securing the institutions of the rational.
the beauty of walker's writing made itself clearer to me near the end with the vast passages of dialogue, the sheer beauty of black english put to the project of 'working through' the many horrors of american life.
i don't know where the the author's loyalties lie, and it is quietly remarkable that is a testament to the work that for some reason it doesn't seem to matter.
I'm rating this one 3,5 stars!Here's the Live show discussion I had with Danielle from OneSmallPaw and Tatiana from Musical Tati. Enjoy and let me know what you thought of Jubilee. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qozie...
Why has it taken fifty years for me to find this excellent historical novel? It's the reverse side of Gone with the Wind, and oh, so much better. (I am not a fan of GwtW.)
Jubilee holds the true story of Vyry, the daughter of a plantation owner and his slave mistress.
What made this book one of my new favorites is how well written it is...a combination of history that I never knew and this personal story of a great heroine.
She refuses to judge or hate but remains strong in the face of injustice.
One important side note is how the author (the great grandaughter of Vyry) does not write a one sided story (which would be understandable)...
there is a story of pain for the plantation owners and the people of the South too.
Still, Vyry remains triumphant.
I am so glad I got to read it and I feel it is a great choice for ap us history summer reading as it was mine.
I feel it is an accomplishment in history to have such an account of that time period's history not just from the slave's vantage but others as well.
It is so nice to have a real account of what people went through and what the times were really like as that is not often addressed in class as the general facts of slavery and the civil war are instilled.
I think it exposes people to the truth and that is always invaluable.
It is split into three parts: Antebellum, Civil War, and Reconstruction.
In the middle part, the author assumes the reader is unaware of the specifics of the Civil War and provides a great deal of narrative context, which may or may not be a good thing, depending on how much you already know.In documenting the oral history of her family, supplemented by research, the author has created an engrossing story with an authentic flavor.
Recommended to those interested in African American history or what life was like in the American south before, during, and after the Civil War. As may be expected in a novel relating the horrors of slavery, it contains graphic violence and racism.
This was beautiful and horribly sad, I love Vyry and literally all that she stands for and believes. I had to read this for history but honestly please read this, it's pretty freaking good
This is an excellent book everyone should read, especially students as part of their history courses.
I loved Vyry, the main character.
She's strong and has a good heart, despite all the strife she faced.
Since this book is about slavery and the Civil War it contains some violence and passages that are difficult to read.
Obviously, I'm very familiar with how slaves were treated but that didn't prevent me from being shocked at what I read.
I will never understand how people could treat other people with such outright hate and violence!
4.5 stars - A stunning portrayal of a mid 18th century slave in south Georgia.
Vyry is the fictional embodiment of Margaret Walker's own great-grandmother, and the story of Vyry is one that readers will remember for a long time.
Vyry is no less fiery than Scarlet O'Hara and her story is much more poignant since her life as a slave and as a black woman in the post-civil war South was exceedingly difficult.
Her daily trials are beyond the comprehension of most of today's readers.
I highly recommend this wonderful piece of historical fiction.
There was a certain dryness to the narrative which is why I didn't give it a full 5 star rating, but I'm not sure that is fair. I don't believe the text was written as a character piece. It is, instead, a well researched look at the Antebellum, Civil War, and Reconstruction periods and how that did and perhaps does affect us as individuals and as a nation. It will and should get you thinking. I can see myself recommending this book and reading it again in the future.4.5 / 5 stars
This is a solid example of great story-telling. This novel, written in 1966, is the combined result of the author's 30 years of research of the ante-bellum years, the Civil War, Reconstruction, and her own great-grandmother's oral history passed down through her family. If you love historical fiction, great story-telling or thought-provoking novels, you will probably love this book.
Starting around 1835 the book follows Vyry's life through Dred Scott, Lincoln's election and the forming of the Confederacy, and the Civil War which ultimately takes the lives of all but one of the Dutton family, a daughter who is finally taken off the plantation, an act that leaves Vyry feeling that she can finally abandon the plantation and try to live for herself.During these violent years Vyry falls in love with a free black man named Randall Ware, He fathers two of her children and promises that he'll get enough money to buy her freedom or free her through marriage.
a strongly affecting novel, and an important entry in the slave narrative canon.
i was really taken in to this story - walker did a great job bringing this destructive time to life once again.
my only small issue with the book came nearing the end, when the style shifted from storytelling feel, to a more sermon-y presentation.
i feel as though walker did such a strong job conveying the horrors of these years, and the nearly insurmountable odds face by black survivors, that the switch to telling and not showing disrupted the flow of the novel.
but this is a minor quibble in this big story.
Absolutely wonderful.
The story, the characters, the narration (I listened on Audible)- just everything.
If you want a realistic portrayal of the South before, during, and after the civil war, look no further.
As romantic as Gone With the Wind is, it doesn’t compare to how real, heart wrenching, and spiritual Jubilee is.
And it’s based on the life of the author’s great grandmother!
Here is a link to a great review: http://herstorynovels.com/jubilee-mar...Amazing amazing amazing.
This is a testament to the spirit, strength, and endurance of African Americans and of women in addition to being such a wonderful memorial to the author’s great grandmother.
I would give it 10 stars if I could. Gone with the Wind from the slave perspective. Written over fifty years ago, it only showed its age over the last couple of chapters.
Christmas at the Big House is dawn to nightime toil in a steaming kitchen; Young Marster Going Off to War anticipates the painful and wonderful idea of a rumor called Freedom; Sherman's terrible ride means the ""Year of Jubillo,"" and the Dispersion means a beginning rather than an end.
As a young woman, mother of two and presumably widow of Randall Ware, a proud freeman, Vyry marries Innes and attempts to lead the hardworking, decorous life of a free woman after the war.
Randall returns, and to Vyry's joy, takes their son to educate him for freedom.
I found it through 'Recommendations' right here on Goodreads, and I'm so glad I did!The book is centered around Vyry, a mulatto slave on a large cotton plantation in Georgia.
We get to know her and her life before the Civil War, and working in the big house throughout the war years, and beyond.
The book spans Vyry's life through many years.
Even after freedom, her life was far from easy.I won't get into the details here because it would only spoil the book for those who have not read it yet.
More than the picture of slavery presented in this book, I appreciate the picture of reconstruction.
Also the portrayal of Northern Whites as rabidly racist as their southern counterparts is captured vividly.The only real issue I have is the end when Vyry has a long speech about 'good white folk', forgiveness and her reliance on Christianity and God. I don't support Respectability Politics.
The bible supports slavery that's enough for me to know the religion ain't for the descendants of enslaved peoples.
I was ok until the end.
She was real and admirable in the way she dealt with her struggles about who she was and how she was called to live her life.
I appreciated the real, historically accurate conflicts that were depicted both between whites and blacks, as well as within the black community in the South.
To me, that's a sign that a book will challenge students to think, and isn't that what we want to do?
History isn't always comfortable.
Personally, I was awestruck by Vyry's ability to keep her faith and to choose a life of love, despite the oppression she had suffered.
I always heard about slavery and the taria let things that happened but never had read anything that went in to details about peoples life storys.
There were many thingS done that were cruel but to be honest the thing that made me feel the most pain was the way women were treated.
Their owners raping them, selling the kids and babies of this people, and over all treating them like they don't matter.
This book is sad but a good book to learn about the past I am glad I have read it.
This was a reread for me, but I hadn't read it since junior high school.
It's no less powerful than it was then.
I'll reread Gone with the Wind at some point, too, but it won't provide as full (or accurate) a picture of slave life before the Civil War or life for free African Americans after the war as this book does.
Margaret Walker could not have honored her great-grandmother more than by writing her story in this book.
This book should be assigned reading alongside of, or in place of, Margaret Mitchell's tome.

A fasinating story - the author took what she knew of her great-grandmother born of a white plantation owner and a black slave who was really his mistress a sense. She married a black free man but then the Civil War erupted and years went by before she saw him again.Not just did she develop a novel from this but all the research she did of that time really made me feel that this could in fact have been the biography of this strong, upright woman.
My all time favorite book. It was assigned reading when I was a Junior in High School. Absolutely fell in love with this book. My brother who is a Junior now is required to read the book as well. I recently read it again when I dug it out of the box for him. I fell in love with the book all over. It is rather thick but such a easy read. Once you start you just cant stop.
