https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/471808.A_Certain_Smile
This is a sweet little novel about a young girl's willing rush into love with a married man despite knowing that peril awaits, but not experienced enough to know the full consequences of heartbreak.
There's a purity to this that is both artful and artless, and because it succeeds at what it sets out to do, I'm willing to overlook its faults.
The book is about a brief affair; it should be viewed as a lovely, fleeting wisp, like a firefly in a summer dusk.
In the spirit of the book, I'm keeping it short and sweet.
I loved this.
Пруст пише: „Голяма рядкост е едно щастие да кацне тъкмо върху желанието, което го е призовало.“ А миналата нощ това се бе случило, когато се бях доближила до лицето на Люк, желано в продължение на цяла седмица, и от съвпадението ми бе призляло, може би просто поради внезапното отпадане на пустотата, от която иначе животът ми бе изтъкан. Пустота, породена от чувството, че животът ми се разминава с мен. А в онзи миг като никога бях изпитала усещането, че най-сетне се докосвам до своя живот, и то до върховната му точка.
Boredom captured and brought to life in a book. Bored girl finds bored married man, has affair, who cares if anyone is hurt? Story of a pointless relationship written reasonably well, but the story lacks a soul. If anyone is living this way I am truly sorry.
Dominique has a lot to learn about love.She was young and naive and thought she knew how to play the game.Dominique thought she understood the rules.But she didn't!This short novella of young love and growing up!'I was a woman, and I had loved a man. It was a simple story; there was nothing to make a fuss about.'
As short and sharp as her first novel, Bonjour Tristesse, Françoise Sagan's second (published a year later) is the story of a young woman's affair with an older man, and her subsequent, inevitable, heartbreak.
I wasn't wowed by this like I was by Bonjour Tristesse, perhaps because the tone and mood of both books is so similar, as are some details; elements of Dominique's relationship with Bertrand, and with Luc and his wife Françoise, clearly echo Cécile's with Cyril, her father and Anne.
Paríž náležal mne.
Paríž náležal ľuďom bez škrupúľ, bezočivcom, to som vždy pociťovala, ale bolestne, pretože mne bezočivosť chýbala.
Tentoraz to bolo mesto, moje krásne, zlaté, odhodlané mesto, mesto, ,ktoré sa nedalo ošudiťʽ.
V pochabej blaženosti som mala pocit, že dochádzam k oveľa jasnejšej pravde, než sú tie úbohé poprežúvané pravdy mojich smútkov.“ Toto nie je žiadna citová dráma, len romanca parížskej študentky so starším ženatým mužom.
Saganová ju napísala, keď mala len 20-rokov po svojom slávnom debute Dobrý deň smútok.
Veľmi dobré čítanie.„Zase mi raz bolo po dlhom čase veľmi dobre samej so sebou.
Last summer, I read and adored Bonjour Tristesse, Françoise Sagan’s seminal novella about love, jealousy and desire – in essence, the games a young girl plays with other people’s emotions.
This year I was keen to read her follow-up, the 1956 novella, A Certain Smile – this time in the Irene Ash translation which was rushed out in the same year.
(You can read my additional post about Heather Lloyd’s recent translation of Bonjour Tristesse here).
In summary, A Certain Smile is the bittersweet story of a young girl’s ill-fated love affair with an older married man, one that epitomises the emotions of youth complete with all their intensity and confusion.
This title is generally better known for the 1958 English-language film version with the accompanying title song crooned by Johnny Mathis. The original French-language novel is the short, bittersweet story of a doomed affair that nicely showcases Françoise Sagan’s signature talent for describing the confused and tumultuous emotions of young girls. Dominique, the first-person narrator, is a law student at the Sorbonne who suffers from a particularly serious case of ennui. Everything seems to bor
The original French-language novel is the short, bittersweet story of a doomed affair that nicely showcases Françoise Sagan’s signature talent for describing the confused and tumultuous emotions of young girls.
Her university studies: Boring.
When Bertrand takes her to meet his uncle, Luc, and aunt Françoise, Dominique hesitates to act on the obvious chemistry between her and Luc, because, after all, she is involved with Bertrand, and Françoise is so motherly and completely kind.
After an idyllic two weeks together in Cannes, Dominique and Luc part and can snatch only isolated moments together in the next few months.
Not wanting to hurt either Bertrand or Francoise - with whom she forges a close friendship - Dominique nevertheless begins a love affair with Luc - though he tells her that he will never love her - and they spend two weeks in Cannes enjoying each other.
When they return and Luc goes back to his old life, Dominique realises she is in love with him and becomes consumed by sadness, which is not helped by her ongoing friendship with Francoise.
I enjoyed the politics of the friendships and how they each dealt with the thought of life becoming boring, though my favourite character was Francoise (the most level-headed of them all).
📍A Certain Smile, the novella written by well-known French author, Francoise Sagan, tells the story of a love affair between a young woman and her boy friend's uncle.
While the young woman, still a student in Sorbonne, is confused about her feelings for her boyfriend, the unexpected arrival of her boyfriend's experiences uncle makes her life quite complicated.
📍A thing that is worthy to notice in the story, is the different attitudes young and old people hold when it comes to have an affair.
Such a short novel and it took me such a long time to read it. I found it quite boring and predictable. Maybe I should have read it when I was 20 or so, I think I would have liked it more. I read "Bonjour tristesse" when I was 18 and I liked it a lot. Perhaps there is an age for every novel and "A Certain Smile" is for 20 year-olds. I don't know. The idea is that, except for the occasionally poetic language, this book didn't transmit much.
I don't often read French romance novels of the 1950s, but when I do, it's always Francoise Sagan.
It's an amateur work written by a 21 girl in two-month period and that's all, I can't evaluate its language but if the translator was fair in her translation so it's a very modest artless prose.
This is my second Francoise Sagan book, and as with the first one (Bonjour tristesse) I enjoyed the writing, it just flows and seems effortless, but the characters are a different story… they have no depth, they are just cardboard people.
We would assume that it’s not the same case with the main character; she should stand out, right?
The only thing making her “stand out” is that she is having an affair with an older man.
Great job.
The main character, Dominique, is bored, her friend and boyfriend are boring people, her life is boring, and nothing interests her.
The main character this time is a student at the Sorbonne who does the very French thing of having an affair with her boyfriend's uncle, a man much older than she is.
You feel what she feels and that is one of the few things I ask of good writing.Another French touch is the older man's wife, who befriends the young woman as a method of containing her and recovering the husband from his philandering ways.
In the 1958 movie, Joan Fontaine plays the wife while Johnny Mathis appears as himself singing the song, "A Certain Smile," while the two couples are out for the evening.
Любов, какво друго!
Of course, a later reading shows up both its flaws and its features and the passage of time helps to put it in context.Sagan, who shot to fame at 18 after the publication of Bonjour Tristesse, seems totally preoccupied with love and relationships.
Part Three shows just how immature and self-deluding Dominique really is - of course she's fallen madly in love with Luc, a casual, self-absorbed man, who probably cheats on his wife every business trip away from home.
However, in Sagan's work, there is still that beautiful evocation of feelings and fleeting uncertainties in her characters' lives and for that, one forgives her the flaws.
Sparsely written.
This purports to explore a grand passion, but I didn’t really feel either character was particularly passionate.
Selfish, bored and inherently self-destructive in behaviour they both seem narcissistic in their approach to relationships.Dominique is a young girl on the brink of adulthood.
She seems to be moving outside her usual social circles.
She definitely invests more in the relationship than he does.
Ultimately, neither seems happy with the situation.Wonder if reading Bonjour Tristesse first would have helped, but this felt like a perfunctory account rather than a tender exploration of love.
Françoise Sagan's A Certain Smile is a delightful novel about a young woman who falls in love with her boyfriend's married uncle.
Dominique is walking on glass, as she likes and respects her lover Luc's wife, Francoise.
When Luc and Dominique return to Paris, the relationship comes unglued; and Dominique must begin to put together a life without this grand romance with an older man.The elfin Sagan knows how to write a good novel.
I will try to add more of her work to my reading list -- though Bonjour Tristesse and A Certain Smile are her most frequently read works.
Всъщност да живееш, означаваше да бъдеш възможно най-доволен. А това и бездруго не беше лесно.. . . в края на краищата, поне докато човек е млад, в дългото мошеничество, каквото е животът, нищо не изглежда по-отчаяно желано от непредпазливостта. . . . — Какво рискуваш? Да се привържеш към мен и след време да страдаш. Е, и какво? По-добре е, отколкото да се отегчаваш. Нали предпочиташ да бъдеш щастлива и нещастна вместо нищо?
I wish I had discovered Françoise Sagan's writing in my teens, as it would have proved far more inspiring than that of the male misanthropic writers I was consumed with at that age.Some quotes from this book I particularly enjoyed:On giving oneself to someone:"He had been my only lover.
It is always through the body of another that one discovers one's own, at first with suspicion and then with gratitude."On lonesome cinephiles:"There ought to be a special place where old films are shown to people who need a friend."On ageing:"Wrinkles are wonderful...Imagine all the nights, all the countries, all the faces that have gone to make even those two tiny lines.
I first read this some 5-7 years ago, and having reread it now (spurred on after seeing the movie again), I remain impressed at the depth and enlightened introspection that went into the story. Pervasive throughout the narrative, however, is Sagan's emotional detachment, her apathy--or to be specifically French about it, her ennui with life. And what a beautiful, privileged life it was--is, too.Were all French seventeen-year olds of the fifties this world-weary? Brava, Francoise Sagan, you are still France's most precocious teenager writer!
Un Certain Sourire: http://readwithstyle.wordpress.com/20...Sagan is an icon in contemporary world literature.
Her novels encompass the easy,bourgeois lifestyle in Paris, where love is passionate, possessive, but often fleeting.
One might easily be mistaken it is written by a woman with years of love experience, as Sagan describes complicated love stories with maturity, sensibility, and often scrutiny.So far I have read Bonjour Tristesse, Dans un Mois, dans un An and Un Certain Sourire.
Aimez-vous Brahms is her next piece, which is expecting me on my bookshelf right after I finish Rhett Butler’s People.Read more: http://readwithstyle.wordpress.com/20...
I read "Aimez-Vous Brahms" several years ago and that introduced me to Sagan and piqued my interest regarding her other writings.
Perhaps it was because she wrote it a different time, long before the likes of Mr. Grey existed, Sagan's stories tend to be very sweet, romantic love affairs, and quite tame for today's standards.
It's almost the same story as "Aimez-Vous Brahms" except this time girl is younger (whereas in the former, the girl was older than her college-age beau).
The story is classically Sagan, who writes with a distinctly French "je ne sais quoi" that one could almost hear french music just reading it.
I enjoyed every word of this book.
I hope there'll be no stones thrown at me after these words, but really, I can't possibly imagine what could interest the male part of the population in this story?
I wonder what happened to her later in life, after she had gone through the experience of stupid forbidden love.
Did she ever get to love like that again?
I think not, but I wouldn't mind Sagan sharing her opinion about this, too.
I was able to read this not so much in comparison to Bonjour Tristesse (though I did re-read that just before this one), but on its individual merits.
I guess I am on a bit of a Sagan kick, but it feels right.Cute book but not as introspective as Bonjour Tristesse for me.
It didn't have the "trump card" of the Riviera as Sagan would say (okay, maybe a little Riviera) so it didn't feel as atmospheric.
I have started reading The Age of Reason by Sartre thanks to this book however, which Dominique is reading throughout.
A simple story with evocative writing. While I certainly haven't been in the narrator's position, I think we're all familiar with the sense of loss and heartbreak that comes with unrequited love described in Part Three. A beautiful little book.
Didn't enjoy this one as much as 'Bonjour Tristesse' but still a good classic French love tale. 7/10.
Fantastic writing
sagan, as the female counterpart to many male authors who wrote about the same things before and after her time, does this with a lot more grace and the ability to give everyone a personality without generalizing them.i wasn't sure if i liked her when i read bonjour, tristesse last year because of the emotional attachment that came with the book (it was gifted to me by a very good friend who really wanted me to like sagan like he does) so i went out and bought this one for myself and i must say it was a very good read.
