https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84573.Frenchman_s_Creek
Like the linnet before it flew."If you’ve ever felt confined, if you’ve ever felt like just throwing all caution to the wind and escaping, then you can empathize with Dona St. Columb, the heroine of this delightful adventure!
"… in reality it was escape she wanted, escape from her own self, from the life they led together; that she had reached a crisis in her particular span of time and existence, and must travel through that crisis, alone."Upon reaching the coast, Dona soon hears the whispers of the rumor of piracy.
But, most of all, you should read this for the beautiful prose and the nostalgic feel of times gone by.
Loved this book.It had pirates.It had Frenchmen.It had a love story.It had intrigue.It had scandal.It had clean language.It had beautiful writing.It's a great read.
(This novel was originally published in 1941) Adventurous and unique side of Daphne du Maurier-Bored in her marriage, Dona heads to her husband Harry’s estate in Cornwall for some time to herself.
Before all is said and done, she lives through some tense and suspenseful adventures, which on the surface is like reading a swashbuckling pirate tale, replete with romance and intrigue.
She turned swiftly, smiling to herself for no reason, humming a little tune, and strode back across the hills to Navron House, skirting the mud and jumping the ditches like a child, while the sky darkened, and the moon rose, and the night wind whispered in the tall trees.This is the story of a woman, Lady Dona St. Columb, grown jaded by a life of privilege in restoration period London, who leaves her husband’s side and flees with her children and their governess to the countryside and their rarely visited home, Navron House, on the coast of Cornwall.
As I got deeper into the book I liked her a little better (or perhaps it would be more accurate to say that I disliked her a little less), but she's not the type of woman I identify with at all, or want to get to know better, either in real life or in a book.
I can respect that, but hey, go explore Africa or something rather than becoming a criminal.In general, this reads to me like an unhappily married woman's fantasy of how she'd like to ditch her boring and unfulfilling husband and existence and go off on romantic adventures.
From what I've read of Daphne du Maurier's life, I think that's likely the case.

An enjoyable read but really just a historical romance and lacking the suspense and mystery of Rebecca or Jamaica Inn. Her writing is as usual superb and I loved her descriptions of Cornwall and the Helford Passage which is as beautiful as she makes it sound. Altogether a very readable book especially for anyone who likes a light romance but not one of du Maurier's best works.
The Frenchman's Creek is the third book I read of Daphne du Maurier following  My Cousin Rachel  and  Rebecca .
Frenchman's Creek is an adventure story as well as a beautiful love story.
In the French pirate she meets, she finds a soul mate who equals her thirst for adventure; with him she finds love, happiness and true contentment in life and learns what is important in life.
With her Du Maurier has created a loving female protagonist; and certainly the best I have come in a Du Maurier book so far.I liked both parts of the story; the adventure and the romance.
From the first page:"The long rollers of the Channel, traveling from beyond Lizard point, follow hard upon the steep seas at the river mouth, and mingling with the surge and wash of deep sea water comes the brown tide, swollen with the last rains and brackish from the mud, bearing upon its face dead twigs and straws, and strange forgotten things, leaves too early fallen, young birds, and the buds of flowers." Beautiful and ominous--you never know when the hard side of Du Maurier may suddenly come out and the jolly swashbuckling become very, very serious.
Daphne du Maurier enthralls and enchants me again. This book is less foreboding than others but is still wonderful. What is not to love about French pirates wooing an English woman and then allowing her to live a moment as a pirate herself? What is not to love about beautifully written prose and a very feminist slant? There is very little about which to complain in any of du Maurier's books. I have now read 8 of them and am on the hunt to find her others.
I know that if I ever need a book which is guaranteed to transport me to another time and place, and which I know that I am going to thoroughly enjoy,then I need look no further than du Maurier.
In spite of the fact that I knew where this was going early on, I found myself completely immersed in this story.
I love Daphne du Maurier.
I admire her dream-like writing style and I was enchanted by this story.
But, Daphne surprised me here and because it's du Maurier, I went along with it.
Her stories always make me feel so nostalgic.
And, her stories often recall the smallest fragments of a memory, long forgotten, but suddenly needing to be remembered.Oh, I wish I had first read this on a beach, with the waves lapping up on the sand!
Lady Dona St Columb, is bored stiff with London society and her stifling marriage to her stupid, drunkard husband Sir Harry.
Desperate for escape she takes her children and their nursemaid Prue to the family house in Navron, Cornwall perchance to be rid of Harry and, in some way, to start again.
All the classic hallmarks of Du Maurier books are there - the beautiful prose, the humour, the cynical views on marriage etc and the addition of piracy and derring do only make the brew more heady.
A wonderful way to while away a snowy afternoon, I found.
Described as a modern classic.
Her scenes are vividly drawn and I could easily picture the beauty of the surroundings as they were described.
This novel will appeal to all those who desire to escape from reality and pursue a dream world of their own imagination.
However, as a Christian, I found it difficult to enjoy knowing that the heroine was already married and thereby engaging in infidelity by pursuing another.
But, this wasn't an arranged marriage, she had agreed to marry her husband and should therefore be faithful to him.Despite innuendo, there is not really any sexual content in this book.
"[W]e are all cogs in a wheel, and mothers especially.
It is only pirates who are free." A timeless classic that begs to be read for the shear joy of thrilling adventure, daring romance, decorous prose, and literary awesomeness.
"He has it that those who live a normal life in this world of ours, are forced into habits, into customs, into a rule of life that eventually kills all initiative, all spontaneity.
A man becomes a cog in the wheel, part of a system.
But because a pirate is a rebel and an outcast, he escapes from the world.
"FIVE ***** Timeless CLASSIC WORTH READING AND REREADING - Not Simply Just Collecting and Owning ***** STARS
Set during the reign of Charles II, Lady Dona St. Columb finally tires of her husband and his hard playing friends and abandons London for their estate in Cornwall.
The locals are restless with the recent attacks from French pirates and Dona soon finds herself swept up in it all as it appears it is her house and land they have been using as their hideaway and the handsome Frenchman Jean-Benoit Aubery impossible to resist.
i do actually feel that if du maurier didn't think Society would judge her for it, she would've given this novel the ending that some romantics yearn for, and had she not had children herself, i don't imagine the novel would have unfolded the way it did at all.all this i struggled to accept but the worst parts of the novel for me were two scenes where dona and her frenchman were together, at their first late-night supper, and later on when fishing.
My heart is so full right now after finishing this book. Daphne Du Maurier wrote the hell out of this book. It's only about 270 pages and I loved every word, every sentence that made this story. This will go on my list of stories that I won't go a day without thinking of. Seriously wish I could go back and experience it for the first time all over again.
This was a rollicking and fun adventure story that can be enjoyed by anyone. And yes there is a bit of romance thrown in as well.While reading this, I pictured the main characters played by Errol Flynn and Greta Garbo. I don’t know if this book was ever made into a film, but it would make a great one.I just loved the way how Du Maurier wrote this story. If was fun for fun’s sake. This story would also stand up well as a companion volume with “Treasure Island”.So give this book a go and just roll with it.
It has pink and blue and yellow post it notes sticking out of the top and side of the book on so many of the pages!
I used them to mark the pages where I thought there were a few wonderful lines or a memorable scene or dialogue as I read.
I always think I will want to add some of the lines or notes when I write my review.
I want you to read this book.
What a romantic tale, I loved it. It started a little slow but quickly picked up steam and I ended up reading it in one day. Daphne du Maurier has such an elegant way of describing Cornwall, the sea, and her characters. Especially the artist-philosopher-pirate and master of La Mouette, Jean Benoit Aubery. Throw in lots of adventure, danger and daring escapes and this story is a real winner.
The more I thought about this book though, the more it seemed like Du Maurier was writing about her own feelings of being a wife and mother and the sacrifice and limits that she felt came with those identities.
I think she was writing from the doldrums of her own life, giving herself escape in the form of an fantasy adventure.
Her re-iteration several times in the novel that women can never have true enduring freedom because of their biological role in life is dismal.
Clearly Dona St. Columb is not happy limited by her expected role as a wife and mother.
I loved Frenchman’s Creek as a teenager and read it again this month for the first time since.
It’s a swashbuckling tale of love and betrayal, featuring a bored noblewoman and a bold pirate in the time of Charles II.
By accident, Dona meets him and falls in love for the first time in her life.
And the Frenchman attracts danger: the local people want him hanged and all who help him.Like all Daphne du Maurier’s books, Frenchman’s Creek creates a slow but inexorable tightening of dramatic tension that makes it impossible to stop reading.
Lady Dona is self-willed and obstinate, frustrated and unhappy with her life.
Du Maurier had a bit of fun with this character, dressing her in boy's breeches, ready to partake in some pirate-y mayhem like one of the crew of "La Mouette" - the Frenchman's ship anchored in the creek.
The clandestine adventure changes as quickly as the wind and takes on a dangerous course for Dona .
Dona's newly discovered inner self bursts through in heart-pounding, edge -of -the -seat scenes to a very fitting climactic finish.
"Frenchman's Creek" may not be one of Du Maurier's better suspenseful, gothic noirs but its lightness was duly satisfying and enjoyable.
“She knew that this was happiness, this was living as she had always wished to live.” None of my words can ever give justice to one of Daphne du Maurier's novels. All I can say is that I fell in love with one of them, once again. Starting one of her works always feel different, because from the very first words, it feels like home and I cannot stop reading. I want to enjoy her words for as long as possible, but I can't stop. After reading the introduction to Frenchman's Creek (I adore the Virag
After reading the introduction to Frenchman's Creek (I adore the Virago Modern Classics introductions!), I had to stop before moving on to the actual text, because I was so moved, teary-eyed, and somehow jealous of Julie Myerson, who got to write to Daphne and to receive several answers, for I will never be able to have that.
No one else gets me as much as she does.In Frenchman's Creek, I fell in love with the descriptions of Cornwall, with the atmosphere, with the way the pirate's life was described.
Daphne du Maurier has such a way with words and she truly is my favourite author.
Daphne du Maurier was so ahead of her time, once again, I loved the characters she crafted, the plot, her writing, the atmosphere.
I think Daphne du Maurier writes for me....... for my various moods.....
After reading and falling in love with Rebecca when I was a teenager, I started but failed to finish My Cousin Rachel and Jamaica Inn. I gave up on them because they weren't like Rebecca.
So on its surface, the book is a straightforward swashbuckling historical romance.However, the novel can also be read in another way; that is, as a tale about the desire to escape which strikes almost every woman who has ever felt stifled by family ties and societal expetations.
While the novel is set during the Restoration, du Maurier makes no attempt to use period language or other devices to recreate the time period.
Furthermore, she's not a very motherly figure all the time, which, frightening as it may be, was rather entertaining (Kids, get lost, so she can be with her love!) I feel ashamed I wanted her to leave her children for the Frenchman for a while, before I came to my senses and realised how very egoistic that would be.
I just didn't feel her love for her children, she often seemed to think they were in her way.I prefer Rebecca but I will look into some of her other books, as well.
A capricious aristocrat with a risqué reputation and a headstrong nature, leaves her husband behind in London and heads to his familial home in Cornwall.
She’s looking for adventure and – as is the nature of these things – gets much more than she ever bargained for.Beneath the fripperies there’s undoubtedly a feminist text here.
However, one gets the sense that not even du Maurier is taken this all that seriously and so any message is buried beneath layers of theatrical camp-ness.It’s a fun read, but really about a million miles from the genius of ‘Rebecca’.
I fell in love with Daphne du Maurier's writing in high school and thought I had read all of her works several times over. What a delight it was to find this treasure. I escaped with Dona and the Frenchman one afternoon and loved every minute I spent with them. A lovely adventure with pirates, romance, and plenty of fools to round out the picture. I cannot think of a more delightful way to while away an afternoon.
