https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7198988-dark-flame
She is making stupid, reckless desicions even I wouldn't make (and that's saying something), like giving Damon that potion at the near end of the second book, and "saving" Haven from death in the third book by changing her into an immortal.Raise your hand if you totally KNEW she was going to do the "Bella-way" and ruin everyone's lives.
What is now known widely as the "Edward Cullen-way".Also, judging by the summary for Dark Flame, Haven is apparently going to be as selfish brat she normally is, and use her powers for her own means.Raise your hand if you totally KNOW Haven is going to act like a selfish bish.Quite sad, really.Also, I would like to comment on Noel's frequent use on the action of Ever "squinting" and "swallowing." Please.
My review can also be found on my blog Collections.This is what I think about you, Ever Bloom:(view spoiler)[In Shadowland, Ever tried to use magick to bind the evil, immortal rouge Roman to herself so that she could have control over him.
But since she's horrible at following instructions and loves to do things her way, she screwed up the magick and she ended up being bound to Roman instead.
Jude makes up his mind that he isn't giving up on Ever this time.There was just too much stuff I didn't like in this book.
She kept attempting to use ‘magick’ to fix things, and instead just kept making things worse and worse.The storyline in this was about Ever continuing to try to get the antidote to the antidote from Roman so that she could have sex with Damen, and we also got a bit of a love triangle forming between Ever Damen and Jude.
The ending to this was okay, and we did get a surprise death, this series has gone downhill a bit since the second book though.6.5 out of 10
Before I start shamelessly ripping this book apart, I want to say that Dark Flame was SLIGHTLY better than Shadowland, and I really mean slightly.Ever, once again, does stupid things.
Now that she is immortal, she's all like: Look at me!
You want to steal my super-hunk boyfriend, Ever!
I felt a sexual tension between and wanted them to fuck already.
And just when she almost had it, Jude appears out of nowhere and kills Roman..
WHYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY???!!And Haven wants revenge and wants to kill Ever even though it wasn't her fault.And Damen is pissing me off.
I didn't like how Noel makes Ever spend about half the book trying to break the bond between her and Roman only to then go and just about fix it with one ritual and that Ever's negative thoughts aren't helping.
Haven throughout the book I just wanted to smack, she is the most annoying character ever.
That was cool and the tension between her and Roman was awesome, I'm glad her and Haven are fighting.
I loved learning about Roman's past it made everything so much clearer.
What the hell kind of relationship are they in?
I think that Alyson needs to get her characters straight before she even thinks about starting another book.
Who in the hell died and made her queen of the Immortals?
Oh that's right, her stupid freaking love interest/bad guy/mortal enemy of her "best friend" boyfriend Roman.
And by the way I'm dating your mortal enemy"?
What kind of best friend DOES that?
Could she be anymore self involved???
Along with Jude who annoys the hell out of me too.And last but certainly not least, Damen.
This dude seriously needs a backbone.
I got to wonder if anyone who rated this book 4 or 5 stars actually read it?
This book is so bad that I am done with this series.
When I started this series with the first book, I had high hopes.
By the time I finished the third book, I felt like hitting my head against the wall over Ever's stupid annoying mistakes.
I had hoped to find some resolution in this book, but we get nowhere.
I think there are two more books to go in this series and I really don't care enough anymore to keep reading for an ending.
So. Two annoying, arrogant horny teenagers are the guardians of an elixir that allows you to possess immortality and various psychic powers.After attempting Dark Flame, I feel more worn out than anything.
Telekinesis, telepathy, immortality, flawlessly beautiful and what not but that will never change what's going on in their skulls: absolutely nothing.Which brings me back to my opening statement: Two annoying, arrogant horny teenagers are the guardians of an elixir that allows you to possess immortality and various psychic powers.I have three problems with this:1.
I think this book can be best summed up with one simple expression: WTF?
I liked the entire thing with Roman and Ever, attracted to each other, but I was really hoping for Damen and Ever to get back together, and was horribly, horribly pissed with the ending.
How much longer are you going to keep the whole "Damen-Ever = NEVER DOING IT' plot?
We get the point, already (although we don't exactly know which point you're trying to make).No plot development happened with Ever, or Damen, and I found proof that Damen just WASN'T trying hard enough to find out what was going on with Ever.I hate Jude - she could've done a better job creating another romantic interest, right, this being the only series she's currently working on!?
Ever, Ever, Ever. How stupid are you now?It just makes me sad that you'd allow yourself to fail when you get close. And oh god, ANOTHER love triangle?Shoot me.
He is like an old man hitting on a 16-year-old here, and I think he just wants to add her to his conquests.
Jude is the only truly sexy and desirable man in this series of books.
Roman and Damon might be pretty-boys, but Jude is beyond dreamy in my book.
Jude even loves her enough to help her have sex with Damon, since that seems to be the only thing she wants in life.
I hate to bother with the next (final) book, because I figure she will dump on Jude like yesterdays trash.
Alyson, Alyson...You have taken a wonderful creation 'Evermore', which is truly captivating...and ruin it by making it a sequal.
Nevertheless, i stood tall and hoped you would redeem the story and characters in 'Shadowland' But Gosh was i wrong...
Compared to shadowland, Blue Moon was Okay.
However, Im one to finish what I'v started and went ahead and red Dark Flame, recluctently...You have turned Ever into a charcter i truly loath for being so dumb witted.
You'r books would be better without her.All in all, im asking, no im BEGGING - please, oh God please improve.
Im only reading this because I want to see if Ever gets any sense.Looking back on the rest of the series.
I'm sad to say this was the best one since EVERMORE (which I loved!!!) Until Noel lost all her writing skills and went on with the rest of series.
If you read the rest of the reviews of this book you'll get the idea.
Now to salvage this review with a little good news.It was a little better than the last book.
Noel must of got off her butt and actually thought this story through.
Lets hope she actually redeems everyone in the last two books.
Take a drink every time one of these events occurs.Ever misuses magic..Ever doesn't tell Damen she fucked up.Ever trying to dig her way out of the pile of shit she's created, and ending up being buried in more shit.Ever whining that her Aunt Sabine doesn't understand her.Ever whining because the universe has been cock blocking her and Damen for 400 years, give or take.Ever is still drawn to Jude, because all YA books need a completely unnecessary love triangle.Ever tries to jump Roman's bones because thanks to one of her many fuck ups, she now has a pulsing yearning for him, also known as the beast.Haven is a whiny bitch(you could probably get drunk just taking a shot every time that happens)Damen and Ever are all sappy crappy.Damen forgives Ever at the blink of an eye for whatever mess she's gotten them into.Nice and drunk?
I'll warn you that there will be a few general spoilers in my review as it's hard to discuss without them in this case.The saving grace for this series is that Ever finally has an epiphany (with the help of Ava, Damen and Jude) in the last third of the book.
throughout this installment, Ever is still trying to obtain the "antidote to the antidote" from Roman so that she can physically be with her true love Damen...
Ever further learns why Roman is the way he is, and she begins to feel some sympathy towards him close to the end of this book...
Jude... WTF?!?!?! Neeeeee wat doe je?!?! *graait naar deel 5* Ik moet verder lezen
Having a hard time getting through this one...it seems to drag a bit and I really enjoyed the first three of the series. This one just seems a little slow and repetitive.
Ever with her “I’m horny, and make all kinds of mistakes and blame everyone else when I can’t follow simple directions and nothing I do is because I did it but because everyone else told me wrong or didn’t tell me” and Damen with his “I love you too much to hurt you and I’d give you over to the other man to make you happy and live a life you want and you could never do wrong in my eyes” *BIG EYE ROLL* And let me tell you, now we have Haven....who just happened to be annoying when she was mortal but now that she’s immortal?
So there's a lair: Inhabited by Roman, the evil, gorgeous DO NOT GO NEAR HIM UNLESS YOU HAVE A TASER, guy: But you have a loving, immortal and clingy boyfriend: Who EXPLICITLY told you NOT to go to the evil lair to get the antidote.He told you you'd find a way around this situation.Together....But you can't hear him CAN you? So you get up and walk RIGHT INTO THE EVIL LAIR like the idiot you are: Congratulations. You totally met my expectations.
I think its what the author what us to fill after reading this.Yah she got that.I absolutely LOVED the first installment to the Immortals series, Evermore.
But one thing for sure Ever really is dangerously and recklesly out of control, from the second book until now she proved it.I think that's really the intention of the author, she give us the dark side of the book, what ever at least i kinda like it.And now I am dying to read the next installment...Night Star, due to be released November 23rd.
And I really really hope that this last installment I can give it 5 stars like the first.
I'm gonna have to say I didn't like this book very much in comparison to the rest of the series.
I thought Shadowland wasn't that good either, but Dark Flame was definitely disappointing.
Well, Dark Flame I didn't like for almost the opposite.
Nearer the end, I thought it was like Alyson Noel suddenly pressed down the accelerator.
Overall, Dark Flame was very good.
In comparison to the rest of the series, it was terrible.
There were bits of amazing in Dark Flame, and pieces of terrible in it.
I really hope Night Star will rise above Dark Flame and Shadowland.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's been about six months since I read Shadowland, giving me just enough time to forget how much this series melts my brain and prompting me to go check Dark Flame out from the library.As I've read this series, it's seemed as though the books have improved very slightly as the series progresses.
Most of the book actually seems to feel a little like she's living an endless loop, a'la Groundhog Day. I didn't actually keep track of the times that she goes over to Roman's, tries to seduce him, and then gets caught by Haven (who, presumably, spends all her time hanging out in Roman's hamper, so she can consistently pop up whenever it would be the most inconvenient for our protagonist).
I really hope it'd be better. Well the first book was awesome, I was all hung over Ever and Damon, until i read the next 2 books. I'm getting disappointed. When the 2nd book came out it went all downhill. Then the 3rd and I completely lost interest, but I seriously hope that Ever would be a little smarter and has a mind to think before she acts. Hope the 4th book would redeams its former glory.
Well, I have finally accepted that a small part of me actually enjoys these books. Though, it's basically the same conflict over and over again, but I have decided to give it two stars because of Roman and the fact that Ever wasn't the one who made the horrible decision in the end.
Ever is drunk on her Roman attachment spell gone wrong, and then the dolt that she is written that she is, doesn't even ask for help that is right in front of her.
I am like, going, 'Ever, go with Jude, he's like, right there and Damen even said you could, and Jude HAS been waiting 400 years TOO ya know...
:) But I love these books, lovely to read, and I love all of the covers too.
I love pretty covers, they are worthy of a star from me, a lot of times.
I can't wait for 'Night Star'.
Levemente mejor que el anterior pero igual de insoportable. No repunta, che...
Me throughout this entire book: Ever you dumb bitch..............love you girl
With that being said, this was not a opinion changer for me, not a favorite to be sure.Readers will see the characters and plot going in more of the same direction in Dark Flame.
I understand that Roman's had a rough life, but he's still not a great guy.And then we've got Haven, Ever's best friend and recently turned immortal.
Damen and Ever already have enough obstacles to overcome, did we really need a love triangle in there as well?I think this might be the end of the road for me and the Immortals series.
Ever has been trying to get away from Roman powers.
She was afraid to go to Damen thinking he would be upset, if he knew what she got herself into.
Ever is indeed trying to get in the way, but only because she binded herself to him, she can't help but feel drawn to him.Ever, after all that she has been through finally found it through the power of forgiveness.
It wasn't magic that binded herself to Roman, it was herself and her own fears.
Ever was scared of never being with Damen, so she Roman take over her life.
