https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1235368.The_Nun_s_Story
Never thought the book would be as good as the movie, but it was.
Actually never knew that the movie had been made from a book until I saw someone rate it on here.
One of my all time favorite movies, I remember watching it with my grandfather, and I loved Audrey Hepburn.
Was going to Catholic school and my best friend who lived next door had a nun for an aunt so we used to dress up as nuns.
When I went to Catholic School that phase ended quickly, Sister Luke was not there, in her place were many elderly and crabby sisters.
Loved reading every bit of this book.
I was totally obsessed with this book in junior high!
Never have I seen such a complete and detailed look into the life of a nun!
This is also an interesting look at life in both the Congo, and Belgium during World War II.
(Yep, nuns have some adventures!)I think that her time in the Congo was my favorite thing, from the sexy doctor who liked to taunt the nuns to her treehouse (complete with monkey companion), was just sheer reading candy.
I got this book as a surprise in a tea and book club and had never heard of it or the film. It's brilliant! Such a good book that makes you think through your own strength of character. I loved it.
I think that fascination may have stemmed from seeing this film when I was young, and seeing the struggles these women of God go through in their quest for Christ-like perfection.
And though the 1950s descriptions of colonial Congo are not PC, there is still a tenderness and great reverence for the area portrayed through Sister Luke.
I cry at the end of the film.
I found this book very contemplative, especially when holding up the nun's Rule standards against my own, and comparing how these Catholic sisters interpret scripture against what I think, and my thoughts.
I was struggling with my belief and finally left, a reluctant atheist.I can clearly remember after the film, asking my companion monk why he thought Sister Luke had left her religious order.His reply was that she had lost her vocation.I was startled.
She had neither lost her faith or her vocation.She had just kept growing and refused to stop.I, myself, felt that I was growing and regardless of the then bitter pill of atheism, with no Dawkins or Hitchens to support me - there were no popular atheists writing in those days - I followed my reasoned and reasonable doubts right out the Catholic Church's Front Door.
Kathryn Hulme took her story from a real Belgian nun who in fact felt a deep nostalgia for her convent days.
I've got to check it out!One of the best friends I met on my mission was a Spanish nun/nurse, Sister Maria, who worked in a southern Madagascar leper colony for 20 years and, when I met her, was working at a hospital in Antananarivo.
A couple of years later, she helped me get a summer job with Catholic Relief Services where I spent three months living in a convent and working in the southern Madagascar "bush." The last time I saw her was in March 2007 on a short trip to France; she had been transferred to the Mother House there, sort of set out to pasture.
It’s as if she is using her simple, concise language as a metaphor for the nun’s life, because within the unadorned narrative is a rich, complex, emotional and bewildering tale…much like the character of Sister Luke.It’s a very revealing peek into life in the convent, into the training of the Brides of Christ, and raises some very interesting questions and choices a nun must make.
Her desire to do good cannot be kept within the context of her vows; she cannot reconcile the nurse within her and the nun within her.I thought it was a very engaging, powerful story, but again, it’s a matter of taste.
This has been my favorite book for years! I wish there was a sequel. I identify with Sister Luke in so many ways, though I have never attempted to be a nun. Her strength and self-examination are tremendous.
For anyone who is interested in why someone would choose to be a nun and what can be gained by being formed in such a discipline, this book is a serious consideration.
It takes the community's faith seriously and also takes seriously the difficulties of living that faith as a nun, a nurse, a woman, in the "real world." The early part of the book is somewhat slow and internal, reflective of the life of discipline found during the first years of formation in the convent.
I torture myself reading about nuns. That's what happens when you attend Catholic school for a few years in the late 1950s and early 60's - - and are left-handed. You spend your life trying to understand the logic. (logic?) Too bad none of the nuns that taught me had the grace of Audrey Hepburn. (who played Sister Luke in the movie)
This is just one of the many struggles we experience with Gabrielle, who is now Sister Luke.
In such a case, a shift in the time a trait is allowed to develop before it is fixed can bring forth an ancestral phenotype.[3])in context of book..."The drama of the expanding Congo touched off a patriotic pride she never knew she had, but accepted tranquilly now as one of those atavisms which every nun brought to the convent from her former life and never quite outgrew."p.236 somnambulists (wikipedia def...
I found this book after seeing the movie (with Audrey Hepburn) one random afternoon. I don't know why it appeals to me so much, but I've reread it at least four times. I love the level of detail about the life of a nun-in-training, and the struggles of faith and character Sister Luke undergoes.
And this is her struggle, to live "a life against nature," "all for Jesus."But as it is written, this story based on true events about the lives of nuns and the trials of Sister Luke is for the most part eerily peaceful, as it has a way of dropping you gently right into the middle of her world.
The ultimate battle of Sister Luke revolves around whether or not she is capable of this, whether or not she really does belong in a convent living the life of a nun.
Love faith and a look at life as Sister Luke is tested. In Africa at a remote Congo hospital, during World War II, she is ordered not to take sides. Sister Luke is faced with a decision,stay in the convent or return to the outside world. Interesting story
(Or at least the Congo she dreams about, which turns out to be very different to the actual place.) In this day and age, "Luke" (named for the Evangelist who was a doctor, heavy-handed irony on the author's part) would simply have studied medicine and become a doctor, and probably cocked a snook at her father and married Jean into the bargain; in 1920s Belgium, a nice little bourgeoise girl could do none of those things, so she takes what she percieves is the only option open to her, by becoming a nursing nun.
Do not be deceived, the story is extremely well written and rather objective raising questions about the human need to downgrade itself in order to arrive at sainthood, and let’s be grand here, any type of sainthood, including whatever these modern days are selling us about being good to ourselves by deprivation of basic needs.
Behind the scenes the fascinating story behind the relationship of the author, Hulme and the protagonist in real life M.L. Habets, is equally intriguing to read about online.
The book, though, is not about homosexuality, it’s about human dignity.
But it does not reflect many religious orders for women in the Roman Catholic Church as much as some might believe it does (just reading other posters who do not have much context of R.C.).
And as I am a Catholic of age that has been in Novitiate etc.- this is not a universal religious statement about Catholicism either, at all.
But it IS in itself NOT revisionist or is it interpreted by outside eyes, and for that-coupled with the immense entertainment value of reading this woman's story from her conflicted soul; I give it a 5.
Amazed and awed, I acknowledge women who choose a nun's life.
It definitely is not an easy existence.
Yes, the novel portrays the strict rules and the unflinching important of obedience, but I did not feel that is was a derogatory treatise on the Catholic Church.This decision to change a chosen lifestyle would not be an easy one.
No one can question the dedication and selfless life of a nun.
I read an award winning first-time memoir from a Utah author years ago that told the author's personal story as she, too, forsook her life as a nun.
This first book I read (a student's mother's story) was better written and dealt more with the author's spiritual trials.
The Nun’s Story by Kathryn Hulme is an absorbing tale of one woman’s inner struggle with pride as she battles to live out her deep-seated beliefs and convictions in her life as a nun.
The path to God is not an easy one, living twenty-four hours a day in a religious community demanding strict, constant and honest monitoring of one’s inner life and thoughts.
She struggles to shed the pride in her past academic excellence and the pride in being the daughter of an eminent specialist in tropical medicine, and with the advent of war she confronts her ultimate battle when she recognizes that seeds of hate have germinated within her heart, and anchored themselves deep within her soul.
Ok so overall I enjoyed this book.
I found it in a very old book store and the lady suggested it to me as a 'sad but wonderful' read.The fact The Nun's Story is based on Kathryn Hulme's own experience with a nun and inspired by her story gives it a lot more weight.
I imagine there is so much more drama to be told and I was really looking forward to what was to come and then it ended.
I enjoyed it but wanted less at the beginning and more at the end!
I'd recommend giving it a go though!
The Nun's Story is a delight to read and is constantly on my mind even when it isn't in my hand.
The author achieves an excellent point of how different the world looks from a nun's window.
That made me reflect how if different for a nun, why not consider how it is different for each individual.
I was drawn completely into the story, feeling like I was walking along side the nun, my own feelings hurt when a passer by would callously yell out "There's a black crow!" I enjoyed traveling Belgium, the Congo, and Holland through the narrative.
I finished it and was amazed.
I give it a 4, not because it was a life altering read but because it opened up a new world to me.
I don't love the ending; I wish it would have wrapped up things a little better.
I didn't completely understand "Sister Luke's" feelings or situation.
But I really enjoyed learning about the process of becoming and being a nun (their focuses) and especially Sister Luke's experiences in the Congo.
That was really cool, but then again, I'm biased toward Africa.
:) I liked the parts of the story which revealed Native culture and life.
This was a perfect book to read during Lent.
It was a little dull at first and I wish there had been more background information on why the woman decided to become a nun but at the same time I suppose since they're supposed to forget their previous lives this was another way of focusing on her life as a nun and not going into all that.
Other than that, I enjoyed this book very much.
It showed how this woman was able to grow in obedience and self-abnegation and detachment, while also showing the conflicts she went through as a highly intelligent nun who had been so highly praised in her past life for her intellectual capabilities.
This story goes so deep into the daily routine of the nun from the day they enter the convent all the way through their final vows.
As you follow the constant struggle Sister Luke faces between trying to be a wonderful servant of God as both a nun and a nurse, you see and feel how difficult the choices she has to make on a daily basis.
Many of the things she is asked to do you could never imagine a nun being asked to do and I felt so much for her during those times.
PROS: The main character is deep, strong, and believably conflicted.
I'm fascinated by how the central conflict of the story isn't one of faith, but rather the restricting institutionalization of faith.
Some of the supporting characters are thinly drawn, but in a way that feels real in a life where events and faces blur together, and the ones that stand out are memorable.
It's an honest, captivating, meticulous character study.CONS: Can be a little dry and caught up in the details at times.
The ending is a little frustrating because it seems to open up the next chapter in the lead's life just before suddenly cutting away.
Not being Catholic, nor of a religious bent, I was fully prepared to not like this book.
I figured I'd give it 50 pages and then toss it.
I was so engrossed in Sister Luke's internal struggles that I was way beyond 50 pages before I realized it.
Her struggles and trials were very specific in nature, but very universal in scope.
We all want to be better people, to try to overcome our own faults but her battles were while nursing in the Congo of the 1930's or while trying to maintain a hospital during WWII.
This follows a nun from the moment she leaves her family in the parlor of the convent through 17 years of personal and spiritual struggles to lead a life in the Holy Order according to her vows. We follow her life through her novitiate, to the Congo and struggling to forgive her enemy during WWII. After reading this excellent book, I believe it was made into a movie years back with Audrey Hepburn, I think. It is an interesting examination of spiritual issues and the constant inner struggle to live a pure life before the Lord.
I liked the movie, 'The Nun's Story' with Audrey Hepburn.
So when I found a copy of the book at the local library I added it to my reading list.
Wow. I will have to watch the movie again sometime.Most of the book is about the interior life and struggle of a young woman who becomes a nun.
Of course it's difficult to properly portray that in the movie.
I found the end of the movie left me with too many questions.
The book did not tie it up neatly, but it was a much more satisfying end.
I first read the story of Sister Luke in a Reader's Digest Condensed book. I liked it so much I had to find the full length version. Something about her kicking against the restraints of the religious life that gave her so much just echoed in me. Might have had something to do with my desire to become a nun in my teen years, too. Her story of trying to conform to the convent, of the freedom of working on mission in Africa, and then the war years and dealing with the Germans, was fascinating to me.
There are many reviews which I feel pretty much cover the facts and character of this very well written book. I would just add, that it brought back many reminisces of my own childhood in Catholic grade school 60 years ago. Our nuns were fully clothed and coiffed and veiled as described here even though there austerity of life style did not seem as severe. They were a very dedicated (if sometimes misguided lot) to whom I am grateful.
