https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8705784-born-at-midnight
Born at Midnight, a summary:KYLIE: OMG, my life totally sucks (goes to party with alcohol involved)PARENTS: For that, we're sending you away to a summer camp for troubled teenagers.KYLIE: Like, could this get worse?KYLIE'S FRIEND SARAH: OMG, pregnancy scare!KYLIE: I'm, like, so stressed out here.
(actual line from the book)CAMP DIRECTOR HOLIDAY: Welcome everyone.KYLIE: I'm not a troubled teen!HOLIDAY: So you bought that story, huh?
(Goes back to sulking)DEREK: Hi, I'm a very attractive guy who is attracted to you.KYLIE: I'm still not a supernatural, but you're way hot.
Apparently our heroine is a good girl because she's a virgin and her best friend "gave it away" so she deserves what she gets.
Affluent.Best Friend (I can't even remember her name): drinks, not a virgin, white, straight, cisgender, affluent.The difference between them is their sexual status and their attitudes to alcohol.
The women in this book exist on a staircase of worth - virginal Kylie stands on the top step, and the partying girls are clustered at the very bottom.
Luckily, she befriends Della and Miranda, both of whom try to help her feel like she belongs and finding out ‘‘what’’ she is.Oh, and there’s Lucas and Derek… a werewolf and a fairy who are deeply attached to her.I know what you’re going to say.
Because it’s the type of love triangle that’s complex and makes you think.So far, we don’t know the two boys well enough to decide who is best for Kylie and, also, I feel like there’s a mystery behind Derek’s life that the author will be developing in the sequels.
I thought it was pretty good =) ♥ Not a big fan of love triangles but this one wasn't as bad as some! Happy Reading! Mel ♥
I love that cover and after reading the synopsis I knew I had to read this book and I was happy enough to get my hand on a ARC, woohoo!
It's about Kylie trying to figure out who she really is, specially in terms of supernatural species.
The Problem is no one knows what Kylie is and she hates being there and being "not normal"...
*gasps* Normally I hate triangles, specially since one boy will always loose and I feel bad for him.
Me always loves good kisses and we get some pretty hot ones in Born at Midnight!
Basically the worst book I've ever read personally. Hated the characters, story, how judgemental Kylie was, etc. This used to have a review, but then a troll came along, and I realized that this review would probably attract many more, so I just took it down.
SUCH AN AMAZING BOOK! I SWEAR IT HAS EVERYTHING I LOVE IN A STORY!
It could have been a lot of fun to read about a summer camp of witches, vampires, werewolves, fairies, etc.
they drew each other's names (of course our main character always got the really hot boys) and they went and talked for an hour in the woods.
It shouldn't surprise you by this point in the review that I thought this entire book was poorly written.
It barely had a plot and what it did have the poorly written characters ruined it.
This was no fun to read and I'm honestly shocked that I finished it.
Let's play a guessing game. Ready?Is it a.... fairy?No.Is it a... vampire?No.Is it a.... werewolf?NO.Is it a... nnoying?YES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!On page 205 of "Born at Midnight," the (boring, flat, typical) main character, Kylie, is in the same position she was in on page 50. I mean  exact  same position. She's at a summer camp for supernatural creatures. Her shrink recommended it to her mom because the shrink is half fairy and can recognize the signs of supernatural gifts.OK.SO. What is  Kylie, you m
Here is an actual conversation from the book between Kylie and her mentor- an irritating woman named "Holiday" who is supposed to come off as intelligent, but gives vague, unimpressionable answers that really just annoy the **** out of me.Kylie: But, do we know- I mean, if I am one of you, that I'm not like a vampire of a werewolf?"Holiday: "I'm guessing if you were of that species, we would have seen some of the normal characteristics that are linked to them."Kylie: But you don't think I'm a vampire or werewolf, right?Holiday: "I think that's unlikely."Kylie: So, assuming I'm not human, I'm also not a fairy?"Holiday: "I didn't say that."Kylie: "Is being a ghost whisper a common gift for elves?"Holiday: "Generally...
Troubled teens being an euphemish for troubled supernatural teens.I have to admit I had so many issues with this book.At first I respected Kylie for wanting to save her virginity for someone special,then she let the reader know what happens if you hurry into losing your virginity (her friend does) You sleep around,start to party hard and wear revealing clothes (IT COULD HAPPEN TO YOU!) So basically the author is saying you can be a madonna or a whoreOoIn the end she got a holier than thou personality I especially like *sarcasm* how she admits feeling good about listening to other peoples problemsSo the main character is a girl who looks down on girls who arent virgins,take comfort in friends problems and twists her father around her little finger.
Or were they looking at all of them?Stupid, spineless best friend.The she recalled how Sara had given in to Brad's "needs"-Brad who was the love of Sarah's life-yet, within two weeks of giving in, the love of Sara's life had dumped her.
If blue eye shadow was rave, you can bet Sara would have blue eye shadow before the week was out.I didn't read far enough to know how the love interest, Derek and Lucas are like.Just found out there'll be five books in this series.May God have mercy for all those trees sacrificed in the making of the remaining books.
I have to say though, that I was a little disappointed.The CoverSo I know that we shouldn't judge a book by its cover but, come on.
The history and interactions of the campers were pretty interesting at times.What I didn't like or could have been betterThe characters.I did have a slight problem with Kylie.
I was a little upset about that because I thought that they could have had some interesting pasts because they are, you know, supernatural and had cool abilities.Besides that, at times I got a little bored.
That was a little annoying and I just thought that she didn't need to have someone that she liked all the time.
Kylie.. ..a girl leading a normal life. (Well, yeah, if you exclude all the recent mishaps..)Who would've thought she was anything but normal.And the blondie was like.. Evolution of unknown powers, which she hadn't even been familiar with. Until now. Two boys vying for her attention. Oh, wait. Make that three. Yeah, that's right. Three guys hungry for her attention..Derek.. Lucas.. Trey.. Two friends, and roommates, totally different species, grabbing any chance to degrade and curse each other.D
..a girl leading a normal life.
(Well, yeah, if you exclude all the recent mishaps..)Who would've thought she was anything but normal.And the blondie was like..
Two boys vying for her attention.
Yeah, that's right.
Three guys hungry for her attention..Derek..
Could life get anymore exhausting?
Or interesting?This book is a wonderful read, which will take you on the journey of Kylie Galen's life and all hardships and changes she goes through.
The love, the paranormal root, goes too deep and leaves you tangled and wanting more.Definitely a must-read :D....This series made it to my favorite series along with Hush, Hush series, The Grey Wolves series and Lux series(this one being the BEST).Best books ever written, these series.
Shadow Falls Camp is, she finds out for supernaturals, vampires, werewolves, faeries, shapeshifters,ghosts and anything else she can think of.
During camp activities, getting to know your campmates hour, names are chosen and Derek, the boy that reminds Kylie of her ex draws her name and leads her to a magical little place near the water where they sit and talk and almost kiss.
They wear dark suits and walk around interrogating students about what we don't know until the last bit of the book but everyone is under suscipion, especially Kylie because she can't be read.
Or Kylie who's parents don't know what type of camp Shadow Falls really is.
This may be a great fantasy book and I'll never know, but there is so much slut-shaming in little more than 10 pages, that I will not continue reading this.
How am I supposed to like a character who calls another girl a "screw toy" and judges her best friend's worth based on the fact that she's not a virgin anymore?
I am beyond disgusted, and if 10 pages of this "book" have already managed to get me to despise both the main character and, unfortunately, the author, I cannot imagine what reading the whole book could cause.
May 10 2016LOVED rereading this book. I was just in the mood to reread it again and so I'm going to continue rereading the entire series #SeriesSummer hear I come :)July 10 2013This book made me laugh and I just fell in love with the story!!! I love fantasy and this was such a fun book. Can't wait to read the second book!!

I thought to myself it probably could be worse.And boy, how I loved this book from the first chapter!
Kylie is a character you easily love, and I love how she reacts when she is told what really is going on with her.Besides of being a loveable character, she surrounds herself with two amazing guys - Derek and Lucas.
And after reading the book, I must admit, I love Lucas most.
Her roomies is both nice and I love their fight, it's a nice touch to the book.
The story Della told about her and Lee really touched me.
Love the book.
Love the book.
I read this book a while ago but never got around to writing about how much I loved it! I read it in one sitting!! Definitely a series I would recommend every paranormal/fantasy reader out there!
This review may also be found on A Thousand Little Pages.Kylie’s life is breaking down around her: her parents consider divorce, her boyfriend dumps her and immediately starts going out with another girl, and a stalker has been introduced into her life.
And soon, Kylie discovers herself stranded in the midst of brainwave-reading paranormal creatures that couldn’t and shouldn’t exist.
Kylie’s stalker also starts to make sense -- a startling relief after all the anxiety.
But now, Kylie's acquired a stalker and she hasn't a clue what he wants or how to get rid of him .
Thinking she may be losing it, her parents send her off to see a psychologist who gets Kylie sent to Shadow Falls Camp.
Kylie and her parents think it's a camp for troubled teens.They thought wrong.Kylie's surrounded by vampires, werewolves, fairies, witches and shapeshifters.
As Kylie struggles to cope with the realization that these creatures even exist, and the fact that she might not be human, she's got two hot guys, a werewolf and a half-fairy vying for her attention.
"'They call us boneheads,' the girl said...
'Ha,' said the blond boy.
'Why is that funny?' the girl wearing all black asked in a tone so deadly serious that Kylie shivered.
'You dont know what a boner is?' Blond Boy asked.
"...Slowly the sparkles fell to the floor and left standing where Perry has once stood was a huge honking white unicorn with a pink horn in the middle of its forehead...'Shit!''Damn!''Oh my god!''Holy cow!''Mo fo'"(48/49)!"'Then we don't ask him to let us in.
That's like trying to fool Superman.''Yeah, but I happen to know what his kryptonite is.''He has a kryptonite?' Derek asked.'Yup. And her name is Holiday'" (357).
And by the end of the book, I had a good grasp on all of the paranormal creatures and the world that they lived in.
Right from the start, I liked Kylie.
Miranda was one of her roommates and I loved her friendly disposition right from the start.
But I felt as though I chose the guy that would be the best for Kylie.
Another thing I loved about Lucas was that anytime he was around Kylie, their chemistry was scorching hot.
Lucas made my heart race and I'm hoping that he ends up being the winner of Kylie's heart.
BR with ♈Ariel♈! :DThe characters in this book were dull and the writing was weird. A few quotes: Kylie flinched emotionally, but physically didn’t blink. (location 150)Kylie started to follow but her gaze slapped against Soldier Dude. (location 212)Tears threatened to crawl up her throat. (location 229)Her mom’s green eyes tightened. (location 247)Chills tiptoed up her spine. (location 607)Her gaze slapped right into Kylie. (location 622)A watery film coated her vision. (locations 760-761) I co
BR with ♈Ariel♈! :DThe characters in this book were dull and the writing was weird. A few quotes:
  Kylie flinched emotionally, but physically didn’t blink. (location 150)Kylie started to follow but her gaze slapped against Soldier Dude. (location 212)Tears threatened to crawl up her throat. (location 229)Her mom’s green eyes tightened. (location 247)Chills tiptoed up her spine. (location 607)Her gaze slapped right into Kylie. (location 622)A watery film coated her vision. (locations 760-761)
I couldn't go on. I can't be bothered to write a longer review. DNF @ 13%.
It's not like I was expecting literary genius here, but between constantly being shocked and appalled by all the "scary mega-freaks" (aka someone with dyed hair or A TATTOO) and things like "There was another girl dressed in all black.
I should have just stopped reading at "I was shocked when my best friend told me she thought she might be pregnant, she was such a smart girl.
But of course that's what can happen if you had unprotected sex with several partners!!!!", but sometimes I seem to have a masochistic streak.
While Shadow Falls is indeed a place for troubled teens, Kylie quickly learns that this is no ordinary camp.
Surrounded by witches, fairies, vampires, shape shifters, and werewolves; Kylie must accept that she too is a descendant of the gods.
Kylie’s roommates Miranda and Della are quirky and fun and some of the more humorous scenes are when they are giving Kylie a crash course in what life can be like when you’re rooming with a witch and a vampire.
I’m all for love triangles and even the occasional love square, but this whole scenario was over the top.Reading Born at Midnight was a little like watching a movie on cable.
Truth be told, I only liked Daniel the Ghost.Issues I had with Kylie: her immaturity, the fact that she couldn't get over her ex-boyfriend and fell in love with a guy who reminded her of him (what kind of messed up kid does that?!), how she couldn't stop claiming that she's just a human, how she pinned everyone in camp as freaks, and how she solved every situation in a second after someone gave her the right clues...
I know a bunch of kids who killed cats in their childhood but they're still decent human beings.I'm not even going to start on Miranda.
I really liked the idea that at the beginning she was so distant with her parents, but at the end she became so close to her mother and I really loved that part.
I liked both Lucas (the werewolf) and Derek (the fee), who tried to have Kylie for them.
And Derek seem just another hot "6-pack" guy and became really annoying at some point.Also, I really liked that Kylie discovered at last who the Soldier was.
I didn not want to put that book down since I picked it up and started reading it.
She falls hard for Lucas, a hot and mysteriously sexy werewolf and Derek, a sweet, caring, gorgeous green eyed half fae who makes your heart skip a beat.
So many discoveries unravel and she learns some shocking news about her parents, Lucas leaves the camp with a she-wolf, her feelings for Derek increase, her ghost finally talks to her asking for help in something important and it's enough to keep her from falling apart....Well, I will stop there.
Ugh. This book to me was pretty much a mixture of all the other YA PNR books out there. It's one of those books where I rolled my eyes a lot and finished it with an unsatisfied sigh. Let's see:1. Vampires, werewolves and faeries - Check2. Mary Sue heroine with unique powers - Check3. Dickhead heroes - Check4. Shitty love triangle - CheckYup. Didn't find much originality, really. And the characters were just hard to like. I'd give this book 2 stars, though, because it was bad, but not totally a piece of shit.
