https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6361448-the-dogs-and-the-wolves
The courage and nobility holed beneath the waterline by the recorder of the story not thinking things through.Irene Nemirovsky, sorry but I can't work out how to put the accents on, has composed a story of love, obsession and loss but one that is quite difficult to believe, she holes it beneath its own waterline because she has written a story which is an obvious story of characters created to produce and move along her plot rather than any sense of real people acting from out of real situations.The story begins in the Ukraine and concerns two strands of the same Jewish family, the Sinners.
"Ah, come odio le vostre ipocrisie europee! Quel che lei chiama successo, vittoria, amore, odio, io lo chiamo denaro! È un altro termine per definire le stesse cose."
But then Ada discovers another cousin, the rich and distant, Harry Sinner, and a life long passion and love for Harry begins.FURTHER INFO: The French title - Entre chien et loup, meaning twilight, the time when the light is too dim to distinguish a dog from a wolf.
This was Némirovsky's last published novel.Produced and directed by Pauline Harris.Translated by Sandra Smith.Dramatised by Ellen Dryden1: Ada discovers another cousin, the rich and distant, Harry Sinner, and a life long passion and love for Harry begins.2: After a terrible row with her cruel Aunt Raissa, Ada runs away.
Benedetti Anobii e Goodreads grazie ai quali ho scoperto autori che probabilmente mi sarebbero rimasti sconosciuti.Il modo di scrivere di questa donna ti entra nell'anima. Penso sarebbe interessante leggere anche la sua lista della spesa.Riesce a farti entrare nella storia e descrive i personaggi in un modo tale che hai la sensazione di conoscerli.Bello. Uno di quei libri che quando lo finisci lo tieni tra le mani e ti dispiace di doverlo riporre.
Nemirovsky's style is dark and overpowering -- it is as if the first page of the book places a pair of leaden hands on your shoulders, holding you down and forcing you to witness each character's febrile dance with doom.
And her merciless, razor-sharp precise descriptions of characters or situations are not mysanthropic in nature, quite the opposite: the sickly selfishness, compulsiveness, mad intensity of Ada, Ben, Harry, Aunt Rayssa is what makes them contemptible but also what makes them vulnerable.
"The Dogs and The Wolves" is an unforgettable, riveting book, the very best kind of literature.
"Solos", Felix Parra."...Del mismo como que ciertos rostros, ciertas casas desconocidas, despiertan en la memoria un eco a un tiempo melancólico y dulce, como si nos encontráramos con los testigos de una vida anterior."Este es un libro lleno de nostalgias, de deseos, de pérdidas.
¡Y qué descubrimiento!La novela nos narra la vida de tres personajes, desde su infancia hasta el final de su juventud: Ben, Ada y Harry, tres judíos viviendo en una pequeña ciudad perteneciente al imperio ruso pero de diferentes clases sociales.
I loved mostly the first part of the novel where she introduces the characters and depicts the life of cousins Ada and Ben among the poorest Jews in the ghetto in a Ukrainian city, the terror of the pogrom, the startling differences between their impoverished family and that of a distant relative, Harry Sinner, who lives in pomp and ceremony.
It focuses on the struggles for a better life in Paris, the relentless pursuit of money, Ben’s financial machinations and Ada’s adulterous love affair with Harry.I will definitely be on the lookout for Nemirovsky's other prized works like “Suite Française”, “Fire in the Blood” or “David Golden”.

Ma quante vite ha vissuto questa donna, per poter scrivere così? Quante?!
The Dogs and the Wolves is the sixth Némirovsky book I’ve read and in my opinion, it’s one of her best.
Here are some of my favorite quotes:For the first time, she truly saw the lovely color of the sky, lilac and pistachio green, like sorbet; a yellowish moon, pale and round, without a halo, hovered there in the daylight.
An entire universe, hitherto unknown, opened before Ada, a world whose colors were so dazzling that reality paled in comparison and faded away.But I can’t forget, I can’t.
“But I’m not a woman,” she thought.

FRom BBC Radio 4:Omnibus. Made for 4 Extra. Ada grows up in the poor Jewish pogroms of the Ukraine. Fate, finance and love cruelly collide, changing her life forever.
I am always amazed at this writer's insight into Jewish as well as gentiles' emotions.
I seem to be reading a lot of books recently that don't impress me as much as other books by the same author that I'd previously read.
I was astonished by how articulate and unlike-a-draft Suite Française was, but Dogs just didn't give me that feeling of "how did she *do* that?" The story is fine, the characters are fine, there just wasn't any...magic.
Bear in mind that when I give 3*, it really does mean "I liked it", so I'm in no way saying this isn't a good book or that I didn't enjoy reading it - I was just a little disappointed, and I seem to have trouble pulling myself away from my own expectations.
Brava, indubbiamente.Mi sono chiesta se non ci fosse un tocco autobiografico nel descrivere Ada, la bambina e poi la donna autonoma e determinata appartenente al lato sbagliato della famiglia Sinner.
È una storia dura con una sorta di lieto fine solo per Ada, che (view spoiler)[trova quiete nell'amore di un figlio, l'unica relazione della sua vita in cui può usare onestamente il pronome "noi" (hide spoiler)].
The way she writes is just sublime, and I am so glad that her translators respect this and reflect it in their work.
Everything about this story is exquisite – the writing style, the descriptions, the characterisation, the dialogue, the way in which characters forge relationships with one another, the settings… I absolutely adored the author’s portrayal of the sharp divide between opulence and poverty, and how it has the power to affect an entire family.
Ada, the protagonist, is just adorable, and it was a real pleasure to see her grow as the book progressed.
The Dogs and The Wolves is certainly my favourite of Nemirovsky’s books to date.
Una donna, due uomini. Tutti e tre ebrei e legati dallo stesso cognome. Harry vive nella parte alta della città, dove stanno i ricchi. Ada e Ben, in quella bassa, dove stanno i miseri. I cani e i lupi. Le loro vite si incroceranno presto e questo segnerà il loro futuro. In modo semplice e scorrevole , come sa essere la buona scrittura, sfogliamo le pagine della loro vita, della loro condizione di ebrei nell'Europa del primo '900.Credo di aver detto anche troppo. Anzi no. Leggetelo!
Che differenza c'è tra i cani e i lupi? Geneticamente non molta, ma caratterialmente c'è un abisso, e i cani non possono vivere da soli nel vasto mondo, non ne hanno le risorse.La stessa differenza passa tra i cugini ebrei Harry e Ben, e tra di loro c'è Ada, lupa a sua volta, ma attratta dai cani.Ma ognuno verrà irresistibilmente fagocitato dalla sua natura e dal branco a cui appartiene.
Very disappointing. Being a child (great, great grandchild) of immigrants who escaped from the Ukrainian pogroms I was full of hope... Tyhe characters never really developed from one-dimensional set pieces.
Cosa dire ? Assolutamente da leggere perché è magistrale . Irene Nemirovsky non delude mai , riesce a creare in modo impeccabile sia i personaggi che le ambientazioni; in questo romanzo c'è una piccola vena di speranza che però alla fine viene infranta a metà ma poi ritorna sul finale. Leggetelo
A Romeo and Juliet type love story about love against the odds of class and poverty, this story is beautifully written. Achingly sad, I gave it three stars.
Um romance escrito de forma simples, vivido no corpo de uma jovem simples, e com uma vida dura, uma mistura de platónico com real.
La autora relata las peripecias de una joven pintora ucraniana en el París de los años treinta.
Hay amor, hay conflicto entre clases sociales, se ve el drama de la inmigración, el sentimiento de ser extranjero en todas partes.
El dinero se mezcla, una vez más, en esta trama que no deja indiferente a nadie.
Un culebrón que no pasa de moda.
Nemirovsky sabe meterse en la psiquis de los personajes como nadie.
Llega hasta el corazón de ellos y te muestra aquellos sentimientos humanos que todos llevamos dentro pero que son muy difíciles de describir.
La autora lo hace con maestría.
4-*
Yet, he is a widower and has to rely in his widowed sister-in-law, Raissa, and her brood, who have come to live with him, to raise Ada. Raisaa has upwardly mobile plans, especially for her older daughter Lilla, and is an uncaring caretaker of Ada. Harry Sinner is the rich Jewish relative living on top of the hill whom Ada falls in love with when she flees to his home during the height of a pogrom in the lower town.
Este livro narra a história de Ada uma jovem judia que se apaixona por Harry, com quem partilha a religião, mas não os meios de fortuna.
O enlevo de Ada por Harry começa na infância de ambos e é durante muito tempo platónico.
Ada tem, porém, talento para a pintura e é dessa forma que entra na vida de Harry.
A paixão platónica de infância, que o tempo não apagou, acaba por encontrar terreno para a concretização.
Mas quando analisamos mais detalhadamente, percebemos que quem toma as decisões são as mulheres que o rodeiam: a mãe, Laurence e Ada. O final da narrativa põe termo àquela que é uma das características de Ada que perpassa todo o livro: uma imensa solidão.
Nemirovsky, the daughter of a wealthy banker, was born in Kiev and grew up in France where she found success as an author before the second world war brought an end to her writing, and her life.
The story is episodic and huge jumps in time keep happening, with characters given a central role then dispatched in a brief sentence.
Many of the stereotypes of the Jewish characters are uncomfortable reading, with lots of mentions of hooked noses and avaricious hunting for wealth.
Despite trying to read it from the perspective of the author's life and times I struggled to get much pleasure from this book.

This book was chosen for our book club and from the moment I read about the author's life, I was intrigued.Irène Némirovsky was of Russian-Jewish origin and one of the many victims of the Final Solution.
She was killed at 39 in Auschwitz, the largest concentration camp in the Nazi occupied Poland.Her wealthy family fled the Russian Empire at the beginning of the Russian Revolution in 1917 when Irène was only 14.
Her novel, The Dogs and the Wolves, echoes Némirovsky's life and depicts her vision of the essential spirit, soul and eternal condition of the Jewish race.
A fascinating novel which is dark and focuses on immigrant Jews and their displacement in society.
This is, I think, one of Irene Nemirovsky's best novels.
The translator points out at the beginning of the book that in French there are multiple translations for the for the words wolf and dog.
In spite of her frustration with the differences between languages, I think, the messages and nuances in the book are terrific.
The plot is interesting and the differences between the rich and poor classes are well defined.
This is the story of the Sinner family, who through the generations have become separated and one part of the family is wealthy and the other the poor relations.
