https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30331.In_the_Forests_of_the_Night
And strength and eternity… (c)Q:I simply bring myself away with the ability that only my kind has—the ability to change to pure energy, pure ether, for the instant it takes to travel in that form to another place.
(c)Q:I simply bring myself away with the ability that only my kind has—the ability to change to pure energy, pure ether, for the instant it takes to travel in that form to another place.
I do not think, but add the black stripes to my own tiger-gold hair."Look, my beautiful," I whisper.
For a 300 year old vampire she doesn't appear all that bright and is completely ineffective for the majority of the book when it comes to dealing with Aubrey.
The glimpses into Risika's past as she learns to live her life in darkness are much more interesting than the present bits with Aubrey.The writer was only thirteen when she wrote the story (according to the blurb) and, to my jaded eyes, it shows.
There was also an odd sense of emotional detachment throughout the book and I never felt like I knew any of these characters very well.
(Personally I think he had the hots for her, but gave up at some point and just decided to enjoy being strong and tough.)On the other hand the reader can also be caught up in Risika's love for tigers.
And on one hand she did assume she saw him killed, but the reader can still tell he is behind certain things, not Aubrey.)Overall the plot of the book, which is what whoever is reading this probably cares more about, doesn't just focus on the current events of Risika's life.
But as her brother looked at her as if she were a monster, Risika has an epiphany and basically says I am who I am, not who anyone wants me to me.
Loved it!!
A very short book that moves immeasurably slowly. Most of the book is told in flashback, telling the backstory of how Rachel became a vampire, and how the 3oo-year-old grudge of hers began. There is barely any plot (if any?) as most of the book is background information. Kind of disappointing, but it's held up well by Atwater-Rhodes' lovely writing.
3.5 stars to this good including a bonus star for not including romance, handsome vampires and werewolves.*Spoilers Ahead*This book is about Risika, a vampire who doesn't want to be a vampire.
In this book, vampire can take the form of different animals, make themselves invisible to humans and many other powers which depend on their vampire mother.
While these powers are different from usual clichés, there were many loopholes in this book.
You reach at a point and Risika will tell you that vampire can be invisible to human and after some time, vampires can do that too.....
Well...So far this book is switching between the present, and 1701.
She was killed when a very powerful vampire, who had been attacked by her brother, decided to choose her as her next victim.
After she was killed she then was forced to come back as a vampire.
Thats as far as i've gotten, but i am eager to read on.
Latly I've been having this problem where, even though i've never read, seen, or heard it before, I just know what will happen next, and so far i haven't been wrong.
“I am one of them.I am also Rachel.I am Risika” (view spoiler)[Let me just say that In the Forests of the Night is a pretty quick and easy read.
Risika, formally known as Rachel, is a 300 year old vampire.
Risika is a motherfucking bad ass.
Aubrey basically thinks he's the shit and that he is stronger than Risika.
Aubrey is no Risika's little bitch because she is actually a lot stronger and smarter than him.Now Alexander can take his judgmental ass and leave Risika alone.
I loved this book.I can't wait to read about what else these crazy vampires get into...
But rather than launch into the dissection, I'd rather point out that the book was published when Atwater-Rhodes was 13 years old, and for a vampire novel written by a 13 year old, it's pretty damn good, or at the very least, peppered with a rather lot of small endearments.
As for the book's missteps--an annoying structure which hops us between the past and the present every other chapter and a plot line that just sort of plops itself in your lap without any sort of development at all--these are, methinks, a result of the fact that Atwater-Rhodes was pretty new to the whole writing thing when this came out.
It's a young adult novel with no young adult themes.
Sure, there's a lack of romance or sexuality in it, but it doesn't make it young.
The writing is obviously done by a young woman.
She felt this connection of love to an animal, but I never understood exactly why.That being said, at the end of the novel I still feel this compulsion to want to read on.
The first novel gives no reason to continue a story and yet I want to know.
She did compel me to want to read, but she didn't compel me to care.
It was fine enough for a short novella but there wasn't enough of a story here.
The lead girl Rachel was well written for the type of person she was but the emotional impact would have been better with another person.
I appreciated that a teenager in the 1700's wasn't unrealistically educated with the exception of her admitting she was outspoken for the time period.
I also understood why she didn't develop relationships.The tiger was promising but the brother relationship was underdeveloped.
Kudos for believeable characters (with the exception of her twin brother Alexander) and vampire mythology.
The emotional impact from the climax just wasn't there.
Goodreads just recommended to me a book by Atwater-Rhodes, and I had a flashback to how much I enjoyed this book when I was in middle school.
What I remember: a strong female protagonist, shapeshifting vampires, general incivility in the vampire populace, and good old fashioned revenge.
This was a story I encountered long before the trope of 'stuffy moralizing vampire falls in love with teenage girl' nonsense.
At least, I don't remember any of that.
But I do remember scenes and moments.
Though perhaps blending into the recent flush of vampire lit, the strong female protagonist makes In the Forests of the Night a candidate for solid YA.
Can't get into the characters. Written a little strangely...but...The premise is just interesting enough to have me want to see how the second book continues. If the second one isn't at least some improvement I'll probably skip the others..And a very very quick read. I don't do this often but I changed the stars on this one-- I just found out the author was 13 when she wrote this book-- that made me see it in a different light!
There is the present day story that follows Risika as she settles into life, but is interrupted by the one person from her past that she cannot stand, a vampire named Aubrey.
And will Risika be able to finally stand up to Aubrey or will she die for real this time?One of the things I really love about this book and the others set in this world, is that the vampires are still dangerous.
The Risika that we see at the end of the book is a very different creature than Rachel, and this is a fascinating thing that is often overlooked in many of the modern vampire tales.
And also jumps between 2 times, back in the 1700s, (view spoiler)[explaining her family, the cause for her change, and how she deals with it (hide spoiler)] and the present time, (view spoiler)[showing how she's matured.
(hide spoiler)] It never occurred to me that (view spoiler)[Alexander would be alive still!
(hide spoiler)] I love the (view spoiler)[vengeance between Aubrey and Risika, and I just really hope it doesn't turn into a relationship :/ I love the way Risika took his blood, making herself more powerful than him.
(hide spoiler)] I love Risika as a character: she's compassionate, follows her morales, is fiercely protective, and also smart.
Yup, still love it. This book is like home to me, there's no way I can write an impartial review. I'm so happy I'm still able to love and enjoy it after all these years.
First let me say that I took no account to the fact that Amelia Atwater-Rhodes was only thirteen when she wrote this book until after reading it.
While this was written years ago and I'm not the typical target audience, yet I still enjoyed this book.
Nevertheless the book was still enjoyable and my favorite parts of the book was the interactions between the protagonist and antagonist.
I don't know if there is only one version or more, but the one I read had the chapter number is small print, and either NOW or the year (i.e. 1701) in larger print.
The story is about Risika a three hundred year old vampire who doesn’t get attached to humans who lives in Concord, Massachusetts.
When Rachel encounters her brother one night in the dark her life changes forever when she meets Aubrey and Ather.
Ather transforms Rachel into a vampire forcing her to feed to live even giving her the name of Risika.
Is she stronger than Aubrey?Risika isn’t your typical vampire after losing her humanity and brother she has shielded away loving anyone but she does find love from a tiger in the zoo.
So.....It was dark and creepy and scary.
She is a vampire and the parts where the author describes her "feeding" is very very creepy/scary.
Her dark attitude is a sign that she is a vampire and sets the mood for the book.
It is dark and creepy.
They say that vampires live forever, but how long is forever?
They don't really say in the book how to kill a vampire, but that's not what I want to know.
I want to know how long vampires last.
But I can't help asking those questions.So that is it..........a very dark, creepy, scary book.
I will start out by saying that I read this book after I read 'Demon in my View' (yes it still made sense)With that out of the way, Demon in my View lead me to read this one, I only gave it three stars (as well as demon) because while the writing was exeptional (and somewhat cliche/overdone/juvenile at points) and there was a real story line, there wasn't enough!
While that's all good and well, I don't feel that you can get attached to the characters in the way you should using that method.
She knows the only way to survive is to kill him but is she strong enough to do it?This is not a particularly exciting book.
It is a short novella about this vampire who wants revenge on those who turned her.
You get a short chapter on her thinking about this followed by a brief bit about her past, then she threatens the vampire a bit, then we see a bit of the past and so it goes on until the grand finale.
It's not exactly a big exciting fight and the ending just drifts into nothing.
To be honest, I wasn't expecting much from this.
It was written when the author was thirteen, and it is impressive that it was published, but the writing was very amatuer.
As for the plot, it was pretty nonexistent.
I'd say Amelia Atwater-Rhodes is one of my reading guilty pleasures, since she isn't an amazing writer but her books are pretty entertaining.
They are quick reads, light and fun.
I'm debating about whether or not to buy the bindup of the first four books in this series on Amazon.
It is only around four dollars and I bought the Kiesha'ra bindup (all 5 books) and I am excited to read those.
This book really shows how someone who would of turned into a vampire would feel.
The whole book goes back and forth from the present to the past.
She lived in the 1700s before she was turned.
After finding her brother is killed she's turned into a vampire and struggles with having to kill to survive.
In the present she doesn't really stay to long with people so that they don't notice that she doesn't age.
She has to face a vampire from her past that she believes is far stronger then she is.
It was a really great book which surprisingly was written by a 13 year old.
I didn't understand this book.
What point did it have?
Mostly it just talked about a vampire chick and about her past, how she got turned in to a vampire, and her feud with her arch-enemy, Aubrey.
I'm sorry, but despite Atwater-Rhodes age, her writing SUCKED.
I'm the same age the author when she published In the Forests of the Night, and even I can write better than she can!
(I'm sorry if I sounded full of myself there, but its what my sister said) You can tell she probably wrote it in a couple days and decided it was good enough to haul off to a publisher.
i thought this book looked interesting, and then when i read on the back that it had been written by a thirteen-year-old, i became even more curious (being a teenager myself, who wants to get published).
i read it pretty fast; it was good.
was it amazing?
but it was impressive that she wrote it at such a young age.
have i written anything just as good or maybe something better than this?
i think there was just some coincidence where the author's english teacher just HAPPENED to be a literary agent.
too bad that can't happen to ALL of us teen authors.
Midway through the Forests, the lead character - Rachel?
Risika?
MarySue?
- poses the question: "What happens to the damned when they die?" Well, sweetie, they end up in novels like this.
Atwater-Rhodes shows us more of a snapshot than a plot here, and it's the kind of pic that ends up gracing a MySpace profile.
Credit for being marginally better than her second novel.
Demerits for attempts at literary pretension without the skillz to back it up.
(C'mon, Blake's Tyger?
That's all you've got?
Call me back when you get past page three of the Norton Anthology of the Top Five Hundred Poems.)
In the Forests of the Night was a book I had been looking forward to read. I am glad I checked this book out at the library instead of buying because I would've demanded my money back. The book was boring and short. I felt like I wasn't getting the complete story and that the book wasn't really even book. I wished the book would've been better, but I'm still going to try to read the other books in the Den of Shadows.
This book was worth reading. I couldn't put it down, but I had to go to sleep. But the book over all was awesome. I think that the book might have god-modding, meaning that the character(s) acts like an invincible person. I say this because of the part where Risika battled Aubrey. I think that her brother, Alexander, shouldn't have hid himself from Risika. I recommend this book for Twilight lovers or vampire, magical being types. This book was over all good.
DNF. I tried to give this book a fair shake but then i realized i was writing my review in my head already and not even engaged in the book anymore so i figured there was no point in finishing. Not all the sentences are simplistic but i kinda felt like i was reading a see spot run book. Maybe it was because it was written in 1st person present tense which isnt a format i really like. Add that to the fact that i was halfway in and there was still no plot? Pass.
I feel bad giving this book a low rating because I try to be nice to writer's, as I am one, and in the author's defense she was extremely young when she wrote this. But honestly this book was one of the reasons that I try my hardest to stay away from vampire books. The vampires turning into animals was a cool touch but besides that this book was way too full of vampire cliches and frankly that really turned me off.
