https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/820816.Richard_Scarry_s_Best_Word_Book_Ever
However, this incarnation has none of the sense of fun found in the Scarry books I read as a boy.
There are pages of airplanes, cars, zoo animals, firefighters, things you'd find at the beach, and facial expressions.
Each page is so very busy that perhaps I missed him, but I looked and looked for such a long while that Emma went off to entertain herself elsewhere and came back some time later asking, "Did you find him?!" Yes, that exclamation point is necessary.
I'm no Richard Scarry scholar, but it would seem he started off staid and later amped up the good times.

CLASSIC AND ALWAYS FUN TIMES WITH RICHARD SCARY!
This is my most favorite book ever!My father bought me this book since I was so young that I cannot remember a thing.As far as I can remember, I always carry this book with me in my early childhood.I always have this book on my shelf until now. It's on the spot that I can reach everytime I want to open it. I suppose I'll never get bored of this beloved book! It taught me to read and write. Moreover, it taught me to draw. The great inspiration for me to learn art.
When I was four and a half, I taught myself how to read and write with Richard Scarry books; I would make grocery lists featuring all the items from this book we should make sure to purchase; lots of fruit and sugar.
Ma fille ADORE ce livre (et moi aussi - j'en ai des beaux souvenirs d'enfance et j'aime encore beaucoup le lire comme parent). L'inconvénient c'est qu'il n'est pas cartonné et qu'elle est un peu jeune, alors j'ai toujours peur qu'elle l'abîme. J'espère qu'on va le garder pour plusieurs années.
Seeing the cover brings back a deluge of memories! This book started my lifelong fascination with animals dressed as humans. I like it if they talk, too.
I dislike Scarry's style, I dislike the 50s gender roles, and I am disturbed beyond words to see a pig working as a butcher.The Offspring, however, both like this as toddlers.
Love Richard Scarry!!
I love Richard Scarry books. They are dazzling with richly developed characters who do really funny things.
This book is brilliant! Most word books just have you identify the objects but this one has a story to accompany the lessons and question prompts. My two year old really enjoys it and it's so good to see how his language is developing, each time we read it he is able to pick more out from the illustrations. I especially love how there are some really complex words in different categories so it's a book that shall grow with him.Have to say though, the pig buying bacon is a little odd!
Bought this (in English) for a 3 year old German-speaking child to familiarize her with the concept of a different language and to give her a first few words in English.It certainly raised her interest. Mission accomplished :-)The drawings are just too cute!
There is a word for practically every noun that can be seen in this book! That's what makes it so educational and entertaining for little ones! I love the pictures, so endearing! I don't know a child who wouldn't be entertained and amused by this fascinating book! Kudos for Richard Scarry!
Classic Scarry- reassuring telling of a child's day with pictures full of interesting details and humour.
As a child I liked the pictures but never understood why I'd want to read a book of random words.
read through with my kids. I enjoyed seeing how things have changed over the years.
Ok, if you are in the 2 and under set you will LOVE this book. If you are the reading adult, you may want to hide it.
I owe my English language skills to this book, loved it and I am passing it on to my child.
If you have been following my son's book reviews over the years (or rather, the reviews I am writing for him until he is old enough to actually write) you may notice that it appears that we are reading significantly fewer books these days.
My son is obviously having the same experience, because he'll just sit and look at a page for ages, asking me questions and repeating words as I say them to him.Yes, it is a little bit dated at this point.
They have delightful illustrations that are full of color and movement; in fact, his page spreads are unlike other picture books.
It might take a page or two before your eye and mind adjust.And you don't really read Scarry's books for a story either.
They're more discovery and exploration books - so make sure you have time to take it all in.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!

This is the revised edition of the book.
but you can tell that because bows were stuck on their heads, so not exactly a gain for feminism) and some probably not (the vocabulary was watered down).However, even with that in mind, this is an awesome book for the toddler and the early reader.
There's labeled pictures of very close to everything under the sun, in categories, and there's extra text on each page asking questions or asking the child to identify subcategories (for example, on the page of small things the reader is asked which of those things are commonly put on a wall - a great way for mom to get some quiet time while kiddo pores over the book!)
I remember having this book when I was young.
I especially enjoyed looking at the pages of the cat family household and the Thanksgiving dinner meal.
This book went with me everywhere for months.
There are so many words and pictures and the active hustle and bustle of everyday living displayed in this book is captivating.
You can always find some activity happening in the book that you hadn't noticed before.
Each time you open the book there seems like you find something new.
I had to have this book as part of my children's collection of books.
I LOVED Richard Scarry books growing up...they are super busy, and filled with eye candy!
Everywhere you look there is something going on :) I have the entire collection to share with my daughter now, and they are really fun to look back on.
My daughter is 2 1/2 and sometimes i see her just sitting in a corner looking thru all the pages on her own.
She loves books...and im happy to share some of my childhood with her thru Richard Scarry books :) What can i say...im a lover of well illustrated books, and this is one of them!
This is the best book ever!
PERIOD.
End of story.
You can learn a lot with this book.
You learn how a little bear wakes up in the morning and what he eats for breakfast.
You learn how the rabbit family lives.
At the zoo, only tiny itty bitty mice named GENTS go there to see the HUGE animals.
Must be flooded sometimes with all the drooling the caged animals make.
But hey, I don't want to spoil the book for you.
You'll just have to read it yourself to figure out the difference between city and country living.
Written and Illustrated by: Richard Scarry Genre: Non Fiction Age Level: P Date: 1980Summary: The book is a random book of subjects that have words and pictures to match.
In every page there are over 10 different words and 10 pictures to match.
Scarry gives the readers reason to wear his books out and I think that is why he filled his pages with many words and pictures to look at.
This book is filled with colorful, creative pictures that help you to know what the words are saying.
This book could help younger children to read and even spell.
Hmm ... this is a tough one for me to review. I imagine that this will appeal to some kids more than others. Maybe young introverts would appreciate the detail. (I'm currently reading "Quiet" by Cain with is about introversion.) Instead of using a book, I usually do vocabulary building with our real-world experiences. After I've looked at this with some young children, I may want to revise this review.
This book carries strong memories for me from my parents reading it to me before I could even recognize the words themselves. This is certainly a book for pre-readers, but Richard Scarry's inclusion of some more difficult words led me to know some of those words before others my age did. I regard this book with much fondness, and still enjoy looking through the pictures and identifying all the words.
It is the very best word book ever and is perfect for teaching print awareness and vocabulary skills. Looking for the worm and discovering new things every time you open the book keeps kids ages 1-3 interested through each page. It's also nice because it's not necessary to read through the entire book in each sitting. Kids have more control over where to start and where to begin. This ability to "control" the book is a great way to encourage print motivation in the younger children.
I love the fact that Richard Scarry books always have such thought out detail. We love looking for Lowly Worm on each page, sometimes he is even on the same page more than once. It is a race to see who can spot him first! I really liked these books as a child, and enjoy reading them for the next generation to enjoy.
