https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/157076.The_Most_Dangerous_Game
A Goodreads Pop Quiz:QUESTION: What do Gilligan, Jean-Claude Van Damme, Homer Simpson and this Star Trek alien** have in common? ANSWER (select the one that best applies):1. None of them could act their way out of a puff of smoke.2. They all starred in adaptations of Richard Connell’s famous short story “The Most Dangerous Game.”3. They are all very happy NOT to be Jan Michael Vincent. 4. All of the above.Yes, it was an easy, soft ball of a question; the correct answer is 4. **Removing the last
They all starred in adaptations of Richard Connell’s famous short story “The Most Dangerous Game.”3.
Big game hunting expert and luminary, Sanger Rainsford, falls off his yacht in the Caribbean and winds up on the island of Dr. Moreau General Zaroff and his towering, gigantinormous Cossack servant Ivan.
General Zaroff, a fellow hunter and admirer of Rainsford has grown bored with the ease of murdering even the most dangerous of big game.
General Zaroff is a wonderful nemesis and Connell’s development of him at the beginning of the story was impressive.
Connell's short story, while not having the feminine character or her brother, is equally atmospheric, and terribly exciting.Big Game hunter and writer Sanger Rainsford and his friend Whitney are aboard a yacht somewhere in the Caribbean, on their way to Brazil to hunt jaguars.
The talk of Rainsford and Whitney turns to the hunt, and it is this conversation between the two men about what the jaguar does or does not feel while being stalked that lies at the heart of this tale.Shots are fired, and in an effort to discover what is happening on deck, Sanger falls overboard, making a harrowing escape to said island.
A man accidentally falls off a yacht at night, luckily (or unluckily) close to an ominous, dark island. He soon discovers it is inhabited by a Russian big game hunter who has become bored with his easy success, and has now taken up hunting Man as it proves to be a bigger, more entertaining challenge. Very well written and certainly deserves it's inclusion in the "50 greatest short stories" list.
It’s a dark night when Rainsford, an experienced American hunter is aboard a yacht with Whitney, headed for new hunting grounds.
‘For the hunter.’ amended Whitney.
Whitney goes below to turn in for the night while Rainsford enjoys a smoke of his favourite pipe on deck.
There was a short film also, which I haven’t seen but which is also a classic of its kind, I think.http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0023238/ This is now in the public domain and you can download it on the Goodreads page for the title.I read it years ago and was reminded of it just today.
The Most Dangerous Game, by Richard Connell.
A very short classic story published in 1924.
Regardless of the length, I don't think I have been more scared by any book.
The story begins as 2 friends, skilled big game hunters, are sailing in the Caribbean on their way to hunt jaguar along the Amazon River.
One of the men loses his footing and falls overboard while on a moonlit stroll around the deck.
What happened to him is for you to find out.
I don't do spoilers!
I salute Mr. Connell.
My favorite part of this 1924 story was a brief but satisfying cameo appearance by BORSCH, as in "the rich, red soup with whipped cream so dear to Russian palates". Excuse me for a second while I salivate. "Great sport, hunting.""The best sport in the world," agreed Rainsford."For the hunter," amended Whitney. "Not for the jaguar."  Rainsford is a hunter who (very conveniently for the plot purposes of this very compact story) utters statements such as,  "The world is made up of two classes—the h
"Great sport, hunting.""The best sport in the world," agreed Rainsford."For the hunter," amended Whitney.
Rainsford is a hunter who (very conveniently for the plot purposes of this very compact story) utters statements such as, 
"The world is made up of two classes—the hunters and the huntees.
What they don't share is the idea that Rainsford should become prey in Zaroff's boredom-induced hunting game on a secluded tropical island.
The weak of the world were put here to give the strong pleasure.
This story of murder/hunt for entertainment sake may have inspired The Running Man, Battle Royale or The Hunger Games.
If you're out there for short stories, this one is for you!Short but raised a lot of questions in my mind like what makes human different than animals?Is it the desire that one hunts for fun rather than for food?And the lines of psychopath Zaroff, There is no greater bore than perfection! Oh my![image error]
You can listen to this story on YouTube.I've seen many film adaptations of The Most Dangerous Game, but I've never read it until now. I liked it and I think the ending was befitting of General Zaroff. He had never slept in a better bed, Rainsford decided.
3.5 stars rounded up
It was one of those exercises where the Professor gives you two stories and your supposed to compare them "qualitatively".
You see, I was 30 when I went back to school to get a degree and apparently didn't have the "proper deference" for the professor's....position.
The rabid crazed hunter who, when people end up on his island, forces them to serve as "game" for his hunt.
The story begins when this has been going on for a while and a well known hunter (the sane variety who hunts as it should be done) lands on the island and is in turn forced to be "the game".
One of my favorite stories.
What a thrilling story.
Some of my favorites are:"Ugh!
It's like moist velvet." (Rainsford speaking of the night.)"The best sport in the world," agreed Rainsford."For the hunter," amended Whitney.
"Not for the jaguar.""Don't talk rot, Whitney," said Rainsford.
"You're a big-game hunter, not a philosopher.
Rainsford's attitude is that of many.
The story unfolds and without giving away much ...the plot is a fast paced and edge of seat thriller.
If you want a quick read and adventure story, this one will hold you til the end.
If you don't know it, it is a must-read & is available for free here:http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/The_Mos...There is a scary amount of realism to the story, especially in the time that it was written.
Was it his injury that changed the General or just time & circumstance?
What isn't said is either easily filled in by my own imagination or as intriguing as what is said.The only thing I disliked about this story was (view spoiler)[ Rainsford's use of of his knife in the trap & his chagrin that he doesn't get the General with it.
I read this little short story when I was about 12 or 13 years old, in what we called grammar school, some 50 years ago.
It has always been in the background of my memory as a story that gave me the desire to read and explore the world of literature.
I had to reread this again, and thanks to Bobby Underwood I remembered this great classic and found it.
Thanks Bobby, it was a fun read, one I'll probably read again sometime if I live long enough.
It is a masterpiece of classic literature IMHO.
The Most Dangerous Game by Richard Connell5 stars (Originally 4.25 stars) Update: It's been almost five years since I read this short story as a freshman in high school and recently I read Zodiac by Robert Graysmith.
It's quite fascinating to read such an old short story that has hints of the psychological stamping that most serial killers have: a hatred of others (he is the same race and background as Ivan and undermines his intelligence), feeling superiority, the need to dominate.
The owner of the mansion is a hunter as well and he wants to hunt play the most dangerous game with Rainsford.
I've always enjoyed the 1932 film version of The Most Dangerous Game, but this is the first time I've read the short story that it was based on.
Still, if you're going to borrow a plot idea then you might as well borrow one of the best.Although Richard Connell's story has been filmed many times (& adapted in many ways) it's incredible how refreshing this 1924 story is for its age.
In a world where authors produce ever longer stories it's wonderful to see so much tension conveyed in so few words.
Interesting premise, if it was a full book not a short story.
Is there a movie for this? Because I would pay to see that. A lot.
I cannot recall the reaction I had then, and this is one of those tales that you cannot react the same way once you know the outcome.It does spark some interesting thoughts about putting yourself in someone else's shoes.
An evil place can, so to speak, broadcast vibrations of evil."I'm not sure an evil place broadcast's vibrations of evil, but I do know that we have a tiny voice in our heads that will warn us when we are in the presence of evil.
I have heard that voice, and sometimes even though it is muffled, it is there, hoping it will not be ignored.
Definitely a very intriguing and thrilling read for me! Though it could've been a little longer because it took me only 10 minutes to read this XDRecommends It For: Someone looking for an extremely short read with a bit of horror, thriller, excitement, and just a whole lot of awesomeness!
That led to a discussion about a book that he remembered reading (I use that term loosely, since he is not a big reader, but more of a skimmer) back in high school.
He couldn't remember the name of the book, but he swore it had something to do with games (he even suggested The Hunger Games at one point - lol) and there was a picture on the inside that had a scope and a deer.
It was bothering him so much that he couldn't figure out what the name of the book was, so I googled "book where man hunts people" and found this, and to my excitement, I was able to download and read it for free.
So, the hunter becomes the hunted….What we have in ‘The Most Dangerous Game’ is a fun, old fashioned, boy’s own tale.
The dialogue is clunky and the prose can be kindly called basic, but the sense of by-gone adventure inherent in the tale is such that it's impossible not to be swept along.In other hands this would be a ‘the evils of hunting’ story, but that’s not really the way this shakes out.
Instead, if there is a moral to this story, it would seem to be that when Western machismo meets Eastern machismo, Western machismo wins.
That’s just the kind of unapologetic, manly tale ‘The Most Dangerous Game’ is.
Classy and chilling at the same time - a fast paced adventure full of atmosphere and set on a claustrophobic setting. Also an interesting commentary on how man without God--living with an evolution based mindset--sinks into the sickening mindset of viewing humans as animals and prey to be hunted down and destroyed. Because of the intense subject and some violence - this short story is best for older readers.
It's been awhile since I've seen the 1930s movie version with Joel McCrea, but I think I like the story better by virtue of the lack of padding that was done to make it a feature film. The story itself is a lean and mean little tale of terror, with a simple moral of hunter becoming the hunted and a final sentence that caps it off brilliantly.
I always loved the 'pulpy' type stories we had to read in school more than the serious, cerebral ones. This is a favorite. I loved the irony of the situation faced by the characters in this book: the hunters becoming hunted. Really thrilling, yet short read.
So. Many. Short. Stories.Sometimes these kinds of weird, old school, random books really hook me, but I can't explain why. This is one of them. This story has the most simple of plot lines, yet it does so well to inflict fear and excitement into the reader.I loved the writing. I loved the tension. I loved the plot. I loved the psychopath. I loved the ending.
The Most Dangerous Game is a short story by American journalist and author, Richard Connell. Rainsford is on a boat with Whitney, headed south to do some big game hunting in the Amazon. But a slight accident sees him swimming for shore, and shore is an island known on old charts as Ship-Trap Island. There, encounters a strange fellow and soon finds himself in an unenviable position. A classic short story with quite a twist at the end.
This was a very interesting book, and a quick read. The book was slowly getting more interesting page by page which made me want to read more each time. Richard Connell could have wrote the book a little farther back to give the story more details but it was good none the less. I did enjoy the ending, it was unexpected and had you wanting to read more. Very good book if you are looking for a short read!
Short stories are an underappreciated art form.
"The Most Dangerous Game" is one of those short stories that stays with you for years after you have read it.
I put it in the same class as Shirley Jackson's "The Lottery," which is another story you can never forget.
Connell's story is one you have probably seen adapted in a movie or TV show, in which a skilled hunter is shocked to learn that he has become the prey and that a sadistic hunter is tracking his every move.
It's a tight, well-constructed story that you'll read in one sitting because you have to find it how it ends.
Now, I start teaching eighth grade English this fall, and I am going to try to use this short story.
The concept is so haunting and intriguing to fit in such a short story.
Goosie Scale Rating: 4/10Not crazy stimulating, but the scenes of the main hunt where the hunted was just being toyed with - that got me.
Very eerie.
First Sentence Rating: 6/10"OFF THERE to the right--somewhere--is a large island," said Whitney."The large island reminds me of the island in King Kong (much smaller of course), shrouded in mist and fog.
This whole story is eerie and and this first sentence does it decent justice.
I don't often read things in one sitting, but this was an excellent half hour. The classic story that has been done to death since it's publication in 1925, but it still packs a powerful punch. Very clean, sparse prose with nothing wasted. Apparently this is popular required reading in middle school (according to Wiki, anyway) which is odd considering the subject matter even though it isn't violent in the slightest. My public library cataloged this as a children's book, so I was somewhat confuzzled about that!
