https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/568864.The_Conservative_Mind
If you look closely at the creative thinking of men like Edmund Burke, John Adams, Sir Walter Scott, Samuel Taylor Colerdige, James Fenimore Cooper, Alexis de Tocqueville, Nathaniel Hawthorne, James Russell Lowell, John Henry Newman, Lord Robert Salisbury, Henry Adams, Irving Babbitt, Paul Elmer More, Hilaire Belloc, G.K. Chesterton, George Santayana and T.S. Eliot (among many others) you will find a foundation that transcends partisan politics and focuses on how politics is a mere reflection of culture and not the other way round.Russell Kirk here masterfully delivers a blow for the wisdom and lessons of the history of thought, and anyone serious about the modern day public square is lacking in education until he or she has read this book.
Kirk's encyclopedic knowledge of his topic is incredible.The Conservative Mind is a chronicle of the great conservative thinkers of history, starting with Edmund Burke and John Adams of the 17th century and ending with Santayana and Eliot of the 20th.
Kirk connects the dots between these thinkers, but does not attempt the futile task of aligning their political views.
A political system can be condemned for contradictions, but a history of striving men cannot.I may reread this book, but it has introduced me to so many new thinkers and writings that I'm afraid it will be a while before I make it back around to The Conservative Mind.
Lastly, Kirk seems to nearly regret the extension of the franchise to common men and eventually women despite living and writing in the mid-20th century.Another key idea in the book is the Burkean conception of order in a society and the corresponding skepticism about change.
If Burke and his ilk help liberals understand the limits of reform and get a better grasp on human nature, then this book and this intellectual tradition are valuable.
Kirk's survey of conservative thought beginning with Edmund Burke and ending with George Santayana is the unfurling of a historical tapestry.
Kirk reveals that to be a conservative is not to be a dogmatist or ideologue.
It is to be a sensible human being with a grounded understanding of human nature and finite limits; to know that one of the greatest sources of wisdom is among those that came before you and your greatest responsibility is to those that come after you.
This book is truly the gateway into the world of traditional conservatism and will be a source of reference that I visit again and again for many years to come.
It succeeds in part, but its ideal audience is the half-converted, for modern readers who do not share its views are unlikely to be convinced by, or even warm appreciably to, authors who spend so much time attacking concepts like democracy, individual judgment, and equality which we hold dear.The Conservative Mind begins with Edmund Burke, writing against the French Revolution, and continues to leapfrog between Britain and the United States for a century and a half thereafter, as the world continue to change beneath the feet of those who yearned for stability.
He detested the nihilism of the French Revolution, instead placing religious belief as foundational to any successful order as characterized by Kirk this way: “Religious faith makes existence tolerable; ambition without pious restraint must end in failure, often involving in its ruin that beautiful reverence which solaces common men...” At its core, Kirk explains, this is because: “Man’s rights are linked with man’s duties, and when they are distorted into extravagant claims for a species of freedom and equality and worldly aggrandizement which human character cannot sustain, they degenerate from rights into vices.” (The searing brilliance of the American Declaration, of course, was to assert that natural rights are God-given, not dependent on the tender mercies of government.)	Kirk elevates John Adams (1735-1826) among the Founding Fathers for his insistence on the separation of powers – which we now take for granted, to our peril.
Not only is this book an education in itself but it is a pathway to much other learning. It will be a constant reference for me.I don't think I can add much to the reviews given by my friends Stephen Hicks and Simon Stegall. So please see their Goodreads reviews.
Our news is brought to us by people who understand little of what they attempt to relate.
Our churches continue to splinter, our civil bonds disintegrate, and a near-majority of adults choose either to murder their children in the womb or abandon them at birth.Russell Kirk can help us understand why the institutions we no longer value are important.
He does little to explain how they might be regained when they are shattered, and when a majority of the populace neither understands, values, nor even longs for them.
If I was not entirely unacquainted with Burke, Hooker, de Tocqueville, and the Southern conservatives, at least I did not understand how great an antithesis existed between those men as defenders of a Christian society, and the Enlightenment theorists as the harbingers of all that makes Modernity dull.
And somehow none of those men made it into the Great Books reading lists.Anyhow, The Conservative Mind boils down to the predicate that, by the 18th century, radical theories of society were arising in direct competition with the traditions of Christendom.
I am no much for reading political philosophy, but I am very glad to have read this. One of those books I knew of and wanted to get around to eventually.This history of conservative thought and those who advanced it is such a good read and so informative. I am rather embarrassed by how little I knew of this history. This book is such a balm considering what passes for conservatism now. We have lost or ignored first principles and think policy decisions is a replacement for it. I was especially glad to learn of Burke and his life.
This is a tome - 500+ pages of conservative history.
I really enjoyed this book and would recommend it to anyone who had a sincere interest in conservative thought.
Aww, isn't that nice?
I espeically enjoyed the sections on Tocqueville and John Henry Newman, as I did gaining a greater understanding of the conservative reaction towards Positivism, Materialism, etc.
I was force fed this theory in grad school but never knew the conservative reaction in its context.
Kirk is obviously a gifted thinker and writer and does a nice job synthesizing eras of thought into digestable portions.
My video review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=duZeG...
In an age when most associate conservatism with the selfish libertarianism of Rand Paul and Ted Cruz, Kirk reminds us that true conservatives seek to protect the "permanent things", the traditions of society, and to recognize that the wisdom of humanity is in the aggregate, not the individual.
Kirk's unwillingness to confront the issue of slavery weakens him a bit when he includes John Randolph and John Calhoun because of their support for local authority.
Kirk claims they stood for the rights of minorities in a democratic age, apparently not noting the irony.
According to Kirk, conservatives are skeptical of all big plans to remodel society or reform government based out of some ideology, doctrine, or a priori plan.
Conservatives respect a nation's leaders because they are leaders, even if they disagree with them: the honor and authority of the institution is more important than the individual, even as the nation is more important than the party.
Conservatives are skeptical of the market, and its socially corrosive tendency to reduce all values to the value of money.
In politics, as in medicine, the first rule is 'do no harm'.
Boy, is THIS guy behind the times.....
Excellent.
Since neo-conservatism actually embodied many of the pernicious tendencies Kirk railed against, he came to distance himself from this more recent incarnation of “movement conservatism” as much as it distanced itself from him.Kirk and the intellectual figures he highlights in The Conservative Mind- drawn almost exclusively from Britain and America-have a deep skepticism of political ideologies and abstractions unleashed on the world since 1789.
Perhaps the greatest genius of the author is his ability to build a cohesive story and philosophy out of so many individuals over two centuries without glossing over or idealizing any of the characters' shortcomings.The biggest takeaways from this book for me were: 1) That the most common criticisms from the Left of conservatism are almost always oversimplified (regardless of their validity) and 2) that the most prominent "conservatives" in politics today are also overly-simplistic and infantile in their understanding of their intellectual tradition.
As such, I'd recommend this book to any serious political thinker regardless of their position on the left-right spectrum.
A wonderful exposition of conservative thought.Never did I know what the word "conservative" truly meant until reading this book. Far from the petty and plutocratic meaning it denotes in The United States today, conservatism is more a mood or inclination than it is a philosophy. It is the recognition of God, natural differences, and a hearkening to the received wisdom of our ancestors. I'm grateful for this book.
Listened to this on my commute. Kirk systematically narrates the major threads of conservative thought and philosophy from Burke to Eliot. I especially enjoyed the sections on Burke, JQ Adams, and Disraeli. Of course one is digesting everything like a baby bird, no replacement for examining the primary sources oneself. There is hardly a word concerning economic theory in case that’s of interest.
The conservative mind is a must-read classic. One of the few books in conservative thought that combines the British and the American conservative tradition. It never overgeneralize each particular tradition and is able to combine historical events and tradition with the timeless principles of the conservative. In the true sense it is universal and particular. I would advise everyone to read this book.
Good, though I wish he gave even a little biographical information on the people covered.
I enjoyed learning more about 19th-century notables like John Quincy Adams, Alexis de Tocqueville and Henry Adams.Kirk identifies the central precepts of conservatism as being a basic distrust in humanity balanced by a faith for and respect in ultimate power, namely God. Conservatives see virtue in a landed aristocracy, and they see value in limited distribution of education, wealth, authority, etc.
In this light the past two hundred years--as liberals expanded suffrage and set up national institutions for education and welfare--have been a long retreat for Conservatives.Kirk feels that Conservatism has a hope based upon its superior morality and its intellectual vigor.
The scope of what Kirk has done here is astounding, frankly, and he did more to turn Conservationism from a hodgepodge of unrelated theories to a intellectually coherent way of looking at the world, solidly based on some of the great thinkers of the past.
If you are opposed to conservationism, you owe it to yourself to argue against the most intellectually rigorous analysis of it that there is, and this is it.The only person in America that I would not recommend this to is Donald Trump, who frankly does not have the mental aptitude to understand it.
Kirk has both a thorough knowledge of the subject and enthusiasm.
Edmund Burke is not the only reason Britain hewed to the conservative path.
The anti-democratic impulse that courses through this book is amusing and makes me wonder why so many American conservatives praise this work.
Then again I am not surprised.I am still on a quest to find a good comprehensive work on the subject.
Kirk is too much the insider, too much the conservative partisan for me to find it here.
The book does have its charms though.
Kirk's selection of personalities is solid and his writing, when he not gushing, is commendable.
This book is an extended essay on what conservatism, in the line of Edmund Burke, is.
Kirk also traces the various proponents of Burkean conservatism from Edmund Burke to T.S. Eliot as well as mentioning others with thinking similar to, but slightly outside of, the Burkean tradition.
For those new to reading Kirk it is probably better to start with his smaller works.
When I read this I had very little knowledge of Kirk, Burke, or any of the people he speaks of and found it difficult to follow.
My only dislike about Kirk's Conservative Mind is his inconsistent remarks about the puritans and Protestantism.
An important exploration of conservative thought. Russel touches on the words and ideas of conservatives beginning with Edmund Burke going on to Coleridge and the Romantics and through to some mid century politicians and thinkers. I think it's an important book for people of all political leanings as it clearly lays out the roots of conservatism and explains its distaste of ideology. It also describes a conservatism that may be lost, an intellectual, nuanced and thoughtful brand of conservatism.
This is essential reading for understanding why major changes in society should not be accepted rapidly--and blindly.
Interesting in its day, but that has long passed. Conservative thought is fascinating, but there are many good, contemporary works on this now available. Worth a look but not deep thought.
Kirk attempts to give Conservatism an intellectual and ideological foundation by analysing what made conservative men conservatives.
The focus here is on Anglo-Saxon conservatism which is indeed very different from other European countries, particularly German and French conservative movements.This is not a book of policy or a guide to governing as it is precisely what it argues against: one individual or movement’s ability to imagine or create a functional system of government.
I imagine this is the reason why, once this book finished, I could not think of a single modern-day republican that could legitimately be considered a Kirk conservative.
The fundamental conservative view is one based on the philosophy that humans need some sort of “ordered liberty” from government with God-ordained natural rights in order to survive peacefully and prosperously in a civil society.
I consider myself a classical liberal who believes that government often uses force in the name of “ordered liberty” that reduces freedoms and human flourishing under the guise of conservatism, but I lean more towards conservatism than progressivism as it is a worldview that better suits liberty and prosperity than progressivism.
