https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9439989-touch-of-frost
SKEPTICAL STACIA IS A LITTLE LESS SKEPTICAL TODAY.  "Bitch," she said. "That was my favorite dagger."She had a favorite dagger? Seriously? And she thought that I was a freak.  3.5 stars. Welcome to Mythos Academy ... Warrior Academy. Oh sure, there are all kinds of mythical races present, but let's get real here : all I could see was a story about who could kick ass the most. This is like House of Night without the raging diarrhea. Meaning : this book still has the fun adventures, but you're les
Also, I felt like a lot of Gwen's insecurities mirrored real feelings that many of us would have had at that age.
(hide spoiler)] It's been a while since I've wanted to read book 2 of a series right away.
The few minor issues :I didn't mind the cliches this time, but there were a LOT more of them than I'd normally like.
However, given the direction of the second half of the book, I feel like this series has potential to bring it in later books the way that VA did.
I freakin' HATED this bookI can summarize why I loathed this book with just a few quotes:"Yucko" (repeated 6 times)"My Gypsy gift" (repeated 45 times- yes I searched for this on my kindle)And for the sentiment attached to quotes like this one (view spoiler)[ "I loved Samson; I really did. But he's a guy, after all, and he's always thinking with his dick. I expected this sort of thing from him. But Morgan and I grew up together... That's why she's going to pay for screwing my boyfriend." (hide sp
I freakin' HATED this bookI can summarize why I loathed this book with just a few quotes:"Yucko" (repeated 6 times)"My Gypsy gift" (repeated 45 times- yes I searched for this on my kindle)And for the sentiment attached to quotes like this one (view spoiler)[ "I loved Samson; I really did.
and reads comic books!
She hates the rich girls and the "sluts" (the ultimate put down in Gwen's book!) and anyone too girly.
Gwen claims that because of her "Gypsy gift" she can never forget anything.
She thinks kissing is icky and says things like "yucko" regularly.
This review may also be found on A Thousand Little Pages.Gwen Frost is being forced to attend Mythos Academy, an elite school set apart to train kids who just so happen to be descendants of various mythical warriors.
Who else is to blame but yourself?Touch of Frost belongs to the new batch of paranormal stories that all seem exactly the same, only with different character names and fantastical elements.
The character with an actual personality was Vic, the ancient magical sword, who has a grand total of about five lines in the entire novel.
In every paragraph we are reminded that everyone in that school wears designer clothes.
She could just touch something and have full knowledge of everything concerning her father.This happens a lot, throughout the entire book.Bad editor, no cookie!But you can have a pumpkin, here it is: Our girl then goes to a special school for magical kids.
Think of Hogwarts, but without the medieval stuff and full of mythological nonsense.There she finds a lot of other magical kids who all have some special superpower and wear designer clothes.
And don't forget the pumpkins.
Ich muss sagen, dass der Schreibstil nun wirklich nichts besonderes ist und ich ihn teilweise schon zu “einfach” fand und trotzdem hat mir das Lesen total viel Spaß gemacht. Auch die Handlung ist nichts besonderes, konnte mich nicht groß überraschen oder so und trotzdem mochte ich das Buch sehr. Wieso kann ich gar nicht so genau sagen. Es war einfach das richtige Buch zur richtigen Zeit. Kein Meisterwerk, aber große Freude hatte ich trotzdem dran.
However, if I were to blurb the paranormal sleutheress boarding-school romance ""Touch of Frost"" I would say ""Likable, but in the direct vicinity of 'meh'"".I feel a little bit like venting, but I am in bed with a cold.
Gwendolyn actually tells us ""Everything about Logan screamed bad boy, from the thick, silky, ink-black hair to his intense ice blue eyes to the black leather jacket that highlighted his broad shoulders."" A thousand things just feel ""off"" to the heroine, which certainly makes her investigate.
Before you say it, I have to bring it on the table myself: I cannot successfully explain what made me read a paranormal boarding school romance again after so many disappointments.
Maybe it's because I'm fighting off the sickness and have no time for nonsense, or maybe I just need to stop making excuses for this.I've never been a fan of slut shaming.
I'm especially not a fan of slut shaming when it's sexist and one-sided.
To Gwen, chicks who sleep around are sluts and whores.
but don't you dare be a chick with big boobs, or it's straight to hell for you!I also couldn't find any spare fucks to give over who murdered Jasmine.
WE GET IT GWEN, YOU ARE A SPECIAL FUCKING SNOWFLAKE who happens to be poor and a geek in the midst of the preppy and rich.
That's not exactly admirable behavior, but to bring it to the front and judge her and secretly slut shame her and have other characters talk about it behind her back is not cool.
Jasmine's not the only character that Gwen names as a slut either, Logan Quinn supposedly sleeps around.
Again, typical teenager behavior, and bringing it up constantly doesn't make for an entirely likable character when it says something that said character is judgmental like that.The book is just all right, the idea of an academy full of descendants of legendary warriors and servants of the gods is nice, but oh god, Gwen does not fit in.
From the first page this author caught my attention and I was eager to learn more about Gwen, Mythos Academy, Daphne, and Spartan-Licious  "Logan freaking Quinn"  Meet Gwen Frost, she's a gypsy, an outcast, a nerd and a comic book fanatic.
I'm eagerly looking forward to catching up with Gwen's life at Mythos Academy now that she's discovered her true Gypsy heritage while shes learning her inherited magical powers, as well as Daphne, and of course   The Spartan-Licious "Logan freaking Quinn" ;)Like what you see here, check out more of my reviews at http://missvainsparanormalfantasy.com/
This book is one of those "Oh I'm the poor, humble girl who has to go to a school filled with spoiled rich kids" books.
Not to mention the 'heroine' also loves to label people with stereotypes such as 'the band geek', 'the slut' and 'the spoiled brat' and so on, such attitude makes her rather unlikable.
Ms. Estep, why don't you take a writing lesson before you start writing anything else in the future?Last but not least, how the murder mystery is revealed at the very end is so cliched and forced---so the bad guy wastes time to inform-dumps the entire evil plan to the heroine, instead of finishing her off then and there!?
Τον τελευταίο καιρό έψαχνα να βρω μία νεανική σειρά που θα κέρδιζε αμέσως το ενδιαφέρον μου… Η αντίδρασή μου μόλις διάβασα τις πρώτες σελίδες αυτού του βιβλίου ήταν χαρακτηριστική…Τα έχει όλα… Ακαδημία (τρελαίνομαι για Ακαδημίες!), απίστευτους πρωταγωνιστές (κορίτσια και αγόρια!), ωραία πλοκή (hello!! Η παγκόσμια μυθολογία είναι πάντα στη μόδα!) και χιούμορ (ποιος δεν αγαπάει ένα καλό αστείο???)…Όπως καταλαβαίνετε, χαίρομαι που ξεκίνησα αυτή τη σειρά και ελπίζω να συνεχίσει με το ίδιο ενδιαφέρον!!
I love the talking sword. Also the heroine and her enemy turned friend. I think this one would make a great tv series. The ending was hands down my favorite part. Everything comes together really well. Also I want some of grandma's cookies.
Ich liebe es... Brauche dringend Band zwei :)
I think the 1 star rating makes it pretty clear that I never stumbled upon what makes this book deserve the praise.Gwen is one of the most detestable characters I've ever had the misfortune of reading about.
That was me in high school and that never had as a result a shortage of friends or cruel rejection from everyone.) And, of course, Gwen is a loner because she's not as rich or as "pretty" or as "special" as the rest of the mean girls in class, when the truth is she actually is, but, of course, she just doesn't know it.
Mein erstes Buch 2016 hat mir sehr gut gefallen! Zum Glück habe ich Band 2 und 3 schon in meinem Regal stehen, sodass ich bald weiter lesen kann.
Das Buch ist aus SIcht von Gwen geschrieben, allerdings gibt es hier sehr viele unnötige Gedankengänge, die man, wenn man sie schon einbauen muss, besser und spannender hätte schreiben können.
Der Satzbau und auch die Wortwahl sind einfach gehalten, dadurch kommt man schnell voran.Zu Beginn lernen wir hier Gwen Frost kenne, sie geht auf die Mythos Academy, da sie eine Gyspy ist und dort ihre Gabe erlenen soll.
Klischee ahoi, aber wie sollte es anders sein ist er der geheimnisvolle Junge, der jedes Mädchen um den Finger wickelt, vor dem sich aber auch alle irgendwie fürchten (wie funktioniert dann das mit den Mädchen?) und der nichts von sich preis gibt.
Ziemlich geniale Geschichte, die mir gezeigt hat, dass es doch möglich ist, die verschiedensten Fantasywesen in einem Buch unterzubringen - ohne sie lächerlich zu machen.Ich bin schon sehr gespannt, wie es in Band 2 weiter gehen wird.Einziger Kritikpunkt sind die ständigen Wiederholungen der Autorin, die im Lesefluss gestört haben, der Geschichte aber nicht schaden konnten.
Ich fand den Auftakt der Mythos Academy Reihe wirklich gut. Einziger Knackpunkt : Wieso glaubt sie nicht an Magie und die Götter, wenn sie selber eine Gabe hat, denn es ist nicht normal Dinge anzufassen und Bilder zu sehen und zu fühlen ? Hinzu redet sie aber immer von Spartaner und Co. Ihre Ungläubigkeit war nicht wirklich glaubwürdig.
now while that would always set off my buttons majorly, what makes it worse is that the love interest is a bloody man-whore.
and we are back on his awesomesauceness.SERIOUSLY!What freaking year is this???*slight spoiler***And of course she had to be brought down and hobbled by the end of the book in a way as humiliating as possible.
***end of slight spoiler*It may be my feminist hackles standing on end, but is this really an appropriate message to be reinforced in a YA novel??It grates me when it happens (all too frequently) in adult romance books, but I find it impossible to swallow in YA.
es war einfach nur so gut *_*
After reading the first book of the spin-off series, I was curious enough to know where the story started so I decided to go back and read this series. I’ve been a fan of Jennifer Estep’s writing for a long time now and I have to say that this series definitely falls in line with the rest of her excellent quality.Firstly, I was most intrigued about the heroine, Gwen in this series. She’s a whole lot different than Rory and I think that’s a good thing. My favorite thing about Gwen’s character i
I’ve been a fan of Jennifer Estep’s writing for a long time now and I have to say that this series definitely falls in line with the rest of her excellent quality.Firstly, I was most intrigued about the heroine, Gwen in this series.
My favorite thing about Gwen’s character is the fact that she thinks a lot like a normal teenager.
It captures the Young Adult essence, but still has the quality of a excellently written novel.The other thing that I think sets this series apart from others is the variety of paranormal species that are present here.
https://youtu.be/eM7_MlR561M
Schöner Auftakt :)
Kleiner Einblick:("Das Auge hatte eine seltsame Farbe, irgendwo zwischen Purpur und Grau, die Art von Farbe, die einen an die Dämmerung denken lässt, diese kurze Zeitspanne nach dem Sonnenuntergang, bevor die Welt wirklich dunkel wird."; "Ich starrte ihr in die Augen - Augen, die weder purpurn noch grau waren, sondern stattdessen die Farbe der Dämmerung hatten."; "Die geflügelte Fraue blieb vor mir stehen und betrachtete mich aus Augen, die weder grau noch purpurn waren, sondern den sanften Farbton der Dämmerung hatten."; "Die Abenddämmerung kroch über das Gras und die Bäume und badete in sandten Purpur- und Grautönen.")Dazu machte sich Gwen Frost, die Hauptprotagonistin ziemlich special.
re-read! War echt wieder gut, natürlich sind mir jetzt eher kleine Fehler aufgefallen aber..ich liebe das Buch immernoch :)
Zum Ende hat es mich gepackt und ich wollte das Buch am liebsten nicht mehr aus der Hand legen.Aber bis es erstmal so weit war hat es leider zu lange gedauert.Kann natürlich daran liegen, dass Mythen und so nicht unbedingt mein Lieblingsthema für Bücher sind.Ich kam anfangs irgendwie so gar nicht in die Geschichte rein und konnte mich mit Gwen nicht anfreunden.Ich hoffe, dass die weiteren Bände direkt ans Ende von Teil 1 anschließen werden und es nicht wieder erst dauert bis die Geschichte mich packen kann.Allerdings werde ich nicht sofort weiterlesen,sondern der Mythos Academy erstmal eine Pause gönnen.
В ней нет ничего нового или особенного, она полна штампов и клише, а еще при прочтении постоянно возникает мысль «Где-то я уже это видела».
И это так дамы и господа, потому что таких книг действительно много – «Академия вампиров», «Перси Джексон», «Расследование Ночного кошмара», «Полукровка» и т.д.Рецепт таких книг прост.
А еще есть герла (иногда парень, если главный герой у нас мужского пола), которая вроде как играет за хороших, но при этом bitch редкостная (Мия, Катарина, Морган).
К тому же, я понимаю, что страдающий герой – это интересно и вызывает больше сочувствия, чем вечно счастливый, но вот хочется хоть немного оригинальности или свежей подачи.
Quick review:Cover: Nice Rating:  PG-13 Thumbs Up:  4Overall: A really unique world I could get lost inCharacters: Well WrittenPlot: Who done it wrapped in a paranormal worldPage Turner: Yes Series Cont.?
Yes Recommend:  YesBook Boyfriend: LoganSUMMARY (60 words or less)I love this author’s adult series Spider’s Bite.
So it wasn’t a stretch for me to pick this one up.
Talk about page turner.
No, there isn’t a whole lot of romance in this one, but it doesn’t need it.For a full review and yummy pic, see my blog post at:http://mybookboyfriend.blogspot.com/2...Audio ReviewTara Sands does a great job with this one.
3,5 Sterne - Mit der Geschichte konnte ich anfangs gar nichts anfangen - Mythen, Kämpfe, Götter? Gar nicht mein Ding! Auch mit der Protagonistin konnte ich mich nicht identifizieren. Dementsprechend hat sich die erste Hälfte des Buches sehr gezogen. Ab etwa der Mitte wurde es interessanter und ich kam besser in die Geschichte rein. Zum Ende hin habe ich das Buch dann endlich verschlungen. An dieser Stelle durfte der halbe Stern noch hinzu. Für mehr als 3,5 hat es aber im Vergleich zu meinen 4 Sterne Büchern nicht gereicht. Hoffen wir, dass die nächsten Bände überzeugender sind!
Reread of a 2014 read.
