https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/825546.The_Trumpeter_of_Krakow
Read this back when our kids were growing up but could not remember the story. Rural farm family is entrusted with a rare crystal for which they suffer complete ruin, yet they manage to escape without losing the stone. They come to Krakow where the father finds work as the city trumpeter and the son, Joseph, also begins learning the art. How they continue to guard their treasure from all who would take and use it for their own nefarious purposes, until it can be given to the King, is the stuff of the rest of the book.
Joseph Charnetski, a fifteen-year-old, travels with his family to Krakow after their home and fields in the Ukraine were destroyed.
Nor is this a story that could be transplanted to another time, as lesser historical tales can be; alchemy plays a great role in this book, as part of the drama stems from Kreutz, the alchemist, and his attempts to find the secret of transmuting base metals to gold.
It’s fun to read, and the brisk pacing and suspense keep the pages turning – a perfect children’s adventure story.
I have no idea why I'm giving this book 2 stars instead of 1. I think mostly because I'm giving myself a bonus star because I finished it in one sitting.
I loved reading about a Krakow that was thriving and a center if education, culture and civilization.
:-) thanks to JK Rowling, they had a schema for the sorcerers stone and since studying chemistry last year, they knew about alchemy, even though this story is so far removed from our own time, they loved it.The only thing I wished was reading about the beautiful Krakow of the author's time (1928) and wondering how it compares to now.
I was expecting to like this book, but not to love it. The ending was so beautiful! I was very touched by the ending. I really want to visit Poland and Krakow after reading this book. The patriotism in this book is very inspiring! The book was simple, but it was also beautiful in it's simplicity.
Um... Predictable ending, Kind of boring
The Charnetskis seek refuge with a local family whom Joseph saved from an unpleasant experience with an abused dog, the man of the house being Pan Kreutz an Alchemist employed by the University of Krakow and his niece Elzbietka .
The two new acquaintances help the Charnetskis settle into Krakow and Pan Andrew is given the job of the night time trumpeter who plays the Heynal on every hour which helps to protect his identity from those seeking to bring harm to their family.
Under the protection of their new home with Pan Kreutz the object was hidden and the Charnetskis were able to start their new life in Krakow.
The Trumpeter of Krakow is the 1929 Newbery winner and tells the story of Joseph, a boy who moves from Ukraine to Krakow with his mother and father in the early years of the Renaissance.
His father is protecting a mysterious treasure and thus they are pursued by a villain who seeks this treasure.
This is probably not a four star book, but it was really nice to read a Newbery winner from the 1920s that I actually wanted to keep reading, didn't feel overly racist or dated, and wasn't just plain boring.
This is definitely better than the last few Newbery books (1922-1928), and honestly, I really wanted to like it, given my SIL's birthplace (Poland).
But I guess the whole alchemy thing took so much away from the story where I was loving the people and the descriptions and pronouncing "Elzbietka" in my head that it made me not like it much.
It was almost as if I was reading two different books.
And I have to say I liked the one about the Charnetskis better.1922-1928 didn't do much for me.
Although one of the characters is an alchemist, there are no fantasy elements.
There were actual "alchemists" in medieval Europe, trying the types of experiments described in the book.As far as the book itself- it's pretty good.
Kelly gets something going for a few chapters, then lets it fizzle and starts building up momentum from zero all over again.Let's face it: most of the people who will read this are taking the Newbery challenge.
For those people, the presence of plot and character combined with the absence of racism will be a welcome reprieve from the other early winners.
I liked the book very much, but I also come to it knowing a bit more about WWI and II than the average 4th grader nowadays.
One reviewer said she read it out loud to her children and that that helped them get into the book more, so if you want your children to be interested, you might try reading it out loud.
Beautiful book, beautiful writing, interesting and dynamic plotting, very well done by the author.
I do recommend it, but know that it will not be everyone's cuppa.
I LOATHED this book. I rarely judge books this harshly, but this book was terrible. Most of the characters were COMPLETELY predictable and very boring. Strong female characters? None. Joseph's mother didn't even have a name. And don't even get me started on Elzbietka, the main female character. The only reason I finished this book was because I had to read it for school. And that was torturous.
This one is an older Newbery classic about Polish medieval history. I liked it OK. I didn't find myself really wanting to reach for it, and yet, it was an interesting topic. I learned a few things. Two stars may seem a bit harsh, but this one just didn't grab me.
Interesting novel so far, but I am noting some pretty giant historical inaccuracies.

Very good on historical details. I never knew how much cultural richness I was missing through my complete ignorance of medieval Poland. The plot idea of the trumpeter finishing the unfinished Heynal as a secret warning is solid as well. The characters are rather flat and undeveloped, though, and the story as a whole is fairly predictable. The writing is old-fashioned, too, but that only increased its charm.I've been on the lookout for good books for boys. This would probably be on the list.
This may have been the best of children’s lit in 1929, but it did not hold my attention.
Rotten Cossacks.Turns out that our Hero’s family (His name is Joseph) has been hiding and guarding a treasure for several generations — the great Tarnov Crystal.
Joseph’s family has been chased from their home and driven to Krakow by a fellow who wants to steal the crystal.
I could say more, but let’s just say that all’s well in the end, and the story was wroth a read.I was troubled by a few things, and I suppose this is part of the time capsule effect of an older book.
However, there is a conversation she has with Joseph where she maintains that women could be taught to read and be educated like men, why not?
Parts of it I liked..
like the historical aspect and parts of it I didn't like..
like the jumping around.
(view spoiler)[ This novel is set in Poland, 1461.
Joseph travels with his family to Krakow after their home in the Ukraine was destroyed.
The family befriends a wise scholar and goes to live in the house of an alchemist and his daughter.
Joseph later becomes a watchman.
The family is shadowed by a rogue, who turns out to be a dreaded Ukranian warlord who originally drove them from their home and is out to steal the crystal.
The crystal ends up being guarded for the king.
(hide spoiler)]
Kelly missed an opportunity to relay some of that historical information in this story.
This feud between the Slavs and Tartars is never fully explained; readers are just told that the two cultures have clashed for a long time - don't bother asking why questions, they won't be answered.
Even when I was a kid and heard this story read out-loud, I knew what to expect later in the book because too much information is told up-front.
Kelly spelled out what readers could expect in lengthy descriptions of his characters and setting.
If the words Ugly American mean anything to you, let's skip what she actually wrote and describe it thusly.Kellly claims to love the Poles but if so why mislead Americans about the country's history?
The University of Krakow was the first to have a chair in Astronomy - in 1400!
They both wrote their scientific work in Latin - the international language of scientists!!!
He did so because the university was the first in Europe to have endowed a chair in Astronomy in 1400.
Stanislav of Skarbimierz, first rector of the law department, wrote Sermones Sapientales, which laid the basis of human rights in modern international law.
The family has no financial means left to continue their journey and must find a way to survive in Krakow while hiding their identity and keeping a mysterious gift destined for the king safe.
The story started off a bit slow and I was fearing that this book was not going to live up to what a Newbery Medal winner should be.
However, that was a short-lived fear and things picked up and will have a you on the edge of your seat as you know the danger is closing in around the family.
(It's still done; look on YouTube.) There are good guys (scholars and alchemists), iffy guys (necromancers -- a great vocabulary word), bad guys (foreign thugs), and a devastating fire.
I was glad that the edition of Trumpeter had an introduction (from 1966) to provide context, though further online research provides evidence that the author may have created the legend of the "unfinished tune." What really, really bothers me is that the family brings the treasure hidden in a pumpkin.
A hollowed-out shell is indeed a good hiding place.
How did a pumpkin get to a farm in Ukraine in 1461?
An action-packed adventure book based on a true story, "The Trumpeter" inspires today with its examples of courage, wisdom, and fidelity to promises made.When you read the book, be sure it's the edition that begins with the tribute to the author, written in 1966.
There we read an interesting history of the book, and also that "Trumpeter" was "the sort of book to pass on as a special discovery," and that "copy after copy had been 'worn to shreds'" when it was published, one librarian had reported.
with my daughters?!) travel some day to Krakow to hear the "Heynal" and to celebrate the Trumpeter's courage.
In medieval Poland, a mysterious jewel is stolen, a family is displaced, and an alchemist seeks the secret of transmuting base metals to gold.
This book won the Newbery back in 1929, and I do see some distinguished elements -- the writing is good, though a little more flowery than is common these days, and there's an interesting plot if you can get through all of the descriptive bits.
The characters aren't particularly fleshed out (the alchemist, a secondary character, was probably the most interesting to me).
Probably only if I had one who was really fascinated with medieval stories.
I loved how this book was set in the 15th century because you don't find a lot of books that are so far back in time and portray the same detail that Kelly did.
I thought there were a lot of unique and different characters throughout the story.
I usually only like modern day books and This was a different kind of book that I'm used to.
I think this was good for the time period but the 15th century is a very long time ago.
Overall, this book was enjoyable for most of the time but it was definitely boring at times because of the time period.
I found it difficult to get into this one despite the medieval historical setting. Perhaps it is the era in which it was written (1920's). That lends a certain style and pace that is a little slower and a tad more "literary". Despite the novel's heritage as an award winner, it would be difficult for me to recommend this to children for fear they would toss it aside declaring it to be too boring. Those of Polish ancestry would likely consider it more of a duty to read and, indeed, quite possibly finding it more engaging than I did.
This one threw me a bit.
I found it a bit boring at first, and then the introduction of magic and other seemingly random elements was unexpected and kind of crazy.
It seemed to spiral to strange places.
Like, did the author have everything planned, or did he just write as his whimsy directed?
Either way, I liked it.
I think.I did really like whole ‘unfinished note’ aspect, and how that played out (my puns need work).
The trumpeter scenes were the most charming parts of the trumpeter book, go figure, but they seemed to begging for a larger role.
This story was much better than I anticipated, considering it won the 1929 Newberry Medal. Yes, 1929! We read it aloud to complement our middle ages history lesson about Eastern Europe and the Russians. It did a great job of giving us an idea about the culture and landscape at that time in a relatively entertaining story. It's a quick read, and I would suggest it for those studying the middle ages.
I knew we had this book around so when one of my dear friends said that it was wonderful, I found our copy and read. I thought I knew the plot, but it turns out that I knew the plot of the prologue. The book was very different than I expected, but an interesting and enjoyable read. I can see returning to it again.
