https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/282356.Hana_Kimi
Still loved it the second go round!This is one of my favorite shoujo mangas ever.
If you’ve never read manga before, the strange, exaggerated mannerisms of the characters may throw you off, but trust me when I say nothing throws your feels around in a glitter machine on acid like a shoujo manga romance.
The series does have a huge gap that might get you a little frustrated (side story lines and frustration at the main character), but the ending brought on the water works.Looking for an in-depth discussion?
Check out this post.===Re-reading!====One of the best manga series I've read.
Early on in my manga obsession, which began in the summer of 2008, I read Hana-Kimi.
My third read through is a bit more balanced, seeing both the good and the bad.Read the full review at A Reader of Fictions.Comments from Second Read:I've actually read this manga a couple of times.
One of the best things, I think, is Nakatsu's hopeless crush on Mizuki.
He's a genuinely nice guy, and his crush on her isn't obnoxious, because she does nothing to lead him on.Sano and Mizuki do have some nice chemistry, and I did root for them both times.
MY MANGA VIRGINITY HAS BEEN TAKEN.#IllMakeAMangaOutOfYouI was mightily confused by much of it, but it's also hilarious and manic.
Crazed, cross-dressing stalker girl possessed with the social graces of a puppy switches schools and countries and genders to be near the guy she loves who she's never met: Sano, WORLD JUNIOR HIGH JUMP CHAMPION, or something else equally hilarious.
Then things get confusing, there's a dog, people are chasing her?
Then she's knocked unconscious?
I don't know I'll figure it out.
Yes, it took me like two whole minutes to figure this out.
3.5Let me get this out first-The Art?
MeeeeeehMizuki?
I dont 'get' her and what the ever hell she's doing.Izumi?
Sounds like a complete prick, if you ask me.Her New Friend Whose Name I Cant Seem To Remember Because Its So Complicated?
This guy is cool.
Not nearly enough of him, thoughThe Dog?
Character.
He's cool.
For now.Despite all this, despite not liking, or exactly approving, with half the characters above and the art being so-so, I liked it.
Also, my instant liking for this manga may or may not correlate with the fact that the K-Drama adaption is one of my favorites.
Pero al releerlo ahora descubro que no soporta el paso del tiempo o mejor dicho está dirigido a una Laly de 15 años, no a la de 30.
Y en este momento solo le veo las falencias u.u La base en la que está construida la historia no tiene ni pies ni cabeza, y muchas de las acciones de los personajes son muy forzadas.
También el dibujo a veces juega en contra y deja varias escenas poco claras.De todas formas, lo quiero leer completo, es probable que en unos tomos mejore (o no xD).
Unless you get Japanese humor and are completely cool with outlandish things happening because shojo.
Like Hana Yori Dango, this manga gave birth to countless dramas and earned praise everywhere and baffled others.
This isn't the kind of story you read for logical things to happen.
SECOND.Her parents are somehow cool with her flying from America (she's half-Japanese) to stalk her man and attend a boy's school because YOLO.
If you understand a lot of the references, it makes the experience more enjoyable.I will however say that I really enjoyed the one-shot at the end of this manga.
I'll give the one-shot a 3.5 and Hana a 3.
Another series that I love. It's your classic Japanese-American girl disguises herself as a boy to go to an all boys school in Japan; all to become friends with her crush who's a high-jumper and funny scenarios happen.
My favorite manga of all time. Probably because its the only manga I've read. But the only reason I haven't read anything else is because I don't think anything would top it. Its a feel-good manga, very uplifting.
Synopsis: This book is about a Girl named Mizuki who ends up developing a crush on a Japanese-American high jumper named Izumi Sano. She likes him so much, that when she finds out that he goes to an all boy school in Japan, she transfers there and disguises herself as a guy, so that she can spend some time with him. ClassificationAudience: 10 +Purpose: Entertain Medium: Graphic Novel Genre of setting: Realism Fiction Genre of style: Idealism Genre of plot: Romance/drama Criticism: I rated this b
ClassificationAudience: 10 +Purpose: Entertain	Medium: Graphic Novel Genre of setting: Realism Fiction Genre of style: Idealism Genre of plot: Romance/drama Criticism: I rated this book 10 + because it’s pretty easy to read.
So far, only two people in Japan know she’s a boy, Sano, and the doctor.
The doctor doesn’t rat her out, because he’s gay and he knows what it’s like to love somebody so much.
I really like the doctor in the book because he’s gay, and I love gay people.
Anyways, if you like Japanese manga, I would suggest that you read this book because it was really good.
I love the title of this series.Anyway, I haven't read the whole entire series, so I'll just give my opinion for those of you scrolling through reviews wondering what manga will be your next favorite read.First of all, I first discovered Hana-Kimi in Asian Drama form.
I LOOOOOOOVE the drama of Hana-Kimi.
The drama is adorable and addicting to watch.
Both the manga and the drama are different, but even though I prefer the drama, the manga is still fairly good.It's a cute comedy about a girl who comes to a boy's school from America in order to encourage her idol (who has quit his sport of jumping) to continue jumping.
I'm not sure about the art at the moment with this manga, which isn't a good sign because that tends to be the highest factor when considering whether to continue a manga for me. Sorry, I just like 'em pretty. I think I'll read the next volume to see where the story goes but I don't know if I'll read the entire series. We shall see.
After numerous re-reads... This first volume is a nice introduction to the characters and the last part totally starts to build the emotions and the care you have all along the series. However, it's messy and, for a first read, it's probably not easy to fully follow what's happening and who are the characters.
قصة بنت تتنكر على شكل ولد عشان تدخل مدرسة اولاد و المشاكل الي تطلع لها بسبب هالتنكر خخخ اشتريت هالكتاب من كينوكونيا في دبي و كان المجلدات الثلاث الاولى مع بعض في كتاب واحدخلصته امس مع اني قاريه المانغا كلها من زمان اول ما عرفت المانغا XDالرسم جميل جداً و يستاهل اني اشتريه وامسكه في يدي و اتأمل التفاصيل على راحتي *_*
i love this series. it's funny and romantic, and barrels of fun!
Who flies half way across the world to join an all boy high school just so you can admire your athletic crush?
This kind of girl:Overly attached girlfriend!What a strange little book.I picked this up because it seemed some what similar to Ouran High School Host Club.
I guess I didn't really feel Mizuki's reason for pretending to be a boy.
And that movie is of course based on Shakespeare's "Twelfth Night", which is also reminiscent of this plot.I am kind of loving the character of Shuichi Nakatsu.
I feel like this is Vampire Knight all over again...
The stares are THAT loud!) Then, I watched (& LOVED!) the J-drama of this series, so I figured that, one day, I would get around to wanting to try to read the manga again, and actually go through with it.
This series is pretty basic stuff as far as gender-bender/crossdresser shoujo's go.
Every guy likes the girly "guy", and questions his sexuality, except the gay doctor and the guy she came for that knows "he" is actually a she.
Sports-based gender-bender shoujo mangas are not usually my cuppa.
But, I did like the little I read of *Power!!* (
She chops off all of her long hair and pretends to be a boy so that she can get close to Sano.
Just a funny story about a girl pretending to be a guy to get close to her idol.
Sano of course finds out that his roommate is a girl but plays along for her sake, pretending that he is clueless.
There is a boy named Nakatsu in her school who is fighting his attraction to Mizuki and he is freaking out over it.
Poor guy has no idea that he really isn't gay, Mizuki is actually a girl.
Mizuki, a Japanese-American student, is distraught when her favorite track and field star from Japan - Izumi Sano - disappears from the lime light and competitions.
To make the situation even more absurd, Mizuki becomes the assigned roommate to Izumi...developing not only into Izumi's friend, but also falling in love with him.
Of course, there are plenty of crazy situations that ensue thanks to Mizuki's deception - including a love triangle - and it's great fun to watch the characters get themselves in and out of such messy situations.
I loved all the characters (though my favorites by far were Nakatsu, the doc, and the American friend- they were hilarious).
It made me laugh and care for Mizuki, Sano and everyone else like they were real people, and - most importantly - it introduced me to the wonders of manga (and eventually anime) and turned me into the Otaku I am today :) Recommended for anyone who is new to manga and/or new to the Shojo genre (though its length can be daunting, it's pretty easy to get into and you're soon hooked on).
It's surprisingly uncreepy, despite that.One problematic element is how they deal with gay characters.
On one hand they have full story lines and characters, and on the others they are often caricatures and comic relief.
Some scenes really bothered me, but on the other hand it's rare to even see gay people with their own plot lines in western media so I can't tell if it's a step forward or backward.
I read this in the midst of a sad personal crisis of my own and scenes made me tear up.
I watched the Japanese live action of this manga, well, because I am a fan of Shun Oguri & Toma Ikuta (a little).
The series is cute and funny.
But reading this gender-bender manga, I can't seem to like it that much.
First, the illustrations, I don't really like it that much.
Maybe it is not the style I really prefer.
Second, the plot, I know how it will go but Mizuki's excuse to pretend is just lame.
Lastly, the excessive characters in one go but it's okay anyway.I'll continue to read this series, maybe I'll like it better.
Another of those manga where the girl cross dresses in order to go inside a school. What makes Hana Kimi stand out are the characters. There's a lot of nutters in that school, which is why Hana Kimi is so hilarious. My only problem is that I found the ending corny and I really, really wanted Mizuki to end up with another guy! *pouts*
The manga that got me started on manga. I loved this one. Unfortunately by the end the beautiful realistic art style had turned into a much more anime-esque style. Very dissappointing for me. But the story never disappointed. Sometimes it went a little of plot and there maybe have been some "filler" type stories, but I really loved this series and will always remember it fondly.
Mizuki enrolls in an all boys school to meet Izumi Sano. There's a problem though: Mizuki's a girl. First watched the show which is pretty good with interesting characters and has its share of serious and hilarious moments. With the first volume, it seemed to go by quick. I still liked the book. Good start.
I love this manga. It's so cute! I love all the characters and how they interact with each other and the whole situation is just hilarious but wonderful when you see all that she is willing to put herself through. (I've read them all but won't list them all)
I know the plot and its premise but I haven't seen any of its live action drama. Why? Because well, okay, I admit, I don't like Ella Chen.And, I must acknowledge the fact that I'm now reading this because of that Koreanovela.
Thank thank thank you Liz! You are awesome and your taste in manga is awesome too, thanks for the recommendation :)
Read all 23 volumes in 2 days, regularly giggling, fist-pumping, and saying emphatically 'that is fantastic!'. If you like Fruits Basket, Dengeki Daisy, Last Game, or Toradora!, you'll like this.
the best shoujo ever!
Wow I was finished this for a while and just didn't put I was done. I enjoyed this. I hope to continue with the next volume.
