https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50452.Run_With_the_Hunted
It's like the Modest Mouse song "Bukowski" says: He's a pretty good read, but who'd wanna be such an asshole?
At least Charles Bukowski came by his assholery honestly -- "born into this sorrowful deadliness" -- not like that overgrown fratboy date-rapist Jack Kerouac.
Bukowski was ostracized in school, abused at home, grotesquely scarred by acne and largely unloved.
Like the last girl at the bar at closing time.
"Run With the Hunted" is sort of a Bukowski Greatest Hits collection of poems and short stories and novel excerpts arranged in a way to serve as a ramshackle autobiography.
Always a joy to hear Buk read, like the voice of an old friend.
Like all of his recordings, this one provides bits and pieces of context between each selection, and his interactions with those others present are both revealing and entertaining in equal measure.
Initially I questioned the producer for including so many retakes when the slurred bits could have easily been edited out, but the end result is a raw, uninterrupted document (with all its imperfections) that makes you feel like you're sitting in on something really quite intimate.I didn't love this one quite as much as Hostage, and of course nothing beats The Bukowski Tapes, but a good listen all in all.
His writing tends to be opaque--that is, the protagonists (usually named Henry or Hank Chinaski, which might or might not signify an alter ego of Bukowski) don't bother to tell us what they're thinking, either in their minds or to the other characters.
Either one works like a dog in a dead end job and lives a straight life, or one holds true to one's own sense of what is enjoyable, aesthetically rewarding.
Self-respect also fails if one remains only a bum, but it's not that Bukowski's characters have no work ethic; they have a strong interest in maintaining their own writing.
After reading his stuff, I usually get a strong urge to be really really adventurous, drink heavily, and "bang" prostitutes in the nearest metropolitan alleyways and get in fights with random people and drive drunk and do other things a 30 year old adolescent might do...Anyways, it is both invigorating and completely delusional/depressing/pathetic/immature at the same time...I suppose I would just rather stick to the stories and drink by myself in my parents basement at the age of 29 in the middle of the suburbs...Now that is "real" living...and much safer...
I don't like quoting Bukowski much cause I think he has to be read in its entirety to fully enjoy it.
Editor John Martin has done a good job of mixing the poetry and prose of the writer from his early days until late in his life.
Still, it is at times a clunky mix, missing the cohesiveness a writer gives a work.
Still, as an introduction to his work, it would be hard to find a better mix.As for the writing itself, you get all the highlights of Bukowski's style.
It is raw, filled with life and obscenity, which nearly overlap for Bukowski.
There too he can be seen consciously holding a mirror to his work, but at times you hear just the writer.
This was the moment I began my love affair and nerdy literary obsession with the works of Bukowski.
He will envelop you in his cynicism, make you want to cry over packs of cigarettes and glasses and glasses of whiskey, and empathize with his unexpected tenderness.“I always felt as if I was going to be sick, to vomit, and the air seemed strangely still and white.
We painted with watercolors.
I liked the lady who taught kindergarten, I liked her better than my parents.”
I enjoyed reading this anthology of Mr. Bukowski's many stories, poems and excerpts from his novels. Charles Bukowski was an alcoholic and many of his stories touch upon his barfly life. With his strong descriptions and wonderful dialogue, I felt like I was right there with him. He also wrote about his working life - working for the post office, and eventually as a writer. He wrote about his experiences freely under fictional characters. He loved women but did not seem to have much respect for him. His stories are rough and not for the timid.
Rarely does a collection do a truly talented writer justice - and Bukowski has such a mastery of words and language, an inherent ability to capture beauty and ugliness and loss and pain with such incredibly vivid detail that it haunts me.
This collection has most of what you need, whether you just want to reread some favorite poems or stories, or whether you are discovering Charles for the first time.
The mad, drunk poet laureate of Los Angeles, the genius bum and drunk, the man is a fascinating enigma, and his work is powerful, deep and personal.
One of my favorite books of all time.
I fully understand the hostility he generates, and I am glad in a way I nver met him.There was a very mean streak in him and he acted dispicably towards many who were his greatest supporters.But the more I read of him the more I appreciate the clarity and incisive nature of his work.Words are like bullets, he once said.
His words can go straight to the heart or the head.There is no floss or artifice in either his poetry or his prose.He remains an outsider even years after his death.
Charles Bukowski shows his life through use of emotion and the dark life of an LA poet, as well as a rambunctious teenager living with abusive parents and horrible acne.
The profound poetry is vulgar and violent, but it comes straight from the heart of Charles i.e. Henry Chinaski.
Or the time Charles had to go and live with his Hell-bent parents for a while, which was a revival of old hate and rude disposition, but he didn't let the crude likes of his Father stop whatever it was he was doing...
In this memoir-esque biography, Charles sticks it to the man, discovers women, evolves into a crabby, dirt poor, Los Angeles poet/writer, and meets a new best friend, alcohol.
What I loved about this anthology is the fact that it was chronological.
Bukowski never truly wrote a detailed autobiography of his life.
Here the author has pieced together the various prose and poetry from Bukowski's life and arranged it in chronological order for us to take in.
This book is best in the hands of a novice as they can read from start to finish the evolution from a tortured, isolated, lonely boy to a tortured, isolated lonely man.
Through all of this pain I see a sensitive man who had been beaten up by life's circumstances and the patriarchy of early 20th century which was even less forgiving than it is today.

Writing about Charles Bukowski — or, even more so, about his work — is like writing about driving in a pounding thunderstorm … or experiencing the sounds and smells of a paper mill running at full production … or walking through the neighborhood you grew up in, many years later, and marveling at how small and shabby the houses and people and cars and even the street-signs seem to have become. One can describe all of these things, of course; but ultimately, the experience itself is irreducible. And that is Charles Bukowski.
He always comes through. It was a delight to be taken through his work in this arrangement. I've read most of his published work and was comforted in seeing the passages and poems I'd read as well as some new stories and poems i hadn't gotten to yet. When the loneliness seems too great, he always comes through.
A nice compilation of poems and novel excerpts arranged by the time period in Bukowski's life that they reflect. Reads like a novel in its own right. Very much enjoyed it.
probably all the bukowski the average person will ever need. a great introduction to his prose and poetry.
One of the treasures of my early book reading past and early love affair with the work of Bukowski.
Some of his boyhood stories are OK; some truly funny : "The Death of the Father"(p.182), "Maja Thurup" (p.199), "No Way to Paradise"(p.256). The so-called poetry stinks. I stand by my previous opinion on Charles Bukowski as expressed in my review of South of No North - see there.
Of course, that doesn't necessarily make it the most obvious choice for new readers to begin with - it was edited together by John Martin, the lifelong friend and editor of Bukowski, but the author himself didn't have a huge amount of input (as far as I'm aware).Still, there are some gems in here - I'm more of a fan of the poetry than the prose, but both are enjoyable and reading the two of them transposed together makes for an interesting, new experience.
There's something unsatisfying about reading a book of selected works.
It's knowing that of all the novels and books published by author, I've completed none, but read excerpts from all.
Otherwise, the book offers a better selection of Bukowski's poems, which I always felt I had to sift through to find one worth reading.
Though I've read much of Bukowski's full novels, this was my first exposure to both his poetry and his short stories.
Run With the Hunted was well crafted and assembled with care, in an order that not only represents Bukowski's many writings, but also in some ways parallels his life.Bukowski's short stories share many of the same themes and forms as his novels, but seem to take on a higher purpose while retaining less of a point.
And more often than not, his poetry reads more or less like flash fiction which happens to be laid out in awkward line breaks; a good story, but you wonder why it was broken into stanzas.
I had never heard of Charles Bukowski when I recently saw him recommended by another author and randomly found this e-book through my public library.
I vaguely remembered reading reviews of the movie "Barfly" years ago and thinking I didn't want to see it.
I'm not sure even now that I would want to see the movie version of Charles Bukowski's dissipated lost years.
Bukowski is most interesting when writing of the lost years before he became a working (sometimes starving) writer.
Two poems that capture the best of both eras are "Flophouse" and "Confession".
Pero aquí tiene extractos bien diferenciados y clasificados de Mujeres, Cartero, Factotum y Hollywood junto con historias cortas de Música de cañerias o Se busca una mujer, con otros poemas de aquí y allí y, bueno, que la excusa de "Eh, que los hemos ordenado cronologicamente" no creo yo que sea suficiente como para desembolsar el importe del mismo si ya se han leido las novelas anteriormente.Así que, eso, si no has leido las novelas ni la poesia de Bukowski y te quieres adentrar levemente en su universo pues vale, pillatelo y saborea los aperitivos de las mismas.
Within his succinct and wry narrative, he chronicles his life in this anthology of both his prose and his poetry.
Interestingly enough, this anthology is arranged chronologically: it ranges from Bukowski's first account of familial life from under the kitchen table as a toddler to his last days.
The anthology is redolent with a yearning sadness, alcoholism, amorous and abrupt sexual escapades, and a genuine disdain for the subnormal.
Yet, Bukowski is strangely sensitive and fragile in an almost childlike way.
Bukowski paints the picture of a genuine, hopeless romantic who only wants love to remunerate him for all he has suffered.
[...]meanwhileI take showersanswer the phoneboil eggsstudy motion and wasteand feel as goodas the next whilewalking in the sun.p. 250, 'claws of paradise'I'm new to Bukowski, but I like contemporary American poetry.
A lot of the reviews already written on Bukowski have analysed him better than I can.
How can a life with feelings like that be tolerable?
The collection is also arranged so that there is a chronological progression through the life of his work.
Even though there are different narrative voices, Bukowski so clearly comes through all of them.
It may have been the womanizing, the raping, or the drinking, but I couldn't handle Bukowski all at one.
Bukowski is like no one I've read before.
I can not like Bukowski, his character is often despicable but Bokowski knows it himself.
The point of his work is not to like him, respect him or admire but to relate to another human in the most basic, sometimes shameful way.
Run with the Hunted was a good read because of the way it was complied.
The excerpts, short stories and poems were not in order of publication but in order of how they related to Bukowski's life.
Bukowski made me uncomfortable, he made me laugh, he made me understand.
Definitely worth a read.
Not for almost thirty or forty years after the events chronicled in his fictionalized partial autobiography, "Ham On Rye", did Charles Bukowski begin to gain any significant acclaim as a writer, only then for his deliberately sleazy (per the editor's direction) column in the L.A. weekly Open City, which popularized his name and launched the groundswell of support which would ultimately make him famous, but seems for the most part to have poisoned him against serious consideration by the academics.
This was the first Bukowski book I ever read, and is still one of the best, since it manages to highlight the best things about him, and never gets mired in the bad ones (as do some of the others).
I find his poetry rather dull, except for this poem titled Rain.a symphony orchestra.there is a thunderstorm,they are playing a Wagner overtureand the people leave their seats under the treesand run inside to the pavilionthe women giggling, the men pretending calm,wet cigarettes being thrown away,Wagner plays on, and then they are all under thepavilion.
the birds even come in from the treesand enter the pavilion and then it is the HungarianRhapsody #2 by Lizst, and it still rains, but look,one man sits alone in the rainlistening.
the orchestra goes about itsbusiness.
the man sits in the night in the rain,listening.
However, each of those at the table with the exception of me, was entrenched in a conversation regarding Bukowski's work.
Later, this book was recommended to me by an entirely different friend of mine.
What makes this particularly interesting was that it's been edited by Bukowski's lifelong friend.
It makes a fantastic book and introduces pieces of so many works that I am now facinated by several of his works and look forward to specific ones rather than a complete shot in the dark regarding which to pick out.

