https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/913207.Georgie
The "About Georgie and Robert Bright" bio on the back flap is great and I reprint it here in case others are not lucky enough to have the dust jacket on their copy (mine is from the library):"Robert Bright's children, according to him, have always liked ghosts.
And as soon as her younger brother Robin began to talk, says Mr. Bright, he made it clear that he felt the same way.
So Mr. Bright has done GEORGIE for Beatrice and Robin--and for all children who, unlike grown-ups, are NOT frightened by imagination."
This is a very sweet and funny story.
Also cute was the welcome mat (with cat and with owl nearby) waiting for Georgie on his return.I loved the detailed black & white illustrations.
I’m not sure how today’s kids will feel about this very sedate story and its old fashioned pictures, but I do think very young children will enjoy it, and will find it reassuring too.This book most likely won’t scare even the most phobic child.I wonder if I just don’t remember this book or if I’ve truly never read it before now.
In a quiet New England village, in the home of Mr. and Mrs. Whittaker, a friendly little ghost named Georgie knew exactly what to do and when to do it.
But when Mr. Whittaker nails down the loose step, and oils the hinges on the parlor door, Georgie's nightly duties become impossible, and he soon finds himself seeking a new home.
I did wonder, as I was reading this, whether Casper the Friendly Ghost - a cartoon character first created in the 1930s - were an influence, but there's room for more than one cozy spook in the world (says I)!
I remember ordering this from Scholastic when I was a kid. I loved the Georgie stories, and was always bouncing with anticipation for that month's book order to come in. Ah... the good old days. And quite possibly the beginning of my interest in the paranormal. Lovely.
This book delighted me, then my kids, and now my grandkids. Good fun.
Now, let me start by saying my goal is to dig up all the books I read as a child as well as new books this year.
You can't get much better than Georgie.Should I be counting such a short book in my goal?
I think that evens things out.I think everyone, of every age should go ahead and read the books they loved as childrens and teens.
I for one and feeling extremely happy right now after finishing this book and now I am off to read Georgie's Halloween.
I've loved this book since I was a little girl, and we still read it with our kids at Halloween. My sister was convinced that Georgie lived in our floor radiators, and used to talk to him through them! :-) Charming illustrations and story!
I got the Spanish version and the illustrations were great. The bad thing is I had no idea what was happening in the book but oh well.
One of my most iconic childhood reads!
entertaining
One of my all time favorite stories from my childhood about a sweet little ghost who tries to find a new house to haunt when the people living in his fix the creaky steps and squeaky doors.
I'm pretty sure I read this as a young person.
Georgie is a friendly ghost that lives at a home. This is good story that is coming to eighty years old. The illustrations are interesting, and it delivers a sense that you feel how old this story is. This is a fun story to read and have in your library.
Georgie the Ghost is a delightful children's book that is unfortunately largely unknown and forgotten. I adored these books as a kid. They still hold a place of honor on my shelves. I recommend seeking these books out and reading them to your children. I'm sure they will love Georgie as much as I did.
I read this when I was in first grade.
My mother read it in third grade.
It became a tradition to borrow this book and its sequels from the library at my elementary school, and we'd read them as the leaves outside turned colors and dropped to the yard.Georgie is sort of like Casper's predecessor, only more adorable, and without a group of abusive uncles-slash-older ghosts.
The plot is simple because, uh, it's a children's book, guys.
But it's utterly charming.
Robert Bright wrote this in the 1940's and it captures the sparkle I associate with media of the time (the radio programs, the silver screen and its banter and atmosphere).
Written in Spanish, Jorgito (George), was about a little ghost who thoroughly enjoyed his routine of walking down the creaking stairs and hearing the squeak of the door each time he entered the living room.
All of Jorgitos' routines helped queue the people and animals around Jorgito to let them know that they had to do something to do at that time, just like an alarm would.
This little ghost is so sad when Mr Whittaker decides to oil all the creaky, squeaky things around the house, poor little Jorgito doesn't know what to do!
The illustrations in this book remind me of all things Halloween, a great read during fall for your Spanish speaking children.
This is such a great book for Halloween.
Georgie reminds the owners of the house when it is time to go to bed by squeking the door and steps of the house.
Eventually the steps and doors are fixed and so Georgie has no purpose there anymore and leaves to find a new house to be helpful in.
And he cannot find any new home.
Eventually the old house's door and stairs begin to squeek again and he returns home.
This is a great book to teach sequence and what happens next if Georgie isn't at home.
Monica Edinger responded to a blog I wrote about Halloween stories, recommending this picture book series about a ghost. I immediately read all eight "Georgie" books in my library and found him a fun character (which came first -- Georgie or Casper?) though the individual narratives were uneven in both storyline and writing. It's interesting to watch how the rather messy original illustrations -- all in blue! -- evolve to add other colors as the books progress over the years.
Georgie!!!! I had forgotten about you and your plight,and your crazy chosen family: the couple who only knows to go to bed when the door creaks, and the cat who only knows to hunt when something else happens, etc. This is also how we know that cows are no fun to haunt, as a ghost. ghost advice via ghost memoir. brilliant illustrations.
3.75 stars  I have never read this story. It is copyrighted 1944 (a smidgen before my time) I love the blue and white hues, it just works. Sometimes the boring monotone books are so blah, but this has enough details without being to much. Like it said it just works!Isn't it nice to have friendly ghosts in your house!!
Sweet and charming little story. I purchased multiple copies of this book many years ago along with the story on cassette for my listening center. Wonderful images come from the orchestra, voices, and sounds of this nostalgic story.
This series is a little treasure. I had found the "Georgie" books on favorite children Halloween books lists. I was intrigued. This book is numero uno in the series. The illustrations are very simple, but my daughter has enjoyed them so far.
My 5-year-old son has just recently discovered Georgie. The ghost has quickly become one of my son's favorite fictional characters, and we relive Georgie's adventures almost every night.
I love the Georgie books! I used to read them to my daughter when she was little. She loved them, too. Nice for little ones, not scary at all.
Loved this book as a little girl and now my son is a fan of Georgie too! This is such a sweet story about a little ghost searching for the perfect home, which turns out to be right where he started.
I didn't grow up with this story, but since it's a friendly ghost, I might have liked it ... I'll read it to a child and watch his response.
Classic
a childhood favorite!
More than likely, this is the book I read in the first grade that made me fall in love with reading.
Love the illustrations. Story is a little weak, but not at all scary for a ghost story. Boy really enjoys it over and over!
