https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/203409.Security_Analysis
The first few times I read Graham I thought it was very dry but I've acclimated myself to him and now enjoy his writing.
Graham's style is like a scientist, if there is any doubt for a method, he will readily illuminate it for the reader.
Graham addresses the qualitative in other writings, but the reader will probably pick up he is uncomfortable and/or apathetic with it and limits it as much as possible.This is 5 stars not simply for the comprehensiveness but the originality.
Graham literally invented most of the methods and ideas in the book.
Reads very much like a textbook, but a must read for anybody considering stepping outside the world of mutual funds and actually investing in individual companies by using a value based approach. This book will provide the basic tools on how to evaluate the intrinsic value of a company, which is the first step in determining whether a security is a worthy investment. Certainly not an easy read, but well worth the time and effort.
And that's why I decided to pick up this book and start learning more about value investing from a classic source.
more often than not the math and terms used in the financial industry are employed to turn relatively simple concepts into seemingly complicated and scientific ideas.
Surprisingly, this book had almost none of that "look how smart my financial ideas are" type of vibe to it.
Overall, if you're like me and want to learn from the ground up, and are more interested in theory, this is the very foundation of contemporary value investment theories
Extremely hard to read, but well worth it.
I feel like this book should be required reading before anyone is allowed to invest in the stock market
True, some of the examples are dated, like the emphasis on railroad securities and some old accounting rules, but the underlying principles still apply today.The book emphasizes concepts, methods, standards, principles and logical reasoning, so it works in the current environment, just as it did when Graham and Dodd wrote it in 1934.2008 was a year of financial and real estate crises which lead to many people seeing huge declines in their 401(k) plans, causing some to note that the days of "buy and hold" are over now.
Not because they are wrong but because the things they are pointing out is of much less relevance in a world where fixed income securities are not mainstay investments, and where fixed assets are less important to a company's wellbeing than it used to be.So what is left?
"The basing of common-stock values on reported per-share earnings has made it much easier for managements to exercise an arbitrary and unwholesome control over the price level of their shares.
One that is very relevant to people tricked into buying stock in the dot com bubble:
The goal is to maintain investment position, so any profit taking because of increase in principal is best avoided and strive to have continuous annual income instead; and only to sell the security when the earning power is likely to diminish or when the price is deemed too high above premium (it becomes speculative).I feel hesitated to read big part about bonds to this book; but the concept of Value Investing itself lies on a thorough fundamental analysis of the company.
Future forecasting and timing on buying are not an action of investment - Graham argued in both Intelligent Investor and Security Analysis.
I read this book (and will be reading The Intelligent Investor) as they are the books that shaped Warren Buffett's career.
This tome is thick and written in the 1920-30s, so it is a bit difficult to read; however, a careful reading will help an entrepreneur better understand how people can lie to you with financial statements.
It was a seminal read for me and an important reading experience.As someone who only invests in private companies and owns no public stocks, I was hoping for a bit more data that would be usable.
Not a waste of time, but much more dated than the Intelligent Investors.
I thought much of the good work done by the Intelligent Investor was weakened by the sanctioning of speculation.
Also overly prescriptive and narrowly framed based on the valuation levels of the day.
It's a little like reading the bible - some parts you can take literally (like say the crucifixion), others you can only take figuratively (like say the story of genesis or noah's ark) and others you must throw out entirely (like say slavery or the Moses-led genocides).
Still worth the read though (but only after the Intelligent Investor)
The authors had seen and survived the Great Depression as well as the political and financial instabilities of World War II and were now better able to outline a program for sensible and profitable investing in the latter half of the century."Security Analysis: The Classic 1951 Edition" marks the return of this long-out-of-print work to the investment canon.
Instead of correcting this shortcoming, a vague essay is offered which mostly rants about the difficulties - giving dated examples, in some cases from the 1980s - so much for updating Graham to today's markets.More alarmingly, one of the contributors notes that a certain practice is "an unacceptable risk for those of us who invest our own money alongside our client." The reader cannot fail to compare this statement with one made by Buffett in his commentary to Graham's Intelligent Investor, where he notes that a manager cannot afford to take risks precisely because it's not his money that is at stake, but his client's.
If you can, try to get the 2nd edition reprinting instead.
Security Analysis is not for the amateur or newbie investor wanna be. That being said, I didn't understand approximately 63% of it but the parts I did understand seem to me to be investing wisdom at its finest. If you are a seasoned investor, you will want to read this book and refine your skills. I'll come back to this one.
Absolutely fantastic stuff especially by contributing authors like Warren Buffet, Seth Klarman, etc If you have spent some time in the investing arena and feel out of touch with concepts and thoughts, here we go...
The tome....
This is a timeless classic. The principles contained in this book have stood the test of time. If you are a serious investor, you have to read this. There cannot be any greater learning.
Great book for those who are interested in long-term investments.Certain understanding of financial reporting is required.
The bible of securities investing i.e. studying financial statements and investing in stocks. Written in the 1930s. Still unsurpassed.
certain issues may not be relevant to today's finance but there are lots of things you can learn reading the book. there is no book that goes as deep as this book teaching you about value investing except Intelligent Investor. If you are thinking about value investing or overall about investing, then you should read the book
About the edition: I read the most recent 6th edition which is essentially an abridged 2nd edition plus some industry gurus' comments on each part and the relevance to today's investment.
People also recommend replacing the first part of the 2nd edition with 3rd edition which is more detailed and comprehensive.
I think the 2nd edition flows better than the 3rd.
It started with evaluation of company for bond investment and followed by the idea that stock evaluation should be built on the bond evaluation since common stock represents a non-enforceable claim on the company’s cash flows and earnings, which is inherently less safe than bond and relies more on the accuracy of the earning estimation and works with a much leaner margin of safety.
Oftentimes referred to as the best of the many editions, I wanted to read this version because it was released 10 years after the start of the Great Depression.
The 'links' between investing after the 1920s offer some insights into a similar period as investing after the massive technology bubble of the 1990s.
Of course, we did not experience a global depression after the 1990s (due to Greenspan and the Greatest Global Boom of all time), but there are some common threads.
His students have amassed some of the greatest long-term returns in history (even during the secular bull market of the 1960s and 70s).
A great read for investors.
So, it’s important not to speculate.You need to keep watching what is CEO and management doing; are they focused on resolving the occurred issues, what are they planning to do, how the are planning to execute those plans, how long will it take them to do it.
If you see that CEO and management are only interested in in their personal well being, and how to use company to make them self wealthier at the cost of shareholders and employees, than you might want to skip investing in that company.Stock Market Cycles and RecessionReading through this book I got the feeling that the Graham and Dodd made the best money through the recession.
The bible of value investing, Security Analysis instructs readers on how to invest -- rather than speculate -- in fixed income and equity securities. The authors appropriately highlight the importance of identifying and investing in good businesses selling at attractive prices relative to their intrinsic valuation. Much of the text, however, gets caught up in lengthy examples that weigh down this tome. Overall, this book reads well although the Intelligent Investor -- also written by Graham and Dodd -- provide a more readable roadmap to the central tenets of value oriented investing.
Read the classic version but found that the thoughts and standards of the time are far outdated from today's. The classic was written at a time when ticker tapes were in place, not when hundreds of billions of institutional funds move in and out of a country or industry equity sector within a week or 2. The principles are still true today as they were when they were first written, but context is what limits me from rating it a full 5!
A clear, oh-so-thorough review of a field in which I have little to no knowledge or expertise. If you have the patience to make it through, it represents a worldview that I find very interesting--you can follow the paper trail to very what has happened, to understand a group of people's decision making in the present, and to make educated guesses as to what could happen in the future. Fascinating.
This book has more useful, practical and well reasoned information per page than anything else I've read about investing. It is however a heavy book, both figuratively and literally. It's doubtful whether you can appreciate all of it without already having some meaningful experience. Probably worth reading multiple times over ones investment career.
Czytałam znacznie dłużej, niż Regulamin tłoczni win Irvinga, i to pokazuje mój stosunek do tej książki. Trochę za dużo tu polityki USA z czasów wojny w Wietnamie, trochę za dużo tajemnic na siłę rozwiązywanych w ostatnim momencie i te dłużyzny mnie znudziły. Ale ostatecznie przeczytałam, bo język jednak Irving ma piękny i gładko prowadzi opowieść.
Очень странно написанная книга. Вроде бы для профессионалов, но все разжевано очень сильно. Очень много специфики рынка США 70ых и 80ых годов, книга совсем не обновлялась с того времени.Прочитал начало, некоторые полезные вещи узнал, дальше только пролистал.
While this may the most commonly cited first book on most value investors shelves I will say that after getting about half way through you'll get the gist. Margin of safety through a disciplined valuation framework is necessary to sustainable returns
Text book like covering a breadth of topics without much focus on any one thing. Good over view but not fun nor deep enough to fully engage
After he graduated Buffett went on to work for Graham’s fund.The first edition was written in 1934, at the depth of the depression, which inspired Graham to search for a more conservative, safer way to invest.
However, it’s over 70 years old, and personally I have always felt it rather dated and there are numerous other more modern value investing books that are easier to relate to.
It is not an ideal starting point for young investors–I have read several finance books before this one, and parts of it were still over my head–but it is essential reading for any serious investor.Graham and Dodd discuss the philosophy of value investing eloquently.
They provide detailed analysis of dozens of companies' finance statements to support their arguments about how investors should analyze securities.
It is an excellent reality check for anyone who thinks he knows a thing or two about investing.The examples given by Graham and Dodd are a bit dated (1930s), but most of the principles are still relevant today.
The examples tend to be from the 1930's. Just surviving this period in the securities business was a major accomplishment. Simple mean reversion didn't work very well -- anyone who tried it was already gone. Meanwhile the examples are excellent. Especially the selections on 1920's mortgage backed securities -- yea they had them.
Great knowledge from the Master Benjamin Graham himself but a very hard book to get through. I would read War and Peace twice again before attempting to battle through it again. But don't get me wrong he is the founder of value investing and Warren Buffet's Teacher!
I'm probably the only person I know that could enjoy this book, but nonetheless, I found it very entertaining, despite its length. Don't read this unless you are very interested in the capital markets, though. It would be very boring.
It is no doubt a classic, written so simply and touches on industry analysis which most books on investments miss out. Besides it deals with several aspects of getting to the roots of making a good stock selection.
In the forward to this edition of Security Analysis, Warren Buffett tells us that he has four books in his library that he treasures most.
There are extensive notes on the CD.Security Analysis is long, but it is not a dry, boring book.
It would also be great if all the articles referenced in the footnotes were included on the accompanying CD.The authors speak of the Efficient Market Theory and that, if it is correct, all information is already included in the price of the security.
Since the Market is a voting machine, there will always be the opportunity to find a security that is not trading at its true value.
This book showed the brilliance of Benjamin Graham, but you will need some knowledge in accounting before reading this. Must read for value investors wanna be.
Although this book is more than 700 pages, still, every pages provide techniques and guidance with great importance any investor needed."Start analyzing a stock with a null hypothesis and rejecting it" is what this book is all about.
Graham uses numerous examples and methods to guide the audience and investors to achieve this goal.
Every chapter, Graham teaches us how to uncover the hidden traps of financial statements, how businesses use different means to hide their true business performance.
"Systematic and hard work", Graham claimed, is the key in rejecting this null hypothesis.
"There are no dependable ways of making money easily and quickly either in Wall Street or anywhere else."...that doesn't mean it's impossible!
The first book to read to understand stock market and stock trends. The chart analysis is time-tested and is good for commodities and other futures.
This edition keeps the spirit of Graham and Dodd's seminar work. I felt however that the new chapters don't add as much value as expected.
A masterpiece on investing. Incomparable. Benjamin Graham is the God of investing. Any other comparison will not do justice to the master.
Essential library reference.Worth dusting off from time to time, to reinforce time tested stock market lessons.
An essential for anyone interested in a career in finance. Graham and Dodd give a thorough overview of all the basics.
