https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15779.Sideways_Stories_from_Wayside_School
That’s right, Sammy; the grimy, filthy, stinking, and baffling dead rat that tries infiltrating Mrs. Jewls class while posing as a student and wearing multiple raincoats that reek of decay and alley-trash.
Compared to the iconic students attending Wayside, the kids at Hogwarts don’t compare, Ramona and her ilk look flimsy and pathetic, and the Choose Your Own Adventure books seem predictable and without shock compared to the zany irreverence displayed in these Sideways Stories.
This is the only chapter book I've read to my class this year that has caused them to demand more chapters, beg for a quick chapter here and there throughout the day and I've even had to re-read several chapters to them. There is just something about absurdity mixed with keen observations of school days reality that gets kids every time.

مجموعة من القصص الهزلية تدور حول طلاب أحد الفصول في مدرسة غريبة، يغلب على القصص الطابع الكوميدي الساخر و الفانتازيا الشديدة، أعجبتني بعض القصص لكن معظم القصص كانت بلا هدف واضح و لم أخرج منها بأي جديد
There is no 19th story.
Seriously, there’s a point where you just want to throw up your hands and scream, “oh my god Norton Juster, not everything in this world has to MEAN SOMETHING!!!”Enter Sideways Stories From Wayside School.
Wayside School was accidentally built thirty stories high.
It’s a place that made both of my daughters (and myself) completely engaged in story time.
It’s a place that almost never has to mean anything at all, but that occasionally does in surprisingly brilliant ways.This is the one and only book that my daughter has begged and pleaded to take to bed with her so she could keep reading it.
Dead rats in raincoats passing as ornery new students!One particularly bizarre, hilarious passage:"In Mrs. Jewls' class there were three children named Eric: Eric Fry, Eric Bacon, and Eric Ovens.
Eric Fry sat at this end of the room.
Eric Bacon sat in the middle of the room.
And Eric Ovens sat at that end of the room.
There was a joke around Wayside that if all three Erics were even in the same end of the room at the same time, the whole school would tip over.Eric Bacon hated jokes like that.
He was a pupil in Mrs. Jewl's class."
My 7 & 10 year old daughters laughed heartily throughout much of this read, but I think I missed the window. The humor didn't quite make it to my thirtieth story.No offense to Louis Sachar, but I just kept thinking. . . when is it going to turn into a Roald Dahl novel? It never did.
These wacky absurd stories which may seem irreverent and sometimes mean-spirited to adults really seem to resonate with children.
The humor makes sense to the kids and they enjoyed the absolute absurdity and upside-down-ness of this school and it’s rules.Wayside school was accidentally built 30 stories high and is leaning.
One student can only read upside down and is told he must learn to stand on his head.
Another student arranges to sell her “useless” toes to the yard teacher, however, when she is not getting the full price she originally bargained for, the deal is off.
Sachar uses a lot of puns, wordplay, and zany situations and that’s probably why as an adult my most favorite type of humor is irony with a little bit of absurdity.
But her eyes were so beautiful that the glasses only made her prettier.
I wish I knew kids like these, even Kathy who tastes a little bit like old bologna or Sammy who is actually a dead rat.Before you read any of the other Wayside School books, it's essential you read this collection because you are introduced to each and every kid in class and you also learn how Mrs. Jewels becomes their beloved teacher.
This was my reaction when I realized that I have not forgotten to pack this book for my Mumbai trip.
And this was my expression throughout the period when I was reading the book.I had so many expectations from it and maybe that led to the epic fall.
I so wanted to like it.
I wanted another Wimpy Kid in my kitty on which I can fall back on whenever I need.
But this is no Wimpy Kid, oh hell, it sucks as intensely as the Fudge kid in Fudge-a-mania.Here are some drudgery tales served on a please-like-me-i-am-so-cute plot and it sucks right from the word GO!.
This is a script for a play, not a book. It's a super cute fantasy story happening in a school where very strange things happen. For kids ages 8-11. Enjoy!
My fourth-grade homeroom teacher read this to our class, only she substituted names of the students and teachers in the book with the names of the students in our class (I was Leslie -- how I remember that, I have no idea) and the other teachers in our grade. Hilarity ensued, I assure you. A lot of my elementary school teachers liked reading to their homeroom classes during downtime, and I always loved it. This book stands out as one of my all-time favourite read-to-me-books, probably because of my teacher's spin on it.
This isn't a review of Louis Sachar's Sideways Stories from Wayside School.What this is the mysterious set of events that surrounded a particular copy of this book that I found in a little neighbourhood library in Baltimore.
I looked through each copy the entire library had in every branch throughout the city.
Sometimes, when a book's discarded because it's too old or too shelfworn to be circulated, it's sold off by the library, they said.
Sometimes, and this does happen, they forget that it's a book that was sold to them, and return it to the library!
Februay 17, Chapter 5I think Todd is a smart boy, because he save his classmates from the 2 robbersFebruay 24, Chapter 6I really enjoyed reading this chapter because, Bebe and Calvin had a great team workMarch 3, Chapter 7I think this chapter was very funny because, Calvin was ask to delivered a note to Mrs. Zarves on the 19th floor, but there was no 19th floor at Wayside SchoolMarch 10, Chaper 8I think Myron is very kind because he save his classmate dog that got hit by a carMarch 24, Chapter 9 Maurecia is a girl who eats icecream all the time, even during class time.
I like her because she can eat icecream all the time, and not scared to get fat.March 31, Chapter 10Dana has too many mosquito bites.
Mrs. Jewls help Dana by turning her mosquito bites into numbersApril 21, Chapter 11Jason is a boy who likes to chew gums.
Louis Sachar was unwittingly my primer for my love of absurdist and magical realism literature.
In my 5th grade English class, we read this book and I remember there was nothing we were more collectively excited about except maybe that mock presidential campaign where Michael Dukakis won by a landslide in the halls of George Washington Carver- Anson Jones Elementary, if nowhere else in the country.
The finished project was sent to Mr. Louis Sachar.
I vaguely remember he sent a letter saying how he enjoyed the book.
Upon the recommendation of an enthusiastic 3rd grader in my grandson’s class, I checked out his most favorite book from this year – “Sideways Stories From Wayside School”.
Two other kids concurred so that was enough for me to finally read what was also a favorite of several students I had as an elementary librarian.
It’s a different kind of humor that is just wacky, irreverent (not in a religious way), and sometimes-plain mean.
He will be thrilled that I cared enough to share his favorite book.)I do like the clever way the book is written, with each chapter starring a different class member.
Sideways stories was one of my favorite books growing up as a kid and I think it set me up to enjoy Catch-22 as well.
Some of these chapters are just plain funny and witty while others have a lot of depth to them.For example, the chapter on Joe is ripe with commentary about the education system.
His teacher asks him to count to 10.
But the story behind the story is about how the education often cares more about students learning the right way than what the students actually learn.Another example is the Three Erics.
children's books are fantastic bedtime readings - they are usually short, relatively simple, and - in the case of the whole wayside collection - ridiculously entertaining and clever.
i fear the day this becomes a film (unless my college roommate writes and directs it) because all of the kids are such unique and well developed characters, it has to be incredibly accurate (according to me anyway.)read this book.
most of you won't be disappointed (although, i did have a few friends who didn't like it very much...and i am no longer in contact with those nutjobs.) am i kidding?
This is absolutely the most perfect book I have ever read for this age group. Brilliant, hysterical, and seemingly simplistic, the book is anything but. I was shocked re-reading it as an adult how stunningly original all the small stories that make up this book are. If you haven't read it since you were young, I INSIST you pick it up again. The best in the bunch: icecream flavored like kids and the invisible note for the invisible teacher on the invisible floor.
Loved this as a kid! Passed it on to my sister and can't wait to pass it on to my children.
Sachar captures how arbitrary and pointless and incomprehensible school can be. But somehow, he makes it funny and touching instead of confusing and frustrating and awful like it is in real life.
I was only half-way interested in reading this book out loud to my son, who received it as an end of year gift from his second grade teacher.
I expected it to be kind of dumb because I knew it was meant to be "funny", and my idea of funny doesn't always overlap with a seven-year-old's.
But we tried it for lack of other reading material at hand, and it turned out I was captivated by the oddness of it.
There's no emotional depth to it at all, but there's not meant to be, so that didn't seem to matter.
This is the book that taught me that humor doesn't always have to follow the rules. The absurdism absolutely flavored all my daydreams from then on. All in all, it's actually a painfully short book and it's so weird that it makes one's brian stumble a bit at places. I guess that's what's great about it.
MY CHILDHOOOOOD
I love this book. It's one of my favorites. It's absolutely hilarious. You totally have to read it.
I'm rereading this for the first time since elementary school, and I gotta say, I'm really blown away by the sheer absurdity of it. It reminds me of James Marshall's George and Martha stories: absurd, but lovely in that they never apologize for being absurd or wink at you from beneath the absurdity. It's just absurd all the way down, sincerely and deeply absurd. I imagine after you graduate from George and Martha, you move on to Wayside, and from there you're ready for Beckett and Camus.
...Actually, Gwen, lets go out to the hall real quick.Dad: (Out in the hall, whispering): What was your favorite part, Gwen?G: My favorite part was when the (view spoiler)[ghost of Mrs. Gorf came back.
(hide spoiler)]Dad: Poppy, what was your favorite part?P: Uhhhhmmmm...
...She's three.E: Well, MY favorite part was when LOUIS told the story about (view spoiler)[ us to the kids at Wayside.
(hide spoiler)] I also liked the part about Maurecia - and the (view spoiler)[the different flavored ice cream.
Actually, two favorite parts.D: What are they?E: The first one is where Jenny (view spoiler)[ goes to school on a Saturday.
My kids and I just finished reading this book aloud one story a night. The humorous stories and ridiculous situations entertained all three kids (aged 4 through 8) and I found myself laughing aloud with them ad the adventures of the kids on the 30th story. Characters Each story focuses primarily on a different character so trying to lump all of the characters together into a single review category is difficult. The two character persistent throughout the book, Mrs. Jewls and Louis, are interesti
My kids and I just finished reading this book aloud one story a night.
Each of the characters find themselves in unique situations and react with matter-of-fact that are very true depictions of the mindset of a child.The simplicity and innocence of the characters' thinking serves as a great commentary not only on the humorous and sometimes foolish predicaments that they find themselves in, but also on the fact that sometimes those innocent and simple ideals are just as effective (or even more effective) than the "logical" views of the adult world.
If anything, the pacing may have been too quick at times since the kids were often bummed that a story was over too quickly.The setting of Wayside school was a quirky and unique exploration of a school.
I never read the sequels, and am not going to read them now due to having so much other stuff to read, but I'm sure she'll like them.Right off the bat in chapter one we have an evil bitch of a teacher named Mrs. Gorf who actually reminds me of my third grade teacher Mrs. Ball.
Alas for Mrs. Gorf.One thing I really liked about this book was that all the chapters are titled with the name of the person it's about.
E.g. chapter one is "Mrs. Gorf." Wayside school was built without a 19th story.
