https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/166101.River_Cross_My_Heart
The first thing to know about this book is that it basically has no plot -- it's more a series of loosely connected vignettes that, when taken as whole, combine to give the reader an impression of African-American life in the 1920s in a particular neighborhood in Washington, D.C. So, while the book does open with a beautifully rendered chapter in which the 12-year-old protagonist's sister drowns in the Potomac river, that tragedy doesn't lead to the kind of linear story with clear resolution many readers might expect.In that respect, the book is a bit of a failure -- but to my mind, it more than makes up for it by presenting a compelling roster of leading and supporting characters who bring alive the social history of pre-Depression black Washington.
I almost gave River, Cross My Heart one star, but decided that since I actually bothered to finish it, it deserved more than that.The book is about the impact of a little girl's drowning on her family, notably her big sister.
It's a bit like a coming of age story, we follow the big sister through her preteen years and see how the family deals with the loss of their youngest daughter as well as the surviving daughter's changing ways.
I feel like if they all were connected to the family in some important way, these descriptions would make sense.
although the setting was intriguing and I learned some things about the history and culture of the time, the writing was so mediocre, I didn't even finish this one...
i read a few reviews were people were saying the story has no plot, and i guess thats true. it was like i had a glimpse into someones (mostly Johnnie Mae) life. it was a trip and i enjoyed the journey. i find my self wanting to know how johnnie mae turned out as a full adult, did she go to schoool, are her and Pearl still friends. How did her brother turn out? it was a good read i enjoyed it a lot.
This is an incredible book. Beautiful story-telling and deftly written. If you liked "The Help" or "The Secret Life of Bees" you will probably like this.
It feels as though the whole story isn't coherent, I mean after a while it becomes fairly obvious that it is a story about the community and it doesn't actually have a plot of some sort but still, it still couldn't been great if it had focused on the characters more.It didn't need to have a plot.
I WANTED MORE OF THEM and ultimately, the book wasn't satisfying.And her writing isn't even bad, I saw the sheer potential in the first chapter.
If the whole book couldn't have been as atmospheric and effective as that first chapter, it could have been an 8/10 book, but the writing wasn't used to its fullest.
I don't know if it is because the reader doesn't know the character that passes away, but because there were so few details I couldn't sympathize with any of the characters, but rather felt that I was reading the news.
Breena Clarke writes beautifully about 1920's Georgetown, nearly to an extent that you feel like you're there in the Bynum's kitchen as the smells of Thanksgiving dinner take over the house.
The protagonist, Johnnie Mae, lives a troubled life from the point of her sister's death, and many of the scenes with the pool, river, and her friend Pearl left me puzzled.
I feel like this book left a lot of things unresolved and walk away somewhat scratching my head.
This was a good book. The lives of the characters were illuminating but at times the characters seemed only partially formed. That didn't detract from the telling of the story, just left me wanting more.
This is really a great book. I actually picked it up while strolling through the flea market one Saturday morning. I enjoyed it so much, I plan on reading it again.
Hard to stay with at firsrt. Then it was a page turner. Ending, I didn't get.
Apparently, I liked this book more than the average reader. Beautiful writing in spots, confusing in others... but that didn't make me dislike the book. This is a memorable community. I loved watching the women interact kind of above Johnnie Mae's head.
I really enjoyed this historical fiction novel about the segregated Washington DC neighborhood of Georgetown circa 1925. I particularly liked the spunky 12/13 year old Johnnie Mae who loved to swim but was not allowed to swim in the public pool because of the color of her skin.
On the one hand, it's a beautifully written glimpse into 1920s Georgetown's black community, and the interwoven lives of the various characters.
On the other hand, it's a story about a child tragically lost to the Potomac river, and the impact this has upon her parents and older sister, twelve-year-old Johnnie Mae.The overall effect is that it shifts around between styles, neither one thing nor the other.
Did Johnnie Mae know that Willie wasn't her real father?
Did Willie have some resentment that the child that survived wasn't his?
The story gives special focus into the grief of mama, Alice, and older sister, Johnnie Mae, as they deal with the death of their daughter/little sister.
The author includes throughout the book some wisdom worth pondering on, such as at the beginning of the novel, when Alice tells Johnnie Mae,"Just go on about your business and hoe the row that God has given you.
If looking after your sister is your obligation in life, then be thankful you have a sister."So glad to have found this book at the library.
River, Cross My Heart is a quiet, thoughtful story of facing tragedy and its aftermath.
Although set in a black community in the early 1900's, Clarke focuses much less on ideas of prejudice and its repercussions on the black community than may be expected.
Instead, this is a story about families, about mothers and daughters, about life, death, rebirth, and why it is all worth celebrating.
The patchwork intricacies of storytelling that Clarke uses meander back and forth throughout the cast of friends and relatives, emphasizing the significance of seemingly small happenings.
It is an interesting story but the author's style sometimes left me confused and uncertain.
The protagonist, Johnnie Mae, is an appealing little girl, full of moxie and independence.
In a fairy tale she would come out on top, but this is a slice of life in segregated early 20th century Washington, DC., so her fate is not guaranteed to be rosy.
I cared very much about Johnnie Mae, but felt distant from the rest of the people in her life.
I think there could have been more depths explored and that left me feeling somewhat unsatisfied when I reached the last page.
I liked the book but did not love it.
Perhaps I've read too many southern/racism -oriented books lately and need to take a break, though the topic is always relevant,interesting, and (usually)sad.
The author, Breena Clarke, has a lovely, informed voice and is quite eloquent in how she writes, capturing the poor Negro-voice and experience perfectly.
The plot, though it held great promise as a poignant story about the accidental death of a child and the impact on those around her, somehow never seemed to get off the ground.
Wonderful. I couldn't put it down. I read several reviews that said the first chapter was the best, but I loved them all. Each one held me. I could almost feel the mothers love for her daughter. Very moving book that I'm glad I read.
I want to say that I found this book through the recommendations on Goodreads based on books I have read before.
If it wasn't for that, I probably wouldn't have read this book.
That said, I have to say that it was a pretty easy read.My biggest issue with this story was the constant flipping of point of view mid-stream.
That made it difficult to follow at some points.
I did find myself drawn to read the book, whether it's due to the book or the fact I've set a reading challenge for myself this year, I'm not sure.
Just some random thoughts...The second half of River, Cross My Heart was more enjoyable than the first 100 pages, which tell of the death of a child. It's important, but less could have been written. Moreover, the main character's coming of age story is unfortunately rushed. I loved Clarke's character descriptions and her illustrations of people's ways. I just wish there was more. For a book with such a sad beginning, it ended on a hopeful note, which was nice. I'd give it more of a 3.5 stars.
This was a tough story for me to read, because I know someone who's child drowned. Maybe that was also why I connected with how this family dealt with their loss--very real emotions that rang true to me.
The book opens with the drowning of six-year old Clara Bynum when she falls in the Potomac River as her sister, Johnnie Mae swims nearby. It takes place in the 1920s in Washington, D.C., and follows the Bynum family (who is black) through their journey of healing after such a tragic loss.
I could not put this book down for very long….her writing really made me feel like I was right there with the characters~
Once again, another Oprah book club book I wish I never read. I really felt this book went no where. I wish I gave up on reading it after a few pages like I was inclined to do.
Interesting coming of age story with incite into black culture of the 1920s. Though the plot was rather simplistic, it did hold my attention.
I very much enjoyed the author's writing style and her portrayal of Georgetown during the 1920s.
I enjoyed the descriptions of the town in another era, when black families lived there, seeking a better life than country life and forming communities filled with their own culture and beliefs.
Each chapter reveals more about the community, those who lived there and the strength of the black culture that developed because of these people and who they were.
I felt that was the point of the story, to reveal these characters to the reader within their historical context and setting, not to write a complex story with an intricate plot.
Johnnie Mae Bynum was the older sister to Clara, and therefore was charged with her care when her mother was not available.
A natural swimmer herself, Johnnie Mae can't keep away from water, and therefore enters the Potomac River one hot day.
But the story her mother hears, from those who were there, is that Johnnie Mae dove repeatedly, trying to save her little sister.
The two become close, but Johnnie Mae does not tell Pearl how she sees her.
Just through living and watching and listening, Johnnie Mae confronts her fears about the death of Clara.
Somewhat disjointed, I didn't feel like I got to know any of the characters intimately, except perhaps Johnnie May. There was one beautiful paragraph that deeply struck me.
"She had thought that as long as she could see her mother--feel her mother--scent her mother--she was within the sphere of her mother's influence.
She could take herself away from her mother and her mother would be puzzled and would not know where she was.
It takes a child who is well loved a long time to figure out that she can leave her mother's house just by walking away."
Maybe it's just the nature of these retrospective book reviews but, again, it's the circumstances of reading that come back to me rather than the actual book itself.
Other than a very dramatic and evocative pivotal drowining scene (no spoiler, really, I believe it's on the blurb) and the gut-wrenching portrayal of disgusting racism, the book is fairly forgettable.
What is memorable is my date with myself, where I was reading this, starting with a lovely solo meal in Sarti, followed by a fabulous concert of Paul Towndrow's folk-jazz collaboration 'Deepening the River', after which I ended up in the pub with a couple of Twitter friends and meeting some of my folk music heroes.
A book basically about a young coloured girl growing up in 1920s America. Tragedy strikes the Bynum family when six-year-old Clara drowns while in the care of her older sister Johnnie Mae...& Johnnie Mae has to come to terms with the loss of her sister. It's one of those stories that keeps you entertained but somehow seems to be about nothing in particular - the only thing I recall in any detail about it is Johnnie Mae's obsession with the white childrens swimming pool.  I enjoyed it - but found the ending a little strange!
