https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/645754.Black_Coffee
Mild Disclaimer: I read the novelization instead, and have no intention of reading the drama, but it honestly bugs me too much when the series listing for the Poirot novels has this version rather than the one I read (of the same book, essentially) so that it looks as though I skipped this one. So there. Oh, what fun. Maybe it's because I went into this fully expecting a stinker—I mean, it's a novelization of a drama, come on!—but I thought this was just a delightful little Poirot story. I like
Maybe it's because I went into this fully expecting a stinker—I mean, it's a novelization of a drama, come on!—but I thought this was just a delightful little Poirot story.
I liked it as much as, if not more than, the previous installment of the collection, The Mystery of the Blue Train.Clearly, I am waiting with bated breath to make it up to Murder on the Orient Express, and I don't expect anything nearly as good as The Murder of Roger Ackroyd (which is sensational, by the way), but these last two have been fun and easy reads.
The format of Black Coffee by Agatha Christie available at my library is a play featuring the brilliant deductive abilities of Belgian detective Hercule Poirot. Poirot and his friend Hastings are summoned to the home of Sir Claud Amory to determine the identity of the thief responsible for stealing the formula for a new explosive from the scientist's safe. Upon arrival Poirot discovers that not only is the formula still missing but Sir Claud has been poisoned. While a play is not my preferred reading style, I found the mystery to be quite entertaining. 4 stars
I accidentally got the stage version of the story from the library--and it didn't occur to me that this wasn't normal or that there would be a true novel version. So now I feel that I've cheated myself of the proper experience and took a shortcut through the story. (This stage version dumbed down the story, I believe.)Needless to say, I will find my way to the true novel version.
Well, reading a story in script form is not my favorite.
Typical Poirot story.
A couple of things I don’t understand: this is listed as #7 in the series, which would mean it fits here chronologically.
And there was an event that was important in Poirot’s solving of the crime; it was the same event that occurred in The Mysterious Affair at Styles, Book #1.
It makes me think this wasn’t supposed to be included in the novel series.
I bought this book on eBay because I am reading them in order until at least #10, Murder on the Orient Express, and my library didn’t have it.

I really loved this book and I think you can guess by the title what the murder weapon of choice was... Black Coffee. Again this follows Hercule Poirot as he was summoned to take a very secret package from Sir Claud as he fears his family is trying to steal the formula. I don't want to go into the story more as to not spoil it but it is a classic Agatha Christie. I highly recommend this book as well as the series.
In this neat little Hercule Poirot mystery, Poirot is asked to protect a new formula for a secret weapon but when he arrives at the house of the scientist who invented the new formula, he finds that the scientist has been poisoned. An interesting cast of characters provide a good mysterious group that leads to many twists and turns.
Oh young lovers. How I hate young lovers in these stories. They're so tiresome, and they're never proper suspects. This format just isn't as much fun to read, but still a classic excellent mind twisting Christie
This is a play, and it was fun to read for that reason. It brought back many memories for me, as I worked on a production of another play by Agatha Christie, Witness for the Prosecution, when I was in high school. However, compared to one of her novels, it's not as satisfying.
I don't love reading plays with lots of stage directions, but I feel that I *have* tonread the stage directions so that I don't miss something important.
3.5
Приятно четиво за плажа, но нищо повече
Some entertaining comedy and a femme fatale keep this rather humdrum affair afloat.
Book #1 for 2017GenreLand: FictionBetter World Books Tasks: - A book with a color in the title- A book under 200 pages- A book by a female writer- A book that's been adapted into a movieRead Harder Task: A book published between 1900 and 1950PopSugar Tasks (max 3):- A book by an author who uses a pseudonym- A book written by someone you admire- A book with an eccentric characterBook Bingo Square: A Book from the LibraryLegendary Book Club of Habitica's Ultimate Reading Challenge Task: A script or screenplayFollow the Clues Challenge: Chain 1, Clue 1This, Christie's first foray into writing for the stage, usually appears on bibliographies with a 1934 date.
Would be a fun play to put on, especially for an audience unfamiliar with Christie. Several elements from this play made their way into episodes of the David Suchet POIROT series, so if you've seen that, you'll guess whodunit pretty quick. (Or maybe Christie recycled those bits. I dunno.) Anyhow, it was cute. Contains Hastings and Japp, which is always a bonus with me.
