https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/163465.The_Great_Gilly_Hopkins
What I really like: Paterson never takes the easy way out and it doesn't have a traditional 'happy ending.' There are things to be happy about in the end - Gilly has grown up and she learns to accept some emotional attachments.
She learns to accept Mr. Randolph, but we never learn if she has had some sort of "conversion." Which is probably a good thing - life's a whole lot more complicated than a now-I-see-the-light story.As I said, there isn't a traditional happy ending, but readers get the feeling that Gilly will be ok.
Gilly is in the foster care system and she feels you have to be tough to survive life; you can't need anyone's help.
She is smart and capable and she knows it and she also knows how to use that as a weapon.This book was powerful and it moved me.
I was brought into a way of life not my own.
I reckon I thought you had that all figured out." "What?" "That all that stuff about happy endings is lies.
Now that might or might not be happy, but either way you ain't ready to die, are you?"That is powerful writing right there.
Boys may not find the female protagonist appealing (though she's a pretty tough & streetwise character for the time period it was written in.) We did it books on tape.
And while the main character clearly starts out as a bigot, she's changed in a real and genuine way by the end of the story.It has some wonderful truths of life--that its not always a piece of cake to get by--but you make the best of what you can.
Gilly, the main character is entering her third foster home when we meet her.
The message in the book is just so horrible to be given to children that I don't think any child should read this!
Thank God because I wouldn't want to read any parts of this book again!I can appreciate wanting to write a story about foster care children and how it's rough on them but that doesn't mean you have to make it seem completely hopeless for them!
How horrible it must be for children to read this and get that sense out of life!I would have to say that I did enjoy some of the other characters.
The feeling in The Great Gilly Hopkins is just so stark and so easy to identify with, and the sharp mind of Gilly herself brings her situations into clear and germane focus.
The Great Gilly Hopkins made me laugh out loud and brought me to tears; it echoed within my heart and soul and grounded me with its uncompromising reality.
1979 was a loaded Newbery year, with Robin McKinley's "Beauty" and Ellen Raskin's "The Westing Game" in the mix, in addition to this book.
I loved "The Westing Game", and gave it five stars here on Goodreads, but my Newbery Medal for that year would have gone to The Great Gilly Hopkins.
Terrible. Excessive profanity, a misbehaving main character, religion bashing, and an ending that was way too pat.
Any kid who's a fan of books like Madeline, The Wonderful Adventures of Suzuki Beane or The Water and the Wild will definitely love this short novel; Gilly is a rebellious, defiant, witty and creative character and her time as a foster child and her refusal to be loved by any foster parent is well-written and a coming of age story that's at times sad and at other times deeply intelligent for a kid's book.
The author draws you into her world, weaves words together so simply, so beautifully, that you can’t help but swallow them whole—and then, just when the story is beginning, the words run out.
And, afterwards, you’re never really happy.My favourite of her books has to be The Bridge to Terebithia, but The Great Gilly Hopkins follows pretty close.
Words are splashed around without laborious detail or never-ending explanations.
That’s the sign of a good book.
That’s the sign of a good author.I love the characters.
Gilly’s a bit racist at the beginning—towards her “coloured” teacher, Miss Harris, and the neighbour, Mr. Randolph.
It’s one of my favourite books.
I liked this book for 3 reasons.
2. It reminds you of the worth of a soul, rich or poor, black or white skinny or large almost everyone has a significant contribution to make to people.
Just when you thought that your role as a mother was limited or reduced to cooking and cleaning, this book reminds you just how much kids need mothers and how much they love and value them.
My favorite quote from this book is: "Nothing to make you happy like doing good on a tough job, now is there?"
Paterson takes this ordinary foster child whose only claim to county-wide fame is being smart and hard to manage, and pits her against a slow, loving, fat woman; a sweet, blind, shriveled old man, a defenseless special needs boy, and a shrewd teacher who, Gilly notes, happens to be black.
Gilly is a person who will bring you down.A masterful touch was a side character named Agnes Stokes.
I’m not even sure she is thinking these words, but they are an effective expression of her feelings that let us feel the state of her soul.The great Gilly loses to these unlikely characters.
She uses a lot of bad language (no f-bombs; this is a kid's book), but by the end of the book, the ugliness isn't Gilly's vocabulary or the blind old man next door or her hugely obese, sloppy, and loving foster mother.
What is truly ugly is Courtney, over whose beautiful picture Gilly has been yearning all her life.
Also I think there's a lesson to be learned about not yearning for the unattainable but to look around you and appreciate what you have.
When she learns to accept the love that is given and give it back, I cried!
Man, it has been a long time since I have read this. It was a great listen today at work. Listening today as an adult, my favorite line in this heart wrenching book is when Gilly finally sees the mother who abandoned her and thinks to herself that her dreams of her mother are shattered and her mother is nothing more than a "a flower child gone to seed." God Bless Gilly and all the children in the world out there who are living in her same circumstances.
This was one of the few books I owned as a child (borrowed most of my books from libraries), so that was probably the reason why I read it over and over, even though I never fell in love with it completely.
I would still recommend this read, because it gives insight into the world of a foster child who was abandoned, and who put up a pretense of toughness to escape hurt, but who in the end just needed a home and someone who would always love her.
Gilly is a hard headed little brat focused on making things difficult for people around her but she soon realizes that life is actually hard, and what you want, may not be what you really need.This is a children's book but it does not adhere to the traditional - 'And they all lived happily ever after..' - and that's one of the main reasons I like it. The characterization in too is done well and you can actually feel Gilly's anger at her circumstances through the writing. Recommended reading for middle grade children
This book was so completely depressing. At first I couldn't stand this little girl. She was so mean and horrible. Then I realized hurting people hurt people so I felt sorry for her and hoped someone would love her. It showed a glimmer of hope that she would be Happy then it all went downhill. I read this for a Y A book club. I would Never recommend this book to any child. It's just a waste of time.
I am really curious as to how this will be presented on the screen. Really looking forward to finding out!Review to come!
Did this one make you cry, too? Ugh.
In one of her angry episodes, she writes a letter to her mother, exaggerating the living conditions she is currently in, and asks her mom to come and get her and take her home.
Gilly finally embraces her role in Trotter’s home and starts to appreciate everything Trotter had offered her, especially unconditional love.
Trotter understands what it means to be a foster parent and tells Gilly that she has to go live with her grandmother.
Children in foster care have the same needs as children living at home with their parents.
Dice sempre che non le importa, che le piace cambiare, ma il suo disagio è palese a tutti.Una bambina come Gilly ha semplicemente bisogno di attenzioni, di qualcuno che la ami, di smetterla di fantasticare che sua madre - quella vera, secondo lei - un giorno arrivi a salvarla dalle famiglie adottive.I personaggi che incontrerà nel corso della storia sono quei tipici personaggi che possiamo solo amare.
Il risultato che si ottiene dalla combinazione di questi fattori è una perfetta storia per ragazzi da leggere nel corso di una giornata per ricordarsi che al mondo quello che conta non è il facile lieto fine, ma la lotta che si compie per arrivarci.
Touching story about a foster child and how important that humans not be just disposable.
I think that gilly has good reactions to things but the storyline isn't very well because to many good things happen to her and only in the beginning is the trouble and the best.she also puts a lot of things to the negative side.gilly also has to much diolouge and thinking but less description.it also doesn't have much detail to know what time period. I think it's around late 1800 because gilly didn't say it was normal to invite th black over for a dinner.
Saya sangat terkesan dengan versi film Terabithia, tapi karena belum baca novelnya, The Great Gilly Hopkins ini menjadi kali pertama saya membaca karya Mbak Katherine.
Agak mengingatkan saya pada beberapa judul novel Judy Blume yang juga pernah diterbitkan di Indonesia: gambaran psikologi dan kehidupan keseharian anak pra-remaja denga nuansa kocak-getir-hangat yang pas.
Cerita ini tentang pengalaman Galadriel 'Gilly' Hopkins saat menjadi anak angkat seorang wanita hangat bernama Trotter + kakak angkat dari anak yang sangat pemalu, William Ernest.
Buku yang sangat pas dibaca anak pra-remaja, maupun orang dewasa yang sedang berusaha mengingat kembali dan memahami psikologi anak seumuran itu.
I'm always looking for classic books for the children's book club I facilitate at our local library, as I often include a couple of them on our reading list.I first tried reading a paperback edition of this book back in 2014, but I never got around to finishing it.
It's a fast read and certainly helps to convey the myriad emotions experienced by foster children and some of the realities of life in the foster system.interesting quotes (page numbers from the paperback edition with ISBN13 9780064402019):"It seemed to Gilly that everything in this world that you can’t stand to wait one extra minute for is always late." (p.
You know when a book is super good but you don't LOVE it?
That's this book.
Maybe I just couldn't fully click with it or something?All of the characters in this book are wonderfully amazing.
How cool is that, right?) She starts out as a sassy, sharp girl who wants to get back to her mother, but ends as a sassy, hopeful girl who knows that that door is closed to her, but she can learn to find another life with people who care about her.Lovely, hopeful ending.
Life isn't easy, but maybe that's why it's worth it.
Gilly, a very intelligent child, who has been in the system for years going from foster home to foster home, making her angry and a brat. She is determined to be with her mother who she believes loves her and wants her. She finds herself with Maime Trotter, the fat widow. William Earnest, 7, a mentally challenged boy along with the blind, black elderly man next door. The reader watches her grow both emotionally and socially. However, the story ends unsatisfactorily for me but I suppose realistically.
I am a fifth grade teacher, and read this book while teaching from it to one of my reading groups. I have used it every year since, and it gets better with each reading. Katherine Paterson's storytelling and descriptive qualities are top-notch. Her characters become so real to the readers, and the storyline unfolds to a greater depth on each page. This book will not disappoint, whether read by a child or an adult!
Should say written by The Great Katherine Paterson.I have to wonder would Gilly get published today? I love her foul mouth. When she says, "Dammit, Trotter. Don't try to make a stinking Christian out of me." I about died! That has to be one children literature's all time best lines.
This is a sweet story about a brilliant young lady but it broke my heart and I am desperately trolling around now trying to find a book to read that will make me feel better.
Two words, soul. Crushing.
We listened to it on a road trip along with my mother who thought it was horrible because Gilly isn't the perfect little girl and has a mild potty mouth.
I think it helped my daughter to understand one of her classmates a little more and why it worked to be kind to him when he was mean to her.
I think that it's important for children to learn to understand others through books like this.
Life isn't just roses and not all people start out smelling like one.
By the end, though she still puts on the tough girl attitude, we see the cracks in her armor, the broken child inside that just wants to be loved.
There are so many Gillys in our broken world, that need that kind of love.
My heart was broken during this book.
Katherine Paterson has a way of making me cry no matter what book I read of hers.
I'm so thankful that my boys don't know this kind of despair and heartache, the kind that forces a child to be so tough and hard, but to understand where it can come from in others, that there is a hard world outside, and that love can soften it.
Trotter is a huge, messy woman who lives in a huge, messy house with a small, possibly developmentally delayed foster son name William Earnest and a black neighbour.
Snobby, racist Gilly is disgusted by this turn of events.The book concerns Gilly's change of heart about her new foster family (and foster neighbour) — and how she manages to catastrophically screw it all up anyway.
I love that Paterson lets the catastrophic screw-up stand, and shows how Gilly recovers and uses what she learns at Trotter's house to figure out how to survive in her latest new life.
Did you ever wonder how it feels to live in a foster house?The Great Gilly Hopkins is a book about a foster girl that is desperately looking for her mom.
Purposely she has a bad attitude about the foster homes because she wants to be reunited with her mother.
Gilly plans to escape by stealing some money from Mr.Randolph and from Trotter’s house and taking the train to California where she believes her mother is.
I would desperately want to read a sequel book because the writer makes it enjoyable to put yourself in Gilly’s shoes.
2,5/5and the best mom award goes to...
2.5I only finished it because it's short. I didn't really like the characters, plot, or writing. I'll probably still try the movie though.
I can see why this book won a Newberry Award.
The writing really is brilliant and the evolution of the characters into an ending I didn't expect was wonderful.
I will say that I was considering this for a 5th grade read but there are a lot of elements in the book that could be questionable.
That's just one of several elements that I questioned.
As an adult I understand where that was coming from given her situation, but not sure how impressionable children might take that.
The emotional element of this book is so tender and beautiful in the end.
Worth reading for sure.
I thought I would hate the brash, loud-mouthed Gilly but I actually grew to like her and her politically incorrect views.
I mean, she's a kid and has had a really rough go of her young life so far and her anger and distrust is understandable.
She was real and she said things most people would have thought at least once, if in the same position as her.
The story really does come full circle with Gilly having to accept that some things are out of her control even while she is beginning to learn to control her reactions and her behavior.
I liked the book a lot but the ending is terrible.
She has been in several foster homes and all she wants is her mother "the beautiful Courtney" to come and get her like in a fairy tale.
Gilly has never been around a black person before so she has some terribly racist and stereotypical views.
Gilly soon realizes that family more defined by the people who care and love you no matter what not necessarily the people you are born to.
Too bad Gilly realizes this too late.
That's one of the reason's I'm not giving 4 stars.
You know that she creates trouble and appears tough because she is so hurt inside from wanting her biological mother, Courtney, to come get her from her new foster home.Gilly is NOT a lovable character (even knowing why she does what she does) because of how she treats others.
Reading this story, I thought, "Well, at least you know there will be a happy ending of her realizing the love from and to her foster family." It doesn't end that way!
If reading a story like this helps a child or adult heal, relate, open their eyes, etc., then yes, I will whole-heartedly recommend this book.
I finished reading Gilly to my husband.
I think he was both happy and totally heartbroken with the ending.
I am going to write a blog post soon about these "wild" adolescent girl novels that I love, and Gilly will be on the list.
I'm also thinking I'm going to avoid the film that's due out soon.
Massive differences in those ages, don't you think?Last night, I started reading this book aloud to my husband.
I'm happy to be reading it again.
Funny how some books are like that, and other I can't tell you anything about, though I've just finished it a month ago.
Let's just say that I couldn't stand the "protagonist".
Her. I mean seriously, how are readers supposed to sympathize and connect with her?
Also, I think a second star may have actually gotten tacked on there if it ended minus the last chapter.
I was about to close the book with a grin on my face before I realized that there was another chapter.
This book is about life and how terrible it is and that some people are just brats and can't be transformed.
No idea how this even made it onto the Newbery table, and how it has gotten so many positive reviews.
If you're looking for a happy ending, don't pick this one up.
Gilly is a hardened foster kid - foul mouthed, racist, manipulative, and a thief to boot.
But, her newest foster mother, Trotter, is on to her.
And despite how Gilly treats her, loves her.
She would love nothing more than to keep Gilly permanently.
But, like in the real life foster care system, just because they both want to stay together, this doesn't guarantee anything.It broke my heart, but it was still a beautiful book.
Now, I look forward to seeing the movie adaptation starring Kathy Bates and Sophie Nelisse.
It's beautiful.I think this book would be a great read-aloud, but it does have some cuss words and racial slurs (Gilly is a genuine racist at the beginning before she makes friends with the next-door neighbor Mr Randolph and her new school teacher Miss Harris, but she learns better).
There are a lot of great life lessons in this book, about being a friend, being trustworthy, loving others, and what it means to have a family.
She enjoyed reading it a lot, and I hardly had to push her to read at all, which was a pleasant surprise.The main character, Galadriel "Gilly" Hopkins is tough, angry, and brilliant.
My student and I had a tough time trying to put ourselves in Gilly's shoes, but Paterson did a wonderful job of helping us connect to her.
I loved how the ending of the book was not "happy" but was still satisfying.
We had a great time following Gilly's story, and both finished the book happy for Gilly, but still hoping that things would get better for her.
This book was published in 1978, so when I used it in my 7th grade class I found there were a few disconnects with the kids.
First of all, there is some sensitivity training when teaching this book....Gilly is a foster child who has been moved around a lot, so she has a lot of anger and mistrust...She also has some issues with being racist.
It isn't until the middle of the book that she realizes she loves her foster mother's neighbor and by the end of the book she calls him her uncle.It is hinted at that the reason her mother left her was because she was a flower child who went to San Francisco.
