https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1877493.Fire_Tongue
I tip my hat to the fine folks at Project Gutenberg: virtually every title I have or will be reading in the near future comes from them.Fire-Tongue is a non-Fu Manchu novel (first published, but second for the character) written by Sax Rohmer in the early 1920s.
So, Harley begins some old-fashioned gumshoeing to find out whom, what, and why.Written in the same time period as Dashiell Hammett wrote several of the Continental Op stories & books, I found some similarities to how the men go about their tasks.
"Fire-Tongue" has a promising title but alas is but second-rate Rohmer.
Here one finds the characteristic Rohmerian menace from the East, this time in the form of a secret society based in India and presided over by an effeminate financier from Iran.
Rohmer spends too much time stoking the fires of suspense, which merely smoulder in response.
When the unfolding of the novel finally begins in earnest, it takes up the second man-of-action's thread, then twists back and forth among central characters like an unwieldy snake before reaching an all-too-quick climax followed by an almost non-existent denouement.
I couldn't help but feeling that Rohmer himself had tired of the antics of "Fire-Tongue."
Fire-Tongue is definitely an interesting read, but the language and culture are obviously from a different era. That's not necessarily a bad thing, but it has quite a different flow from modern English, and the story is rampant with racism.This is a fairly predictable mystery story with enough fun and exotic detail to make it entertaining. The language is probably difficult for young readers to comprehend in spots, but it's a fun story for a leisure read.
Most of the Rohmer I've read has been Fu Manchu. This is similar, but just different enough. Cracking old-style adventure with all the expected ingredients: a bit of mystical stuff, Eastern conspiracies, murders, and a dogged detective. Right after finishing it I went back to Manybooks.net and grabbed more Rohmer.
Paul Harley on the trail of an evil oriental, to rescue an attractive young woman from his clutches.
Ludicrously OTT, but surprisingly readable - a model for today's conspiracy novelists to ponder seriously when creating lovable megalomaniacs who threaten our cornflakes.
If there’s one thing a detective hates, it’s when their client hems and haws about explaining basic details of why they need a detective, only to die just as they make up their minds with only a cryptic last utterance as a clue.But that’s the situation Paul Harley is in with his latest case.
He promises to make more explanations at dinner, but collapses just after drinking a bit of water, uttering only “Fire-Tongue…Nicol Brinn” before passing.Nicol Brinn is an American millionaire who happens to be in London just now, but what possible connection could he have to Sir Charles?
He meets the man's beautiful daughter and learns nothing form her except that she has been in disagreement with her father over the attentions of an Oriental merchant named Ormuz Khan, from Persia.Harley meets with Nicol Brinn and learns that the man has a mere passing acquaintance with the dead man, but he clearly has information about his death.
Harley begins a long and torturous investigation involving disguise and surveillance which leads to little until he finds a vital clue connected to India, which Harley, Sir Charles, and Brinn have all visited.
SR couldn't solve this, so he asked Harry Houdini - who solved the mystery!
Do you need a second opinion on this book? Visit and explore www.oceanpearlbooks.wordpress.com. OceanPearl Books endeavors to provide well-informed book reviews, business readings, parenting tips, and consulting services for our clients worldwide. And it's all for Free!OceanPearl Books - Book ReviewAn occult organized by the prominent men of society. Its members hold it as a religion and are powerless in front of its dictations. And, a detective who is on a mission to solve the murder mystery and destroy the occult.A powerful story which will keep you mesmerized.This book is available for FREE at http://manybooks.net/titles/rohmersae....
I didn't like this book. The language was flat. The characters were 2-dimensional stickers. And I am convinced that the author was secretly in love with Nicol Brinn and his "lack-lustre eyes". I didn't appreciate the racism against Indians either; particularly when Fire Tongue's "cruelty" was justified by his nationality, skin colour and race.I wouldn't recommend this to anyone.
Read as far as I could stand - too racist/sexist by today's standards.
read some time in 1996
