https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18912.The_Sublime_Object_of_Ideology
At this point, a lot of reviewers, brighter and better than I, might go into a lengthy analysis of his philosophy, with counter-examples and arguments from sundry sources and their own critique, but as my stated aim and highest ambition is radical insufficiency, I’m just going to note a few of the points that really stuck with me, and hope that it is clear that to get at any of this with any kind of a thing-approaching-understanding, you should just go to the book itself.The main concern of The Sublime Object… is the passing of the subject through modes of “reflection”- the goal being a kind of “subjective destitution”, where the subject no longer presupposes himself as subject, but by recognizing the non-existence of the big Other, annuls himself as subject, and comes to accept “misrecognition” (the gap between the Real and its symbolization) as not only fundamental to his subjective freedom, but constitutive of himself as a “positing” subject.
Zizek's most revolutionary message, I think, is also probably his simplest: the subject must take responsibility for his own subjectivity. This is a message nobody wants to hear. Especially not today, when the drink of choice is postmodern skepticism: "I am aware of what I am doing but I do it anyway." Zizek takes aim at the post-structuralist, the postmodernist, the post-whateverist, the empty Foucauldian fad, the politically correct, the practicing non-believer, the all-too-comfortable victim, etc., etc., and then he throws lots of vegetables at their big silly phallic performance. Duck!
I took long baths with it.
If I just drop this in the bath...
He's not one of those, "Let me be as clear as possible here" type chaps.
Thing is, I can't help feeling that his obscurantism is a stalling tactic...
Stalling for what?
But here's an undoubtedly uber-clever leftie (nothing wrong with that) who reads the most impenetrable shit he can find (everyone needs a hobby) and then uses his hero Herr Hegel to basically justify his political vision, which hasn't come to be, which leads us back to the stalling...
It'll all make sense until the smoke clears, maybe...
Zizek combines Marxist commodity and ideology theory with Lacanian psychoanalytics to suggest that identity, ideology, and the self all necessarily depend upon an inaccessible excess, a "kernel of the Real" that we cannot and indeed should not grasp in the symbolic order.
The point is consequently not one of understanding the truth that ideology hides, or of lifting the dream content to the latent meaning below, but of understanding how the inaccessible is in and constitutive of the forms of ideology and the self alike.
Our actual beliefs, our "real" thoughts below the surface, are beside the point.I think.
"I don't know shit lmao" - Socrates
I read this for one of those reasons: I knew this was a seminal work, and I like Žižek's writing.
For a number of years now, quite before I knew of Žižek, I have been approaching individuals with this notion: there is no such thing as choice.
But, I am totally okay with that.You see, they (my straw men) fight to hold on to this banal notion of "individuality" being made up of "choices"—I had coffee this morning because I decided to; not because of my environment, my internal make up, my bank account, my access to coffee, the development of coffee as a commodity, etc.
They must know that in the absence of choice, or "free will" for you old school philosophers, we still retain our individuality.
Bastante interesante, pero necesito adquirir más conocimientos sobre psicoanálisis.
This is definitely the place to start, provided you have at least a limited acquaintance with continental thought.That said, I can see a few flaws.His theory (that is to say, his presentation of Hegel via Lacan) offers an incredibly powerful model of how the interdependence of Society and the Subject is structured.
That's fine, and I think it's probably true: Desire is always structured to conceal the radical impossiblity of the social order.
Odd to come at this after having already read a fair amount of Zizek (Parallax View, Desert of the Real, Violence, Enjoy Your Symptom!, Plague of Fantasies, chunks of Puppet and the Dwarf): everything new is old again.
That's fine.Strikes me now that Zizek's method is primarily phenomenological: how does it (in his case, Das Ding rather than, say, a table) appear to consciousness, specifically, HUMAN consciousness (there's no sense in Zizek of von Uexküll's ever having existed: he remains a humanist or at least an anthropocentrist through and through).
Second problem: the Hegelian method, as a method of binaries, only inadequately describes actually existing networked processes of change.
Some interesting kernels contained here and there but buried beneath verbose padding. Some of the points made (the relation of Marxism to the "symptom" for example) are genuinely good (or, at least thoughtful), but whether or not they are worth trawling through the rest is a different question.
It's common knowledge that Zizek is frequently at his best while recounting jokes in order to illustrate a philosophical concept, and the dirtier the jokes the better.
Well a belief that Zizek is simply at his best when he is writing.
His speeches aren't bad, but when you read his prose, that's when you see the kind of thinking of which he is capable.
This book, while not without its problems—at points it is simply overwrought to the point of confusion—delivers powerful critiques of ideology again and again.
In any case, I've known for a while I needed to read this book.
Better as a jokebook than as a work of original philosophy
I'll be honest: about a third of this book was totally over my head.
If I could do it all over again, I would've read at least a little Lacan before giving this one a go, considering how often he's cited and how impenetrable I found most of his thought.
Prior to this, I'd only read Žižek's Violence, which is much more user-friendly.
There are so many insights in here that'll get your head whirring if you're interested in the basic structures and weaknesses of belief, language and the ideologies they create.
It really helped hone my own thought when it comes to understanding how and why people—myself included—will believe in self-defeating ideological systems.

The Title of this book should've been - "Abandon All Hope Ye Who Enter Here" Read the first ten pages then I realized that I had more important things to do. Having nails driven into my testicles would've been more fulfilling than reading this self-indulgent huckster. Unless you are getting a PH.D in Comparative Literature and you have two spare weeks to devote to this trash, move on. I guarantee that you'll be more confused after reading this, you'll probably have an anxiety attack, and you'll descend into the depths of despair after a few pages.
Lots of cool concepts in this book. Unfortunately I am not learned enough to understand most of them. For most of the time I felt like my dog staring at me in amazement just for existing.However, bits of it came through. I feel like I need to read his more introductory works, like How to Read Lacan.
On page 157, Žižek writes,The punk imitating the sadomasochistic power ritual is not to be conceived as a case of the victim's identification with the aggressor.
Maybe it has something to do with a grudge I've held against Pitchfork's review of The Money Store where Jayson Greene debased Death Grips' musical integrity with his exalted little quip, "The Money Store is about as intellectual an experience as a scraped knee." I mean, something as intentional as what will appear on the front of your album indicates that Death Grips are at least somewhat intellectually capable, even if it isn't as palpable a presentation as seared pate de foie gras.
It really helps to have some knowledge of Lacanian psychoanalysis beforehand: first of all, so that you can have a greater understanding of some of the basic concepts he uses and the framework he's using them in and, second of all, so that you can distinguish when he's being Lacanian from when he's being Zizekian using Lacanian terminology.
The same is true for his use of Hegel, making me wish that I had a greater understanding of Hegel before reading this.
The way he proceeds, each section makes essentially the same point, so that you end up with a kind of multi-perspectival understanding of his argument, a strange totality.
One of Zizek's first major works.
All these probably fit for him at some moment in his charged career as rockstar intellectual.
This first work is more tame than his later stuff....In fact, I think I like this Zizek more than the later one.
There is great discussion here of Politics, Philosophy, Ideology, Psychoanalysis, & Pop Culture, and it all seems to fit into a pretty consistent system of dialectical, socialist-democratic thought.
One thing I appreciate about all of Z's work is his resistance (like Badiou) to postmodern non-committalism.
Postmodernism is narccistic masturbation, and these guys are sick of it.
I don't find it as hard to read as other reviewers, nor do I find it as groundbreaking, but it is Žižek at his most coherent, I think.
One other reviewer remarked that his message is simple and "revolutionary": the subject must take responsibility for his own subjectivity.
Sure, it may be his message, but it surely isn't his idea and at the point of the publication of the book it is not revolutionary either if you have read any psychoanalysis or for that matter anything even remotely related to it.
Žižek's "revolutionary" message is a paraphrase of Lacan.
This book is also a paraphrase of Lacan.
Chapter 2 was cool -- bits of Lacanian garble that I struggled to make sense of, but I loved the literary and real-world examples Zizek uses to make his points: Pride & Prejudice, Sci-Fi, Julius Caesar, the Titanic, et al. After I finished this reading I dreamt that I time-traveled into the future, which is to say it had an impact on me.I like the idea that acceptance and necessity (change?) comes about through mis-recognition. I'm torn between 3 and 4 stars....
A must read for understanding not only political and economic systems, but also for understanding interpersonal relationships. So many problems could be either avoided or dealt with effectively if more people read and understood these theories.
peng
At some point the child must therefore ask, “What do I have to do to get her back?” “What does she want?” Desire is the other’s desire, or as Lacan put it, “Man desires the other’s desire for him (Fink, 59).” It is impossible for the child to know the m(O)ther’s desire except through creating a fantasy space that allows for the emergence of object petit a, and this is true of all human relations.This fundamental lack – the absence of the m(O)ther – is representative of the “cause” part of object petit a as object-cause of desire.
Probablemente por la falta de lecturas básicas acabarlo me ha resultado un proceso más lento de lo que me gustaría (aunque quizás podría convalidar este libro por los seminarios de Lacan y la Fenomenología del espíritu, ¿no?).
Žižek se esfuerza por repetir una y otra vez las ideas principales de la obra y creo que, aunque hacer un resumen comprensivo me parezca ahora, con el cadáver caliente del libro sobre la mesa, una tarea delicada y que va más allá de mis capacidades, la obra deja poso.
I may have honestly understood less than half of what Zizek meant to convey, but the analyses proposed were nonetheless super stimulating - I could hardly put the book down.
It's difficult to keep up with all the Lacanian terminology though...The two major takeaways I got from Zizek are: 1) ideology should be regarded in terms of how it alters people's behaviors, rather than what they know or think and 2) ideology revolves around a central "lack" or absence of meaning.
While many examples of how ideology functions in regards to antisemitism are enlightening, I do wish that Zizek better connected these ideas to their socio-political implications for a leftist like me.
But at the same time the Real is in itself a hole, a gap an opening in the middle of the symbolic order—it is the lack around which the symbolic order is structured."What allows for a passive subject in any given network of symbols of expression is *Fantasy*.
Any given act is strictly symbolic as it occurs in accordance to a mode in which the subject makes space for their activity within the symbolic order.As subjects we must ask ourselves how we are responsible for our social reality.
I make no claim to reproduce my running thoughts that arose reading this, bar one: I'm definitely not totally getting this but it sure is interesting and fun to read.
This was the kind of book were I understood each page as I read it but is impossible to summarise because I was still in the process of comprehending it.)Having only a small amount of interaction with philosophy, critique of multiple philosophers I know only basic phrases from and nothing else (i.e. Hegel) was a little over my head.
I know I want to read more Zizek, more PHILOSOPHY.
I also will admit that I'm biased against psychoanalysis.
S. in Psychology, and us science people just shake our heads at it (although I'm more open to psychoanalysis as a philosophy).
But Zizek just does a really bad job at connecting his points together.
I feel like some of the chapters don't even keep their theme and he doesn't so much build one point off of another, but rather, does a stream of consciousness where he builds off something that just comes to mind.
Работа отличная, гармоничное совмещённое обращение к Гегелю и Лакану, но каждую главу следует поглощать залпом - можно немного растеряться, если сделать, скажем, 12тичасовой перерыв в середине или даже ближе к концу, к примеру, последней (6ой).
Стоит опробовать, даже не читая Лакана - того, как он представляется здесь может оказаться вполне достаточно для дальнейшей заинтересованности в "личном (личностном) знакомстве".
