https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1624.West_with_the_Night
This letter from Ernest Hemingway to Maxwell Perkins in 1942 sums up the book better than I ever could:"Did you read Beryl Markham's book, West with the Night?
I wish you would get it and read it because it is really a bloody wonderful book."--Ernest HemingwayHemingway almost NEVER sang the praises of other writers, especially not his contemporaries.
Either way, the point is moot -- this truly is "a bloody wonderful book."One more item of note: notice the ellipsis in the last sentence of Hemingway's letter.
”Being alone in an aeroplane for even a short a time as a night and a day, irrevocably alone, with nothing to observe but your instruments and your own hands in semi-darkness, nothing to contemplate but the size of your small courage, nothing to wonder about but the beliefs, the faces, and the hopes rooted in your mind---such an experience can be as startling as the first awareness of a stranger walking by your side at night. You are the stranger.” Beryl Markham was the first woman to fly solo o
When you live anywhere for an extended period of time, like Beryl did in Kenya, you have a better chance of experiencing a true Kenya.But then there is a difference growing up an English privileged rose who has horses and all that her heart desires compared to say a young black Kenyan woman who might have a completely different experience growing up in Africa.
Mwanamali, reading this book, might catch even more than the one that I did, but in her defense, Beryl did love many native Kenyans that she met and worked with over the decades of her life.
At 18 she was the first woman horse trainer in Africa.
It is not fickle, but because it has mothered not only men, but races, and cradled not only cities, but civilizations — and seen them die, and seen new ones born again — Africa can be dispassionate, indifferent, warm, or cynical, replete with the weariness of too much wisdomI was enticed by her adventures but also by her extraordinary writing skills.
I highly recommend this book to anyone, it is literature and autobiography in the same time, a story of Africa and a story of the beauty and loneliness of flying.
Instead, the book seems as if it was written to address these issues: --Why she likes the wilderness of nature in Africa--Why she loves the African people--Why she loves horses--Why she loves flyingWithin the framework of that structure it’s wonderful.
A constant companion, he showed his mettle on a boar hunt Markham took as a young teen with her Nandi friend Kibii and his father, using spears in the traditional way.
At least David and Goliath were of the same species, but, to an elephant, a man can only be a midge with a deathly sting.It is clear that Markham respects the wisdom and integrity she found in native peoples whom she befriended and learned from.
Some of the long stories were occasionally confusing, and I think it would have been easier to follow with a print copy.I don't recall how Beryl Markham first got on my radar, but suddenly she was hugely popular thanks to the new historical novel Circling the Sun by Paula McLain.
Highly recommended, especially for those who like travel/adventure memoirs or stories about Africa.Favorite Quotes"To see ten thousand animals untamed and not branded with the symbols of human commerce is like scaling an unconquered mountain for the first time, or like finding a forest without roads or footpaths, or the blemish of an axe.
4.5 Stars After reading Paula McLain's Circling The Sun I could not wait to read more about the adventurous life of Beryl Markham.Growing up in Kenya, this amazing and fearless lady was not only a wild animal hunter, horse trainer and accomplished pilot, she was also a great story teller and writer (IMHO) as evidenced in West With The Night.Skinning animals, running with the native hunting parties for wild boar, surviving a baboon attack in her room and a near death encounter with a lion are only some of the extraordinary stories you will find in this memoir.
It is all these things but one thing--it is never dull...I have lifted my plane from the Nairobi airport for perhaps a thousand flights and I have never felt her wheels glide from the earth into the air without knowing the uncertainty and the exhilaration of firstborn adventure.Beryl Markhan was African in a way that Karen Blixen (who wrote Out of Africa under the pen name Isak Dinesen) was not--and Markham's book is the better of the two for that reason alone.
Markham knew most of the colony's colorful and often crazy luminaries and they come to life here in a way that they do not in Blixen's book.
You know then what you had always been told -- that the world once lived and grew without adding machines and newsprint and brick-walled streets and the tyranny of clocks.”You can be assured that this review will in no way be as well written as Beryl Markham's "West with the Night." Markham was one hell of a woman, yet her story seems to have been lost to history.
Hemingway famously praised this book by writing to a friend: "Did you read Beryl Markham's book, West with the Night?
Markham's writing is meant to be savored.
Embarrassment of Riches:(noun; idiomatic) An abundance or overabundance of something; too much of a good thing.
The only caveat I'd make is that the last part of the definition makes it sound like a bad thing, when in reality the plethora of descriptive and evocative prose to be found within the 294 pages of this book are about as close to reading nirvana as a I am likely to find in my lifetime.There are books.
It's impossible to convey why I loved this book so much the second time around.
Every chapter had, literally, "an embarrassment of riches" for me to re-read, consider, and savor.
It is, however, about a badass woman, who was the first person to fly solo across the Atlantic from east to west.For the most part, people have such interesting lives.
I hadn’t thought about it before, but it seems like it is entirely different to write a memoir where you treat your own story objectively and have compassion for your enemies, and another thing to be generally apathetic.
It is interesting because I am inclined to assume that Beryl Markham was one of the most passionate people in the twentieth century.There was another funny thing about this book.
Beryl Markham was an amazing woman, raised in Africa by her father after her mother tired of bush life and bolted back to England with Beryl's brother.
Beryl clearly worshipped her father, and this is quite clear in her book.In fact, there is little mention of anything but men in the memoir.
Our heroine loved the things that are dearest to men and pursued these interests while remaining strictly a woman.
Another glaring omission is that the book does not have a single photograph, map or sketch, an almost inexcusable oversight as there must be scads of photos extant.I have to admit to being quite smitten by Markham.
This is the fourth book I've read on my Beryl Markham-related splurge, which started with Paula McLain's historical fiction "Circling the Sun," which is based on Beryl's life.
"West With the Night" is Beryl's own memoir of her early life, told in chunks from childhood to her historic flight from Africa to Nova Scotia in 1936.Really good - interesting and very well written.
I admire her pluck more than I did before.There is some controversy around this book, with some believing it was actually written by her third husband Raoul Schumacher, a professional ghost-writer and journalist.
It's still her life and her stories and they're fascinating.Highly recommend.
I sit with Buller and the dead boar under the thorn tree and watch the dark come closer.The world grows bigger as the light leaves it.
If you want to know more about her personal life, read The Lives of Beryl Markham by Errol Trzebinski.The only warnings I would put on this book are general feelings of imperialist white people towards black people and violence with, by or involving animals.
It's animal violence that comes from living in Kenya, taking people on safari, raising horses, taking a dog on a hunt etc.
Most strikingly, she was not at all what I would have expected from someone growing up in colonial Africa, where expats are said to have formed an exclusive society about whom history books and literature seem to like reporting in terms of stereotypes and cliches.Markham was not like that.
Markham, of course, is known for being a famous aviatrix but she is more famous for being one of the cornerstones of the love triangle described in the oh-so-famous Out of Africa - except that Karen Blixen does not mention her.
As both a horse trainer and a pilot, she was a woman doing work in a man's world.Her love of Africa and her connection to nature are evident in the book.
As the book moved on, it shows more effects of colonialism and the buildup of defenses in northern Africa in the early 1930s.The book is well-written, and the author knows how to build up suspense as she tells about the dangerous situations Markham finds herself in during her adventures.
But even if we don't know the true author of the book, it is a wonderful story of a remarkable woman and of Africa in the 1920s and 1930s.
In 1942, Beryl Markham wrote this memoir of her early years up through her historic 1936 flight across the Atlantic from London to North America.
To me this was less of an autobiography or memoir and more of a recollection of her adventures growing up in Africa, hunting with the local tribes in British East Africa (later Kenya), training horses first with her father and then professionally, and learning to fly and becoming the first person to fly solo east across the Atlantic from London to North America.
Reading Markham is like a breath of fresh air. The world of training horses, Africa and airplanes is so deliciously foreign to me, I could have read 500 more pages. I found the writer to be undeniably feminine yet no-nonsense. I would recommend this book to all my free spirited friends.
She also had three husbands and a string of lovers, for which many people, including author Paula McLain in her terrible, terrible fictional biography, Circling the Sun, think she should be remembered.
The book covers all facets of her life through small anecdotes, so while it is not a complete biography, I felt I knew the woman well after reading this.
I found it a little difficult to get into the book at first, and I was wary after reading the terrible Circling the Sun, because I thought it was going to be boring.
I think this is a wonderful biography of an amazing woman, and more people should read it.
She also possesses a sense of humor you will never find in such abundance in Dinesen, who works from a far darker palette.
I can see why Hemingway (see his Selected Letters: 1917-1961) raved about West With the Night, calling it "...a bloody wonderful book." When Markham comes to the description of her father's farm in Njoro one is struck by the similarity with another frontier narrative, Willa Cather's My Ántonia.
Writing in 1940, however, this was not a perspective the author was even minutely aware of, and so the book becomes darker for the present day reader in a way it could probably not have been for Ms. Markham's first reading public.
3.5 starsAfter reading about Beryl Markham in Circling the Sun and giving it 5 stars, I'd heard this memoir was even better.
Is truth better than fiction, I wondered.Her memories flowed like sweet wine and many were familiar from reading the other book.
The writing is lovely; impressive.
I suspect for me at least some of the story got lost amid the beauty of the writing.Favorite stories where there was some excitement were her encounters with lions and with elephants (much interaction with Baron Bror von Blixen).
Somewhere along the way, she learned to write and gave us this book.I first read "Circling the Sun" by Paula McLain, which is a fictionalized account of Beryl Markham's life.
I'm glad I read that first, because Markham's own account of her life leaves out the husbands and lovers, just giving us what was important to her, the work of her life, the horses and airplanes, and her accomplishments.
You get the feeling that the men in her life were just a way to keep things from getting too dull.She was a true renaissance woman......and did I mention she could write?
To me it only lost perfection in the continuity of the last quarter after she left Molo and the subsequent years until she returned to Scotland.OUTSTANDING and perfectly worded to nuance, beauty, dichotomies, dirt to mountain top reality of her East Anglican Africa (now Kenya farmland /plain prime) of the 1910's, 1920's and early 1930's.
And the horse loves and battles- so Beryl.But what truly was magical, is how Beryl could detail so intrinsically and with such emotional and identity heart but did NOT relate her female role agenda.
Instead she voiced her spirit of adventurous freedom, be it one which left many physical scars.Beryl exposed Beryl without a single moan or undo negative.
If I didn't write it down I could still hold on to the author Beryl Markham and her remarkable stories a little longer.
I pleasantly surprised from the first page how immediately and fully I was pulled into the adventures and life of Beryl Markham.
The writing was eloquent and had such an easy natural flow that it was hard to put down.My only criticism is that I felt like Markham was holding back a bit on her personal life.
That being said it is still one of the best books I've read in a long time!My favorite advice from her dad was, "Work and hope.
I know Africa was a rough place in the 1930s, but surely there were some things she could have written about that did not involve hunting and killing and whipping horses to train them.
In fact, except for her affection for her horses, her plane, and her dog, it seems the author has little feeling for anyone.
If this book was indeed written by Beryl Markham and not by her third husband as some have claimed, then she wrote it in a most detached, unemotional manner.
I can only guess that she chose what she considered the most memorable events/periods in her life and wrote a chapter about each.
I wish she'd told more about her childhood, but I suspect it didn't seem all that extraordinary to her.
Along with the chapter on her childhood (attacked by a tame lion!), I especially enjoyed the chapter about her work with the famously colorful Baron Bror Von Blixen-Finecke ("Blix").
There's some really fascinating stuff about elephant behavior, and suspenseful, harrowing stories about elephant hunting.I loved her occasional very dry, extremely clever British humor.
(4.5) I’ve meant to pick this up ever since I read Paula McLain’s fantastic novel about Beryl Markham, Circling the Sun. I loved Markham’s memoir even more.
Markham’s life is so exciting it’s crying out for a movie version.
I saw the alchemy of perspective reduce my world, and all my other life, to grains in a cup.
I learned to watch, to put my trust in other hands than mine.
And I learned to wander.
Just arrived from UK through BM.Page 135:"When you flight, you get a feeling of possession that you couldn't have if you owned all of Africa.
You feel that everything you see belongs to you - all the pieces are put together, and the whole is yours; not that you want it, but because, when you're alone in a plane, there's no one to hare it.
3.75We swung over the hills and over the town and back again, and I saw how a man can be master of a craft, and how a craft can be master of an element.
I saw the alchemy of perspective reduce my world, and all my other life, to grains in a cup.
I learned to watch, to put my trust in other hands than mine.
And I learned to wander.
I learned what every dreaming child needs to know — that no horizon is so far that you cannot get above it or beyond it.
These I learned at once.
UPDATED April 2017, after listening to the audio.Audio book narrated by Julie HarrisBeryl Markham was the first woman to fly solo east to west across the Atlantic, from England to North America.
What really stands out here is her love of Africa in the early part of the 20th century.The book is full of vivid imagery, such as:An encounter with a lion: He lay sprawled in the morning sun, huge, black-maned, and gleaming with life.
He would follow scent and sound until he could see us, which, I computed would take about thirty seconds.On learning to fly: We began at the first hour of the morning.
It was an ordinary story, but Kibii and I, who knew him well, thought there was no story like it, or one as sad, and we think so now.The young man tied his shuka on his shoulder one day and took his shield and his spear and went to war.
He believed in many wives, young as he was, and in the telling of stories by the shade of the singiri.**********There is more to the passage of course, but that is for you to read.
