https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/372299.The_Hitch_Hiker_s_Guide_to_the_Galaxy
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Sonnet 42: "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy" by Douglas AdamsThe way I (probably mistakenly) see it, the answer 42 represents a view of cheery perfection.
It is the number which represents what the established order (notably religion) has told us represents the universe.
It is the number of order, sense and reason.
Neither 6 nor 9 nor 54 are particularly welcoming numbers.
Douglas Adams seems to like this view of the world.
I read the books as soon as they came out, saw the TV series (mostly the same cast as the radio) and saw a stage version that was the funniest and most anarchic thing I'd ever seen in a theatre.
Then a film version came out; it wasn't as good, but opened the door of the books to my son, so I enjoyed them in a new way, followed, a few years later, by a new stage version, by which time my son was a young adult, and enjoying it at a new level.The Answer is 42Of course, 6 x 9 is NOT 42...
After being harassed into reading it for 2.5 years, I have to say I am glad I did it, but gladder it's over and I can now read something I truly want to...and something not set somewhere along the space/time continuum.I found there to be constant peaks and troughs, some chapters or parts were brilliant and others were laborious to get through (I did have some significant and glorious naps while I read this!), and every time I thought I would just give it up it got better again.
Just brilliant!So clever and original and funny!Sorry I did not read this when I was a teenager asonly now I realise why all my friends were talking about it!
I also sent out telepathic apologies for all the mice I have squished over the years.The next book, The Restaurant At The End Of The Universe, was still entertaining, but I had the feeling that Adams was trying too hard to be clever here, and those strange yet wonderful coincidences began to appear too regularly.
I did not like this one nearly as much as I expected too, but I still wanted to see what Ford and Arthur would do next, so I kept going.I got stuck with Life, The Universe And Everything.
I have at least 42 other books I want to read so I'm throwing in the towel on this one.
Ford Prefect also provided so much comedy with him trying to explain things to Arthur.
Especially as Ford had no concept of sarcasm!The second book The Restaurant at the End of the Universe to be honest lost me a bit.
I was glad the characters I loved from the first book were still in it, like my favourite, Marvin the Paranoid Android, and the banter was still really spot on between them, but the plot completely lost me.
Douglas Adams has this tendency to explain or make fun of things that I personally found were not really related to the main story, they just made a good joke.
I read this book to understand a guy I liked. It's funny cuz it's true. And now that I don't like the guy, the book is not as interesting as it once tried to be in my life.
Arthur is rescued from certain destruction by Ford Prefect (read the book to discover how he got his name), an alien journalist who writes for the 'Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy.' They travel the galaxy together meeting rather an interesting assortment of creatures including Trillian, another human who escaped the earth's destruction by leaving some time prior with Zaphod Beeblebrox, 2-headed president of the galaxy, and Marvin, the morose android.I read this book for the first time at University while studying for a BMUS many years ago.
I first came across this book quite by accident.
I happened to over hear a friend of mine talking about how a tiny robot with a brain the size of a planet had such a depressing view of life that he managed to talk a spaceship into commiting suicide!!!What better introduction do you need into the world of the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, the largest selling book in the Universe?
And then I read it again to see if I missed anything else.To be fair the book isnt uniformly funny.
And with this book the laughs just keep on coming.
I want to write shortly about the philosophical merit of The Hitch-Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy: All western philosophy emerged and developed within the logocentric tradition.
Two axioms define this tradition.
2. A thing is always identical with itself (a=a).
It is impossible for humans to think about the world in a way that makes sense without these two axioms.
These are the limits of human capacity, but a truly infinite universe does not adhere to such limitations.
The Hitch-Hiker's Guide thus proposes to us there may not be a universal logos which determines all things, and that would explain quite a lot.
I didn't really like this book. It was so random that I couldn't really understand what was going on at some points. It had a plot that was hard to understand. It was readable I guess.
Glücklicherweise versinkt die Saga aber nie in in extraterrestrische Müllberge - den sechsten Teil vergessen wir hier jetzt einfach mal.Der Höhepunkt erfolgt natürlich gleich mit dem ersten Buch, der Eröffnung, der Grosstat von Douglas Adams.
Somit erhält der erste Teil ohne Probleme fünf Sterne.Mit den Fortsetzungen "Das Restaurant am Ende des Universums" und "Das Leben, das Universum und der ganze Rest" wird die gleiche Formel noch zwei Mal angewandt - erneut begleiten wir die bekannten Charaktere des ersten Bandes durch wilde und oft auch absurde Episoden von unfreiwilligen Abenteuer.
E ho visitato pianeti con le caratteristiche più disparate, ma nessuno è bello come la Terra - a parte forse Lamuella, per quanto abbia potuto rendermene conto da quel breve intervallo di vita che Arthur Dent ha speso laggiù.Leggere Guida galattica per gli autostoppisti è tutto questo e molto di più.
E poi c'è l'incredibile e meravigliosa Guida, una sorta di libro digitale - oggi ci riesce immensamente più facile immaginarcelo a differenza di quaranta anni fa - sulla cui copertina si legge la scritta a caratteri cubitali NIENTE PANICO.
Ecco, credo che una guida di questo genere possa essere utile anche nella vita di tutti i giorni.
My brother was my introduction to the Hitchhiker's Guide, as he was older and far more astablished in the world of pop-culture comedy, and he got the whole set and followed up by lending them to my mother, who also loves this kind of humour (she is also a Python fan), and I came to them later when I was ready to be initiated.
Read the book(s).
Until you feel better about everything.--"Even he, to whom most things that most people would think were pretty smart were pretty dumb, thought it was pretty smart." Douglas Adams, The Salmon of Doubt, p.
I got through the first book in a matter of days (I just couldn't stop...I was so engrossed) and realized just how much I enjoyed the story, characters, Adams' humor and creativity.
I made the choice to try to space this out and ride the ride as long as I could, reading it in small chunks between other books; it feels like this has been a part of my life for quite some time now.
It was a great feeling to know that I had more of the story to read, to experience, to be amazed by...between reads I would wonder how the story could progress and then I'd dive back in savouring every minute...
Acho que foi a série mais louca que já li kkk e isso faz a série ser muito legal e única. Confesso que gostei mais dos dois primeiros livros e depois a leitura se tornou um pouco cansativa e perdendo um pouco a graça. Mas mesmo assim valeu a pena ter lido, todas essas coisas loucas e bizarras me divertiram bastante.
It swallowed the cud again."Or a casserole of me perhaps?" it added."You mean this animal actually wants us to eat it?" Whispered Trillian to Ford."Me?" Said Ford, with a glazed look in his eyes.
"I don't mean anything."" That's absolutely horrible," exclaimed Arthur, "the most revolting thing I've ever heard.""What's the problem Earthman?" said Zaphod, now transferring his attention the the animal's enormus rump."I just don't want to eat an animal that's standing there inviting me to." said Arthur.
"It's hearless.""Better than eating an animal that doesn't want to be eaten." said Zaphod."-pg.
In effetti, nel corso dei cinque libri, non solo Adams ha dimostrato di essere un eccellente narratore, ma ha dimostrato di avere una fantasia invidiabile visto il modo in cui ha ricollegato certi eventi che si ritrovavano in ogni libro e che sembravano di poco conto, salvo poi rivelarsi cruciali nello sviluppo della trama di tutto il ciclo.
There are some boring chapters, but doesn't really matter when you've got 700++ pages of pure awesomeness!There's something about the book that made me keep reading, without slowing down, even through the really boring chapters (or maybe it's because my exams start in a week).This book is so weird!
But, all that comedy kind of enhances the serious bits.
You really start to question a lot of things in life.(view spoiler)[Another thing, I really hope people (not necessarily humans) never harnesses the power of time traveling and moving between parallel universes (or whatever you might call them; that bit about universes not being parallel messed up my understanding).
(hide spoiler)]
“In molte delle civiltà meno formaliste dell’Orlo Esterno Est della Galassia, la Guida galattica per gli autostoppisti ha già soppiantato la grande Enciclopedia Galattica, diventando la depositaria di tutto il sapere e di tutta la scienza, perché nonostante presenti molte lacune e contenga molte notizie spurie (…) ha due importanti vantaggi rispetto alla più vecchia e più accademica Enciclopedia.Uno, costa un po’ meno; due, ha stampate in copertina, a grandi caratteri che ispirano fiducia, le parole NON FATEVI PRENDERE DAL PANICO."Arthur Dent si sveglia una mattina e scopre che fuori casa sua ci sono delle grandi ruspe gialle.
I tre sono alla ricerca del pianeta Magrathea, il leggendario luogo dove dovrebbero vivere coloro ai quali è stata commissionata la costruzione della terra.
Il primo libro è molto divertente e scritto bene, dalla presentazione dei personaggi alla ricerca della risposta sulla vita e l'universo...Poi il tutto si perde nei libri dopo, continui a leggere sperando che tutto prima o poi si ricolleghi alla trama principale, ma niente...il ciclo completo contiene una serie di eventi sconnessi tra loro ma divertenti.
what a ride... and dont underestimate the stupigeniusity of total idiots :D
Space Travel + Monty Python.John Cleese has to be around here somewhere. "It is a mistake to think you can solve any major problems just with potatoes."
Mestariteos
A fascinating, beautiful story that every hitchhiker should read. It took me too many years to re-discover this book, but I've really enjoyed it, although I guess I'd need to live for some time in the UK just to get all the little private jokes that can be found all around the book.
yes, I've already read these a few times, but after subjecting myself to the torture of The Elegance of The Hedgehog I felt I'd earned a little time with my old friend.
Some people hate to reread books, and I understand their point: there are loads of great books and they want to read as many as possible.
I, on the other hand, think of certain books as old friends and sometimes I just don't have the energy to expend on developing a new relationship.
I want to spend time with someone whose company I already know delights me and who, while predictable, will make me laugh and feel good.
My older Bro had this text game of this book and suggested i read it to better understand the game didn't help with the game too much but it was a life changeing event opend my eyes to looking at things differently, introduced me to existentialism. and a fantastic way to think and be if i had read the following books then i would not be who i am now finised the series mabe 10 years after reading the first...
I enjoyed the first book in this omnibus, but by the time I got about 2/3 into the second one, the aggressive whimsy was driving me nuts. I think this works much better in the way it was originally conceived -- small installments leaving you wanting another taste after a decent interval. In a binge its just much too cute for me.
It's the first book in his trilogy of 5 and it was apsolutly amazing. I can't believe I've wait this long to read these books. If you haven't read this book you must. I can't remember the last time I've laughed out this much while reading a book. My fiance has read them, as they are his books, so when ever he hears crack up he wants to know what part I'm at. It is such a refreshing read.
Letto il primo libro. Primo o poi continuerò leggendo gli altri. Forse. Primo o poi. Quando mi torna la voglia.
