https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53817.What_s_So_Amazing_About_Grace_
STILL one of the best books I've ever read, of ANY genre -- also one of the few I've read as many as FIVE times (so far), most recently aloud with my wife, who has long struggled with clinical depression and was deeply encouraged by this work.I've been a Christian for some forty years and have found much 'religious' writing unbearable, particularly that written over the past century (with certain notable exceptions).
Grace indeed emerges as what Yancey calls 'the last best word' for us all.
Few books reveal the core of what the grace of the gospel of Jesus Christ is in its frightening, glorious, unparalled nature.
Yancey comes very close to doing so in using an array of diverse, complex, beautiful, and amazing stories to illustrate the true grace of the gospel.
These stories aren't cheesy, long-winded, and annoying--as many Christian books succumb to when authors seek to illustrate spiritual/Christian concepts through stories--but are transparent, beautiful, sometimes shocking, and unbelievable stories of grace.
Read Yancey and this book: he really understands grace and is one of the few clever, creative, gifted Christian authors today.
Yancey is thorough in his examples of grace. He uses his own life experiences, everything from being part of a racist church as a child to interviewing President Clinton to dissect grace. Yancey is clear, grace is the true message of Jesus and today's Christians as a whole are not doing a great job of relaying this message. Grace is the idea that God loves us--all of us--no matter what; no one has to earn God's love. Yancey presents many ways in which the world needs grace. His argument is powerful and thought-provoking.
و هر دو ستاره به این دلیل بود که نویسنده چهارصد صفحه به انسان ها این امید رو داد که قراره مورد لطف خدا قرار بگیرند و نگران گناهایی که تاحالا مرتکب شدن نباشند.
ولی در مقابل صفحات خیلی کمی رو اختصاص داد به این که فیض نباید چنان مایه ی دلخوشی بشه که انسان خودش رو به هر گناهی آلوده بکنه با این امید که قراره مورد بخشش قرار بگیره در هر صورت.
و به نظرم این تاثیر خیلی بدی روی اقشار مختلف جامعه داره و به همین دلیل 2 ستاره کم کردن بی عدالتی نیست .
This book contains a good exploration of the concept of grace, not from a heavy theological perspective but a simpler, practical one, by presenting many modern examples of grace in action along side Biblical references.
I would not say it contains anything groundbreaking for someone not new to Christianity, but just plenty of good reminders of how grace and love for God and our fellow man should look, and what they mean for us and for those we share these things with.
This strikes me as how the church is meant to be, nobody faking it, and everybody receiving grace because we are all sympathetic to each other's struggles.
The first time I encountered Philip Yancey was through his book, Disappointment with God, and it was during one of the tumultuous moments of my life.
And what book to better start this grace journey than another Philip Yancey?What’s So Amazing About Grace?
The good thing about this book, about grace, in fact, was that it talked about forgiveness – one thing that I badly needed.What made reading this book easy were the references to the parables in the Bible and the real life experiences of the author.
I had the most wonderful reading experience with What’s So Amazing About Grace?
This book has honestly changed my perspective on Christianity, religion, politics and my own relationship with Jesus.
If I am supposed to be living as an example of Christ to the rest of the world, why do I so often miss the boat when it comes to grace?
Now as Christians we have to start showing the rest of the world that fact!If you get nothing else out of this book I hope you get that God loves you more than you can even imagine!
Christianity is a relationship, not a dictatorship.
I got the "visual" edition of this book from Stephie right after I became a Christian in South Africa.
(Later I read the full edition)So I got to dwell by myself in Africa with a Bible, this book, and an RC Sproul book.The visual pages of What's So Amazing About Grace unfolded as amazing news!
God has pardoned dirty criminals through the death of his Son?
by grace?
My death sentence for hating God has been paid for by another...
An easy to read book about one of my favorite words in the English language. It only took so long to read because I hid my Kindle from the GKid then forgot where. But it's the kind of book you can pick up anytime and jump back in. Yancey is a natural story teller and I felt encouraged and enlightened by his examples of grace. Four and a half stars
Philip Yancy has had the experience of being the target of hate mail from Christians.
This book also contains an on-target assessment of why law can never do what the gospel can -- the law can close stores, but not make you worship; it can make divorce difficult but cannot make a husband love his wife, etc.I also enjoyed the analogy in Chapter 19, "Patches of Green," where after a forest fire, the first patches of new growth were seen where an elk / moose died.
Yancy uses Romans 6-7 to deal with the objection "Why be good, if you get forgiven?" (pages 183-191) A good book to reread regularly, so we grow in grace!
Yancey makes it clear how very beautiful and simple Grace is.
Throughout the book Yancey makes clear how very powerful Grace can be...
In the end I came away with the message that it is up to each of us as individuals to live a life of grace and carry that message out into the world.
If the world you see reflected back is not one with grace, it is up to us to act differently to change that.
Perhaps we should all just start with the end in mind, and that may be as simple as a recognition of the fact that Grace can change the world.
He also discusses the intolerance of Christians toward homosexuals and many other people and points out that while we are freely given the grace of God we are pretty selfish about being "grace-full" ourselves, and that makes us less than Christian His book begins and ends with a story about a woman who was living a very sinful life, and when she was asked if she had gone to the church for help she responded, "Why would I ever go there?
They'd just make me feel worse." And he asks if it is possible for us as Christians to extend the same love and forgiveness to our fellow beings that we receive so freely from God?
Just make sure you read a good dose of your Bible before you read Yancy's anecdotes.Oftentimes, when I write a review like this, the post modern challenge is: "Do you have a lock on what the Bible says?" or "How do you know you are right and the author is wrong?" To give some answers to these recurring questions, I am posting additional resources below for those who would like to explore the Biblical teachings embraced by Christians for, literally, hundreds of years.
For those who want to hear, there are plenty of strong, researched voices to whom you can listen.Tim Challieshttp://www.challies.com/general-news/...Greg Gilberthttps://9marks.org/review/whats-so-am...
THE GOOD: Not much.THE BAD: Does not clearly define grace and it just seemed to me like he was constantly walking around the subject the whole time. Was not very interesting, although occasionally inspirational. Would not particularly recommend.THE UGLY: Almost did not finish reading this book. Don't waste your time.
I do so because I know, more surely than I know anything, that any pang of healing or forgiveness or goodness I have ever felt comes solely from the grace of God. I yearn for the church to become a nourishing culture of that grace.I believe Jesus gave us these stories to call us to step completely outside our tit-for-tat world of ungrace and enter into God’s realm of infinite grace."If John were to be asked, 'What is your primary identity in life?' he would not reply, 'I am a disciple, an apostle, an evangelist, an author of one of the four Gospels,' but rather, 'I am the one Jesus loves.'" Brennan ManningAt last I understood: in the final analysis, forgiveness is an act of faith.
Timeless in message, and ought to be dated in anecdotes, but surprisingly remains extraordinarily contemporary in his overview of the gracelessness of the evangelical right. Yet the real value of this powerful book remains in his examples of those who practice graceful living rather than those who sadly choose a graceless life.
Rec by Jenny.
النعمة: الهبة التي تكلف واهبها كل شئ ولا تكلف المستفيد منها شيئاً فالنعمة ايها الاصدقاء لا تطلب منا 
This is one of the most important books I have read about Christian spirituality. Yancey digs back to the heart of the Christian gospel: that grace is a gift freely given by God and needed by all of us. While reading this book I cried from sorrow about my own depravity and from joy because my life can be made new. As a Christian, my purpose is not to judge or damn the world, but view it through "grace tinted lenses". Very good book. Very life-changing.
He is even honest enough to allow that Fundamentalism's approach to belief may not be perfect, a difficult assertion for a member of a movement that values obedience to authority above all else to make.
Yancey, for example, can understand that a gay friend is hurt by self righteous Fundamentalists telling him he's going to hell and his sins are unforgivable.
Still Yancey will not even for a nanosecond allow himself to wonder if maybe Fundamentalism is known by its fruits, and if its fruits are hatred and bigotry it might be time to pause and reflect.
Yancey is quick to tell us that ultimately, he too, has to consign his friend to hell.
I believe this is my third time reading this book.
This must be the first time I have read it in over a decade and I am glad to say, all it did now was confirm and solidify my beliefs and understanding of Christ.
So, so much I could say about how this book, written from a very intellectual perspective, challenges us to see ourselves and others the way Jesus sees us.
It is both a challenging and encouraging book.
Highly recommend it and hope to read it again myself someday, to be sure I keep on track loving rather than judging others.Fourth time reading it, beginning of 2017.
This is one of the books that I both like and hate.
Many of those who call themselves Christians seem to have an attitude of hate rather than love; who are bent on making rules and making sure everybody follows it, an "modern day pharisee".
A world who uses the grace of God for the occasion of the flesh, a world who prefers to trample the blood of Christ underfoot, does not need a book that might further encourage such attitude.This was an interesting read but a book I would not recommend to anybody.
This is my favorite book by one of my favorite authors, definitely my favorite author in the modern Christian non-fiction genre.
Philip Yancey is so good at criticizing the Evangelical subculture from within.
As he explains early in the book, there's lots to dislike about the church today.
But the church is where God's grace is.
This book convicted me about recognizing the grace God has given me.
Any believer is sure to struggle with grace.
And a non-believer would get a much better picture of Christianity by reading this compared to just about any other book out there.
I have had this book for a couple years, started it a few times but never finished it until now.
I'm so glad I finally read it.
It's very thought-provoking but more than that it is moving.
Grace, we are shown, really is amazing!
Furthermore it applies to individuals, families, churches, even countries.This made me take stock of my own life, and that I think is why this book is worth the read.
This book reintroduces us to what God really offers us and reminds us how this is to spread outward from us - and then inspired me to act.
Philip Yancey is one of my very favorite Christian authors. I loved his book "Prayer" and now this one. I can't wait to read the rest. This book has so many great things to say - such as:God dispenses gifts, not wages.In the realm of grace, the word DESERVE does no even apply.The only thing harder than forgiveness is the alternative.Believers who are most desperate about themselves are the ones who express most forcefully their confidence in grace.And so on. Oh, read it. It's just wonderful!
One of the more provocative books I've read as a Christian in some time.
Very relevant today.
A call for the church to cast off from being consumed with power in favour of grace.
Yancey exposes how much of the problems within the church and how it is viewed is largely the result of this mistake, and the church will suffer greatly for this error.
The church appears to forgotten its mission of changing the world on an individual level, instead attempt to usurp the powers of politics to compel change unilaterally both in the United States and beyond.A very necessary read today.
Definitely one of the most moving, and thoughtful books I've read. The author, Philip Yancey, writes in a very down to earth, easy to follow manner about what grace truly is. Using stories, and examples of situations that happened in his and other peoples lives, he is able to paint us a picture of how truly awesome the power of grace is. One that I think many of us can easily relate to, as we learn how lucky we are to have the opportunity of Grace.It is a truly humbling read, and I'd recommend it to Christians and Non-Christians alike.
~ “Disa prej nesh, kemi frike kaq shume nga ferri, saqe harrojme te gezojme udhetimin tone drejte parajses.”~ “Falja => te clirosh, te flakesh tej, te lirosh veten.”~ “Bota eshte e etur per hir. Kur hiri zbret, bota bie ne heshtje perpara tij.”C’TE MIRE KA NJE RRUGE, E CILA NUK TE CON NE NJE KISHE?
Yancey is my favorite Christian writer. This book explains grace and how there is nothing we can do to make God love us any more or less. He simply loves us, regardless of anything. From his grace towards us, we can then learn to be graceful to others - become less judgemental, more forgiving, and significantly more at peace with life.
Grace is such an overlooked word in the modern english language but it is the peculiar distinction that separates the Christian faith apart from all other religions. When Christians stop and actually investigate the Bible, we find that the Bible is littered with grace, beginning all the way in Genesis!
