https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31117072-a-hero-born
I wanted to like this famous Chinese series, it looked amazing and a beautiful cover but maybe it’s the translation but it seemed amateurish and clumsy, I just couldn’t get in to this and I am so disappointed
It was advertised as a Chinese LOTR but I feel like it has nothing similar at all.
Its a style in itself, Wuxia, which is pretty much fable type chinese martial arts.
I found the dialogue a little cheesy or YAish, but I guess that might be the translation.
My issue was all the different martial arts schools and moves.
I think as a novel its sometimes hard to describe or visualize these moves.
In my opinion its easier to portray moves like this in a film.
Worth a read if you want something a little different and original.
Just dont expect a LOTR style novel.
And it was fun to have Qiu Chuji, whom you might know as the aged Daoist priest who met Chinggis Khan late in his career, as an irascible fighting hero, whose introduction was strongly redolent of cloaked, dark Aragorn before we know he's not a bad guy.Talking of Chinggis, I enjoyed the Mongol parts, which tell the main events of the Secret History of the Mongols, if briefly: Temujin's relations with Ong Khan (Toghrul) and Jamuqa.
The big bads are not historical people (this saves the book from taking sides too much in history) but fantasy dark martial artists, pitted against the 'freaks' who are yet good.
First, two of the blurbs compared the whole Legends of the Condor Heroes series to the Lord of the Rings, and it never excites me to see that something is "the Lord of the Rings, but X"—because, leaving aside Tolkien's problematic race and gender stuff, I don't want to see something I've seen before, I want something that is entirely different.
Can an action & adventure epic written in the 1950s have enough unexpected deaths and betrayals to shock a reader who watches Game of Thrones?
However, I still whole-heartenedly wish for this English translation to perform well so more Jin Yong's novels will see the daylight in the English world!The publisher had marketed this book as an Eastern A Game of Thrones but I don't think it's a honest move because aside from a bit of court intrigues here and there, this novel is nothing like A Game of Thrones.
In my opinion, if you enjoyed Andrzej Sapkowski's fantasy adventure novels, you might also like Jin Yong's stuff, that's it.
My viewpoint is from one who read this translation side by side with the original while asking questions to a friend who grew up with it over WhatsApp. A Hero Born is not the Chinese "Lord of the Rings".
The characters are straightforward, the plot is predictable and telegraphed in the first few pages, and the prose(especially in this translation) is basic.
Jin Yong's series of books is full of crazy and exciting story arcs.
I think Guo Jing's story is best for a beach read, a road trip, or a long flight where you need something simple and fun to pass the time.
This first volume is an excellent story of the young life and education of a future hero in a world where practitioners of the martial arts can perform supernatural feats.This book obviously owes a good deal to the classics of Chinese literature like Romance of the Three Kingdoms and Water Margin, but with more modern pacing and characterizations.
While it doesn't have an overabundance of strong female characters, it lacks the outright misogyny found in some earlier works.I've seen comments to the effect that non-Chinese can't really appreciate these stories, and while I may be missing subtleties, I don't really think that's the case.
THIS BOOK IS AMAZING & so well written. amazing plot, amazing characters, everything about the book is just indescribably wonderful. EXCEPT THE ENDING. WHY WOULD YOU CUT IT OFF THERE, I’M DYING & DON’T HAVE THE NEXT BOOK AGHHHH BECAUSE IT COMES OUT IN JANUARY WTH I CAN’T WAIT THAT LONG I WILL PERISH
i was very lucky to be accepted to read this book early for a review via netgalley.
this book is actually a translation of a classic chinese fantasy series, but the Anna holmwood has done a fantastic job and given the story a fresh and new feel in my opinion.
i would highly recommend you read this book, i was captivated from the very first pages.
i have to wait a whole year for the next in the series.
if i had more confidence in ky linguistic capabilities i would learn chinese so i can read-on, although it will be quicker for me to just wait for the next transpated version.happy reading.
I really enjoyed this book. Different in style than a western style fantasy you can picture the various Kung-Fu battles and fights from the evocative name of each move!(review on Fantasy-Faction.com soon!)
My first Chinese fantasy tale and it’s so refreshing and often progressive in terms of action and the role of women. But most of al so my FUNFull review at https://www.runalongtheshelves.net/bl...
My first Chinese fantasy tale and it’s so refreshing and often progressive in terms of action and the role of women. But most of al so my FUNFull review at ‪https://www.runalongtheshelves.net/bl...‬
I was a bit dubious at first, but once you get a couple of chapters in you will be totally engrossed.
By the time I was two thirds through I started getting anxious about the wait for the next in the series.
In terms of plot, there's a lot of influences at work from scenes that could be lifted straight from a classic kungfu movie too characters/descriptions that practically scream Romance of the Three Kingdoms.
Made me a bit sad that I didn't know enough about the post ww2 political climate in China and how it might have matched up to the themes of corrupt officials failing their people and weak leaders being manipulated by foreign powers.
Calling this the "Chinese Lord of the Rings" is a disservice to this book. It is a Chinese fantasy epic and was a fantastic read.
This is the first time that this classic of Wuxia fiction has been translated into English.
Anna Holmwood has done a fantastic job of translating the text, but I suspect there are whole layers of meaning and allegory that are invisible to a Western reader without further explanation.A Hero Born is the first in the Condor trilogy, following two boys in 13th century China.
The story principally follows Guo Jing as he grows up in Genghis Khan's tribe.
Lying at the heart of this book is a story about a kind boy growing up far away from home and trying to make his way in a confusing world.
I really struggled to read this book and if it wasn't that short I would have put it down unfinished.
I came to it because I heard good hype about how this is the "chinese lord of the rings" and etc but all I got is a childish plot with thin worldbuilding and lots of lots of boring tedious kung fu battles.
In the Kung Fu battles themselves are just a boring sequence of named moves where you don't really get an idea what's going on.I don't know if it's a translation thing and this book is so much better in chinese but in english it isn't worth much.
The inconsistency of the names turns me off - some are retained in their pinyin form i.e. Guo Jing and others are literally translated i.e. Lotus Huang. It took me a while to figure out who the character actually is, and I would have much appreciated if the names were all retained in their pin yin form, to maintain authenticity and for an easier read. Nonetheless, you can see the effort put in into the translation, even if it's not as good as hoped. Also, the prologue did help in placing the story into context.
This is an excellent translation of a book I thought to be untranslatable. I really enjoyed the writing style and my pleasure was not diminished by the unobtrusive footnotes throughout the text. I sincerely hope that Anna Holmwood will have energy enough to keep translating the rest of the series and that MacLehose Press will continue publishing those translations.
I couldn't figure out the good vs bad guys for the first 100 pages, but then didn't care because the story suddenly engrossed me. The inclusion of strong, complex female characters is a huge plus. I appreciate the list of characters at the beginning, but wish the translation also included a map. I eagerly wait for next 11 (!) volumes.
Awesome. I want to practice my qi-gong and fly through the air after reading this.
What a ride!I’m sure that I have missed many a traditional or obvious layering but I have probably never read a book quite like this.I have, however, seen many animes that follow a similar pattern of training, skill and most magical abilities. And a few wuxia movies.These books are known as the Chinese Lord of the Rings, and I understand why. I will look for the next book, I don’t know if it’s bern translated yet.
Chances are, if you know someone who grew up in China, Hong Kong, or Taiwan, they know of Jin Yong--most likely because they've read his wuxia (martial-arts hero) novels or seen the stories on TV.The narrative style is very thin and, unfortunately, the atmosphere is lacking.
It's a very quick, light read, and all the information you need to know about Chinese history and the wuxia culture are either explained in the text or else in the introductory comments or the appendices.The plot and characters are something that I can only describe as a lite version of Charles Dickens, set in the martial-arts world of China.
A great book and glad to see the English translationMy son like the story and he is looking forward the next one! Hope more books of Jing Yong can be translated into English! Thanks
I haven't read the English version, but I read the Chinese version many years ago. Those of you who like Book 1 definitely want to read the remaining ones. The story will be become a lot more exciting later on. Jin Yong's stories have very complex plots. Later chapters tend to be a lot more interesting than the first several chapters.
The awkward and sometimes odd translations of the characters' names and martial arts moves aside, I quite enjoyed this translation. I've not read the original Chinese so I can't compare how it holds up against that though. I suspect the fight scenes would be way cooler in Chinese :p
Due to my poor command of Mandarin, I have never dared attempt to read this before. Thank you, Ms. Anna Holmwood for such a great translation that I can finally enjoy Jin Yong’s fabulous epic.
One of the funnest books I’ve read. I only wish they can translate the other books faster.
A great adventure novel, cannot wait for the next volume to be translated.
This is being marketed as the Chinese Lord of the RIngs and it surprisingly lived up to its billing. My family can't wait for the next volume due to be translated in 2019.
Holmwood’s work included some pretty basic errors (e.g. subject-verb agreement and obvious typos) and, worse, un-idiomatic and confusing language.
One challenge confronting a translator in this context is how to recreate the style of the original work in a new language.
The text here felt like Holmwood had opted for a very literal translation, which seemed clunky and clumsy and confusing to me in many places.
All that said, there were lots of things I liked about this book!
Legend of Condor, by Jin Yong, who is the most widely read contemporary author writing in Chinese, is the first book I have read in the Wuxia genre; a genre of Chinese fiction concerning the adventures of martial artists in ancient China.
