https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1714576.Economic_Calculation_in_the_Socialist_Commonwealth
as an expression of recognition for the great service rendered by him and as a memento of the prime importance of sound economic accounting, a statue of Professor Mises ought to occupy an honorable place in the great hall of the Ministry of Socialization or of the Central Planning Board of the socialist state."I'm not certain as to whether or not he was flattered by the prospect of having his marble bust featured in a soviet-polish vestibule, but I do know the following:(1) Socialism rejects the notion of privately owned modes of production and replaces it with a public or nationalized version.(2) This necessarily disrupts the intricate monetary calculations that are vital for connecting production goods of a 'higher order' and consumption goods of a 'lower order' in a market economy.
A small, efficient tome readily accessible to anyone with a little bit of patience - enough to put the book down and think every once in a while - as to why socialist economics is, ultimately, oxymoronic. If anything von Mises has been vindicated with the fullness of time in this, as stories of GOSPLAN fixing prices to Sears catalogs and North Korea pricing food in its restaurants wildly can attest.
A socialist economy can only work when it still has prices to operate with, either from its own past (which naturally stands in the way of any progress at all) or by capitalist neighbors as in the case of the USSR and similar countries, or when it fully succumbs to primitivism and stops using production goods of a higher order.
They really help with the understanding, and include some additional information on how Hayeks and Mises' theories relate to each other and how the latters argument has been misunderstood by economists of all schools, from socialists to fellow Austrians.
Great essay presenting arguments for the fact that in a planned economy there is no rational economic calculation.
Any form of socialist planning is doomed to fail, because it is impossible to rationally plan production (how, what, when, where) without calculation based on the market price system and profits.
Through this socialism will always be much less effective than free-market economy.
It is also worth to reach for Human Action written by Ludwig von Mises.
In that book Mises ebunks attacks of socialists and provides new arguments for his statement.//polishŚwietny esej przedstawiający argumenty za tym, że w gospodarce planowanej nie istnieje racjonalna kalkulacja ekonomiczna.
Brandon's review is a great explanation of what this essay is about, namely that Socialism fails because it is impossible for central planners to make rational decisions about the economy.I find it stunning that the key failure of Socialism was so clearly identified a century ago, really before it even got started in practice.
Mises must have been a truly brilliant thinker to be able to see through the hype and succinctly summarize the critical issue.
I can certainly understand why that pushed things over the edge!
A short but indispensable essay on the absolute failure of the State when it comes and tries to intervene, "fix" or organize. The Eastern Bloc failed long time ago and collapsed for everyone to see, yet there remain many people wishing for Socialist implementations of all sorts (the ecologists perhabps the more active nowadays, but by no means the only ones). These people should read this and try to understand, neither of which they will do, since Socialism much resembles a religion (as Freud presciently said long ago). This booklet shows how and why Socialism failed and will always do.
Not a book for beginners. I give it 4 stars instead of 5 because Solerno is able to present all the information in this book in a manner that is less headache inducing.The argument is well presented and the logic is rock solid, it did however take me reading this twice to grasp the entire argument.A good book for those who already have a basic concept of economics and economic thought.
Um bom livro que trata sobre a impossibilidade do cálculo econômico sob o socialismo. O mais interessante é que Mises dá todas as vantagens para o modelo socialista e mesmo assim prova sua impossibilidade.
Can't go wrong with Mises. One of the men who tackled the problem of economic calculation in socialism. I recommend also Menger, Hayek, Friedman and Sowell.
Neste ensaio, escrito em 1920, Mises demonstra, com lógica irreparável, que a extinção da propriedade privada torna impossível a manutenção de um sistema de preços, a estimativa racional de custos e a composição eficiente de fatores de produção, demonstrando a inviabilidade do cálculo econômico em uma sociedade socialista.É muito interessante perceber como o autor realiza este feito ao melhor estilo da Escola Austríaca de Economia. Sem contas mirabolantes ou modelos matemáticos extravagantes, Mises analisa praxeologicamente o comportamento dos agentes econômicos entre ambientes capitalistas e socialistas.
"eben im Marktverkehr für alle Arten von verwendeten Gütern und Arbeiten Marktpreise gebildet werden, die zur Grundlage der Rechnung genommen werden können. Wo der freie Marktverkehr fehlt, gibt es keine Preisbildung; ohne Preisbildung gibt es keine Wirtschaftsrechnung.""Is precisely in market dealings that market prices are formed for all kinds of goods and services, which will be taken as the bases of calculation. Where there is no free market, there is no pricing mechanism; without a pricing
"eben im Marktverkehr für alle Arten von verwendeten Gütern und Arbeiten Marktpreise gebildet werden, die zur Grundlage der Rechnung genommen werden können. Wo der freie Marktverkehr fehlt, gibt es keine Preisbildung; ohne Preisbildung gibt es keine Wirtschaftsrechnung."‎"Is precisely in market dealings that market prices are formed for all kinds of goods and services, which will be taken as the bases of calculation. Where there is no free market, there is no pricing mechanism; without a pricing mechanism, there is no economic calculation."
This is a great book revealing how socialism is irrational. The socialist system is impossible because it lacks a price structure on which to move the factors of production. True, some socialist states eek by, but only precariously and socially parasitically relying on prices from markets that are still mostly free.
Mises shows the problem of economic calculations in a socialist society and why this economic method can not be applied in the real world. With a clear train of thoughts and strong arguments, Mises made an essential work for full understanding of one of the reasons of why the socialists governments have failed.
Brief critique of the lack of pricing in state socialism.
This booklet does a great job of dismantling the concept of a socialist economy without getting into the mess of moral issues.
Very interesting read. A bit hard when you're sick and read it right before bed, but absolutely understandable.
The intellectual failure of socialism exposed with surgical precision. Essential.http://wp.me/p6lj8t-6F
Von Mises makes you really laugh at this system. The book is actually funny in places. (or tragic)
One word - Masterpiece!
One half of the socialist calculation debate (the other being Lange's work) and von Mises' lasting addition to the canon of economics.
The socialist economy does away with private property, and therefore, in the absence of free trade, the actual economic value of a product (the price) is next to impossible to calculate.
Even though the socialist planners can gather all the necessary data and expertise necessary for engineering and construction, just what is it about monetary calculation that is so important… this is something which I think that Mises does a good job of explaining.
In my quest to go beyond the book, to find different people who explained the same material with different eyes, I found the following resources which I think will also benefit those who are interested.Resources:The Book: https://mises.org/library/economic-ca...
