https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96861.Anywhere_But_Here
It is about the relationship between a mother and daughter -Adele and Ann. They journey together to California, to a life Adele is seeking but can never attain.
She can never attain what she is seeking partly because she is unable to accept what she has, partly due to not recognizing what it is she is and is seeking, and partly due to her crazy longing for a self and way of life that is not embedded in reality.Adele is crazy, cruel, self-centered , almost sociopathic, yet she has a uniqueness and childlike quality that is almost endearing.
However, it's a short paragraph, of no tremendous significance in light of the reality of Adele and Ann's relationship.
Started reading it for the first time recently because my two-year-old pulled it off the shelf and put it in my lap on a lazy day when we weren't doing much.
While you realize pretty quickly that things are not quite right between the main characters, and that poor 12-year-old Ann is surely suffering because of it, it takes a little while to realize just how grim Ann's existence really is, and just how sick her mother really is.
I'm quite sure the rest of this book is probably a good read.
Great multi-generational physchological study of the female coming-of-age experience! Also, a STELLAR first novel by Steve Jobs' biological sister.
Mona Simpson is Steve Jobs' sister and I first heard about this book in Jobs' autobiography by Walter Isaacson. The book was given rave reviews wherever I looked, but I just couldn't get into it. I found it quite dark and depressing - not the genre I want to be in right now. I'll give it another go sometime soon. What I did read was definitely well-written.
Ann does hate her at times; Adele does indeed come pretty close to ruining Ann's life on numerous occasions, or at least scarring it, and yet, ultimately, it isn't possible not to love her.
When we come upon Ann's proclamation that "it's always the people like my mother, who start the noise and bang things, who make you feel the worst; they are the ones who get your love." It's startling to realize how heartily we agree with her.
Mona Simpson's debut novel is pretty much a memoir, which could be titled "This Girl's Life." It's a tale of a single mother (Adele) and her daughter (Ann) and the challenges they face over the years, first in Wisconsin where Adele's from and later in SoCal when Ann's a tween/teen and her mother has delusions of making her a child star.
The book is written in first person but via three separate POV's: Ann's, Adele's and Carol's (Adele's sister and Carol's aunt).
I'd suggest skipping those sections altogether, it would make the book a much more pleasurable read...
but immediately upon reading the book, i could see that adelle was not just kooky or starstruck, this was a woman suffering from a serious mental disorder.
one of the main themes in this book is boundaries between family members and people in general, and how if they are blurred/trampled upon in childhood (whether through sexual, physical, or verbal abuse) there are lasting effects into adulthood.
the book was super disturbing to read, but i could tell that the daughter ann had a firmer sense of boundaries, and that gave me hope for her future.
A brilliantly drawn portrait of a dysfunctional mother-daughter relationship (along with tour-de-force sketches of their kin) that is both eccentric and eerily familiar.
We can't believe such a selfish, smart, dysfunctional mother exists, yet still empathize and even recognize flashes of our own motives in her.
We ache for the daughter and wonder how she will survive and keep bouncing back (and always again toward her mother!) This is one of those master novels that makes cinema-lovers like me think movies are a feeble, one-dimensional medium.
I recently reread this book and loved it. I think Simpson sets the stage for many of the disenchanted teenage girls who have since become so important in the cultural dialogue (I'm thinking about My So-Called Life and Daria, maybe even Buffy), or at least among Gen-Xers, and the mother Adele is a pitch-perfect description of someone sadly/hilariously on the brink of losing her sanity. I will never not love this book, sorry haters!
As to the writing, everything else fell away - the mom was characterized very well (albeit really annoyingly, and difficult to read at times, as she time and again put herself first and then made Ann feel bad for being 'selfish') but there were a lot of avenues that were not explored, a lot of plot twists that were not explained, and Ann's growth of finally learning to take a stand for herself didn't seem to come about through real development.
Slow, boring and dull, this book disappoints. The last straw was when the daughter starts taking semi-pornographic photos of other children. I don't find this engaging or entertaining. It just gives me a bad feeling all over. Nor did I find the mother to be a particularly engaging character.I tried three times to read this book and finally gave up.
F@$!#&* comma splices!! Reading this drove me crazy. I couldn't decide whether to be more annoyed by the sentences, the narrative (lack of) structure, or the celebrated assholery of the characters. Thematically, this book is right up my alley, and I wanted to like it, but it was so poorly executed. Don't even get me started on the wrong Great Lake...
2.5 starsI'm confused by the rave reviews for this book. The mother-daughter relationship is a pivotal, intriguing, and never simple one, and I suppose the multi-generational, semi-memoir like point of view changes gave interesting insight into this particular mother-daughter relationship, but really, this book was a long, boring look at a delusional mother and what she puts her daughter Ann through. But Ann's voice was the weakest in the book in my opinion, and while she gained my sympathy for dealing with her mother, I never quite liked her either.
طبق کتاب زندگینامه استیو جابز، این کتاب نوشته خواهر استیو جابز و بر اساس زندگی مادر بیلوژیکی استیو جابز (خانم جوآن شیبل جندلی سیمپسون) نوشته شده
A painful-joyous roller-coaster of a mother-daughter relationship. Simpson gets under the skin of blockbuster emotion, and the honesty of her characters stops you short, leaves you wondering why all other protagonists are so flat.
Ann is the most prominent narrator, telling us about her mother's cruelties, such as kicking her out of the car on a highway multiple times or blaming her troubles on Ann. Adele also talks way too much about her sex life with Adele at a young age, like 10 years old -- arguing that Ann "needs to know what life is really like." Although broke, they never eat dinner at home, but instead go to diners every night.
The competing themes of intergenerational drift and the indivisibility of familial bonds are more tangibly confirmed through long transcripts of interviews that are counterposed against the narrative proper--interviews which are so real it's hard to believe they aren't based on actual dialogs Simpson conducted with family members.
It's incredible, by the end, this feeling of so many miles having been traversed despite how little of the book is actually spent on the road, and despite how impressionistically and poetically Simpson renders such enormous chunks of Ann's adolescence and schooling; Ann truly has come of age, and yet she's still so young.
And even as she leaves her mother behind, we know: she'll never truly be free of her.
At first (and actually probably until about halfway through the book) I really liked it.
But I just finished the book, and here I am, still waiting.
I understood that Adele lived in a complete fantasy world and was out of touch with any sort of reality - who thinks eating an ice cream cone for dinner every night or chateaubriand in a completely unfurnished house is normal?
Anyway I was ready for the book to end, and I think it probably should have ended about 200 pages earlier.
It just felt the most interesting stories where mention in a one-off sentence or paragraph.
When I was done with the book I wished more was written about the other characters; Aunt Carol’s over sea adventures when she was young, Hal’s strong belief that he would become a millionaire with just one right business plan, or how their neighbors, schoolmate, bosses, ex-lovers truly saw them.
Sadly the 2 main characters in the book where not the most interesting or the ones I wanted to learn more about.
This book has two major strikes against it: the fact that it was later made into a movie starring Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman, and the fact that there is neither plot not conclusion.
But I loved a lot of the other voices in the book, especially the sections that were told from the daughter's perspective as a child living with her unstable family.
And as I said, the writing could be really excellent--every 10 or so pages, the author would use a phrase that was just really fresh and memorable (describing conversations with her dad that went nowhere as "lighting single matches," etc.)

My favorite novel, right up there with "In Cold Blood" (but having nothing whatsoever in common except a very compelling and realistic narrative tone).Mona Simpson was included in the famous collection of short stories "Twenty Under Thirty," that's how I found her.Interesting fact, she is Steve Jobs biological sister, adopted in childhood into a different family from Jobs.The vast architectural and aesthetic sense of the novel is relative to what is known about Steve Jobs, a family trait it would seem.
I picked up this book from the library where I work. Simpson's prose is lovely but the book ended up feeling like a slog to get through. There's no real plot, and one of the main characters is so infuriating I just got sick of reading about her doing the same annoying, narcissistic things over and over again. I much preferred the few, short sections from the older women's perspective that evoked the Midwest of the past where small towns were actually thriving and people appreciated the quiet landscape where they lived.
It was this single book, read as a young girl and my early 20's about a half dozen times, that helped me see that I wasn't alone in the madness. It gave me hope. Mona Simpson sparked a life long love of memoir reading, and more recently, the act of putting ink on paper. To this day, when asked what's my favorite book, I say 'Anywhere But Here'. I'll have to re-read it to see if my perspective has changed, and even if it has, I'll remain eternally grateful for it.
Jumps around a lot with out giving context so what is past and what is future seem blurred. But if the idea is just to see into life without the need for a chronological storyline it is a slice of life story. Really a child's persepctive that accepts the world without judging it as good or bad except in how you feel about yourself in the moment.
This book is incredible. I read a lot of it twice over, I loved the language and character development that much. A beautiful study of human relationships, so evocative in its rendering of time, place and character.
"The thing about my mother and me is that when we get along we're just the same."This book hit a little too close to home. Details the relationship between a shy daughter and her (at most times) delusional mother. Wonderfully written.
Fragmented, tedious and just strange. Read to within 50 pages of the end then realized I had no interest to see if the story line ever came together.
As good as I remembered.
The New York Times Book Review said it was "Brilliant, funny, astonishing."I found it random, weird, and so astonishing at one part that I stopped wasting my time.
