https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/406186.Mara_Daughter_of_the_Nile
I had very fond memories of reading Mara years ago, and I was delighted and, frankly, relieved when my re-read lived up to my memories, which isn't always the case when I re-read favorite books from my teenage years.
Sheftu is my favorite kind of book hero, an intelligent, extremely capable man hiding behind the mask of a charming, lazy courtier in order to achieve a greater goal.
.Mara found Sheftu's manner the next morning just as gay, just as impersonal, and so much more convincing than her own that she was out of sorts before an hour had passed.
"Then the stars went out, for the bark of Ra, in fiery splendor, burst out of the East. Sunshine flooded the wide desert and the long, green valley of the Nile. The night was over; a new day has dawned for the land of Egypt." Generally, I do not reread books. I have a short attention span, I constantly seek novelty, and once a book or a film has been watched, even if I greatly enjoyed it, I will never reach for it again. There are only a few books that I enjoy rereading, Mara, Daughter of the N
There are only a few books that I enjoy rereading, Mara, Daughter of the Nile has been one I have reached for repeatedly since I first read it and fell in love with it as a 12-year old girl.
The mythology, the people, the history; while I have read many books within this setting, telling stories of such exalted characters as Cleopatra, Nefertiti, King Tutankhamen, this wee book remains my favorite in the sadly rare genre of Egyptian fiction.Mara is a slave, she was not always one, but that has been her life for as long as she can remember.
I read this book when I was, oh, maybe 7 or 8, and it was my favorite book for YEARS.
I re-read it countless times.
It was the only book from my childhood I brought with me to college.
It may have been, in large part, the reason my mom once bought me a t-shirt that said "Kathleen" in - wait for it -HIEROGLYPHICS.I have no idea if this is actually a good book or not.
I loved it so much as a kid that I couldn't possibly give an impartial opinion even now.Oh, um, that t-shirt thing was in sixth grade, not college.
It’s like they put every bit of sexual tension and wrapped it up in that one kiss.
And like an old movie, the book moved a little bit slower.
I think the writing is lovely though.I liked the characters, especially Mara and Inanni and their friendship.I have to commend Eloise Jarvis McGraw for her excellent research and the descriptive way she brings ancient Egypt to life.
McGraw adds all these lovely details, which made me think of old Egyptian art and artifacts.
In fact, I felt a little like Mara was helping the wrong side, because let’s face it, Hatshepsut was awesome.
I adored this book when I first read it at age 10, and still love it 20 years later.
I cannot recommend it highly enough to young lady readers who have any interest at all in Ancient Egypt.
Mara is a slave girl sold to become a spy who ends up embroiled in a plot to overthrow the (female) Pharaoh Hatshepsut.
McGraw's attention to detail and knowledge of the time are impeccable, her characters are alive and engaging, there's a nice little romance, plenty of drama and suffering for the cause, and Mara is spunky in a very modern vampire slayer kind of way.
Well ahead of it's time.
I'll not write a long review since others have already said everything there is to be said, but I will say that I can't believe how beautiful this was.
Five Stars easy, it was a million times better than my last book.Mara was a delight, she was a sweet little trickster who didn't know which people to side with.
This book was so much better than I'd thought it would be, I was afraid it would have a modern feel to it, but instead, I felt that I was right next to Mara, doing my utmost to outwit them all.
I think this book is timeless.Did I say it was beautiful?
It is beautiful.
I loved this in junior high and dug it out again for a "light" read -- it's actually more intense than I remembered, but still fun.
For being written in 1953, Mara is a surprisingly strong female character, a slave-turned-spy for two opposing masters.
It's irritating that Hatshepsut has been turned into the evil villainess, and the "fettered king" whose revolution is being planned isn't described as, ahem, her half-brother and husband (who didn't need a revolution), so it's easier just to read the story as entirely made up.
Definitely recommended, even if one of the last lines in the story is "Oh, Amon!
Have you found the writings favorable?'"Sheftu, with a casual smile that was yet guarded, replied, "Are those his words, or yours?""By the Feather of Truth, I only quoted them exactly.""From your thoughts, no doubt."Ai, he knows, but I will not let him best me, thought Mara.
"Is this book to you so slight compared to others you have had before?""Nay, not in the least!"Mara raised her brows slightly.
Other than his eyes, which glittered with amusement, the careless smile that returned to Sheftu's face did not tell he knew he had been neatly trapped.
He fingered the lotus in Mara's hair.
Aaaaaah. Sheftu! ❤ One of the very *few* school assigned books from Middle School that I remember loving so much and completely wrapped up in because of the setting and beautiful love story. I clearly had a thing for Romance even then. lol
Aaaaaah. Sheftu! ❤️ One of the very *few* school assigned books from Middle School that I remember loving so much and completely wrapped up in because of the setting and beautiful love story. I clearly had a thing for Romance even then. lol
One of the first books I ever truly loved, it gets better every time you read it.A very sweet, complicated story about Hatshepsut's reign and ultimate overthrow.
She's desperate for good luck, her life has been the "grab it before somebody else does" and she realizes throughout the book that sometimes you don't have to.
It's one of the best books I've ever read and that will never change, even though the review might (because it's honestly not a good review if you've read the story - Mara deserves a better review but I suck at writing reviews so...oh well).
This is historical fiction, right?
That said-- truth, or lack there of, does not take away from this story.
Mara encounters many people during her adventures, and I find them all quite intriguing.
What made them to intriguing to me was how perspective switched between them all.
We really got to understand this plot as it unfolded from many sides.
Now, all those sides happened to be the "winning" side, but that's okay.
Either way, it really brought depth to the story.
However, when we see Mara from another perspective-- we learn this isn't 100% the truth.
Yes, smart.
I loved the way McGraw combined the little details of clothing, eye paint, gods, food, and nobility.
In the midst of my love for countless English/Irish/Scottish tales, having something so gripping set in a very different country like Egypt brought new zest and enchantment to the tale.In reading K.M. Weiland's Structuring Your Novel over the weekend, I constantly remembered Mara, and was pleased by how classy the author's plotting was.
Two things that shine clear are patriotism and deep sacrifice for the well-being of Egypt.For readers who like to look out for romance, Mara contains a significant amount.
2018 ReviewStill one of my favorite historical fiction novels.
When a mysterious stranger buys her and offers freedom in exchange for information about a band of rebels, she determines nothing must stand in her way...But life has a way of playing tricks, as Mara discovers herself solicited and serving the very rebels she set out destroy.
Things only get more complicated when she finds herself falling in love with man she must destroy to suceed...Mara Daughter of the Nile is a terrific historical novel set in Egypt, filled with political intrigue, danger, double agents, and romance.
Its my fifth favorite book =D
This was great fun and a smooth, easy read--in fact I fairly tore through this one and could not wait to find out what happened.McGraw knows how to keep the plot moving and her heroine, Mara the slave girl, is spunky, intelligent and conniving enough to be plausible in her new role as a double agent in the royal court.
No one knows what ancient Egyptian sounded like, but McGraw mixes in enough likely phrases to make the dialog quite believable.
When a messenger from Queen Hatshepsut purchases Mara and makes her an offer to spy and act the part of a royal interpreter, our heroine sees her chance.But then Sheftu, a scribe who is not a scribe, decides he has a hold over her as well and hires her to spy for the King Thutmos III instead.
Of course, she could sell out Sheftu to the Queen and save her own hide.But what will happen to Egypt if she does?Mara, Daughter of the Nile has EVERYTHING, in my opinion, that makes great historical fiction.
I am embarrassed to admit how much I love this book.
Hard to believe this was first published in 1953! That alone deserves a round of applause for a YA historical standing the test of time so well. Overall, just a lack of book chemistry.
Great story!
Engaging heroine, smart and plucky without being overly sassy and a hero I am absolutely in love with.
I love a ruthless, driven, obsessed man that DOES NOT want to be distracted by a pretty girl.
There's just something so sweet about watching the poor guy struggle with his feelings.
The setting was superb, and since I haven't read a lot of Egyptian anything it was new and refreshing.
The secondary characters were fleshed out, interesting and unique.
The plot was right up my alley, because I love political intrigue, and there was plenty of that evident here.
I read this book at 27 years old when a friend told me this was her favorite childhood book.
Having just read it, I can safely say MY CHILDHOOD SELF MISSED OUT ON SOMETHING AMAZING.
This is definitely a book I will cherish and pass down to my children.
I loved it having read it as an adult, and I can only imagine how much I would have loved it as a child.
I miss quality literature like this!
McGraw is a masterful storyteller, and I will be on the lookout for some of her other books.
This was an awesome book. Not sure what I was expecting but this exceeded..by a lot. And was it really my fault that I was imagining the awesome river boat father figure guy that, sadly, I can't remember the name of, as Sam Axe? I think not.Highly recommended to all.
I still love it now, but that's because there's a little tween girl still living inside of me--a little tween girl who would have been frightened and thrilled by the action and more than a little intrigued by the dashing hero, Sheftu.
There are only a very few flaws I noticed, and I typically mention any flaws I saw in a review, so here goes..1: The Princess Inanni of Canaan is a good character in herself, but the incessant snide commentary on her weight and the weight of her ladies-in-waiting makes the book seem dated and the heroine, Mara, unkind.
I've yet to find a perfect book, so Mara still gets 5 stars.
I got see a world ablaze with ambition, hope and desperation.Pros:The characters are  extremely clever.
I love clever characters.
I think this book perfectly illustrates and refutes that concept.The story flows well, never resting too long in one spot.The setting.
Talk about two characters with dynamite personalities!
Or even worse, when a character starts out strong-willed and spirited but they fall in love and turn into a sappy mess.
Sheftu was equally clever and I find nothing so satisfying as witnessing two characters match wits.Cons:I would say that it is too short, but that's not true.
Mara, Daughter of the Nile was a superb novel.
I was surprised and delighted by the depth of the story, the crazy awesomeness of the plot, and...
Of course, this historical depth includes mentions of gods and goddesses, and also a slightly creepy scene down in the tombs of Egypt's dead kings.
That I could have done without.But yes, the overall story was just very well done.
:)Mara, who starts out as a thoroughly rebellious slave, was quite proud at times.
-Which Mara, Daughter of the Nile obviously doesn't have.
But I can certainly appreciate it as a very good historical read, and just very good story-writing overall!
I think this was the first book that turned me on to historical fiction. I checked it out over and over.
I first read this book...
well, never mind how long it's been.
Out of curiosity, I picked it up and started to re-read it.
I quickly found myself sucked into the story again.
The world-building is exceptional.
The author doesn't drown the reader in detail, but everything comes across as authentic.
She must have done an incredible amount of research.
The characters come to life on the page.
There is a lot of suspense, as the heroine Mara has to spin more and more webs of intrigue trying not to get killed.
Well, when my book group chose a YA historical fiction novel set in ancient Egypt written in 1953 I had really, really low expectations.
But it was a fun read!
It has a Disney-princess-esque heroine, spunky and beautiful and smart, who gets caught up in a web of political intrigue.
The Egyptian stuff wasn't nearly as hokie as I expected, although they are inside a pyramid at one point.
Anyway, it seems from Goodreads reviews that 10-12 year old girls are prone to fall in love with this book and think fondly of it throughout their lives, and they certainly could do worse.
This was...this had been...one of the greatest books of all time.
Great twisting, nail-biting suspense, and a beautiful ending (as was the SPOILER!!!
torture scene.
OK, so people may think me weird for finding torture scenes beautiful, but it was really well-written).
The romance is of the best kind - not too much, and yet almost not enough to satisfy the reader, but to keep them guessing and hoping the characters will get together in the end and live happily ever after.
:) There is much deceit, treachery, and betrayal...
and the mistakes of betrayal.
One of the best...
Very few and far between do I rate a book five stars...and Holy COW!!! This one was five star material! It was soooo exciting at every single moment! Never a bored moment! Everything goes deliciously right but then wrong in this book! It was like two Eugenides in one book! Yet Mara and Sheftu were also different! I can't say anything to do this book justice, I just hope that everyone reads this masterpiece!(Also very cleverly done was the mention of the golden bee necklace as an Easter egg from the Golden Goblet)
I find this the most underrated historical fiction ever! I read this in my tweens for school and I loved it. Spies, romance, action, everything a 13 year old me could want. (I went through a major spy phase)
I have a feeling this may end up being re-read in the future ;)
