https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1248179.The_Appeal
This book has made me angrier than any I've read in years.Okay, first off --what is with the absolutely horrid neon orange color of the jacket back?
Each time I reached for this book my eyes felt violated.*SPOILER ALERT* If you haven't read it yet, stop reading now...Second, well, let's just say it: the ending was even more offensive than the neon orange jacket back.
The book was well-written, compelling (and yes, possibly completely undeserving of that one-star rating up above), and I understand what Grisham was trying to do, but I hate what he did.
Made me forget all the previously compelling stuff and just hate the book completely.
This did connect the dots for me in a way.I wonder if John Grisham left the legal profession because he saw too much rorting – dubious Judges too respecting of their own pockets and big business and none for the ‘little people’?!There was waaaay too much politics in this one for me.
Most of the unscrupulous Judges, ‘pay-offers’, all round bad guys, of which there were too many, ended up swimming into each other and it was a bit lost on me.
Loved others of Mr Grisham, not this one.
By the end of this novel, I hoped someone would come by and pour salt on my wounds. Seriously. At least then I would feel something.After I found out I passed the bar exam over twenty years ago--{{with slithering colours}}-- my wife actually gave me this t-shirt as a gift.I never wore it, of course. I found it a couple of weeks back and gave it to my son to do something with it for Halloween up at his university. Be an extra-creepy lawyer I guess.
I'd like to appeal the ending to this shitty book.
John Grisham's books have been getting steadily worse, ever since the Painted House (another lame book).
What happened to the excellent author that produced such books as The Client, The Pelican Brief, The Street Lawyer, and Runaway Jury?
I keep reading his new books, hoping he'll come back, but so far, no luck.This is his worst in a long line of bad books.
Stay away from this one, as well as his other latest, The Innocent Man. They are boring, long, and a chore to get through.
Plus, the Appeal has THE WORST ending, of any book, ever.
Don't read it.
lately though he has a good enough following that he has decided that he is going to write whatever the heck he wants because he knows that people will buy and read his books anyway.
He doesn't stick with these characters really, he jumps each chapter to talk about another set of people and there really isn't a main character.He moves from the main story and ends up on a soapbox about the state supreme court and getting someone elected onto that court and how the liberals are all bought/elected /controlled by trial lawyers who want big verdicts.
This is the fourth Grisham book that I have read lately, The Litigators, The Whistler, Rogue Lawyer, and The Appeal. So far, I like all of his books. They are shockingly realistic. Corruptions within American legal system used to be my blind spot prior to this reading experience. Not anymore, thanks to Grisham's novels. I like this book and recommend it to all who want to learn about American politics and legal system.
I simply find that, whenever he stays away from his tendency toward sentimentalism, Grisham can conjure up images of the South of not so long ago with a vividness reminiscent of Faulkner and blend those images with stark, insightful looks at the humanity we see everywhere.I could feel the heat and humidity as I read these pages (though perhaps it was because I was exercising as I read) and practically itched all over from his frightening depiction of the pollution in the region.
For once this is not a courtroom thriller, there are courtrooms but not many.This book is more about the pursuit of power, greed and corruption.
The greed and corruption of the judiciary.
The greed and corruption of politicians.
In the small community where the dumping has occurred people are dying in unprecedented numbers of cancer.
This sounds great for the widow and the community but the company is going to appeal.The length the company goes to to win their appeal is astonishing.
Winning the appeal is all that matters.I found this book compulsive and disturbing.
As I began reading this book, I was very worried that it sounded too familiar.
It reminded me of "Law & Order" episodes that are "ripped from the headlines." Whenever I hear that, I think, come on, can't you guys think of anything new?
While the trial portion may have been "ripped from the headlines," the remainder of the plot, and the basic premise for the book were interesting and really captured my attention.
So much so, that after finishing the last page, I decided that I didn't like the book at all and it was a complete waste of my time!
The story explores what might happen if a supreme court judge just happened to be elected by a group hired by a man with money - billions of dollars, to be exact - and an agenda for winning a particular case.I do not want to spoil the ending, and perhaps it is true that Grisham is making a political statement.
Instead of decrying mass tort litigation involving large corporations (product manufacturers, pharmaceutical companies and the like), Grisham delves into the one on one cases where such companies should be held liable for polluting the water and creating dangerous products in cases involving just one plaintiff.
وإذا كنت قارئا متطرفا فستُتبع مراجعتك بثلاث لعنات على راس الناشر الاولى : لتوقف جرير عن ترجمة الروايات التي تضعها نيويورك تايمز على القمة واكتفائها بسخافات كتب تطوير الذات الثانية : لعدم ذكر اسم المترجم الرائع السلس والبسيط والمؤدب بالطبع الذي اكتفى بمفردات سحقت وتبا وعليه اللعنه الثالثة : لعدم وجود موقع او مطبوعة بها بقية ما نشرته جرير ايام العز لكي نتابعهولاني كما أسلفت من النوع الاول فلن أقول شيئا للناشر سوى جزيل الشكر على تقديمهم لهذه الرائعة للمكتبة العربية
don't read this piece of shit. what the hell grisham?, you're usually so solid.
Benjamin won the election, and three years later, when Massey's appeal reached the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia, Caperton's lawyers asked him to recuse himself because of Blankenship's financial support.
He wrote in an opinion, "I believe John Grisham got it right when he said that he simply had to read The Charleston Gazette to get an idea for his next novel."[1]In June 2009, the United States Supreme Court ruled that Justice Benjamin should have recused himself in Caperton v.
Massey, sending the case back to the West Virginia Supreme Court.
Not that the bad guy has to lose and the good guy has to win every time, but the characters are skewed and distorted so much to the extreme that everything is black and white, not the gray that is the real world, and STILL the bad guy comes out on top.One is left to believe that there is no real justice, that our political system leaves zero opportunity for the common man to be heard or represented, and that all persons wealthy are superficial and power hungry.Sorry, but that's not the real world.
Nor does it make good fiction.
Make no mistake - this book was written to make a political statement.According to Grisham, conservative judges are bought and paid for by evil "big business", never saw a trial verdict for the underrepresented and oppressed victim that they didn't want to overturn, and always rule in favor of evil "big business" even where the liability is clear-cut.
With current make-up of state's supreme court generally voting 5-4 in favor of plaintiffs with righteous claims (the 4 being big-business-loving evil conservatives who hate victims), big business devises plan to replace a moderate state supreme court justice up for re-election with a conservative.
or will the slick and slimy bosses of Krane live to wreak havoc in another unsuspecting community?What I really like about Grisham's books is that he always manages to expose the selfish hearts of his characters.
I recently read a short book by Grisham all about a special treatment for brain tumours and I know he's involved in a lot of charity work, so he could advocate passionately on one side or the other should he choose to do so.This isn't his best novel.
I tend to rate them according to those I have already read, if that makes sense: a sort of Grisham rating.
A candid look into the seedy underbelly of campaign finance in the U.S. It's no secret that in this country, money and politics walk hand in hand, with Big Business barons leveraging their own interests against those of the people and, at times, basic procedural justice.
This includes the nine state supreme court justices.
The case is appealed to the state supreme court.
Faced with his corporate empire going belly up, the CEO hires a lobbying group to handpick a candidate-cum-ideological ally and funnels dark money to finance him into the justiceship, where said candidate is expected to further the interests of his benefactors.
I've been thinking I wanted to read a good court-room drama for a while now and I remembered that John Grisham had written a few pretty good ones...so I gave this one a shot.
A nice compelling build-up was well-written and fairly absorbing and to be honest I learned a lot about state Supreme Courts and how the appellate process works.
While I understand and even appreciate the author’s point, the way he expresses it in the form of this novel makes for a horrible reading experience.
As usual, I like John Grisham's style of writing; crisp, fast-flowing and gripping.
I also get to know a lot of new words that I have never heard of before.
I get to know a lot of jargon from the law world.
I gave it 4 stars because of what John is trying to reveal in this book.
It just is pure evil.What amazed me even more is that all this in fact is done in our day and age.If I was giving the rating for how the book ended, I'd give it a zero.
I didn't like the end.

Excellent...tells you everything wrong in politics today...because as long as Private donations are allowed to go toward campaigns and bribes paid to those elected to vote the way a Corporate company wants them to vote, corruption will be rampant,and our democracy will not be a true democracy anymore.The right wing mentality will continue to destroy the principles of the United States Constitution,and take away our true freedoms.......quite the book...if you can handle the truth.
It's the story of a chemical company that dumped toxic waste in the ground, which contaminated the drinking water and caused massive amounts of cancer and killed lots and lots of people.
The book goes on for 200 pages explaining a campaign to replace a judge so that when the case gets appealed to the MS supreme court, the verdict will get overturned and the chemical co.
Then, since it's a work of fiction, I expected a happy ending.
The new judge gets instated, he overturns the verdict, and the book is over.
I usually enjoy Grisham's books.
A handful of his books I thought were great, most recently The Testament and The Innocent Man. I didn't like The Appeal for one reason.
That's what we do as readers, we get behind the story, the characters, the good guys.
In less plot driven, more character-driver dramatic "literature" I actually EXPECT poor redeeming values, sad tales.
However, when I pick up a Grisham book I expect not only to be highly entertained but taken care of emotionally.
But that's Grisham gets to do, whatever he wants.
Call it what you want, people like happy endings.
Harder to persevere with this one where his other books are smoother. Could not gel with the characters. Although at times I was looking forward to the outcome, I was not as riveted as I could have been. Ending was terrible. Makes me think I have wasted time on this book when I could have been reading something else.
Grisham is one of the first authors I ever remember reading when I was a kid, when I was absolutely enthralled and fascinated by his stories.
I haven't read a book of his in a long time, but I was delighted to see that I still like him just as much.
He is a good writer and his stories, focalized through the legal lens that he dons for all of them (seeing as he was a lawyer) are very well paced, clearly written and highly enjoyable.
For those who want a solid legal thriller, this book here would be a good choice.
However, when I got into the book, I felt as if I'd made a bad choice with today's current political climate.In a small Mississippi town, a jury returned a shocking verdict against a chemical company accused of dumping toxic waste into the county water supply causing the worst "cancer cluster" in history.
The company appeals the verdict to the Mississippi Supreme Court where 9 justices will approve the verdict or reverse it.This is were all the "fun" begins.
He hires a behind the scene man to manipulate the election of a justice on the Supreme Court in Mississippi.
I admit, I like a lot of Grisham's novels; I especially like them when spending long hours on an airplane, as I did recently. I found this book to be very disturbing; it has definitely affected the way I will view future election campaigns for judges. I also liked how his Christian characters were reflective of the current Christian culture, even though they bothered me at times because of that. The ending surprised me, as it took some surprising turns the last 60 or so pages.
My favourite of all John Grisham's books - the quest for social justice, the plot and characters came alive.
El punto principal radica en las elecciones para la renovación de tres asientos en el Tribunal Supremo (Mississippi, estado en el cual se desarrolla la acción, elige a los miembros de dicho tribunal en elecciones directas - voto popular -), cuando los responsables de la empresa afectada perciben que necesitan sacar a uno de los miembros para inclinar la balanza a su favor en el recurso pendiente contra la sentencia dictada en contra suya, buscan a una persona maleable y manejable y lo presentan como candidato a Magistrado del Tribunal Supremo, empezando a exponer las debilidades de la persona de la cual pretenden deshacerse.
