https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22673.A_New_Guide_to_Rational_Living
برای من خیلی راهگشا بود؛ چون چیزایی رو مطرح کرده که مدت ها رو مغزم رژه میرفت.
ولی نه اینکه آدم غرقش بشه و افسردگی بگیره و اینا.
ولی حس کردم خیلی روی این لذت گرایی مانور داده.
خوبی ـش این بود که خیلی از چیزایی که مطرح میکرد، چیزایی بود که تو ذهنم میچرخید و خودمم باهاش درگیر بودم و به بعضی راهکارهاش رسیده بودم.
اینکه آدم بتونه در هر شرایطی روحیه شو حفظ کنه و شاد باقی بمونه.
چون با خودش سلامتی و موفقیت و چیزای دیگه هم میاره.شاد باشید.

این کتاب رو به عنوان کتاب مکمل روان درمانی توی دوره ای خوندم که پیش روانشناس می رفتم.
توی یکی از بحرانی ترین شرایط زندگیم کمکم کرد و بهم فهموند که چه باورهای غلط و درستی توی ذهنم ساختم.
به علاوه اینکه اول کتاب مقدمه ای بود که بهم یاد داد به روانشناسم وابسته نشم و خودم حل مسئله رو یاد بگیرم.
در کل کتاب خیلی خیلی مفیدی بود که به نظرم هر کسی این کتاب یا کتاب مشابهش رو برای شناخت بیشتر خودش باید بخونه.این از اون کتاب هاییه که توی دسته کتاب های خودکاوی قرار می گیره و برای قدم زدن توی دنیای درون مناسبه.
The 3rd addition has 23 chapters.This book is the first book the great psychologist Albert Ellis wrote on Rational Emotive Behavioral Therapy ( REBT - later known as "cognitive therapy").
I also think it is one of the best.REBT is built on the idea that our thoughts cause our emotions and influence our behaviors.
To get a modern view of the concepts that Dr. Ellis considered to be the most important I would recommend starting the book at chapter 20, going to the end and then starting from the beginning.
Seriously, how many therapists out there could benefit from this upfront and directive, no - bull approach to life?
This is the most effective book for someone who wants to be honest with themselves, and is motivated to change their self-deprecating behaviors.
I notice that many of the comments are either love or hate with this book naturally.
Those of you who hate it could serve to take a good look at why they didn't like it.
The truth is difficult to face, but if you are ready to look at it, this is the book for you.
The central idea of REBT - as I've understood it - is to discover one's self-defeating Irrational Beliefs (IBs), actively and forcefully challenge them and ultimately replace them with healthy Rational Philosophies.
The book outlines the most common IBs and provides cognitive, emotive and behavioral methods to challenge them.
The authors also refer to these kinds of absolutistic demands as "Musturbatory Beliefs".Some of the cognitive, emotive and behavioral tools described in the book: (1) REBT self-help forms for disputing IBs (2) Shame-attacking exercises (3) Rational Emotive Imagery (4) Forceful Rational Self-statements (5) Role-playing and reverse role playing etc.
Ellis' and Harper's classic book about the connection between thoughts and emotions - you got to credit those two professors of psychology for not serving their readers any "love yourself" or "attain enduring happiness" BS, because they chose to kick people's butts instead. I wouldn't claim that it's particularly well written, but it makes compelling arguments (which is clearly the main point here) that still prove to be highly influential in the scientific field.
A new guide to rational living, Albert Ellisعنوان: زندگی عاقلانه؛ نویسنده: آلبرت الیس؛ مترجم: مهرداد فیروزبخت؛ تهران، رشد، 1377، در 290 ص؛ شابک: 9646115497؛ چاپ ششم: 1388؛ موضوع: رفتار درمانی قرن 20 معنوان: چگونه منطقی زندگی کنیم؛ نویسنده: آلبرت الیس؛ مترجم: نوشین ریشهری؛ تهران، نسل نواندیش، 1381، در 444 ص؛ شابک: 9646714471؛ چاپ سوم: 1388؛ موضوع: رفتار درمانی قرن 20 م
‎A new guide to rational living, Albert Ellisعنوان: زندگی عاقلانه؛ نویسنده: آلبرت الیس؛ مترجم: مهرداد فیروزبخت؛ تهران، رشد، 1377، در 290 ص؛ شابک: 9646115497؛ چاپ ششم: 1388؛ موضوع: رفتار درمانی قرن 20 معنوان: چگونه منطقی زندگی کنیم؛ نویسنده: آلبرت الیس؛ مترجم: نوشین ریشهری؛ تهران، نسل نواندیش، 1381، در 444 ص؛ شابک: 9646714471؛ چاپ سوم: 1388؛ موضوع: رفتار درمانی قرن 20 م
Especially if you are not familiar with cognitive-behavioral therapy approaches, this can be a very useful book for individuals wishing to experience more joy and happiness by experiencing less (unnecessary) upset feelings.
A former president of the American Psychological Association, Albert Ellis created these techniques to help him with his own inadequacies.
Interestingly enough, at a time when psychology was still heavily influenced by the psychoanalytical tradition, Albert Ellis created his Rational Emotive Behavioral Therapy, in part, through the inspiration of Stoic philosophers and Buddhism.
Before this book, I had a strained relationship with my mother, but after reading the essay titled, "Overcoming the Influences of the Past," I realized that I was holding my mother to standards that were impractical, and living with pain that would have only ever healed if reality somehow managed to redesign the past.
I was able to learn that Anxiety is the tool that tries to help you survive, but when it gets out of hand it often prolongs the individual's suffering.
Anxiety's second pain is its ability to shackle an individual into a life that is filled with reduced satisfaction due to an inability to challenge these beliefs and test these horrors.
A person who has delusional, self destructive thoughts should think rationally to resolve his emotional issues. Is this not a chicken and egg problem? The person was having trouble thinking rationally and I believe therefore he visited the therapist, now the therapist says, in order to resolve your problem think rationally. It's like a person with weight issue going to the gym and instructor says, "You know what, in order to be thin, you will have to lose fat." Yes, yes, but how. This how is never fully answered in the book. So, it didn't work for me.
Still, if you want to learn about the subject from a book that doesn't sugar coat anything it might be a good option.Cons: 1) The author is arrogant, condescending and judgmental.
But this would probably be very effective as an adjunct to other, likely more physiological, approaches.Pros: 1) This is one of the best books out there to explain the exact "how-tos" of overcoming irrational fears and emotions via cognitive behavioral methods.
It also challenges the "...and I can't stand it if someone doesn't like me" part that is the real reason so many of us get stuck worrying or feeling bad about situations.3) The book is repetitious.
There are so many self-defeating things we do that we rarely stop to think about.
And there are so many excuses or rationalizations (we, of course, would call them reasons) for the unhealthy self-defeating things we do, but Ellis isn't buying them.
Ellis calls us out on such things, and he does so with practical explanations that make sense.
But "torture" or "I can't stand it." No. He would say, "Nothing is awful." And through all the rock-solid advice he gives you really get a sense that Ellis is a person who really cares about people.
And this is no self-help book of the moment.
I just read one of Edward de Bono's books which made me feel like I had a real effective box of tools to approach creative thinking with, and this book has done the same thing for approaching dysfunctional emotions and neuroses.
I'm always skeptical with self-help type books, because sounding great doesn't mean something will actually be effective, but there seems to be pretty solid scientific support from various studies to back up these techniques, and I've already started making them a part of my life.
(I read a later updated edition of the book (3rd edition) called 'a guide to rational living', which doesn't seem to be listed on goodreads)
It reads fluidly, has awesome stories and does not have the repetitive and unnecessary propaganda that he makes of himself, the other books he wrote and his psychotherapy.
If you want to use the advices of this book as a self-therapy its important to re-read it periodically because the advices are so easy to forget and we tend to come back to our old thinking habits.
Another good option is search the internet for the list of "REBT's Irrational Beliefs" and read it every day.
So maybe if you love this book as I did, you will also like to read about stoicism.
A book that is at times annoying and at other times profound. Ellis and Harper make a pretty convincing case for the benefits of adopting a more rational approach to life. My main gripe with the book is the depiction of the authors' clients; they just didn't sound like real people to me. Perhaps the authors were creating characters who were combinations of various clients throughout the years. That is a weakness, but it really only amounts to a minor distraction. The message they deliver is an important one that deserves to be heard and seriously considered.
One of the most powerful books I have ever read. Yes, it's a 'self-help' book, but it is far from your typical lightweight 'how-I-fixed-everything-with-positive-thinking' fare. This is a confronting and at time savage intellectual treatise driven by Ellis' powerful mind. With a unique writing style the arguments are superbly structured; methodically dismantling and identifying the origins of anger, depression, anxiety etc... and empowering the reader to reassemble his belief system to create a more rational happy present. Brilliant.
A Guide to Rational Living is a classic self-help manual and introduction to rational emotive therapy. The style of the book is somewhat rambling and "story telling," and some of the information is now a bit out of date, but the list of irrational ideas and the Disputing Irrational Beliefs activity are still very valuable.
I read this book for an undergrad paper on the REBT (rational emotive behavioral therapy)but loved it so much and was able to incorporate so much of it into my own life. Even though I am a therapist, I must admit that this is a must read for people who are extremely self-aware and could save them the money of therapy.
I've wanted to read this "classic" of self help for a while, and its as good an intro to cognitive behavioral therapy as anything out there. Lucid and helpful, but too many tales of "patients" (you can easily skim the ones you don't relate to). It's certainly easier said than done, but disputing your irrational beliefs, substituting rational ones, never did anyone any harm....
Previše stvari koje tjeraju na razmišljanje, preispitivanje svojih postupaka, čak iako su u cilju napredovanja.
از طراحی جلد و اسم عامیانه کتاب که بگذریم، نگرش جالبی رو مطرح و ترویج میکنه. نویسندگان کتاب معتقدن چیزی که ما رو ناراحت میکنه و از مسیر اهدافمون دور میکنه نه اتفاقاتیه که برای ما میفته بلکه نوع نگاه ما به اون اتفاقاته و حرف هایی که راجع به اونها به خودمون میزنیم. درواقع کتاب به خوانندش کمک میکنه تا باورهای به اصطلاح نامعقول خودش رو پیدا کنه و اونا رو با باورهای معقول و منطقی جایگزین کنه.
There should be classes taught, starting elementary school, on how to think, problem solve, and act rationally.
So much of what passes as thought and action in this world is simply over-emotionalized reactions.
I have read this book twice now.
It has a dry, to the point tone.
It also makes a lot of sense.
The problem with sense is that people are emotional and hesitant to change, and sense can be hard to practice.
This is a good primer on rational thought, and one I will continue to read until my emotionally-charged brain "gets it" and learns to practice the message.
I think there is some great information in this book, but quite frankly I just can't stand the writing style. Most of the chapters are full of therapy session conversations one of the authors, with other tidbits of information interspersed. There are very few subheadings. A lot of people seem to like Ellis' writing-style though so perhaps it's just me.
اوه!یه کتاب فوق العاده ی خودیاری در زمینه روانشناسی که به هر بزرگسالی که منطقی و عاقلانه نمیتونه فکر کنه، پیشنهاد می کنم!این کتاب می آموزد در حین اینکه عاقلانه به مسایل می پردازی، به همان اندازه هم احساسی باشی!در ضمن این کتاب توسط یکی از بزرگان روانشناسی به نام آلبرت الیس نوشته شده...
This is one I read and re-read a lot ... the things this book teaches will change your perspective on life and help you in many ways. Whenever I finish this book I start over again ... but I always read three to five books at a time anyway ...
A matter-of-fact, clear explanation of how thoughts influence moods, emotions, and decisions. Terrific resource for people with an analytical bent who want to have more influence over their choices and mental states.
You can change the way your brain thinks. Takes some work and serious introspection, but if you do, this book will make your life better.
A fascinating look at the almost inevitable irrationalities that we carry with us each day...
and a profound solution to this problem that has the capability to reduce almost all forms of stress and depression in our lives.
It's unfortunately still possible to feel sad, but as Ellis argues, also possible to not have that sadness dictate your life in a negative way.
We are fallible humans who often needlessly sabotage ourselves in the most ludicrous ways.
Highly recommended for everyone, it's almost impossible to not suddenly begin to think in an advantageous way for yourself, day after day, after reading this.
But rational emotive behavioral therapy (REBT) by Albert Ellis provides insight into how we form ideas/beliefs about ourself and others, and proposes changing those beliefs to overcome personal conflicts.REBT assumes that people act rationally, though we may have irrational thoughts along the way.
This is one of the laws of economics: people act rationally.
If we were satisfied in our current state of being, then we wouldn’t act.
By understanding more about our current state of being through faith, economics, and REBT, we can improve our actions and interactions with others to be more prosperous.
