https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30165203-american-gods
One fiction supplanted the other, only this time I already knew I was working with stories.
Some of this fiction I had read many times, not understanding why the stories resonated so strongly within me, just knowing that I was compelled to return to those worlds, over and over.
Others were stories I read during the time surrounding my breakaway, and shortly thereafter.*American Gods made me observe and think differently.
During the time I was reading American Gods, it was this which rocked me – I was doing the same thing – choosing and keeping and killing my own Gods, my own mythologies.
Shadow is paid by Wednesday to be an errand boy while he travels America trying to rally his troops in preparation for a war between The old Gods, and the new Gods (media and money) I guess it's my own fault.
Of course that's not the books fault, but I was just expecting to like this book much more than I did.
I could appreciate the great writing and originality, however, so I couldn't give it below three stars.Three stars it is folks, but as most of you know this book is loved by (almost) all, so of course I encourage everyone who is interested in this book already to read it, and form your own opinions.
Anybody who tells you that the book is about old and new gods, or about a man named Shadow, or about coin tricks, or about having one's head smashed in for losing a game of checkers, is selling you a line, because those are just details, not the story itself.Much like any Neil Gaiman story, the devil is in the details, and you just have to resolve yourself to coming along for the ride or you'll miss it.
It's not one story, or two, it's many, and it's all complete...and you have to just read it, and enjoy it, and accept it.
I read the following section of the book nodding to myself, thinking, "Yup, that's exactly what it's like." Then I had another thought: "I bet this comes from that really bad cold snap we had here in Wisconsin about six years ago." It was pretty cool for me, being able to guess where a this piece of this book got its start....
The main character, Shadow, has just come to a small Wisconsin town, and he decides to walk into town to buy some warmer clothes and groceries.
He set off south, heading for the bridge.Soon he began to cough, a dry, thin cough, as the bitterly cold air touched his lungs.
You HAVE TO READ GAIMAN!"Well, I've read Gaiman now.Hi Gaiman!Bye Gaiman!Let me quote:"American Gods is Neil Gaiman's best and most ambitious novel yet, a scary, strange, and hallucinogenic road-trip story wrapped around a deep examination of the American spirit."I agree with everything but the beginning and the end.
It certainly isn't a book, or an author, you HAVE to read.I guess this, like that strange car race video game and Star Trek, will be parts of popular culture that will have to live without me.
Here’s the unique twist in American Gods that caused my political antenna to start twitching—every God (like say Odin) has an “avatar” of him or herself in each country.
It felt like a character trait on a chart that Gaiman could pull out every couple of chapters.
These chapters read in some ways like short stories inserted into the novel to expurgate some backstory, elucidate the God/worshipper premise in more detail, or delve into a side character.
Or like his storytelling just wasn’t good enough to tell the story without jumping out of it to explain it.
Gods die. And when they truly die they are unmourned and unremembered. Ideas are more difficult to kill than people, but they can be killed, in the end.  The Old Gods - brought over by immigrants. Wild, fantastical tales of elephant-headed men and trickster spiders. Of power and lust. Of fear and worship.The New Gods - created by the immigrants' descendants. Gods of money, media and might. Newly formed out of the hopes, dreams and desires of a people who've long since forgotten the Old Gods.  A
The Old Gods - brought over by immigrants.
Newly formed out of the hopes, dreams and desires of a people who've long since forgotten the Old Gods.
The New Gods, though young and foolhardy, know what they want and they want to 
And of course, because it's Neil Gaiman...there's a bunch of weird sex thrown in...because reasons.Literally, one of the Old Goddesses ate a man alive with her "womanhood".
Can't we have one book where everyone keeps their clothes on?And, if that wasn't confusing enough, in between the man-eating labia and sex-bandaids...we get absolutely adorable quotes like this:
In this unique love letter to the United States, Gaiman manages to celebrate its underground spiritual traditions, glory in the magnificence of its landmarks, landscapes, and bizarre tourist traps, and--most important--both mourn and venerate its pagan (often immigrant) gods in decline, battered and diminished though they may be by the shallowness and speed of our technological world.
The gods are indeed the best part of this very good book: degenerate and threadbare, yet still gods, capable of inspiring bptj allegiance and terror.
Gaiman loves not only fantasy, but also mystery and horror, and here he has constructed a book which fulfills the genre requirements of all.
I have tried two others (Good Omens: The Nice and Accurate Prophecies of Agnes Nutter, Witch and The Ocean at the End of the Lane) and one of those was okay (Omens) and one of them I couldn't stand (Ocean).I realize that my feelings on Gaiman and his books are contrary to popular opinion, but they are just not my cup of tea.
I think trying 3 of his books shows I have given him a good chance, but now it may be time to part ways.American Gods has its interesting storylines (that is why I have rounded up to 3 stars) but overall, I didn't see the point.
(A-) 81% | Very GoodNotes: The concept’s pretty brilliant, but the plot can be slow and plodding at times and the end doesn't live up to the build.
Do you ever read a book and become completely lost in the words and, ultimately, wonder what is actually happening?
The plot of this felt completely random, drawn out to the point of ridiculousness and the events, themselves, felt incoherent.
I have no idea why most of the events actually happened in here, and at this point, I can honestly say that just I don’t care anymore.
I understand the overall meaning of the book, but the way in which the author presented it was awful.
At points, this novel felt like a connected series of events that could barely be considered a plot.
4.5 stars
American Gods by Neil Gaiman, by the author’s own description, is a work that has inspired strong emotions and little in between – readers have either liked it a lot, or loathed it entirely.
It is on its surface a fantasy, rich in detail and fun to read, but also on the level of metaphor with complicated ideas and symbols thrown in, a novel that leaves the reader satisfied but still with a lot to consider once the book is put down.
Like almost all great works, putting the book down is not an easy thing, and difficult to admit that the story is over.***** 2017 re-read“What I say is, a town isn’t a town without a bookstore.
I listened to the full cast audiobook of this while on a long drive and I highly recommend it for the experience. This book is meandering, in such a way that you can feel yourself getting lost. But, in Gaiman fashion, he has a way of tying everything up in the end (or not in some cases) in a way that was satisfying for me. If you don't mind a character focused story with a lot of detours and LOVE mythology, you'll eat this up.
I mean it's a fun conceit, that gods are living among men in modern day America, desperate to regain the faith they once commanded, but I just felt like it wasn't thought through properly.
God is invoked on the currency, on the news, by the head of state, and in schoolrooms every morning by little kids.This is what is so frustrating about the book, because it seems like a brilliant chance to examine religion in the US in a cool and interesting way – but it doesn't.
I'm not saying he is unentitled to this voice or anything like that – his wife is American, he lives in America, this is totally an authentic voice for him.
My literary promiscuity being what it is, I have read and loved a lot of novels in many different genres. However, among the beau coup books that I have loved long time there are a select few that hold a special, hallowed place in my pantheon of favorites…American Gods is one of these elite. Gaiman’s writing is both subdued and poetic. It is deeply emotional, but without a hint of melodrama. His descriptions are elaborate yet not drawn out. He tells a huge, complex, eternal story, one small tal
I don’t know how else to say it, in this book Neil Gaiman took story telling and made it his bitch.
Conversely, as the people forgot about the gods and stopped telling their tales and making offerings to them, their power waned, until now at the beginning of the 21st century in America, Odin’s godly “vigor” is all but lost.
And not much happens in it action-wise, so you're not exactly flipping the pages with any intensity.There's not even really (in my opinion) a slow-build up to anything super-exciting.
Something GOOD is gonna happen in the next few pages!, you know?Thing is, it's got everything I could want in a book.
Which is saying a lot, because I'm normally a real asshole when I feel like a book needed to be chopped down by about 400 pages.Although, unless someone can tell me that Anansi Boys is an Awesome-Not-To-Be-Missed-Roller-Coaster-Thrill-A-Minute-Ride, I'm gonna have to say no to that one.
That’s it.Unfortunately my thoughts on this are inextricable from my listening experience, and double unfortunately that will never be corrected because I’m not going to reread this.
A book in which the aforementioned is true and also it is written by Neil Gaiman should be fascinating and fun AND full-on amazing.American Gods is none of those things and it will be the great quest of my remaining days on this earth to figure out why the hell not.Neil, if you’re reading this, shoot me an email.Bottom line: I’M SORRY I DIDN’T LIKE THIS I’M CONFUSED AND UPSET EVEN EIGHT MONTHS AFTER THE FACT SO CUT ME SOME SLACK OK.
It’s the opportunity for resurrection.”And the goddess, Easter, has a central role.“You’re not dead… but I’m not sure that you’re alive, either.”“Now, dying on the tree, [x] was utterly alive.” This idea of the living not being fully alive is also a recurring theme, but in a very different, non-spiritual sense, in The Book of Ebenezer Le Page, which I recently reviewed HERE.“You people talk about the living and the dead as if they were mutually exclusive… As if you cannot have a river that is also a road, or a song that is also a color… Life and death are two sides of the same coin.”Stories, Islands, and Pearls“Lives are snowflakes - unique in detail, forming patterns we have seen before, but as like one another as peas in a pod”- which, of course, are not very alike when you really look.“We need individual stories… the statistics become people.” Like most writers of fantasy, Gaiman venerates the power of stories: ancient myths, but also the quotidian lives of ordinary folk.
إن كنت مهتما بالأساطير والخرافات والأديان القديمةوالروايات الحديثة السريعة الإيقاع فإنك ستحب هذه الرواية  "If you are to survive, you must believe." "Believe what?" asked Shadow. "What should I believe?" He stared at Shadow, the buffalo man, and he drew himself up huge, and his eyes filled with fire. He opened his spit-flecked buffalo mouth and it was red inside with the flames that burned inside him, under the earth. "Everything," roared the buffalo man!::::::::::::::هي ملحمة خرافية عن الآلهة
‎"Everything," roared the buffalo man!‎::::::::::::::هي ملحمة خرافية عن الآلهة الذين يعيشون بيننا متنكرين على الأرض‏ولكنها ملحمة جد عصريةملائمة تماما لأن تكون أمريكيةوهؤلاء الآلهة أشبه ما يكونوا بأبطال خارقينمنهم من حالفه الحظ وصار قوي مهابومنهم من يعيش في الظلومنهم من يعيش على أمجاد ماضية لم يبق له منها سوى ذكرياتها‏ومنهم من صار نسيا منسياولكنهم الآن مواجهون بطائفة من الآلهة الجددوعليهم دحضهم والقضاء عليهموإلا فما سيحدث لن يحمد عقباه::::::::::::::الفانتازيا تكاد تطلق عليها فانتازيا سوداءفهي مصحوبة بالرعب في هذه الروايةفالجثث تتحرك وتتكلم ‏ولها دور هام في الأحداثوالنساء يتحولن قططاوكثير كثيييير من الغرائبيات::::::::::::::الكاتب يعتمد في القص هنا على الرؤى والأحلام بشكل مكثفوهي باكتمالهالن تستطيع إلا أن تحب شادوضخم الجثة..طيب القلب..كسير الفؤادرجل الظلوالبطل الخفي صاحب ردود الأفعال غير المتوقعةفهو رجل ماتت المرأة التي أحبواكتشف خيانتها مع صديقه المقربودخل السجن وخرج منهولم يعد يبق له سوى خيالات وجثث وماضٍ موجعورغم ذلك تصاحبه زوجته الميتة ‏جثة متحللة وعفريتا من نوع خاص::::::::::::::ربما لو كانت الرواية أقصر قليلا لحازت على نجمة أخرى‏ولكن طولها أمللني في بعض الأوقات‏::::::::::::::يضيعك جاميان بين متاهاتهيحرضك على اطلاق خيالك لأبعد مدىوأبدا لن تنتهي القصة كما تتوقعWhen the people came to America they ‎brought us with them.
I finished American Gods two weeks ago and I postponed writing a review as I was trying to come up with something smart to match the book.
As the next generations believe less and less in them, the Old Gods loose their power and are forced to live as ordinary people, struggling to make a living.
This was probably due to the way the character was constructed, breathing but not really alive, as Laura told him.I will leave you with a quote that touched me deeply as it is so true, especially today when we experience so much tragedy around us.
They need the mortals to believe in them, otherwise they simply cease to exist.I initially thought I wouldn’t write a review about Neil Gaiman’s gloriously dark, strange and haunting classic.
As Wednesday and Shadow start a road trip in preparation for the war that is coming- a fight between the old gods, the values that created the country and the new gods that bring corruption and progress built in sand (yes, that is my personal conclusion….) - we, the readers, find ourselves on a journey that gives us much to think of.
Update: Re-read for the first time in years to prep for reviewing the tv show.
Overall, this is a harder book than I remembered.
So much harder (as in, harder-edged) and more thoughtful than I remember, both.
It's not as twisty/turny surprise-y as it was when I read it last time, but it more than makes up for it with the new thematic things I have the headspace to think about.
There's so much here to play with and I'm hoping they use as much of it as possible.***Original: Here's my new review of this, up on the B&N fantasy blog: http://www.barnesandnoble.com/blog/sc...Yay!!
A man was swallowed by a woman's vagina - so my mom wrote me a note and now I don't have to review this book anymore.
he moves through his story as if through a dream; tragedies and betrayals and mysteries and confidence games, the beginnings and endings of hope and love and life - all viewed as if through water, as if these terrible wonders were happening to someone else.
a terrific payoff.a Road Trip, full of kitchen-sink reality, full of terrible wonder.an old guard, the Old Gods.
his Sandman series is my favorite comic book, full of crazy imagination and complex mysteries and creepy villains and complicated heroes and terrible, wonderful journeys.
DNF 26%I tried, okay? I genuinely want to like Neil Gaiman. I want to fall in love with his stories, and be enchanted, and all things wonderful. But this book is not going to do that for me. It was weird - stories about eating tiger balls and man-eating vaginas, I cannot deal with.
This backdrop allows Gaiman to create a rich story of god and god-like characters that exist solely due to worship and idolization, whether that be an incarnation of an ancient god such as Oden, or the create of a new god, such as media or technology.
The plot is that a small group of new gods (technology boy, media, and the intangibles – modern stock market worship), along with the help of Black Hats, sort of government thugs, are plotting to overthrow the old gods, who are becoming ever weaker due to fading beliefs.
So I asked my mom, what makes good literature and she said two things make good literature:(1) Language must be used in an artistic way.(2) There must be serious themes or metaphors in the work.And this, for the first time ever, made literature make sense to me.By this metric, American Gods is good literature.
The description is deep and enveloping, but does not make the reading labored.This book is about how the old gods, brought to America in the myth and beliefs of immigrants for thousands of years, are alive on the fringes of our society.
Ethnic or local cultures are assimilated into the new American culture.The old gods are metaphors of the ethnic immigrant and local cultures in America.
If you took that cartoon, stirred in some Tom Waits, added a dash or two of Joseph Campbell, sprinkled a handful of jet black humour, creamed in a murder mystery and plopped a few cubes of Houdini’s more impressive escape acts you might have some idea what this book is like.More than once I laughed with pure delight, though more often I just smiled at how nicely this was written and how well the story was handled.
Often it's well done, but at times it interrupts the flow of the narrative.I often enjoy Gaiman's imagery, although occasionally it's self indulgent, seemingly for the sake of being shocking, like the woman that swallows a man through her vagina during sex, and a dead person vomiting maggots.A few loose ends don't particularly seem pertinent, (view spoiler)[ such as the leprechaun that gives Shadow a gold piece, which Shadow then is moved to throw it into Laura's grave.
(view spoiler)[ I'm a little disappointed that Shadow chose to "rest," and wonder if it's inconsistent, as all along he's been Wednesday's man, paid to work and protect him.
