https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1309647.Damien
So I was on the second book of one of the most famous fiction antichrist Saga's known the Damien Omen saga there was 6 book's written by different authors i'm not going sit here and say the book's were based on the film or vice versa when I don't know.
The thing I do know is though, is the sega is amazing, it has that kind of retro Horror feel about it that has been copied a lot, but this is the original and it's held it's craze as a classic.Damien is now 13 in this book.
I had bought this book from a second-hand book shop ages ago.
It was one of those quaint and dark little bookstores, at the corner of the road, you never knew existed until someone brought it to your notice.
So, the experience of buying it from such a place definitely added to the creepiness of the book.I remember I was still in my pre-teens or early teens when this happened, and I ended up liking the book quite a lot.
Compared to the other R.L.Stine horror books that was available in my school library(which I liked as well), this book was RAW!
Interestingly this book had advertisements for cigarettes in the center, which I haven't even seen before in books older than it.Anyway, if you're familiar with the movie, you already know the book's story, for of course it closely follows the film's form, almost word-for-word.
Hmmm not sure if it was supposed to be like that with the movie too or not.I wish they could have included more...I mean, there's a wealth of scenarios out there, and the book is a bit short, but I suppose they try to follow the film as much as possible.As an adaption from a movie, it's good if you're a fan.
4.25. Almost as fun as the 1st, but just a bit too fast paced. Also lots more deaths, as to be accepted in a sequel.
I read this book in high school after I had seen the film starring William Holden and Lee Grant. I read the book because I wanted more insight on the characters, but it was basically a rehash of the screenplay. Hollywood was doing this a lot in the late 1970s with films, turning them into books after the fact. I remember this with was the same with The Hindenburg, Omen III, Halloween, Escape from New York. Regardless, I bought them all, because I loved the films. So not much of a review, but 5 stars for happy memories.
Вторая книга трилогии по определению ни рыба ни мясо. Рыба была в первой части, а мясо должно быть в третьей. Вторая - чисто для связки.Дэмиен наконец осознаёт о себе всё и теперь причиняет зло сознательно. Интересно, как он убил свою приёмную мать (первую): сознательно или нет? В смысле, мне неясно, управляла ли актом убийства няня или это действовали адские силы в целом? И кто управляет вороном, что он всегда в нужном месте в нужное время попадает? Тогда ворон как-то даже сильнее Дэмиена, более того, можно было бы одним вороном обойтись, без Антихриста же.
I don't read the Omen I, but i can say that without reading the first book you can easily cope up with this second book. And the story is so thrilling!!!
I have never seen the films or read any of the other books, so I have no real frame of reference as far as the wider story goes.
But, all in all this was an enjoyable little read.
The story follows Damien Thorn as he comes to the realisation of who he really is (the Anti-Christ), it isn't particularly scary and doesn't capture the creepiness of books like The Exorcist, there are few grisly deaths which I couldn't help notice felt too much like the book is based on a screenplay (as it is).But all things considered it is a solid little read.
It took me a long time to finally go past the first OMEN story.
After reading David Seltzer's original novel, I decided to read all the OMEN books, even though the second and third ones are novelizations of the films.
I really enjoyed this second book, and I felt in many ways it was actually better than the film it was written after.
Damien is now approaching the age of 13, and he his learning about who he really is.
Meanwhile, mysterious, "accidental" deaths keep happening to those who try to go against him.
Absolute must read if you know the first part! One of the all time horror classics. What can I say? It's pretty scary, pageturning, the eternal good vs evil. After the book please also watch the movies. Books and movies are very close. The interesting thing is things omitted in the movies are discussed in the boos. Clear recommendation. You won't regret reading this story!
At the end of each prayer is your amen So isn t omenEarth?There is more than one planetThe only other omen would be the sun2 ballsThe others doing what there suppose toYou would never knowBut there your first omensRead and learn anywayThis book faces the other way for its not right
192 pages
Read the book and watched the movie. Both were top notch.
Great, well-written horror!
As with the first book in the series, I love this book. I've read it several times and it never gets boring. A fantastic read.
Plot:Was it an accident when Joan Hart became the only person with the knowledge of Damien’s evil tendencies?Was it murder when the exhibition site began to crumble in the beginning?Was it a coincidence that people who could be in Damien’s way to gain power are now suddenly dying all around him?Or was it an omen?Review:This is basically cut and paste from the first book except this time, Damien is a teenager.He starts off actually kind of like a likable character.
Damien, de Antichrist, is niet Thorns zoon, maar heeft de plaats ingenomen van hun doodgeboren kind.
Hij is inmiddels opgenomen in het gezin van Richard en Ann Thorn, zijn oom en tante.
Wat ik me herinner is dat ik het boek gelezen had nadat ik er films van heb gezien.
Maar toen ik het boek las, was ik verbaast, want mijn fantasie ging er met meer vandoor dan alleen de scene's van de film.
Soms zag ik de scene voor me maar er waren ook momenten dat mijn fantasie zelf iets invulde.
Het boek is bijna een op een van de film, maar toch ook anders.

This was a fair adaptation of the screenplay/movie. This is the sequel to The Omen and focuses on the trials of a the teenage son of Satan, Damien. It is clunky at times and a mishmash of genres, teen coming of age, horror and thriller Predictably, it was dry at times and overdone because it tries to add too much. Substantive plot and multi-dimensional characters were sacrificed for violence and mayhem. I read it but was disappointed.
Haven't read this book in so long and it is on my to read again list (however not very high on the list so it will be awhile). The one thing I do remember is that out of all three books, this one is the least scariest. However I will update my review after I read this again.
Pretty obvious that both books lead up to the final conflict but I could not help myself - I consider it a good thriller.
I haven't seen the movie but it might be better to watch the movie than read the book, since the book is based on the screenplay. It was entertaining and short but not very well-written and pretty silly. I think the movie would play much better than this book.
One of my all time favourite films and book. Easy to read and the scenes are described well. The book is short. I would have preferred a longer book, giving more insight into the characters. On this occasion I feel the film was the better version.
I did not like the writing. The author used far too many exclamation points at the least proper moments. It was like he was excited about so and so dying a terrible death. I did, however, love the story and the characters. All fantastic <3
Loved this book as a kid.
Excellent writing. Very scary. Better than the first one in the trilogy, actually. The menace grows and grows until the explosion is upon us. Couldn't put it down.
I remember watching the movie on tv with Maureen. She said Damien is a stupid name. I told her it's probably because it's close to "demon" "Oh yeahhhh..."
faithful to the movie and a quick chilling read. really enjoyed this one. will transport u back to the time u saw the movie.
Good novelization.
A faithful adaptation. A few minor deviations from the movie. I do like that the characterizations are more richer as a novel. B
