https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50799.The_Princess
I fell in love with Romance after reading this book. I was 15 and helping to clean out our basement and discovered this book in a pile of my mom's old books. I started reading and found myself swept away to the 1940's and enthralled in a book I couldn't put down. After reading this book, I read as many books by Jude Devereaux I could get my hands on and eventually branched out to other authors and other genres.Still after almost 19 years it is still my most re-read book of all time..
:POver-all Thoughts: ur fail amuses me.The plot was redunkculous.
I've met two year olds who threw less temper tantrums than him.Aria, I both disliked her and felt for her at times when JT was at his worse.
I still can't believe she loves him after all the verbal abuse he put her through.I actually didn't want them to get together in the end.I actually threw my book across the room at one point.Thank god it's over, and I can get rid of it.
Anyone want it?
XDIf you want more of my thoughts on this book, read my status updates.Pass me the booze palate cleanser, kthxbai.
Another much beloved book of all time.
It's set in the 1940s, a time period that I really love.
JT Montgomery is such a good hero, can I have one of him?
This is such a delightful book, from beginning to end.
Alas it's just not a ripe period for historical romances.
This book had some steam when I read it back then.
Loved the lovemaking on the stairs scene.
I also loved the scene when we see Amanda dancing with her daughter-in-law Aura like Carmen Miranda.
This book is just all around wonderful in every way.
เอิม... ถาอานเมือหลายสิบปีทีแลวคงสนุกกวานีนะ แตตอนนีอานแลวรูสึกเรืองมันไมคอยสมเหตุสมผลอะ อานแลวหงุดหงิด พระเอกอารมณแปรปรวนอยางกะวัยทอง พระเอกนางเอกเดียวดีกันเดียวทะเลาะตลอดเว แตอานแลวแอบรูสึกถึงการลาอาณานิคมกลายๆ และมีมายาคติความเปนอเมริกันมากเหมือนกันนะ อยางเรืองการใหพระเอกแตงงานกับนางเอกแลกกับสัญญาซือขายแรมีคาทีอเมริกาตองการและการเขาไปตังฐานทัพ นางเอกตองเรียนรูการเปนคนอเมริกัน และแลวในทีสุดแลวประเทศเลกๆอยางแลนโคเนียทีมีทรัพยากรมีคาของนางเอกกตองพึงพาประเทศทีเจริญกวาของพระเอก
เอิ่ม... ถ้าอ่านเมื่อหลายสิบปีที่แล้วคงสนุกกว่านี้นะ แต่ตอนนี้อ่านแล้วรู้สึกเรื่องมันไม่ค่อยสมเหตุสมผลอ่ะ อ่านแล้วหงุดหงิด พระเอกอารมณ์แปรปรวนอย่างกะวัยทอง พระเอกนางเอกเดี๋ยวดีกันเดี๋ยวทะเลาะตลอดเว แต่อ่านแล้วแอบรู้สึกถึงการล่าอาณานิคมกลายๆ และมีมายาคติความเป็นอเมริกันมากเหมือนกันนะ อย่างเรื่องการให้พระเอกแต่งงานกับนางเอกแลกกับสัญญาซื้อขายแร่มีค่าที่อเมริกาต้องการและการเข้าไปตั้งฐานทัพ นางเอกต้องเรียนรู้การเป็นคนอเมริกัน และแล้วในที่สุดแล้วประเทศเล็กๆอย่างแลนโคเนียที่มีทรัพยากรมีค่าของนางเอกก็ต้องพึ่งพาประเทศที่เจริญกว่าของพระเอก
I've had this book for maybe 6 years and have read it easily 10 times, I believe I picked it up at my local library for about 25 cents. Obviously I like it a lot. The different dynamics and the like really are different from most other romance novels that I have read, making it much more appealing.
Retread from my youth J.T. Montgomery is so hot. lol
The consistency, the conviction, and the execution of the totality of the story is undeniably sublime!
The story is the truth -which may be strange for it is of royalty and royalty is like a fantasy, a dream one heart makes.Every scene behind the story can be seen through the eyes of the readers.
Every scene captured each and every heart.
In addition, the ending is totally heart-warming!
It is like going home to a dear family.In totality, it really touched my heart.
I like romances okay, but I was not a big fan of this one.
I usually have no problem with Jude Deveraux's books, but this one was too much back and forth - they love each other/they hate each other, he's rude to her/she's rude to him, they're together/they're apart, etc.
I kept with it, figuring the end would justify the means, but I was very disappointed in that, too.
I just didn't like this as much as her other books.
I gave it a 3 out of 5 because it IS Jude Deveraux, and that's why I stuck it through to the end.
Honestly speaking, this is one of my favorite books of Jude! Every story I read from her has different meetings and this is one of the most unusual. Truthfully, first I thought it's a weird and impossible meeting but then I realize that there is nothing impossible with Jude :) I sincerely love this book. But it kinda lack of action considering that JT is a marine and that he protects Aria. But this is so good! You better read it or else, you don't know what you're missing in life.

I needed to read this. There has been so much disgusting politics swirling around I needed a distraction. I enjoy reading about the Montgomery men.
I read this book many years ago when I was in middle school, and enjoyed it very much it stuck with me.
Last year I was discussing romance books that I really enjoyed and spent month trying to remember what this one was called and who wrote it..but I found it at last and re-read it.
I enjoyed it just the same again.I loved both characters wh owere fun, smart and both likeable, and the storyline was not the typical fare...which I always enjoy.
But this was a fun read and made me giggle in enjoyment on many ocassion.
One of my favorite romances I read when young that held up with time.

I give this book a 4.5. I loved the story and how Aria lightened up in America. I also loved that her grandfather knew exactly what was going on the whole time. I was worried that there wasn't going to be a happy ending when, five pages from the end, JT went back to America. I loved how Dolly put JT in his place when she realized how badly he was acting towards Aria. Overall, this book has a great love story.
This was an AWESOME book. Just romance (not erotica), but still made me laugh and cry. It was wonderful to see Aria's transformation to clueless, stuckup royal to being very caring.(view spoiler)[The only part I didn't like was after they were married it he spent the night and cheated on Aria days after they were married.  (hide spoiler)]
I first read this back in 2009. I had to re-read it again after reading "For All Time." Oh yeah! This was very entertaining. And, so much more gratifying after reading "For All Time."
In fact, I think this is the ONLY WW2 romance I've ever read.
Aria is the Crown Princess of a country the author makes up.
By the 5th chapter, Aria is a completely sympathetic character & JT is still acting like an ass.
He continues this behavior until the end of the book, but we're supposed to see through it & believe he really loves Aria & is trying not to have his heart broken.
JT's behavior to Aria is still annoying, but I can get past it.
Aria is the direct descendant of Rowan & Jura from "The Maiden".
I found hard to rate this novel, I enjoyed it yes but only one asked did that for me!Aria as a main character was the sole redeeming factor !
I couldn't see what aria saw in him frankly!Their romance was really annoying to and cringeworthy to read ...
I also disliked how Aria's country was depicted as backward !Everything about royalty and her status as a princess felt exaggerated to me .
It had all the ingredients but for some reason the story felt a bit flat to me.
I also felt the hero came over as a bit of a jerk.
I couldn't understand why he behaved like he did.
I could understand her.
I didn't like the ending, it seemed to me the heroine had done all that work for her country, given up so much only to end up outranked by her husband because the poor backward country couldn't do anything for themselves without the big strong americans.
The plot of this book was ridiculous. Aria is nearly killed in the US, somehow our government makes a plan for her to become an American housewife while a fake princess stands in for her (because that makes sense). Then she goes back to her country pretending to be a married American so the palace will choose her to "pretend" to be the real princess. Following? Because it's convoluted and stupid. Nothing more to say.
Set in 1942 during the war, this romance between a princess and an american is sweet. There were times when JT was too harsh to Aria. She's a stranger in a strange land and he treats her horrid. Seeing her grow stronger and independent is great. Seeing him realize how much he loves her is good too.
One of my favorites.I love Jude Deveraux. I started reading her books more than twenty years ago and recently rediscovered them on the Kindle. She is a storyteller in the best sense of the word. Her books take you out of this world and put you in hers.
The plot and characters are all a bit ridiculous, but it was so entertaining I finished it almost in one night.
The PrincessGood exciting pace and wonderful characters. Didn’t want to put it down and didn’t want it to end. Wonderful story
I quite enjoyed the book. liked that it was set in a different time period the 40s. loved the reference of the time.
A hard read as it was not the most interesting. There were some cute quirky parts, but that's about it. It was not very inventive, but okay for it's time.
Good story as only Jude Deveraux can tell about a spoiled Princess and, of course, a dashing hero who helps her to mature and blossom into a loving woman. Enjoyed it.
Short ending...
Other than the beginning where J.T talks like a real fool on finding the princess I really like this book.The story was interesting. It was amusing to read about Arias peculiar air and rules.
A winnerExcitement, a return to the forties, a handsome hunk of a genius, a beautiful princess, and the people of Laconia. Who could ask for more.
