https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5166.Midwives
I'd give this book 5 stars, but there's that damn Oprah sticker on the cover and that kinda wrecks it for me. Kinda like meeting that perfect guy and discovering he has a vagina. I hate when that happens.Anyway.This book was exactly what I needed. A great story. Thoughtful topic. (I highly suggest this book for book clubs - it is sure to generate some conversation) This book was like a Grisham on steroids; meaty.
I gave birth to 5 children at home: 1 with an old-time doctor and 4 with a lay midwife.
My home births were by far my better birthing experiences, especially those with the lay midwife, and all of those children were born whole and healthy, thank G-d.
2. nearly losing the C/S child because the hospital delivery staff didn't believe the lay midwife who said the child had to be born by C/S and thereby making us go through trial of labor before rushing me into a emerg C/S delivery like a Monty Python skit.
The premise of the book is that a very experienced lay (not certified) midwife has a messy delivery in a patient's home in which the mother ends up dying.
In order to save the baby when her efforts at CPR fail, she performs a cesarean on the mother.
The baby, incidently, does live because of her efforts.
I really wanted to find out whether or not the mother would be convicted or not, and really, whether or not she killed her patient.
DAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAANG! I have no idea how Chris Bohjalian wrote the voice of a 14-year-old girl so well that it actually made me remember what it felt like to be 14. AND against my will, mind you. I would do anything to never feel 14 again. There are many other wonderful things about this book. But it's enough to say read it because here is a man writing in the perfect 14-year-old-girl voice and that's some amazing motherfucking writing.
I’ve had Midwives, Chris Bohjalian’s fifth novel, on my to-read list for quite a while, but I resisted reading it until now because of some personal baggage: my only son was born, perfectly healthy, in a hospital; but the labour was prolonged, resulting in life-threatening complications that brought me back to the hospital in isolation for almost three weeks during which I was not even allowed to hold my own newborn child.
And then, one cold winter night, after a difficult and lengthy labour, Sibyl realizes she needs to get the mother, Charlotte to the hospital.
I LOVED this book, which was totally unexpected.
I really enjoyed how it begins and especially how it ends.
Makes me think of the relationship between justice and mercy.I loved the setting and the pace of the criminal trial proceedings.
I had read "Civil Action" before and it was far too mundanely/tediously detailed and slow-moving for me.
Normally I don't appreciate a male author writing a story from a woman's perspective --especially a subject that is this feminine -- but I think Chris Bohjalian did a fantastic job.FABULOUS BOOK!
(Especially to mothers.)*Just read it for the second time 2/10 for another book club.
So the Washington Post Book World says that this will keep readers up late until the last page is turned.
I started the book this morning, and only had hopes that it'd be as good as the last few books I've read.
LOLI guess depending on how you feel about midwives and home births, you could view this book as an injustice upon Sibyl, or an injustice against the woman who died.
Personally, I feel that a woman has the choice as to whether she wants a home birth or a hospital birth.
It's an Oprah Book Club book, of course it's going to bring up opinions.
Midwives reminded me of a Lifetime or Hallmark film. I found it kind of sappy to be honest, but it's an interesting concept with a good mystery.
Having said that, I thought this book was exceptional.
I was definitely drawn to this book, having delivered both of my children with a nurse midwife.
This story is told from the adult daughter's perspective regarding her mother's role ( a midwife) during a home delivery gone bad.
As I noted in someone else's review, I had to stop a few times and remind myself that this was not a true story.
The author very realistically portrays the struggle of the lay midwife vs the nurse midwife/physician.
Well, I finished my adult beverage I wanted to finish before writing this last review of 2012 of the last book I read in 2012.
Initially, I didn't know much about midwifery until I read Midwives, and there really is a lot to learn about it.
This read definitely gives you insight into the profession, and I thought it was very interesting.The beginning was a little slow to me, but before I even got to the middle of the book, it became a lot more interesting and had me hooked until the end.
All things aside, Midwives is a great read.
The cause for the turmoil...her mom, a self-appointed 70's-throwback-midwive who preforms a C-section on a patient in an extreme situation, to save a dying baby from his alreay dead mother.
Well, maybe the birthing mother wasn't dead..so the court drama begins.
I found myself skipping sentences just to move on.I wouldn't have got to the end if it wasn't for Liz's recommendation to finish.
She was right, when I finally got the the end, I understood what she meant.Safe to say, don't read the last page!
my mom insisted i read this book for years.
now it's on the oprah book club so i feel lame saying i read it, because i find oprah's book club to be lame and i find the 'oprah book club' logo on a books front cover detrimental.
But it was an interesting book.
I liked it; a quick read.
It follow the court case of a midwife in vermont who delivers a baby via an emergency c-section in which the mother dies and then they discover that the mother wasn't actually dead before the c-section occured.
it's an interesting premise.
go ahead and read it, it takes about a day.
I read this book when I was on business travel in Zimbabwe and it definitely kept me turning the pages.
As someone who values very strongly the role of midwives in healthcare, this was a tough book to read.
The midwife at the center of the story is faced with a very dangerous (and statistically incredibly unlikely) situation and the outcome makes her a pariah in the community.
She becomes a scapegoat and a target of all sorts of anger, most of which is misdirected and misguided and often comes from people who weren't even affected by the situation.It's a tragic novel, and one that I didn't feel a lot of satisfaction from reading.
Read this book some years ago and I remember really enjoying it, especially the trial.
I felt like I really couldn't connect with the characters well.
We only knew how Connie felt.
I could not sympathize with Sybil ( the midwife) or her husband.
She couldn't give up "catching" babies for the sake of her marriage when she and her husband fought over it.#2.
She knew her daughter was upset when she couldn't make it to dinner, but she always put her job first.
And another thing that made me angry was when another father testified about Sybil having his wife push for 10 hours!
PUSHING?!?Maybe Sybil is this midwife that doesn't think things over.
Well, there is that, but this book is also littered with totally irrelevant tangents, dead-end storylines, rambling emotions and love-life details of a 14 year old, and weird wavering between timelines.It also drove me crazy how the author never explained how the main character, a hippy midwife with "no medical training" but this wise, experienced caregiver, trained or learned her craft.
He made it seem like she just loved wombs and babies so much it made her a natural midwife...it really discredited the character and drove me crazy.
Midwives goes into detail about the practice of midwifery, following Sibyl Danforth as she catches babies.
Sibyl's 14 year daughter, Connie tells the story of a home birth gone terribly wrong.
Did she die on her own, or was still alive when Sibyl tried to save the baby??This book started out extremely strong for me.
Each chapter started out with an excerpt from Sibyl's journals, and then the rest of the book was from Connies 14 yr old perspective.
Connie is telling the story from present day, which is surprisingly easy to follow and the novel is fluid.
As a home-birther I was very intrigued by the topic of this book.
I know the risks that accompany both home and hospital births and, after much study and prayer my husband and I know that home births are the way to go.
I loved the author's portrayal of midwives; his description of their mannerisms, their education, and their outlook was right on with my fabulous midwife.
As I got more into the book I realized it was about much more than home vs.
hospital birthing.
When I was done I enjoyed comparing the situations from "Midwives" and "Mockingbird".
An inside account of one midwife's moments and ordeals in dealing with courts and controversy surrounding a decision she made with a patient.
Each chapter begins with the midwife's diary entry, but then is told from her daughters point of view.
When one of the midwife's patients dies due to an emergency C-section(in order to save the babies life) all heck breaks loose.
Was the mother of the baby dead before she did the C-section or was she instead alive?
I felt really sorry for this midwife but could see mistakes that she made.
Innocent mistakes but ones which would tear her and her family apart.
In this book we follow a US midwife who is at a home birth during a storm when all communication is cut off.
She is later charged with murder as there is some confusion as to whether the mother had actually died or was killed by the operation.The book follows all of this through the eyes of the midwife's 14 yr old daughter.
Throughout the book we are lead to sympathise with all sides of the story - the widower, the medical advisers, the midwife's husband and of course her teenage daughter.
I didn't read this book because it was an Oprah read...I don't think I even knew this was one until today.
This was one of those books I couldn't put down but...
I was amazed by the authors ability to write about such an emotional subject(home childbirth gone wrong)and had to remind myself numerous times that it was written by a man, he really seemed to be able to capture the labor and childbirth from a woman's point of view.
For me it reminded me that decisions we make in life really do count on so many levels.
This book was ok. It did not draw me in like many books do. While it was interesting, it wasn’t a book I had a hard time putting down. Many parts could have had a deeper story behind them but were mentioned vaguely as a minor detail. Something about the book just didn’t grab me. The ending was very non-emotional and anti-climactic.
A very unexpected story. Sibyl the midwive and her patient. Sibyl is accused of murder, but she saved a life . The majority of the story took place in the court room, with all the drama. Sibyl's life changes forever. The story was very well written .
If we needed less of this book, maybe (view spoiler)[the daughter should have gone along on the night of the fateful birth (hide spoiler)].
(hide spoiler)]The novel's as messy as the ethics involved.Full disclosure: in the years since I put this book on my TBR list, I have learned much more about home birth and the various kinds of midwives practicing in the United States.
It's when something goes wrong that you need a doctor, who (view spoiler)[can tell the difference between vagaling out and a freaking stroke and can perform a safe Cesarean -- and as a nurse-midwife, you too would be better trained to understand (hide spoiler)].
This book tells the story of a modern day midwife who is on trial for involuntary manslaughter when a patient dies during labor.
The story is told through the eyes of the midwife's 14 year old daughter, as the case goes through the trial, with flashbacks of the event and the lives of the characters involved unfold.
i have such a personal aversion to home births and midwifery in this day and age, and for all the reasons that come out in this story.
And in this case, the author's bias is so strongly in favor of midwifery and home birthing that he tries everything to get the reader's sympathy.
This was a book that I started several years ago and then lost interest.
This is the story of a young girl's family, particularly her mother and the singular event of her mother's life which helped to form hers.
Sibyl saved the child by doing an emergency operation...and, there the story starts.
Was the patient really dead or did Sibyl's action kill her?Connie is Sibyl's 14 year old daughter and the anrrator of the story and its events.
I got thoroughly caught up in Connie's story of her mother and the trial and found that I believed the outsome of the trial was sure.
I hate when I try to rely on Oprah's sense of literary excellence in deciding to read a book.
My second favorite book of all time was an Oprah Book Club selection (although the author of "The Corrections", Jonathan Frantzen, tried to avoid that "stigma" as it was the Scarlet Letter of Literary Criticism).
And 9 times out of ten, I am usually terribly disappointed.
Such is the case with "Midwives", a "story" primarily about a midwife who has a birth go terribly wrong for her, and the subsequent court trial that ensued.
In fact, worldwide, most babies are born at home (yes, even in developed countries.
In terms of infant mortality - as of 2006 - the US (where most babies are born in the hospital) ranks 29th in the world.
Far below - say, The Netherlands - where most babies are in fact delivered by midwives - many at home.
I chose a third option - a hospital-sponsored off-site birthing center staffed by both lay and certified nurse midwives.
So I am well aware that things can go wrong with births that happen outside of the hospital.
I actually think it deserves 4 stars, but the circumstances that surrounded the reading of this book insist upon a 3 star rating.
What was I thinking reading a book about a tragic home delivery 4 months before I'm due?
And although I am not planning on having a home delivery (not that there's anything wrong with that) Just the description was a little to vivid for me.
I'd love to hear about any of your reasons for home delivery (if any of you have done it).
Give it a read, just not when you're pregnant.
But reading good books is like eating good food- once you're accustomed to the good stuff you can't go back to eating fast food (or stupid writing).The second reason I found this book unreadable is that I am a homebirth culture junkie, and a lot of the ideas about midwives and homebirth that are taken for granted in this book are against what I know and believe about midwifery.
I think the actual facts about birth appear to be solid, but there's a lot of missing nuance- it's clear that the author has not spent any time immersed in home birth culture.
