https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/504128.The_Complete_Works_of_E_M_Bounds_on_Prayer
I am currently reading this book as part of my daily quiet encounters with God. Excellent book on the vitally important privilege of communicating with the Almighty, very personal God. I would highly recommend this book to all of my friends. It will challenge, chide, and encourage simultaneously!
If you want to know just how much things have changed in the last 150 years, in terms of spirituality and faith, you should read this book.
Then again, if you want to see just how little they have changed you should also read this book, for the challenges Bounds lays forth are essentially the same ones we would lay before Christians today.
Questions are the order of the day: Do you want to lead,Do you want to pastor, Do you want to preach, teach, be a missionary, see God change the world...Bounds has only a one word answer for you, and it's the same as his (highly recommended) book.
One of the best quotes in the book that has stuck with me... "Praying will either make you leave sinning or sinning will make you leave praying!" Classic great book!
How much do you value your sleep.
If you decide to go on this journey with E.M Bounds, be prepared for a life-changing experience.
For anyone desiring a deeper walk with Christ and a more intimate relationship with God, this book is required reading.
No longer will you be content with a few stolen moments in distracted prayer.
Bounds will convince you that your powerless walk and constant hunger for more of God is but a symptom of a stunted prayer life.
If you are content, complacent, and satisfied with superficial Christianity...avoid this book at all cost.
This book will make you reevaluate your concept of prayer and your faith in God's willingness and ability to answer those prayers. Bounds conveys the fact that superficial prayers are empty and pointless, and that earnest prayers are an essential part of a Christian's relationship with the God of all creation. You won't read this and come away with the same mindset of "surface" praying. It contains all eight of Bounds' books on prayer. Highly recommended!
My favorite Christian book of all-time...if you want to learn how to pray, this is the only book you'll need (besides the Bible, of course....Occasionally, I want to go back and reread works that have moved me and encouraged me in the past. And if it's a personal relationship with God you want, there is no better "how-to" book. Church life I'm kinda tiring on but growing a deeper relationship with God is something I'm always desiring.
Let's say that if prayer were hard work (and it is), this is the whip that drives me to my knees. It's divided into sub-sections that make it a book that can be worked through over a long period of time (I still am). I love that he calls prayer a "struggle" and a "wrestling" with God. Read it. You'll be glad you did.
No personal library is complete without The Complete Works of E. M. Bounds on Prayer! It will forever change what you think about prayer. It will change your life.
I'm marking this done for now because I've finished the first book in the collection and I need to sit and soak in all I've read. This is not a light-hearted read for someone wanting to know more about prayer. Instead, it's deep and thought-provoking, challenging and inspiring. This is a book I will return to many times over the next several years, both to remind myself of what I've read and to read a little more.
Can't say enough about this book. Introduced it to my husband and he agrees, it is the best book on prayer. It is challenging to read. But so worth it. If one is interested in prayer, this is a must read book.
Great book on a man who prayed great prayers. Awesome book on prayer.
This is an excellent book that every Christian needs in their personal library. E.M. Bounds classics on prayer will motivate you to the prayer life that God desires for all of his children to have.
I loved this book! I highly recommend it!! Have you ever been convicted about your lack of sufficient praying? This book stirs that fire! Read this book and watch God continue to prod you to spend more time with Him!
The cover art is an attractive retro piece I assume was on an individual book.The books included in the collection:Power Through PrayerPrayer and Praying MenPurpose in PrayerThe Essentials of PrayerThe Necessity of PrayerThe Possibilities of PrayerThe Reality of PrayerThe Weapon of PrayerChapters are short, so the reader may want to approach the book as a devotional, reading one or two chapters per day.
This is an antiquated stylistic, though some authors use this approach today.I recommend this book to anyone wanting to learn more about the subject of prayer and the application of the same.
This book makes a fantastic daily devotional. He speaks the truth with love about prayer without being legalistic but still very determined. This allows the pages to comfort us in the knowledge of God's presence and spur us on toward growth to maturity which only comes through time spent in communion with the Lord Himself.
Prayer is my all in all, to experience the depths of God...I would recommend this book to all in the modern church of today...holiness is not to be left to early history books, we all need a revival in our prayer closets today. I want all of God in my life and prayer must be number one in securing His presence.
I can't really say I enjoyed this book.I read it, there were some parts that were quite convicting and many more parts that didn't make sense.Sometimes the author contradicts himself and so that made it even more difficult to understand.A good book to read if you are interested in living a more prayerful life.
Reading through the epic became a walk through the life and experiences of EM Bounds. I cannot point to one significant aspect of this work, but through reading it th call to prayer and images of inspiration have grabbed me... Loved this!
This book gave me so much more faith in my prayers. It is 7 books packed in to this volume and each of them will show with scripture how God answers our prayers. It will make you a better Christian and a better praying Christian. I try and read this book each year.
This is an amazing resource, I would read a chapter for my devotional time. It was very inspiring.
The best collection on prayer.
This author has mentored and inspired me over and over. His work is life giving and a great manual for someone hungry to learn about getting answers to prayer.
an awesome and insightful book... difficult to read the first time but mighty and powerful blessings flow from the words... Take your time with this one.
Great reference book. I will be referring back to this book frequently.
The Complete Works of E.M. Bounds on Prayer by E. M. Bounds (1990)
The best book on prayer I have ever read! I am slowly making my way through this one, but I have learned so much already.
challenging.
most complete and beneficial study of prayer I have ever read! Excellent stuff.
On page 493 -will be glad when I finish! It is a great book though.
Great book.
