https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6302723-john-carter-and-the-giant-of-mars
After reading the rest of the series, this is dreadfully disappointing. The characters and some elements of the plot are familiar, but it seems to have been written by ERB's son. The text reads like it was written to accompany a graphic novel or comic. The best thing about it is its brevity.
In this novella of Barsoom, which is third-person unlike most other stories in the franchise, Warlord John Carter and his wife Dejah Thoris are riding on a thoat in the forest, where the minions of a mad scientist named Pew Mogel kidnaps the latter.
The Warlord soon finds a prominent adversary, the titular giant, named Joog, whom he seeks to evade, fighting giant rats along the way.John Cater ultimately encounters Joog’s creator, Pew Mogel, who plots to transfer his brain to a younger body, being a synthetic man, and a pupil of Ras Thavas.
Written by Burroughs' son, this novel is god-awful. Apparently, it started out as a children's book; all I know is it reads like a bad '80s cartoon. It might make an OK bedtime story for your six-year-old, but that's about it. Plus, it's largely inconsistent with the rest of the John Carter series.
More of a sketch than a fully developed novel.
This is the first of two stories that collectively make the book “John Carter of Mars,” the second of which I will be reading in the next month or two.
John Carter and the Giant of Mars was really a chore to get through.
All I know is that this book is quite a slog to get through.The entire book is done in a telling rather than showing narrative.
(So, Burroughs tells us what the characters are doing, rather than showing us.) And the story is riddled with passive voice.
It read like it was written by someone not really familiar with Barsoom.
It's worth reading if you're a Barsoom fan, but only if you really liked the other books and just want a little more.
There's one point in the books where the Jeddak of Helium summons Tars Tarkas.
One does not summon Tars Tarkas.
The story did get better after the first quarter of the book.
This book uses a lot of terminology different from the other books.
It's just part of the style differences that I found rather off-putting.
As a Barsoom fan, I don't regret reading it, but it is flawed.
A juvenile tale of Barsoom written by ERB's son, this short piece has all the requisite parts of a John Carter story but missing some crucial element.
It's a story that likely wouldn't do well with today's youth for though the protagonist is possessed of powers beyond that of normal people, he isn't crippled by angst.
Yet, that isn't the crucial missing element.
In other Barsoom stories, the heroes are under some kind of threat or in perceivable danger, manufactured or not.
Even in the clutches of the giant Joog, the reader is never really in doubt of John Carter's supremacy and eventual victory.
This enjoyable short novel by Edgar Rice Burroughs is easily obtainable in "Amazing Stories Fact and Science Fiction: Giant 35 Anniversary Issue". It has been well formatted for Kindle and other e-readers. "John Carter and the Giant of Mars" is a stand alone piece which has all the entertainment one finds in the rest of the series. There's lots of action and even a bit of humour in the story. Fans of the Barsoom series will want to get this and in this edition they will get a number of other enjoyable works that appeared in "Amazing Srories".
It was still good but here Dejah Thoris is portrayed more like a scared and powerless little damsel in distress, way different the the first book .. to me this was a little disappointing. Also, the story is narrated from a 3rd person's view which took me by surprise because the adventures in the first book were told by Jon Carter himself. I found that the storytelling in this book was laking flavor.
Typical John CarterGreat series by Edgar Rice Burroughs. I first read John Carter of Mars when I was stationed overseas. I read John Carter of Mars and I was hooked. The series is a real page turner and hard to but down or find a place to stop. Even though this book was not written ERB it was written in his style. To anyone who likes Pulp Fiction I would highly recommend this book and I hope to see more from this author.
It's hard to believe that ERB wrote this book. Other than the names of the main characters, it has little in common with any of the other Barsoom books. It is really, really awful, even more so if you are a fan of the other mars books. If I could give it zero I would.
Adventures of Legendary John Carter. Legendary beauty of Dejah Thoris, portrayal of a woman character, worth every adventure and worth dyeing for. Keeps you waiting for more. For those who love adventures. Great read.
terrible. utterly infantile and atrocious
Mediocre.
Рассказ уровня школьного спектакля написанный сыном Эдрага Берроуза..
Really fun book! Need to already be familiar with the Barsoom -Mars- series to read it.So fun!
I brought a 1940 copy of this home from my grandmother's bookshelf. This copy is only 4x3", from The Little Book series. Fun little read.
