https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125662.Say_Cheese_and_Die_

#4 "One picture is worth a thousand screams."An evil cursed camera? No that couldn't be real, right? Greg and his three friends are about to find out!
Από την αγαπημένη σειρά, ένα βιβλίο για μια φωτογραφική μηχανή που τραβάει φωτογραφίες και προκαλεί ατυχήματα! Φαντάζεστε να πέσει σε επικίνδυνα χέρια; Και φυσικά ο τρόπος της είναι πάντα πρωτότυπος: από περίεργα ατυχήματα μέχρι εξαφανίσεις, κλπ....
It's not complete dreck and the plot doesn't meander or introduce too many characters to be confusing, which I remember from later Goosebumps books.They are definitely not books that are truly enjoyable at any age.
I still remember thinking 12 was the best age ever, because that's when you get to have all these cool adventures.Now I'm actually kind of disappointing.
I mean, I thought I was going to embarass my 10-year-old self for ever reading these books.
I am pretty sure I read and loved this one as a kid. Still enjoyable. Evil camera. Loved the ending!
Greg's very amuse with the idea of having a camera so he began by taking a picture of his friend Michael who is leaning on the stair railing.
Suddenly, the railing gives way and Michael falls.
Greg surprisingly discovers that the picture does not show Michael standing by the stair railing but instead FALLING.
Caught dumbfounded, Greg and his friends continued to investigate and discover the unearthly events the "evil" camera had caused to go along with them.Years after years, I found out that there's a sequel to it (forty-fourth book): Say Cheese and Die - Again!, and Say Cheese - And Die Screaming!
5 Words: Nasty, selfish, thieving little shits.I think I've made my thoughts on Goosebumps quite clear... No thank you.4That's two books in a row filled with the most obnoxious children in the world. I'm gonna try a third one in case it's just a fluke and I happen to have picked up the wrong ones, but I'm not keeping my fingers crossed.These books are fine for a certain kind of kid, but even when I was young I was rolling my eyes and not impressed by breaking and entering and burglary.
But it doesn't take him long to figure out that something is really wrong with the camera.When he takes pictures of his friends and family, they are not in the smiling stances that they posed in.
After that, the neighborhood bullies who had been tormenting the kids, find the camera and start taking pictures of each other with it, continuing the cycle of evil.
But only a bit scared - these books are great at being genuinely frightening, but not scarring.This idea of a camera that causes people to suffer, die, get injured, disappear - is fascinating and gripping.
العدد الأول من سلسلة صرخة الرعب قصة مرعبة تذكرني بمرحلة المراهقة وخاصة انها تتناول القصص المرعبة بطريقة بسيطة وجميلة مناسبة لجميع الاعمار وغالبية أبطالها " أي السلسلة " هم من المراهقين والأطفال :) لكنها ممتعة ومسلية تدور أحداث القصة حول مجموعة من الاصدقاء الذين يشعرون بالملل فيقرورون ان يقتحموا بيتا مهجورا وهناك يعثروا على كاميرا ملعونة تلتقط صور للمستقبل وتكون غالبيتها مأساوية وتحدث واقعيا مع من تصوره وتبدأ الأحداث مشوقة ومرعبة في نفس الوقت وتنتهي نهاية مفتوحة كغالبية قصص الرعب ، وأن الرعب مازال مستمرا :) !؟
These books were a lot better when I was a kid.
What the Goosebumps books were, however, was fun, and though I was obviously less discerning about quality in my younger days, they're still fun for me as a grown-up, for the sake of nostalgia.In this volume, we meet a boy named Greg, who just isn't that smart.
It takes him, like, half the book the realize that, no, the camera he misappropriated is not broken; some seriously fucked-up shit is going on here.
Like it matters.
Nice cliffhanger, though, I guess.Kids will probably like it, I think.
Such a fantastic short book
4 out of 5! a classic from my childhood! full review to come
I mean, a group of teens who find an old camera that can cause bad events in the future?
but it just ended up being unoriginal, choppy and full of generic, boring characters.
A lot of Nineties YA series unfortunately ended up with choppy, descriptiveness writing (The Secret World of Alex Mack, Bone Chillers, etc.) and Goosebumps novels are no exception.
Thank god more detailed and intelligent books for preteens like the Harry Potter series are available.
Goosebumps is great for nostalgic value and quick reading to pass the time, but most of the books, this one included, just aren't worth reading once you get past eight years old.
the veal is really good, monit's chicken, sweetie...Hahaha! the first r l stine book i read, and it's my last of his for kids
Feels slightly weird being 30 and just now going through the books of my childhood that I never read then as it ruins the excitement I probably would have felt when I was 8, but oh well.
Better late than never, right?Say Cheese and Die is a decent concept in theory...vaguely reminiscent of something from The Twilight Zone, and it’s definitely better than both Stay out of the Basement and Monster Blood.
I’ll say though, that it’s hardly scary...even by a 9 year old’s standards.
I’m sure even me, the biggest wuss in all of the 2nd grade, could have read this one way back in 1994 and had no serious feelings of fear.
This book is caled "Goosebumps: Say Cheese and Die" by R.L StineWhile wondering what to do on a boring summer day, three friends Greg, Doug and Shari decide to investigate the house of a old wicked man nicknamed "Spidey".
They just went out of the house as fast as they could.When Greg gets home, he sees that his father had bought a new car.
His old brother Terry tells him about it and Terry asks him to take a picture with and the car.
(That is the front cover og the book) The next day, Greg goes to Shari´s house because it was her birthday.
This is a Goosebumps book so how in the world am I supposed to give it a star rating?
I started borrowing them from the library lady who was known to be strict and not-so-fun.
I would read the books in the same day and returned them the other day.
The library lady took a liking in me and soon I started borrowing a couple books at one time and return them after the weekend.
I'm gonna read like it's 1994!
I only stopped when the 'Goosebumps 2000' series came out but I'm not sure if that's because they were rubbish or I was just getting older and had started to lose interest.
I was reading the part where they are on the motorway and was like 'Hang on a tick, this is American'.
I guess they changed it for the English audience, I guess you can't just leave that in as I'm not sure how many kids will know what a free way is.
Don't steal people's stuff!
Not only is it bad but you might steal something evil!
Από τα πλέον αγαπημένα μου βιβλία της σειράς αυτής, που σου προκαλεί από τις πρώτες κιόλας σελίδες του ένα αίσθημα φόβου και αγωνίας. Το μεταφυσικό στοιχείο είναι έντονο και καλοδουλεμένο, ενώ η σφιχτή και νευρώδης πλοκή δεν σε αφήνει να χαλαρώσεις ακόμα και όταν φτάσεις στις τελευταίες του σελίδες... όπως, άλλωστε, συμβαίνει με όλα τα βιβλία του Stine που πίσω από το "έζησαν αυτοί καλά" κρύβει ένα... "ίσως".
Say Cheese and Die! (Goosebumps #4), R.L. Stineعنوان: بگو پنیر و بمیر - کتاب 04 از سری دایره وحشت (جلد 05 انتشارات ویدا)؛ نویسنده: آر. ال. استاین؛ مترجم: ماندانا قهرمانلو؛ ویراستار: محمد قاسم زاده؛ تهران، ویدا، 1385؛ در 133 ص؛ شابک: 9789646807808؛ چاپ دوم 1386؛ چاپ هفتم 1392؛ عنوان: بگو پنیر و بمیر - کتاب 04 از سری دایره وحشت (جلد 05 انتشارات ویدا)؛ نویسنده: آر. ال. استاین؛ مترجم: شهره نورصالحی؛ تهران، پیدایش، 1388؛ در 190 ص؛ شابک: 9789643496609؛
It wasn't the best written book ever. But, it had an interesting concept which made me enjoy it.
Amused at the idea of having a camera Greg takes a picture of his friend Michael who is leaning on the stair railing.
While the friends cannot come up with an explanation for the strange photo, all discussion ceases when footsteps are heard and the 3 friends flee the house taking the camera with them.As time goes on Greg takes a picture of his father's new car, but the picture depicts the car totally wrecked.
The next day, Greg goes to his friend Bird's baseball game; a picture of Bird is taken and the picture depicts him lying on the ground with his neck bent in an unnatural angle.
Actual Rating: 3.5 starsI like the flow of this story and I can't wait to read the next part of this. The story of this appeals to me more than the last one I've read. It's just creepy how the story about the camera evolves. How evil it is. It's just I wanted to know more about the story of Spidey and how he is related to the camera.
Bastante flojo, la idea es buena y como empieza el autor a desarrollar los hechos; pero llegado un punto, la historia pierde completamente el rumbo y termina con un final desastroso.La mayoría de los personajes bastante desperdiciados.
I shouldn't like a children's horror novel this much, but it's great.
It's a perfect Stephen King setup: a kid finds a camera in an abandoned house and when he takes pictures with it, they come out wrong.
His dad's brand new station wagon looks wrecked in the photo, and then the next day his dad has a terrible accident.
In a group photo, one of his friends disappears, and then...
his friend disappears.
In my opinion, these books are just as good as Stephen King.
They're basically the same exact thing, except Stine's are short and don't have gore or sex.
I really enjoyed this story! It’s kind of like final destination for young adults. Stine always manages to make goosebumps frightening without actually killing anyone. I thought the premise was unique, and it kept my attention the entire time making me wonder what was gonna happen next. There were a few character flaws but honestly you do not read goosebumps for amazing characters!
I've been trying to ignore the fact that Goosebumps were written in the 90's, but Say Cheese and Die is "radical" to the core.
Even the descriptions of color-blocking clothing and "be home by dark" adage kept the story in a tight 90's box while the other books were able to have modern settings.
Background aside, it was a unique mini ghost story with an unconventional premise.
I don't plan on rifling through a hobo named Spidey's possessions for a haunted camera any time soon, but never say never.
As long as I don't immediately perish if I say cheese!
And that's coming from someone who thought Monster Blood aka Evil Flubber was the worst book.
It's because they are 12-year-old idiots who have no common sense whatsoever.I mean first it causes the main characters (who is a know it all, which is one of the worst traits to have in a main character) friend to sprain his ankle as he falls off a flight of stairs.
It only took this girl disappearing for Greg to FINALLY realize that something is wrong and something is evil with this camera, and that's when he finally decides to get rid of the stupid thing.
Greg figures out pretty quickly that the camera takes photos of horrible future events, but the rest of his friends refuse to believe him and want to use the camera at a party.
When one of their closest friends disappears after her photo is taken, Greg tries to take the camera back to its hiding place.
Greg stashes the camera back in its hiding place, but the book ends with two new kids finding the evil device.The characters in this novel are dumb as empty film canisters, and the story itself is rather silly when you think about it.
Greg thinks there is something wrong with the camera that him and his friends found.
Then a couple days later the car gets wrecked.But Greg's friends don't believe him even Shari makes Greg bring the camera with him to her birthday party and when the picture developed Shari didn't come out in the picture.
That old evil camera.This is a low 3rd-low 5th grade level reading book, but also frightening scenes and climaxes, so there's finally a book a couple 4th graders can read, since theres none out there.But not much exciting grammar!
So if you like scary and nimble scenes or books this would be a book for you.
