https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4345498-magic-strikes
The Top 8 Reasons why you should drop everything you're doing and grab the Kate Daniels series ASAP (focusing on Magic Strikes)1. The huge variety of mythology: celtic, greek, and now norse and hindu. Honestly, every supernatural creature you've ever heard will make an appearance, preferably soaked in blood and other substances I dare not name, and will deliver you extraordinary threats, unique bloodbath and eventually it will be killed in the most badass way.2. The Midnight Games. An undergrou
The Top 8 Reasons why you should drop everything you're doing and grab the Kate Daniels series ASAP
I will admit that while reading the first chapters I thought Magic Strikes would be a 4 stars read, they seemed pretty lame compared to the incredible plotline of the second book.
You can fall on your hands and knees if you prefer.
Besides the sizzling tension and their fights, in Magic Strikes we saw how much Curran and Kate care for each other, that despite their differences there is something strong brewing between them, something more than raw attraction.
They're falling in love.
I enjoyed the first two books in this Kate Daniels series, but Magic Strikes reached new levels of fun and games (of the gladiator death match variety) and just sheer awesomeness.Kate Daniels and her werewolf, werehyena, and other shapeshifter friends get mixed up with some shady goings-on in connection with the Midnight Games, an underground organization that puts on illegal, to-the-death cage fights of the magical variety.
(I hypothetically might have read a certain hot tub scene three or four times as well.) I also LOVE a legal throwdown Kate does when Jim, the Pack's chief of security, tries to stonewall her."James Damael Shrapshire, in your capacity as the Pack's chief security officer, you have permitted Pack members under your command to deliberately injure an employee of the Order.
⚔  The Grand IAA™ KD Buddy Rerererereread Extravaganza  (GIAAKDBRE™), aka the yellow brick road to Magic Triumphs ⚔Presenting Episode 3, or How Kate Daniels Learned not all Cats Hate Water Hot Tubs.»  And the moral of this particular rererereread is:  TWT-IHFB is the best bloody shrimping acronym in the history of bloody shrimping acronyms. Trust me on that one, I practically invented the concept. Of bloody shrimping acronyms, I mean. Not of TWT-IHFBs. I wish I had, though. Because it's, you kno
And who doesn't love aggravating cats sneaky kitties the universe exploding Curran trouble?[June 2016]❣ KD is the Cure to All of Life's Problems Buddy Read (KDitCtAoLPBR™) with my dear wife Ange, and the poor IAA souls who have fallen into our deathly KD Surprise Reread Trap (KSRT™).✎ Original rating: 5 stars✎ Rating after xxxxxx rereads: boom.
This is going to be a long day.► 9.30 a.m.: your best friend tells you she doesn't want to be Raphael's TWT-IHFB.
God. The Universe just exploded.► 2.00 p.m.: explain to your furry friends why you want Cesare's head.
If I find a new person who loves KATE DANIELS, I friend request them.
Magic Bites (Kate Daniels, #1)
Magic Burns (Kate Daniels, #2)
Magic Mourns (Kate Daniels, #3.5)
Magic Bleeds (Kate Daniels, #4)
Magic Dreams (Kate Daniels, #4.5)
Magic Slays (Kate Daniels, #5)
Magic Tests (Kate Daniels, #5.3)
Magic Gifts (Kate Daniels, #5.4)
Gunmetal Magic (Kate Daniels, #5.5)
Magic Rises (Kate Daniels, #6)
Magic Steals (Kate Daniels, #6.5)
Magic Breaks (Kate Daniels, #7)
Magic Shifts (Kate Daniels, #8)
Magic Binds (Kate Daniels, #9)
Iron and Magic (Kate Daniels, #9.5) 
Magic Triumphs (Kate Daniels, #10) 
I think the first Mona Lisa book by Sunny had the two main characters jump each others bones within the first 10 pages.
Andrews sticks to a select few of Kate's friends and acquaintances and really develops them and all I want to do is read more and more.
This was the type of book where you're almost at the end and you're hoping 20 more pages will magically appear because you don't want it to stop.
I honestly couldn't stop smiling after I read the last page and even after I closed the book I had a stupid grin on my face.
In addition, to ensure fair and full disclosure, please see the attached terms and conditions of my surrender : Clause # 1 : I hereby certify that the writing, including the narration, the transitions and the pacing, did get better.
Clause #2 : Albeit unwillingly, I concede that Curran's behavior improved grandly (*) and that the development of his relationship with Kate did get better.
Clause #3 : It doesn't come as a surprise that my complete admiration for Kate didn't waver but on the contrary, tended to increase in full speed.
(*) Despite these improvements, I am withholding my final judgment until complete disappearance of his stalkerish and aggressive tendencies.
Yes I'm reading the Kate Daniels Series AGAIN and guess what I love it a little more every time. 3rd read and this is still my favorite of the series. So many great moments. This book gets ALL THE STARSKate Daniels Buddy Read/Reread May 25 with the gang at Ilona Andrews Addicts (IAA)Revised Fangirl Review upon the Re-read of the series before Magic Breaks is Released. Magic Strikes has Gladiator style fighting with MAGIC so it is even better, sexual tension so thick you can cut it with a knife,
Yes I'm reading the Kate Daniels Series AGAIN and guess what I love it a little more every time.
All the quips, the intense and extremely entertaining battles, the budding relationship between Raphael and Andrea, the extreme sexual tension, Curran staking his claim on the ever reluctant Kate:“Also, when he opened the door to leave, Curran told him very casually that if Jim wanted to pick fights with his future mate, he was welcome to do so, but he should keep in mind that Curran wouldn’t come and rescue him when you beat his ass.
This is going to be a long day.► 9.30 a.m.: your best friend tells you she doesn't want to be Raphael's TWT-IHFB.
Things are looking up.► 1.00 p.m.: tell His Furriness he's a deadly psychopath with a god complex.
God. The Universe just exploded.► 2.00 p.m.: explain to your furry friends why you want Cesare's head.
Who would have thought?► 8.30 p.m.: try telling the people in your head to shut up.
“I don’t want to be his TWT-IHFB” “What does that mean?” “That Weird Thing I Haven’t Fucked Before.” I choked on a bite of gyro.“His Majesty needs a can-I girl anyway.
I promised myself that I would review this book after finishing it the second time around.
I took expansive notes, I copied my favorite quotes down in preparation and I even went so far as to try to start writing a review while still reading.
I made several attempts actually.
The second was a serious breakdown of the story and characters that just felt all wrong and the third was a half drunken, rambling poem modeled after “There once was a man from Nantucket”.
I’d say it’s pretty obvious that all attempts failed miserably.
Reread 7/2018I can't believe I didn't review this book back when I read it for the first time, this is definitely where the series began to pick up for me.
This reread of the series has reminded me of why I like this series and this author.
I only made it to book 4 the first time around, and while I am taking a quick break after this one, I fully intend to finally catch up with this series.
It's reminded me of why I love PNR.-----------------------------------------------------------I don't feel like reviewing, so all I'll say is this book was awesome.
This series is awesome and you should read it.The end.
Here's to the honeymoon never ending.Very rarely do I come across a series that I don't want to end, but the Kate Daniels series is one of those cases.Every time I start one of these books, I know I won't be disappointed.
It is more than worth it, though.Having not read a lot of UF titles prior to this series, I'm not claiming that my opinion on this genre is reputable.
I've tried the first book in a lot of YA and adult series, and, even though there isn't anything necessarily wrong with them, they've failed to make me want to continue on and see what happens to the characters.
New thoughts: I love how loyal Kate is and how much she cares for her friends.
I don't usually care for shifters as much as other paranormal creatures, but IA writes them well.
We get to meet Hugh (another personal favorite).
The mythology is absolutely amazing in this and so much happens along personal levels with various characters.
Buddy Re-read at Ilona Andrews Addicts (IAA).YASSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS.
I don't even have anything to say except Kate, Curran, and crew were total, fierce bad-asses in a freaking gladiator style arena filled with mythological creatures.
Kate Daniels is one of the best all-time female heroines in urban fantasy.
If you haven't read this series yet, you need to at least read the first three. The first two books were good, but this one is magic! :)Originally read in February of 2015. Rereading with the Ilona Andrews Addicts group.Here's my original review:Best one yet in the series! Have I mentioned how much I love Kate Daniels? Oh yeah, I guess I have, just in every other review of these books. She is so funny and sarcastic. I find myself chuckling while reading. "What kind of shapeshifter has orange fur
:)Originally read in February of 2015.
Rereading with the Ilona Andrews Addicts group.Here's my original review:Best one yet in the series!
Oh yeah, I guess I have, just in every other review of these books.
In this book, we get to experience the "Midnight Games", which remind me of some of the video games that my sons play , like League of Legends or TF2.
There is a lot of fighting and action, but with the usual humor mixed in.It is also fun to watch Curran and Kate get closer.
I like how there is no insta-love in these books at all.
Where they sluggishly built up to a semblance of a plot, this one made it clear from the start.Where they were slow with more descriptions than action, this one was a non-stop Rambo movie-with better CGI.Where they had characters and, at times, scenes that just didn't make sense, this one read with perfect clarity leading us down a very dangerous rabbit hole.
From the characters, to the plot, to the world, to the freaking sexual tension-that is driving me insane, if you must know-it's just...There are no words.Every single person who said I would enjoy this and motivated me to keep going...I send you hugs!
Holy mother of cliffhangers, I hate it when they do that!!Okay, you got me. I totally adore Ilona Andrews and wouldn’t fault them for a thing. Part of a Kate Daniels full BR with the IAA, Magic Strikes is the best KD novel yet. Seriously, better than book 2 and WAY better than book 1. There is so much Curran in this book and it is a feast for the mind and soul. There’s enough humor to fill the pages just based on Kate’s reaction to his name.  ”So, how are things with you and Curran?”There were t
Part of a Kate Daniels full BR with the IAA, Magic Strikes is the best KD novel yet.
”So, how are things with you and Curran?”There were times in life when I wished for supreme mental powers.
But right now I wanted them so I could pull the chair out from under Andrea and maker her fall on her butt.I settled for spitting three times over my left shoulder.
There is also plenty of focus on Julie, Derek, Jim, and the ever-mysterious Roland, but those pale in comparison to the developing shitshow between Kate and Curran.
Kate Daniels is making a strong case to claim the spot as my favorite urban fantasy (to even be in contention is saying something – this genre is filled with authors that I absolutely love).
But the story also had a compelling mystery, which gave it the perfect balance of light and dark.Magic Strikes contained an arena-style competition (and if you’ve been following my blog for any length of time you probably know how much I LOVE books with featured competitions) which sent the book from great all the way to the stratosphere as far as I’m concerned.
First read July 2014 -4 starsSecond read May 2016 - 5 ***** (what the hell was I thinking when I gave only 4 stars to this book) starsTHIS WAS AWESOME!! But Really, I must have been out of my mind when I first rated this. This book had everything. Everything. Chemistry between Kate and Curran was: "You're scared there might be something there, between you and me." And the humor is exceptional: "To answer your question, yes, you may kiss my ass.My only question is, would your kissing my ass be ob
First read July 2014 -4 starsSecond read May 2016 - 5 ***** (what the hell was I thinking when I gave only 4 stars to this book) starsTHIS WAS AWESOME!!
Chemistry between Kate and Curran was:
[Curran to Kate]................................................................
I was shipping you and Kate so badly!I just loved him, not only in this book.
It's gonna be such a long journey.This book had action, angst, pain, love, humor, everything!
It has never happened to me to raise my rating after a reread.
I'm so happy this happened.
She should have seen this coming!Kate has a number of things which occupy her mind and her life:1. The wellbeing of her new friends: -Jim betrays the pack, -Derek almost gets himself killed,-Raphael is crazy about Andrea and -Saiman has new scary enemies. They talk like human, smell like human, behave like human but what are they really? I am just happy that Kate has true friends finally.2. The dangers that her real family brings: We learn who her biological father is and what the consequences o
She should have seen this coming!Kate has a number of things which occupy her mind and her life:1.
I am just happy that Kate has true friends finally.2.
Okay, this will definitely make things more complex in the next books.3.
The dangerous, illegal Midnight Games:Full action, wonderful body conduct scenes in a primitive like arena.
Who has eaten her apple pie……or has Kate eaten it and she does not remember it?
Of course she should have seen it coming!At least the girl knows where she stands:"I can't let him kiss me again, because if he does, I'll sleep with him."
The previus two were undeniably, deliciously funny, enjoyable, quick (I read each of them in one sitting) and frustratingly cute when it came to Kate and Curran, because, let's face it, this couple here is the ultimate level of everyhing definable as frustratingly cute.But, trying to keep my hormones in check, what is it that made Magic Strikes superior to its two predecessors?•First of all, finally, finally I'm beginning to perceive these characters as real people instead of just lifeless fictional doodles.
In the previous book I had been able to grow attached only to Kate and Curran, whose personalities are so resolute and fierce as to leave you no choice but to side with and care for them.
Love this series - I finished this last night and am trying not to buy the next one right now! You're not going to get a detailed review from me on this one - if you're not loving these by now, then there's nothing I could say to convince you! :)
August 2014 Re-read:Apparently, I've never written a review of this book - though I've read it at least a couple dozen times.
In fact, I distinctly remember the last re-read I did I had plans to review ALL the books in the series.
Then I hit this book, with its humor that keeps me laughing all the damn time, and the suspense that keeps me on the edge of my seat, biting my nails.
But I can easily say that Magic Strikes would be one of them.20 July 2014: $1.99 on KindleThis is my favorite series ever!!!
5 Stars AGAIN!!!!You're so PURRRRRRR-fect, book.....I need you in my life...again.---------------------------------------------------------------------WOW!!! Kate Daniels, you're my new girl crush!!! I can't explain how refreshing and complete I feel after reading these books, and I can say that I'm a fan after reading this one.  First, I wasn't a knight; I just worked for the Order of Knights of Merciful Aid. Second, negotiation wasn't my forte. I killed things. Quickly and with much bloodshed.
I don't normally like the abundance of mythological characters or creatures of myth but Ilona Andrews does it just right...were its not too much or too little.
(A lot of the time when I don't know the history of a certain myth or mythological/religious creature I look it up.) Not only did this book satisfy what I look for in characters, but the world building, how real the places feel and how REAL the characters feel.
I love reading those scenes, when she releases Slayer to come out and play!!
I need more Kate Daniels...I need more Ilona Andrews...and seriously, my ass will not miss anymore books signings when they come to town.
I've been reading #1-3 really fast just because I needed some Curran.
I love the Games part, and I still want to kill everyone for what happened to Derek.
I think I'll re-read next one and stop.
I want Curran to court me, too!
I love the Games.
I'm completely straight, I lust for Curran damn hard, yet Kate in the Games?
And let's not get started on Curran...I'll never stop.
I just know I'll read this one again...Second re-read: 07.08.15 This series gets better and better!
I have no problem re-reading this again.Re-read: 28.07.14Man I love Curran!
I love love this series. I'm getting tired of a lot of this paranormal stuff, so many iterations, but this is a GREAT world, GREAT characters, good plotting. The writing is really good, I feel like the hardest thing to do is be SIMPLE, and this author's style is so concise and honest and believable. I really really love this series and would recommend it to anyone, men or women!
Kate & Curran are just great (I love that the romance part of the book is only a subplot so far and not taking over the whole series), the Derek situation is (view spoiler)[heartbreaking (hide spoiler)], Saiman is a total creep but I love him, Julie & Dali are both welcome additions to the cast of characters, I love Andrea, I love Raphael… As I said in a previous review I think I just love everything single character in this series, even the evil ones!What else?
This is my favorite installment of the series so far (could the finale Magic Triumphs, top it?).Original, a bit rearranged, review below*******************************I loved this book so much.
In order to save his life, she will have to juggle her position as the Order's representative, Curran (Beast lord, aka head of the Pack), the Midnight Games (an underground fighting tournament) and the mysterious forces that threaten the shapeshifters of Atlanta.The Andrews have created such an amazing panoply of great characters in the last 2 books.
In each book, we discover new facets of Kate, Curran, Derek, Jim, Andrea, Doolitle...
5-hey-kitty-kitty-stars
Re-read: Just as good, if not better, when I first read it. How is that even possible? I've also forgotten how funny this book was. Yes, it's violent and gory but there's also levity. And that I think made this book excellent!_____________________  “I was conceived, born, raised and trained with one purpose in mind: to become the best killer I could be. It’s what I do.” There are two things that I was curious about coming into this series. One, I wanted to know why Kate Daniels is so universally
Two, I wanted to know why the Curran-and-Kate pairing was deemed the OTP by so many who loved the series.
It becomes readily apparent why Kate and Curran are so loved by so many as the series progress.
By the third book, I’m now a certified Kate Daniels evangelist.
You just can’t help but love her character!
Kate Daniels, our titular heroine who now works for the Order of Knights of Merciful Aid is working against the clock to find the people who attacked one of her friends.
I love how heroine-centric this series is.
Somebody started killing shape-shifters of Atlanta and at the same time her friend who also happened to be a werewolf got into a trouble; obviously Kate could not stay away from poking her nose where it did not belong.
Before long she stumbled upon a citywide conspiracy, extremely pissed-of Curran (for those new to the series the guy is the head of shape-shifters of Atlanta and is as alpha as they come) and a lot of beings trying to kill her among others who happened to be in their way.If you like the first two books I am happy to say that this one is better.
I have read a lot of romantic scenes over the years and only rarely is an author able to capture chemistry in such a way that I can feel my toes curl but this series does it perfectly with this pair.I really liked the narration in this audiobook.
And Curran - I actually like the voice for him quite a lot in this book.
This is the third book in the series and I feel like this is a series that really does need to be read in order.
