https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/852257.Thumbprint
3.5 starsHard to even tell it was an older book (published 1936 I believe), definitely stands the test of time.
Η ιδέα αλλά κ ο τρόπος που γράφει ο Glauser παραπέμπει σίγουρα στον Μαιγκρέ του Σιμενόν κ η κοινωνική ανάλυση του μικρόκοσμου του χωριού θυμίζει τον τρόπο που ο φοβερός Βέλγος μιλούσε στο βιβλίο του Ο Τρελός του Μπερζεράκ.
Ο ήρωας του συγγραφέα είναι ένας γερασμένος επιθεωρητής λίγο πριν τη σύνταξη που προσπαθεί να βρει την αλήθεια μέσα απ'τα πολλά ψέματα που ακούει απ'τους κατοίκους.
Ο Glauser αποφεύγει τη χρήση καθαρών διαλόγων κ κινεί τα νήματα μέσα απ'τις σκέψεις του πρωταγωνιστή του, επιλογή που κάνει το βιβλίο να κυλάει με ωραίο τρόπο ακόμα κι αν η πλοκή μοιάζει σε στιγμές ότι κάνει ανεξήγητα άλματα.Ήταν για μένα ο ορισμός του comfort-read κ ίσως να συνεχίσω με τη δεύτερη ιστορία του Studer αφού έχει βγει κ στα ελληνικά απ'τις εκδόσεις Νεφέλη.
His Sergeant Studer crime novels have cult status in Europe, Germany's most prestigious crime fiction award is named after the author, and Thumbprint has now been published in English by Bitter Lemon Press.The death of a travelling salesman in the forest of Gerzenstein appears to be an open and shut case.
Studer's investigation soon splinters the glassy facade of Switzerland's tidy villages, manicured forests and seemingly placid citizens.Don't make the mistake I did when you sit down to Thumbprint, and assume that 197 pages will be a quick read.
Published in 1936 Thumbprint was the first in five Sergeant Studer novels written by the troubled Fredrich Glauser, who spent much of his life as an addict and in-and-out of prison or psychiatric wards, plus a couple of years in the French Foreign Legion.
His unsettled personal life, however, is not evident in this assured and well-plotted tale of murder and conspiracy.
And he knows how to unsettle people and prompt them into acting rashly – though sometimes they don’t respond as expected, which is almost the undoing of his investigation in this case.
The best protagonists are always flawed, and Wachtmeister Studer is no exception. I read 1 or 2 of these in the original German when I was a kid and enjoyed them, so when I saw these new translations I thought I would see how well they preserved the character of the originals. I am happy to say that they did quite well, actually. Good and gritty reads, all of them.
"Wir haben alle einen Vogel im Kopf. Manche haben sogar eine ganze Hühnerfarm"

This book is the perfect genre for me, and it is incredibly well written, *but* it also happened to cross my path at the exact right moment in life for me to be reading it.
I loved everything about this book, and cannot believe that I had never heard of Glauser before.
Just when I thought my enjoyment of this book could not be any more perfect, he introduced a character named Kräienbühl!
(Kraybill) It‘s amazing to me that a book published 82 years ago can be so enrapturing today.
Although Glauser is long gone, I’m delighted that there are 4 more books in this series.
Detektyvinė istorija tiriama seno, bet įžvalgaus policijos valdininko kalnuotose Šveicarijos vietose. Parodoksalūs herojų psichologiniai konfliktai, netikėta intriga, nekaltai apkaltinto žmogaus egzistencinė drama.
Ai dường như cũng che giấu điều gì đó và đều muốn lái công cuộc điều tra của Studer đi theo một chiều hướng nhất định.Đây là một quyển tiểu thuyết trinh thám khiến cho độc giả phải cùng suy luận, đoán xem ai là thủ phạm.
Friedrich Glauser đã mang ít nhiều nét hiện thực của xã hội thời đó vào trong quyển tiểu thuyết, mô tả một ngôi làng với những người dân của nó, với nhiều mối quan hệ rối rắm phức tạp, những xung đột ngấm ngầm cũng như những số phận con người mà người ta không muốn hé lộ ra cho người ngoài biết.
I'm so glad I finally ran across this author, after whom a German prize in detective fiction is named.
The book is set in Switzerland, and the detective might remind you a bit of Maigret, although he's very much his own personality.
He is stubborn and aloof and likes to get the lay of the land, a sense of the community in which the crime occurs, before doing much else.
It is not as cleanly plotted as most contemporary detective fiction, and that's a good thing: no formula.
A very pleasurable read for those detective fiction fans who aren't compulsive about "procedure.'
I wish I could remember why I acquired this book.
The mystery is about Sergeant Studer who arrests a murder suspect, but because of his excellent investigative skills, has determined that this young prisoner may not be the murderer.
So Studer goes to the village where the murder occurred to see if he can figure out what happened.
Studer hangs out with the locals and the family of the deceased to try and get a feel for the environment.
I'm not going to remember this book for long.
It is actually more fascinating than the book.
Glauser was a heroin addicted psychotic known for arguing with his own stool, so, yeah, if I have to choose one mystery writer to take me on a bizarre schizophrenic journey into a killer's madness, I say this guy's it.
I started reading this in the summer, but took a break to focus on Elizabeth George.
But then I started really getting sick again in the brain, because, well, that happens to people like us, and I started reading it again.
And not only is it a fantastic read, but it makes me write really, really, really, really long sentences where I'm very very very repetitive.
An intriguing read.
First time I've ever come across this author.
He writes books on characters that most likely parallel his own life, which always fascinates me (i.e. Stieg Larsson's The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo series); only this time the main character is not the one whose life the author parallels, but the main character an Inspector Studor, a very likeable kind of guy.
I enjoyed being inside the inspector's mind throughout this read.
It kept me quite interested and will definitely chase this one with another of his.
Felt the author wove a complex tale, but one I could still follow.
If I hadn't checked the copyright page, I never would have guessed that this was written 1936. It felt so modern, I wouldn't have been surprised to hear that it was written last year. Maybe that's all on account of this being a really timeless translation. It's a pretty good city-cop-goes-to-solve-a-crime-in-the-country-and-sees-how-worse-the-simple-life-really-is. And the author started writing it while in an asylum! Word up!
I did like it as it turns out. I kept thinking it was going to be a somple plot and I had it all figured out. Turns out I didn't. Considering this was written in 1936 and forensics was darn near at its conception, and the Sergeant had little to work with, he managed to put it all together to solve the case. Glauser was very good at plot twists.
I was positively surprised by this book. Having read and not liked Dürrenmatt's 'Der Verdacht' (ok, I admit, I had to read it in school...), I expected this novel to be fairly similar and unlikeable. But to the contrary, I quite enjoyed this whodunnit set in a small village in Berner Oberland, knowing it fairly well from previous holidays.
Book from 1936. the style is a little older but it brings in psychoanalysis and the detective wishes he could record confessions. it's Swiss so a little unusual as a background. i'd recommend it. not fast-paced.
F.Glauser is a cult figure in the annals of European mystery writing. The translation in the edition I read wasn't very good, but I enjoyed the description of Switzerland in the 1930s. Petty functionaries, narrow-minded villagers, the uninspired, solid food. Overall a rather somber book.
This book was translated from the original German novel, and I think that maybe made it difficult to understand. It seemed to be more of a story a high school honor student would write and be terribly proud of! I just couldn't get into it.
Good, not a literary masterpiece but a very readable detective story set in the swiss countryside. Very maigret like (not in a bad way). The protaganist is overweight, middleaged but sympathetically drawn.
una svizzera meschina e ottusa, per una volta al di sotto di qualsiasi sospetto, salvata solo dal suo indimenticabile sergente. Il prototipo di tutti i maigret del mondo
A classic German-language Swiss mystery from the '30s. Rich and atmospheric, and strongly flavored by the author's run-ins with the law and mental institutions.
Добры дэтэктыў. Галоўны герой нагадвае камісара Мэгрэ.
My second and probably last Glauser novel. Some neat insight into what 1930s Swiss cantons were like, but the plots just aren't exciting enough for me.
Christmas from my wife. She heard it recommended on NPR radio.
A bit more interesting than the book is the bio of Friedrich Glauser
