https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/151579.Covering_Islam
كتابي رقم 500كنت أريد أن يكون كتابي رقم الـ 500 مميز ومختلف فاخترت لادوارد سعيد ولم يكن أول كتاب اقر
Edward Said's writing, even if it's about a certain historical event written in a particular historical context (something of which he himself is constantly aware), is timeless in the sense that he understands certain fundamental dynamics of human interaction and nature.
This is the problem that occupied some of this book in 1980 - the lack of Islamic interpretation of its own society in Western scholarship - that is not nearly as much of an issue today.
And finally, he is able to apply these principles of interpretation and human nature to himself and realize his personal role in the process, which is critical for any analyst attempting to make sense of our world.


Excellent book that discusses how the media frames the Islamic tradition and creates authoritative voices who represent Islam on the airwaves or in print, but are not necessarily "the" authoritative voices.
The first edition of this book was written during the Iranian Revolution, so the majority of the incidents discussed refer to that or the oil shock of the 70s.
I read the second edition that was published during the 90s, so it also includes some incidents from the 80s and the Gulf War. Despite its age, a lot of the points made about the way that Muslims are framed in the media are still valid, if not more so.
There has been a lot of research into this area since this book was published, but most of those books refer back to this one, so it remains relevant.
فإذا كان تعبير "الإسلام" لا يحمل لنا من الدلالات إلا ما يقل كثيرًا عما ينبغي أن يحمله، وإذا كانت "التغطية" باستخدام هذا التعبير تغطّي، بمعنى تُخفي، أكثر مما تظهر، فأين عسانا، أو بالأحرى كيف نستطيع أن نجد المعلومات التي تَحُضُّ على أحلام جديدة بالقوة أو تُنَمِّي المخاوف وضروب التحيز القديمة؟وإذا كان تاريخ المعرفة بالإسلام في الغرب قد ارتبط ارتباطًا وثيقًا بالغزو والهيمنة، فلقد آن الأوان لقطع هذه الروابط قطعًا مبرمًا.
وحتى لو حكمنا بأشد المعايير إغراقًا في التفاؤل فلن نجد ما يثلج الصدر في هذا الاحتمال.هذا هو الكتاب الثالث بعد الاستشراق والمسألة الفلسطينية التي يتناول فيها إدوارد سعيد العلاقة بين الغرب والشرق.الكتاب مهم جدًا ويحتاج قراءة ثانية
بعد قراءة كتاب(تغطية الإسلام) لإدوارد سعيد، والذي كان يتحدث عن الغرب وأمريكا خصوصا والعالم الإسلامي 
هذا كان اول تعرف لي على ادوارد سعيد وكان ذلك حين صدور هذا الكتاب في ترجمته العربية.
وناقش الفرق بين الباحثين والدارسين والمعلقين على الاحداث الامريكان والبريطانيين و وضح ان مشاكل اكثر الامريكيين يتحدثون عن طاهرة وهم لا يعرفون لغتها بعكس البريطانيين حتى الصحفيين والمراسلين الامريكان كان هم ينقلون ما يقوله لهم المترجم لا ما هو واقع فعلاً بعكس البريطانيين الذين كان اغلب العاملين والمتخصصين في الشرق الاوسط يجيدون لغات سكانه.
بالرغم من قدم صدور الكتاب الا ان التعامل مع قضايا الاسلام والشرق الاوسط والعرب الان كثير ممن يتعامل معها بعيد كل البعد عن المعرفة التاريخية والاجتماعية والسياسية والثقافية للعالم العربي.
First published in 1981 and updated in 1997, Said's critique of the media's coverage of Islam, particularly in the Middle East, is a thought-provoking challenge to any reader's perceptions of what is reported as news from that war-torn part of the world.
An understanding of Islam based solely on Western "interest," he argues, will lead to further and protracted conflict rather than resolution of differences.Despite a carping tone that becomes irritating and a tendency to make its points with a thoroughness that seems like overkill, the book throws a searching light on how Islam is represented by news gatherers, experts, and policy makers.
Though overly polemical at points, this is still an informative book that takes much of Said's key ideas from Orientalism and applies them to media coverage of the Middle East and Islam, helping to problematize the oversimplified portrayals of both.
Many of his main arguments are pretty obvious to us now (news stories often villainize Muslims) but give a much-needed historical backing to coverage of Islam before 9/11.
I think that others I know my age tend to assume that many of our problems in essentializing Islam and stereotyping Arabs are predominantly rooted in the 9/11 attacks.
بالرغم من أن الكتاب ألف في الثمانينات، إلا أن كل ما فيه من حقائق لازالت سارية المفعول في عصرنا الحالي.كتاب نقدي بامتياز يحلل مشكل العلاقة المضطربة بين الشرق و الغربما أعجبني في الكتاب هو أنه فتح عيني على معلومات قيمة لم أكن أعرفها من قبل. اختلاف علاقة الشرق مع أوروباعن علاقته بأمريكا، العوامل الداخلية في أمريكا التي ساهمت تعزيز الرؤية المغلوطة عن العالم الإسلامي، الدور المحوري للإعلام في التحكم في قناعات شعب بأكمله!الكتاب فتح شهيتي لقراءة كتب أخر لإدوارد سعيد.
This book completely changed how I look at the headlines and news stories and reveals what a multi-faceted racist conflation the word "ISLAM" is in the mouths of western journalists. Also revealing is how much foreign policy is based on the shitty analysis of mis informed journalists.
ربما لم أتحمس للكتاب ،لأن أغلب ما يقوله ،أتبناه مسبقا ،فاصبح إحساسي وكأني أقرأ فقط لكي أكون قارئا ،ف
Much like in Noam Chomsky's Manufacturing Consent, the conclusions that Edward Said draws in Covering Islam should be no big shocker to anyone who thinks critically about how American media operate. Simply put, racism and Islamophobia play a role in most media portrayals of the Islamic world, although not nearly as great a role as ignorance, laziness, arrogance, and the grand jump to conclusions. Really, Said is doing the lord's work-- pointing out just how naked certain emperors really are.
سأحاول أن أكتب عن الكتاب أكثر من انطباع .. لما يفتح الله طبعا :)
A really good book on the media coverage of the Middle East And Islamic countries.
What they are fighting on behalf of is an irrational hatred of the secular present.The arrogance of these claims is breathtaking.To call such ideas hostile and irrational is not to overstate the case.To demonize and dehumanize a whole culture on the grounds that it is 'enraged' at modernity is to turn Muslims into the objects of a therapeutic, punitive attention.If attempts to understand the detail of Arab Islamic life are so unsuccessful, what then of political and historical information?Even though the pun in 'covering Islam' will be obvious to any reader proceeding through the book...With approximately 300 reporters in Teheran during the first days of the hostage crisis, and without a Persian-speaker among them, it was no wonder that all the media reports coming out of Iran repeated essentially the same threadbare accounts of what was taking place.
This is to say that the media's Islam, the Western scholar's Islam, the Western reporter's Islam, and the Muslim's Islam are all acts of will and interpretation that take place in history, and can only be dealt with in history as acts of will and interpretation.' p/41'When, for example, we discuss the "islamic" revolution that brought down the Pahlevi regime, we ought to say nothing about whether or not the revolutionaries were 'really' Muslims in their faith; but we can say something about their conception of Islam as it pitted them self-consciously- Islamically, so to speak--against a regime they viewed as anti-Islamic, oppresive, tyrannical.' p/41'We do not live in a natural world: things like newspapers, news, and opinions do not occur naturally; they are 'made', as the result of human will, history, social circumstances, institutions, and the conventions of one's profession.
This book did not really teach me anything new. It was all about western conspiracy stories, i would not presume that it's not happening, the thing is i've heard them so many times already. There are many explanations for what's going on in the world and i need to hear something more elaborate than just diabolizing a side or another. As much as i'm concerned, it was an okey read that illustrates some classic arab conclusions..
الكثير من الصحف والمقالات والأخبار والمقابلات عرضها إدوارد سعيد لتوضيح دور الإعلام الغربي في التحكم بالوعي العام اتجاه قضية ما أو حدث راهن، والإسلام كان قضية هذا الكتاب. فهمه يحتاج إلى توسع أكثر في فكر إدوارد وربما قراءة الاستشراق يكون مساعدا لذلك.
A book originally written in 1980 as a criticism of mass media and the academic "experts" on their covering of "Islam".
Ask anyone who has been to a Muslim Country how much of "Islam" he would have seen in the actions of the people and you will very quickly realise the fallacy of a monolithic and unified islamic peoples are the world.This book would have definitely been bigger has Edward Said lived to read literature by the like of Sam Harris and Richard Dawkins.

وعلى الجانب الآخر كانت الدراسة تمس أمريكا خصوصاً من الغرب عموماً كمثال نقاشي حول الإسلام وإعلام أمريكا وسياساتها.
فبشكل عام ستبدو الدراسة في أغلبها هي بين إيران وأمريكا كممثلين للإسلام والغرب.
وفي الدراسة ذاتها يقدم إدوارد كيف يتم لمس الإسلام ودراسته من قبل الغرب وتناوله من قبل الإعلام وتحليله سياسياً ..
ويشير إلى أن الغرب نظروا متأخرين إلي قيمة الإسلام وتحليله فكرياً وحضارياً ..
أو تتمسك بنظرة معينة وتبني عليها الكثير.وفي جانب آخر يقدم إدوارد أن النظريات الحضارية كثير منها مبني على التوقعات بسبب القدم أو عدم توفر الأدوات وكيف تغدو حقائق يتم تناولها كمسلمات قد تهضم حقوق كثير من الحضارات.
يُعد كتاب تغطية الإسلام الكتاب الثالث و الأخير من سلسلة ثلاثيّة إدوارد سعيد الذي حاول فيها معالجة العلاقة الحديث القائمة بين عوالم الإسلام و العرب و الشرق من جهة و بين الغرب و فرنسا و بريطانيا و لاسيّما الولايات المتحدة من الجهة الأخرى.
وكتاب الاستشراق لإدوارد أكثرها عموميّة و من ثم يأتي كتابه: المسألة الفلسطينية لتاريخ حالة الصراع بين السكان العرب الأصليين و بين الحركة الصهيونية.
أما في هذا الكتاب: " تغطية الإسلام " فموضوعه معاصر تمامًا - كما يذكر كل ذلك في مقدمته - فهو يتناول ردود الفعل الغربية لاسيّما الأمريكية، تجاه العالم الإسلامي.
/تحليل عميق جداً و صريح جداً و أنصح به بالطبع.
the title says it all - but now another book is required to continue where the late Mr Said left off - "how readers/viewers' worldview built by these reportings color the rest of the coverage about the islamic world" and another one "how these reportings create self-image of the muslim world - some of which communities grow up with those news reports."
Said states current(70s, 80s, 90s) media coverage of Islam is mostly restricted to elucidating events of crisis only, typically just as it may directly relate to western interests.
Said alternates between errors committed by the western media out of prejudicial ignorance(explaining present events with jaundiced interpretations of values and history from a distant past, or an inexcusable inability to speak the language, or a lack of knowledge as to what is actually happening in the society reported on), and the more blatant pandering to businesses, government policy, or immediate commercial interests.
a must read for anyone who wants to understand the middle east in the media.
There are three issues I take with the text, despite its important message.1) Repetition of Points: The number of times we are reminded of the unbalanced Israeli-Palestinian situation, or the constant 'us-vs-them-ism' of the US media makes the text seem more like moral exhortation than analysis.
3) Lack of Constructive Explanation: What I mean by this is that, whereas Said devotes plenty of time to discussing how the US media distorted the picture of the Iranian hostage crisis, I felt he did not devote enough time to discussing the reality of the situation.
This book is important.
Back in 2016, I was doing a research paper on Iranian politics where I try to confirm with the west and try not to criticize the same for apparent errors in policy making.
After knowing what I know now, I am grateful that the publishing of the research paper was shelved and I have a chance to correct the grotesque inaccuracies.
A toxic cocktail (label it as nationalism) of the above elements presented by an Ivy League scholar can easily garb the distasteful policies of the West.
