https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/545686.The_Gangs_of_Chicago
A highly engrossing, if apocryphal, account of the history of crime in Chicago dating from the early small town days when defendants were tried in a carpentry shop to Capone, the Valentine's Day Massacre and the heyday of Chicago's gangland era.Among the many wonderful anecdotes in Gangs of Chicago are the story of a 400lb madam who eluded capture by the police simply by being too large to exit the doors of her brothel and a dedicated policeman who, because of his miniature size, forced arrestees to give him a piggyback ride to the police station.While a lot of the stories seem too good to be true (and that's not a bad thing), taken in composite, you still get a pretty good sense of what the streets of Chicago were like during much of the 19th century.
Great chronicle of Chicago from its growth out of the swamps through the 1920s. Interesting depiction of the development of crime, the inadequate police force, the political corruption, and the reformers who fought to stop the sin that the city had become. I lived in Chicago for a year and it is still the same city in a lot of ways; full of ploys, vices, and peril.
The book isn't told like a traditional story. It jumps around based on events rather than timelines.
When I picked this one up I was itching for an interesting book highlighting the mobster and gangland scene of Chicago.
Through the first 2/3 of this book, I appreciated seeing the factors and circumstances that gave birth to an underworld that feasted on the rapid growth of Chicago.
However, since the book was published in 1940, I feel a lot of the mobster history was incomplete; leaving me feeling unsatisfied.
The exhaustive examination of the Chicago underworld from the start gave a great background, but a more summarized lead-up would have been preferred by me.

An outstanding history of Chicago's bloody past. This is a must-read for anyone who's convinced himself that we live in violent, crime-ridden times and if we could only go back to "the good old days" we'd all be better off. Turns out the good old days were overrun with hookers, pimps, "professional rapists", white slavers, serial murderers, drug dealers and addicts, violent muggings, extortion ... The good old days? HA!
I picked this book up at a used book sale. The original copyright is 1940. It was a wonderful read about the underworld of Chicago starting around 1850 up to the rise of Al Capone. There are some amusing drawings and great old photographs. I find it rather hard to believe the city survived all the murders, corruption, bombings, gunfights, prostitution . . . well, the list is endless. I strongly suggest this book to anybody interested in the history of crime.
I like Chicago history, and I picked up this book because it had a section on HH Holmes (y'know, the creepy serial killer madman from Devil in the White City?) and he fascinates me and gives me creepy chills.Anyway, the set up of the book is nice, you can flip around to different sections as you like, and thus I mostly read about the murders and prostitutes. Apparently I am not as pure of heart as I like to think.
It was definitely interesting, but the pacing was whacked. It would mention 3 or 4 generations of gangsters in one paragraph, then spend 40 pages on a certain person or group of people. It was hard to remember all of the information when it referenced it later in the book. Read only if you really love Chicago gangsters. Otherwise, save your time.
Originally written in 1940, this reads a bit antiquated, but provides a good overview of organized crime and political corruption in 1830s to 1930s Chicago. This is a book for Chicago history enthusiasts, and (Sahara alert) reads a bit dry at times. Lots of names, dates, places.
Informative but pretty dry. Was tough to finish when 70% of the book details top brothels and prostitution (not as exciting as it sounds). I was expecting more detail and coverage of the Mafia , Capone etc..
A really thorough book covering many of the Chicago legends that I heard about growing up here but didn't know the facts of their evolution. I recommend the book as a must read for anyone interested in early Chicago history.
First published in 1940, this incredibly thorough book covers organized crime in Chicago from 1830 through Capone's reign and reveals that the relationship between politics and crime is nearly as old as the city itself.
Very dated, but offers a pretty comprehensive look at Chicago gangs during the early days of the city. Some of the terms and words use are from the author's time - 1940's and due to the time of authorship, Asbury gives the reader some pretty salacious details - without being too racy.
Extremely interesting.
my mum picked this up for me in a charity shop. so far it's ok, it's had really mixed reviews but we shall see...
Good if you like more historical books. Chicago was a pretty crazy place!
This was really interesting. The title was a little on the teasy side compared to the actual content but there truly was a lot of good information inside. Worth the read.
