https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/818796.Buff
The collection of stories, originally published in 1921, is a little spotty overall.
The strength of all Terhune’s books is how he writes his dogs.
They are not overly anthropomorphized, but are given emotions and ability to reason that are (for dog-lovers) not a stretch of the imagination, as are their relationships with their people.
The title story is terrific and heart-wrenching, with a little bit of everything: heroism, loyalty, criminal acts, life-threatening situations, bloodthirsty revenge, love, romance, and pathos.
The others were okay to pretty bad, and the author loves to wallow in detailed descriptions of dog fights, which spoiled several stories for me.
4 stars for the fine writing style!
I love Mr. Terhune's way with words.
I enjoy reading about dogs, but it seems like so many dog books have sad endings.
So, it was nice to read this one and find that not every dog book ever written has to be depressing ;-) This book is a collection of several dog stories; most of them didn't really stand out for me, plot-wise, but as I said, I do like the style, and I did enjoy them.
Colllies are the starring breed here, but one or two stories feature other dogs as well.
I loved it. What a great collection of stories.
It is not a great story, but it is decent enough, and at least makes good use of the dog as the hero.Chums is primarily about a boy, the dogs are almost incidental, but it is one of my favorite stories in this collection because it is rather different from so many of Terhune's stories, instead of being a mild rewrite of one I've already read by now (I've read several of his dog centered books at this point).
Enjoyed the stories, and the hero dogs always come to a good end (no, I'm not marking that as a spoiler. If you're a dog person, you want to know that ahead of time). However, there are a few instances of historical racism, and a few scenes of dog injury and dogs fighting (not dogfighting per se).
I reread this book now and then. It's been part of my life almost as long as I can remember. Straightforward stories about noble dogs and somewhat less noble humans that consistently bring me to tears. I left this book at my parents' home so that they can introduce the next generation to these stories. Maybe it's time I reread it again myself.
It was okay, don't know why but I got bored with the stories 3/4's the way through it and quit reading, thus I felt it was worth 3 stars. Not a bad writer, just maybe the stories were a bit predictable to me.
More from my dad's book shelf.
This was a wonderful book writing in the 1920's about collies. Loved it!
X2
Read this book for some wonderful dog stories..Do not expect it to be a balanced account - it is written by those who see their Collies as God's gift to mankind
