https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144354.An_Outline_of_Philosophy
They only need pens and paper :PWhen the role of science is to find what is Truth and Real, the philosophy just provides various options about how to see things.
And, in the whole book Mr. Russel tried to convince that philosophy only makes sense when it only sees things in a scientific way.
Since the book was written in 1927, a lot of scientific discoveries are missing from Mr. Russel but the core ideas about how science works are still same.
Little gems like this pepper the text.The book is divided into four main sections dealing with the external and perceptual world of the mind, the physical world and causality, the inner world of the mind and the Universe and man's place in it.
He admits that solipsism and other such constructs are logically unassailable, but chooses not to accept them - the idea of a real, phenomenal Universe is not logically necessary but logically consistent and basically sensible.This is basically a sensible man, and a sensible book.
One of the short work of Russel targetting mainly general reader.
Here Russel tried to bring the connection of philosophy, psychology, science, especially in his days.
To construct a comprehensive view on the subject like philosophy one needs to scrutinize the capacity to which extend one can explore by which method.
That is what the book strived to do.It was very much engrossed in the process how we know something when we say we know from the context of science, philosophy, psychology.But Russel seemed to lost in the arguments, sometimes unnecessarily elaborated some topic which is obvious.
Had a tough time reading Russel's long sentences.
In 1927, a publisher Russell says he would pay $ 5,000 if he wrote a 100,000-word philosophical book. Russell accepts the offer and writes a book in 3 months. Human beings are questioned at the level of atomic structure, from the outside, from inside to the physical world, with the discoveries of time. While it is interesting that the atomic structure and electron movements are studied and interpreted philosophically at the level of Bohr atomic theorists, those who read Russell's other books are going to recapture in some parts.
An incredibly clear explanation for the hardest concepts to explain, those that we use every day to define reality but we didn't pay enough attention to even consider what they mean, what is consciousness, what is though, what is memory, learning, language, emotions, inference, etc Bertrand transport us in a structured even poetic way into the purpose and basis for philosophy, giving us a good stand inside the universe and our challenges to understand it
One of the great pleasures in reading Bertrand Russell for me was when he discusses the role of philosophy in a society where science has been the approach to finding out what is real and true in our universe.
And that's where Russell's Outline of Philosophy comes in.Although much has changed since this book was written in 1927, some of the philosophical questions Russell examines are still worthwhile considering given what we've learnt about the world around us.
Philosophy becomes important when we realize that when we ask a really precise question, we come to uncertainty of some kind, and so we depend on larger 'philosophical' to make sense of our world sometimes.
(The Introduction actually explains that the book is based on a first-year introduction to philosophy class that he taught, so it's very much aimed at the beginner.) But in addition to that, Russell's ideas of epistemology are very much rooted in science.
Reading this chapter taught me that Russell knew about nuclei and electrons, photons, quantum theory, isotopes.
I found it fascinating to read a (very accomplished) discussion of atomic theory weaving around this quite major missing detail.I'm sure I'll come back to that chapter to amaze myself again.
So, the book opens with a nice introduction to some of the philosophical doubts and develops into an analysis of psychological dynamics of human understandings; language and memory is regarded as most crucial in this section of the book.
He ends this section with an analysis of human insight of this apparent reality.
In the next section, the discussion moves to an intesional analysis of human self and learning.
I recommend this book to all those who enjoy thinking about how mice learn to escape a maze in lesser time in each successing attempt.
Back in its day when the relevant new sciences were being discussed and worldviews altered to accommodate, this book would have been quite a revelation for most people.
Today it is quite dated in some areas and the language a little too technical and wordy to be an easy read, plus the science has moved on since the 1930s (?) when this was first released.
The core ideas are still interesting and I think, the dated science aside, that this would be an interesting book for someone who hasn't spent a lot of time pondering the nature of reality in light of last centuries bold scientific strides.
The only thing wrong with this book is that Russell tackles such a wide array of topics that one chapter heading itself could be expanded into a full length novel.
A scientific opinion is one which there is some reason to believe is true; an unscientific opinion is one which is held for some reason other than its probable truth.–Bertrand Russell --
Precisely what the title reads. A true perspective on scientific philosophy
Enjoying the lucid writing style and insights.
