https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126830.Honey_for_a_Child_s_Heart
I bought this strictly for the reading list at the back of the book. I had no expectation for the actual text of the book. This book has surprised me in every way! Gladys Hunt and I think just alike about reading and raising kids. This book encouraged me and spurred me on to make Bible reading a consistent part of our daily lives.
This book was mysteriously sent to me by an amazon seller with 'The Hero With a Thousand Faces' by Joseph Campbell.
I didn't order it and it came with no explanation, so I had to read it.
Obviously.
It turns out that the purpose of 'Honey for A Child's Heart' is to promote reading to children as a positive and worthwhile pastime.
Cool.
Too bad the message is ruined by Hunt's view that being gay is an "unacceptable" and "inappropriate" subject for books or discussions with children.
She also denounces divorce and tragic events as unsuitable, and condemns video games and television.
The author is a passionate proponent of reading and the importance of introducing it to a child early on.
If appreciation of beauty and the gift of articulation are meaningful to you, then I suggest that exposure to great writing is a necessity.It's sometimes a choice; reading aloud to a child for a half hour, or calling a friend on the phone.
Life is full of choices, and I find myself impatient with people who cry 'lack of time'.
We make time for what we think is important, and in doing so we teach our children about what things really matter in life."
This book was a lifeline to me when I was a new Mama.
I knew that I wanted to read the "best" books to my children, but had no idea where to start.
I had my children late in life, and I could recall only a few classics from my own childhood.
Gladys Hunt writes a compelling case for keeping a literature rich environment, and then gives wonderful book lists categorized by age.
I have given this book away as a baby shower gift many times.
It is invaluable for starting new moms on the path to reading with their children.
The first half of this book is comprised of simple facts that are well known about books, but it's beautifully worded. The best part of this book is the second half which is an awesome list of books categorized into different ages and for different seasons. I've used this book to pick out gifts for all of my nieces and nephews with corresponding toys to match their books!! It was timely for this season!!
I read the 2nd edition around 1983 as a young mother when my husband and I were figuring out the role of children’s literature in our home. This book was most impacting! We often give the new editions to new parents today.
This book includes a phenomenal book list for read alouds as a family and books for your children to enjoy, separated by age and genre. So helpful!!
Fantastic essays about why we should read to our children... and not just any books, but the great classic literature of the past (and present). Loved this.
For a website with book reviews for parents, see here.Chapter 4: Fantasy and Realism (read on July 30–31, 2016)55: Alice applies her current situation to her own life [reading the story you're in; cf.
firmly established realism" (398–99)]; less harm when reading about danger (as opposed to danger in real life); pleasure of reading good stories [cf.
Wilson's Writers to Read] to see the second meaning56: real/unreal; "Good fantasy helps us see reality in unreality, credibility in incredibility"57: psychology of happy endings (in a book titled The Uses of Enchantment—cf.
Herbert poem]); "Good literature should always make life larger"59–61: fantasy changes lives61: fantasy is not just for children (see p.
This guide to teaching children to love books is divided into two sections: the philosophy of how to teach your children to love good books, and book recommendations by age and subject.
Though the back cover says nothing of Christianity, the author approaches the subject with a Christian background and assumes the reader does as well.
I really enjoyed a lot of the author's insights and plan to use her recommendations as my little girl grows.
I will be paying more attention to the authors of children's literature, and be sure to include poetry in our library, thanks to her suggestions.
Great reference on WHY it's important to introduce good books to your children/family with an extensive checklist in the back with author-selected "good books." I'll be pulling this one out frequently.
This is the book that caused me to fall in love with finding books.
I have the third edition.
Children suspect more is present than the actual story, and because there is little space between the real and the unreal world in a child's mind, they reach across with amazing ease and begin to ferret out the truth.Another piece of wisdom from this section:The most subtle and profound ideas are often found in books written for children.
But there are so many advantages of reading poetry for kids, in learning beautiful words, discovering vivid images, and the rhythm and rhyming of many poems is supposed to be a huge help to dsylexic readers!In Chapter 6, the Pleasure of a Shared Adventure: The best teaching we have done in our family has been through reading the Bible and good books aloud together.
I have read this book over and over to become familiar with the author's and titles of good books and to learn the importance of selecting good/living books.Re-read again and love it just the same. This is the book that started my education of selecting books for my children. Before I knew about goodreads.com, I would mark in this book the date that we had read a particular book or put a mark if we had the book and would read it as the children grew. It's fun to see the dates and remember reading them with my kiddos..krb 2/3/16
Excellent thoughts and a wide variety of book lists available with information such as, Newberry Winner, Caldecott Winner, etc. I have so many sections written out for my own benefit that I might as well have skipped note taking and just re-read the book when I want to be inspired again. I borrowed this from the library, but recently added it to my Amazon cart as well.
What a resource! The book lists don't even begin until page 110! The beginning of the book is a wealth of wisdom about the value of reading as a family - including daily reading of the Bible. Love this book and I'm glad we bought it. We also purchased "Honey for a Teens Heart" for later.
From infancy to young adulthood, this book helps you choose the best books for your children. From a Christian perspective, as well....this book has also come in handy for suggestions for great books for myself!
Insightful, inspiring, well written, and resourceful. Highly, highly recommend. At times I felt like she repeated herself but overall I thoroughly enjoyed it. I don't remember being "guided" through literature in this way and I hope to do so for my kids!
This book reviews children's stories and segregates them by appropriate age. It also talks about giving the gift of reading to your child. I have given it as a baby shower gift several times since I first received it. It is a must for every reading parent!
I love this book. I like to take it with me to the library when I'm looking for books for my children. Her perspective on reading is great, and I love the booklists.
This is a good one to take to the bookstore with you to help you choose quality literature for your children.
Fantastic resource for read-alouds broken down by age! I especially love that each book on the list has a couple of sentences about it, so we can see what we're in the mood for and go from there.
I refer to this book often especially if i'm heading to the library and don't know what to check out for the kids. This gives you book lists by age! Very helpful.
Talks about the importance of reading to your children and gives many book recommendations.
Sweet book about how important and GOOD it is to read aloud to your children. She also puts her favorites in the last portion of the book. Enjoyable.
Wonderful book that lists great books to read to kids!
This book is an excellent resource for parents who want to guide their children to great reading - christian based. I love it.
The first half talks about the importance of reading and the benefits of it. The second half of this book has a wonderful book lists for kids by age with a brief summary about each book.
A fantastic resource for anyone who loves reading to their kids.
