https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24937.Wicked
I got WICKED: THE GRIMMERIE for Christmas two years ago, and I sat there on the couch reading the whole thing while everyone else was trying to talk to me.
Needless to say, I am a HUGE fan of Wicked the musical.
I also got tickets again that year.
The Grimmerie is something that every Wicked fan should have.
For me, the Original Broadway Cast was the best, and I was very interested in how they felt about the musical.
I thought that that was wicked interesting.
Every die-hard Wicked fan should own this.
It makes your experience with the musical complete.
I got this one from my brother after watching the show for the second time. the first time I watched it was the summer of 2012 in London. The second was on the 21st of December 2012 and in the Netherlands. 17th of October 2014. 16th of November 2016.24th of October 2017
Or at least there was a lot of stuff I hadn't noticed.Other things I learned from this book:- Gregory Maguire is not really a fan of the ending.
[Why is it that you can paint a main character green but yet having an actor who is not Caucasian is so difficult?]- Broadway musicals go through a really long production process, including lots of readings for small audiences (with real actors who might or might not end up actually playing those parts) and then real unofficial performances, where they look at what's working for the audience and what isn't and change stuff.
Glinda might want knowledge to an extent, but Elphaba is the one who really craves it.(I have a couple rants like this, but let's just do one Elphaba trait and move on)Elphaba: "Your friends would describe you as a rebel."Listen to the song "The Wizard and I".
For example, her heart tells her not to trust the Wizard's fraud, and her mind works out the logic behind his phony smile.
The only people who would say that Elphie is a rebel are the ones who do not understand her motivation.Again, aside from the quiz, I am in total love with this book.
What a gorgeous, gorgeous book- everything about it is just beautiful, from the thick, softly-cushioned hard cover, to the rich colour design inside to the texture of the paper.
I love companion books to films, TV shows (and, I suppose, theatre!).
I love hearing how plots got developed, reading about how actors approach characters.
This covers so much, and is a necessary piece for an big fan of Wicked.I would have liked to have read more about the San Francisco portion of creating the musical.
But still, given what this book offers, it's not that big a grumble.Ahh, beauty- so lovely!
Fantastic insight into the wonderful world of Oz ehm Wicked. Unfortunately not the full libretto was put into the Grimmerie which was disappointing. Nevertheless a must read for every fan of the musical.
I'll be the less than popular reviewer on this one. Sure I've heard the play is terrific but I thought the bk was just weird and a little creepy.
AMAZING (obviously). Being a drama student, this book is everything I dreamt it would be. Inspiring, insightful, funny, charming, clever, just AMAZING. It has everything a Wicked fan would want. Copies of original draft scores, quotes form Gregory, Idina, Kristin and everyone. It has explanation of stage set (some magic may be spoilt!), costume, scenography, sound, lighting, everything. The bound up is beautiful and is just like Elphie's Grimmerie. A great gift for any Wicked fan and a MUST read for any musical theatre lover!
Did a little re-read, because I'm in the musical mood. I love Wicked the musical and this is just an awesome book for everyone who loves Wicked. I love the photos and the interviews with Kristin and Idina. Also the set drawings are amazing. Yay!
In the first part of the book Wicked by Gregory Maguire, the witch is spying on the girl Dorthy.
But the Lion, Tinman, Scarecrow, and Dorthy, were gossiping about the with and how she was an abused child and that how she was so wicked.
But within that the witch is in the tree not being able to see the red dazzling shoes that Dorthy was wearing.
She wanted to go after her, but she was not able to because it started raining .
But she ends up getting upset because Frex saying the devil is coming on the day of the child's birth.
The book by Maguire is the original novel on which the musical WICKED was based; THE GRIMMERIE is a companion piece to the musical with behind-the-scenes information for fans of the show.
Just to clear things up!As a huge fan of the musical WICKED (bordering on an obsession, really), how could I possibly not love THE GRIMMERIE?
The book gives a lot of insight into the process of creating the miracle that is WICKED, a peek into the brains of the masterminds behind the musical, and several fun facts and interviews.
THE GRIMMERIE is definishly (see what I did there?) a must-have for every WICKED fan!
This book is about a devil child that is born green. In this story she is mistreated and borderline abused throughout this book. She starts as a little girl who had birth defects that couldn’t be fixed. She grows up believing that she was evil because no matter what she did, people wouldn’t acknowledge her unless she was being evil. Because of all of that she turns out the way everyone expects. I would not recommend this book to anyone. The first reason being that the ending is pretty predictabl
In this story she is mistreated and borderline abused throughout this book.
I would not recommend this book to anyone.
The first reason being that the ending is pretty predictable after you read the first half of the book.
Another reason why this book isn’t good is because of the thing that completely throws her over the edge of good and evil.
My third reason is that this book seems to start the same way every dark/ good vs.
evil story starts.
It starts with some form of abuse and I just feel that this book isn’t good.
I had read Wicked before there was any audible talk of turning it into a musical.
When I found out about the musical, I was excited and intrigued.
I couldn't imagine how they would turn such a rich and layered book into a Broadway show.
The Grimmerie gives an excellent glimpse into how they managed to do exactly that.
The book includes the text of the musical as well as essays on each major song performed.
This book makes me wish I could travel back in time to see Wicked with its original Broadway cast.
OMG I absolutely LOOOOVED the musical and this book was an amazing introduction to how the musical started and has some wonderful information about the whole musical in general. The pictures are fantastic, the book looks super cool, and just reading about the musical makes me feel a just a little bit closer to the characters, the musical itself, and to the world of Oz. Definitely a worthwhile buy for a fan and it looks super fancy!
YAY!, and finally, some years later, I've finished this amazing book, the book all Wicked fans MUST have, I've bought it when I went to London with a friend to see this musical, I am so much in love with it, Kerry Ellis was superb in the role of Elphaba. If you are Wicked fan you should also read the book of Gregory Maguire, the musical is based on his novel.
191 pagesOkay, I know you're going to start thinking I'm obsessed - and maybe I am a bit (with the MUSICAL!) - but this is the book I should've started with. Full of pictures and stories about the development of this story inspired by but separate from Maguire's book... I loved it! It made me relive my time in the theater and learn even more about the writers, producers and characters.
I absolutely love this show. First of all it is MUCH better than the book. This book give you the behind the scenes look at how it was made and the idea came about. It talks about all aspects of the show and how they were developed. This is a must have for all Wicked fans.
I LOVE the musical so this book was a no-brainer as it explores behind the scenes of the musical including actors, costumes, writers and set. a must-have for Wicked fans! I borrowed it, so now, of course, I must have it!
Who can say if I've been changed for the better, but because I knew you, I have been changed for good
I picked this up after having read Maguire's Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West and seeing the Broadway musical with just the intention of admiring the pictures; I'm not that into theater.
I read the whole thing, learning much about theater in general, getting extra literary analysis of both the original book and many of the choices made in the creation of the musical.
Now I'm thinking it makes more sense to see a performance like this many, many times.
Very glad I finally had the opportunity to purchase and read this book, as I've wanted to for a long, long time.
Wicked has been one of my favorite musicals since I first saw it nearly a decade ago, and this book provided a fascinating look into how the musical came to be.
As someone involved in theatre, I love looking into how shows (especially shows as large as this one) are built, and this book showed so many inner workings, and pointed out so many things I never realized.
I would love to have the full text of the show in this book.
This book tells you so much about the musical. Books like this used to be called coffee table books. This is a book you will pick up time and time again to read a different section of the book. From the creation of the musical, to the creator and director. This book tell about the actor in the first run of Wicked and their parts in the making of the wonderful Musical.
Absolutely fascinating read for anyone obsessed with Wicked! (or any musical really). Tells you everything you could want to know about how it all got started and the process a musical goes through to make it on Broadway. And the pictures are AWESOME!
I LOVE Wicked and I’m so happy that I finally got around to finish this companion book. It is absolutely stunning and I loved seeing all of the behind the scenes work that went into making the musical so wonderful. I would highly recommend to anyone who loves Wicked! 💚
I've seen the musical twice now and really loved all the backstage information this book gives. During the sections talking about the songs I enjoyed listening to the actual songs while reading about then. The story / screenplay at the end was so entertaining to read I forgot to eat lunch xD
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
I may be in the minority, but I enjoyed the book much more than the production.
YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY YAY!
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
