https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7093.Never_Call_Retreat
Now that I'm at the end of the trilogy (this one covers post-Antietam to Appomattox), I continue to be in awe of Bruce Catton and I think I've figured out why.1) He excels at putting you in the time and place.
Some readers may object that he doesn't get too much into the details of the dramatic high point itself, but I think that Mr. Catton respected his readers enough to assume that they are already aware of the basic outline of the story and the details of such battles as Gettysburg or the Wilderness.3) His characters are not men of marble, but men of clay.
He is Southern-flavored, not grossly but consistently, and the reader will hear stirring music when Catton writes about Lee, Forrest, Stuart and the rest of the gray knights (Union generals, even Grant, are only grudgingly praised, and their achievements are usually attributed to luck where the Confederates are cited for skill).
He mentions several times the multimillion-dollar schemes to repay the South for its lost slaves, never once raising the idea that the slaves themselves might have been due something for their stolen lives.A book like "Battle Cry of Freedom" will give you more of the sinews of wartime, and less of the romance.
At the time this series was published Catton was the editor of the "American Heritage" and had already published a number of books on the Civil War. He won the Pulitzer for history in 1954 for A Stillness at Appomattox.
That book is the first volume in this series and starts with the 1860 Democratic Party convention and goes through the First Battle of Bull Run.I have read some opinions that Bruce Catton is dated and reflects an outmoded viewpoint on the Civil War. IMO he is an author who is definitely worth reading.
New Year's Day 1863 in the Western theater began with the back and forth between these men's Southern and Federal troops during the Battle of Stone's River, a conflict which turned from a surefire Confederate victory into what was considered to ultimately be a technical loss.
Despite the stealth attacks of Confederate cavalry leader Joe Wheeler, Rosecrans stared defeat in the face and, according to Lincoln, gave the Federals a "hard-earned victory which, had there been a defeat instead, the nation could scarcely have lived over."This western theater "W" was followed up by possibly the biggest one of all: Grant's siege and taking over of the Southern fort at Vicksburg.
This is the final volume in Catton's Civil War history trilogy.
I would have liked to have it cover the actual aftermath of the war, Reconstruction, and so forth, but that wasn't the area the author was aiming to explore, so I can't really fault him for not writing a fourth volume dedicated to that.Overall, it's an excellent trilogy and I recommend it highly.
This is definitely a series of books I will return to for a second (and eventually third, and fourth) listen, I think.
Now I just need to find a comparable book covering the pre and post-war periods.
I was lucky enough to have had several excellent professors who taught Civil War history. I only with Bruce Catton had been one of them.
Found his entire series on the ivil War captivating, extremely readable
There seemed to be less detail in this than the previous books in the trilogy. Each of them covered about 1 year; this covers the last 2 years of the war.
The book is about history. But it is so touching. The narrates are very good. The author writes it with passion and clarity.
I love Bruce Catton. I would consider this trilogy more for the well read civil war buff, Catton covers all of the background politics behind the action.
I could anything to what you already know!
This is the third and final volume of a trilogy that is very large but is the right amount of detail for me. I am very interested in the civil war is the reason. The work is more than 50 years old but I doubt that anything significant has turned up from research in that period of time.
The final volume in Catton's three volume series on the Civil War, my only complaint was that it seemed to fly by too quickly.
Otherwise, it doesn't disappoint in any way - it covers all the whos, the whats and the wheres in a comprehensive and insightful but consistently engaging way.
Keep in mind that the book is focused on the "big picture" military, political and economic themes of the war - those looking for explorations of how the war impacted specific communities, areas or aspects of life should look elsewhere.

The last volume in the series. A great read and a wonderful background to the politics and diplomacy of a very complex series of events. It places the military campaigns against that context and I understand so much more about the events and the personalities than I did before I started. It is the military aspects of the conflict that fascinate me and I will approach the history of the conflicts significant battles now better informed. A great piece of written history N accomplishment, required reading for anyone with an interest
Volume Three of Catton’s Civil War historical trilogy maintains the level of excellence of the first two. A lot of books have been written about the battles of the Civil, as if the armies stood around for weeks or months, then randomly decided to fight. Catton ties together the military, political, and social considerations in a series that brings as much sense as can be derived from such a universal cluster. Released in 1965, looking back 100 years, some of the parallels to what’s going on today are eerie.
Final volume of the Civil War history. It tkaes the reader from the period of late 1862 and the Battle of Fredricksburg through Lee's surrender and Lincoln's assassination but leaves the question of reconstruction alone. He only hints at how difficult it will be and how unique a position Grant and Sherman left the country in - that is, an honorable peace (for the defeated) that really made it unlikely that there would be continued guerilla fighting in the years ahead. Had they been more vindictive that might have been an end to the Republic.
Although this book is about 50 years old, it is still one of the best studies of the American Civil War ever completed. It is extremely easy to read and provides excellent insights not only into the major battles of the last 18 months of the war but of the political and social history of the time and the immense challenges facing the unified nation in 1865 especially concerning the newly freed slaves. Highly recommended.
Excellent history of the Civil War. The key thing I learned was that Lee surrendering at Appomattox did not end the conflict. The Union had to get the other Confederate armies to surrender as well. Didn't realize that Lee wasn't in command of their entire Army. The book was also excellent due to its maps allowing the reader to follow the movements of the Armies.
Great finale to a great trilogy... What is better: Catton's three-parter on the War Between the States, or Shelby Foote's trifecta? Both are lyrical masterpieces, both are comprehensive, but I'm going to go with Catton. It's a matter of personal preference, but I don't like getting bogged down in exact timetables of battle, e.g. which general was on top of which hill with what troops, etc.
Great end to the three book series. clearly and engagingly written. Catton has a definite thesis and he supports it well, but I don't think that detracts from a general understanding of the politics and battles of the war. I found it illuminating.
One of four books I found at a church garage sale. All four for a dollar! I enjoy reading old books and I'll write about this one when I finish.Turns out, this is book three of a trilogy. If I like it, I may have to look up the other two.
Only the Gettysburg portion, in preparation for an upcoming trip and because my husband the historian criticized the movie "Gettysburg" as superficial and misleading. However it seemed to me that the film took much of its dialogue straight from Catton.
Potentially factually thin in a couple of places (George Thomas messing up a map? Really?) and perhaps a little too generous of spirit toward many of the generals, but still an absolutely elegant read.
Overall, brilliantly done and well told. The third of an award-winning trilogy.
A bit of a slog but I understand much more about the Civil War and especially Lincoln now.
Catton's three-volume history of the Civil War is excellent: detailed, nuanced, and highly readable; history written for adults.
This trilogy is wonderful. Catton is a fantastic writer. I really enjoyed reading these books.
Bruce Catton is one of the great historians of the Civil War. Anyone wanting to get "deep" into what actually happened in that troubled time should read any of his books.
I absolutely loved this series by Catton. He focused more on the political side of the Civil War than on battles, but this perspective explains the big picture better.
