https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68843.The_Tomb_and_Other_Tales
P. Lovecraft and Harry Houdini]He • (1926) • short story by H.
P. LovecraftThe Strange High House in the Mist • [Dream Cycle] • (1931) • short story by H.
P. Lovecraft]The Evil Clergyman • (1939) • short story by H.
P. LovecraftThe Alchemist • (1916) • short story by H.
P. Lovecraft]The Street • (1920) • short story by H.
P. LovecraftAzathoth • [Dream Cycle] • (1922) • short story by H.
P. LovecraftThe Descendant • (1926) • short story by H.
P. LovecraftThe Thing in the Moonlight • [Dream Cycle] • (1934) • short story by H.
খুব ভালো লাগে নাই। শুরুর দিকের কিছু গলপ বেখাপপা রকম মুগধ করলেও, পরবরতী কিছু গলপ যেনো কেমন, ভোতা, গড়পরতায় উঁচুনিচু সঙকলন, যদিও সময়ের বিচারে গলপগুলি ধারাবাহিকভাবেই রাখা এই বইয়ে। গুণে গুণেই বলি, পরথম গলপ, টুম, বেশ জমানো। দবিতীয় গলপ পড়তে সুনদর, সমভবত লাভকরযাফটের গদয হয় এরকমই, ধরেবেঁধে সুনদর হতেই হয় তাদের, কিনতু এই গলপ কেমন নিভে গেলো হটাত।এরপরের গলপটা বেশ কৌতূহল-জাগানো, মিশরে ঘটে, বেশ একটা পাকানো গনধ, কিনতু যত গনধ তত সবাদে নয়, এই গলপও খুব বেশি মুখরোচক হয়ে ওঠে না। এরপররেটা বরং ভালো, দবিতীয় গলপটার মতন,
খুব ভালো লাগে নাই। শুরুর দিকের কিছু গল্প বেখাপ্পা রকম মুগ্ধ করলেও, পরবর্তী কিছু গল্প যেনো কেমন, ভোতা
It’s a very early example of Lovecraft, published the same year (1917) as “Dagon,” his first published story.Next comes “The Festival,” which has always been my favorite from this collection, and was at one time my favorite HPL story of all (today “The Colour Out of Space” holds that title).
“The Horror at Red Hook,” from the same year, is probably the better-known of his New York stories, and it really reeks of xenophobia, but manages to be somewhat more cosmic in its implications, suggesting the ways that Lovecraft’s writing was becoming focused on perils to all of humanity, rather than simple chills from individual terrors.
This book contains a series of short stories by HP Lovecraft.
I can't say that they were fantastic but it was interesting to read more of Lovecraft's work.
Lovecraft never seems to go into great detail about these beings/ creatures, rather he leaves it for the reader to come up with his own images.
All in all, I think it's worth trying to find and read Lovecraft's work.
This is the third book of his stories, two of short stories and one novel that I've read and his style and story - telling are quite unique.
So I read some of these stories a long time ago and don't remember them and didn't write any comments.
Mopey Lovecraft dreams about a man that is discontented with the world and reality.He : 7.0 - A man "born in the wrong era" finds that New York haunts him.
Guy gets lost in tunnels, finds creature, turns out to be a man that looks like an ape.The Book : - Pretty cool little piece.
Pretty cool.The Street : 7.5 - Totally different from any Lovecraft story I've ever read.
"Imprisoned with the Pharaohs", which was ghostwritten for Houdini(!), feels like a boys' adventure tale and only descends into a Lovecraftian abyss near the end.
"He" and "The Horror of Red Hook" presumably date from Lovecraft's excellent New York adventure and are full of disdain for the city and its immigrant populations, especially "Red Hook", which reads like a Klanthulu tale in spots ("squat, swarthy strangers with hardened faces and narrow eyes...who could never mean aught to a blue-eyed man of the old folk").
And it is still hilarious that the Necronomicon is invariably described as rare and unknown, yet appears in every old hovel in New England.
quote:"One can trace the relics of this former happiness in the trim shapes of the buildings, the occasional graceful churches, and the evidences of original art and background in bits of detail here and there - a worn flight of steps, a wormy pair of decorative columns of pilasters, or a fragment of once green space with bent and rusted iron railing"  - Horror in Red Hook, 1925
This is a collection of some of Lovecraft's lesser known stories, collaborations (one with Houdini), some early pieces and fragments.They all display the typical Lovecraft style: very verbose and descriptive yet with very little actual dialogue or typical "action". It's a very moody kind of horror that you either love or hate. What can I say? I love it.
Tomb is one of his shortest stories and makes for a great introduction to the neophyte Lovecraft reader. Doesn't get into the mythos at all really, but is a good example of his style.
Reunião de contos que trafegam por gêneros como o horror - o clássico A Tumba - e a ficção científica - Entre as Paredes de Eryx -, com destaque para personagens jogados na loucura e no desespero.
IL GENIO DELL'ORRIDOSe Lovecraft afferma che "l'orrore, visto nella sua più profonda essenza, non poteva essere il fondamento di una storia, in quanto, come dice l'autore tedesco citato da Poe, es lasst sich nicht lesen: non si lascia leggere", diverse pagine dopo si smentisce: "solo un artista eccezionale può immortalare [...] un soggetto davvero terrificante [...] con un tale realismo da farlo sembrare vero.
Solo il genio, infatti, conosce l'esatta anatomia dell'Orrido e la vera fisiologia del Terrore".
Dando, quasi inutile dirlo, la perfetta definizione di sé stesso.E non credo sia necessario aggiungere altro, se non il fatto che non ci sia stato un solo racconto che mi abbia lasciato del tutto indifferente, anche quelli meno apprezzati hanno saputo regalarmi una bella dose di sudori freddi ed esclamazioni di disgusto.
"Sedibus ut saltem placidis in morte quiescam" (“En un lugar placentero, cuando muera, me sea dado descansar”) - VirgilioSiguiendo con la continuación de los relatos cortos de H. P. Lovecraft, leemos La Tumba (The Tomb), la historia de Jervas Dudley, quien vivió siempre en esferas alejadas del mundo real y se siente obsesionado por una antigua cripta... ¿en qué punto la obsesión puede tornarse en locura? o ¿ acaso fue algo más?...
Lovecraft is, as always, the master of horror. If some of his works seem outdated or the endings expected, it's because for the last hundred years, everything that has scared us has been based on him.
I enjoyed this book of weird tales by Lovecraft and found it engaging and entertaining. I particularly loved "The Tomb" and "In the Walls of Eryx"!
Great and odd . . . no kidding!
Con i racconti di Lovecraft ormai ho capito come va: alcuni sono da brivido e te li bevi in un secondo, mentre altri sono noiosissimi...
For years the name "Lovecraft" conjured up images in my mind of wading through "Shakespeare's Unknown Works" Although I love horror, I had for some reason always assumed that his works would be a tedious and difficult read.
When I read the first of the short stories in this book "The Tomb" I was thrilled to find that it wasn't difficult to read, it was simply beautiful, lyrical writing in a style that we cannot recapture today.
If you don't read this book, pick up something by Lovecraft so that you can see the true power of the written word.
I can't believe I haven't read any Lovecraft before.
But those stories alone would merit three stars.
We don't see the transversal of this razor's edge, but we see text on one side, with flashes of potential drowned out by boredom, predictability, overt racism, and overdramatization, and text on the other which is fully actualized (Red Hook is an exception; the classism and racism that are implicit in many of the other tales come fully to the fore in that story and render it almost entirely unpalatable.
I haven't read much in this realm, but I can see how its influence has trickled down.
With Lovecraft, it's always hit and miss.
This collection has just enough "hit" to avoid a dismal rating, but only just so.
When the stories in this collection are not good, they are entirely forgettable.
In other collections of his work I'd read, the attitudes were not too prominent, but never entirely absent.
Curiously, though, he recants his attitude as the story progresses.
I'm not sure what this story says about Lovecraft himself.
The most forgettable stories read more like fragments rather than fully realized works.
Oddly enough, it's the collection of fragments at the end of the book that is the most enjoyable.
My route must have been far from straight, for it seemed hours before I was free of the mirage-plant's pervasive influence.
Gradually the dancing lights began to disappear, and the shimmering spectral scenery began to assume the aspect of solidity.
Though eternities had seemed to pass, the whole experience could have consumed little more than a half-hour."One of the earliest reports of the common "420" cannabis culture codeword.
The dating of this Lovecraft story is 1939!Lovecraft's hallucinatory experience of the main character derives from a mirage plant and it's influence.
Dancing lights, spinning, spectral scenery, are all descriptions used to describe this 420 mirage-plant.
This is a nice collection of stories by Lovecarft, offering alternative aspects of horror, alongside the classic conception of the Ancient Ones.But the real masterpiece here is "Beyond the Wall of Sleep", a short story -which doesn't share many bonds with the horror genre- based on a concept far beyond its own time, and any time really. Superb and unrivaled...Since the review is about all stories in the collection, I'd rate each one of them as follows:The Tomb..........................3/5Dagon.............................3/5The Transition of Juan Romero.....2/5Beyond the Wall of Sleep..........5/5The Statement of Randolph Carter..3/5The Nameless City.................4/5Herbert West: Reanimator..........3/5Hypnos............................4/5He................................3/5
The Tomb and Other Tales (2002) on novellikokoelma, joka sisältää perinteisten Lovecraft-novellien lisäksi Early Tales -kokoelman Lovecraftin 15-22-vuotiaana kirjoittamia novelleja sekä Fragments -osion, jossa on neljä lyhyttä keskeneräiseksi jäänyttä tarinaa.Pidin tästä novellikokoelmasta enemmän kuin aiemmin lukemastani At the Mountains of Madness -omnibuksesta, sillä tämän kokoelman tarinat olivat monipuolisempia, selkeämmin kirjoitettuja ja ylipäätään kiinnostavampia. Suosikkeihini kuuluivat erityisesti hieman erikoisesti Venukseen sijoittuva, scifahtava kauhunovelli "In the Walls of Eryx" sekä Lovecraftin Harry Houdinille salakirjoittama novelli "Imprisoned with the Pharaohs". Kokonaisuutena vahva kokoelma Lovecraftin novelleja, jonka vuoksi annan tälle teokselle 4 tähteä.
For my money, this is the best of Lovecraft in one volume.
"I was far from home, and the spell of the eastern sea was upon me".
I read that opening line over thirty years ago and it still sticks with me.
"The Tomb" is responsible for a long series of disturbing dreams I had featuring ancient Egypt.
Too bad young people no longer have the patience and attention span for Lovecraft, because he is best read when the brain is still malleable.
I was plesantly surprised to find Lovecraft references in Junot Diaz' works.
This was my first Lovecraft Experience, and this collection left me wanting more.
Lovecraft manages to write horror in a highly poetic style that's enchanting.
Unfortunately, his stories are a product of their time in that racism and classism (to name two) are a problem--perhaps most notably in "The Horror at Red Hook" and "The Transition of Juan Romero"--which does mar the otherwise-excellent storytelling.The collection was a bit repetitive thematically: some of the stories are a bit too similar, and I would've liked a bit more diversity in the selection of tales.
Nonetheless, I enjoyed my first taste of Lovecraft, and I look forward to reading more of his work.
This collection of HP Lovecraft is more geared towards the Lovecraft completist, containing at the end some of his younger works and some of his uncompleted fragments. However, there are some very strong stories here such as the title story, the Walls of Eryx, Imprisoned with the Pharoahs, and the Alchemist. Many of the best stories in this collection are also contained in the Doom that Came to Sarnath, however, so if you've read that first then you may want to take a pass on this unless you want to devour everything Lovecraft wrote.
Ὁ τόμος αὐτὸς περιέχει τὰ πρῶτα, νεανικά, λιγότερο σημαντικὰ καὶ μὲ ἀτέλειες βεβαίως διηγήματα τοῦ Λάβκραφτ, μὲ τὰ ὁποῖα ὅμως ἀρχίζει νὰ διαγράφεται ἡ μελλοντικὴ πορεία τοῦ συγγραφέως. Δὲν συνιστᾶται σὲ ὅσους θέλουν νὰ διαβάσουν τὰ ἀντιπροσωπευτικότερα καὶ καλύτερα ἔργα τοῦ συγγραφέως, ἀλλὰ στοὺς φανατικοὺς λάτρεις τοῦ Χ.Φ.Λ. ποὺ θέλουν νὰ διαβάσουν ὅλα του τὰ ἔργα καὶ νὰ ἐμπλουτίσουν τὴν συλλογή τους μὲ τὴν πλήρη σειρὰ τῶν ἐκδόσεων Αίολος.
I find with Lovecraft that when he's good he is so good, and when he's bad he is incredibly slow and it's nearly unbearable. This collection contains hits and misses. My favorites included: "The Tomb", "The Festival", "The Strange High House in the Mist", "In the Walls of Eryx", "The Alchemist", "The Street," and "The Transition of Juan Romero." Despite the ones that I didn't enjoy, the book was worth it for those that I loved reading. Definitely another good Lovecraft collection.
This was among the 2-3 horror short story collections I picked up at the secondhand book store and unfortunately, represents probably the third time I've forgotten that Lovecraft just isn't to my taste (probably due at least in part to my sister Mary's constant adulation thereof). I find a lot of his ideas interesting, but the writing just isn't especially gripping, somehow? And so much of it was just this excessive gore that wasn't scary so much as stomach-turning.
Lovecraft reads like fine wine, prose like poetry. Whenever I'm in need of GOOD writing for writing's sake, I read Lovecraft. Sure, his stories are impressive and creative, but they are old and rarely have the twist ending I seek. Don't get me wrong. I adore Lovecraft more than almost any other author on the books. But you can't drink fine wine all day every day.
Another Lovecraft anthology, collected by August Derleth in 1965. Published by Panther, once upon a time. One nice (and a bit unusual) thing about this edition is that it features 5 stories from Lovecraft's early years, so you can get a glimpse of how his style evolved. I give any Lovecraft anthology 5 stars, because I am a fanatic.
