https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10444.Ballet_Shoes
Imagine my surprise, as a 10 year old, when she gave me a copy of "Ballet Shoes" and told me it was her favorite book as a child.
I'm writing this review after re-reading "Ballet Shoes" yesterday.
I read the first few pages, laughed more than I remembered laughing as a child when GUM says to his 16 year old neice Sylvia "I thought all women liked babies?" as he presents her an orphan he's recently rescued.
Like the best children's fiction, "Ballet Shoes" not only holds up well with age, but becomes a completely different book when you revisit it as an adult.
The clerk has clearly never heard of them, but Colleen has, and she tells the customer that "The Ballet Shoes" is definitely the one she should start with...This is that book.In the twenty-first century, a particularly cynical reader might accuse the book of containing certain tropes that have become so common as to be considered cliche these days: The plucky British orphans; the valiantly struggling relation; the general bonhomie of the outside world, which makes everything somehow bearable; the happy ending....
And if you happen to be in such a mood on the day you read this book (or listen to the audiobook version, as I did,) then you're in for a five-star treat.
5 Words: Classic, Christmas, talent, family, dance.This is one of my FAVOURITE books ever.
How could I?Ballet Shoes follows the Fossil sisters and their journey through life as they try to get their name into the history books because of who they are.It's a book that always makes me smile, that could cheer me up on the most miserable of days.
And it has this kick-ass thread of girl-power throughout, a discreet hint of feminism that makes you root for Petrova.And this edition?
I think I have about 5 copies of this book and this one is by far the most beautiful.
And Christmas-sy.
The story of Pauline, Petrova, and Posy will be in my heart for life, even though I must confess that was introduced to these charming and unforgettable characters from the 1975 British television version.
Only when I was in my 20's did I read it cover to cover when I introduced its pleasures to a girl I was tutoring.Pauline, Petrova, and Posy are three adopted girls being raised in London in the 1930's.
Her dream is to learn to fly an airplane.It's a very different experience to love this book at age 10, read it at age 20(ish), and think about it at age 40.
I had two career goals as a little girl--I would be a ballerina...or a librarian, heh. Well I started ballet at three and continued through college, but alas never made it to the big stage. I am a librarian though so go figure.I loved these books so much as a child. All of her series that I read I should say, but especially ballet shoes. This is a fascinating vanished world.
Thank you, Kathleen Kelly, for alerting me to the existence of this book. This was really cute and heartwarming. And I think it's probably time I watch You've Got Mail again.
First of all, it is clear that the book is for children and the film is for the grown ups.
But the beauty remains in both.Pauline, Petrova and Posy are sister by 'accident' as they were all adopted by a wealthy and nice uncle Matthew (whom they called Gum, because Great Uncle Matthew.
Pauline could act and recite and Posy wasn't very far from being a professional ballerina.
On the other hand, I'm really sad the part with the Blue Bird play wasn't in the film as I think it could have been done in a really nice way.
Reading this just made me happy. Ridiculous, but true. It's really a lovely book, with strong, sensible characters.
Aww man. I always feel like crying when I finish this book.Full review to come.
Every child should have the joy of reading this book. I am so sad that most of her books are out of print and very difficult to find. I'm very glad that this one and a couple others are available. This book is charming and wholesome and funny and full of good lessons for young children. I would buy every single Streatfeild Book that came into print. And I would buy multiple copies so that my children could have their own sets.
One of my two favorite of Streatfield's "Shoes" books. A children's novel from the 1930s about three adopted sisters, poor but talented, who attend a dance and stage school in London. They have a guardian who turns her home into a boarding house to make a living, and most of the other characters live there.
I would have loved to experience the lives of the Fossil girls through a child's eyes, and to have grown up with them.Noel Streatfeild's beautiful book bewitched me with its simplicity, charm and humour.
As in all the best children's books, she instructs by delivering a compelling story and making us fall in love with the virtues and lives of the characters.Of course, in the character of Winifred - the talented but mousey girl who never gets the part - we see the dark side of poverty; unlike the well-cared for Fossil children, her family is truly poor and there isn't much hope that she'll end up with a successful career.
Another important factor in my decision to read it was also the Pre-1960′s Classic Children’s Books Reading Challenge hosted by Turning the Pages I am participating in this year.
For instance, when Gum (Great Uncle Matthew) brings the orphan Pauline to her 16 year-old niece, Sylvia, who is reluctant in taking her, he says:"I thought all women like children!"Posy is also a “little monster” who mocks everyone’s behaviour by imitating them in a hilarious way, a “talent” of her most visibile in the second half of the book.I recommend “Ballet Shoes” to children of all ages, and to adults who want to remember their childhood.
For all the little girls, of whatever age, who dream of being dancers, singers, actresses--or car mechanics, this is your read.Yes, it's implausible.
The wrap is a tad too convenient; the book was published in 1936; one wonders how safe it was for little Posy to go off to Czechoslovakia and study dance...given the events in about three years after that.BUT--if you are looking for "realistic" children's literature, don't read any more of the Shoe books.
But then, real children don't go to wizard school, do they?A cosy, comforting night-time read for all the little girls who never made the history books.
Perfect for Christmas, not convinced by the narrator.
I'm fond of all Noel Streatfeild's books, but this one, being the first I read, has a special place in my heart.
It introduces Pauline, Petrova, and Posy Fossil, orphans who are adopted by an eccentric geologist who then disappears for years, leaving the girls in the care of his niece Sylvia and her old nanny, Nana.
When the money he left Sylvia runs out, they decide to send the girls to stage school.
The story and characters are lively and memorable, and Streatfeild describes the girls' training and their dreams and goals with warmth, humor, and a realism which makes the book come alive.

Why did I wait so long to read this? I love this
As Pauline, Petrova, and Posy grow, household finances are placed under considerable strain, for Gum had only a vague idea how much money raising children requires, and the trust fund he arranged is rapidly coming to an end.
Taking on boarders at Gum's roomy estate alleviates the discomfort considerably, and brings some of the more fascinating characters of the book into orbit around Pauline, Petrova, and Posy's life.
We want Pauline, Petrova, and Posy to remain the same homespun girls from humble beginnings we came to love, the girls we cheer for all through Ballet Shoes because they've made a home in our heart and become our precious friends.
And do you remember when some lady walks up behind Meg and starts talking to the store helper and asks if they've got a book that her daughter (or granddaughter, I forget which, if either) wants and it's called something with shoes.
There's also Theatre Shoes, and Dancing Shoes, and..."Remember?Well, this is that book.
I love dancing, and Noel Streatfield creates such a realistic setting, I wonder if she was a dancer herself.
It is something I cannot quite conceive of, the unknowing of these things.Ballet Shoes is beautiful, iconic in its way, a story of stage and screen and of destiny.
They get lodgers in (one, to Petrova's delight, brings their car: "it was a citroen car, and it's coming here as a boarder") and it is because of those lodgers that the Fossils' world is changed forever.Streatfeild's great skill as a writer is that she has purpose in her prose.
Every child in a Streatfeild book has a vocation, found by hook or by crook, and they are intensely content once finding it.
Because they don't, I don't think, not in a Streatfeild book.
While me memory isn't terrific, I think I can see why the novel charmed me so much and captured my fascination.
The 3 adopted girls are parent-less, there's a struggle for money, they're being raised and educated by a lovely team of women, in a bit of a patchwork of a home.
As well, the girls were able to earn money through dancing and acting when they turned 12 and could be issued licenses by the city.
I think fondly of how often I read these books, and how happy I am they existed for me to escape into as a child.
"You've Got Mail!" That was the first thing I thought about when I picked up this book and CD from the library. The history of that movie for me, is that my husband and I consider this 'our' movie. We met on an online pen-pal forum. So we had watched it a million time, give or take. We both are obsessed with books, reading and writing them. So when I saw the title of the book:   by Noel Streatfield, I realized that the 'shoe books' were real, not just a title made up for the movie. That, also, b
"You've Got Mail!" That was the first thing I thought about when I picked up this book and CD from the library.
We both are obsessed with books, reading and writing them.
So when I saw the title of the book: 
So as I started reading the book I felt a melancholy mass of emotions.Those feeling quickly went away.
I now have to find the next book and CD.
I assume it may have been the same line used previously in the book that was translated.
But this was a library book and I already turned it in when I thought of that.
I couldn't even tell you how many times I've read this. I don't remember the first time. My copy has lost its cover, is in the process of losing its back and at some point a mysterious brown liquid invaded pages 1-75. As a person who takes very good care of her books, having one in this condition is a testament of how often it was read. One of my very favorites.
This entertaining and creative children's book combines themes of dancing, friendship and growing up, accompanied by interesting characters. I'm not sure I liked the choppy sentences, though.
All three girls are orphans, and the first chapter of the book quickly establishes their “origin” story.
All of the girls want to earn their keep, but they also want to excel - and to make their “Fossil” name special.
It’s easy to understand why the book was a huge hit in 1936, the year it was published, and why it has continued to inspire and charm subsequent generations.
Note: I was finally inspired to read this book after reading Patrick Gale’s Take Nothing With You. He mentions Ballet Shoes in that book, and describes it as a “fairy godmother” to his own story.
Can I just say here that it is INEVITABLE that Petrova grow up and join the Air Transport Auxiliary--she is already buzzing around in planes at the age of thirteen in 1933 and it is clear that when she hits 20 in 1940, and has had her pilot's license for the past 4 years or so, she will have no other desire in the universe but to fly Spitfires for the ATA.OK, that obviously has nothing to do with the plot of Ballet Shoes, but it is my comment!I really enjoyed the verisimilitude of this rather wacky book--the premise of these 3 orphaned girls being brought up in a house full of an absent madman's rock collection, having to support themselves on the stage, would be utterly unbelievable without the installation of licenses and bread-and-butter and boredom and the occasional camping trip.
They even make their own sleeping bags when they go camping!Sara tried to read this and found it a bit dull.
Pauline,Petrova, and Posy are three orphan girls who were picked up GUM,or rather Great-uncle-Matthew,on his many travels around the world collecting Fossils.
Looked after by Gum's Great Niece, whilst he returns to his travels,the girls live in relative comfort but the money begins to run out.
I am sure there are many little girls who read this and can identify with either Pauline,Petrova or Posy,as they are all very different but equably lovable.
The first time I had heard of this book was in the movie "You've Got Mail".
When I discovered it was real, I had decided I'd look for it to read.
A few years went by and I had forgotten about the book until friends of mine read it and gave it rather good ratings, so I added the book to my wishlist.
Recently, I had just finished reading Little By Little in which the author mentions having read the book and how it influenced her.
This time, I researched the library's catalog and discovered they had it.
I'm glad I gave the book a chance.
Ballet Shoes is a thoroughly enjoyable book about three girls who are willing to work hard and sacrifice to make their dreams come true.
A wonderful story about family relationships and commitment.
Set during the depression of the 1930s the reader gets a real since of what life for these girls, working on the stage to help pay the bills, would have been like.
While the movie really is as charming as the book they did take some great liberties with the story line.
Some characters were omitted or had their story changed in order to add a love story to the movie.
