https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1143430.Best_of_Manto
Popularly known as Manto, this short story writer is one of the greatest, as well as the most controversial, writers belonging to Lahore, Pakistan.
His stories, originally written in Urdu, are simply narrated, having an essence of lyricism, metaphors and deep insight into human nature.
The book begins with the author's introduction, which is a must-read if you are (like me) a first-time reader of Manto's stories, and wish to get an insight into the relationship between his Urdu stories and its translations.
Manto's stories have that quality, and a lot more that's hard to describe in words.Read full review http://bookwormreviews9.blogspot.in/2015/02/selected-short-stories-by-saadat-hasan.htmlhere.
Brilliant portrayal of partition.....one of the best short story writers I've ever read....each story distinct and memorable...incredible themes, characters.
Manto at its best, Writers sell the lies, manto sold the truth. These stories are eye opener for anyone who thinks beyond languagist abuse.
The penguin edition has choicest short stories by Manto one wouldn't want to miss but the original urdu definitely stands out. Personal favorites areA woman of all seasons, khol do and the odour.
This is an amazing compilation of short stories. Manto writes in Urdu during the Indian partition. If you can get your hands on it, read it.
A time-well-spent book. beautifully written. Things are exposed and yet so true. Urdu vocabulary is smooth that nourishes the novel and the reader too. Manto is a mystery, my his nature, that is his books. I wish he was honored when he was alive.
Selected stories from Urdu's preeminent story writer. Mostly in the backdrop of Partition and poverty-stricken Pakistan/India, the humanity in the characters shines through. Highlights include The Dog of Tetval, Toba Tek Singh, and The Blouse.
GO to http://www.fromlegendtopresent.blogsp...
one of the best books I have ever read of the preindependence writer.saadat was much ahead of his times.A progressive writer.
The only thing I regret is not having read them in Urdu.
writes about the daily mundane things, capturing the nuances amazingly well. highly recommended if one likes to delve in the minds of ordinary people.
ffbf
is words can show the impact of a war.. if your answer is no.. read manto, some impacts are prescribe in very few sentences.. he travels thru the indo-pak war period.. its a gem in my shelf..
