https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99199.Parting_the_Waters
It consistently astounds and amazes, which is itself impressive for a tale so often told.To tell the truth, I've never been very interested in the "classical" civil rights movement, the one we read about in all the US history textbooks, from the Birmingham bus boycott of 1955 up through the march to Selma in 1965.
Before, even sympathetic Northern papers and commentators wondered about the morality of "sit-ins" at segregated stores, marches that were designed to get people arrested, and boycotts generally.
Even if many were sympathetic, many also thought that the methods the civil rights movement used were questionable at best.

I couldn't begin to describe him, you should find out for yourself.Branch includes just enough information on the events outside of the Civil Rights Movement to place what happens within parts of history that every American alive at the time would recall, from Cold War incidents to popular songs.But his ability to draw vivid pictures of people interacting, in concord or conflict, while giving a respectful account of each makes this book come to life in a way I've never seen equaled by any other historian.
There were times as Martin Luther King went into his final refrain of his I Have a Dream Speech that I could feel the hope of the crowd and the anticipation that a new day had truly arrived.
It is also a book of villains and cowards like George Wallace, small town Southern sheriffs, The Kennedy brothers and their inaction in the face of racial violence and injustice, and at times the NAACP, whose chief Roy Wilkins was openly disdainful (and perhaps jealous) of King’s movement and often worked at cross-purposes that threatened to derail both of them.
It is amazing how Mr. Branch can go from the top (King, Kennedy, Hoover) to people at the very roots of the Civil Rights movement (Rosa Parks, John Lewis, William Moore, Louis Allen…).
King never preached or condoned hate.The Kennedy’s are seen as blowing alternately hot and cold for the Civil Rights movement.
Hoover used sex as a way to pull the strings of the Kennedy’s – who were responsible for first setting up wiretaps on Martin Luther King’s advisor Stanley Levison and ultimately on Dr. King himself.Mr. Branch is equally eloquent when outlining the vicious segregationist violence in the Southern States.
Wow!
Whew!
I finally finished!!This is a superbly researched book and was a great read.
Though an intimidating doorstop of a book, it was actually written in quite an accessible way.
I highly recommend it for people who are students of history or just want to know more.
I also recommend it to those who don't see anything wrong with the continuing litany of deaths of black men by the police and who are horribly outraged by the black men kneeling during the national anthem as a protest.
We need to see these people as our equals.
Branch wanders quite thoroughly down paths of subject matter that seem, especially early on, to be diversionary, but ultimately create a remarkably rich context for the reader: King's theological foundations, the inner politics of the National Baptist Convention, the paranoia of a Hoover FBI, the politics of a Kennedy White House, and the foundational disagreements among the NAACP, SCLC, and SNCC --the foremost African-American civil rights groups-- concerning tactics, goals, and motivations.I taught the Civil Rights Movement twice a school-year for three years to a total of twenty different classes of high school seniors and I felt the constriction of time and attention spans each time.
Parting the Waters defines what a popular history should be: detailed, well-researched, and as readable as a novel.
All this detail means that as Branch moves chronologically through the major events of the Civil Rights struggle, you feel like you have the context to understand exactly what these events meant to the people involved at the time they were happening.
What I most appreciate about this book is how it introduced me to major players in the Civil Rights movement who somehow didn't make my high school history book.
I took me a summer of nights reading until one or two o'clock in the morning to finish it.
This is the most epic, engrossing history book ever.
It's the first in a trilogy about the Civil Rights Era, and would be a superior replacement for every history book I had to read from 6th grade on through high school.
For most of us who sat through Texas history, MLK was reduced to his "I have a dream" speech, and the particulars of his strategic, meticulous, agonizing, and even shrewd attempts to use non-violence are washed away in black and white clips of people singing "We Shall Overcome." It also depicts a much less sympathetic JFK, one who was dragged reluctantly into civil rights and actively appointed the most virulently segregationist judges in the South.Read it!
On January 30, 1956, Martin Luther King's house was bombed during the Montgomery Bus Boycott; his wife Coretta and daughter Yolanda barely escaped the blast.
The entirely human response would have been to order the summary execution of any white person in sight after one's house had been bombed and one's family nearly killed.
As it gallops through a thousand pages of burnings, bombings, knifings, shootings, hangings, and mass protests met by police attack dogs and high-powered fire hoses, Branch's book also captures the very human side of King the icon.
evil, Taylor takes us from the deep south, where segregationists routinely violate black civil rights with impunity, to Washington, DC, where the Kennedys feed civil right improvements to King through an erratic IV drip to mollify the southern Democrats.
Meanwhile, Hoover wastes untold man hours and tax dollars pursuing King as a communist, with zero evidence, contradicting his own men who reported no communist threat.Taylor's behind the scenes narrative of the White House tightrope on civil rights shows us that there was no room for lofty ideals, courage, or "doing the right thing".
Nothing has changed...it is politics as usual.SH
Branch is white but a number of years ago I saw him on an MLK Day panel on BET.
He was surrounded by black leaders from the movement whose names probably any informed person knows.
What does that tell you about how the people who lived the events in this book think about Branch's version?
The most amazing thing about this book is that you realize that MLK was only part of the story.
This volume included the Kennedy years--Bay of Pigs, Cuban Missile Crisis and so many other events that drew our attention.
Though I know the vague outlines of MLK's life and of the early days of the mid-20th century civil rights movement, I was like many other Americans and embarrasingly thin on the actual details.
It turns out that trying to get equal rights for black Americans in the late 1950s and '60s was actually a dramatic and interesting story (yes, duh, of course it was).
Not to mention the incredible whitewashing of MLK himself.
(And this is a good companion book for the often under-discussed role of women in that movement.) I look forward to seeing this work reimagined in new ways.
This book took me a over year to read, but was worth it. I read it off and on over a year and a half. Such hatred is hard to read, but the hope of Civil Rights for all is a powerful story.
King, at age 26, experienced his first taste of fame in the South at this time.Many early civil rights leaders were drawn from the ranks of southern black Baptist preachers.
Low-key efforts by SCLC organizers to get local blacks registered at their local courthouses throughout the deep South were joined by high profile movements involving civil disobedience and mass arrest at places such as Terrell and Albany Counties in Georgia; McComb and Greenwood in Mississippi; and Birmingham in Alabama.There was no doubt that efforts to challenge the South's segregation laws would lead to violence against the protesters.
A very dark period in U.S. history and one that must never be forgotten. So much can be learned from these pioneers of the civil rights movement. A must read for all.
Edgar Hoover emerge as genuine three-dimensional people, for example, and there are whole armies of key players--Abernathy, Shuttlesworth, et al.--I'd never even heard of.But of all the insights and revelations I gained from the book, the most striking point to me was how little attention the mainstream press paid--to the boycotts, the beatings and murders, the kangaroo courts, etc.--at least until the March on Washington.
I read Ellison's Invisible Man years ago, but to picture that invisibility scaled to include millions of people was simply astonishing.
Did not dock a star for the 20 missing pages in the paperback edition I read.
I missed some childhood.
The book is very detailed about the civil rights movement and the times in general.
It's a triple biography that adds names, details and background to all that black and white footage I watched while eating supper with my mom.
The young preachers trade licks like guitar players.
There are forms to play with and tricks of the trade.
Put the patterns in the right hands and it's quite an art.
I can see now, how that cross-over happens between early rock n' roll and preaching.
The book is an almost day to day recounting of the uprising of the civil rights movement and begins with King as a young man.
Branch captures Kings maturation as a leader as seen through the movement.
There is also heavy room given to the competing leaders, preachers, etc in the movement as well as the Kennedy administration and the state and local governments in conflict with the movement.
Branch interjects the behind the scenes political negotiations into the insane and violent action being experienced on the ground.
Must-read history.
He weaves a compelling linked tale of King and America, making it clear that the modern Civil Rights movement was many, many people and manages throughout the three volumes to give major space to a rich index of characters—sharecroppers to Presidents, school children to ministers, citizens unjustly charged with crimes to local and federal judges, the unschooled poor to the educated elite.If you are well-versed in the general history of the period and King’s life all that you would expect is here but many surprises as well.
What impresses the reader the most is the peeling back of the historical veil, to see how many more defeats than victories within the movement, to see how many people disagreed with MLK, especially within the African American community, to fully understand how immensely difficult it was to have achieved what was accomplished.
Very few people felt that MLK was doing the right thing, so much so that his emergence as the leader of the movement is simply through willpower and public presence alongside his application of the philosophy of Gandhi's resistance through non violence.
Essential book of American history.
This volume shows King's early years, going from his first sermons and time at Crozer Theological Seminary to his rise to the forefront of the civil rights movement, taking the reader up to the twin landmark events of 1963 - The March On Washington and Kenndy's assassination.This is not, however, a biography of Martin Luther King, Jr., and there are stretches where he seems barely present, such as the beginnings of the Birmingham demonstrations in early 1963.
This took longer to read than any book I can ever remember reading, but the time spent was absolutely worth it, and I'm looking forward to volume two.
Formidable is right: this hefty book, 900+ pages, is both a biography of Martin Luther King, jr., and a near day-to-day history of the American Civil Rights Movement.
The first of a trilogy, it chronicles King’s early life, culminating in his arrival at Dexter Avenue Baptist Church in Montgomery in 1954, the shaky start of the movement with the Montgomery Bus Boycott, and follows King and others through to 1963, the March on Washington, and the Kennedy Assassination.
But Taylor Branch has chronicled an exhaustive history of the movement, every step taken, punch and rock thrown, every frustrating moment of failure and success.
The first volume of Taylor Branch's epic history, Parting the Waters focuses on the part of the story that most deserves the subtitle "America in the King Years." This will remain the definitive narrative history of the Civil Rights Movement as conventionally understood.
Branch concentrates his attention on King, the Kennedy brothers, a familiar gallery of movement activists and leaders (Roy Wilkins, James Farmer, John Lewis, James Bevell, Ralph Abernathy, Bayard Rustin, Bob Moses--I'll get to the women in a second), and antagonists (Bull Connor, Laurie Pritchett, J.
Second, although I just mentioned that Branch avoids most confusion, some is present in the initial hundred pages or so of the narrative mainly due to the discussion of M.L. King Sr's name change for himself and his son.
Granted, the actual name change itself must have been confusion so the narration of the events with characters of identical names (both before and after the change) cannot completely avoid the confusion.Third, (and this is rather nitpicky) the first hundred pages or so does not fit the chronology listed on the front of the book.
Anybody interested in getting nuts and bolts of the civil rights movement? Here is the book. The first volume of three. All the stuff your not taught in Black History month.At 1000+ pages, covering King's birth and background to the death of Kennedy, it is very tedious and highly detailed but a must for Civil Rights historians.I look forward to reading the second two volumes.
What an amazing book.
This is the story of the birth of the civil rights movement.
The bravery and vision of all the people involved-preachers, students, eccentrics, lawyers, everyday folks, children-springs to life in these pages.
One person's action, another's decision, a single voice, each a step towards the realization of King's Dream.
We still have a long way to go on that path!
Taylor tells a story that is both frustrating and uplifting; it is heartbreaking at times, inspiring at others.
I am eager to move on to the next book in this trilogy.
It makes for enlightening and humbling reading.
The first of three volumes about America in the king years all three are good but this first volume I found moved mr, challenged me and hopefully taught me lessons we could all use in these times.
But the challenge of this book to me was asking myself if I would have ever been brave enough to even say the movement was on the right side of not only history but humanity.
Many who stood for what was right weren't looking to be activists but simply found themselves in a time and place where character answered that question for them.
Great book! Thoroughly enjoyed the content, the writing, and Branch's approach to the topic, fusing a biography on King with a history of the larger Civil Rights movement. The story has an epic sweep, and this volume of the trilogy takes us from King's forebears through the JFK assassination. A very edifying read in many respects. Highly recommend.
