https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99297.Mr_Darcy_s_Diary
August-I did nothing interesting in August, but still wrote many entries.September-So, Bingley was serious about this estate-in-the-country-thing, and I went with him to see Netherfield in Hertfordshire.
-OH GOD SHE CAME TO NETHERFIELD!!!!-ELIZABEEETHHHHHHHHH!!!!-Bingley hosted a ball today and I DANCED WITH ELIZABETH!!!-Wait.
Now let's forget Elizabeth Bennet.
When he wasn't saying how much better he was than everyone else, he was either trying to convince himself that loving Elizabeth was a big no-no, or that Bingley and Jane could never happen.
I mean, Caroline Bingley a woman worth marrying his cousin?
I enjoyed one overheard conversation between Lady Catherine and Mr. Collins, and I enjoyed Col. Fitzwilliam's reaction when Darcy describes the manner in which he proposed to Elizabeth: essentially, "You said what to her?"But the writing is terrible.
And the author beats you over the head with recognizable phrases from P&P.The diary framework was unrealistic and inconsistently crafted.
Some entries were written as if Darcy were recalling the day's events, but others were written as if the action were happening real-time.I was annoyed that the author went to the trouble of making Lydia Bennet practically malicious, rather than only stupid and thoughtless.
If there was one truly interesting thing about re-writing Pride and Prejudice from Darcy's POV, it was the opportunity to dig deeper into the feelings that accompanied him throughout his growth as a person (why, I think that was entirely the point, wasn't it?), but I think Grange didn't portray (let alone truly convey) Darcy's development and crucial change of mind well enough.
I think I'll also try out some of the other books in the Jane Austen Heroes series -I'm especially curious about Wentworth's and Knightley's.
Mr. Darcy's Diary is a straight retelling of Pride and Prejudice, even directly quoting the original during key points in the plot.
Grange has done a very admirable job of spinning the story from Darcy's point of view, but she hasn't been able to do it in an interesting or original way.
Her efforts to recreate Darcy's formal and reserved personality within this diary-as-a-novel format have resulted in a very bland and wooden book where every twist of the story is predictable.
I'd recommend this book only to particular friends of the original story.
Okay, maybe AMAZING is a strong word..it's not like it's a timeless piece of literature, but it was so great! Like Mr. Knightley's Diary, it's so interesting to read the story from a different perspective. Again, I have to say that you should only read these books if you won't be offended that it's NOT Jane Austen. I didn't find it to be a huge departure from the original work but it's clearly not Austen.So pretty much if you have a crush on Mr. Darcy and want to solidify said ridiculous crush, read this book. You'll swoon!
“In vain have I struggled. It will not do. My feelings will not be repressed. You must allow me to tell you how ardently I admire and love you.”   Mr.darcy's diraies  is an excellent read, that gives us a brief glimpse into our favourite brooding hero's thoughts and his rich world.With the Bennetts making only a few brief appearances along the way, this book otherwise,solely revolves around Mr.darcy, and his relationships with Mr.Bingely (his best friend ),Caroline (his best friend's sister and
Mr.darcy's diraies  is an excellent read, that gives us a brief glimpse into our favourite brooding hero's thoughts and his rich world.With the Bennetts making only a few brief appearances along the way, this book otherwise,solely revolves around Mr.darcy, and his relationships with Mr.Bingely (his best friend ),Caroline (his best friend's sister and finally both,his sister Georgiana & Mr. Wickham ..I loved the way,the author, actually took her readers back to the past, (to young Georgia's almost envelopment with her dear Wickham)...before gliding into the present while bewitching us with the future.This book may have lacked the depth I expected Darcy's thoughts to have,But nevertheless This book is an excellent read for ALL P&P fan's craving for a Bit more Lizzy and Darcy AFTER,the final proposal scene.(Yep !You read me right !This book has the longest epilogue I've ever been delighted to have read,going far after THE END and into the HEA , from where Miss Jane stopped hers..)
I will probably still end up reading it.I was so freaking excited that I go Mr. Darcy's Diary because I just love that freaking character.
Now I'm kind of torn on how to write this review because even though I freaking love P&P and I might have a slight obsession with it.
I didn't really like this book.
I will of course try to reread this again later this year maybe?
I feel like I owe it to my love for P&P and I should try to see if I could end up liking it later in life.
After reading Pamela Aiden's "Fitzwilliam Darcy, Gentleman" trilogy a few months ago, I found this to be merely a much simpler version.
Grange doesn't go much beyond the events we already know of from the original novel, and Darcy himself doesn't seem to have much depth at all.
Nothing happens to Darcy that we don't already know about to some degree.The book was enjoyable for the story itself, and of course I found myself smiling when Elizabeth finally accepted.
If you really want an in-depth look at Darcy, I recommend the Pamela Aiden trilogy.
Fans of Jane Austen's timeless classic will fall in love with Darcy all over again when they read the inner most thoughts of a man whom the world sees as proud and self-righteous.Amanda Grange stays as close to Pride and Prejudice as possible in her re-telling of the timeless classic.
There are enough similarities that I believe even Jane Austen herself would happily add this book to her collection.
I have read quite a few reviews that state this is nothing like the original and I think they have missed the whole point of the book.
Nothing spectacular, just a retelling of Jane Austen's P&P from Mr. Darcy's perspective (his diary).
There's a lot of:I will pay Elizabeth no more attention.(You do that.
I will enjoy seeing you try.)I did not miss Elizabeth at all.
I believe I scarcely thought of her half a dozen times all day.(Should I count that as progress?
I never was, before I met Elizabeth.(You are so doomed.)There's also some of the following:I am looking forward to this evening.
After dinner, our true marriage will begin.(Darcy, you dawg.)Like I said, there's nothing spectacular or groundbreaking about this book.
RTC
139 - 2012Well written fan fictionCocok untuk dibaca sebagai pendamping novel P&P, karena in-line dengan cerita aslinya, dan banyak mencomot dialog asli. Tapi dari gaya bertuturnya, mungkin lebih baik novel ini bukan dalam bentuk diary, tapi hanya novel dengan POV orang pertama saja.Bagi penggemar novel Pride and Prejudice, alur cerita novel ini bukan hal yang baru, dan endingnya juga bukan spoiler, berakhir dengan adegan yang umumnya ditunggu-tunggu para pembaca novel roman : Mbok ya jangan
Ia juga begitu pede dan yakin lamaran orang yang berasal dari kalangan terhormat dan setaraf dirinya bakal langsung diterima oleh Lizzie yang berasal dari "kalangan rendah".Pengen rasanya nyekek Mr Darcy ini, baik saat baca P&P, nonton miniseri BBC, maupun baca novel ini, waktu dia menambahi pernyataan cinta ujug-ujugnya "You must allow me to tell you how ardently I admire and love you" dengan pidato ketidakrelaannya, karena Lizzie berasal dari golongan bawah, karena ia tidak suka pada ibu, ayah, dan adik-adik Lizzie, bahwa logika dan akal sehat membuatnya berusaha melupakan Lizzie tapi tak bisa, dan akhirnya ia terpaksa menyerah dan merendahkan dirinya sendiri dan keluarganya dengan meminta Lizzie menjadi istrinya.Ini ngelamar atau ngehina sih, Mas!
I know not everyone loves P&P the way I do, but the author follows the encouters between Darcy and Elizabeth authentically, keeping many aspects of the original in tack.
It makes the book so wonderful, and because it's from Darcy's perspective so the author adds wonderful scenes like the discovery of Wickham in Ramsgate, Lady Catherine's diatribe to Darcy after speaking with Elizabeth, and some very satisfying scenes that round out Austin's original epilogue.
The novel is written in modern English making it a quicker read than the original P&P, but she keeps enough phrasing from the original to appeal to Austen fans.
I also found it quite fun to get to know Colonel Fitzwilliam a bit better through the Diary, and witness Darcy’s horror as he realizes how Elizabeth found out about his interference in Jane’s affairs.
So bad.Darcy, for the rest of the Diary, goes through an extremely bad case of what I’m beginning to think of calling Grangeitis; of course, he is totally in love, and has no idea of it, even while admiring Elizabeth’s fine eyes and wit, despite her lack of suitable family and fortune.
Not bad at all! I was pleasantly surprised!
AMAZING! So nice to see this epic story from the dashing hero's point of view!! The struggles he went through with Wickham among many things gives him a whole new side which we don't see very much in the novel! And the ending chapters of life after marriage were perfect; not silly and over the top, the right balance!
One of JAFF I ever read. Probably opened a door of possibilities to me.
If the books lines up fairly well with your personal opinion of the characters, it will likely be enjoyable.
I felt like he changed his opinions a little too suddenly to fit his character (he had several "lightbulb" moments) but it wasn't major enough to hurt my enjoyment.
I know it's meant to be arrogant and proud, but I thought it was overdone here.Charles and Caroline Bingley fit my ideas of them almost exactly, with Caroline being a little more bitter and acidic than is evident in P&P.
The rest of the book is just "Pride and Prejudice" told by Darcy, which in itself offers little in view of the actual story.
After all, why pick up a book called "Mr. Darcy's Diary" if you haven't read "Pride and Prejudice" first?
The book adopts a style that offers tremendous opportunities for character development, but instead of seizing the opportunity, Grange copies whole dialogues, word by word, from the original text, and sprinkles in some observations which I really could have gone without.
Winters and the rest of us aspiring authors on fanfiction.net is that Amanda Grange, Seth Grahame-Smith and Ben H.
Not at all a page-turner like Pride & Prejudice, but an easy and enjoyable read
In 2005 author Amanda Grange gave Pride and Prejudice fans what they had been craving for centuries—Jane Austen’s classic story retold entirely from the perspective of its iconic romantic hero—Mr. Darcy.
In Pride and Prejudice the reader sympathizes with the heroine Elizabeth Bennet in her dislike of Mr. Darcy.
40Close readers of Pride and Prejudice will recognize lines of Austen’s original dialogue (like Elizabeth’s speech to Darcy quoted above) interlaced with Grange’s new text.
What fan of Pride and Prejudice, and Mr. Darcy, could possibly resist reliving a cherished novel and walking a mile in his shiny, black Hessian boots?
After reading this book, I've discovered a little known fact that I never wanted to know, gasp: Mr. Darcy was one boring dude.
Unfortunately, this harsh reality makes perfect sense, I mean, look how Austen portrays him in Pride and Prejudice?
Like, what was he doing before he met Elizabeth, how exactly did he fall in love with her, what were his experiences with his sister and Bingley, etc.
In truth, I found him completely uninteresting and dull for about the first half of the book, and then when he drove Bingley from Jane Bennet, I thought him just plain mean.
Elizabeth is the hero of Pride and Prejudice.
I have read many, many books by authors attempting to recreate Jane Austen's style and write sequels to continue her beloved stories, and they are never successful and I am always thoroughly disappointed.
And anybody who has ever read and loved P&P will certainly have wondered many times over just what he was thinking throughout the course of the story.
It was nice also that she did extend the story slightly to include several months after their wedding, a time which all P&P fans have always wondered about and no author until now has ever adequately captured, in my opinion.
As indicated by the title, it's a diary of the events of Pride and Prejudice told from Mr. Darcy's point of view.
After all, Elizabeth Bennet's world is full of concerns beyond Mr. Darcy in P&P; I would have liked to have the sense that Mr. Darcy had his own concerns outside of his relationships to Elizabeth and Georgiana.For those who want a more insightful retelling of P&P from Darcy's viewpoint, I suggest: "An Assembly Such as This: A Novel of Fitzwilliam Darcy, Gentleman" which I believe to be truer to Darcy's personality, and which gives his character a much wider scope.I am embarrassed to say that I disliked this one so much that I failed to finish it.
I'm desperate
Muchos dirán que es un sacrilegio que a Grange se le ocurriera sacar este libro, que no esta a la al
Ero abbastanza curiosa di leggere questo libro e capire come l'autrice avesse gestito la riscrittura di una storia "così classica" come "Orgoglio e Pregiudizio" della Austen.Dentro di me pensavo: "E' un'impresa impegnativa! Questo libro sarà in grado di farci immergere ancora nelle atmosfere vittoriane e in una delle più famose storie d'amore letterarie?".La risposta è sì. Linguaggio curato e ricostruzione più che perfetta. E devo ammettere che mi è piaciuto rileggere la storia dal punto di vista di Darcy, combattuto tra l'orgoglio e l'attrazione per la sua Elizabeth!
Light-hearted fun. I enjoyed it.
Although Pride and Prejudice utilizes the device of omniscient narrator, the reader spends most of the book inside the sparkling head of Elizabeth Bennet, Mr. Darcy’s ultimate destiny; it rarely gets inside of Darcy’s.Novelist Amanda Grange has sought to remedy this situation by giving voice to the inner thoughts of this stiff but ultimately attractive character in her new book, Mr. Darcy’s Diary.
. .’Mr. Darcy may have never kept a diary but the one Amanda Grange has imagined for him is wonderful fun and brings Elizabeth Bennet’s ultimate hero to life in new and entertaining ways.
But anyone can see a change in writting style when Quotes from the original book are used in the Darcy's dairy.His diary doesn't have the royal feel which is there in the original quotes used.
So any comparisons between Amanda Grange and Jane Auston are unjust.At few occasions it did make me think the other way..
sometimes getting a view that how Elizabeth might have been thinking made me want to read the novel all over again.
It was inclined towards proving Darcy the pride one and Lizzy the prejudiced one..
In a little immaturish style of writing she kept me engaged throgh out the book.
