https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16142926-why-i-assassinated-mahatma-gandhi
So after such a compelling testimonial, I was all agog to read it, to understand the irrefutable arguments why the murder of an old man was essential for the preservation of India and Hinduism.
Nathuram was a dyed-in-the-wool Hindu nationalist, the likes of who are very common in India today, and his arguments are all familiar: Muslims are alien to our country and violent, Gandhi gifted India to the Muslims through his appeasement, he allowed the British and Jinnah to partition the country...etc, etc.
Sadly, I hear the same arguments used in modern-day India through the strident voices of the extreme Hindu Right.Godse is still alive in India, it seems - while Gandhi has been long buried.
My goodness!
I never would have thought that I would give this piece a 4 star rating.
But this work is an argument by Nadhuram Godse justifying killing Gandhi, & as far as arguments go, this is a well-argued one.
Godse's statement is that powerful & eloquent that I am forced to give it 4 stars!PS: I do not agree with Godse's views & absolutely condemn Gandhi's assasination.
This review only reflects my view on the book.
Got this banned book in a book fare. Must read to get a counter opinion on India's most loved man Gandhi. Nathuram Godse Justifies why was it important to kill him.
This book was finally published after the court intervened. It gives a great insight into the way Godse thought and the events leading to the assasination. A good read for anyone who wants to know more about the historical background and the socio cultural context of the incident
Reading this book, it feels that those reasons were pretty logical; but then I haven't read much about Gandhiji.
Basically I don't know if Nathuram Godse was right or not but what I know is that he was a great soul; confident at his convictions and yet at the same time flexible enough to accept the truth even if it possibly shattered all his beliefs on which he based his entire life.
I don't know if he is right or wrong but regardless of that I am in awe of that soul after reading the book.
To start off,my interest in this book was generated by social media and Hindu proproganda.But this book contains Godse' s statements and never glorifies him.The thing I learnt is extreme non violence is also violence.Lastly Godse didn't do the right thing.
His pro-Muslim and anti-Hindu philosophy is what is the basis of today's so called Seculars (Sick-ulars).
I'm not anti-Muslims but rather than looking into problems on both sides, history has the occasions when he knowingly looked away from atrocities being levied on Hindus in particular.The flawed Gandhian principal is still in existence.
This is what is destroying idea of India.
But idea of India says, 'all are equal, be it of any community', 'no special favors to any community' and 'development of everyone equally'.Nathuram proves this point in his statement to the court.
This book is too much relevant in today's India esp.
Same thing is happening here both are very intellectual persons so you could not decide who is wrong because both have their own valid issues.
Nathuram Vinayak Godse did dharna in front of Mahatma Gandhi at Birla Temple and he did not gave any response to him(Mahatma Gandhi was paying his attention only for one community at that time and totally he was biased for them as mentioned in the book), he should continue his protest, dharna, satayagrah whatever until the Mahatma Gandhi being well aware from his thought.
HE has their own reasons which cannot be ignored specially when the INDIA needs the unity in our society and if these things were happening, was unfortunate for INDIA but still he had to be more patient.
While this is not a book in the true sense of the word (it is a statement by Nathuram Godse, given in court as he stood accused of assassinating Mahatma Gandhi), it is perhaps one of the earliest documents that was banned by the government, from being published.
While the statement of Nathuram Godse is the meat of the book — 102 of the 208 pages — has now been released with context, by his brother, Gopal Godse.Like most medium-sized Indian publications, the book suffers heavily from a lack of editorial and design intervention.
The statement by Nathuram Godse is an articulate statement of his reason.
Sometimes I needed to sit with a marker to highlight facts.While no violence can be defended least of all, that of Gandhi.
But it can't be denied that Nathuram put his case very logically.
It also affirmed what I always felt: that Gandhi was not very democratic in his approach.
I felt similarly in the recent Anna Hazare case too.
Ironically, had Nathuram not killed him, Gandhi would have lost his credibility within a couple of years as he was not unbiased in his approach not only for communities but also for persons as was seen in the case of Subhash Chandra Bose.
This work from the accused of Gandhi's assassination deeply cleared the reason for why he should have done that.The time when every sort of Indian trying to get rid of British rule in India, this Bluff-master kept trying his ill instincts to rule the country rather than helping to let us be a free nation.
Whole reality that was given the form of Book by Gopal Godse, shows imaginary views of united, undivided and happy India thatwe would have been the part of; only if this single person was not the part of Indian History, pre-independence.Sir GD Khosla's words that were taken from his book, to include as a part in this book, on the case of Gandhi assassination cleared very well the thoughts of viewers who actually heard Nathuram Godse during case hearing.
The only way to reach a better conclusion is by trying to bring out the gems from both the sides of the divide For me as a student Nadhuram Vinayak Godse has always been the black villian who shot the pure hearted Mahatma Gandhi who lost his life for the freedom of all of us.
some believable like the egoistic personality of the person who is Gandhi, to the might be paedophile , which the chance being really low.What ever be as I started to understand the Mahatma being not so pure, did I decide to understand more of the his contrast, "Nadhuram" .
Sad that no Indian gets to learn this side of the storyIt is very unfortunate that as citizens of India we do not get the opportunity to listen to the other side. Indian history was written by Congress and therefore there is no room given to anything that is against them. Current day politics is still on the same lines. Minority appeasement should stop for a just society to emerge.
Maybe time has justified his acts.
Just so to save one if you kill another, does that make the act morally right?
Or to save many.
Allegedly too many.Maybe he did really deserve it.
There were certainly some mistakes on the part of Gandhiji.And maybe, just maybe, the death he got became more glorified than what time would have granted him otherwise.Nathuram gives his reasoning for the assassination.
The reasoning seems well formed.
This book will change your perception about certain things in history.
To be very honest i am very much influenced by Gandhiji as a person and saw his journey in two different ways, one was his growth as an individual and another one was his political growth.
As a person i still am and will always be under his influence.
But after reading this book I came to understand that some of his political decisions were complete failure.
This book gives u a sort of alternate history that many people are unaware of.
Firstly, I am lucky to get paper copy of this banned book.
This book is not about the moral policing, judgement of action or a personality demeaning book towards Gandhi.
As the title suggests, book reveals the rational Godse behind murdering Gandhi.
Godse's story is inriguing and compelling at the same time.
This book reflects the gray period India went through.
Gandhi was the reason for quite a few attrocious things that India went through.I would not dwell much upon this sensitive topic, but this book is definately a mus read in order to know a clearer history of indepenence of India.
Most people I have discussed Gandhi's murder with have suggested that Nathuram Godse's statement was banned by the Government of India, as it was merely an attempt by a violent Hindu fanatic trying to justify his stance.However after reading this book, I am sure of this, that the real reason this book was banned is not because it is the last statement of a villainous fanatic (atleast that's how he was made out to be) but because it was a rather objective and highly incisive argument that shattered the very image of the man revered across the nation as the "Father of the Nation" and exposed the fallacies of his philosophy in the most unforgiving manner ever.
Let the people decide whether he was right or wrong.For several years these writings or statements were under ban.
People should know about the killing.“The press carried portions of the statement the next day.
After hearing the statement of Godse.
They threatened the persons of true reporting”.Banning or hiding the portions of history is no solution.Just remember there are always two sides to every story.
Everyone should read it, not just Indians.One more thing there is 9 pages kindle version of this book, don't read that one.
Entire statement is more than 120 pages.
Before I start penning my thoughts on this book, let me make it obvious that is no fiction or imagination.
It is indeed the presentation of his own thoughts by Nathuram Godse.
Mr. Godse's love for undivided India was enormous .
His thought independence of India on 15th August 1947 was not an event of happiness or celebration.
Another thought which I find extremely convincing is when a new country of Pakistan was formed on communal basis, why did the leaders kept on chanting secularism.
The very foundation of secularism was killed with creation of a new country on communal basis.
Though it is clear from his tone that Nathuram is a staunch Hindu supporter and his views at times tend to walk on the lines of bigotry.
Killing someone can never be justified but he tries to point out where Gandhi went wrong with his politics.
How he compares Gandhi to the proverbial gambler, who kept raising the stakes just to appease Jinnah, failed miserably but still kept on repeating the same mistakes.
And how Gandhi's policy of non-violence resulted in riots and massacres but he turned a blind eye to it.
Godse connects more with people like Bhagat Singh, Bose etc and believes that Violence is bad, but non-violence is surely hopeless.
This book contains Godse's very eloquent, compelling and heartfelt statement in court, followed by a description of events that happened before and after the judgment.
Having earlier read about Gandhi and the freedom movement only in history books- this book provides a slightly different view of India's struggle for freedom and how every freedom fighter had a different way in mind to achieve it.
Gandhi's principle of non-violence seems impractical and I sympathize with Godse's views as well.
The description of Nathuram Godse and Narayan Apte's last few days in prison tell us about the strength and resolve of his soul.
This is the conversation form of what Nathuram Godse said in court trial for killing Gandhi. His views looked right and needed from his point and perspective but his lack of ability to understand that Gandhi was planning to dissolve Congress and make various parties was not there!Book is worth reading as Nathuram was not a villan; just another citizen who was "done" with the "overpraize of Gandhi" At that time even when Gandhi was involved in division of country
Must readEnlightening read. Very efficiently shows his perspective .Must read for those even remotely interested in contemporary politics. Short and precise.
want to read

A book of history which was hidden from public
This book gives perspective to contemporary history, something that our history textbooks lack.
A tendency to paint people as god or the devil and this is exactly the case with both Mr. Gandhi and Mr. Godse.
That said, Mr. Godse's statement makes a compelling read as it shows how Mr. Gandhi time and again put himself and his ideals above the will of the people.
His passion and love for an undivided India and the Hindu cause are undeniable and he paints a somber picture of the suffering of the Hindus under Mr. Gandhi's policy of appeasement.
All this begs the questions that Mr. Godse also asked, what was the need for Pakistan if India is a secular state?
It's always good to know both sides of a story. So far we have been hearing only one side about the assassination of Gandhi. The book throws light into the political situation prevailing in the country. The facts in the book resonate with those in Freedom at Midnight.
Got to see another view that has been hidden by the powers that are. Good read to understand some of the censored events in history. Gives credence to the quote "History is written by the victors". Gives an account of his view point.
