https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1439770.A_Search_In_Secret_India

Brunton was one of these who India took to her heart. this one of the great spiritual travel writing. his descriptions are vivid and great. one of the best of so many travel books on india
Yet reading it again in 2016 it didn't seem quite so special as I am now a different person-probably as a result of the journey to India that this book inspired me to take.
If you are lost this is one of the books I would recommend.P.S. In May 2018 I read 'My Father's Guru' by Jeffrey Masson who grew up with Dr. Paul Brunton as his personal spiritual adviser.
This book is a warts and all expose of Paul Brunton and I recommend it as a warning that all of us, including Gurus, Godmen and Maharishes are human and have human faults.
Unputdownable!!A must read and must own book.I know I will read this book again.The author has shared his invaluable and spellbounding dialogues with Maharishis and Yogi's. Its a great service to a man kind that the author has shared his experience.
For anyone seeking a spiritual teacher, or even anyone having found the right one, this story is incredibly moving.
Brunton's erudite use of language, coupled with his ruthless inner and outer search, makes this a gripping read from start to finish.
Following an inner call, he spends months travelling around India, interrogating yogis, pundits and fakirs – some genuine and some not so.
His descriptions of the journey alone would make a beautiful travel journal.
But his descriptions of inner experiences are breath-taking, especially those in the company of the great Ramana Maharshi.
Paul Brunton Ph.D. went on a quest to find real Yogis, holy men, in India and try to ascertain their legitimacy.
He describes in detail the Yogis dedicated to spiritual growth and gives brief reviews of those focused on magic and egotism.
He spends the last quarter of the book describing his time with Ramana Maharishee at his small ashram in Tamil India.
During the period of his travel, Gandhi was gaining a huge following but Brunton avoided asides on the political movements except when revolutionary fervor produced violence in his vicinity.Altogether, this is a well written and honest account of travel in India.
This book had been recommended to me about thirty years ago by the father of a close friend, Mr Goss, and I had never sought it out until now.
I am glad I didn't read this book until I was 'ready' for it.
At times Bruntons lack of understanding of the ways of another culture made me cringe especially when it is things that I think even in 1934 were unforgivable.
It is also a good insight into just how much control, respect and power the English had in India at that time.
I loved that this author explored India the way I might. Wanting to find inspiration/insight but always having a skeptical eye. He went quite slowly, as far as explaining the spirituality of gurus. Then, at the end, he LEAPT to some high spirituality. I wish there had been a medium step to bridge the gap. Brunton has many books and I have just requested about 5 of them. I'll write about them as I read them.
I like the writer's style of writing. It is more like a diary and the writer's experience is recorded vividly through his own words. Paul Brunton wrote about his journey to india to explore the secrets of the spiritual world. My prior knowledge in Hinduism and my own experience in India helped me to digest his words easily. Its worth reading if you are interested in yoga, spiritual and mystic.
Wonderful. Tells about British authors strange experiences exploring India. Really makes you think...particuarly for ethnocentric Americans/Brits!I learned that the US/Western way of thinking is not exclusive(or necessarily best)
An enjoyable travelogue. Though it may have widsom it wasn't obvious/densely enough packed for me to search for it.
The yogis and gurus with which Brunton comes into contact often have trouble grasping the Western mindset (there is one notable exception.) What these wise-men have difficulty understanding is why a people, like the British, devote so much time to mastering the external world (and with a great measure of success it must be added), but put so little effort into mastering or understanding the self.
On the other hand, most of the individuals who were easily found, and eager to talk, were just con men.I recommend this book for those interested in development of the mind and body.
A marvellous book, taking us by the hand through an India which had all sorts of contradictions, but also the best and more excellent Human Beings expressing the Wisdom of Perenial Philosophy.
The search for truth and for a suitable, credible Teacher takes Paul Brunton, a Western skeptic, to a journey of Self discovery in which he learns to distinguish betwwen simple fakirs and really Holy Men, culminating with his realisation that Ramana Maharishi is the One who deserves to be recognised as a Holy, Wise and transforming Guru - excatly because he respects his disciple's free will and discrimination.
It is a biography of author's travel in India searching for sages/Yogis. The author beautifully describes his journey with a critical mindset. In this book, you will get introduced to Ramana Maharshi.The book has a lot of old English words which makes it a bit difficult to read. In technical terms, I can call this as a survey paper on different Yogis of India in early 20th Century. :P
I absolutely loved his encounter with Maharishi and the days spent with him. This pages emanate such a special energy. The rest of the book is interesting describing the author quest for true knowledge, for a true spiritual master in India.
Hidden wisdomThis book was poorly written and sometimes hard to follow because the author didn’t separate dialogue and often jumped from on topic to another all in the same paragraph. Nevertheless, there is a great deal of fascinating spiritual knowledge. Some of the information jumps out at you and other you have to astute enough to see what it right in front of you.
My own Guru Pt. Sriram Sharma Acharya, who is the founder of All World Gayatri Parivar used to say, "when you are going out in the market to but vegitables etc you check thoroughly for quality, so why can't you do the same when you go in search of a Guru".
The best part I like about Brunton is the critical questions he asked various spiritual leaders in order to test whether they are actually spiritual or merely taking advantage of the people in the name of religion.This is a great book which presents mutiple faces of India at those times and I would highly recommend it to all spiritual seekers.
The author went up and down India, into jungles, across desserts, all in search of a rishee.
By the time he actually found the rishee, or Maharishee in this case, I was so tired of reading the book that I didn't even realize this was the big deal of the whole story!
But I did learn a lot about India and about the extensive search one goes through, especially in 1937, so find a yogi.
And for that alone - that the author showed me how exhausting and extensive such a search is - I have to give the book 3 stars.
Read this book mentioned in a telugu biography of ramana maharshi.Paul brunton was one of the first westerners to give a first hand account of meeting the maharshi.He was drawn to the sage of arunachala just like the maharshi himself was drawn to the mountain shrine in his teenage.The book describes brunton's various encounters with Indian spiritual masters of the previous century.Must read book for any one interested in Spiritual masters of yester years.
Paul Brunton's account of his search for genuine spirituality in 1920s India was a delightful discovery for me.The writing is exquisite and the sincerity and determination with which he pursues his goal is both inspiring and moving.I can see myself coming back to it again and again.
Such a great spiritual travelogue on India, written before most of them.
Demystify India and what it really is! contemporary Indians have gotta read it.. and understand what their real legacy is, where there come from and why one should be proud of our history.
The author Paul Brunton is a British journalist and philosopher who has made an aim in life to tour various parts of the world and meet the holy saints and learn about the various spiritual teachings they had to offer.
Reading about these saints, their out-of-the world experiences and their spiritual teachings itself is such an awe-inducing thing but there is something even more wonderful than that - Looking back at all the little events that have happened to the author during his trip to India, they all seemed to have happened to align with something that has been pre-ordained for the author i.e they have all collectively enabled the author to continue in his quest to reach out to the learned men and find his true calling.
I consider this book a prequel to `Autobiography of a Yogi` by Paramahansa Yogananda, as the theme and narrative are on the same lines.
One of my SRF friends - an elderly American - made me aware of the fact that this book is not unique in its qualifications to be considered a prequel to Paramahansa Yogananda's book.
etc.I was amused to notice that at least two people - Swami Keshabananda & Ramana Maharshi - are featured in both `Autobiography of a Yogi` and `A search in Secret India.`
Not everyone may get hooked to this book like I did, but if you carry even a little interest in spirituality, Paul Brunton’s “A Search in Secret India” is a treasure chest.
The British journalist and writer makes a voyage to India in the 1930s in search of real yogis and mystics, who may be carrying forward the tradition of the country’s ancient Rishis but who are now few and far.Paul is keenly aware that he may encounter many frauds along the way but is unsure how to spot the genuine mystic/master.
A travelogue that also answers some of life’s fundamental questions, A Search in Secret India is a must read!
The author has taken us through his experience in India of finding a spiritual master.
I have experienced Arunachala before reading this book and so I was inclined to read this.
Somewhere along the book, I got lost in the narrative and slowed down because there was a creative lull but it picked up pace towards the end; though I really wish the author had more to write about the time he spent in Arunachala.
Looking forward to reading some more of his experiences before I chart an opinion but it's a good book.
Like the Finnish translator writes in the beginning - perhaps we don’t run into certain books by accident. Perhaps there are no coincidences at all. This book fit perfectly with my current spiritual state and with events in my life. It was wonderfully written. Full of mind blowing events but the writer does not make you doubt his sincerity. I’m going to read Brunton’s other books as well but it feels that this one is hard to top. Easily a 5 star book.
I liked the way Paul Brunton has presented his journey through India in his search for a spiritual guru. I think the concept of self inquiry and looking inwards for answers are powerful concepts but unless I experience it myself I can never be sure. Still some of the ideas presented by the Maharshee are worth knowing.
A recommendation from a friend based on long conversations... The topic can be described as "sceptical Westerner tours India in search of real mystical faculties" - in the 1930's. I found that the writer was in fact not that sceptical but honestly, for me, that's not the point of the book anyway. I'd see the overall message as "explore and see for yourself". Which is what I plan to do ;)
Beautifully written!It's great to know that the eastern intelligentsia and the ancient wisdom of the rishi's were recognized by Paul brunton which led to the opening of flood gates of Eastern wisdom to the western shores
