https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16351.Towards_Zero
What I had not expected was for Christie to actually question the whole setup of her "typical" story by proclaiming that the story cannot stop with the detection of the murderer but that it needs to reveal the background in order for the story of the murder to be understood.It's almost like Christie used this story to prove that the police investigation needs to include an understanding of the psychology of the characters involved in order to successfully solve the crime.But did she need to do this?
It's been some time since a murder mystery has imposed on my mind so heavily.
Even when this mystery had all its clothes on, you could guess the promise it contained.
As the pages flew by, the time to say goodbye to Inspector Battle came too soon.
I guessed wrongly regarding the culprit.
When an author like Christie has a limited number of brushstrokes at her disposal for painting a character, then one like Treves often walks a fine line between brilliance and parody.
Agatha Christie must generate a happy ending, no matter what.
When I pointed this out my parents suggested that they couldn't really guarantee to be around to hear what I thought of it by then; so, seeing as most Christie novels aren't really interlinked as a series, it seemed fairer to bend the rules slightly and read this one out of order...The story itself jumps straight into classic Christie fare: a large number of people (read: suspects) are gathered together for an unimportant (to us) reason.
The murder itself is the time zero, the events and reasons that lead up to this point are as important as the murder itself.However, this is a book that could have been so much better.
Even though most mysteries start with a murder, actually it is the end - culmination of a lot of events at a common point. Or so says one of the characters in this novel.This is the theme of this book - events moving towards a murder: towards zero.That it starts with a murder is of no matter. By the time one finishes the book, one will understand the appropriateness of the title.This book features my favourite Christie policeman, Superintendent Battle.
আগাথা করিষটিকে রহসযের রাণি বলে, ভুল বলে। বলা উচিত রহসযের মহারানী। উনার একটা একটা বই পড়ি আর ভাবি এই বার ঠিকমতই আনদাজ করতে পেরেছি। তারপরই উনি দেখান কাঁচকলা, ঘটনা এমনসব দিকে যায় যে মাথা ঘুরতে থাকে।সাধারণসব মারডার মিষটরীর দিক হয় খুন থেকে খুনি বের করার দিকে। আগাথার অনেক বইতেও তাই। পরথমে কিছু চরিতরের পরিচয়, এরপর একটা খুন। এরপর ডিটেকটিভ এসে খুনিকে বের করার ফনদি ফিকির করেন। অনেক বই এরকম হলেও এটা না। এটা পুরাই অনয ধরনের।বইটাতে আসলে একটা খুন না, কয়েকটা খুন আছে। সবচেয়ে মজার বযাপার হল শেষ খুনটা খুন না, কি?
আগাথার বই পড়ে মনে হয় No Wasted information.
সব তথ্যই গুরুত্বপূর্ণ। একেবারে ছোট থেকে ছোট একটা কথোপকথন ও খুব গুরুত্বপূর্ন। যে জায়গা পড়ে আপনার মনে হবে, এগুলা শুধু পাতা বাড়ানোর জন্য, ঠিক সেই জায়গাই দেখবেন লেখিকা একটা ক্লু ছেঁড়ে দিয়ে গেছেন।তবে আপনি যদি আগাথার বই এর পুরান পাঠক না হন, তবে এই বইটা শুরুর দিকে আপনাকে টানবে কম। আধা আধি যাবার পর থেকে মজা পাওয়া শুরুর হবে। এরপর আর থামতে হবে না।তবে বই টার শেষ আমার পছন্দ হয় নি। একটু অতৃপ্তি রয়ে গেছে, শেষের দিকে একটা চ্যাপ্টার অহেতুক। কালপ্রিট ধরা পড়ার পরই বইটা শেষ করে দিলে বেশি ভালো হত।
As far as Christie mysteries go somewhat forgettable.
It has all the hallmarks of a classic Christie mystery: colorful characters, mysterious murders, secret pasts, and so on and so forth.
But no aspect of it really stood out, especially compared to all of Christie's other, better mysteries.
It was a perfectly serviceable story but not one of Christie's highlights.Oh, and if you can get a version of this story (or really any Christie mystery) voiced by Hugh Fraser do it.
The man does a fantastic job with all the different British accents and voices, makes even a middling book enjoyable to listen to.
REVIEW SOON.Very much intriguing one.
Brilliant. Elegant and spare like The Body in the Library. No Poirot or Marple, and I did slightly miss them - Superintendent Battle doesn't work as well for me - but is still one of Agatha's best, most well-plotted stories.
4.5What a devilish book this is! It is no secret that Agatha Christie is one of my favourite authors, and in this novel, she truly excels. Slowly, inexorably, all the pieces of the chess, or mystery, are put in place awaiting the final scene - the murder - but things are of course not what they appear. The tension grows while all these characters meet, cross and finally come together. No Poirot present, although mentioned, but a very competent Superintendent Battle.This is definitely one of her best. The less you know, the better the experience :0)
Ono kad se poklopi slobodna nedelja, prazan splav, ladno pivo s limunom i odlična knjiga.Sasvim pristojan letnji dan u Beogradu.Da stvar bude neobičnija, jedna napomena vezana isključivo za ovo jeftino izdanje uz Blic Ženu,Prevod opet Liber Novus ( s kojima već vodih rat ovde zbog očajnih prevoda). Ovaj put prevodilac potpisan i prevod mnogo kvalitetniji nego u prethodnim izdanjima.Sve ide na bolje.
Nevile is newly married to a second wife (Kay) and they are making plans to visit his former guardian's widow, Lady Tressilian.
Lady Tressilian loved Nevile's first wife Audrey, and Kay is arguing against visiting her.
When it comes out that Audrey suggested that they both visit Lady Tressilian in September (during her normal visit) Nevile is happy that they can maybe finally be friends.
Kay is angry about the visit and exclaims that Audrey still wants Nevile.
Christie introduces other characters into this, Mary Aldin who is Lady Tressilian's maid.
That said, the book was really good.
I'm starting to get a pretty good idea of what Agatha Christie's narrative style is: you take a cast of characters, give them some motivation, have a murder, and solve it all through talking and *psychology*, more or less.
It's an interesting idea and Agatha Christie takes care to shows us events months before the murder and how the characters slowly make their way to the isolated house where someone will be killed.I'm not sure if it was me or the less than stellar translation (I unfortunately read the Rao edition), but I found "Towards Zero" a bit difficult to follow in the beginning, as I got lost in the who's who of characters.
Re-read 23.09.2017 From 4 to 5 stars.None of the books I'm currently reading have been drawing me in during the past few days, making me watch movies and Buzzfeed Unsolved instead, so I felt like continuing my little project of re-reading a few of my favorite Christies.Towards Zero is a bit different with Superintendent Battle as the main crime solver (mind you, influenced by Poirot's methods), and although he comes across as a bit bland with no distinct personality, the case itself is excellent (despite the creepy and pointless ending).
I breezed through this in two days, and now I feel a bit jittery.
I found the structure of this novel interesting and wonder if anyone reading it guessed the murderer or worked it out?
I found there were very little clues in this novel.
I found there was only one real clue and this was revealed very late in the novel.
It was an interesting way to structure the novel and keep the novel such a page turned.I loved the character of Mr Treves, he was intriguing to me and someone I wish I heard more from.
Superintendent Battle is a wonderful character, a very logical thinker not easily taken in by fads.
Add in a whole cast of characters and you have so many suspects you don't know what you're going to do.The book is generally, really good, with interesting characters and a strong plot, except for two things:One, Mr Treves, the guy who introduces the idea of "Zero Hour" dies halfway through the book.
I don't mind if Audrey ends up alone forever, she's not a favourite character of mine anyway.Basically, this was a generally awesome book because it was a departure from Agatha Christie's normal books.
This is the third Agatha Christie novel I've picked up...
It was more in tune with Murder on the Orient Express in the sense that the book built up until a jaw-dropping finale, but lacked the certain addictive spark for the better part of the story.The concept of this book was brilliant, and the idea to execute it was clever.
until I realised that the murder wouldn't occur until well into the book and then it would take until the very, very final chapter for everything to fully make sense.
The ending was mind-blowing, but the beginning was a little lackluster and I never really came to care for any of the characters.
So between the talking, about the deaths of two people, and descriptions of the multiple suspects, this novel is a continuous info-dump.
Or on a reality show in a house they supposedly can't leave until they get voted - or killed - off.) Anyhow, in this story the talkers/murder suspects include a tennis star, his wife, his former wife, her friend, his friend, the wealthy lady's companion and a handful of servants.
The police don't enter the scene until rather late but then they talk, too.
In fact I'd say about 75% of this book is talking.There's a also a would-be suicide who's introduced late in the story and I was like, what?
Towards Zero could be called a classic whodunit - a murder mystery, multiple suspects each with the motive and the means.
Midway through, I was already constructing situations in my head over which character would be murdered in order to deliver the maximum tension, so crucial to a book of this genre.The case analysis, clue-finding, examining suspects, building logical scenarios are what draw me most to mysteries & whodunits.
It felt too obvious, too simplistic, even superficial.
Twists and unexpected endings are practically expected in this genre.
But Towards Zero's conclusion felt too thin, too up-in-the-air for my taste.
قصة متوسطة المستويأكثر ما يضايقني فيما يماثل هذه القصة البوليسية هي إصرار المؤلف دائما علي إعطاء القارئ معلومات منقوصة لا تجعله قادر علي التوصل إلي شخصية القاتل و يقوم بإخفاء معلومات معيتة و مقصودة لجعله تائها طوال الوقت ، وهذا نوع من الإستسهال الشديد و لا يوجد فيه أي إبداع أو إبتكار ، في حين أن الكاتب المتمكن فعلا يقوم بإعطاء القارئ كل المعلومات الممكنة و مع ذلك يجعله غير قادر علي التوصل إلي حل اللغز
TW: SuicideWant a love triangle and insta-love in one book? Christie was all over that before we were born.Not her best work - things got stupidly convoluted by the end. And I think this may be the most red herrings she's ever packed into one book.My 2010 copy is a reprint of the 1944 first edition. On the flyleaf is some hilarious WWII propaganda telling the reader to listen to the BBC because that's the only place you'll get truth in reporting. None of this false news the enemy sends out. Trump would be proud.
Je ne connaissais que l'adaptation ITV qui introduit Miss Marple et était curieuse de lire l'original.
Not the best story, but I did like the resolution of the murder.

I thoroughly enjoyed the unraveling of this puzzle. There were many times when I 'leaned in' while listening. I loved Hugh Fraser's expressive narration and perfect pace.
"Cinta berubah jadi benci, lebih mudah dari yasng anda kira."Reread again"Baik hati orang itu," kasta Dr. Lazenby "meninggalkan senjatanya,- meninggalkan sidik jarinya disitu- heran ia tidak meninggalkan kartu namanya."Well, salah satu novel dengan penggunaan psikologi terbalik..Best..
Towards Zero*A Standalone Novel by Agatha Christie*I read this book immediately after finishing ‘And Then There Were None’, regardless to say, I was so hyped…This is some Grade A First Class Writing standard, I mean, Chrisitie isn’t called Queen of Mystery/Crime/Suspense for no reason.
Christie doesn’t bore the readers with something repetitive and copied, there’s always a sense of reading original, rational and reinvented work and this was certainly highlighted in the novel.
Agatha Christie takes into consideration every single detail to make sure that the readers stay entertained and the story seems real and practically possible.
Yes, you guessed it right, Agatha Christie!I had bought Towards Zero last month as it was the Book Of The Month on the official Agatha Christie page but due to previous obligations, I could finish it only now.It goes without saying that I thoroughly enjoyed the read.
But is he the real culprit or has someone been plotting this murder meticulously to frame him?What I LikedThe book begins with the introductions of characters and one wonders how they all come together in the story.
But yes, Superintendent Battle executes it Poirot style and also mentions him in the story.Would I Recommend It?Of course!
I got to thinking, boy, she is still bitter about her divorce but then looked up the dates.
Divorced 1928, this book 1944.
This was the final Superintendent Battle book, a series of just 5 books that had started in 1925.
I had not read one of these before, so now I have had my Battle.I shall not spoil book for others, so here it is briefly--The cast of characters is slowly introduced over the first one third of the book, and as a storm gathers, one foresees possible trouble to come in the seaside location where all these individuals separately plan to spend some vacation time.
A favorite prompt from the last 3 years - Mystery.A group are discussing a recent court case and one man says that a murder mystery should NOT begin with the murder.
A great many events had to happen to lead everyone to the event, that is, moving "towards zero" hour.
What follows is the account of all the events leading up to a murder.
Why would a man and his 2nd wife visit his elderly foster mother at a time when he knows his 1st wife always visits?
3/5 stars"Pembunuhan itu sendiri merupakan akhir dari ceritanya. Itulah Titik Nol-nya." (p. 275)Kirain pembunuhan disini gara2 masalah warisan, ternyata gak se-sepele itu. Bahkan pembunuhan ini terjadi sudah direncanakan jauh2 hari sebelumnya. Pelajarannya: - jangan meninggalkan terlalu banyak barang bukti di TKP pembunuhan, walaupun memudahkan polisi, justru itu menimbulkan kecurigaan. Haha
