https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2232479.You_Can_Negotiate_Anything
However, this short book is refreshingly concise, and offers a lot of valuable wisdom for negotiations.
legitimacy (the written word, lawyers/law department, policies, rules, even laws), while appearing inflexible, can still often be negotiated.
We should remember that all rules were themselves the product of negotiations.
When you yourself negotiate, try and use legitimacy to your advantage.
2. reasons and arguments aren't very persuasive unless they resonate with people's goals and desires.
Use others' perceived deadlines to your advantage.5.
To negotiate collaboratively, and find a mutual "win", understand people's unique circumstances and interests.
Don't negotiate with yourself.
The author claims to present some unethical techniques so the user can identify, but no utilize them.
Simply, when battled with evil, you may want to resort to immorality to balance things out and this is not something I would like to be responsible for.This book sank from 2 stars to 1 star because of the author's offensive content against some people and groups.
I definitely do not support this kind of behavior.Also, the author claims to have a way for everything, which is not the case.
His ways are not really as magical and things do not end as well in real life as he glamorizes them to.
Just because the store puts a sign up doesn’t mean you (or they) have to abide by it.
A lot of times when we’re negotiating, we think it’s just a matter of whose number wins, but it’s really a lot more complicated than that.
Different people have different needs, and meeting both parties’ needs doesn’t have to be mutually exclusive.At 255 pages, it’s not a terribly long book, and it reads pretty quickly.
Cohen writes with wit and the lessons you learn make the time invested worth it.
Excellent instructive book. Teach us different kind of negotiation and how to handle them.Clearly, people who complain about this book haven't read 1/3 of it... After I bought the book I red the comments and I was disappointed about this book might not be as good as I expected. However, critics against it are B.S.
Interesting, though probably rather obvious to people more savvy than I am about such things. The basic point is that usually one can achieve a win-win situation- IF one is trying for that rather than a win-lose. There are definitely some tips for making this happen- and for recognizing when someone else is not cooperative with that. I was pleased to discover that in some ways I'm doing the "right thing" instinctively, though I appreciate the tips.
I think some of the strategies mentioned in the book are rather useful. I have used some of them to avoid being taken advantage of the other people. Some the examples in the book are rather dated and his strategies on getting out of a speeding ticket you can't really do them anymore. It isn't a prefect book, but it does give some ideas on how to interact with other cultures, lessen the chances you will be taken advantage, and gives you some basic strategies.
I don't have impression about this book.
O carte extraordinara cu niste lectii fine de psihologie. Usor de citit, inteles si aplicat in viata de zi cu zi, cartea lui Herb Cohen ar trebui parcursa de fiecare.
Extremely useful. Mind sharpening tool to master.
It is the use of information and power to affect behavior within a "web of tension." If you think about this broad definition, you'll realize that you do, in fact, negotiate all the time both on your job and in your personal life." Herb then summarizes the three pillars of negotiation, the main premise of the book: "In every negotiation in which you're involved—in every negotiation in which I'm involved—in fact, in every negotiation in the world (from a diplomatic geopolitical negotiation to the purchase of a home)—three crucial elements are always present: 1.

I bought this book because Herb Cohen (the author) was name dropped on several episodes in Silicon Valley \_(ツ)_/. To my pleasant surprise however, the book was really great!It's packed with insightful information on how to be a better negotiator - both privately and in business. I especially liked how he displayed multiple ways of styles, for example "soviet style" vs "win-win", and what the pro's and con's were for both. Some of the examples you have to see what matches your lifestyle though.
I bought this book because Herb Cohen (the author) was name dropped on several episodes in Silicon Valley ¯\_(ツ)_/¯.
To my pleasant surprise however, the book was really great!It's packed with insightful information on how to be a better negotiator - both privately and in business.
I especially liked how he displayed multiple ways of styles, for example "soviet style" vs "win-win", and what the pro's and con's were for both.
Some of the examples you have to see what matches your lifestyle though.
Bargaining over a fridge for example isn't something I'm super interested in myself, but it's interesting to see how he would execute it.
My learnings from this book:Everything is negotiable.Avoid Soviet-style negotiators, i.e. those who treat a negotiation as a win-lose war than a win-win.Do not waste time negotiating with lackeys who do not have power to give concessions. Escalate and talk to managers.Behave like you know more than the other side.Hint that you have an option to walk away.Make it hard for the other party to say "No". This can be done by 1) making them invest a lot of time in the discussion, and 2) slowing down while forcing the other party to a deadline.
What’s with the negativity around this book? It’s brilliant and provides a wide spectrum of advice sometimes deviating from just negotiation techniques, and applies to life in general as well. There are some parts that got me laughing as well! If you read between the lines, there are lessons on life, chicken soup stuff and teach you how to improve your EQ. Definitely love the episode where he runs from the Mexican serape! Enjoyable read!
There was nothing new in this books, the same that we have been using for a long time and that we have seen in society and are being used by some people. It basically describes the psychology between the two persons, the one who wants to negotiate and the other. And some of the concepts described are not even moral, means if you use them it shows that you are not a man of character. I don't recommend it to others, I also won't read it again.
Good read for learning the art of negotiation, The author talks about three elements to keep you ahead of your counterpart viz. Information, Time and Power, the book also covers how one should talk some risk while negotiating and break free from its past experience and challenges to raise your aspirations and expectations. Real life example including the some of the top level war negotiation shows why the negotiation works.
Một cuốn sách tuyệt vời nói về cách đàm phán trong cuộc sống!Các thủ thuật nhỏ rất hay trong việc đàm phán mua bán3 biến số ảnh hưởng tới việc đàm phán cực kỳ hữu íchCác phương pháp trong đàm phán đưa ra cho ta biết cụ thể nên đàm phán như thế nào để và để phòng các trường hợp bị bất lợi trong đàm phán.Đây là một cuốn sách mà bất cứ ai cũng nên đọc, nó giúp ích rất nhiều cho cuộc sống.
Randomly found on a buddy’s bookshelf. Full of chuckle-worthy anecdotes that recall the spirit of one’s old man, uncle or grandpa. Definitely written a while ago based on of the social norms mentioned and terms used. That said gives a broad outline on negotiation and basic tips, ideas and strategies with plenty of examples. Fun and easy to read.
Unlike "Getting to YES," which is a guidebook based on theory and extensive research, "You Can Negotiate Anything" is the memoir of the immensely experienced negotiator. Throughout 250 pages, Herb convinces that you may play a greater role in your life by talking to people on every occasion when it's beneficial to you.Many examples, engaging conversation-style writing, easy to read.
This was an audible book. The author also narrated it. His thick northeast accent made for an entertaining listen, but it also reminded me of a slicked back guy pushing pink sheet stocks to senior citizens. His thoughts seemed mostly a rehash of ideas I have seen elsewhere. One major place being Getting to Yes and Getting Past No.
Dated but still rings true. Nuggets of Truth:Let me inside your thinkingI'll deal with that fire when it catchesNo man is rich enough to buy back his pastBenefit radically People tend to reciprocate niceties Deal fatigue
This book is a wonderful. It’s concise, and focuses solely on the art negotiation. This has benefits for all people, but especially for those involved in negotiating as a profession. I definitely recommend this book. It was very good.
Really great sales book. Simple, concise, applicable. It does a good job of studying people and creating selling principles on the basis of those observations. Really down to earth and not super rah rah in its approach.
Cohen makes some good points. Many of the examples are too specific and too out-of-date to be useful. The book could have been 1/3rd of the size and contributed added value. Actually, it would have contributed more value because I would have saved a few hours. LOL.
Basic idea here is to make everything sound official, deadlines are a joke and try to understand the people you are negotiating with and their reasons. Nothing novel here but the book was interestingly written in a way that pulls you in.
Entertaining, easy read with negotiating techniques that anyone can use. This book is not just for professional salesmen, it is for everyone since we all have to do some form of negotiating from time to time.
A bit dated now (cf all the references to the soviets and how ruthless they are) but still handy with an unforgettable first chapter about negotiating on the price of a fridge in a fixed price store.
This book looked a bit dated and I have to admit a certain level of skepticism picking it up so many years after it was published. It didn't help that I had a dusty old copy.. Nonetheless I enjoyed this quick read and found the content I found the content to be reasonable.
Very good intro book for business negotiation. It is mind-broadening.
A fun read from a real character!
