https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10392644-babylon-revisited
But during that period he had already made his mark on the literary world.“Babylon Revisited” comprises three stories: Babylon Revisited, The Cut-Glass Bowl and The Lost Decade.
You have got to read the story to fully enjoy it.Fitzgerald's short story was later adapted into a film called "The Last Time I Saw Paris" (1954), starring Elizabeth Taylor and Van Johnson.
If it was up to me I would have probably made The Cut-Glass Bowl into the lead story and titled the book after it, the reason being that I enjoyed it even more than Babylon Revisited.
The entire story revolves around the cut-glass bowl.
Is it weird that I enjoyed reading this short story more than I enjoyed reading The Great Gatsby?
Fitzgerald was in fact in a situation like this after his most alcoholic years, cleaning up and trying to get his sister-in-law to give him his daughter back.I really like thinking about the work an author does to turn a true circumstance into solid fiction, which requires so many more things than nonfiction.
To make art out of life, much more structure is needed to deliver its message, and timing of the things that happen must be more controlled.
Six months is so short to wait, but so much can be ruined.I happened to read this on a day that left me a rather bitter disappointment: one that said to wait.
"Babylon Revisited" contains three short stories by F Scott Fitzgerald - "The Cut-Glass Bowl", "The Lost Decade" and the title story.
As the story goes on we find out what happened to the mother and if you know anything about Fitzgerald's life you'll notice parallels between the story and his own life where he tried (and failed) to get his children back and overcome his alcoholism.Alcohol abuse is the overarching theme in these stories with a punch bowl playing a part in pivotal moments of a troubled family's life in "The Cut-Glass Bowl" while "The Lost Decade" subtly but terrifyingly showing how addiction robs a person of their life.The book itself is very dinky, a small paperback that's a decent introduction to one of the 20th century's finest writers but new readers to Fitzgerald would do well to seek out his most famous and greatest accomplishment, "The Great Gatsby".
despre un tată care a cedat cu un an și jumătate în urmă, din cauza dependenței de alcool, custodia asupra fetiței sale în vârstă de nouă ani.
Numai că acum eforturile lui Charlie de a-și lua fetița înapoi sunt mult îngreunate de atitudinea ostilă a mătușii fetiței, Marion Peters, sora soției sale moarte.
Poate că Fitzgerald nu și-a dorit să fie atât de „patetic” în scrierea sa, dar mie mi-a atins o coardă sensibilă „Întoarcerea la Babilon”.
Scott Fitzgerald nu m-a interesat niciodată, dar se pare că povestirea asta e inspirată din propria lui experiență.
Poate de aceea a și reușit să surprindă atât de bine emoțiile lui Charlie.
Scott Fitzgerald but I didn't know much about his work at this time since I was 11 years old when I first read it.
After rereading this story I realized how I forgot this book after all this time.
I did like how the main character (Charlie) admits to having one alcoholic drink a day as that shows how the character has grown from his party days and time in a sanatorium.
There were times that Marian (Charlie's sister-in-law) annoyed me tremendously as she was incredibly hostile toward Charlie for spending time in a sanatorium or having had a drinking problem in the past.
It appears as though some authors should have left it at that one book that made them famous.
This little freebie (three short stories by F Scott Fitzgerald, the last of which was so short as to barely deserve comment) was entertaining and interesting. Though at times the prose was drowning in style, at the heart of the two longer stories - the titular tale and 'The Cut Glass Bowl' - was some very well-observed aspects, a sharp wit, and (esp. in the latter) a creepy darkness that reminded me slightly of Roald Dahl's short stories. I'm not sure I'll rush to read something novel-length by this author, but this was a decent wee read.
Three great short stories. My favorite was the second one about the giant glass cut bowl and the impact it had on the family. The first set in Paris tells the story of a father trying to get his daughter back. How he recalls why she is a ward of his dead wife’s sister and the mistakes he made. I am curious now to read more short stories from this author.
This mini collection had three of F. Scott Fitzgerald’s short stories in it – the title story, as well as The Cut-Glass Bowl and The Lost Decade. I’ve read The Great Gatsby and I enjoyed it, but reading these made me realise I want to work my way through the rest of his books, too. If anything, I think his short stories might be better than his long-form fiction. Good stuff.
How can you not love Fitzgerald? The sheer irony, meticulously sewn characters, and the fantastic magical writing leaves me wanting more every time. Babylon Revisited has to be one of my favourite short stories of all time. The Cut Glass a close second. "He thought rather angrily that this was just money--he had given so many people money. . . ."
So I really don’t like Fitzgerald’s other work (or him as a person to be honest), but this moved me. Exquisitely well written and just vulnerable - I could see this shining honesty come through. I felt so much; I feel so much. This story is going to stick with me for a while. Still, it lost a star for being slightly pretentious.
"I am the exception that proves no rules, the limits of your control, the condiment in the dish of life." The book is pretty straight-forward and simple, arching the idea of Alcohol abuse as the central theme of the three following short stories: Babylon Revisited, Cut-glass Bowl, and The Lost Decade. The first short story is inspired by the author's true story of gaining custody of her daughter over the latter's aunt. After reading the collections did I know that Fitzgerald suffered this kind
After reading the collections did I know that Fitzgerald suffered this kind of episode at one point of his life.In addition, this also seen the bitter reality of the year where the Great Depression started.
It may lack development, or the transition from the Golden Years, but the stories, no matter how concise, depicted the frustrations of its people suffering from this hardship, emanating the sentiments of how fast The American Boom went by.Try these short reads - you will know why F.
Scott Fitzgerald is considered a classic, and a required read to American students.
Given me by a mate who got it free from some newspaper.It has three stories in actually!
The title one was great, a fromer drunk, and widower in Paris tries to get his daughter back from the custody of his sister in law and husband.
It has marvellous dialogue sequences with the daughter which showed great insight and reminded me of Salinger's later stories about children (eg the Bananafish one).
The second one too was a gem 'The Cut Glass Bowl' although maybe a mite contrived (the bowl given the heroine by a spurned lover turns up in crucial ways at turning points of her life).
Scott Fitzgerald, after reading The Great Gatsby at the beginning of the year.This book is a tiny 76 pages and contains 3 short stories: Babylon Revisitied, The Cut-Glass Bowl and The Lost Decade.Although I am glad that I read this collection, it isn’t something that I love or hate; this book contains stories that just didn’t seem to have any impact on me at all and I find them completely forgettable unfortunately.
The writing was really enjoyable but due to the lack of plot and character development in each of the stories, I found the collection quite bland and lack-lustre for me personally.
A very revealing set of three stories with strong autobiographical elements, written towards the end of F Scott Fitzgerald's career. The title story is longest of the three, and spends some time is scene-setting, but makes up for this lengthy prologue in its cutting conclusion. The other two stories, both shorter, are more pointed - the Cut-Glass Bowl a wandering into the consequences of materialism in the 1920s, and the Lost Decade an entertaining step back, asking what might America (and Americans) look like without the Great Depression of the 1930s.
This is pretty much Inception without Inception. Babylon Revisited is the story of a father trying to win back his children. Although, instead of an action packed blockbuster, it's a depressing saga of the aftermath of a pointless life of parties during the roaring 20s.It's everything you expect from Fitzgerald.
The reader’s impression of Charlie as an accountable man diminishes soon after he faces his contradictions; Charlie’s ambivalent behaviors reveal his vulnerability, and the maturity he pursues remains incomplete.In “Babylon Revisited,” Charlie Wales returns to Paris from Prague, where he is once again financially successful after an economic crisis with the hope of regaining his child, Honoria.
However, the readers notice that Charlie is the one who is responsible for leaving his brother-in-law’s address at the Ritz bar, and Duncan Schaeffer and Lorraine Quarrels’ appearance at the Peters’s apartment would never happen without it (Harrison).
With the realistic time period, there were also very well-developed characters and character relationships.One could tell Marion despised Charlie from the first time the two spoke in this story, which added a certain depth to the experience, especially during their argument over who would get custody over Honoria.
Fitzgerald forced readers to keep changing their opinions of certain people, especially Charlie, as more information was given to help the reader understand the character.
As someone who rarely reads historical fiction pieces, this impressed me with its depth- especially considering the relatively short length of the story.
I wish you and I could be on better terms." This short story illustrates a father's desire to be apart of his daughter's life again.
Charlie was originally deemed not capable of raising her due to his lifestyle, but he has since had a change of heart and is trying to make that apparent to his daughter's guardians.
This short story was fantastic.
I found myself rooting for Charlie throughout the story, and it was heartbreaking at times to see him struggle in vain for the right to see his own daughter.
It's 3 short stories 'Babylon Revisited', 'The Cut-Glass Bowl' and 'The Lost Decade'.
The style of writing is well done but not to my liking.
The reader had to make quite a lot of mental leaps to grasp the story as there is little setting up of the plot or characters.The first story, Babylon Revisited, did draw me in but then the ending was so abrupt that I felt like it was a short story because the ending was omitted.
I though maybe it was the production but I understand now that this is the writing style of F.
I love Fitzgerald! I have made a new tradition of reading one of his books every January. His writing style is absolutely beautiful, and this collection of short stories is no exception. The stories are classy and desperate and as lovely as they are sad. Nicely compact as well, I managed to read it on a train in one day.
Like most classics - this is highly descriptive and only a very small story line. Just like catcher in the rye was a classic and it was mostly teen angst and no real plot, this at least has a plot line - but it is very small. Very well written and descriptive, but not something I will read again.
So first off, I don’t think I’m a short story kinda girl.. I sort of liked this because of the way it tied into my American Lit course, but it wasn’t amazing. Certainly not up there with Gatsby. Let’s see if I prefer Hemingway!
Sad, sad, oh so sad! I couldn't help but feel the autobiographical mess Fitzgerald must have mucked through to get these words on paper. Heart wrenching- and even more so when you know this train had 9 more years of being off the rails.
A short story based around love and loss, in all its shapes and forms, the dealing with its consequences on the conscious during transitional phases, and moving forward with life... An enjoyable read for a Sunday afternoon.
This was my first look into the writing of F. Scott Fitzgerald and I found myself really enjoying the style in which he wrote. The stories themselves were quite haunting in their own way and really reflected upon the perhaps more solemn side of the jazz age.
Nothing can make me as happy and sad at the same time as reading Fitzgerald. His stories have a sense a melancholy to them, especially if one can find some relation in them to his life. There are few authors who can write so beautifully, yet so purely. His prose is astonishing, yet it doesn’t feel forced. His stories read like you’re having a conversation with him and he’s telling you a story, it’s so natural. This short collection wasn’t an exception. It was perfect from the first word to the last.
Read for Am Lit 252
learned a new word, snowbird
