https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5130.Island
The theme is pure Huxley: intelligent, open-minded man gets shipwrecked on a remote tropical island where the native population has managed to create a utopia.
The main problem I have with "Island" is its complete departure from the novel form.
If anything, the best part of the book is when the main character, Will Barnaby, takes the "moksha-medicine" and goes into a psychedelic trance.
All we can do is learn the art of being irrational in a reasonable way." I think that's cool!And one more thing Beatles fans:There is a "Dr. Robert" in the book who is one of the main characters.
This "sci-fi" (Huxley couple were not happy that this work was considered a science fiction) utopian novel is a vehicle to deliver what Huxley believed to be The answer to one of the most critical questions of our existence - we know the present value systems are fucked up but what is the alternative?
The systems suggested are ingenious as such (even while they are derivative) and thought provoking, if the book is an initiation to the alternate world-views presented here (and the book did serve as an introduction for much of the western audience at that time).
Or rather I've finally figured out how to find lots of books that I'll love.
This book is like a savory meal that is extremely good for you.
Hardin's 'Tragedy of the Commons' comes to mind, or more a massive extension on its logic in a world where there's a country that fully accepts it.
The world is too bogged down by those who don't appreciate the logic and genius reasoning behind all this.
Perhaps it's a bit much to apply it to book reviews.
But hey, I love this book.
Or indeed predicting the epidemic of chair related illnesses due to people not being physically active enough, Huxley's Utopia is built around the human and what the human needs to function healthily, while his earlier Dystopia was structured around a steady state economy - there the humans had to be shaped in the womb and thoroughly socially conditioned in order to be fit and appropriate economic actors.A book is an invitation into an author's life and in this case we can transit from a mental world transfixed by industrialisation and maintaining consumption societies to one frightened of over population, and environmental destruction.
I'm not even finished with this and already it has had a profound effect on me. I resonate with this book like Cat's Cradle or Stranger in a Strange Land. It will take me two or three more reads—at least—to grok it in fullness, but it already feels as if some of the thoughts were for me, some of me. It's been a very long time since I fell so profoundly in love with a book, and it's a delicious, delightful, very spiritual experience.
3,5 ***opinião em breve
The book is basically just an essay on politics, science, philosophy, religion, society, man, and ultimately, Utopia, masked as a novel.
However, the debate set forth by Huxley is more than a little intriguing, and should definitely hold the attention of anyone who has dreamed of a better life for the world and the people in it.
Life requires a healthy amalgam of all these areas.This was Huxley's last book (published a year before his death), and it is quite beautiful to see that his parting thoughts were of that tiny shard of hope (and, dare I say, optimism) that Man can indeed achieve happiness.
Whatever the precise definition of the “novel” concept might be, it certainly does not hold “Island” as its epitome.
It is comprehensible.After the release of the acclaimed dystopia known as “Brave New World”, Huxley’s name became forever imprinted into the respectable hall of fame of science fiction writing, which might have hindered his prospects into finding other ways to convey his own opinions.
Together, the palanese (Huxley himself) attempt to imprint within his mind their own interpretation of reality.Huxley’s tale about a utopian society based in oriental philosophy is not a fictional narrative in its traditional sense.
However, it was one of those books that struck me like lightning and forever change the way I frame the world and our society.So a re-read…Island is an active dialogue between relatively few characters who bring Huxley’s Perennial Philosophy to a narrative form.
There is really so much wisdom embedded in these pages, that often this novel could be read like any piece of philosophic or religious text.In one scene the children of Pala are actively moving scarecrows to protect their crops.
That is, while it is certainly naïve to assume human beings will ever solve all of their important problems, it also cannot be denied that these problems are all too often caused by social choices we have made.
And so, it is perfectly reasonable to assume that some problems may be solved by making different choices, etc.
Huxley gives us a society of human beings that are less alienated from their environment, their communities, themselves.
Huxley gives us a culture that is thoughtfully organized, with solutions to some of the world’s most important social problems.
It seems to me both novels develop, in different ways, the same thesis: that mankind cannot stay beauty.
After identifying all the wrongs in human civilisation and finding a solution for every one of them, Pala becomes a true terrestrial paradise, whose inhabitants are in permanent touch with nature and themselves helped by (this time) a beneficial drug, moksha medicine, and by a deep and original understanding of Tantra philosophy: If you’re a Tantrik, you don’t renounce the world or deny its value; you don’t try to escape into a Nirvana apart from life, as the monks of the Southern School do.
And it is only natural to be this way, since the purpose of the society has never, never been to turn its members into “full-blown human beings”:What are boys and girls for in America?
Pala, Huxley's fictitious South Asian island nation, is the societal equivalent of an ecosystem, the complex networks of each community rely on mutual dependence, a form of structured anarchism.
Huxley's point in BNW is expanded in Island, where only by using moksha autonomously can one finally understand the oneness of things.While Island portrays Pala in an overwhelmingly positive light, the specter of invasion by the neighboring authoritarian state of Rendang is inevitable.
Is it worth trying to create a better, pacifist society knowing the invasion inevitably comes?
BRAVE New World is one of my all time favourite books so when I bought this one it seemed like a no-brainer.
A word of warning to anyone considering reading this though...
I found that the story got me thinking a lot and I often had to pause to consider what I had read.
This book took me a long time to get through because I could never sit down and read a hundred pages- I had to have breaks.
It's a really great book and whilst it is not as good as Brave New World (in my eyes at least) I would recommend it to any Huxley fans.
The community are exceptionally kind and open to Will Farnaby and show him that true happiness is found when you embrace life to the full and learn to love yourself and mankind.
Aldous Huxley must have known that this was going to be his last book as death seems to be a major theme.
Will Farnaby learns that death does not have to be depressing or traumatic, it can be a celebration of someone's life as they take a journey into the unknown.
Lots of ideas are derived from Eastern philosophy.Such a society does not shun all technology, however.
Genetic modification and contraception are common, but to pass on good qualities instead of enforcing superiority or inferiority.Most notably, instead of soma being used to make the populace dumb and happy, they are used as a means of personal growth and experimentation.
Compassion and faith seem to be the cornerstones of this society, not ideology or advancement.Island's influence is very clear as an archetype of psychedelic drug fiction.
Huxley knows only too well what happens to the people of loving-happiness, eternal compassion and attention compared to the advance of the Other.
This book gets at an essential that many of us have not taken the time to absorb - but that is evident in the background should we choose to make the effort to observe it - like the saying the democracy depends on a well informed electorate and Albert Einstein's quote: "peace cannot be kept by force; it can only be achieved by understanding."I choose to believe that the ending is just the future truth being revealed by the moksha-medicine, and that Will wakes up and takes actions that allow the little heaven on earth to still be in existence, resilient to the ever-present outside forces trying to get in and corrupt/conquer.
I felt the result was slightly disappointing.While all dystopias and utopias are comments on society, and almost all utopia/dystopia authors have an agenda which they would like the reader to come to after reading the work, most do so in a more subtle manner.
While I agree with many of the ideas shown in the story, I felt that Huxley didn't present them, but preached them.
This preaching seemed both at odds with the ideas Huxley was pushing, and weakened the rest of the story by sacrifing things such as well rounded characters.
About a utopian SE Asian island society on the cusp of being corrupted by exploitation of oil. Reads more like a socio-political manifesto than a novel. The plot, such as it is, is just an excuse to contrive situations for characters to explain their life, philosophy, culture etc, rather than the driving force. This also means that none of the characters are very convincing because they are almost incidental caricatures (and many of them are too good to be true).
And it's not to say that they aren't better, but really, nothing happens but a lot of talking and I have enough talking in my day-to-day life and don't feel any better or smarter for it.I was disappointed, not in so much that the story sucked, but because really Huxley covered the same themes that he did in Brave New World.
This felt like Huxley was sort of sick of having Brave New World compared to Nineteen Eighty-Four so much that he wanted to write something "new" and "improved"...
Brave New World.I wonder if Huxley was familiar with irony?
međutim, dobih sasvim suprotno :) imam je na polici još od sajma 2014, kud je ne uzeh ranije u šake!?Elem, čovek je pre više od pola veka govorio o stvarima koje me trenutno veoma zanimaju, pa sam se čitajući konstantno oduševljavala govoreći u sebi "da li je moguće, pa upravo o ovom sam razmišljala juče!?"...Yoga, meditacija, kontemplacija, pozitivan stav, prisutnost i uživanje u trenutku - ( genijalna ptica minah koja poziva na pažnju :) ), život u skladu sa prirodom...sve što se danas može naći u većini knjiga sa tematikom popularne psihologije...a opet pisano toliko ranije..
Znači da je suština ista :D
As part of the experience, we looked at the Lost Book Club offerings and noticed that Aldous Huxley's "Island (Perennial Classics) was included.
Although most of us growing up in the 1960s were more likely to have read his more famous "Brave New World;" his last novel, "Island" is also worth a read.
One of the lasting memories from the novel involved the talking parrots that inhabit Huxley's idyllic island, Pala.
whether it's your first time reading, or you're diving back in after a long absence, it's definitely worth a read.
I was happily reading this book and then going along feeling like I was on an Island.
And then it happened...Aldous Huxley.
There's a message in all of his books and I already knew the message for this one: which society is better?
Some combination of the 2?Reading it came like a slap from the grave.
Aldous called our health care "50% terrific and 50% nonexistent." In 1962!
Why hasn't this been fixed if mere authors knew about it in 1962?Needless to say the best society is taking the best of modern technology but leaving the materialism and adding individual treatment for the greater good.
Aldous Huxley’s last novel is an enjoyably old-fashioned novel of ideas that makes no bones about what it is. Huxley posits an island utopia that has no real dystopian aspects except for the handing of power through the lines of a single family. It allows Huxley to push some of his favorite things, including hallucinogens, free sex, and Buddhism. It’s a fun change from fiction of today. A 3.5.
Hele ki bu kitap için...Bu kitap bana uzun zamandır yaşamadığım bir durumu yaşattı.
Maksimum 30'ar sayfalık periyotlarla okuyabildim çünkü kitabın özündeki fikirler öyle yoğun ve düşündürücüydü ki daha fazlası yoruyordu.
Öyle bölümler oldu ki defalarca kez yeniden okudum, her defasında da bana inanılmaz bir haz verdi.Huxley kesinlikle toplumu okumada çok üstün bir isim.
Evet, bu kitap ütopya olarak nitelenebilecek bir dünyayı anlatıyor ancak bunu toplumların neden bu kadar bozulduğu ve yozlaştığı üzerinden ele aldığı için gerçek üstü olabilecek hiçbir unsur barındırmıyor.
Toplumları yönetmek Huxley gibi düşünürlere bırakılsa gerçekten yaşamın her saniyesi bir zevk olur diye düşündüm.
This book was required reading for a Grinnell College sociology course on utopias and dystopias taught by Alan Jones. Of all the books in that class we probably enjoyed this most because it was at once tragically utopian and, to our minds, relevant. Not only did it portray a plausible way of life, but it included the earnest use of psychotropics. It is not, however, Huxley at his best. Though we didn't mind, the message dominates whatever literary merit this last novel of his has.
All about Soma which is like all about this totally cool combo of prozac and more psychoactively intense "medications" . . . read it in the passenger seat of a VW Golf driving back east from California after high-school graduation during the First Bush's reign of terror. Think I finished it by Cheyenne. Way enjoyable.
Sevdim mi? Bilmiyorum. Sanırım şansıslığı Cesur Yeni Dünya'dan hemen sonra okunmuş olması oldu, çünkü bir Cesur Yeni Dünya değil. Onun tersi yaratılmış ütopik bir toplum söz konusu. İlgimi çekmiş olması da bu sebeptendi. Evet, toplum çok daha barışcıl, çok daha huzurlu ama yetmedi. Aşırı virgül ve tire kullanımı da beni çok rahatsız etti.
Huxley me uvijek ostavi bez riječi , probudi u meni toliko emocija i pokrene toliko pitanja. Malo je pisaca, malo je knjiga koji imaju tu moć.Huxley je shvatio život.
A man is shipwrecked on an island populated by the perfect society.
A typical Huxley book, he exploits and criticizes the basest elements of his current society by contrasting it with the earth-friendly, free love island's society.
I'm not sure I would like to live in this Buddhist-infused community, but I certainly do admire many of the qualities.
All in all, the book is a bit too critical - the basic story line is superceded by the political descriptions, almost like a series of lectures strung together loosely by a series of conversations with a little day-to-day living inbetween.
