https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1000718.The_Day_of_the_Scorpion
I plan to continue with the series – there is no way I can leave off now after becoming so attached to these characters and to India.
If you are interested in my review of The Jewel in the Crown, you can find it here: My ReviewI have to finish with a quote that reflects the musings of one of the British characters in the novel, an older woman, as she expresses her inner thoughts towards one of her long-time Indian servants.
We are witness to her varied reactions to the mass of ambiguities evident in the last days of the Raj. It is not long before we realise that the character of Sarah reflects the same complexity and challenging attitudes as Daphne Manners’s, in “The Jewel in the Crown”.As well as those English characters mentioned, we have Lady Ethel Manners, whom we met in the previous novel,(view spoiler)[ and who is now caring for Daphne and Hari’s daughter Parvati, since Daphne died in childbirth.
It is his inequality that he resents, but if you remove the restrictions on the Indians and allow them to be equal, then a man like Merrick might find himself on the bottom rung.He said you couldn't buck this issue, that relationships between people were based on contempt, not love, and that contempt was the prime human emotion because no human being was ever going to believe all human beings were born equal.
Whatever kind of poor job I was in my own eyes I was Hari Kumar--"Finally, in the words of Sarah Layton when thinking about Merrick:You reveal something that is sad about us, as if out here we had built a mansion without doors and windows, with no way in and no way out.
The proud scorpion, surrounded by a wall of fire from kerosene, will sting itself to death in the face of its inescapable fate - such is the myth. Here we see an age-old empire do the same: and it is reflected in the life of two sisters, who face death and the loss of innocence in different ways.Another masterly creation from Paul Scott.
The second book in the quartet and am finding the novels to be quite compelling reading. Many of the characters from Jewel in the Crown again make an appearance. Particularly enjoyed reading Hari Humar's side of the story regarding his relationship with Daphne Manners and the aftermath. This novel is evocative of time and place and has a bit of everything politics, culture, romance and prejudice. Lengthy novel which I enjoyed a touch more than The Jewel in the Crown.
After I finished The Jewel in the Crown, my mother, who adores the Raj Quartet, was amazed that I didn’t immediately ask to borrow the next in the series. “Aren’t you curious about the characters?” she asked. She doesn’t understand the allure of a group read. I was perfectly content to postpone the pleasure of the next book until I’d get the even greater pleasure of dozens if not hundreds of Goodreaders to read and discuss the book with me. But aside from that,  The Jewel in the Crown  works ver
After I finished The Jewel in the Crown, my mother, who adores the Raj Quartet, was amazed that I didn’t immediately ask to borrow the next in the series.
This book is set in different parts of India, yet by the end, all the threads come together.The most brilliant characterization by far is that of Captain Merrick.
Hari’s story comes smack dab in the middle of the book, but surrounding it like book ends is Captain Merrick’s account for himself as he gets to know Sarah many miles away from Mayapore.
I saw the series a few years ago and it playing back in my head as I read the words.
The book is not all glamour about the British diaspora in India.
And, I am further looking forward to the rest of the series when The Partition of the country comes into further play.
But each community reading this book with take that theme in a different way.
My view is different because I was part of a diaspora community and saw many different feelings and attitudes towards India's history.
And I am looking forward to part three.
In India nothing is self-evident This second book in The Raj Quartet is remarkably complicated (in a good way) and sophisticated. The aftermath of the Daphne Manners story is still playing out and leads to an extraordinary middle section where Hari Kumar is interviewed in prison: a dense and thrilling piece of writing. At the same time, we're introduced to a host of new characters and new locations that broaden out the scope of the novel. Everything is in a state of chaos and flux, on personal,
The aftermath of the Daphne Manners story is still playing out and leads to an extraordinary middle section where Hari Kumar is interviewed in prison: a dense and thrilling piece of writing.
Everything is in a state of chaos and flux, on personal, national and international levels with WW2 playing out and bringing the Japanese army to India's borders.Scott's ability to manage the multiple dimensions of his story is quite extraordinary: characters are both rounded personalities and also take on symbolic significances, just as the rape did in the first book: She thought: You are, yes, our dark side, the arcane side.
If history would allow, I would dearly love to read Paul Scott’s The Day Of The Scorpion without having first read The Jewel In The Crown.
Like the characters in Paul Scott’s novels, I can’t undo history and can only thus reflect on another time through this forensic tale of war-torn colonial India as someone who did the Crown first.The incidents that formed the backbone of The Jewel In The Crown are still to the fore.
Where then should your loyalties lie?Though The Day Of The Scorpion is primarily a novel about women, it’s the military side of the book that provides everyone involved with the ring of challenges they must face.
More conventional than its predecessor, but so brilliantNothing becomes this second volume of Paul Scott's The Raj Quartet so much as its opening and closing. As he had done several times in  The Jewel in the Crown , Scott leaps ahead in his prologue to post-Partition India. His image of a woman in a burqa in a Hindu town, trailing a distinct scent of Chanel No. 5, symbolizes the disorder that the British left behind them after Independence in 1947, and the demise of their own imperial dreams. T
Indeed the last fifty pages or so of the novel are equally superb, as Scott takes his many diverse themes—the approaching end of the Raj, the personal lives of several English characters caught in the middle of it, the war against the Japanese and its realignment of old loyalties, the emerging models for a new India, and of course the lingering repercussions of the events in Mayapore that were the subject of the first book—as he takes all these and ties them together through subtle reference and hinted outcomes, making this diverse, even sprawling volume at last emerge as an intricate indivisible structure.One of the characteristics of The Jewel in the Crown was Scott's predilection for telling a story obliquely, though the narrative of characters only peripherally connected to it.
Still very dense with backstories and political insight, and a whole cast of fabulous new characters - Bronowski, Barbie, the poisonous Mildred, the tragic Susan - the slightly less-well-drawn Ahmed...there are dialogues that bear very close reading - for instance Jimmy Clark's seduction of Sarah - and there are plots almost too dense to decipher - I'm still not sure I understand about Ahmed's father's release and the link with his other son.
Review in ProgressI finished this one in the wee hours of the morning. And sat staring at the last page with my hands over my mouth, stunned. I felt it had all happened to me. Just happened.I will defer my detailed review until I have re-read this extraordinary book along with the HBC, and I'll be posting thoughts from time to time here. If you are thinking of reading this, the group read is only just getting started.https://www.goodreads.com/topic/group...
"And firm!" His father also muttered something which Ahmed only partly heard but outside on the veranda, it came to him, "Straight & firm", his father had said, "like a crown of thorns".Whether one has visited India, longs to do so one day or has little desire to experience the Indian subcontinent, Paul Scott's The Day of the Scorpion is a skillfully written work, one that can stand quite apart from the other 3 volumes of the author's India-set literary quartet that begins with The Jewell in the Crown.
The whole section about Hari. That is good writing. Seriously. Wonderful second book. Treats women as people and not just tits.
Liked even more than The Jewel in the Crown.
This second book of the Raj Quartet continues the story of those English men and women who live in India during WWII.
Gandhi has been imprisoned as well as member of the Indian Congress and unrest, although somewhat subtle at this point, is stirring In this installment, we follow the lives of Sarah and Susan Layton, two young women whose father is a POW in Germany.
The author begins to pull together some of the plot lines and questions that may have been raised by the reader of Volume I.This is a series that is a "must-read" for those who are interested in Indian history and independence.
Finally we hear Hari Kumar's side of the story. Ronald Merrick loses an arm, which perhaps compensates for the torture and jail time inflicted on Kumar. Sarah Layton entertains vague fantasies about her Indian equestrian escort, but loses her virginity to a British douchenozzle. Living in the Raj has pickled Susan Layton's brain and being a new mother, it turns out, is not her thing.An astonishing number of typos litter the text, particularly toward the end. I had fun underlining them.
Novels such as these simply deserve to be adored and relished, not reviewed by an amateur of my kind. It was a much easier read than the jewel in the crown, the narration being a little more straightforward. Comparison with the TV version:1. The jewel in the crown TV series showed more of Mabel and Barbie. I missed them here. 2. Hari Kumar had more space in the book, and I absolutely loved it

And in some ways it’s a deconstruction of how novels continue on stories.
There’s a central event that is narrated from multiple angles, and then truth is eventually revealed to the reader, and so the literary implications are completely separate from the plot implications.
The novel is cut-throat in its truth.Now this novel takes all the work, and just presses on the wounds.
The British Government cannot handle unchecked boxes, and so the injustice implications of the central event are relitigated in this novel and the quest for closure are pushed and pressed here.
Book 2 of the Raj Quartet.
Cassette book borrowed from the Library for the Blind.In my opinion not as good as The Jewel in the Crown.
This book is dated immediately after the first one.
At the beginning of the book, Harry is still imprisoned allegedly for the rape and assault of Daphne Manners.
The best section of this book was the interview he had with a policeman about what happened, why he was arrested, and Merrick’s part in the whole affair and his police misconduct.
That is perhaps the most compelling part of the book, almost a deposition.
I felt as if we were in somewhat of a holding pattern through this book.
I have been reading the Raj series by Paul Scott for 3 years and have just finished book 2.
It is a historically significant, beautifully written book if not enjoyable as a novel in the usual sense.
The story of Daphne Manners from Book 1 is clearly reiterated here which was helpful as I tried to remember what I had read earlier.
I will most certainly pick up book three immediately.
My 3 stars are really 3.5 but I hesitated to give the book 4 stars as I can't see it having wide appeal.
While the first novel of the Raj Quartet focused on a particular incident -- the rape of a British woman in India -- the second part takes the story into a broader social and political context.
The characters must deal with the realization that, while they are no longer welcome in India, they also have become alienated from British society at home.
Plotwise, this novel is all about subtle emotional encounters.
No one says anything outright and the reader must interpret the book's many long conversations to discover the characters' true motivations.
Not for everyone, but great if you're interested in the historical context or enjoy British fiction.
WOW! An intense book. Had to scrape myself off the floor at the ending. Really looking forward to Part III. Fascinating to see how much effort was made by the Brits and some of the Indians to keep the decaying system in place. Also, never realized that there were Indians who fought alongside the Japanese against the Brits and Burmese! Great descriptions of a truly incredible country! All this interwoven against the story of the rape of Miss Manners in the Bibighar Gardens that was the central story in Part I.
Volume 2 examines how a group of mostly new characters are indirectly affected by the events in Volume 1 while continuing to address the same issues of British identity at the end of the raj in India.
Great second book in the series. Scott paints a vivid picture of colonial India and the mix of racial and societal prejudices and unease. Such a sadness pervades the story though. This is a set of books to be savored and pondered.
Could it be due to the fact that both men are English and the perpetrator was some individual, committed to the cause of Indian independence, making a statement?Could it be because the limousine belongs to the Nawab, the ruler of this princely state, and the hurler was making a statement against his rule?Or could it be that the best man happens to be one Ronald Merrick, the police superintendent at the heart of the infamous Bibighar case?The case, where an English woman was allegedly raped by Indian men during a period of rioting in Myapore, was never resolved.
In The Day of the Scorpion, the second novel, Merrick sees opportunity in the Second World War to put the case behind him and try to reinvent himself by joining the army.
The opening of this novel could do with a bit of trimming.
And there's a fair bit of set-up.
But I got the impression the author was drifting and had taken his eye off the story.But about the two hundred page mark Paul Scott spins round with his eyes aflame and punches you twice really hard in the face with these two intense interrogation scenes.
Thereafter the novel does improve, or perhaps I was simply engaged for the first time.
There's no doubt that it does suffer in comparison with The Jewel in the Crown being so rich and intense.
It begins with Sarah Layton visiting Lady Ethel Manners, the aunt of Daphne who died while giving birth to the daughter she conceived with Hari Kumar at the end of the first volume.Lady Manners has become a pariah, an untouchable, within the Raj community for her role in bringing the mixed raced Pavrati into the world.
Book two of four. Scott has done well here to keep things moving along. It's always an eyebrow-raiser to have such a polarity in some of the female characters. Some (I'm thinking of Susan Leyton here), you just want to throttle, others are indeed admirable. Still, a rather depressing addition to the series. This cannot possibly end well...
