https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54276.The_Young_Hitler_I_Knew
This book, published in 1953 by Adolf Hitler's childhood friend August Kubizek, is frequently referred to in the sixth volume of Knausgård's Min kamp; Knausgård quotes long passages and also compares with Hitler's various biographers, in particular Ian Kershaw.
Knausgård's opinion is that Kubizek was the only real friend Hitler ever had, and the person who knew him best.
A truly amazing book. I should note that I have a 1955 printing that HASN'T been edited to be "political correct." I couldn't put it down... No wonder Miguel Serrano said it should be read again and again...studied. It is clear the author is neither uncritical nor overly so, but simply gives an honest recollection of his experience and his opinions. I think it's safe to say one can know little about Adolf Hitler without having read this book. It has truly touched me on a personal level...What inspirational book!
I approached this book with the expectation of learning what exactly went wrong in Adolph Hitler's early childhood that could have been responsible for creating the monster he became.
While reading this book I did not discover the negative influences in Hitler's life that could have created the flawed individual we remember.
Despite the horror Kubizek felt for Hitler's actions as a political leader, Kubizek remembers Adolf Hitler with affection for the young man who befriended him.
✪✪✪✪✪"You are a friend of Adolf Hitler's?""Yes.""Since when?""Since 1904.""What do you mean by that?
At that time he was nobody.""Nevertheless, I was his friend.""How could you be his friend when he was still a nobody?"An American officer of the Central Intelligence Corps asked: "So you are a friend of Adolf Hitler's.
What did you get out of it?""Nothing.""But you admit that you were his friend.
Quite close?" "Yes, quite close.""Alone?""Alone.""Without any guard?""Without any guard.""So you could have killed him?" "Yes, I could have.""And why didn't you kill him?""Because he was my friend."
This book provides the reader, with probably, the most intimate account available on Hitler's youth and upbringing.
August Kubizek and Hitler were best friends from around the age of 15-19 years old.
Kubizek appears to write with genuine rose tainted reminiscence regarding - what he calls - his dear old friend, Hitler.
He writes with great passion on their youthful adventures together.
Hitler, from a young age displayed captivating oratory skills, and showed a love for art and architecture.Kubizek actually thanks Hitler for encouraging him to pursue music and study in Vienna away from home.
It was obvious that the teenaged Hitler had sociopathic characteristics and controlled his friend, the author.
So many of his behaviors (long rants on topics, belittling others, etc.) were evident as a youth.It was interesting to see what Hitler was like when young, even with poetic license the author inadvertently used at times.
The understanding one gains by the end of the book - that Hitler's life was the result of his character and self-determination, more than anything else - is disturbing but yet, in some way, satisfying.
Hitler was a monster, but even monsters have a human side.
A well-written memoir of friendship with Hitler 1905-1912. Interesting, but good to go to sleep on.
Very readable. Written by one of Hitler's (probably only) teenage friends.
You feel shivers as you enter the stony vault and behold a forest of boiling, smoking test tubes and a network of endless coils of wire that terminate in the flesh of a monster lying on a thick stony slab.
August started his work life as his father's apprentice in the upholstery business but his passion is for music.
He manages to excel in his music studies in Vienna where he lives with young Adolf in spite of the fact that Hitler is easily irritated, demanding, prone to sudden outbursts, uncompromising in his views and prepossessing.
Another admirable moment involves Adolf's vigorous argument for August's musical career.
Hitler loved Wagner because it was pure, unfettered GERMAN expression, perhaps the originary point for Hitler's obsession with "Germania." This world-historical and political obsession was a bit alienating to Kuzibek, but he was more than willing to go along with it because of his self-described passive character.So the interesting part to me isn't the voyeuristic look into the most intimate aspects of Hitler's persona (which IS of course pretty neat), but what the relationship between Hitler and Kuzibek reveals to us about the relation of Hitler to the people of the third reich.
While written in a very matter of fact, documentarian manner , this slim volume is a fascinating look (via his childhood friend) of part of the adolescence of the Young Adolf Hitler.
As difficult as this is to do, it allows oneself to understand the complexity of character of people history has rightly labeled "evil." reading this volume gave me a glimpse of some of the events and personality traits that shaped Hitler into the megalomaniacal dictator he would later become.
That being said, one can still glimpse soft traits in the teen age Hitler of this narrative, who sounds like, to me, many other young men who consign themselves to the whims of dreams and lofty ambition.
Uno aprende con Kubizek cómo se desarrolló el pensamiento antisemita y político de Hitler.
Fue un ser lejano a la sociedad pero le interesaba ayudar a su pueblo, y con este libro, uno ausculta la psicología de este personaje tan controvertido.
Nadie mejor que Kubizek para ser el mejor amigo de Hitler, pareciese que hubiese estado escrito, porque la personalidad un tanto sumisa de Kubizek permitía a Hitler explayarse en sus disertaciones sin que alguien le contradijera, ya que August solo escuchaba.
Le daría cinco, pero el autor a veces se dejaba llevar por la admiración a Adolf e inquiría en excesos al describirlo, por lo demás, recomendado.
August Kubizek met Adolf Hitler in 1904 while they were both competing for standing room at the opera.
In 1908 Kubizek moved to Vienna and shared a room with Hitler at 29 Stumpergasse.
Hitler moved out of the flat in November, without leaving a forwarding address; Kubizek did not meet his friend again until 1938.
The Young Hitler I Knew tells the story of an extraordinary friendship, and gives fascinating insight into Hitler’s character during these formative years.
This is the first edition to be published in English since 1955 and it corrects many changes made for reasons of political correctness.
If you happen to be a history fan as I am, this truly becomes a must-read for those who seek more than what "winners" books provide. An insight into Hitler's psyche, one that leaves you to wonder how different history may have been if not for the many struggles and frustrations he had to face during his teenage years. Certainly, one book that serves the purpose to demystify the "demon Hitler" we are used to read in most common modern European history books.
Interesting read. It seems that hitler was a homophobic homosexual whose fantasy about a woman named Stephanie was his mask for his love of his friend. Unable to accept this within himself he made homosexuals and Jews his object of his hate. Being obsessive, paranoid, grandiose, and antisocial made him the monster he grew to be. He was a man with no soul.
Kubizek must have had the patience of a saint. Either that or a deep and abiding love.
Wonderful book!
an amazing book... taken with a grain of salt it's gold!
His "dear friend Gustl" was at Hitler's side throughout his decision to leave school, attempts to get into the art and architecture schools in Vienna, the death of his beloved mother and his rapid descent into poverty.Every page brings another bizarre mental image- Hitler in a dirty apron cleaning the kitchen as his mother dies; Hitler watching his one true love, a woman he never once spoke to but dreamed of for 4 years; Hitler drawing and sketching compulsively.
- kill everyone who contradicted him!Kubizek lost track of his friend at 19, and could have ended his book there.
Hitler assures him all the drawings and letters (reprinted in the book) the Kubizek retains are his to do with as he wishes.At the end of the war, Kubizek is taken into custody by the allies.
I think many people are hesitant to read books on the Nazis for fear of being labeled a Nazi or somehow being too close to a subject considered so ubiquitously taboo.
But I consider the WW2 Eastern Front somewhat of a specialty of my historical knowledge and if I was going to understand the characters that led the nations involved in the bloodiest theater of war in human history, then it behooved me to pick this up.
Indeed, in addition to Hitler, I've read the excellent "Young Stalin" by Montefiore for comparison of the two characters.
It's a fascinating exercise to read about any legendary figure's description as merely being a person - his likes and dislikes, personality traits that are common to the next man.
It was so well approached, that I couldn't help but developed a sense of admiration for the teenager Hitler, for his single-mindedness and charisma, and felt that this here is a man with a great depth, but how unfortunate it was that he devoted himself to such a heinous crime.
It's merely a story telling, not a dissection or analysis of Hitler's character.
it is immediately put to the service of war.
Who wants war?
Certainly not the little man--far from it.
Wars are arranged by crowned and uncrowned rulers who in turn are guided and driven by their armament industries.
While these gentlemen earn gigantic sums and remain far from the firing line, the 'little man' has to risk his life without knowing to what purpose." Adolf Hitler, age nineteen, 1908, from The Young Hitler I Knew, page 227"It is a tragedy.
I did not become Chancellor of the Greater German Reich to fight wars." Adolf Hitler, age 51, from The Young Hitler I Knew, page 257
Really interesting and readableIt's just weird to think of Hitler as a teenager. He was, and buddy Gustl reports on it in this book. Kubizek has a firsthand account that shows that many of Hitler's traits were in place in his youth. Like working all hours, needing to have his own way, total focus on one task. Hitler was self-absorbed, and he didn't sound like much of a friend. I don't understand why Kubizek put up with him.Kubizek book is perceptive, balanced, and funny in places. A very readable account.
Excelentes memorias, de fácil lectura, podría ser fácilmente la historia de dos jovenes de cualquier parte del mundo, con sueños, esperanzas y sufrimientos. Deberían llevarlas al cine. Tiene drama y hasta partes de humor. Humaniza mucho a Hitler y lo hace ver como otro ser humano más. Por lo que no creo que Spielberg quiera producirla.Probablemente sea el único libro en que se habla del verdadero Hitler, hecho por alguien que lo conoció en persona, August Kubizek, el único amigo que Hitler tuvo en su vida.
What an interesting and eye opening account of a close friend of the great Fuhrer. It shows how talented Fuhrer was, what a sympathetic mind he had and his love for arts and compassion towards animals. Amidst all this it also shows he remembered his humble roots and those who stood by him. A very heart warming account of a friend of the greatest leader in the world. Very emotional and a must read for those who want to know the truth and the talents of the multi faceted genius Fuhrer.
A fascinating read offering a rare glimpse into the early years of Hitler's life through the eyes of his only known childhood friend. This friendship began in 1904 where both young boys would spend much of their spare time, at the opera. Kubizek relates firsthand details of Hitler's relationship at home, especially with his mother. Interesting to read how many of Hitler's thoughts and ideologies that he translated into his Third Reich ideologies were formulated at quite an early age.
El autor es el amigo más intimo que Adolf Hitler tiene en la adolescencia, y convive, en un día a día, con el personaje que más adelante entrará en la Historia como el asesino más grande. Sus vivencias destilan enojo, orgullo, rencor y muchas otras emociones que Adolf mantiene a lo largo de los años, junto con ilusiones y proyectos de un Hitler no conocido por el gran público. Curioso libro.
This book gives a different look at Hitler. Not that I am 'pro-Hitler', but it is interesting to read about 4 yrs. of his life that shaped the future. If just one of his other aspirations came to fruition history would have been completely re-written. The book is not as quick of a read as I would have liked, but the content is pretty interesting.
"The positive side [of Hitler's time in Vienna] was that his constant revolt against the existing social order produced his political philosophy, to which little was added in later years." (p. 163)...I'm pretty sure that's not a positive. That said, I actually loved this book. Once I got over the sympathy the author felt for Adolf.
Discover young Adolf's deepest, darkest secrets and dreams as a growing Austrian boy, as told by his best and truest friend. Often red-faced and shaking with anger even as a tot, Adolf indeed has crushes on girls, hopes of winning the lottery, plans for a musical, and a very poor diet. I highly recommend this read to anyone interested in climbing into the disturbed mind of the Führer.
