https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/145172.Best_Ghost_Stories_of_J_S_Le_Fanu
:-( On this go-around, I've read six selections (as usual, somewhat out of order).I'm inclined to accept Bleiler's judgment that "An Authentic Narrative of a Haunted House," which Le Fanu published in the Dublin University Magazine during the time that he edited it, is written by Le Fanu, and that the author's assertion that it is not fiction, but an actual account of paranormal experiences he and his family had, is genuine.
Probably my favorite selection among the ones read in this go-around is The Haunted Baronet (1870), which at 117 pages is novella length, and so affords more scope for character development, incident, and atmospheric "treatment" (to use the author's term) than most of the other works here.
The stories that feature the setting of Golden Friars ("The Haunted Baronet" and "The Dead Sexton")are remarkable and thoroughly enjoyable for their depth of characterization, mainly in the secondary characters of the village folk.
I withheld the fifth star because LeFanu recycled some of his plots (and the characters with them), a dismal habit some writers fall into when they have a lazy moment.
But otherwise, LeFanu is one of my favorite writers of terrifying tales from this era, and he does a masterful job.
Wonderfully written short stories, but many of them started to seem similar and a bit predictable after an entire book of them. A special note for anyone who finds himself stuck in a le Fanu short story: never trust the deformed hunchbacks; don't make deals with strange people who you meet in the woods; and if you had a dream that seemed real, it probably is.
I'm torn on rating this one. While it contains most of LeFanu's best stories, there are some major clunkers in here also. Most notably, 'The Fortunes of Sir Robert Ardagh' has the exact same ending as the much better story 'The Haunted Baronet'. Stories like 'Ardagh' wouldn't interest any readers except the completionist ones.It's true that LeFanu is one of the masters of gothic horror stories. I'd recommend starting with the collection In a Glass Darkly if you're new to him.
This book would have got a 3.5 except it contains Carmilla which gets a 5.
I think the first few stories are quite weak, and it's not until you hit 'Green Tea' that things start to get creepy.
This happens, but while most authors try to rework the material, Fanu has changed the scenery and names, left pretty much everything else intact.
The editor of this anthology states at the start of the book that he has omitted others of Fanu's stories, presumably he has a lot of material to choose from.
Do you think people aren't going to read your book?
This is a fantastic, delicious, delirious collection of classical ghost stories. That is, you may not have heard of these stories unless you're abreast of Irish literature, but they are written in a charming, colorful colloquial vein. They're amusing, they're creepy, and they are a delight at every level.
This is a collection of traditional Victorian ghost stories, legands and fairy tales about "the good about the mystical people of Ireland who have made a pact with the devil. I enjoyed the traditional Victorian tales best but overall an interesting collection of myth, mysteries and legends.Well worth a read if you have an interest in fairy folk and tales of the supernatural.
Editor Bleiler gives us ghost stories and only ghost stories, no gothic mysteries or natural explanations here, by the first great master of the English ghost story. Mostly good, some great, there is one "essay" and an excerpted chapter from The House by the Churchyard. Culled from The Purcell Papers, In a Glass Darkly, and Madame Crowl's Ghost, the bizarre and aimless Haunted Baronet novella is also included.Despite its purported health benefits, one should moderate the consumption of Green Tea.
Perhaps it is sacrilegious to mark a work by Le Fanu with anything less than 5 stars, but there were stories in this collection that had compelled me to run away from this book time-and-again.
LeFanu wrote some wonderful ghost stories (Green Tea, The Familiar, Madam Crowl's Ghost and others)where everyday details/observations and psychological insight enhance the reported supernatural events. Some of the other tales included here are less successful ("The Haunted Baronet"), repeat key details/scenes from other stories and would be of more interest to a scholar of LeFanu than the casual reader. If this collection had omitted those less successful stories, I would have given it 4 or 5 stars.
1) Squire Toby's Will2) Schalken the Painter3) Madam Crowl's Ghost4) The Haunted Baronet5) Green Tea6) The Familiar7) Mr. Justice Harbottle9) Carmilla10) The Fortunes of Sir Robert Ardagh11) An Account of Some Strange Disturbances in Aungier Street12) The Dead Sexton13) Ghost Stories of the Tiled House14) The White Cat of Drumgunniol15) An Authentic Narrative of a Haunted House [non-fiction]16) Sir Dominick's Bargain17) Ultor de Lacy
This volume is probably the best single collection of J. Sheridan LeFanu's shorter supernatural fiction. It includes his short novel, "Carmilla" - one of the all time great vampire stories. LeFanu was an Anglo-Irish writer of the mid-19th century. The stories collected in this volume also include hauntings of various kinds and one where a man sells his soul to the Devil. Some are set in LeFanu's native Ireland, others in northern England and elsewhere.
One of my favorite horror authors. LeFanu wrote during a time where the horrors were vague so as not to offend innocent readers. However, his stories are graphic, colorful and still have that Victorian creepiness that is so fitting to a ghost story. If you love ghost stories, you need to read this.
I haven't read all of these stories yet, but Carmilla is one of my absolute favorite books of all time. No one expects to pick up a nineteenth century piece of literature and find a dark, creepy, lesbian vampire romance. I can't recommend it enough!
The stories were ok for the most part. Near the end it got kind of repetitive. But I enjoyed it overall and was surprised at how bloody some of them were and some of the more, ahem, modern themes. I can say I am glad I read this book, though some of the prose was harder to get through.
Creepy Victorian ghost stories -- great for the days you're home sick in bed.
The thing is Victorian fiction can seem slow, and a little tame. Nonetheless, well crafted gothic ghost stories. Would have made nice Christmas reading.
so very, very gothic, it's not even funny. "Carmilla" is one of the backbone stories of this vampire preoccupation, too. Good fun.
I liked how he wrote these ghost stories from the point of view of careful scientific investigation of the origins--usually the moral causes--of the hauntings.
Read in college for my Victorian Literature class. Specifically, "Carmilla."
Gothic ghost-story telling at its finest.
Le Fanu is a lot of fun. He is arguably the scariest Victorian writer (not that that's very scary).
There are 3 volumes with this title, free from Google. I liked the simplest tales, such as Schalken the Painter, but the Ultor de Lacey story started well but disintegrated at the end to elements of fortunetelling, resurrection, mysterious storms and an ancestor's ghost.
Fantastic gothic horror.
Gothic.
This was a supurb collection of supernatural tales from an early master of the genre.
LeFanu reworked the 18th Century Gothic into a solidly Victorian form. His stories "Carmilla" and "Mr Justice Harbottle" are essential.
oh, leFanu
Ooooh, scary!
ΤΕΛΕΙΟ ΜΕ TOP ΤΗΝ CARMILLA
