https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70401.On_the_Road
No, the real reason I hate this book so much is that it established a deeply retarded model of European-American male coolness that continues to plague our culture today.I could go into a lot more depth on this topic, but it's come to my attention that I've been using my horrible addiction to Bookster to avoid the many obligations and responsiblities of my daily life, to which I should now return.
I'm supposed to like On the Road, right? Well, I don't. I hate it and I always have. There are a lot of reasons why I hate it. I find Kerouac's attitude toward the world pathetically limited and paternalistic. In  On the Road  he actually muses about how much he wishes that he could have been born "a Negro in the antebellum South," living a simple life free from worry, and does so seemingly without any sense of irony. On every page, the book is about how Kerouac (a young, white, middle-class, so
I'm supposed to like On the Road, right?
I hate it and I always have.
There are a lot of reasons why I hate it.
On the Road
On every page, the book is about how Kerouac (a young, white, middle-class, solipsistic alcoholic) feels, and nothing more.
But that's only one reason I hate this book.
The main reason I hate it is because, for me, reading Kerouac's prose is almost physically painful.
He was a pretentious, self-important bore who produced some of the most painfully bad and inconsequential prose of the 20th century.
Or any century.

And this is that book which has shamed me into feigning an air of ignorance every time I browsed any of the countless 1001-books-to-read-before-you-die lists.Yes Jack Kerouac, you have tormented me for the past 3 years and every day I couldn't summon the strength to open another page of 'On the Road' and subject my brain to the all-too-familiar torture of Sal's sleep-inducing, infuriatingly monotonous narration.
And what a monumental waste of my time.Dear Beat Generation classic, I can finally state without any fear of being called out on my ignorance that I absolutely hated reading you.
Once I stepped back a little from the awe at Dean's greatness, this book was really sad, and it caused me to put away that romanticism for a while.Now, 2 years later, though, On the Road is coming back to me full on.
The road is every bit as romantic as Sal Paradise made it out to be, and its glory far out weighs the short comings of Dean as a friend.
I think this book should be read by everyone who wants to know about America.
Read this book and be mad for life, delirious, exploding outward into the big uncovered road!
Go!When I was 21 I re-read On The Road.
At this point in my life, I smoked so much pot that I can't really remember the exact effect it had on me, other than the fact that I was very impressed with the glowing red eyes of Chicago and the book in general left a sort of a rumbling phantasmagoric wake in my fuzzy brain.
You would tell me that later.When I was 26 I re-read On The Road again.
I would not actually finish reading the book.
Sign of the times, I know, but it is still painful to see that these Beat visionaries - for all their open-mindedness towards other religions and sex and drugs - still expressed such backwards views and attitudes sometimes As for the beauty, the story of Sal Paradise and Dean Moriarty crossing the US again and again with a last trip down to Mexico City is epic."I pictured myself in a Denver bar that night, with all the gang, and in their eyes I would be strange and ragged and like the Prophet who has walked across the land to bring the dark Word, and the only Word I had was "Wow!" (P.
Although the ideas hold a certain appeal, this book is ultimately just a half-assed justification of some pretty stupid, self-destructive, irresponsible, and juvenile tendencies and attitudes, the end result of which is a validation of being a deadbeat loser, a perpetual child.
Nobody needs to read On the Road anymore, and all it's going to do is perpetuate some pretty idiotic notions we already have enough of, and lead to a lot of ripoffs of ripoffs of Whitman thinking their poetry is important and crowding bars I don't want to have to see them at.
Herein lies that gnarly root of the all-American Sense of Entitlement.
Coupling this with "Huck Finn" as THE quintessential American Novel is One Enormous mistake: Twain at least entertains, at least follows through with his intention, with his American take on the Quixotean legend; Kerouac might just be the biggest literary quack of the 20th century!
[he is old & stupid, desperate & pathetic]!!!!) is how entirely false this sense of freedom can be: Can a sheep really outwit the shepherd?
This is a book for followers written by a Conformist, for one can always be some selfproclaimed comfortable conformist of nonconformism.Nothing sticks.
عنوانش، جزو صد کتاب قرن بیستم میلادی، به انتخاب بسیاری از روزنامه ها بوده است، خودزندگی‌نامه‌ نوشت است، و حاصل تجربیات کرواک، در ملاقات با مردمِ سرتاسر آمریکا ست.
روایت سفر اودیسه­ وار جوانی به نام سالواتوره پارادایز (سل، سلی) است، نویسنده ­ای که پس از جدایی از همسرش، سرخورده، و افسرده، بر آن می­شود، تا دلش را به دست جاده­ های آمریکا بسپارد، و می­کوشد از آن راه، مفهومی برای زندگی پوچ خویش، بیابد.
در راه، با جوانی کوچکتر از خویش، به نام «دین موریارتی» آشنا می­شود، و تحت تاثیر دیوانه­ بازی­ها، و مرام آشوب­گرانه ی­ او، قرار می­گیرد.
“Nothing behind me, everything ahead of me, as is ever so on the road.”  I am not really into classics.I always preferred the fantasy genre, due to an innate escapism, a vivid imagination and a constant longing for magic. But as you may tell, I didn't cast spells while reading On the Road. I didn't climb the dark wizard's tower, nor heard prophecies whispered in the dark. I set my sword aside for a while, and hushed my heart's desire to experience passionate romances. After a dear friend's rav
If you must know one thing about On the Road, is that it doesn't stand out because of its mind-blowing plot.
When the road lies ahead full of possibilities, and you're lost and bound and torn.
Other pass by like fleeting stars, or constitute a constant and reassuring presence.
“The only people for me are the mad ones, the ones who are mad to live, mad to talk, mad to be saved, desirous of everything at the same time, the ones who never yawn or say a commonplace thing, but burn, burn, burn like fabulous yellow roman candles exploding like spiders across the stars and in the middle you see the blue centerlight pop and everybody goes “Awww!” 
The other day I was talking to someone and he said, “Well, I’m no pie expert .
I was driving across the country with my buddies, and we decided to eat only pie.”“Like Jack Kerouac in On the Road!” I said.“Yes!
Exactly!
That’s exactly what we were doing.
"Except pie isn’t as filling as you would think it would be, so we had to drink a lot of beer to make up for that.
We would stop and camp out by the road, eating pie and drinking beer with multi-vitamins.“We got to my girlfriend’s house, and we looked like shit.
in september, this book will turn sixty years old! while i do not care for it personally, and the celebration of a couple of self-satisfied pseudo-intellectual doofuses and their buffet-style spirituality traveling across the country, leaving a number of pregnancies in their wake and exploiting underage mexican prostitutes makes me wonder why this book endures, endure it does. so i have made a road trip booklist with less ickiness and more cannibalism. enjoy!https://www.rifflebooks.com/list/237494
I admire the confidence of the reader who ‘gets it’ but I’m also aware that one person’s confidence is another person’s arrogance (I prefer to stick with the less judgmental confidence).Quest stories often appeal to optimistic youth; they’re tailor-made for the searchers.
There’s a problem inherent with autobiographical novels; if they’re bad, you’re stuck knowing that the author/narrator isn’t going to die at the end of it.
This was a 4 star book based on what it represents, the history of the genre, and my enjoyment of travel.
It seems like almost every city in the United States is mentioned at least once as Sal Paradise tells of his travels, the people he meets, those who join him, and his wild vagabond companion Dean Moriarity.
I mentioned the jazz influence and Kerouac apparently used the scroll in this way to mimic improvisational jazz.
Sometimes the scroll can be seen on display - see photo below: All in all a very interesting book with very interesting characters and a very interesting history.
However, I do think there is more to this story.Sure, they are jerks and they are bums and they are full of a lot of BS but as the book progresses, it becomes clear that they know it.
While he so desperately seeks to squeeze the wonder out of life, he lets everything really beautiful-such as love with a woman or any real human relationships slip from his careless grasp.
Something about that guy really insprired the artisits around him.As for the writing, it is beautiful and I think some of the best writing ever done about America.

Pardon me while I write a scathing review for this book in the style of Kerouac, the Rambler.I really don't understand why this book is considered a classic.
It's incoherent, rambles on for days, and the "style" is distracting and annoying enough that reading even a page makes me yearn to kick somebody's puppy.
I'll write a book about nothing really.
I think it's become fashionable to claim to be a Kerouac fan even though the fans' faux-understanding is nothing more than an absurdity).
EDIT: 26/03/2018 I just learnt that Sam and Dean from Supernatural were named after Sal and Dean, and I don't know what to believe in anymore. -- ORIGINAL REVIEW: ALTERNATE TITLE: White People ProblemsALTERNATE ALTERNATE TITLE: How Many Girls is Too Many Girls?ALTERNATE ALTERNATE ALTERNATE TITLE: Do I Sound Smart Yet?Why do people love this book? No seriously, I read it for the second time because I thought I was too young to have understood it when I read it the first time. Well, turns out the
Then there are books like this that I dislike, because seriously, what the fuck was the writer thinking?
But this book could only and only have been written by a White, heterosexual male.
Fuck this book.
On reading the description of the women in this book, I can only conclude that these characters were written by an alien ghost-writer who had a very vague idea of what women actually were.
The combination of smug intellectual superiority, and utter and total disregard for anyone who isn't White, heterosexual, or male make this book truly one of the worst I've read.
You couldn't pay me enough to re-read this baby now.
Well, okay, I'd probably do it for £200.
Alright, £100.
Cash.
Kerouac took over from Steinbeck as the guy I had to read everything by when I was a young person.
Steinbeck himself took over from Ray Bradbury.
All three American males with a sentimental streak as wide as the Rio Grande.
Whole thing nearly turned me into a weepy hitchhiker who plays saxophone while he waits for a ride, then gets abducted by aliens who are these very kind blue globes, I know it sounds crazy, blue globes, right, & who take him back to 1922 where he persuades the boss of the local fruit farm syndicate to double the workers' wages and build a school.
They're just good ol' boys never meaning no harm, making their way the only way they know how, but that's just a bit more than the law will allow...The characters of Sal Paradise and Dean Moriarty in Jack Kerouac's On the Road are 20th Century equivalents of Huck Finn and Tom Sawyer: boys having joyous American adventures.
Most of the book follows their ultimate liberation, psycho-philosophical, free-wheeling adventures bumming rides, seeing the country, scoring weed and drink, making it with real gone girls, and getting meaningless jobs along the way to further their desire to go farther, always farther.
For me, On the Road is inextricable from the time and place that I read it.
I was, literally, on the road, looking at colleges in New England during my junior year of high school.
I did, after all, read it at the absolute "perfect" time: away from home, "discovering myself," blah blah blah.
I didn't know that at the time.
Do you think I'm going to waste time talking about the cinematography?That's not to say I think the book is without substance or can't be appreciated academically.
I decided to re-read this recently, having originally read it too long ago as a 15 year old with a head full of clouds, fluffy ideas and idealism.
They pioneered the sofa surfing econo-chic movement which is having a moment right now.Ultimately running away is fine and fun for a time too.
In this case it is worth it if you're going to get a world class book out of it and be touted as some sort of inter-generational seer for years to come but the chances of that happening are fairly limited.Eventually the time comes when we have to stand still while the world turns around us for a moment make a decision about who we are and where we're going (and that doesn't mean just going back to Denver!).
This book takes me back to that once in a lifetime summer when you sit with your friends and say "we should just hit the road and let it take us anywhere." Over the years you look back and wonder - can you say that you took the road...
"I took the one less traveled by, And that has made all the difference." But that difference is already faded; the road is covered over with the autumnal leafs of memory - and it is lost.
Jack took that road; and I traveled with him in the spirit of that summer long ago.
I didn’t like Devon asked and gave the book to someone else, never reading a word past the three times I read it crossing the Atlantic.I wanted to be Dean.
I didn’t have a good idea of what Neal Cassidy looked like at the time, so to me Dean looked like Greg Harper; rough, but with an inner beauty that outshines his scars and imperfections.Years later, about eleven years, I was working on this pre-positioning ship parked near Ascension Island.
Finally it came up, “On the Road, there’s a book I need to read.
Normally for a book to work for me it has to have either one of two things; a strong storyline or detailed, well rounded characters.
But if I ignore the misogynistic way that women were portrayed and the double standards to which they were held, and look at the male characters as pure, unadulterated jerks then how well-developed do those jerks feel to me....
The leading male characters of Sal the narrator and his most frequent travelling companion Dean didn't work as anti-heroes either.
The relationship between Sal and Dean was the main relationship of the book.
Kerouac himself is Sal, Neal Cassady is Dean etc etc.
Μερικά βιβλία τα εκτιμάς στην κατάλληλη ηλικία και αυτό είναι το πιο χαρακτηριστικό. Νομίζω πως αν το είχα διαβάσει στα 18 μου, θα το έβρισκα υπέροχο. Τώρα το βρήκα απλά καλό και μετά από ένα σημείο βαρετό. Το πιο θετικό ήταν ότι μου μπήκε η ιδέα - στόχος ζωής, ένα roadtrip στις Η.Π.Α.
I hitchhiked from Atlanta to Philadelphia just because according to this book that's the sort of thing one does.
That's how seriously I took this book.So you can understand that, as a pushing-40 guy who says things like "Man, it's 11, I'm beat," and means "tired," I was not at all keen to revisit this.
Dean Moriarty (Neal Cassady) is a mentally unstable man, and I think the Beats used him for stories.
But this is a young man's book.
But this is a young man's book.
All you beatniks, go out and hitchhike and be broke and desperate on the snake of the world.
ده ستاره میدم!درمورد این کتاب سخت میتونم بنویسم. انقدر که چیزهای جالبی برای من داشت. متن روونی داشت، اتفاقات هیجانانگیز و تجربهنشده بودن، ریتم بالایی داشت، وقتی میخوندی حس میکردی که داری میدویی باهاشون. توصیفات محشری داشت که میتونستی جادههای آمریکا و جزکلابها و مهمونیا و بیابونا و مکزیک و جنگلهاش رو باهاش تجربه کنی. من این رو خیلی آروم خوندم. هر از گاهی کمی ازش رو میخوندم و این خیلی لذتبخش بود.عیش مدام!توصیه میکنم، به همه، که بخوننش و چه بهتر که حین خوندنش درموردش تحقیق هم بکنن. مثلن وقتی از ترا
توصیفات محشری داشت که می‌تونستی جاده‌های آمریکا و جزکلاب‌ها و مهمونیا و بیابونا و مکزیک و جنگل‌هاش رو باهاش تجربه کنی.
هر از گاهی کمی ازش رو می‌خوندم و این خیلی لذت‌بخش بود.عیش مدام!توصیه می‌کنم، به همه، که بخوننش و چه بهتر که حین خوندنش درموردش تحقیق هم بکنن.
مثلن وقتی از ترانه‌ای نام می‌برد، دانلودش می کردم و حین خوندن اون صفحات گوش می‌دادمش.
کلی اسم و چیز جالب می‌شه توی این کتاب پیدا کرد و در نهایت شما رو عاشق سفر و تجربه می‌کنه.باید رفت سفر.
باید دید و باید مثل جرقه‌های طلایی‌رنگ این کتاب دوید و دوید تا از نفس افتاد!
I don’t care if you turn up your jazz records so loud that it wakes every single bloody kid down the street so that they bawl out at the full stretch of their lungs from midnight right through to 6 am - just as long as all of those kids and everyone else living in that street who’s bleary eyed and up half the night shut the hell up as soon as I close the covers of the book.Ah yes…I’m not proud, I’ll admit it, I’m infinitely too straight to ever spend any real quality time with Mr Kerouac and his assorted friends.
