https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/877229.The_Portable_Oscar_Wilde
I managed to get through about a third of "The Critic as Artist," the two plays, Salome and The Importance of Being Earnest, his novel, The Picture of Dorian Gray, about one-fifth of "De Profundis" which is the amazingly (amazingly) long letter to his ex-boyfriend, and some of his poems. What an interesting character he was! Modesty was not one of his traits, and his discussions of "Art" made me role my eyes, but I really enjoyed his works of fiction, and was left feeling bad for the poor guy despite his whining
As it stands, none of Wilde's work especially interests me. He writes in a style very much of his time, which I do not enjoy reading. It's sad, really. I would have thought, given the wild amount of acclaim Wilde receives among literary circles, that he would be more interesting to read.
Oscar Wilde is a very meticulous writing when based on word choice and sentence structure. All of his magnificents pieces show great knowledge of literature, great intelligence and great domination of the language. His philosophy impresses me, although I disagree with him at some levels, I agree with him on his messages.
catching up on another of those classics that I missed out on somewhere along the way. Made me want to know more about Oscar's life after prison. Did he write anything worth remembering once he 'found humility'?
Enjoyed every page, poem, essay and excerpt, letter, phrase, philosophy, and play (despite the punny corniness and contrived coincidences of The Importance of Being Earnest), and novel (The Picture of Dorian Gray).
Used this as a convenient way to read some Wilde I had missed out on. So the parts I read were:The Picture of Dorian GrayDe ProfundisBallad of Reading Gaoland the letters from Wilde included in this volume (only about half a dozen)
this is a great colletion of oscar wilde works.
PLenty of Wilde to choose from in this handy volume - Dorian Grey, Importance of Being Earnest, Reading Gaol, etc.
not allowed to review this one until after book club! (i should add: i only bought this one for "the picture of dorian gray.")
For QEII, read The Importance of Being Earnest and The Ballad of Reading Gaol.
God I am so glad to be done with this. Should have been a short story.
The Picture of Dorian Gray
