https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/434229.Cape_Fear
When rapist Max Cady gets out of jail, he goes looking for the man who put him there, Sam Bowden...Cape Fear, aka The Executioners, was the source for a couple pretty good movies, one of my favorite episodes of The Simpsons, and, in a way, Mr. Burns, a post-electric play so I figured I should give it a read when it showed up on the cheap.I watched the Martin Scorcese version of the movie in recent memory and the book is a less intense, less interesting version.
Sam tells her about an encounter in the parking lot after work with a man named Max Cady, a staff sergeant who Sam served as key witness against in a court martial case in Melbourne during the war, a rape case.
Sam came upon Cady in an alley assaulting a fourteen year old girl, landed a punch on the sergeant's chin and called the Shore Patrol.
Cady, a seven year army veteran who'd seen two hundred days of combat and been pulled from action with a severe case of jungle nerves, was sentenced on Sam's testimony to life at hard labor.He remembered how the sergeant had looked in court.
I'm late to the game with John D.
MacDonald, this being the first of his novels I have read.
There will be more, by the gods.
Yes, the book is dated, both in ideas and dialog, first published in 1958.
It still works pretty well, in a retro sort of way.
The conversations between the husband and wife seemed off, couldn't buy it at all.
I have to say that the original movie is preferable to the book for me, something that doesn't happen very often.
Whether it be book or movie, Max Cady is an utterly horrifying character, a perfect psychopath bent on revenge.
Having read the original (which stands the usual test of the book being better than the films) MacDonald’s title was the correct one as it best identifies with the theme of what the author was describing.I also learned that the 1991 Martin Scorsese film was not so much based on MacDonald’s book as it was a retelling of the earlier film.
Whereas Bowden is a successful lawyer and family man, comfortable in his suburban home and protected by layers of law and civilization, Cady is a hill person from West Virginia, better described as an animal than as a human.It is here that MacDonald, ever the master of describing a layered narrative with a philosophical meaning behind his surface story, makes his greatest achievement.
The best kind of John D. MacDonald novel. I've read so much Travis McGee, I've forgotten that John D. could write different characters. I liked Sam Bowden and his wife a lot. They seemed to reflect me (and my situation) more than Travis McGee ever did. I could relate better. It seemed a bit more grounded, less of a heroic caricature.
So what will Sam do?!My copy was published in 1991 to help publicize that year's movie version, which starred Robert DeNiro as bad guy Max Cady.
I don't know if anyone else will feel this way, but when I read the final chapter, it seemed to me that everything that came before that was a build-up so that MacDonald could express a certain point of view of the world, an idea of acknowledging and accepting the uncertainties that are part of every life and learning how to handle them without letting them handle you.
Max Cady has spent 14 years in prison for raping a minor.
The moment he is out of prison, he seeks vengeance from his lawyer, Sam Bowden, for using faulty defense tactics during his trial.
With Max Cady closing in on Sam, killing his dog and then going after his wife and 3 children, Sam is forced to take help of professional killers to get rid of his deranged stalker.
How does Sam survive this ordeal?
Robert De Niro aced the character of Max Cady.
I would strongly recommend the book and the movie to those who love thrillers, especially stalker fiction.
Read this sometime in the 90's. I remember liking it, significantly more than the movie, but that was likely due to the grossness that is Juliette Lewis.
Way back in 1943, Bowden was a First Lieutenant on the Judge Advocate General’s Department and became a prime witness in the trial and conviction of staff sergeant Max Cady for the assault on a young woman in an alley.
And Cady began stalking Bowden.There was no law of harassment in those days.
In order to protect his family – ‘his four incredibly precious hostages to fortune’, Bowden arrives at the unpalatable conclusion that he must go outside the law to deal with Cady.‘There are black things loose in the world.
He turns up in Bowden’s town and lets him know that he has some payback coming.
Bowden, taken by surprise, suddenly becomes aware of a threat to his existence that didn’t exist before.
There is no hard evidence of who did it, but Bowden knows.
Bowden is now faced with taking the law into his own hands.
The remake was released in 1991, and starred Robert De Niro and Juliette Lewis.
I’m not sure where the film title came from, since the river Cape Fear, a river in North Carolina, plays no role.
If you can watch both films, do so.
The novel presents John D.
Maybe a +3.5. I expected too much from this because the movie was so tense and action packed. The book does a better job developing the characters, but still it is overshadowed by the film. A good book nevertheless.
Excellent suspense thriller. Enough differences between the two movies and the book to make it worthwhile. John D. MacDonald never fails to deliver a great novel.

This is a classic thriller. A superb author, John D MacDonald, and two of the all time greatest actors, Robert Mitchum and Gregory Peck, turned this story into a really scary movie. That movie was so powerful that decades later I could see the book characters on the silver screen. That made the book a five star for me. The dark and stormy night scene is what I remember most clearly.
The death of a beloved family pet is so sad but dealt with very effectively for the plot. Emotional. Interesting (in the way John D. MacDonald always is). The end was a touch less than explosively climactic. The title is not great, probably why it was famously filmed (twice) as Cape Fear.
Gripping, Intense Cliff Hanger Till The End! I Loved It!
I'm not really sure but this is one of them.When Sam Bowden helps send Max Cady to jail for raping a 14 year old girl he has no idea how this will impact on his life years down the track.Cady's mission in life,once released from prison, is rain havoc on the Bowden family.For most of the book there is no actual violence just lots of implied violence.
Cady seems to be everywhere whispering in Sam Bowden's ear, threatening and tormenting him and his family.
Sam turns to the police but they can't do anything until Cady actually does something.
After serving 13 years of his sentence, a psychotic Cady is released from prison and tracks down Sam and his family.
My reservation about the novel is that, while it is reasonably entertaining, for some reason I simply wasn't all that bothered about how the events portrayed would pan out.
I am not surprised, however, that Hollywood snapped up the rights to the book - which in the version I have been reading is entitled "The Executioners" - and has filmed it not once but twice.
I haven't seen either version but I suspect that the story makes a better film than book.
⭐⭐⭐ Three Star Story! Enjoyed the positive family dynamics.The husband and wife real to lifeflirtatious banter was a hoot!Loved the HEA ending!!!Narrator Stephen Hoye was a disappointment.Almost clean except for some foul language.
⭐️⭐️⭐️ Three Star Story! Enjoyed the positive family dynamics.The husband and wife real to lifeflirtatious banter was a hoot!Loved the HEA ending!!!Narrator Stephen Hoye was a disappointment.Almost clean except for some foul language.
"[Society] is not set up to deal with a man who is trying specifically and irrationally to kill us," MacDonald writes in 1957.
(Sandy Hook, Orlando, Oklahoma City, Boston Marathon, etc.) MacDonald offers no solutions.
While the author is successful at painting a picture of a family in terror, the climax of the story falls disappointingly flat.
But perhaps MacDonald was writing a book about what it would be like to live life in terror and he is successful on that front.
If asked, I would say this book is "just okay", hence my two-star rating.
Okay, I have to preface this by saying that the movie of Cape Fear (the one starring Robert De Niro, Nick Nolte, and Juliette Lewis) is one of my all-time favorite movies.
It is SO incredibly suspenseful and well-acted!!!
I've never seen the first one (starring Gregory Peck and Robert Mitchem) but now that I've read the book, I would really like to see the original.I have to say that the book is not nearly as creepy or suspenseful as the movie (the remake), and there are many differences in plot and characters between the two.
Incredibly disturbing, but nonetheless well-written and vivid, certainly worth reading.
A thriller from start to finish.
I saw the second movie years ago, and did not realize how far the book deviated from the movie.
I liked the movie, but the book is far superior.
In a thriller, I think, it is important for the author to make the reader care about the characters, and for the characters to be realistic.
As I was reading the book, I also realized how far our laws have improved in this area, to ensure protection of citizens, especially children.
(Megan's Law in particular).
It is a thriller that has compassion and heart.
MacDonalds EIN KÖDER FÜR DIE BESTIE (OT „The Executioners“) ist ein lesenswerter Thriller, doch eines muss vorausgeschickt werden: So lustlos, wie das Cover auf der 1985er Neuauflage im Ullstein Verlag, so katastrophal ist die Übersetzung von Charlotte Richter.
Und es scheint kein Mittel zu geben, weder legal noch illegal, um sich Cadys wahnsinniger Rachephantasie entziehen zu können.Man könnte spekulieren, ob die Amerikaner ein besonderes Faible für diese Art der Bedrohung haben, das vielleicht auf der alten Siedlermentaliltät beruht.
Aber auch als deutscher Leser entzieht man sich der Spannung des Romans nicht.Fazit: Spannend und lesenswert, aber nicht in der Übersetzung von Charlotte Richter.
The rapist, Max Cady, was sentenced to a life of hard labor.Now Sam has become a somewhat stuffy small-town lawyer, secure in the bourne of his family: wife Carole, 14-year-old daughter Nancy, younger sons Jamie and Bucky.
Since I know the 1962 movie fairly well (for obvious reasons), it was inevitable that, the whole time I was reading The Executioners, I was making mental comparisons.With the exception of Sam having three kids in the book rather than just one, as in the movie, the plot is much the same except in the later stages.
MacDonald's birth, so my new year's resolution was to read as many of his non-Travis McGee books as I could.
I started with one of his best-known books, "Cape Fear," originally titled "The Executioners." I liked it, but it's not what I expected."Cape Fear," originally published in 1957, has been made into two classic movies -- the original from 1962, starring Gregory Peck as the law-loving hero Sam Bowden, and Robert Mitchum as the ex-con Max Cady who's threatening his family; and Martin Scorsese's 1991 remake starring Nick Nolte as the lawyer and Robert DeNiro as the crazy ex-con.
The other major difference from the movie version that was really surprising as I reread the novel is how few times Max Cady appears in scenes in the book.
In the movie Max Cady - particularly the DeNiro version - seems omnipresent, a malevolent force of nature that we see and fear.
In the book, Cady does not appear in very many scenes.
The big problem I have reading this book after having seen the film is that all I can think about is DeNiro's incredible performance.
Clearly this is a story that precedes novels and movies of recent decades. It is written almost like a Hitchcock story, with all of the suspense and build-up, but wherein the main antagonist is barely ever seen. It is and was an important book that must have influenced much of what we see today, but I found the pacing and the end result only somewhat satisfying. It is a great building block for writers to see a "how to" of suspense from a different era.
Stephen King says" Top 10 villains in books:10. Max Cady Don't recognize the name? Would it help if I said Cape Fear? Cady is the crazed-for-revenge psychopath who stalks the Bowden family in John D. MacDonald's The Executioners (1957). Played on the silver screen by Robert Mitchum in 1962 and Robert De Niro in 1991, but never more scary than in MacDonald's tightly wrapped novel."
Hmm, another rarity of the movie (DeNiro version) being better than the book. It was a great read but the ending was a bit of a let down. I guess it's because the movie is ingrained because I've seen it so many times and there are so many iconic scenes the book just felt a tad limp in comparison. Not bad.
