https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/910019.The_Discovery_of_the_Tomb_of_Tutankhamen
No matter how cliche Tut now is, to read of the tomb's discovery is terribly thrilling and envy-inspiring. I would also like to give a shout-out to Arthur Mace, who is not listed as one of the authors in this record, but in fact was quite dependable, meticulous, and in general instrumental in the discovery and documentation of the tomb.
A great feeling to read this book about the discovery of King Tut's (Tut.Ankh.Amen)'s tomb. So fascinating and satisfying.
The sense of awe and excitement at finding a near intact tomb and stepping into it for the first time since the 19th Dynasty is there, and I found this a moving aspect of the book.Carter doesn't just focus on the discovery, and also has a chapter on the historical context and what was known about Tutankhamun pre-discovery which was interesting.
I have yet to do so though).All in all, very interesting and enjoyable to read and it filled me with envy of Howard Carter and, indeed, everyone else involved in the excavation.
إقرؤا هذا الكتاب كي تعرفوا كم كنا عظماء..كيف حقآ وقف الخلق ينظرون جميعا كيف أبني قواعد المجد وحدي!
نظره علي تاريخ وحضارة أمه سبقت جميع الأمم في كل شيء من حبات الخرز التي تزين أصغر قطعه فنيه إلي المقصورات الذهبيه المزينه بالنقوش والرسومات الحيه والتي تجسد حياة ملك عظيم وتاريخ بلد كانت عظيمه ..
فلتقفوا لحظة إجلال وخشوع فأنتم في حضرة جلالة الملك توت عنخ آمون..
Very well written
This is the 1977 republication of Howard Carter's original 1923 publication on his discovery and opening of King Tutenkahem's tomb in Egypt's valley of the king's, timed for the 50 year anniversary of Carter's discovery.My only objection to this book is that in addition to the original prologue and introduction, there is another introduction that updates the story of Tutenkahem after 50 more years of study; so, the 2 introductions and prologue take up 75 pages before you get to the meat of the story.
All of the archeologists at the time knew King Tutenkahem's tomb was still unaccounted for, but Carter's ability to read the unexplored terrain remaining in th valley of the kings put him in the position to make this find.The book goes on to describe the actual finding, opening, and documenting of the tomb itself.
A book written by an archeologist that had a difficult time expressing the emotional state and wonderment that he was in when he discovered the tomb and saw the artifacts.
It was about like we punched a hole in the entrance and saw a gold wall.
He did however describe the objects with a lack luster demeanor even though he made a few statements letting the reader know that it was dazzling.
What Carter failed to express in written form was somewhat vindicated by the photographs, but unfortunately the were all in black-and-white and the relics of gold were less impressive as the appeared as stone object.
So Tutankhamun (and Egypt) have always held a special place in my heart. So for be, being able to read about that first year of the discovery of the Pharaoh Tutankhamun’s tomb was just amazing for me.I also recently got to go to the King Tut exhibit at the California Science Center, which was utterly amazing (and partly why I read the book).This was a really well done book, and I’m so glad I read it.
The Discovery of the Tomb of Tutankhamen***1/2Howard Carter's first-hand account of his monumental discovery of King Tut's tomb is a quick and fascinating read.
When he first poked his head in the antechamber, Carter was asked "Can you see anything?" to which he replied "Yes, wonderful things." Wonderful things indeed.
The book's 105 illustrations (unfortunately in black and white) show the sumptuous splendor of the boy king's tomb.
The only disappointment was the fact that it was written after the initial discovery but before the pharaoh's casket itself was opened, so many of the subsequent discoveries within the tomb are left out.
An intriguing read on the discovery of Tutankhamun's tomb by Howard Carter himself.
Carter touches on a wide range of topics - Tutankhamun's context, the history of the Valley of the Kings, his previous work at the Valley, before focusing on the discovery of the tomb itself, and the methods he used for conservation and preservation.
A word to the wise, however: this book finishes just after the burial chamber is opened and a precursory survey of that chamber is made - the burial itself is left intact.
A note on this edition: there are three (I think) introductions/prefaces before you get to the book proper, one of which is a forty page biography of Lord Carnarvon.
This book never put me off the hook. Such a thrilling adventure into the tomb of one of the most popular and mysterious kings ever lived on this planet. And this discovery means so much to all historians around the globe. I could only imagine the wealth hidden in these pyramids during the time they were built. Tragically, almost all of'em were ravaged and destroyed by the treasure seekers but still good to know these boys could find some good stuff unharmed, could be worthless to a bandit but priceless to any historian
Wow. Howard Carter has always been one of the people I most respect in this world, and I'm so glad that I finally got to read an extended report written by him. The pictures were fantastic, also. I was a bit disappointed however, that the book ended at the discovery of the tomb, and didn't go into detail at all about the findings or the king himself. I mean, it was called the discovery of the tomb of tutankhamen, after all! Alltogether it was pretty good, though.
Howard Carter's really interesting and well-written first-hand account of the discovery of King Tutankhamen's tomb in 1922, complete with plenty of photographs of items in situ. This covers the first year of their work at the tomb, and I'm definitely planning on picking up the second and third volumes whenever I manage to track them down. Certainly worth a read if you have any interest in archaeology.
Having just visited Egypt and seen this tomb and the treasures at the museum, I was interested to read of Carter's personal experiences of the discovery. This book is perfect- it outlines a bit of Tutankhamun's history before describing the discovery and the world's reaction to it. It details the treasures that were found and describes the excavation and preservation of them in detail. Really interesting, easy to read and informative.
I give this 5 stars.The book kept me interested throughout. Howard Carter is a really good writer. Maybe a lot of people are burned out on reading about King Tut. Thank goodness I am not. I think everyone should read this because, like someone else says: It's very interesting reading about the discovery of the Pharaoh Tut-Ankh-Amen's tomb.I liked it a lot!
That was really interesting, before I thought the dude was as bad as those who came before him, but apparently not! Carter was apparently really into the whole preservation thing, and we're lucky he was! This book made me dream about the slow uncovering of artifacts, and only the best of books can do that, just a shame it wasn't written a little later. And why is Volume 2 so expensive!
I found the description of procedures for excavation absolutely fascinating. Carter is as good a writer as he was an archaeologist, he puts you right the along side him in the desert and tombs.Going from his photos to the Cairo museum's online shots of some of the same items after cleaning and re-construction will show more than words what a wonder find this was.
This was the first of a collection in excess of 80 volumes now on my shelves, more than half of which I have since read. well written. Carter got started in his teens as an artist on the expeditions of others. This tome details the highpoint of his career, and perhaps the highpoint of modern egyptological research.
Good
.
Amazing for someone who discovered the tomb after his "employees"
Deatailed book about the discovery of the tomb. A good read.
Fascinating. Loved this. The pictures are amazing too.
