https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45020.Shakespeare_s_Landlord
On the other hand, she is like a lot of Charlaine Harris's females - just a bit bitchy for no reason.
Just like Sookie, and Fiji from the last series, Lily gets offended over everything and is rude to people who really don't deserve it.
I guess we have to give her a pass because of her past, but it seems like a pattern with the females in these series.
In real life, I have rarely met any women who are so over-sensitive and rude.
Maids know everything about everyone.
I will keep reading and hope that Lily grows on me.
Expecting fluff, I was very impressed with this book, which, while being a lot darker than her other books, had so much more depth and character than I was expecting.
I love the main character, Lily Bard, who after living through a very traumatic past, which scarred her both physically and emotionally, is trying to live a very quiet, simple life in Shakespeare, working as a cleaning lady and keeping to herself.
I was very impressed with this book and the depth of the main character.
The mystery that Lily faced was fun to try to solve along with her and the involvement of the other characters made this a wonderful read.
There’s a nice little comforting feel I get when I enter one of Charlaine Harris’ worlds.
I know I will be in a nice, down home, small town world.This down home comfort feel is most evident in her Lily Bard series.
What better way to give insight into a world than by using a cleaning lady as a main character?
This cleaning lady knows everyone’s secrets.
I found it fascinating that the main character Lily could learn so much about her clients without really having to speak with them.Lily’s character is an exercise in contracts.
I read this book in order to count it for Arkansas in my US state challenge.
The author uses a familiar formula: A private citizen, in this case, Lily Bard, cleaning lady, is suspected of murder and decides to solve the murder herself.
Lily puts it together by assembling a time line of where all the possible suspects were at the time of the murder.
I did not suspect the murderer until the end.I should warn you that there a brutal gang rape scene that is central to one of the characters outlook.This is book 1 in the series of 5.
This is the first book in her Lily Bard series.
In some ways, these books are amongst my favorites.
They're darker than her Sookie Stackhouse books but explore her themes to perfection: the outsider trying to make her way through the hypocrisy of self-satisfied conventional society, the flawed heroes and understandable villains, the dark humor inherent in even the most serious of situations.
I keep hoping she'll find time to give us more Lily Bard (although she did give Lily a guest appearance in one of Sookie's books, which was great fun).
This is not my favorite Charlaine Harris novel.
However, it is a good and quick read if your looking for something light and are a fan of the author (as I am).
I really wanted to love this one because I really love the Sookie Stackhouse series AND the Harper Connelly series.
And while I can appreciate WHY she is the way she is, there was just a disconnect there.
Anyway, I will continue the series to see where it goes and because I already own a few of the other ones.
Hopefully I will see some more character development.
I really enjoyed this little mystery, set in Shakespeare, Arkansas.
Lily Bard, the community cleaning lady, has chosen this small town on a whim because of her last name.
It seems like the perfect sleepy little community in which to avoid her traumatic past and live a quiet life.Harris excels at portraying small town life, using ordinary people as characters.
Lily is not someone that most people pay a lot of attention to—as a cleaning lady, she tends to blend into the background.
Lily has a skill that many women have—she pays attention to detail and she can analyze those details to come to accurate conclusions.
Lily Bard, on the other hand, is a powerfully written character.
Her past is haunting and scary and her convictions and personality that emerge within this story are actually heartbreaking.
Lily Bard (spoilerz) is a past victim of random acts of sexual and other physical violence.
Throughout this book, Lily never backs down from or caves in to male oppression or power unlike so many other female protagonists living in popular book series.
Lily's character development is a refreshing take on what a main character can be even with all of the typically-Harris male admirers and protagonist beatings that happen before the happy ending.
My eye immediately settled on the Lily Bard series of mysteries also known as the "Shakespeare" mysteries because main character Lily lives in the small town of Shakespeare, Arkansas, and because each book has the word Shakespeare in the title.
After chopping her hair off, toning her body into lean, mean fighting machine, and then hiding it all under the baggiest and blandest of clothes, Lily decides to settle in the sleepy, little town of Shakespeare, Arkansas in an attempt to disappear.
Lily Bard has a dark past that Harris only hints at, by the end of the book I still really didn't know what had happened to Lily to make her run and set up home in a small town like Shakespeare.
One of the most fun aspects to "Shakespeare's Landlord" is that it had me guessing until the very end, which is a very good thing for a mystery and something which doesn't happen for me very often.
As with most first books in a series it took me a little time to get into the story, but when I did I had great time visiting Shakespeare town.VERDICT:"Shakespeare's Landlord" is a fun cosy mystery.
Shakespeare's Landlord4 StarsWorking as a housekeeper in the sleepy town of Shakespeare, Arkansas, Lily Bard only wants a life of peace and quiet.
Unfortunately, chaos and turmoil rain down when she witnesses a body disposal in the local park and nasty gifts begin arriving on her doorstep.
The secondary cast comprised of the small town residents each with their own quirks, foibles and secrets is particularly well-developed, and it is fun to follow the suspects and clues to the mystery along with Lily.
Each of the characters have distinct personalities and she manages to convey the small town atmosphere very well.
Meh. Racist despite trying not to be which just seemed terrible and sad.
Very enjoyable. I had read a couple of Lily Bard books years ago and enjoyed them. This I had not yet read. Lily is tough and intelligent and a loner. She keeps to herself most of the time and she has secrets. When one of her neighbours is murdered she gets drawn into the mystery against her will. She starts to get to know her neighbours and perhaps even makes a friend or two, even though she doesn't want to.
The plot is a little thin with the story focused far more on the main character, Lily's, journey recovering from her difficult past rather than the pesky murder she witnessed.
Lily, however, is quite difficult to like: gratuitously rude to others, extremely judgemental, a little racist, and a fan of slut shaming.
I didn't see where the murder mystery element of the story was going - I found it happily unpredictable, but I don't think I'll be rushing to the library to get the rest of the books in the series.
Lily Bard is an unusual character who is scarred both mentally and physically.
She's an unusual main in a mystery but that only adds to the storylines.
The small town element always intrigues, and with this one set in her own apartment building with all the suspects living next door, it makes it more interesting.
There may be a small love triangle in sight - I know who I'm rooting for already.
The killer was a surprise and the small clue was actually there, but it's hard to catch unless you give it deeper thought than I did.
I am going to reveiew the entire 5 books series with one review.
I like Lily Bard better that the Aurora Teagarden character.
And I think this series is better written that the previous one.
I like the relationship Lily has (books 2 - 5) with Jack.
As well as how she fits into the Shakespeare community.I really like how strong Lily Bard is (both physically and emotional).
I've read that this was a hard series for Charlaine Harris to write and I fully understand.
Unfortunately, because they are so hard to write, I've also heard that there will be no new books in the series.
Shakespeare's Landlord is a cozy mystery set in the sleepy town of Shakespeare, with Lily Bard doing almost as much detecting as she did cleaning.This and all my other reviews are originally posted on my blog  (un)Conventional Bookviews
I am absolutely innocent of everything but a strong urge to go to bed with you and/or hire you to prepare my next tax statement.”I had a little laugh to myself, which was something I needed before I went to my next job.As for the rest of the book and series (maybe a little bit too early to make assumptions...
I might be wrong but oh boy how surprised I'll be if all that mentioned men in this first book won't get together with Lily at one point or the other....
I'm ending my evening in the same way that Lily did in this first book of the series - going to sleep.
3,75 stars ;) I had a 1-6 grading system at school and 3 still sounds kind of bad to me :P I really liked this book :) I'm just gonna repeat after someone else's review, but yes, this book is way darker than other works of Charlaine Harris.
Instead, I can't wait for the postman to deliver the next installments <3 This book won't blow your mind, but it's a good mystery, with a strong female character (I wish I could be as self-assertive as she is) that doesn't let other people boss her around.
Oh, and I like it way better than Harper Connelly :P Looking forward to reading the second installment!
I chose this book because Charlaine Harris is the author chosen this month for the Featured Author Challenge, and I wanted to find something other than Sookie Stackhouse.
This has much more depth than the Sookie series, and Lily Bard is a character the reader can empathize with.
Lily is a flawed character, not because of anything she did but because of what was done to her.
In the process, she starts interacting with others, and it's that part of the story that made this more than a murder mystery.
I'll leave the Sookie books to others and continue with Lily's story.
I really enjoyed the characters in this book and definitely want to learn more about them. I loved the way Lily's mind worked to figure things out. I also liked how she dealt with her nightmares and remembering what happened to her by walking or going to the gym. I think the martial arts really enabled her to be more confident that she could take care of herself if necessary. The mystery didn't keep my interest though. I will be continuing the series and am curious about the next case.
3.5 stars. It took me a long time to warm up to Lily and her relationship with Marshall was on the verge of skanky. I had no idea until the end of the book who the actual murderer was, which is a nice surprise. I've been reading mysteries for a long time and I usually have an idea. I have the paperback and listened to the audiobook. Narrator did a pretty good job.
I was expecting a cozy mystery, something similar to Murder She Wrote or the Crossword Lady books.
In fact, I was surprised by Lily's past as I was not expecting a character with so much baggage.
In fact, I did not guess who the murderer was at all, and when Harris revealed the perpetrator and the motive, I was definitely surprised.
The fact that Ms. Harris is able to craft a mystery that actually surprised me with it's ending is a selling point and has solidified my resolve to read the rest of the series.
I'm not a fan of Charlaine Harris' Sookie Stackhouse books because I think Sookie is an annoying character - a tease and always a damsal in distress and then argues when someone tries to save her but wonders when someone will save her.
She is who she is and that is exactly what you get, and I really like that.I'm only giving this book three stars because I felt like Harris herself wasn't even really sure who the murderer was as she wrapped up the end of the book.
When her landlord is murdered, loner Lily Bard looks like the prime suspect.
This was yet another enjoyable cozy mystery from the prolific pen of Charlaine Harris.I liked Lily Bard quite a lot.
She was a strong, brave, resilient woman, who managed to overcome her haunted past to start a new life in the little town of Shakespeare.
Afraid that the police investigation would reveal her past to everyone in the little town, Lily was determined to solve the mystery and keep the attention off herself.Lily's profession as a cleaning woman enabled her to learn quite a bit about the inhabitants of Shakespeare.
Lily had suffered from a random, violent assault years ago and has since spent time keeping people from getting close and living a quiet and nearly anonymous life as a cleaning woman and karate student in the small town of Shakespeare, Arkansas.
Harris has said the series (she has written five) is likely on permanent hiatus as she found them too difficult to write given the assault in her own past.
Oh-the mystery involves Lily Bard accidentally witnessing her nosy neighbor's body being dumped in the park across from her house.
Anyways, I know I'll have to continue on with more of the books just to be sure it's not a 'first book' thing.
Of course, I think I was following all the red herrings and I was somewhat interested in the main character's background story to really see what was there all along.
And that may have been to add to the awkwardness of the main character who was basically telling this story, who was socially awkward - but I just felt it went a little too far somehow.
Other than that pet peeve, it was an ok book and I 'll be sure to pick up the next.
Harris is great with characters, developing them and making the reader fall in love with them.
Lily Bard is the lead character in this mystery, if you have read Harris' other series, she is unlike Harper and Sookie.
Similar to Sookie and Harper, Lily is a loner.
I like Lily and am looking forward to how her character will progress.
Harris surprised me with this story, I did not have the mystery solved before the end, which was nice.
After I read this book I felt like cleanimg my house, cooking dinner and then working out.
I plan on reading the next in the series.
It seems all Charlaine Harris' series follow the same pattern: female protagonist involved in a crime who at the same time becomes suddenly attractive to several men; mystery set in a small southern town; books filled with details of everyday life of its residents.Lily Bard series is no different.
Lily lives in a small Arkansas town of Shakespeare, runs a cleaning business and practices self-defense in her spare time.
This series seems to be darker than other Harris' series due to the protagonist's disturbing past.
I intend to continue on reading the rest of this series.Recommended to those who enjoy Charlaine Harris' writing style and mysteries.
