https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13812.Magician
I look forward to reading it eventually and finding out, but my point is that I think Feist's series is great and I want to spread the news (also, it is 30 books long - with two to four book story arcs within it.
As soon as 30 more people give this series a try because of this review, I will immediately begin reading Game of Thrones.
Or, I will just keep an eye on how many of my friends have rated it and as soon as it gets to 38, Game of Thrones is a go!Note: In this series, I am up to book 11 and it is still going great!Warning to readers!
Pug got picked to be the magician Kulgan's apprentice while Tomas was to be trained as a soldier.
The duke let Tomas come along because of Pug. They were have a fine time of it until they are attacked and people and animals start keeling over left and right.
I know it's weird to say but this was the best part of the book to me because Dolgan finds Tomas with a dragon.
At any rate I enjoyed this one a lot even though I don't know what all is going to happen.
I think it was set up nicely for the next book.
Then I came to the understanding that if I stuck with this trend, there would be way too many good books I might never get to enjoy in my lifetime.
Different books affect me in different ways, and thank goodness for that abundance of diversity out there!
I would recommend this book and series to everyone who loves the Fantasy genre, those who are interested in getting acquainted with it, and even those who just now start showing interest in reading - a story like this is bound to get anyone addicted to the magic of reading!!!
Earlier this year I got back into the fantasy genre by reading Patrick Rothfuss' The Name of the Wind.
Since then I've been reading backwards; finding the authors Rothfuss was favorably compared to and reading their books.
Simply put Magician: Apprentice lacks the subtlety, beauty, and complexity of the other works of fantasy (or even plain old fiction) I've read this year.
The description and consideration of the Kelewan world, its people, and their customs is far more interesting than anything in the first book, but the writing and characters still feel tired and one dimensional.
Via Book Reviews by Niki Hawkes at www.nikihawkes.comWhen customers approach me for a fantasy recommend, I always ask: have you read Feist?
As the long-time favorite of my family, "Magician: Apprentice" is the book that first inspired my love of the genre.
As for the hardcore fantasy fans, this book should definitely be on your list of "must-reads."Recommendations: As much as I loved this book, it's hard to believe that I loved a trilogy by Feist and Wurts even more.
Read the "Magician: Apprentice" and "Magician: Master" first, then take some time to read the "Daughter of the Empire" trilogy before moving on to the third Riftwar book (Silverthorn).
Given this, it isn’t really fair to judge the first volume on many points, so keep in mind that my review applies almost exclusively to this first volume.The Magician: Apprentice is a story centered on — you guessed it — a magician’s apprentice named Pug who finds himself an unlikely hero when the world of Midkemia is invaded by the Tsurani from another dimension.
I liked the main character, it seemed like it might be interesting.
Then they walked into the mines of Moria, visited Galadriel in Lothlorien, (but he renamed them all, cuz he's smart like that) and the main character disappeared halfway through the narrative.The characters were flat as cardboard, particularly the females, and he spent most of his time telling rather than showing.
Eventually the main character shows up, in the second half of this book which was published as Magician:Master.
Feist offers a fantasy world on the brink of war from a threat that has the capacity to bring great change to Midkemia as they know it.
It sets up an incredible culture clash that takes this novel to a wider focus as the Midkemians have to work together to stave off the invasion of forces from another world.Initially, it seems that Pug, our young magician apprentice, is the center of this story.
I first read this book shortly after it came out in the early 80's while in my 20's.
It's every bit as enjoyable on the 4th read almost 30 years later.
In many ways, it is a very typical fantasy, but the character's pop very well & the world has enough new elements to make it quite intriguing.
The quick pace hides a complexity that becomes apparent as the story progresses & we're led deeper into the world.
Since I have a towering TBR pile, I re-read sparingly.
I'm so happy I did this again.On to Magician: Master.
I’m still not sure how to write this review, because my feelings towards the book are mixed (to say the least), so I’m gonna go with the old way: things I liked and things I didn’t like.Let’s start off with the things I liked:-Amazing world Feist created.
I wish we heard more from him-Amazing first half of the book.
I really wish that we had more fighting scenes in the book-Also the lack of magic.
I really wish that we’ll get more of that in next book-Slow middle.
After amazing beginning, we got to not so amazing middle, and it stayed like that ‘til the end.
While lacking a certain level of complexity, it was at all points entertaining, with the story beginning from a point and then branching out to several story-lines, and I can't point out which one I like better than the other.
Though Pug's story-line ends in a manner that makes me anxious, I liked best Arutha's development and the going-ons at Crydee.
I can't see where is Mr. Feist going with Tomas.
I'd like to explore and experience more of the magic of Midkemia, because we see very less of it, and understand lesser, despite the book's title.
His DM took these two settings, loosely filed off the serial numbers (Middle Earth becomes Midkemia, Tekumel becomes Tsurani), and set an apparently well beloved game on those worlds with the interesting premise - "What if these two worlds came into contact?" Young Mr. Feist, enthused by the mind-blowing concepts that the game introduced to him, and apparently largely unaware that all this is mostly coming to him second hand rather than out of the mind of his formidable Dungeon Master, and having thoroughly enjoyed the story that was collectively produced, decided to novelize the game and its major themes in his first novel: "Magician".
Then, since I liked the movie Halloween so much (yes, at 10 years of age I had watched it about a dozen times), I started reading Stephen King.
Whether it was the time of my life that the story spoke to so well or just my own mentallity, this book and series is my flagship of favorite works, and I still revert to reading them when I am depressed, happy, sad, joyous, lonely or content.
He is not a great author, but he is certainly a good author.
Apart from the more overt aspects of these clashes, Feist excels at portraying the fascinating internecine struggles that plague the human kingdom above and beyond the obvious conflict delivered to their gates via these strange portals.If you are looking for a light read that might cater to compulsive reading in either bed or bathroom, Magician: Apprentice and Magician: Master may just fit the bill (I figured since I had already opened the floodgates of clichés, a couple more wouldn't kill us anymore than the first had).
I was going to give this 4 stars until 60-70% through. The last part of the book was pretty boring. The main character exits the book around this point, and then the 2nd main character exits shortly after and then it just feels like filler until the end. I liked many of the characters and wasn't as bothered as some reviewers by the "fantasy cliche" of it all. I am on the fence about this and I guess I need to read the next book to figure out if I want to keep going or not.
Feist is known for creating the Riftwar Cycle and with Magician: Apprentice, he sets the foundation to one of the most popular universes ever created in fantasy.
Everything it presents is authentic and succeeds in capturing the essence of a perfect fantasy story.I was personally hooked from the moment I cracked open this book and that’s because of Raymond E.
Magician: Apprentice is simply one story that all fans of fantasy should try out for themselves.Thank you to Penguin Random House Canada for sending me a copy for review!Yours truly,Lashaan | Blogger and Book ReviewerOfficial blog: https://bookidote.com/
Buddy read with the Fantasy Freaks from BB&B.Choko did it once again!
So thank you, Choko!This was a surprisingly easy to read book.
As with most Fantasy books we get an orphan with magical potential and mysterious past/parentage as the main character.
At the beginning I had my doubts about Princess Carline and the squire Rolan but over the course of the book they managed to redeem themselves in my eyes and grow into characters I could root for.
The rest of the secondary characters quickly became favourites of mine with the way they banter with each other and their general awesomeness.
2.5 stars. It has been a while since I read this but I remember thinking it was decent but not great. Given the number of really positive reviews, I have put this on my list of books to re-read in case I missed something the first time around.
4 stars
Uneven but still promising enough to continue. Wonderful first third, forgettable climax. Buddy read with my dear friend Svetlana.
3.5 stars rounded up to 4 stars.It is interesting to be reading the Belgariad by David Eddings and the Riftwar Saga by Raymond Feist at the same time.
(The rather unbelievable part of the plot is that both civilizations on both sides of the rift have virtually identical technologies otherwise).Pluses: fast moving plot, innovative way to introduce enemies, interesting magical system.Minuses: not much for female characters to do (and they are depicted as moody & changeable, very stereotypical), can’t stand the name Pug for the main character.I wonder why we, as fantasy fans, are so enamoured of medieval-type settings?
Executive Summary: Traditional fantasy that while enjoyable for me, isn't as good as the fantasy being released today. Full Review Last month I was visited Borderlands and wanted to pick up something to read on the flight home. Yes I have a ton of unread ebooks, but I still prefer paper, especially when on a plane. Also, I have a book buying problem.I've been meaning to check out Raymond Feist for awhile, so this seemed like a good time to finally do so. I read about half of the book during my t
Despite that, when I got home, I was never very quick to pick it back up, often going several days between reading sessions, when most of the time I read at least an hour each day.To be fair to the book, I'm in a bit of a reading slump right now (at least in text), but a really good book would have been more likely to break me of that.The setting and characters all feel pretty standard for older fantasy.
Much to the idiotic confusion of the protagonists.
I was constantly screaming at the book "THEY ARE BURROWING UNDER THE OTHER SIDE OF THE CASTLE!!!".
Alas, this confusion went on and on and on for about 100 pages until 'SIR!!
THE ENEMY IS BURROWING UNDER THE CASTLE'...Well, it was at that point that i screamed in frustration and shelved the book, never to pick it up again.
Infact i picked up a Danielle Steel novel in its place, how bad must Raymond E.Feist be if i turn to Danielle Steel for comfort?
I was challenged/coerced into reading this by my Goodreads friend Matthew!
Got to find out what happened after the cliffhanger ending.The story reminds me of _The Hobbit_, without the poetry and flowery language.
I am too pragmatic to enjoy poetical writing and I was never fond of Tolkien's _Silmarillion_, even if I am a great fan of the Hobbits.
Feist's writing combines many of the elements Tolkien used, but with a faster and, for me, a more streamlined and exciting story line.
Great, great read, just the sort of thing I enjoy.
Feel Good Fantasy!My first Feist and certainly not my last. I’m in for the long haul. Bring on the thirty sequels, you don’t scare me!This is a considered world of honor, magic, mystery, passion, and adventure. If you’ve never picked up this book you should.
Ah, at last I finished it! Strangely enough, I have mixed feelings about this one - it was actually a really engaging book, with likable characters and a nice plot (although not without its flaws), good writing and an interesting story, but it was soooo long! I felt as if I was wading through the pages, oppressed by the amount of the remaining pages. I'll probably read the next one, but much later, when I gather some courage to face it.
This book was not my favorite. It can be a tad slow at times and it doesn't have a lot of action, but I liked the world and the story. I will definitely read the second book.
“Some love comes like the wind off the sea, while others grow slowly from the seeds of friendship and kindness."  Almost a month with this book... I was originally gonna marathon through it but I failed epically because I overlooked the sheer density this single 690-page book holds... Source of Gif The Story has similarities to other fantasy stories from  a chosen one trope to multiple political stories  but it overlooked the ones I have read (which aren't that many sadly) with a  SciFi  eleme
Regardless as the story progressed so did the separate story arcs come to form a big picture and we got to see incredible character growth and stunning scenes that involve magic, that just made the book for me.
So I wouldn't even try to explain or summarize the plot of the book because of its overlapping story lines that mesh together to form on big epic story like most in the fantasy genre but if you enjoy Epic Fantasy like Lord of the Rings 0r  A Song of Ice & Fire with a hint of SciFi you will be keen to try this.
Sorry, but how is this plainly described, one dimensional book so well rated? I'm 200 pages in and bored rigid and utterly fed up of the random lucky events the characters go thru.The line that sticks out is: Dragons were the hereditary enemy of dwarves.Sorry it's just poorly written, based in a second hand middle earth and I've seen better characters in the mr men books.I paid 95p for it from a a charity shop and I feel robbed.
5 skewed by nostalgia stars.Full review to come (maybe)
