https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29749085-wonder-woman
“Sister in battle,” murmured Diana, “I am shield and blade to you.”“And friend.”“And always your friend.” Wonder Woman has gotten quite the makeover this year and I must confess: I really like it. From the movie with Gal Gadot, to this wicked little tale of female empowerment, one of my least favourite superheroes is rapidly becoming a new favourite. And apparently Catwoman, Superman and Batman are also being remade by popular YA authors. After this, I'm excited for more.You know, at first, I w
And I was surprised by how much emotion Bardugo packed into it.In this Wonder Woman story, Alia is on board a ship near the island where Diana and her Amazonian sisters live when a bomb detonates.
Aside from the white Diana, Alia and her brother are Greek/African-American and identify as black, Theo is Brazilian, and Nim is Indian, gay, fat and so very fucking awesome.What I thought was an interesting choice that somehow worked is that the author kind of makes this Wonder Woman story as much about the other characters as it is about Diana Prince.
4.5*I love Leigh Bardugo SO much and she did such an amazing job with this story. I loved how it showed the power of strong female friendships and just girl power in general. My only complaint is that I felt there wasn't quite enough action for a superhero novel. Booktalk to come!! I will link it when it's up.*Thank you to Chapters Indigo for providing me with an ARC!*
I really thought that by now I would have already been adopted by the Amazons of Themyscira who, admittedly, hated the world of men but found a soft spot for idiotic yet well-intended me, carving a path for me towards self-acceptance after a sixty minute movie/montage of me facing my deepest fears and some nice scenic shots maybe...This book was a good and quite fulfilling substitute for the fantasy though!  “The sun sets. An age of heroes begins. And I believe I promised you a beautiful death.”
I have a lot of feelings about this book, and I think we need more situations where everyone collectively agrees that it’s socially appropriate to SCREAM because I haven’t been on a roller coaster in like, two years and boy do I have *a lot* of things to let out.But first, can I just take a moment to stress the fact that I love Wonder Woman and the Amazons with my entire heart?
I hope when humanity dies, all we leave behind are those books with strong female characters who share healthy meaningful friendships where all parties feel cared for and listened to and who don’t need to be romantically validated to matter.
One of the shortest reviews to what I thought would be a long review of one of my favorite comic book characters.
Wonder Woman and the Hulk were my favorite characters of all time when I was growing up.
I love old school Diana.
All the stars goes to Wonder Woman and I liked Alia well enough but it just didn't hit me the right way.
I didn't care for anyone else in the book.
Lol I'm glad so many loved it to death because this is the way of the new world.
Okay,  maybe  it's just me...but I was expecting  more  Diana, along with everyone she's ever known, lives on a secret island - devoted to the strongest female warriors known to mankind. Sisters in battle, I am shield and blade to you. As I breathe, your enemies will know no sanctuary. While I live, your cause is mine. Every warrior has proven herself time, and time again...well, except for Diana.Diana is the only one who was born (and raised) on the island. And while she's loved by all...there
Diana, along with everyone she's ever known, lives on a secret island - devoted to the strongest female warriors known to mankind.
I feel like there are so many books that treat race as Race - and wrap the entire story around Race.
I'm all for having books about Race but sometimes it's really nice to have books with race as a side-part of the story.
We cannot spend our lives in hiding, wondering what we might accomplish if given the chance.
‘‘Sister in battle, I am shield and blade to you. As I breathe, your enemies will know no sanctuary. While I live, your cause is mine.’’ If you’re expecting this to be anything like Leigh Bardugo’s previous written works, expect no more. It would be a bad idea if you did, because this is a very different beast.Wonder Woman is a legend, but before she became one, she was just a princess, trying to prove to herself and her sisters that she is much, much more than that. That she is a true Amazon.A
They are introduced to the bare minimum and quickly, as most of the novel is spent in company of Diana, Alia and the latter’s entourage.
I have nothing bad to say about Alia, but I do find underwhelming that this book was as much about her as it was about Diana.
I guess I should have seen it coming, given the fact that the title is Wonder Woman: Warbringer.I thought it would be about Diana first and foremost, but that’s not the case here.
“I imagine all wars look the same to those who die in them.”  First off, Leigh Bardugo is honestly the queen of writing and I’m not sure what any of us did to deserve her, but I am forever and always going to count her as a blessing. This story is so beautifully written, and I had to tab so many pages with powerful quotes. Leigh also always writes diverse casts that I fall instantly in love with. Like, when do I get a full book about Nim? Because I need that in my life immediately. ➽Diana – Wh
*swoons forever* So, this book really starts off with a bang *wink*, when a ship explodes near Themyscira, the island where the Amazons live and there is no fear of war or conflict.
Diana then seeks out an Oracle who tells her the options she has, and the paths she can take, to save not only her island, but the world itself.We are then swept away on a tale that spans from New York City to Greece, from humans to ancient Gods, about powerful girls, unconditional friendships, and the cruelness of men.
But the heart of this story is friendship, and how unconditional love from the people you choose to call family is the most powerful force in the world.
But this reads fully like a decent superpowered exciting action adventure story and I thoroughly loved it!
And who the heck knows what's going on with my paperback, but the font was so tiny I lost about 9 years off my eyeballs.But 10/10 am willing to suffer for Diana.ALSO NOTE: I actually knew NOTHING about Wonder Woman, apart from the duh obvious she's Wonder Woman before reading this.
They were sisters of war by the end, even if Alia was a smol breakable human nerd and Diana is like AMAZON EPIC.
Excuse me???• I didn't quite understand why they were working their butts off to save Alia's life, but like....other people died in the crossfire.
Wonder Woman can crush me between her thighs and I'd probably be all heart eyes while she does it. 🤷 \_(ツ)_/i don't think you guys understand how badly i want to live on the island of Themyscira!!! where everything is pure and magical with beautiful, bad ass ladies around every corner!!! anyways, this book is about Wonder Women aka Diana who was made of clay and bought to life by the gods themselves. on an island where every Amazon has proved themselves worthy to live on in peace, Diana feels un
→Diana is such a pure, innocent and strong character, i love her so fucking much y'all akbjkvbds.
despite the fact that she can easily crush us with her bare hands, she's so kind and has infinite love for mortals, y'all what did we ever do to deserve her?
thinking about Alia's character is like hugging a really soft dog 😍.
just because people want to kill each other while they're around her, doesn't mean Alia is a horrible person.
i love them.these characters go through so much shit that only makes them grow into better people.
I know Wonder Woman’s history is based on Greek mythology, and if they were just mentioned that was fine, but a couple of times they appeared I still do not understand why, and the other I think the story would have been better for Diane to triumph or fail on her own.
I would have also liked more fight in the story considering her warrior heritage.
I would not mind a continuation of this incarnation of Diane to returns as the true warrior/Wonder Woman, I think there is enough left to warrant that.
Written by my favourite author - TICKAbout my favourite DC Hero - TICKIncredile Dialouge - TICKAction on point - TICKDiverse, relatable & fabulous characters - TICKThis is why LEIGH IS THE
There was once a time when I would write reviews that wee NOT lists but those times are over folks, I genuinely forgot how to write paragraphs in my attempts of being an edgy teenager so im back with another list-review, my fav Reasons why You Will Love this Book - Leigh the queen Bardugo wrote it- Wonder woman fictional tale??? Sign me the heck up- Sisterhood and some heartfelt stuff are featured - No girl hate, rejoice my friends- The characters are unique and multi-dimensional - Diana’s encou
Sign me the heck up-	Sisterhood and some heartfelt stuff are featured -	No girl hate, rejoice my friends-	The characters are unique and multi-dimensional -	Diana’s encounters with the modern world will have you spitting out your tea in laughter (bc she’s hilariously naïve)-	Lots of kicka*s moments-	Lots of fem power-	There’s a plot twist at the end that is SOOOOOOOOOOO leigh bardugo it pains me-	It was good tho, got me gooooood -	Mythology that made sense to me bc I read percy Jackson before :’) im proud 
‘Wonder Woman: Warbringer’ is one of the books you pretty much fly through, that absolutely absorbs you right from the beginning and then leaves you sitting there at the end of it, staring at the last page because you can’t believe that it’s already over.
Another thing she’s really good at is slipping in funny moments when you don’t expect anything like that to happen and my book is once again full of green sticky notes that I use to highlight funny things.But one of the best things about ‘Wonder Woman: Warbringer’ were definitely the amazing characters Leigh Bardugo has created.
I either dislike them or find them boring.
Or hate them because I find them boring.
That being said, I do care deeply for Diana Prince.
Diana has never seen the world outside her sheltered home before, which is why her reactions are often stunning and hilarious.
I also know for a fact the Leigh giggled to herself when she wrote this particular scene:One has to love the world wide web.Anyway, it was an amazing book and I would love to see a sequel or two in the future.
Find more of my books on Instagram
Am I psyched for this because it's about Wonder Women? Or because it was written by my queen, Leigh Bardugo? Yes.

I’ve never been a Wonder Woman fan in my past (I was always more of a Batman type), so I wasn’t sure what to expect going into this book, or whether or not I would enjoy it very much, but it came highly recommended by one of my best friends, and it’s Leigh Bardugo, which meant, if nothing else, I knew I’d like the writing in it.
That said, the entire second half or so of this book was so much fun, and the ending won me over to Diana so much that now I feel like I urgently need a sequel to her story.
xDRead my full review of Wonder Woman: Warbringer!Holy crap on a cracker, this book was freaking amazing!
I'm talking about Leigh freaking Bardugo here.
As a whole, Wonder Woman: Warbringer is a lesson in feminism, sisterhood, love, loss, and holy hell—it's a damn masterpiece.I will never be skilled enough to find the adequate words to describe what Bardugo's writing does to my soul, though I will keep endeavoring to try.
You continue to raise the bar higher and higher, and it's truly special.Honestly, there is no other author that can move me the way Leigh does.
Definitely as soon as you are able—but especially if you are a Wonder Woman fan—you must get your hands on this outstanding book!
“Sisters in battle, I am shield and blade to you. As I breathe, your enemies will know no sanctuary. While I live, your cause is mine.”  Maaaan, Leigh Bardugo just became my queen and I'll read anything she writes from now on. I absolutely adore her writing style, she surely knows how to write a gripping story about friendship and with perfect amount of jokes and action. *****21/08/2017MY COPY JUST ARRIVED!I AM SCREAMING!
DNF @ 280 REVIEW TO COME TOMORROW. THE REVIEW IS POSTED    She would not fail. And she would not let fear choose her path.  me : if this is a dream, please wake me up from the this nightmare that I did not finish the book I anticipated in 2017.me : *closes my eyes and pinches my arm*me : *opens my eyes*me : well, fuck. this isn't a dream.*sighs* I am so disappointed right now. The book that I anticipated and had high expecations failed me. I am not a fan of superheroes, ( I'm more of a person wh
Before I tell you more about why I did not finish this book, I would like to tell you all that maybe it's just me ?
or maybe the book is boring but this kind of thing also happened to me with Six of Crows, I finished that book but that book was just fine to me, like nothing was spectaculer or something.
In shock that I did not finish the book I anticipated for freaking months.
Do not let my review stop you because maybe you will like it, who knows, right?
HERE FOR THIS, BARDUGO!
It's the people who never learn the word impossible who make history, because they're the ones who keep trying.I can't even with how much I loved this book.
These women are strong and it makes me wonder...WHY THE HECK IS THIS BOOK NOT SELLING ALL THE COPIES?
I loved every single second in the reading of this book and I wish I still had my Wonder Woman Under-Roos (and that they fit)...because I would have those suckers on and I would be beating off the bad-guys!ALL THE STARS!Booksource: I received a copy of the book from the publisher in exchange for review.
He agreed to help them get to Greece if only Alia attends their fundraiser galaTheir parents had a multi-million dollar foundation before they died, now Jason is kind of in charge.They were attacked by some assassins that are aware of what a warbringer can do, they want to kill Alia to end the war but Diana saved the day that scene was so cool!.
that plot twist was the biggest power move ever, to say the absolute least- - - 07/24/2017august 26th: depressionaugust 27th: depressionaugust 28th: depressionaugust 29th: ‘Alive - Sia (10 hour version)’august 30th: depressionanyway will the fucking release date please come here so i can stop being emo
Before I start this review, I think you might want to know 2 things:1) I’ve only ever read Shadow and Bone by Leigh Bardugo.
I’ll start with the characters because they were my main problem.It’s always easier to get attached to a book when you connect with the character, and I liked Diana quite a lot.
In some books, even when you don’t care much about the characters, the plot itself is sometimes gripping enough that you can’t stop reading.
You might end up liking this book better than I did, so please don’t let my review keep you from reading it.
I probably look like a snotty frog right now and I’m honestly okay with it.THIS BOOK IS OUT OF THE WORLD.Here’s the run through:•Diana is the strongest badass supermodel.
It’s somehow an unspoken rule between the authors: SOMEONE MUST DIE BEFORE YOU END YOUR BOOK.However, never fear, my reader, you fellow fangirl still wholly loved and worshipped the ending because dude...who cannot not like the ending when they see Jason sobbing on the ground?
I’m sending out a wish to you Bardugo, for my next birthday about 11 months away from now: I’d like you to grant me a second book of Warbringer.
A hymn to feminism, girls supporting girls, friendship and bravery!Thank you Sankta Leigh Bardugo, for giving us such a precious sunbeam called Diana.*Well, now more than ever these kind of books are important, for what they stand, for their values. Go Leigh!
SHE'S SO FUCKING PRETTYOH MY GAAAWDMADRELOOK AT HER SHE'S SO CUTEI'M HERE FOR THIShonestly, i'm glad gal was chosen to film wonder woman because she fits the role perfectly to be honest----------------THE TRAILER FOR THE MOVIE HAS ME EVEN MORE HYPED IM SO EXCITED FOR THIS.-----------------5/21/16IM SO LATE BUT OH LOOK A NEW BOOK BY LEIGH BARDUGO AND IT'S A RETELLING LOOK AT THAT!
Anyways, Wonder Woman has always been a fav of mine and adding Catwoman after watching the movies and reading comics about her.
She doesn’t want to live if she can’t undo being a Warbringer (which is the journey throughout the book is finding out if they can “cure” her in a sense).Jason: Jason is Alia’s brother.
He buts heads a lot with Diana and he isn’t sure if he can trust her (because he obviously doesn’t know that she is, like, the most amazing woman ever), but he also can see that she is adamant on protecting his sister.Nim: I absolutely loved this girl.
She’s also into women, but that doesn’t even become a big deal in the book which I absolutely loved.
All the stars in the world to this super fierce, action-packed and kickass masterpiece of a book.
Theo is my precious cinnamon roll that needs to be protected at all costs!
And the female friendships in this book were so beautiful, I'm tearing up <333 AND all the characters are POC (except Diana) and it's just fabulous!!!
I need to reread this book ASAP.Full review is now up on my blog: https://toomuchofabooknerd.wordpress....
(spoiler: I AM LOSING MY SHIT)oh, and thank you to Penguin Random House UK for sending me an early copy of this book I OWE YOU FOREVER AND EVER <333
After seeing the new trailer today, my hope is so high but I know Leigh won't let me down.Diana is a strong and independent female character.I don't even have words for this.EPIC. ABSOLUTELY EPIC.
