https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34368113-end-game
This story is a long way down from, "The Innocent." I don't know who really wrote this under Baldacci's name, but I can hardly believe he did. Murders, pointless romance, senseless deaths equal the worst story penned under Baldacci's name. 0 of 10 stars!
Learning of a troubled childhood, Robie and Reel discover new respect for the man who has been leading them on numerous missions.
After a significant run-in with the leader of the Neo-Nazis, Robie and Reel are barely alive, but must pick up the pieces and forge onwards, trying to locate a handful of prisoners who have gone missing.
I have often wondered if he intends to create some series that meshes some of his most beloved characters together, though I am sure trying to juggle that many plots could prove too much of a pain.
A page turner it is!Will Robie is a secret agent and deadliest assassin of United States of America.
Together with his partner, Jessica Reel, he solves unimaginable crimes.
As they inch forward in their career, their projects get tougher.Their boss, Blue Moon is missing since a few days and they are given the assignment to find him, hopefully - alive.
Layer by Layer, the story starts to unfold.
It started out a bit slow, catching up the speed in the middle and kept me engaged.
If anyone is planning to read David Baldacci, they can start from this series.
Grab a Will Robie novel, it won't disappoint you.
I'm usually a fan of the Will Robie series but this was not one of his best books. The relationship between Robie and Reel was weird and the criminal characters were just plain stupid, I felt like I could feel my IQ dropping while reading this book, definitely not one I would recommend.
Audiobook - 11:54 hours - 2 out of 5 stars"End Game" - Will Robie #5, by David Baldacci, is not up to the standard of the earlier Will Robie books, suffering from a wandering plot and less than credible story line. Will's unaided and quick 'disposal' of 17 bad guys in just a few minutes at the beginning of the book (not a spoiler) was so unbelievable that it was surely facetious. The cliché-ridden dialogue is not improved by the narration, particularly that of Orlagh Cassidy reading (mainly) the role of super-assassin Jessica Reel. A disappointing listening experience overall.
No doubt about it: Government-sanctioned assassins Will Robie and Jessica Reel have never fail to get the job done, even when it comes at great personal cost and a smattering of collateral damage.
They've healed as much as humanly possible, but Jessica's mind is still reeling (another pun intended) - leaving in limbo the "connection" they formed during a previous joint venture.
Throw in a few abandoned government bunkers and silos and it closes in on a sure bet.But there's a bit of a problem, as I see it, is in the execution - and I mean that as a double entendre.
I have read several David Baldacci books, but this is the first I've read in his Will Robie series.
And, after finishing this one so do I, of course, want to read the previous four books.
However, Reel seems to have had a change of heart after the events in the last book and Robie is both hurt and confused about it.
I'm thrilled to know that I have the previous four books to read (as soon as I get them).
This book is without any problem easy to get into even if you haven't read a single book in this series before, or a Baldacci book.
Not bad at all but after the amazing installment of The Guilty I found parts of this book dull. I did still enjoy it and getting to read about Blue Man’s life and past. Very interested in the future of Will & Jessica now. Feel like I’m rooting for them more than I should 🤣My quick and simple overall: great plot and a good installment in the series. Looking forward for more Will Robie books!
Nothing major that prevented me from enjoying this book but still something missing.The story opens with Will on a mission in London to save the world from terrorists and then switches to his occasional partner Jessica Reel on a separate mission in Iraq.
Roger Walton grew up in Grand and returns annually for a vacation but the residents no little about his work.Our heroes have several clashes with the Neo-Nazi's, always showing their superior skill and intelligence.
Until Will and Jess came into town to find Blueman no one in Grand had any idea what was going on.I have enjoyed many of David Baldacci's books and I liked this book too.
A government assassin is in a plot not complex but challenging for Robie the hero of the novel.
This is my first read from a Baldacci, so I will only go by the character of Robie himself very conflicted and shallow without being complex.
Still in his bag of tricks, one wonders if Government Assassin is the new Government Agent.
Being shallow would have been good had Robie not been too vocal, like a Rambo with academian sound bites.
Still for the writer urge to be expressive of the character of Robie remains as intricate as can be for an End Game.
I hope we don't get stupid relationship drama in the form of the sheriff winding up pregnant with Will's child in the next books, because I do not pick up these action/thriller/suspense novels to get angsty relationship shit in the process!
With all that said there was a little hope for a future for these two in the ending scene.
David Baldacci can settle these two together without losing reader interest if he makes most of the conflict arise from the plot, with maybe a little bit of relationship settling in to spice things up.
The fifth book in the Will Robie Series by David Baldacci proved to be the weakest so far, and that's really quite a shame given the previous books.
Much like the previous two books in the series, the foundation of this story is based on a main character and their previous life before working for the U.S. government, in this case the backstory of Blue Man.The biggest problem with End Game is the shallow and unsophisticated plot.
While Baldacci often bases his novels on contemporary political problems around the world, how he tackles this subject matter is quite disturbing.
Will Robie and Jessica Reel have both returned from very challenging assignments when they are sent to a small Colorado town to see why their most trusted mentor, Blue Man, has disappeared.
They find themselves not knowing whom to trust, with no real clues; they start blundering around, making friends and enemies along the way, and not dealing with their feelings for each other.
The book is actually pretty slow in the middle, which is uncharacteristic for Baldacci.
On the other hand, what was going on the little town and who was involved was a surprise for me, and the ending was pretty satisfying.
I know If I read David Baldacci, it going to be good !So no let downs here, as Will Robie and Jessica Reel are two of my favourite characters from one of my favourite authors.
Such true comments from some Baldacci fans and reviews.Will Robie, highly trained assassin and the US government’s most indispensable asset, is called to London.An imminent terrorist attack threatens the Underground and with the US next in line, Robie is the perfect choice to stop it before it begins.He knows he has one chance to succeed.
Yes yes yes. will robie again. can't wait
The weakest in the series so far. Very rushed but at least Will finally got laid again.
These 2 characters have become clichés of themselves. It is really sad to read the decline. The story line wasn't bad, but the canned responses, and the way the Real has turned into a predictable "bad-ass woman trying to prove herself in a man's world" made this book a bore.It's like a bad 80's cop movie...after shooting a bad guy: "I guess he'll get all the sleep he needs now", or some such dumb thing. I love Baldacci but this one sucked.
I've been a fan of his since Camel Club but his Will Robie/Jessica Reel stuff is terrible compared to his earlier books.
I slogged my way through to the end of this book but I won't get another Robie/Reel.
It's almost impossible to believe this book was authored by the same man who wrote Absolute Power.
Maybe Baldacci is going the Clive Cussler/James Patterson route.
I almost never do, preferring to remain silent rather than dinging another person's work, but when an author who I know has talent and ability puts out something this bad I felt compelled to speak up.
Formulaic, but lacking adequate character development, especially disappointing with an earlier likable character Will Robie. Moreover, it is way too obvious that Baldacci is another liberal/leftist/Democrat author who believes that any American, who doesn’t trust government, must be a racist skinhead end-of-days loon clutching guns & bibles while looking to overthrow the representative republic. It would be far more interesting to write a realistic novel, in which an illegal immigrant falls in with ISIS and shoots at random targets on a city street in America as his jihad, or any average Chicago weekend of gang violence.
My 1st Will Robie novel and its what I'd expected. US assasin/special agent gets caught up in a local crime issue with another agent Reel. Good action, solid plotting if not over the top in most areas but cliched characters. This is what a popcorn action thriller novel should be like but I didn't enjoy it as much as I thought I would. I classify this as an airport quick thrill read, one you can pick up anywhere in story sequence in the aiport and its still solid fun.
Terrible. Too much money for eBook that’s extremely repetitive, way too much info on Silo/underground bunkers and there’s very little difference between this and a previous Robb Will book. By 56% of story I just wanted it to end and started Skipping pages. Recommend this author take a look at John Grisham’s latest I couldn’t put it down. Really hope this author’s next book is a totally different storyline as this is the last book I’m buying of this series
End GameAs always a good book in a great series. It started out a bit slow for me but as I got into it I started enjoying it more. I wasn't sure how it was going to end and that's the best part. David Baldacci is never a disappointment, his writing is superb.
Not quite 2 Stars but I did finish it. Simply doesn't measure up to the 4 previous Robie novels. Boring and pointless first 2/3rds. Last part wasn't boring but still pointless. My first disappointing Baldacci. Will have to exercise care in buying future books.
I have loved the Will Robie series starting with The Innocent, but each book following has gotten a little worse.
It's hard to believe that the same person who brilliantly wrote The Innocent actually wrote End Game.
So, as much as I have enjoyed Will Robie, I will not be reading another one unless I know for sure that Baldacci actually wrote it, which means, if there is not a disclaimer saying he wrote it all, by himself, it won't be on my reading list.The story had a great premise, and got worse as it went on.
With the onslaught over, another job aced by Robie, the assassin is approached by a woman claiming to work for Blue Man, the code name for Robie’s boss, Roger Walton.
As Robie and Reel comb through Blue Man’s hometown, they encounter a number of locals who are less than thrilled about two government operatives investigating on their turf.
And the genre, as a whole, is much better off when Will Robie is lining bookstore shelves.Hitting on all cylinders from beginning to end, David Baldacci brings back his best character with a bang.
End Game is #5 in the Will Robie series by David Baldacci.
“Blue Man is missing.
Will and Jessica are tasked with finding him and bringing him back safe.” The last thirty pages are very good.
Spends time on the tension between Robie and Reel.
Yawn 😴 Robie and Reel are starting to sound a lot like King and Maxwell.
Baldacci is one of my favorite authors.
His books 📖 normally have great pace - not this one.
If you are a DB fan, you will want to read this.
Otherwise, read an earlier book like Camel Club.
Things got a little ridiculous in David Baldacci's new novel, "End Game."The story takes place in rural Colorado, and the cast of characters includes skinheads, Branch Davidian types and other folks of a "sovereign nation" mind bent.Guns are blazing. Our bad guys are killing people willy nilly. Why then are we supposed to believe that "our" people aren't going to join the ranks of the dearly departed?Baldacci knows how to spin a yarn, so he kept my interest. Believable? Not so much.
Again, David Baldacci weaves an intriguing tale. Blue Man has gone missing and Reel and Robie must go find him. Anything else will give it away. Baldacci always leads the reader to a fulfilling conclusion.If you are a fan of his or of the series, it is worth the read.
It holds many secrets including a stagnant economy, understaffed local and state police, multiple militant fringe groups, and an even stronger threat that will hinder their very ability to escape, yet alone find Blue Man. Reading a Baldacci book is like an exciting roller coaster ride.
She is holding something back from him and it adds to the tension of their search for the Blue Man. In my opinion, one of Baldacci’s best strengths as a writer is his ability to wrap a plot together in such a strong manner where the mystery, suspense, and clues are revealed one at a time like peeling away the layers of an onion.
I've enjoyed this series and it has been mostly 4 stars.
This one felt a little "round and round" at times in their search for the truth, but there were plenty of other things pulling me this way and that .....definitely entertaining.
So all in all, 4 stars.This author is my most read author of all time.
Some of his novels I have liked more than others, but I pretty much know what I'm going to get when I sit down with one of his books.
Maybe that is not a good thing, but for me, I like that.
