https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40604754-heir-to-the-empire
MAJOR SPOILERS.This book in a nutshell - Leia: I'm pregnant.Luke: Yay!Chewie: *excitedly* Uuuuuurnur aaaarh urnur arhar.Everyone: …Han?Han: I jest, of course. Han was his usual awesome self. Heir to the Empire is considered the best Star Wars book ever written. It is part of the Star Wars expanded universe (known affectionately by fans as EU) and is considered to be the 'true' sequel to the movies. *gets dirty looks from Disney*Sorry, I'm just repeating what I heard.  Apparently there's a shitlo
MAJOR SPOILERS.This book in a nutshell - Leia: I'm pregnant.Luke: Yay!Chewie: *excitedly* Uuuuuurnur aaaarh urnur arhar.Everyone: …Han?Han:
You catch my drift.I haven't read the books but thanks to my wonderful group of nerdy friends I know the basic plot.SPOILERS!Han and Leia got married and had Jedi twins - a son named Jacen and a daughter named Jaina.
So… Jacen Solo turns to the dark side, becomes Darth Caedus, and kills a bunch of people, including Luke's wife.
(we know how that turned out) Luke is rebuilding the Jedi Order.
I can see why Luke is so taken with her.But we know how that turned out…
A long time  20 years ago, in a galaxy publishing house  far, far away  looking to suck the monetary marrow out of a popular franchise and develop the next big income stream............……………………………………..  Episode IV  Expanded Universe Novel I A NEW HOPE CASH COW It is a period of civil war declining profits and brand recognition. A revitalized Star Trek franchise Rebel spaceships, striking from  ahidden base rival studio Paramount, have won their first victory against the evil Galactic  LucasFilm
In response to this threatening franchise battle, smart, profit-minded publishing toadies Rebel spies managed to steal Paramount’s thunder by approaching popular non-hack writer Timothy Zahn with secret plans to develop theLucasFilm Empire's ultimate weapon, the DEATH STAR Star Wars Expanded Universe, an armored space station, a marketing masterstroke with enough built in profit potential power to destroy an entire planet any franchise that opposed it…except maybe Marvel Comics.Pursued by the Empire's sinister agents of Star Trek publisher Simon & Shuster, 
Unforgettable characters born and even a whole world too!  STRONG IN CHARACTER  When you understand a species' art, you understand that species. One of the strongest issues on this book are the creation of characters since it’s where Mara Jade was first introduced and only for that, it’s already an epic moment in the Star Wars Expanded Universe, but also you have the introduction of other characters such as Talon Karrde, Gilad Pellaeon, Borsk Fey’lya, Joruus C’Baoth, Winter Celchu, and obviousl
And if Luke is able to perceive in the Force the Leia's twins, how Anakin didn't?!), it’s expected that the Jedi legacy will grow again.This is the first book in a trilogy, and while there is a lot of travel and the introduction of various cool new characters, the action is quite moderated and the climax on this first book is hardly enough shocking to give it a higher rating, but definitely this is a relevant book in Star Wars universe which deserves to be read by fans.
Brick by brick, he's managed to build a whole new setting succeeding that of the original Star Wars movies, and while characters like Luke, Han and Leia remain as protagonists, much of the weight is being put upon a brand new bunch of people.
This book is most definitely a legend of the Star Wars universe.
But canon or no, the stories remain, and they're waiting for you to read them.If you enjoyed the Star Wars movies and want to explore what else this amazing universe has to offer, Heir to the Empire is the book to read.
“My word, Thrawn, do you mean … Skywalker??”“Elementary, my dear Captain.”Zahn’s Grand Admiral Thrawn channels Sherlock Holmes and steals the show in a 1991 Star Wars expanded universe novel set five years after the end of the canonical film Episode VI Return of the Jedi.The Ewoks have finished dancing and singing, the fireworks over Coruscant have long since faded and the Darths Sidious and Vader are pushing up daisies.
Zahn, a recognizable talent in the literary world of the Star Wars expanded universe, does a great job in setting the stage for new adventures for established protagonists and introducing new characters and a new storyline.
"But you must never relax your guard. The Emperor is gone, but the dark side is still powerful. Never forget that."  As we all know, Episode VII came out a few weeks ago. I watched it a few days after the premiere and was amazed. I watched it for the second time a week ago, and was still amazed. I've been a Star Wars fan ever since I was a child, but my love for the series slowly degraded because no new movies came out. I'm back to loving the series now all thanks to the release of episode 7.
I read this novel because all of my friends here who read this recommended this as a starting point if I wanted to start reading Star Wars (Non-canon).
After re-watching the original trilogy for the nth time, I wanted more stories about these characters, and episode 7 only gave the viewers a bit of them.
I feel that Thrawn will further develop in the next novels, and be a real threat to Luke and his friends.I don't really need to talk about the characters because if you liked them from Episodes 1-6, then you're going to like them even better here.
What remains of the Empire is driven farther to the remote parts of the space, the territory of the new Republic is expanding and war is replaced by diplomacy.
The latter seems to be everybody's favorite, but I strongly suspect where her development goes and I do not like it: too cliche.The plot of the first book actually reminded me of the first movie of the original trilogy: it was entertaining with enough intrigues and space battles to more than make up for its shortcomings.
What did not work: the author created great new characters, but most of the people from the movies were bland.
From the first paragraph of Heir To The Empire:“It's five years after Return of the Jedi: the Rebel Alliance has destroyed the Death Star, defeated Darth Vader and the Emperor, and driven the remnants of the old Imperial Starfleet to a distant corner of the galaxy.
As Harrison Ford says “Who gives a shit?”‡ Hammill himself is very cool and I am looking forward to his reprisal of Luke in the next SW movie.• Obi-wan is dead but pops up for a quick natter anyway.• The 10 Best Chewbacca Quotes • How Timothy Zahn’s Heir to the Empire Turned Star Wars into Science Fiction • The evil Jedi, Joruus C'baoth was originally conceived as an evil clone of Obi Wan, but Lucas nixed the idea.
(Most readers aren't in that number --which is why spin-off books are so popular!) Adapting, or building on, a filmed dramatic work is not a canned, easy job that takes no literary creativity or talent; rather, it's a very demanding enterprise that requires the writer to deeply understand (and creatively interpret) the original and convey it's essence in a wholly different medium, and create a vast amount of consistent new content that the different medium demands.
But the best of them are as much works of literary art as any other novel or story.The Thrawn trilogy definitely falls into the latter category.
I certainly gave my parents ZERO trouble, but I feel like that's a thing that happens when parents luck into having extremely geeky children who would rather stay home on a Saturday night and, for example, re-watch Star Wars for the millionth time than go to a party.
It reads like a sequel to the original movies.
Set five years after the happenings in Return of the Jedi this followed well loved Star Wars characters like Luke, Han, and Leia as they and the rest of the Rebel Alliance fought against the remains of the Imperial Empire.
Pellaeon, Mara Jade, Talon Karrde, and in particular Grand Admiral Thrawn were all fantastic characters who often proved more interesting than the original characters.
If I had to dig for failings in Zahn's version of the Star Wars universe they would be the lack of humor and the slightly boring space battles.
Five years after Return of the Jedi, the leaders of the rebellion have formed the New Republic and are trying to establish it as well as they possibly can.
A Grand Admiral named Thrawn has become the leader of The Empire and he intends to crush the Rebellion for good.Heir to the Empire wasn't very interesting.
The book was really slow and rather than doing any real character development it simply leaned on the work the movies did.
With the vibrant characters of Star Wars I would think that would have been fine, but it really wasn't.
Simple: Rogue One made me complete trash for the Star Wars universe.Was it the strong main character I could relate to?
It was far from a perfect movie (but that’s a conversation for another time) and I still absolutely loved it.
All in all, it stayed very true to the feel Star Wars.(Warning, general nerding below)Pros:Mara Jade.I absolutely love her character and am not sure I can forgive Disney for writing her out of the films.
For instance, I didn’t realize until recently that every Star Wars film to date (including Rogue One!) contains some variation of the line,  "I have a bad feeling about this." And this did too!
I'm going to try my best to explain this unfortunate three star rating.What I LikedObviously the characters.
I actually liked Mara's parts in the book over most of the others.
I think I could read an entire book just about those two.What I DislikedI felt like everything was a bit flat.
I've never read fan fiction before (I'm assuming that's what this is called) and this may be a normal thing.
I'm going to start one of the series that has all new characters so that I don't have any expectations.
I am not going to try to objectively review this as I am a seventies kid so star wars is an immense part of my coming into adulthood.Zahn has given fans a worthy successor to Vader as the big bad in thrawn.if I was to nitpick Mars Jades hatred of Skywalker free a little annoying.overall a great continuation of the mythology of the star wars universe I would give 3.5 stars rounded up.
The movies were such high points for the characters; no wonder they keep thinking of them as they go throughout this novel, as they experience similar (but not the same) events.Zahn has also managed to absolutely nail Han, Luke, and Leia, what I like to teasingly call the Trinity of Star Wars Expanded Universe.
Therefore, since I happen to adore the Empire for some strange reason, I find they are probably the most competent Imperials in Star Wars Expanded Universe.As for Zahn's neutral characters, Mara Jade and Talon Karrde, I was equally impressed.
Heir to the Empire ThreadThrawn...that is all.
Executive Summary: Mostly lived up to the hype for me. Certainly more enjoyable than the prequels that Lucas put out, but that's not hard.Audio book: Do this in audio. Not only is Marc Thompson a great narrator who does a great job with almost all the voices, there is music and sound effects too that makes this more like a radio play than just an audiobook.There was no way I was going to read this after seeing Marc Thompson did this series, and I was not disappointed. Full Review There is a lot
There is a lot of hype from the Star Wars geeks, that if you're going to read EU (now Legend) books, these are the ones to read.
My only real gripe with it is that sometimes there seemed to be a lot of "coincidences" like characters showing up at the same place at the same time, or some of Admiral Thrawn's insights.Being the first book in a trilogy I didn't expect a lot of resolution, but I thought it stopped in a good place.
Dare I admit that I’ve never seen the Star Wars movies?
And despite that gap in my experience, I still know enough of the plot lines and character details to be able to appreciate this book.Thrawn is a great foe—alien, cool under fire, an intellect to be reckoned with, and a planning mastermind.
Like the movies, things are not very nuanced, there are definite good guys & bad guys.
The vocabulary and the sentence structure are uncomplicated and the plot is straight forward.I can see the appeal to those devoted to the franchise.Book number 280 in my Science Fiction and Fantasy Reading Project.
Believe the hype!I have always been resistant when it comes to reading novels based on shows/movies.
First of all, they have sound effects and music, which I normally don't like in an audiobook but, hey, we are talking Star Wars here.
He does all of the character voices perfectly (except Leia, who sounds like a transsexual version of Luke).
Even characters who are new to the Star Wars universe are given unique and interesting voices, to the point that, at times, I forgot that only one person was reading this.
You can really tell that he had a lot of fun narrating this novel.
I now understand the hype.Not only why this trilogy is touted as the definitive Star Wars companion, but why it's an example for all tie-in novels.
I'm not the most experienced guy in the world when it comes to this sort of fiction, but I've read enough to recognize when it works and when it doesn't.Heir to the Empire works so, so well.This is the Star Wars novel I have been waiting for.
I don't think it'd be the same without him.Now to continue my search for other Star Wars novels that feel the same.
I LOVE THESE AUDIOS. What fun they are. The fact that the narrator can do the iconic voices is such a bonus. This book, I think, has got to be one of my favorites so far but then I always think that after reading one and end up liking it. The personalities of these well known and well loved characters rang true. So 4 stars.
It's been so, so long since I've read these Star Wars tie-in novels.
A friend of mine had been highly recommending the audiobook production of these novels and hence, gave me the impetus to reread them in the said medium.
With the ability to make use of the library of sound effects from the movies, the audiobook almost sounds like a Graphic Audio production.
I especially love the scenes with Artoo, who's probably the Star Wars universe's most effectual and adorable astromech droid.
Grand Admiral Thrawn, a new character to the universe, is remarkably admirable as the main antagonist.
Definitely recommended for fans who want more of the Star Wars universe.
If it wasn't for Grand Admiral Thrawn, I might not have even finished this book. I just found it all so uninteresting. Not sure if I will finish this trilogy or not. Side note: the audio version of this is fantastic. It plays sound effects and Star Wars music and narrator does really great voices.
He portrays the curious blend of old and new technologies that Star Wars stories have always incorporated; for example, the Wookiee villages are held up by nothing but tree branches and vines, but they also have emergency repulsorlifts and other high technology.Heir to the Empire is set five years after the Battle of Endor at the end of Return of the Jedi.
...nah. I have no trouble believing that this book was the shit in the 90's, because people just didn't know any better. But reading it today, it feels more like the prequels than the original trilogy — boring and poorly characterised. I am more than happy with the new Disney movies (The Last Jedi was fucking rad and I don't care if you disagree, internet!) instead of the Thrawn trilogy.
I was thinking again about Zahn's trilogy of books after reading that Disney and Lucasfilm have set an "official" canon for the Star Wars universe. (A truly absurd idea that some fictional stories are 'official' and some fictional stories are illegitimate). For me, these will always be the best three Star Wars books. It doesn't matter if they are 'canon' or not. If you liked the original trilogy of movies and haven't read these books, do yourself a favor and read them right now.
Working within established genre, ensemble, history and--to some extent--outcome, Timothy Zahn creates a fresh new story with a cast known and loved by his readers.Old Star Wars movie cliches sprinkle the tale, but the fans would howl if they weren't.
What makes Heir to the Empire worth reading is Zahn's ability to grow the characters and provide a satisfying new experience for the reader.
In a way, they were writing fan fiction based on their own earlier works.Published in 1992, Heir preceded Lucas' later Star War movies and appears free of the commercial, if not artist, considerations which may have constrained their story lines.
This gets 4 stars just for being Star Wars. Too much talk, not enough Lightsaber.

