https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/767719.Best_Ghost_Stories_of_Algernon_Blackwood
This is an excellent collection of tales, the best of which defy the limiting label of "ghost story." Blackwood is an excellent, old-fashioned stylist, and although his leisurely development may frustrate a few contemporary readers, I advise them to keep their patience, for the slow build-up leads to cumulative horror.The first five stories--more than half the book--are major works, essential reading for any lover of the Weird Tale.
The other three ("The Willows," The Wendigo,' "The Glamour of the Snow") reveal a malevolence close to the heart of Nature herself.
"The Willows" and "The Wendigo" are particularly fine, and should be read by everyone who admires good short fiction.
It's an interesting collection containing the most famous horror stories by Algernon Blackwood.
Blackwood masterfully builds an strange atmosphere, unfolding sinister aura gradually creates a mood of growing horror.The stories can be divided into two categories.
Oh, the old dismal house, abandoned somewhere in the suburbs, an obscure alley with cats lurking in the darkness, some rustling, whispering, shadows on the walls, strange odors.
States we experience sometimes waking up in the middle of the night, uncertain whether this feeling is made by dream or we actually heard something.The second category is inseparably connected with nature.
But Nature.
But Nature.
Terrific collection of Blackwood's best-known tales, including "The Willows" and "The Wendigo." Calling these thirteen tales "ghost stories" may be something of a misnomer, as Blackwood is hard to classify -- perhaps "supernatural tale" would be more appropriate.
In his most effective tales, he slowly draws the reader into a downward spiral of dread and terror, creating a palpable sense of a malevolent unknowable or unspeakable something.
This ability to arouse and sustain terror is what is truly remarkable about Blackwood's writing.
I love these affordable Dover editions of ghost, detective, and supernatural stories and have many of them.
However, even where they strike a modern reader as a bit slow or predictable, or lacking an impactful ending, they nevertheless are usually good at evoking an atmosphere of creepy awareness of the supernatural.Not the final story in the book, but the one I most enjoyed was the first Blackwood story I ever read, 'The Wendigo'.
This was my first exposure to Blackwood's writing, and it won't be my last.
Blackwood can take the ghost story out of the haunted house (although he does those too) and put them right in the middle of the forest and make them so very unsettling.As with any collection of this sort, some stories are better than others, but there was really nothing that I disliked.
The final story in the volume, Max Hensig, was probably my least favorite, but even it had its own appeal.If you are a fan of classical ghost stories, then be sure to pick this volume up.
Even writers who aren’t known particularly for horror have written books which have made my favorite lists in horror: Toni Morrison (“Beloved” is, at its heart, a creepy ghost story.), George Orwell (There is nothing more horrifying than a good dystopic future, and “1984” is one of the best and most horrifying.), and Roberto Bolano (I was left with an unsettling “WTF?” feeling after reading “2666”, and while I’m not sure what happened in it, it was undoubtedly a horror novel, albeit an incredibly poetic one.) I’ve read a lot of horror, and I’ve seen a lot of horror movies in my 45 years, so I feel that I have a pretty good grasp of the genre.
Vaiduokliai ir priešiška, šiurpi gamta!13 trumpų siaubo istorijų, kurias gal vertinčiau geriau, jei nelyginčiau su Lovecraftu ir Poe. Faina, kad istorijų aplinkybės labai skirtingos - vienur žmonės stovyklauja gamtoje ir susiduria su tuo, su kuo susidurti nederėtų, kitur studentas išsinuomoja įtartinai pigų kambarį, dar kitur žurnalistas eina daryti interviu su pavojingu žudiku.
Net istorijose, kur moterų visai nėra, buvo justi kažkokia lyčių dichotomija: tikri vyrai su palapine gamtoje daro vyriškus dalykus etc.
Gal aš prisigalvoju, bet vėl - Lovecrafto ar Poe istorijose visai (ar beveik) nėra moterų, bet tai pastebėjau tik dabar, kai pradėjau apie tai galvoti.
Best Ghost Stories of Algernon Blackwood, a selection of some of his most famous tales, was originally published in 1973, though the stories themselves first appeared in the early 1900s.
A famous example of this type of story, “The Willows”, concerns two hearty outdoorsman who, during a storm, are forced to encamp on a small island where they slowly become aware of an ancient, malign presence there.
Yet Blackwood was capable of writing good traditional ghost stories.
Best Ghost Stories of Algernon Blackwood should be a required text for readers interested in the evolution of twentieth century supernatural writing.
I picked up this book because I had read, more than once, that "The Willows" is considered by many to be the best ghost story ever written. I'm not sure that I would agree. A well-written tale that had me feeling a little "edgy" at times, it didn't really sustain itself for me. I realize that many might confuse the "ghost" story with a "horror" story, and they are not necessarily the same (though they can be), but a ghostly presence ought to run a shivver up my spine, and this didn't, though perhaps it came close.
"the willows" is so scary i was reading it aloud to my wife and she made me stop before i finished. then i walked the dog and the dog kept looking over his shoulder and stopping, he was petrified.also, Blackwood has a tremendous vocabulary, it's fun to look up words like "rosacrutian."
An excellent introduction to Blackwood for those who – like me – either haven’t read this notable British writer much, or possibly haven’t read him at all. Most of the stories here (other than “Max Hensig,” a crime tale with psychic overtones) were written before 1916, and combine traditional slow-burn horror with some of the finest atmospherics around.  Two of the longer tales – “The Willows” and “The Wendigo” – are weird fiction classics, and worth the very reasonable price of this collection
Most of the stories here (other than “Max Hensig,” a crime tale with psychic overtones) were written before 1916, and combine traditional slow-burn horror with some of the finest atmospherics around.
Two of the longer tales – “The Willows” and “The Wendigo” – are weird fiction classics, and worth the very reasonable price of this collection all by themselves.
The rest ring a wide variety of changes on the traditional ghost story.
Some are distinctly horrific (I found “Secret Worship,” “The Listener,” and “The Empty House” particularly disturbing), while others focus on the pure experience of being haunted	Blackwood’s style is thoroughly English -- literary & “chewy.” His endings might be a little quiet for modern tastes, but he delivers some serious chills along the way.
Calling Blackwood's tales ghost stories, it has been written, is like calling Melville's Moby Dick a fish story. One of my favorite shot stories anthologies to pick up between novels, the imaginative journey these stories take you on is amazing. "The Willows," "The Glamour of the Snow," and "The Windigo" are standouts, but all of these 13 stories are incredible!
An excellent collection of some of Blackwood's best short stories, and a fine companion piece to Penguin Classic's Ancient Sorceries (though a couple of the stories overlap). Only a weaker second half prevents me from rating this five stars, but it's a minor quibble, and if you're looking to sample Blackwood for the first time, or acquire a nice if non-comprehensive 'best of' collection, then you can't really go wrong.
Went thru a period where I tried to catch all the old masters of the macabre and found most very tame as compared to Lovecraft and some of his followers. But after more reading it was obvious that where HPL was of one sort, the writers like Blackwood were more subtle and in the end more terrifying and frightening.
The Willows is one of the great masterpiece of horror, and many of the other stories in this collection are well worth reading, although Blackwood relies a bit much on concepts of the occult rather than pure horror. Well worth reading and a required text of the genre.
Some of these tales simply didn't age well, but that is not the case with Blackwood's two classics, "The Willows" and "The Wendigo," both of which have lost none of their fearful, imaginative power.
Creepy. Master of atmosphere. Guy can spook with a phrase.
It's really hard to beat a Blackwood ghost story.
Stunning and completely underrated storyteller. I highly recommend this collection to anyone who's a fan of horror, suspense, and well-written literature.
El año pasado leí con mucho interés varias historias de Blackwood (ptincipalmente las de John Silence) en formato digital, así que decidí adquirir este libro de Dover Publications en inglés para tener fisicamente algunas de ellas y poder leer de paso otros de sus relatos mas famosos.Cuenta con una introducción sobre la vida de Blackwood y otra escrita por el propio autor en el 37 hablando sobre sus relatos.
4.5/5- The Listener (1907) : He leido algunos relatos de este tipo por parte de Blackwood, con un estudiante pobre que acaba en una habitación alquilada en la que ocurren cosas extrañas.
if you search for subtle, poetic use of language bound in suspense and a frisson of fear, set in imaginary places and ideas, yet which are somehow fully believable stories, then blackwood is the man.
his words take me to all the places he conjours up from his life and travels and the haunting intuitions of his mind.
there is an authentic but sublimely heightened realism to the weirdness he writes, that pours over normal earth-bound happenings.
this is not gore or horror nor does it have a philosophical agenda that overwhelms narratives (thinking of lovecraft).
a perfect winter present for the deep thinking, imaginative soulmate in your life.
Gostei bastante do livro, do género de escrita, dos contos escolhidos para esta colectânea. Os Salgueiros foi sem dúvida o meu preferido, mas temos outros bons contos, alguns um pouco cómicos até, onde se mistura a angustia com a bizarrice.https://ideiasdeleitora.blogspot.com/...
I don't think I've ever read anything by Algernon Blackwood before, but I thoroughly enjoyed reading this collection of ghost stories.To start with, he has one of the coolest names ever, especially for a ghost story writer.
I thought at first that it must be a pen name, but it was apparently his real name.This was a collection of assorted ghost stories.
These stories were written over a century ago, but they did not feel dated the way many older works do.
Overall, I really enjoyed this collection of stories.
(you'll find out)THE GLAMOUR OF THE SNOW: a terrific ghost story!
MAX HENSIG: not remotely a ghost story, but an entertaining thriller nonetheless.
A primary character here is ‘psychic doctor’ John Silence, a recurring character of author Blackwood’s that reads like a ghost-busting Sherlock Holmes.
But because this collection doesn’t include the first-ever John Silence story, the ending is very confusing.
John Silence appears in such a fashion that would be surprising and impactful, only if you, the 21st century reader, knew who he was.
These stories were written between 1906 and 1938.The Willows relates the tale of a couple of friends on a boating trip on the Danube, and their encounter with an other-worldly presence in middle of a desolate area of small islands populated with willow trees.Secret Worship is a tale of a man who returns to an old school which he attended as a child.
The small wooded area has other ideas.The Listener relates a man's encounter with a ghostly presence in his rented room.
Also, he has the coolest name ever - I think anyone with a name like Algernon Blackwood is probably born to write spine-tingling tales.I decided to treat my first encounter with Blackwood’s fiction with the respect that I felt it deserved: reading one story by lamplight just before bed every night, and only when I was completely alone.
I’d certainly recommend that everyone with an interest in the genre give Blackwood’s more memorable works a go (and, as his writing has now become part of the public domain in the UK, you can find quite a lot of it available for free on the internet), but I don’t think I would be able to consider his full body of fiction to be as essential as say, M.
I did get through three of the stories in this compilation, and enjoyed the world building and the eery tone Blackwood created, but in every one I was disappointed by the ending.
I think it was a reflection of the time in which it was written, but I don't want my ghost stories to end with pseudo-scientific rationalizations; if I wanted that, I'd read science fiction.
Also, maybe two of the three stories involved actual ghosts, and one of those two only counts if you consider reincarnation as a type of ghost story.So, saying goodbye to Blackwood and continuing my search for another great (spooky, not gross) Gothic horror author, preferably one with a thing for ghosts.
An excellent group of stories of the supernatural. These stories seem more than just "ghost stories" although there are unexplained elements in each of the stories. The first story, "The Willows," manages to create a supernatural atmosphere based on a trip on to an island on a fast flowing river. Other stories such as "The Other Wing," and "Ancient Lights" are shorter and somewhat more intense.
Tenho de admitir: não sou grande fã de terror.Quando me decidi a ler este livro foi na ânsia de uma nova experiência.
Infelizmente só gostei de um conto (e só tinha 9 páginas!) e mesmo nesse dei por mim a bocejar diversas vezes.
Penso que este seja um livro que tenha de ser lido numa certa altura e com um certo estado de espírito.Claro que consigo entender o fascínio que as pessoas têm pelo Algernon Blackwood.
Escreve muito bem, além de por vezes usar umas palavras características.
Tenho pena de não ser fã deste tipo de livro.
Revisiting any number of tales read many years ago.
The Willows, and of course The Wendigo, are the signature stories for Blackwood in these later days, but I was more taken by a few of the shorter entries, notably Secret Worship, Ancient Sorceries, Ancient Lights, and Keeping His Promise.
These are not strictly speaking "ghost stories" so much as tales of psychological terror.
E.F. Bleiler in his introduction makes some comparison to M.R. James, which is in my humble opinion sacrilege, James being the ultimate writer of this sort of tale.
That said, Blackwood looms large in this genre, and I enjoyed revisiting his neighborhood.
