https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25689074-stars-above
I liked this quite a bit! There were a few stories that I felt were just filler & I didn't really care for, but it was fun seeing some familiar faces throughout it. IKO4EVER.
Nearly every story is based on a key event mentioned in one of our 8 main character's backgrounds.The keeper - This is the earliest prequel of the series - we follow Scarlet's Grandmother as she travels to Lunar as a young army piolet and meets a strange doctor.
Glitches - Continuing from the last prequel, we get to see Cinder's story from the moment her hardware is installed to her adopted father contracts the plague.
Plus, Iko makes an appearance - I adore her!The Queen's Army - We finally  get a story from Wolf's perspective!
And they lived happily ever after.Except the girl-who-read-too-much, aka Katerina, since she cried her eyes out, sniffled, hiccupped and then cried some more.  “The first time, he had wondered why she liked books so much, and if it had anything to do with why he liked spaceships. Because they could take you somewhere far, far away.”   But mind that they were happy tears (mostly). The tears you shed when your babies that went through pain and difficulties find love, happiness, joy and friendship.
The tears you shed when your babies that went through pain and difficulties find love, happiness, joy and friendship.
Thank the stars above that Marissa Meyer decided to write these novellas and gave us more precious moments with the characters we came to cherish, before the closure and the aforementioned tears happened.
And Marissa Meyer, with her stardust and beautiful soul, created not one, not two but four great love stories that restored my faith in magic and happily ever afters.Cinder.Kai.Wolf.Scarlet.Cress.
Thorne.Winter.Jacin.Marissa.It has been the privilege and the honor of my life to know and love you.✨ Cinder review✨ Scarlet review✨ Cress review✨ Winter review
They are all little snippets, filling in the blanks behind the main story of The Lunar Chronicles and never really taking us to new places.
Of course, this book is meant for the fans and it reunites us with our favourite characters, but the stories aren't new or surprising.
I never felt like I was discovering anything I hadn't already read about in the main series.Even the last story - Something Old, Something New - which tags an epilogue onto the main story arc of the series, really just tells the tale of what is implied by Winter's ending.
Scarlet loved her grandmother for her quirks, but even she found it a little off-putting to receive a weapon-an actual, deadly weapon-for her eleventh birthday.
It reminded her of a lullaby one of the older girls had taught her years ago, one that Cress still loved to sing to the children at lights-out.Sweet Crescent Moon, up in the sky, Won't you sing your song to Earth as she passes by?Your sweetest silver melody, a rhythm and a rhyme, A lullaby of pleasant dreams as you make your climb.
This story is about Winter and her sweet guard Jacin Clay.
I loved all of the beautiful stories in the book.
This was really fun! I loved going into the past and of course the future for some of my favourite characters. The short story format was really fun, there were some I enjoyed more than others but as an average they were 4/5 stars!
Both have great covers, but maybe not every new YA book needs to have a crown on it?I found Stars Above lacking, to be honest. The one story I was looking forward to (The Little Android) was so lame. I mean, it was nothing like The Little Mermaid at all, and there was no Ursula character to keep it interesting. The rest of the stories don't really flesh things out or add much backstory that couldn't have been inferred while reading the other books. While it's great to have them all in one hard
Both have great covers, but maybe not every new YA book needs to have a crown on it?I found Stars Above lacking, to be honest.
The one story I was looking forward to (The Little Android) was so lame.
The rest of the stories don't really flesh things out or add much backstory that couldn't have been inferred while reading the other books.
While it's great to have them all in one hardcover bindup, it doesn't really serve the rest of the books or add closure to the series.
Overall, great cover but otherwise lacking in material.My reviews for The Lunar Chronicles:•
"The room was full of white crepe paper and tulle, unburned candles and glass lanterns, streamers and small silk bags overflowing with sugared almonds.Iko gasped and trailed a finger over an enormous tulle bow. "Is this all for the wedding?" Ah, the wedding. Admit it, nine and three quarters of you bought Stars Above just to see who's getting hitched. I enjoyed it less than I thought it would, but it has nothing to do with the characters chosen. (view spoiler)[Kudos to Meyer for not picking Kai
The reason she does it is different than the original books led me to believe and I'm glad Meyer let us see a little deeper into Levana and Winter's relationship.The rest aren't as good, I'm afraid.
Three (Glitches, The Queen's Army, and The Little Android) have already been published a long time ago on Meyer's Wattpad and Carswell's Guide to Getting Lucky is provided when you sign up for her newsletter.
I've never shipped them anyway and it leans towards fanservice.The Little Android, even though I'd read it before, affected me just as much as last time.
Perfect epilogue is perfect. I am SO happy Marissa wrote this for her fans!
I don’t think that happens to most androids.”I read this short story right after I finished reading Winter, so this was a reread for me— and it’s still as good as I remembered it to be.Glitches explains how Cinder came to live with Adri and the girls and how she didn't remember anything of her previous life.
He would be strong for him."This story was also a reread for me and I forgot just how much I loved Wolf.It was interesting having a little bit of background on him because I always want to know more about my favorite characters.
I love Thorne and Cress and Scarlet and Wolf and Cinder and Iko and Kai and Winter and Jacin.
AWWWWWW I CAN'T EVEN. CAN THIS SERIES JUST CONTINUE UNTIL THE END OF TIME PLZ?The Keeper - 4 starsGlitches (reread) - 4 starsThe Queen's Army (reread) - 3.5Carswell's Guide to Being Lucky - 4After Sunshine Passes By - 3.5The Princess and the Guard - 4The Little Android (reread) - 5The Mechanic - 4Something Old, Something New -5Around the Year in 52 Books Challenge Notes:- 24. A 'between the numbers' book
This book made me tremendously happy. Especially the last novella - perfection. CAN WE JUST NOT SAY GOODBYE TO THESE CHARACTERS EVER EVER EVER?? *sobs*
I AM CRY SO CRY I LOVE THESE CHARACTERS.I could easily give this a 5 stars based on the last novella alone but the majority were 3 or 4 stars so I gotta give the overall collection a 4 star, BUT THAT LAST NOVELLA OH MY HEART.My favorites of this collection were The Princess and The Guard, The Little Android, and Something Old, Something New (OBVIOUSLY)It was really fun visiting these characters again and also getting some back story on all of them! Overall fantastic read.
Long overdue but finally finished with the help of the audiobook! My favorites were Carswell's Guide To Being Lucky, After Sunshine Passes By, The Mechanic, and of course, Something Old, Something New!BEFORE READING"Stars Above was originally going to include two original stories, and four that had been published elsewhere — but Meyer went above (get it?) and beyond, writing five brand-new stories, including a prequel and epilogue to Winter." WE ARE SO BLESSED
Rereading because a certain someone is making me feel all the feels! 6 Stars!! ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ 《《"And they all lived happily ever after"》》   The Epilogue.★ ★ ★ ★ ★  "... I think she was a little concerned that i never made very many friends. And now look. I have so many friends, i need a cargo ship to keep you all in."   <-- AWWW!It was everything and more!! It was the closure i didn't know i needed! I still find myself randomly hugging this book, or just reading the bits of it when I'm bored. I'
I still find myself randomly hugging this book, or just reading the bits of it when I'm bored.
★ ★ ★ I love little Scarlet, she is so brave!
There were a lot of people in this school who could really use the help."Carswell Thorne, at the age of 12, is a flirt and a con artist.
Little Cress wants Syblil to be proud of her and she would do anything to make her happy.
Back when Jain wasn't so cold, and Winter wasn't crazy, they were just two kids, and they were fucking adorable!
I teared up multiple times while reading this.
I could read the whole book from Kai's POV.
4 Stars (It actually averaged out to like 3.2 but I loved some of these so much I’m rounding up)The Keeper4/5 This story focuses on Michelle Benoit and her role in saving Princess Selene; all things referenced in the original series.
I liked seeing the pack dynamics, and I still think it’s weird Ze’ev’s brother isn’t even mentioned outside of Scarlet.
But it needed to be it’s own story so it had time to develop, instead this felt really overstuffed and I didn’t care about anyone.

Perfectly selected and strung together short story collection that will have any Lunar Chronicles fan emotionally drained upon finishing. Beautifully written, every single story had me euphoric from happiness and sense of adventure and wonder. Stars above, this was epic. (For people starting the series, I highly recommend reading this collection after finishing Winter.)
Let the record show that I would happily read a grocery list if it was for the Cress-and-Thorne household...but, like, everything else about this was reallyreally soso boring.I enjoyed:- the Thorne story- parts of the last storyAnd...that's it.Again this was just so boring.
And I'm really not sure why every Marissa Meyer romance is either utterly swoon-worthy, completely meh, or supersuper creepy.But I'm not a huge fan of it.Bottom line: So concludes my Lunar Chronicles reread!!!
Overall mildly disappointing!!!!Man, we have fun.-------------pre-reviewfinishing off this reread with everyone's favorite part of any series: the mildly unnecessary bind-up of a bunch of pre-existing short stories <3
So. Good. I NEED A SEQUEL TO THE EPILOGUE.My blog | Tumblr | Twitter | Instagram
"But she was already vast and bright and endless."It would be more logical to list the ones which are not  my favourites, but, however cynical and pragmatic I may be, I always like to see the glass half-full. So don't be surprised if my favourite stories list features practically all the stories but three or four.So, favourite stories:•  The Queen's Army   because WOLF.•  Carswell's Guide to Being Lucky   because THORNE.• After Sunshine Passes By  because LITTLE CRESS. I've alway found so much o
I've alway found so much of myself in her character that I can never help sympathizing with her, so much that this story almost brought me to the edge of tears.•
tells about Cinder's early days in Linh's house, and you'd probably want to read it to see the birth of her friendhsip with Iko. Extremely cute.•
Go read these novellas.
Well, let's see what we have: little Scarlet, little Cress, Winter and Jacin, Kai's pov of his first meeting with Cinder, the wedding of th-Oh god.
"...epilogue to Winter, friends gather for the wedding of the century"The wedding.
The wedding of the century!
It's over D: and it's very appropriate that this is my 300th book read on Goodreads!The Keeper- 3/5 starsGlitches- 4/5 starsThe Queen's Army- 3.5/5 starsCarswell's Guide to Being Lucky- 4/5 stars (Thorne <3)After Sunshine Passes By- 3/5 stars (This story felt included just because there had to be a story about Cress?
This is one of the only times where I've actually read every book, novella, and short story of a series.
A novella bind up of short stories from this world?
La cosa es que los personajes, todos, son tan increíbles y tan bien hechos que no podría pedirle nada más a Marissa.
Cinder, Iko, Kai, Thorne, Scarlet, Ze'ev, Cress, Jacin, Winter...tendréis un hueco en mi corazón para siempre.Ayer cuando acabé el libro me quedé mirando la pared llorando de felicidad pero al mismo tiempo tristeza por que la historia se acaba aquí, pero no podría pedir un final mejor que este así que Marissa Meyer, gracias por esto, por llenarme la vida con esta increíble historia y estos personajes maravillosos.
EDIT: February 2, 2016 IT'S OUT! IT'S OUT! IT'S OUT!!! I have it pre-ordered, and it better come in today! ^.^ EDIT: December 1, 2015  Whoa, whoa, whoa! FIVE new stories!? FIVE! WHEN DID THIS CHANGE!?! June 30, 2015.  Glitches.  Loved it. The Queen's Army.  Been there, done that. Carswell's Guide to Being Lucky.  I know every word in it. The Little Android.  Fun times. The Princess and the Guard.  ..."A never-before-released prequel to Winter, chronicling the friendship between Winter and Jacin
EDIT: February 2, 2016
I have it pre-ordered, and it better come in today!
EDIT: December 1, 2015
Whoa, whoa, whoa!
FIVE new stories!?
WHEN DID THIS CHANGE!?!
June 30, 2015.
Glitches.
Loved it.
The Queen's Army.
Carswell's Guide to Being Lucky.
I know every word in it.
The Little Android.
Fun times.
The Princess and the Guard.
..."A never-before-released prequel to Winter, chronicling the friendship between Winter and Jacin and answering some frequently asked questions about Winter, her insanity, and her scars."Oh.My.Stars.I can handle this.
I'm not going to faint, I'm not going to faint...And a BRAND NEW as-yet-to-be-determined story!
In this story characters which played slightly, main roles in the Lunar Chronicles make their appearances, and we even get to witness Cinder finding out she has a talent with mechanics as she remakes Iko. However, when her male guardian contracts the Lunar virus she is now left in the hands of her stepmother who in no way wants to look after her.
If you don't want to read this collection of novellas but are interested in a more closing epilogue, I would recommend you read this particular story.
Now I’ve read this more than a month ago, it’s kind of blurry in my mind so I’ll try my best but will mostly rely on my notes (thankfully I wrote things down while reading because if I didn’t, I wouldn’t have been able to write nor rate this book)
The Keeper: 4 Stars I really liked to read from Michelle Benoit point of view, she already intrigued me in Scarlet, and I had the feeling that I didn’t have enough of her.
*hugs myself* PLEASE tell me Iko is going to get her own little novella someday. I need more of these characters and this world :(
What a delight. I loved all of the novellas. There were 4 from Marissa's Wattpad that were included and 5 new ones. I think my average rating is around 4.75 stars! Absolute must-read if you love The Lunar Chronicles :)
My heart... So sweet. Loved it!
