https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/452306.The_Sisterhood_of_the_Traveling_Pants
It is true that I adore stories in which friendship plays a humongous part, but I have read hundreds of them in the past.So what makes The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants so special?The pants, obviously, have a lot to do with my enjoying the story.
They symbolize strength, love and courage.Lena, Carmen, Bridget and Tibby are four teenagers with distinct personalities, wants and needs.
It comforts them and helps them in dire situations.The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants tackles multiple subjects and explores various important themes, such as sexuality, coming-of-age, love, life, family and, of course, friendship.The girls are not perfect: they are likeable, but flawed in a way that is almost tangible.
First, I should state that I have never liked the whole "girl power" thing.
Complaint the first: I dislike the fomulatic "four girls with four neat, distinctive personalities" thing.
Lena I liked the best, but I still didn't buy the whole "I don't want people to like me 'cause I'm pretty" thing.
Realistically, most pretty teenagers seem fairly psyched by their good fortune and run with it.
Maybe it was realistic, but if it is, I didn't grow up with girls like that.
Yet somehow books/movies just can't resist the wise-beyond-her-years dying kid.
They care for each other, love each other, put aside fights and misunderstandings with a careless shrug and offer unstinted, non-judgmental support any time, everytime.Lena, the reluctant beauty; feisty, big-tushied Carmen; the anti-everything, mad-at-the-world Tibby and the over-achieving, statuesque athlete Bridget are friends; literally since birth (their mums shared a preggers-aerobics class).
For each, the pants seem to be infused with the strength and support of their fellow friends.
One of the best coming-of-age books in a long time, it’s a must read for everyone who is-a-teen, was-a-teen and will soon be-a-quakin’ in your boots-teen.
If all female YA characters were written to be like these girls, YA would be a much better genre.Four best friends will be spending the summer apart for the first time since birth.
Carmen is going to visit her dad (and - unbeknownst to her - his new family); Lena (along with her sister Effie) are meeting their grandparents for the first time in Greece; Bridget is flying to Los Angeles for soccer camp (and a lesson in love); and Tibby is staying behind to work at a department store where she makes a new friend that will change her life.I love the way everything is handled in this book.
Each of the girls is so different, but I can see a bit of myself in most of them so there were many different moments in each story line that I related to.However, while the characters were the star of the show, I wasn't a big fan of the format or writing rhythm.
There was no real rhyme or reason to when chapter breaks or POV changes occurred and I guess I've just been spoiled by how books like Pretty Little Liars have handled 4 character POVs. Additionally, I felt that most sentences were similar in length and very straightforward.
The character reactions were amazing, but I would have liked a little more time spent on WHY they were reacting the way they were.
Such a beautiful portrayal of love and friendship  sisterhood.Seeing this image after reading the book just made me smile so much.Review to come.
You must also never think "I am fat" while wearing the Pants...So begins the first summer apart for four friends: Lena, who is going to visit her grandparents in Greece with her sister; Carmen, heading south to see her father; Bridget, going to a soccer camp in Mexico; and Tibbie, the only one of the four to be stuck at home with a summer job.
Tibbie meets a younger girl who, despite her young age, teaches Tibbie that there is more to a person than outward appearance.Ann Brashares has written four Sisterhood books, this being the first in the series.
I mean really, how many 15/16 year old girls do you know who's parents let them go trapezing all over the world (in Lena's case literally) and don't think twice about it.
The adults are almost completely absent, and when they are present they are made out to be selfish, stupid, unaware, or all of the above.This is a perfect teen angst novel that I'm sure will appeal to teenagers everywhere who will find this a wonderful book about girls their own age who get to do what they want when they want and have really no real consequences.
Wow!
If you are a teen girl looking for some love stories between friends and their SUPER-HOT boyfriends, well look no further then the Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants series!
This book is about the 4 best friends Bridget, Carmen, Tibby, and Lena when they split up for the summer.
With the Pants binding them together wherever they go, their summers are no longer lonely.
I think my favorite is the love - hate relationship between Eric and Bridget, but I can't tell you, so read to find out!
This book was supposed to be about friendship and female bonding.
It was supposed to be a beautiful summer read that would give me friendship goals.
Of course it is about teenage girls doing teenage stuff.
Of course it is about girls apparently falling in love with guys they’ve never talked to.
And of course on the other hand, it features teenage girl fretting over not having money.
The only character I remotely loved was Bailey.
Not even the dirty pants could save this book for me.
Frankly, I expected to love this.
Oh man. This book brings me back to the days of high school, summer camp, and having little crushes. Seriously, this embodies adolescence through the eyes of four teenage girls that are best friends. I found that this book still stands up to everything I love about a book today. Please, if you have not read this book, give it a chance. It is witty, heartbreaking, and insightful.
Because all the characters are the same.Would you like to know some personality traits?
But we all know that shy girls have a bevy of passion hidden up inside, right?There was Bridget, who was a flirtatious athelete.
There was Carmen, who was either angry or passive through the book and is the least interesting character in the whole series.
She was absolutely the only character with a personality or an interesting story in the whole book.
They had mutual attraction based on mutual sexiness, and didn't really bother to get to know each other much more, even in the next three books.
Third Read: August 2016Second Read: 2009Original Read: 20023.5 STARSI *still* have not read Sisterhood Everlasting so I'm going to reread the first four books (yet again) so I can finally finish off this series.
I'm going the audio route this time around and the thing that I keep noticing is how different the movie was from the book.
It's been so long since I read the books that I forgot how much they condensed into the first movie and how many changes they made.
This is still an enjoyable read after all these years and it's fun to revisit the four friends.
Alexis Bledel is nothing like the way I would have imagined Lena (described as having the tanned skin of her Greek ancestry, while Bledel is quite white) if I had read the book first and her character's experience in the movie barely resembles that of her book's counterpart.
As usual, I'm mostly baffled by the choices screen writers/directors/whoever's in charge of making these changes make.Anyway, I haven't seen/didn't love the movie enough to constantly be saying "that didn't happen in the movie" to myself as I was reading, which was good, it left me to simply enjoy the book, which I did.
I went into this expecting it to be a super fluffy teen-girl-friendship-group story, kind of like the movie Now and Then??
(Actually, a lot of the teen actions fall into that camp too, but that's pretty standard for YA books...) And the included letters between the girls kind of drove me nuts because half of them could have fitted on a post-it, and why the hell would you spend a ton of money posting a letter that's three lines long?!
I took off a quarter of a star because it took me at least half of the book to actually get into the story.
This book was probably one of the first that got me into the YA genre!!
So, obviously, with my terrible memory, I'd say I probably remember 30% of it.And that 30% is basically: THIS WAS A REALLY GOOD BOOK.
READ IT......NOW.
XDThis story is about 4 friends who travel all over the world with this mysterious pair of magical pants.
I mean, pants that can make everyone look good?!!I NEED A PAIR, PRONTO.So besides everyone trying to squeeze into these pants, these 'sisters' experience so much crazy shit, like love (duh), boy cooties ;), and friendship problem drama.
:)So is this a typical story of life??Sort of..............JUST READ IT.
I read this book long long time ago. But the impression is still fresh in my mind. I adore this girls. they represent everything about becoming a woman in modern era. Even the story is cheesy on the romantic side, but the moral message is there. The author writes it in a way that the wording resonance with teenagers. every one of us will find some sort of connection with all those girls. Again, this is a beautiful book.
I wasn't planning on reading it but the movie was coming on and I decided I should read the book first before watching the film.
The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants is a story with an awful premise that was surprisingly well-executed.
The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants is not a romance, although there are romantic elements of varying degrees in three of the girl's stories.
The idea of magical jeans that fit all four girls perfectly was a bit too silly for me, and I feel that the story could have stood on its own without it.
I think these were the first multiple perspective books I ever read and I really adored being back in the world of Lena, Tibby, Bee & Carmen.
This is the story of the first summer the girls spend apart, each going on different adventures and stepping out into the world of grown-ups and real life.
We see each of the girls go through a multitude of growth and life experience and Ann's honestly is really refreshing.I kind of wish more contemporary books where like this - less angsty and more awkward, full of mistakes and OOPS moments :)I also listened to the audiobook for parts of the story and I really recommend it!
I was almost ashamed to love this book, because I'm REALLY not one for "chick lit"...give me Gothic or intrigue any day!
However, I think this series is really exceptional.
The experiences cannot be typified -although there is romance, I appreciate how it does not fall into the "crush/agony/happily-ever-after" triptych that is common to most "chick lit" novels.
I think Ann Brashares is remarkably gifted at describing emotions and experiences -she chooses seemingly minor incidents and trains her descriptive powers on them until you see the intricacies just as she does.
I would be interested to see her in another genre -maybe historical fiction?
Carmen and Lena remain home for the summer but still learn more about themselves and their family.My thoughts:I don’t have much to say about the books because they are just cute, fun reads though they hint at deeper topics.
I enjoyed reading them and it’s possible that Ann Brashares might become a new favorite author of mine because I love how easily her story flows and how relatable these characters are.
I couldn’t stop reading it.That reaction was a pleasant surprise because though I enjoyed the movies, I didn’t love them; and I’ve toyed with idea of reading the book since the first time I heard of it but always forget to.
These four girls were thrown together because their moms were in an exercise group together and born within weeks of each other.
They attend different school so summer is their bonding and catching up time only this time three will leave home.
Tibby is called the rebel but will remain home this summer working as a clerk in a retail store and then she befriends Bailey and gets in tune with her sensitive side.
At the end of summer they are back together celebrating birthdays and the new school year.
I watched the movie years back, but this makes me want to watch it again for all the silly, girly feels (and I miss those ladies who starred in it <3).The pants being a symbol in this story was a really honest yet fun take on passing the themes around in a book.
I feel like as a pre-teen I wouldn't have noticed the theme, but now as an adult it just warms me up!Ann makes you love and feel for these girls in this book.
It's not an adult look at teens, in my opinion.Overall, I'm in love with this series!
It wasn't as good as I'd hoped, but it was okay. Let me just say that if I ever find a pair of magic jeans that make me look fabulous I'M NOT SHARING!
4/5 starsMore reviews on my website“Today is the tomorrow we worried about yesterday.”I went back and forth on how to rate this book.
While I was reading it - it felt like a solid 4 star read.
After I finished it - I was ready to give it 5 stars.
But as the hours passed by I decided to drop it down to 3.5 because I didn't like how some of the things were handled.
But in the end I did settled down on 4 stars.Although if I am being completely honest with myself I think if I haven't watched the mov
But in the end I did settled down on 4 stars.Although if I am being completely honest with myself I think if I haven't watched the movie first (a few years back, and loved it so much) I wouldn't have been so into the book itself, as this is one of the very few cases where I think the movie was better than the book.
I loved them all.But once again I did like the movie's way of handling Carmen's storyline a bit better - I just liked that all of the girls were there, with her, as opposing the book having her to fly solo for an important part of her development.
Must quote from the back of the book, as I love it :)We, the Sisterhood, hereby instate the following rules to govern the use of the Traveling Pants:2.
that I often feel the same way in the face of beauty, and 2.
What a wonderful way to write it.SPOILER ALERT:When Tibby's pet dies and Tibby is in denial, it requires some processing to realize Mimi is gone.
It was left-over dad, I think.When her friend Bailey dies too, Brashares writes the most beautiful tribute for the living: "She was alive, and they were dead.
And live big :)This is a great book!
Carmen, Lena, and Tibby have my favorite story lines.
I would've liked for them to have more time to actually get to know each other, but even the small scenes where Lena is just observing him and noticing things about him are sweet and I'm hoping we see their love story grow in the second book.
I think Bailey is a great character and I loved seeing Tibby and Bailey's friendship grow over the summer.
Tibby, Bridget, Carmen, and Lena support each other through everything they go through that summer and prove that even distance can't shatter their bond.
I enjoyed the book for the most part, there were a few slow moving areas and a couple things that just made me go "huh?" but otherwise it was definitely a relatable book.Carmen, Bridget (Bee), Tibby, and Lena have been best friends forever.
These pants are so special because, not only are they a thrift store find, they also fit each of the girls perfectly, despite them all being different sizes and body shapes.Lena gets to start and with her, the traveling pants experience a boy wanting to get close to her but then causing problems between her grandparents and their friends.
I am so happy I finally got around to reading thisI fell in love with their friendship right from the beginning.
I need my vivacious Bee!Lena was quite sweet.
Sweet is the only word I can think of to describe her.Tibby's story was probably my favourite, even if she wasn't my favourite character.
She irritated me a little in the beginning too, but by the end I just wanted to adopt her.
But with Bailey around, she wasn't.
Fantastic character development!So. We have the whiny one, the vivacious one, the sweet one, the angry one, and a pair of travelling pants.
so, I'll give a brief synopsis on the four MCs, that I couldn't relate to in any real way, and what I think other girls may see and like in them.
Trust me, I can understand hating being seen as only one aspect of your person but GET.OVER.YOURSELF and show the people another side of you.She gives evidence to the theory that shy girls are snobby girls, in a big way.
I found all the MCs voices annoying, not to mention all of their behaviour being self-destructive and crazy.
