https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2866718-untamed
I like the general story line and the characters, but the redundant writing is getting a little old.
Everytime the Grandmother speaks she calls Zoey the Cherokee word for daughter and every single time the author explains that the word makes her feel safe.
There is a whole lot of explaining and back story and description and really not a whole lot of story, plot, character development or emotion.
Also, has anyone ever noticed that Zoey falls in love/lust with any cute single guy that walks into her path?These authors definitely need to take that writing instruction that everyone learned in grade school..."Show, don't tell."
Right off the bat, this is my favorite book of The House of Night series.
This book doesn't deal with Zoey's love life as much as the others have.
I finally like Aphrodite and am happy to read about her snobby self without wanting to smack her.
Zoey's Grandma comes to stay at The House of Night and it is easy to feel the love all of the fledglings feel towards this woman.
The book comes to a close in the midst of the action and you are left unaware of what's happened to some of the characters outside of the main group of friends.
Those same eyes had shown me happiness and passion and warmth and even the beginnings of love.
Eriks cruel attitude toward Zoey better keep up since this makes me actually like him as a character in this lame book for as before i was wondering and tbh still wondering why he's in this book at all.
Tell me how she cheats and makes out with her ex-boyfriend, while in a relationship with another boy, and despite that manages to have sex with a teacher all in the same 2 month time span.
This is a very important book of the series because two really significant characters are making a grand entrance:1. James Stark, the new boy in school, the dog lover, the archery genius who has never missed a target and who will make all the Zoey’s pursuers (dead and alive) fade away.Stark was cute. He was medium tall, not quarterback tall like my human ex-boyfriend, Heath, or abnormally gorgeous Superman tall like my fledgling-turned-vampyre ex-boyfriend, Erik. But he wasn’t short, either. Act
He had cute, messy guy hair, that sandy color between blond and brown.
His face was okay, too, with a strong chin, straight nose, big brown eyes, and nice lips.
His hair was as black as his wings, and fell loose and thick around his shoulders, making him look like an ancient warrior.
It was like a sculpture come to life, and it made even the most handsome mortal, be he human or vampyre, look like a sickly, unsuccessful attempt at imitation of his glory.
Those eyes called to me ...
I know this is targeted towards a young audience, but come on, does Zoe really need multiple love interests in every book!!!?
They finally understood why Zoe had to do things the way she did and they even felt a bit ashamed for their selfish reaction and unwillingness to see things from her perspective.I also loved the way this book brought in beliefs and traditions from different cultures and faiths.
I also enjoyed seeing Zoe realize that there is bad and good in all groups (not all Christians are bad, not all vampyres are loyal to their goddess, etc.)
I mean, she was dating Erik, Loren, and Heath.
What the hell?The fact that she has to mention that Damien and Jack are gay and that Shaunee and Erin aren't twins gets on my nerves every time!Then she gets all mad when Erik starts to call her a slut!
And she gets all hurt when Heath breaks up with her and gets with Casey or something.
Not so soon after losing Loren and Erik and Stark.
He was a gentlemen through and through and always would be."Um, Zoey, don't ya think that you've already hurt his feelings?
take beside the fact that Zoey is definitely a (sorry) ho, P.C Cast had created a great book.
I am 15 years old and i had a boyfriend, i know how it felt like to be between handsome men, but still i doubt Zoey is normal.My first impression: 1.
(I never like Heath) Obviously, i was very glad that Zoey may had something with Stark.
Maybe the reason i gave untamed 5 star is because there were less love thingie, not like in Chosen (i thought i would puke because Zoey was definitely shallow).This book was totally focused on the real issue and i found it very pleasant.
Stark is another speshul snowflake set up to join Zoey’s harem of complete tools, and since Cast has run out of elements, he gets the Goddess-given gift of infinite Patriot Arrows.It’s the doinkiest fucking thing you guys, he can literally fire an arrow into the sky and it will Looney Toons its way right into whatever he’s thinking about, even if what he’s thinking about isn’t literally what he’s thinking about.
Zoey’s grandmother exposits the (from what I can tell), completely made-up-for-House-of-Night tale of Kalona, a fallen angel rapist and father of the Raven Mockers, actual creatures from Cherokee legend, who are half-bird, half-man in exactly the way you don’t want.It’s around this time that Untamed shoots for its most unexpected target – feminism.
Αυτό το βιβλίο μου άρεσε περισσότερο από τα προηγούμενα, καθώς οι χαρακτήρες μου φάνηκαν αρκετά πιο ώριμοι. Ειδικά όσον αφορά την πρωταγωνίστρια Ζόι, νομίζω ότι έγινε άλμα στις μεταξύ μας σχέσεις, εφόσον σταμάτησε να φλερτάρει με 452 άντρες ταυτόχρονα, για να ασχοληθεί με πιο σοβαρά θέματα, οπότε σταμάτησα να θέλω να περάσω από πάνω της με φορτηγο.Ένα θέμα είχα μόνο, το βιβλίο είναι γεμάτο πολλές, περιττές συζητήσεις, που τραβάνε πολύ και νιώθω ότι δεν θα τελειώσουν ποτέ, άλλωστε αυτός είναι και ο λόγος που δεν του βάζω πάνω από τρία αστεράκια.
Okay, even though I haven't been a teen for a couple of years (uhm, make that over a decade), I'm a HUGE fan of the House of Night series. (Rather obvious, considering I bought it on the date of its release) Marked, Betrayed and Chosen were superb! That said, I really enjoyed Untamed, but if I had to order the books according to preference - it'd be fourth on my list. I eagerly await Hunted. And the twists and turns I anticipate (and can't even imagine) will result from the events in Untamed. (Nope, no spoilers from me).
I've read the first four of this series and each one made me vomit in my mouth just a little more.
Now mind you, the ending-making-a-crappy-book-worth-it thing very rarely happens.
It's a good think I'm not in a terrible marriage, right, I'd be here till the end waiting to see if it got better.It's usually not such a bad thing -- I'm a fast reader.
Thankfully, there's only one more book in the House of Night series, and I know the chances are slim that it's going to make make it all worth it, but I've gotta try.
What seems to bother me about this series is that as preoccupied with calling every other girl around her a "slut" or "ho" for the smallest things, Zoey sure does seem to be quite a bit of one herself.
What makes me even more annoyed is that she continues to call people "hos" and "sluts" even after that whole incident.
It's ridiculous!Not only did that happen, but she also has:-3 boyfriends, as I said before.-She makes out and practically humps Heath not only in the passenger seat of a car, but in the middle of a public park.Does anybody else find this character just a tad bit, oh I don't know...
Yes, Zoey is beating herself up for falling for Loren's crap in book 3.
I hated that all through book 3 she kept referring to Erik, Heath and Loren as her "three boyfriends." Auuugh.Then she has the nerve, when finally talking to Erik about things, to act like he should be apologizing to her because he reacted without having the whole story (Loren's true reasons for seducing her, etc.)....
Erik has a lot to forgive, and sure I'm glad they seem to have resolved it enough to be talking and on the same side again, but Zoey just never seems to "get" what was wrong about the whole situation, and that really irked me.
2.5 "Well, this is getting old" stars...So much potential...Things have gotten bad for Zoey Redbird in Untamed, book 4 of the House of Night series.
In one week she has gone from having 3 boyfriends to none and from having a trusted group of friends to being an outcast.From the cover: "Zoey's adventures at vampyre finishing school take a wild and dangerous turn as loyalties are tested, shocking true intentions come to light and an ancient evil is awakened."My thoughts...Meh. Same ol', same ol' dragging the story out, and polluting it with the unnecessary overuse of the 'f' word so prevalent in these books.
Like I said; So much potential, but just falls short.2.5 stars
There isn't much to say about this novel other than it made me not want to finish the series. Zoe is such an annoying little putz that I just have the desire to slap some sense into her!I felt like so much of the book was what happened in the previous novels that I was bored to tears. The book should've only been 200 or so pages without the BS. I don't have a desire to read more of this series so I'll leave it at that.Also...all the love interests are laughable.
OK. So this book is horribly written. It seems a 12 yo wrote it. I think the other books in this series are pretty good and I was so excited when I ordered it from my local bookstore. I read the first 3 pages and almost throw up. I really don't want to finish the book at all. I understand that the authors of this book are not the best but they could have done a much better job writing this book.
The House of Night series is unlike any other vampire series I’ve read.
I really enjoy the series and it’s interpretation of vampires.
I’m especialy looking forward to reading the next novel.
After reading all of the previous novels and immensely enjoying them, Untamed fell short of the standard that had been set.
There were a few grammatical errors that I was surprised to find, but I think that shouldn’t have precedent over enjoying the novel.
I was also surprised with the direction the authors have taken with the character Aphrodite, and I can’t wait to see what happens to her!
Auch im August geht es weiter mit der House of Night Reihe, daher habe ich auch diesen Monat wieder zu einem Teil gegriffen.
Die Welt um Zoey und das House of Night ist inzwischen gut bekannt und wir spinnen die Geschichte rund um den roten Faden weiter.
Zoey war in diesem Band nicht mehr ganz so kopflos und unbedacht, dennoch hat sie bis Teil 4 noch keine große Veränderung durchgemacht, wie ich finde.Die Autorinnen haben es wieder geschafft das Buch nach Schema F aufzubauen.
Und natürlich den bedrohlichen roten Faden, der wohl noch eine Weile verfolgt werden wird..
Zoey will need to figure out how to patch things up with her friends and gain confidence in order to beat the devious Neferet.I would have to say that this is the worst book in the series and the characters would have to be the worst thing about it.
When Zoey first speaks to her group of friends she looks to Damien knowing that her “gay friend” is the weakest link.
She has got more personality than the rest of The House of Night characters, including the main one, Zoey.I hope the Cast’s get better.
What’s hilarious is that this book also has Nyx talking about free will – but Zoey has no decision making agency of her own, she exists to be a puppet to the goddess who then draws the line about intervening elsewhere.And while I’m on terrible plotting and this weird weird goddess and her idea of gifts – let’s look at Stark, Zoey’s newest love interest with his completely ridiculous archery power.
Every time he draws an arrow it’s completely random whatever he will hitFor more hilarity - not only does he have NO CONTROL over what he hits since any passing thought can have his power decide "hey, you're hungry?
Which is why it was so apparent that Aphrodite was modeled after Cordelia Chase (both Buffy and Angel versions.) This isn't a bad thing, merely obvious.
When I read lines like (and I'm paraphrasing) "I'd never felt such a pull on my powers before." She's only had these powers for 2 months.
I don't know if that would be so clear to the readers of the book but it was pretty obvious to me.
I will continue to read the series because it's fun and light but it isn't living up to the promise of the first book.
I really like where the plot is going, it is very interesting. I could do without the constant retelling of the other books.
Don't feel too bad for Zoey, though, because in fifty pages she'll have her friends back (because of someone else's help and not through any kind of sacrifise or work on her part) and by the end of the book, at least two of her boyfriends will have forgiven her for no reason and a third one might be in the making.
I actually read it and thought 'Oh, yeah, I know they're foreshadowing this but they're totally going to do this other thing'....
Like reading a scientific paper, except more predictable.All this said, do I not recommend reading this or the other books of the series?
Zoey has a whole lot more things to go through with regards to this book, there are things happening that none of us would ever want to go through, and would never want to understand the feeling of needing to go through.
Yes its getting a little cliche and sickening for the series because you kind of want the story to happen without the whole love fess mess that she seems to always go through.
I know that they want to add a teenager reality to the novel so that we can all connect, and yes I am aware that these books are probably not aimed at people of my age.
Tonight they housed monsters.'(view spoiler)[PlotJust one week ago, Zoey Redbird had three boyfriends and a close group of friends.
This is the fourth book in The House of Night series, and one of the best so far for me.
But I was unprepared for the enormity of what Neferet had planned, and as it started to unfold it was definitely a shock.At the end of the last book, Zoey made some bad decisions that affected her relationships with her boyfriend(s) and her friends.
I hate the character Zoey, so much.
and:Oh i feel bad, I shouldn't be doing this to Erik but I love Loren oh and wait I get horny over heath!
Words can not describe how much i hate her.But I guess it was better than Chosen, I was so happy when Heath was horrible to Zoey.
I was like: OOOOOOO IN YOUR FACE!I also liked this book because of Stark, I hope he comes back in Hunted.
Does Heath apologize?I just hope Hunted isn't a dissapointment like the last rubbish book but don't get me wrong I really did like Untamed!
I feel like the first couple of books were wrapped up neatly in a bow by the end of the story.
The last two are allowing things to remain open longer so that when you finish a book you are left wondering what will happen next.
I don't want to give stuff away here- but the drama is huge and some of the things that were on back burners get moved to the front and some heat applied.On the back of the book it says that Neferet declared war on the humans, so I feel like I can mention that without being wicked ol' spoiler girl.
One thing for sure I know is that I will not be reading the rest of the series.
I just watched a video interview of the 2 authors though and that confirmed for me that I will no longer be reading the rest of the series.
I was hoping that after writing a few books the author would start to come into their own and evolve but that did not happen.
I think this would be one book series that might actually be better if it were made into a movie because the characters would have to be more developed, because beneath everything the story itself is not bad.
i almost didn't read this one, cuz the third one was getting kinda stupid.
i thought zoey was being REALLY stupid in the third one.
i mean, she had three boyfriends at once, yet she's always like, "eww.
aphrodite is such a ho." and i'm like "LOOK WHO'S TALKING." but anyway, it was much more interesting than the last one, and zoey is sort of getting her act back together, although she still kinda annoys me.
and probably unnecessary.
idk; he'll probably be more important later on in the series.
anyway, i'm glad i didn't give the series up.
HoN never disappoints!!
