https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104344.The_Gate_to_Women_s_Country
One reviewer on Goodreads calls The Gate to Women's Country "gender essentialist, heterosexist, cissexist garbage," and it is, I suppose.
First published in 1988, The Gate to Women's Country is very second-wave feminist and exhibits many of the problems one would expect from that description.
It's also beautiful and sad and, while exclusionary, an otherwise excellent and enjoyable treatment of the issues that it did deal with.The Gate to Women's Country examines an (honestly not-so-unlikely) hypothetical future in which a world ruled by men ended in an apocalypse that wrecked the planet and almost killed everyone.
Gender essentialist, heterosexist, cissexist garbage. Avoid at all costs.
Yet the women still have sex with the brutish men even as they are trying to breed them out of existence.Then you get some random scary people who shave women's heads and don't allow them to have freedom, and you get this dippy irritating book which for some reason so many feminists like, but I don't know why!Read it again in 2014 AND I STILL HATE IT!
I think other books do After the End better and I don't think you'll get rid of war just by breeding it out of men.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Hoodwinking Readers: “The Gate to Women's Country” by Sheri S.
Tepper(original review, 1987)“The Gate to Women's Country”, remains the best written and most provocative of the lot when it comes to Feminist SF.
It's one of the few books where I turned the last page and flipped back to the first and read it straight through again when I realized how deceptive the text, itself, was.
That ends up being an ingenious clue about the ways we, as readers, are about to be hoodwinked.
The narrative follows Stavia, daughter of one of the senior councilwomen and her relationship with Chernon – the son of a neighbour, who unbeknownst to her has been instructed by his superiors to woo her to try and find out the real secrets of what goes on through the gates to women’s country.It’s a book which seems to be leading in one direction, to a conflict between men and women – and yet it doesn’t quite do that.
Cleverly it shows what could lie in the future of these characters is the return of man’s domination, but it knows that we already understand what that looks like and so actually steers us in a different direction.
In the effort not to repeat the mistakes of the distant past, both the women and men of Women's Country have locked themselves into a cycle of more recent and still costly errors.The novel would have been more compelling if not for its temporary detour into the caricaturish Holyland (with its cardboard stereotypes) and if only the reader came to know Servitors such as Joshua and Corrig better, these "real men" who choose to turn their back on the warriors and provide (in more ways than most realize) for the women.
Although, as one commenter has said, it could be argued that this is simply an authorial choice to make it easier for Tepper to explore the specific issues she wishes to focus on, it strikes me as too simplistic to simply say, "Oh, teh gay, we fixed that a while back," especially since the book is so much about questions of biology and essential natures and this particular issue (as opposed to the issues of violence and masculinity) seems to be rather taken for granted where it could be explored in very interesting ways.
It addresses questions of why humanity is so violent and possible solutions, of gender politics, of what a future might be like if men and women did not live together as a rule.
In this post-apocalyptic future, matriarchal women live in walled towns, carrying on agriculture, arts, crafts and politics.
Men live outside the towns in warrior garrisons, to protect the women.The story is about our heroine and how she learns some of the secrets of her society, secrets that are hidden by putting them right out there in the open so anyone with the wit to notice can see.
Instead The Gate To Women's Country presents a fledgling eco-utopian society where the ultimate aim is balance and equality between the sexes within a pacifist, non-violent culture.
As well as being a very well written story, with excellent characterisation and a strong plot, this book raises issues that stay with you long after the final page has been turned.The book opens with Stavia, the central character, meeting with her fifteen-year old son who has made the decision to reject her and Women's Country for the life of a warrior in the garrison outside the town.
I remember reading this book for a Science Fiction class I took in college.
So I took this class in a genre I had no interest in, and the teacher was all gung-ho about sf being all about being able to engage in interesting ideas and complex politics and stuff like that.
What I remember is that women all live in this big gated community, with some eunuch like men who do their bidding, and I think they have some studs around to get them babies, oh wait no, now I remember they let the men in at one time each year to make babies with.
As I began reading, I started with the impression that I was exploring a very patriarchal set-up.
Sex is viewed as healthy & desirable as long as disease is prevented.On the other extreme is a community apparently organized much like the polygamist culture in Bountiful, B.C. and in Utah.
Older men appropriate all the women & girls for their own “harems,” leaving the young men frustrated and angry.
Very religious society, based on the Judaeo-Christian model.Although the author does seem to favour the matriarchal culture, my impression from the book is that she wanted to show that NEITHER extreme is desirable and that both fail in crucial aspects.
I had some issues with this novel that prevented me from giving it a higher rating:1. not-so-subtle ramming of author's opinions down the reader's throat, and poor characterization as a result:from evil inbred religious extremists, to equally cliched women-are-the-sufferers Iphigenia play (not to mention those evil hyper-masculine men that make sufferers out of women)...2. depiction of homosexuality as an illness that gets successfully eliminated by some good ol' genetic manipulation 3. gender essentialism
I have found Tepper to be frustratingly uneven as a writer. When her stories take on what might be called a "feminist" theme, they don't work as well for me as those who explore other themes.This novel has a frame that I found especially irritating because the emotions described in the frame were never earned, and I did not find myself believing in or caring about them.The inner story was, by contrast, quite engaging, and I found myself wishing that she had left out the frame entirely.
nurture, the nature of men and women, what freedoms we can/should give up in exchange for safety, and who should make those decisions, but it never really dealt with the issues in anything resembling a positive direction.Sex is used as a tool to satiate the warriors twice a year, not as a demonstration of love or even for procreation.
And though the Councilwomen's goal of a peaceful society is laudable, their methods, which included subterfuge, deception, selective forced sterilization, and assassination, were not.I didn't care for the play rehearsals that formed the "present day" part from which the flashbacks occurred.
(The Female Man, for example — The Gate to Women’s Country is from the same decade, so I wasn’t very hopeful.) And there were some cringe-worthy moments, to be honest; the whole bit about “gay syndrome” being cured now, for example.Still, for the most part I really enjoyed this.
There’s a lot of interesting stuff here: the ethical dilemmas about what the women do in the cause of ending violence, the unique empathy-related abilities which come out of it.
Because this sort of prose was in no way typical of writers of the 1980s (book is from 1987), when you get such female SciFi, Fantasy and spec authors as C.J. Cherryh, Ursula K.
While I have read a couple of enlightening feminist books, even books which shoehorn feminism sideways into genre fiction (abovementioned female spec authors certainly did that now and then), there seems to be a large pool of female writers who have to hate men, who seem to hate their own gender as much in a way, who really carry boulder-like chips on their shoulders and somehow don't notice they entirely lost their grip on reality.
And Tepper's imaginative & unique, often non-linear writing with a definite, but never strident, female perspective.
In this one she takes on nature of relations between & within the sexes head on with an allegory within an allegory approach.
Sometimes as a woman & others as a girl growing up in the Women's Country, a series of walled cities guarded by garrisons of male warriors.
Inside are only women & non-warrior males known as Servitors.
The two societies only come together for procreation at their so called carnivals.Tepper creates an entire post-Convulsion world in fine detail.
I have probably read it 100 plus times (it is like comfort food-I found myself reading it along with the New Testament the week my sweet husband died ).
I like the empowerment given to some women even though the men can't or don't want to understand.
As more men choose to return to women's country more of an Eden can be established.
I have given many copies of this book away and will continue to read and encourage others to read it.
Couldn't get my church group to read it as it has the "F" word in it a few times!
I know, I know), and where women are just better suited to lead because of their biological drive to nurture.Anyway 300 years after the "Convulsion" women live in towns while the male warriors are garrisoned outside of them, kept uneducated and without access to most tools or technology in order to prevent another war.* We explore this world through a Councilwoman's daughter, Stavia, whose main purpose appears to be making terrible choices in order to drive the narrative along.
The first Tepper I read was Beauty when I was 14 and it left me unsettled and fascinated, but this book just left me nonplussed.
Unlike Beauty, I kept waiting to be drawn into the story although I'm not sure how much of it I should attribute to Tepper's storytelling and how much to the fact that I am immediately put off by gender essentialism.
I found the inclusion of the Holyland in the story to present an alternative society where the power equation was reversed slightly...shoddy.
My last update stated that I wasn't sure how I feel about this story.
I am now finished and the best I can come up with is that I am conflicted.
While I think I can understand how a society chooses to rebuild after a terrible event, and that society makes certain decisions so that terrible event doesn't happen again, I am not sure if they are the right decisions.
I am not sure if a society built on lies would last.
That being said, I think I can understand the why, I simply don't agree with it.
I am not sure.
There it is, conflicted.
What kind of dialogue of mutual understanding will come out of reading this?
Ursula Le Guin can not only write circles around Tepper, she can address issues of gender, war, and oppression in various forms without ever sliding into this simplistic female=good, male=bad thinking, with the few exceptions just proving the rule, Sheesh.
Rush Limbaugh would adore this book, because it proves all the nasty things he's been saying about feminists for years.
I loved the first few things I read by Tepper but the last three I've tried have gone from bad to worse.
This is my favorite Sheri S.
Tepper book.
Many people consider her work to be "lite," and that characterisation is accurate.
But easily understood, broadly stated truths are truths nonetheless.
I enjoy this book first and foremost for its detailed and fascinating depiction of a post-apocalyptic matriarchal society (much less depressing than A Canticle for Leibowitz).
The characters are well-fleshed out and compassionately portrayed, even the villains.
And despite the futuristic setting, this is clearly a coming-of-age story, as we watch Stavia grow from innocent child to wounded woman.
I read this book once a year or so and find something new to relish each time.
This is probably the worst science fiction book that I have ever actually finished reading. Tepper's agenda gets in the way of any developed narrative as she instead uses hundreds of pages to voice her disgust for the male gender in a fashion reminiscent of a jaded high school girls blog. As a man who strongly opposes the alpha male, meathead style of masculinity, I found this book particularly ignorant.
To say that the story is misandrist, gender essentialist, and aggressively heteronormative would not be inaccurate nor unfair.As much as I wanted to throw this book across my room at times, or to give it one star, I will give it some credit where credit is due.
This book is of its time, and it came from an angry place.
It is interesting to use science fiction to play around with thought experiments, and our book club had an excellent discussion about this one.
The writing seemed to improve by the conclusion as the plot became more driven and the ideas much clearer.For thousands of years (and they still are), women have been raped, pillaged, murdered, objectified, and used as currency for men.
But I am going to give Tepper some license on this, because of the simple enormity that men has done to women throughout history, and, besides, Tepper did write some male characters that does not reveal any ill-will or possessiveness towards women.
Women's country is the story of a society created after we almost wiped humans off the face of the earth with our wars.
Outside of Women’s Country there are bands of people that live within their own little sick set of rules.I really wanted to love this one.
The story is told in a couple different tenses and there is also a play about Troy going on.
When it was first introduced I was like oooh this is cool, I love this story, but then it became a distraction because I wanted more info on Women’s Country not Troy.
After an awkward beginning (I nearly put the book down before page 50) I enjoyed this.
The Holylanders were a little over-the-top, but if I had read this when I was younger I probably would have been as fascinated by them as I was by the chained women of Darkover's Dry Towns.The story contains an ugly sort of feminism, but I've read so many books where women are supressed that it didn't feel too bad to go the other way for once.
This is one of those books that could have used another 100 pages.The Iphigenia play interludes were annoying and I started skipping them after a while.
The Gate to Women's Country didn't change my mind about post-apocalypse stories (nor did A Canticle for Leibowitz or any of the other classic post-nuke-em books), but I don't regret having read it and may well read another by Tepper in the future.Below are questions (and spoilers) for book club discussion.Does Tepper's concept that violence can be bred out of human males (following the Laplander method of acquiring more docile bull reindeer) favor genetics over culture?
Interesting: dystopian, maybe a little sic-fi; fdef out of my go-to range. Nice to read something I wouldn't ordinarily pick: Read this for our NOW book group.
