https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23226.She_Went_All_the_Way
If you don't mind Hollywood romance stories and are a fan of love/hate relationships, then this is definitely a great book to add to your TBR shelf.She Went All the Way is the funny and sexy story of Oscar winning screenwriter, Lou Calabrese, and hunky, George Clooney-like actor, Jack Townsend.
Things take off at lighting-fast-speed when Lou and Jack are flying via helicopter to shoot the final scene of the blockbuster movie series, Copkiller.
To get even, Lou wrote scenes into the new Copkiller movies that involve Jack stripping down to his birthday suit, being beaten with bamboo sticks and working in a snake pit.
Not sure what happened here but I really did not like this book at all.
The plot sounded promising with Lou, a screenwriter, and Jack, a famous actor, forced to be around each other despite the fact they can't stand one another.
And then obviously because this is a romance we all know what happens next.
But with way too many characters introduced in the beginning, a ludicrous plot, and main characters who I didn't really have an interest in, I felt like this was a chore to finish.
I like chic-lit, but quality chic-lit. This book did not fall into the quality category. I did not find the story of a screen-writer and famous movie star, being lost in the Alaskan wilderness because of an attempt to murder one of them, very believable. I did not find the characters interesting and was not surprised when the two ended up together.
I often, while reading her work, vacillate between amusement, disgust, enthrallment, and irritation.
For me personally, the humor in She Went All the Way is what sets it apart from most other over-the-top formulaic romances.
My major irritation with nearly all of Cabot's books is that all the women are walking stereotypes of...well, women.
She shoots and kills a guy (all right, self defense shooters unite), but has a problem with breaking into a cabin to gain shelter during a blizzard.
So yeah, sometimes Ms. Cabot's "humor" falls sadly flat.
Baca reviewnya juga di  Ren's Little Corner Well, untuk penghujung tahun 2010, satu lagi buku yang mendapat 5 bintang, dan ini satu2nya Chicklit di tahun ini yang dapet 5 bintang :D :D...Dapet pinjeman dari si Kimbab, dan membacanya pas perjalanan pulang ke Malang, Aku bener2 terpesona ma ceritanya, penulisan dari Meg Cabot berjalan mulus dan tidak membosankan untuk dibaca. Aku mendapati diriku bener2 masuk dalam ceritanya. Ceritanya sendiri berlatar belakang hiruk pikuk dunia perfilman di Holly
Sepanjang itu pula Lou dan Jack selalu bertengkar, namun tidak menyangkal kalau mereka saling tertarik satu sama lain, sampai pada puncaknya setelah acara makan malam di dapur (ehem2 =)) )Tiga hari telah berlalu, setelah kecelakaan helikopter, dan Jack serta Lou tetap berusaha melarikan diri dari pengejar mereka, sampai akhirnya mereka berdua menemukan bar, dan meminta pertolongan.Masalah selesai??Tidak juga, karena rupanya ancaman pembunuhan terhadap JAck masih berlanjut, dan parahnya saat itu Jack sadar bahwa mungkin selama ini Loulah yang selalu dia cari2 sebagai pendamping hidupnya nanti...Bisa dibilang, aku sangat menikmati kisah Lou dan Jack disiniDari yang awalnya hate at the first sight, dan lama2 jadi saling jatuh cinta, walau sama 2 menyangkal (Lou ga mau terluka lagi hatinya gara2 aktor, Jack anti komitmen).
I normally like Meg Cabot, but characters here were just a bit too one dimensional and shallow. Situations are totally unbelievable, like getting all hot and heavy in the Alaskan wilderness while waiting to be rescued int he freezing cold wilderness!
The main character is Lou Calabrese - a screenwriter who dated actor Barry Kimmel until he ran off with the co-star of the movie he was working on and married her.
Lou has to fly to Alaska to work on the movie she wrote - Copkiller and ends up in a helicopter with Jack Townsend - the star of Copkillers - and the jerk who changed her writing in the movie.
Second time read and still loving it. Vintage Meg Cabot <3 Throwback to childhood!
If you think my anger is cute, you obviously don’t respect me and can find your own way out of the Alaskan wilderness, thanks.Not to mention: the Hollywood stuff all seemed immensely fake, though not as fake as the supposed serial monogamist Jack asking Lou to move in with him immediately after they sleep together, and asking her to marry him not long after.
That is not the way to keep it all in the family!) Even picturing Jack as Paul Gross, which I started doing about a third of the way through, was not enough to make me like this book, or even feel engaged by it.I still think there must be good Romances out there, and that I’m just clearly not finding them.
I haven't read a romance I really enjoyed in a while. This one didn't have a ton of sexy scenes (which was a nice change) and I actually liked both main characters. There were some genuinely funny scenes that made me laugh out loud. My kids asked what was funny and of course it was adult humor so I couldn't repeat. :) Definitely worth a read if you are looking for a light, funny, romance with not alot of sexy scenes.
Potřebuju větší zbraň :D
they ended up traveling in the russian artic and soon end bieng in each others arms this is vey werid since they practilly wanted to kill each other before this but they found out soon enough that maby there might be something there besides lust.
so if you like action, adventure, and a little sex this is the book you want.
Kniha sa číta tak ľahko ako by sa pozeral film - ten typický americký :-) Väčšina scén je viac neuveriteľná ako uveriteľná, o čom svedčí dejová línia, kde sa dvaja mladí ľudia, ktorí sa neznášajú, ocitnú v zasneženej Aljaške a bojujú o holý život.
K tomu sa do seba zamilujú aj ich rodičia (jeho matka Eleanor a jej otec Frank) a v poslednej chvíli (tak ako to má byť), na pozadí napínavej akčnej scény, odhalia vraha :-)Napriek tomu, že autorka použila lacnú hollywoodsku zápletku, romantiku na pozadí akčnej scény, a vraha, ktorého odhalenie vás nemá v čom prekvapiť, ja som sa výborne bavila a pri knižke strávila príjemný čas...
I re-read this book and had forgotten how funny it is. It's also easy to read and engrossing, as are all of the Meg Cabot books I have read.I definitely recommend this to anyone (probably women) who want a good book to read.
Poprvé čteno v angličtině...Porduhé přečteno v češtině. Je to pořád stejná Meg Cabot, perfektní kniha na odreagování.
It hurts me to not finish this book. Meg Cabot is one of my favorite authors, mostly for the super cute Princess Diary series. But this book fell flat from the beginning for me. The characters were annoying and stereotypical, the romance was cheesy and the whole thing read like a try hard-romcom for me. When the two main characters annoy you too much, it's hard to care about what happens to them.
Ich konnte das Buch einfach nicht beenden. Lou ist so unerträglich, so neidisch, so kindisch. Ugh.
PROS: - Easy read.- Raunchy sex.- Great premise.CONS: - Fatphobia.- Repetition, repetition, repetition!- Non-fluid writing.- Odd character development.- Poor plot pacing.- Jack is a jackass (pun intended).- Unoriginal and unbelievable.- Stick to reading the back of the book; it's better than the actual novel.COMMENTS: I haven't read a lot of Cabot's stuff compared to other people but they're usually enjoyable.
I resisted the urge to throw the book across the room because it was so repetitive.I also felt like the characters were flat, especially the minor characters.
It felt like Cabot was just filling space with repetition and rambling.I mentioned that Jack was a jackass.
Picked up a romance after ages. This one takes every single cliche in the romance writer's arsenal and makes it the reason we love some tropes! It is delightful and Oh, also pretty sizzling by Meg Cabot's standards. Delicious!
I do find Meg Cabot's work, as others of noted, varies widely across the spectrum of good to bad depending on which book you pick up.
I know what I want when I pick up a Meg Cabot book and it is frustrating when it disappoints.
The book devolves into silliness rather quickly.
Yes, there is the inevitable romance between our two characters, but it happens while they are bizarrely and unrealistically chased through the Alaskan wilderness by unknown strangers trying to kill them.
So safe to say I didn't enjoy this edition of Meg Cabot fiction.
I was an 8th grader then, and my cousin just waved me "Just don't let your parents know," while reading other books.And that was how I found my first adult novel.Sure, it was trashy and a bit too fantastic for a chic-lit.
I still like it hahahaBut while I understand why parents won't let their children read this, I think (after years of reading adult books now) this kind of book is definitely a safer starter for reader who wants to try reading a sexier romance book.
He'll, even some of YA labeled books are way bolder than this book.For the review of the book itself let me tell you: I can't not love anything wrote by Meg Cabot.
Cresci lendo o Diário da Princesa (é uma série que volta e meia eu releio e me divirto) e adoro a série da Heather Wells e seus cozy mysteries.Mas às vezes Meg Cabot erra a mão.
E "Ela foi até o fim" foi uma dessas vezes.Toda vez que Jack comentava como Lou era um floquinho de neve especial -como ela não era como """as outras mulheres que ele conhecia"""- um dos meus neurônios morria, então eu parei para não sofrer sequelas.
Sem falar quando Jack comentava como ele não é como seus colegas atores superficiais.
...Quase.Sem falar no mistério de quem estava querendo matar Jack.
The characters were engaging and captivating and I fell in love right along with them.
Given the circumstances of the tragedy in the book and that Lou and jack had a prior relationship (the hate in the love-hate) I can go for the falling in love over a 3-4 day span, but "Mr. I never want to settle down" wants to marry her in that same time frame, and the super logical level-headed Lou agrees?
I love that they ended up married and that they both took risks against their past character and it worked, but the express route always kind of ruins it for me.
I think I'll just stick to reading the back of the book.
There was very little suspense, and the rest seemed like 'fluff'.
When you think the characters will have to face a challenge it's like the 'easy way out' is just handed to them.
Like when they are chased and, oh look!
An abandoned Ranger's station!
And then a little more chasing, and Oh look!
Yeah right!
Like you'd just happen to stumble upon them after very little walking.
It was all WAY over explained.
Okay I get that they hate each other and are stuck in the wilderness together.
I was convinced I would really like this book based on the description; it had all the makings for a great story: 1) You have your love/hate relationship which promises for alot of heated sexual tension, not to mention potential for sarcastic witty banter.2) An appealing plot of overcoming extreme obstacles while being stranded in the wilderness with an extremely hot guy (which brings me to #3)3) An extremely hot (hard bodied, playboy, action movie star)guy!I was so disappointed.
They just happened to stumble across everything they needed; making it seem more like a bad camping trip.
Everything happened way too fast, the romance, the relationship.
Personal Response-I really enjoyed the book 'She Went All the Way' because it was adventurous, romantic, and funny at the same time.
After swearing she would never date an actor again, she gets into a helicopter crash in the frozen tundra with one that she hates, and her adventure starts.
Is it too late for them in the cold Alaskan weather?Recommendations-I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in romance or adventure.
This book is a great read for teen girls and young adults.
This book was a funny read and I think people would enjoy it, no matter what gender.
Aku baca bukunya tapi bukan dengan cover yang ini, tapi covernya gambar Lou Calabrise.
However nih buku ceritanya bagus banget, gak cuma romantis-romantisan ala novel2 cewek dewasa, tapi ada adventure-nya, ada action-nya, dan yang pasti banyak celetukan2 lucu.
Lou digambarkan sebagai cewek mandiri, berani dan pinter (pastinya...), dia seorang penulis skenario film yang setia setengah mati sama cowoknya yang akhirnya ninggalin dia.
seru kan, dan yang bikin tambah seru, si Lou ini bukannya jadi cewek yang cuma ketakutan dan berlindung di belakang jack.
Tapi dia tetep berdiri sendiri, dan dia bahkan yang menggunakan pistol untuk ngebunuh para penjahat itu.
^_^ Baca deh, nih buku bagus banget soalnya...
I liked it but I felt the relationship between Lou and Jack was too rushed.
I mean, they got married so soon afterwards.
:\ Sure they've been through a lot together but they weren't in a relationship.
They had lots of sexual tension but sexual isn't the same as love.
The intense scenes were hot and steamy but the story seemed too far-fetched to me.
I did enjoy reading it though, it's great if you're in need of some adventure and romance.
I was a little iffy with Eleanor and Frank's relationship though.
All-in-all, it was alright.
Nothing I'd reread though.
Was Meg Cabot 12 when she wrote this?
It reads like a 12 year old's version of a love story.
That makes me love her.Her: OOOOO!
He's so dreamy, but I still hate him.Him: I've been with hundreds of beautiful women who love me.
But she hates me, so I choose her.If that didn't turn your stomach, try reading a few hundred pages of this, then let me know how you are feeling.
If you still feel OK, then you probably are 12.If you want light, fun, Meg Cabot reading, then stick with her Queen of Babble books.
DNF at 25%. i know that these books are lighthearted. Authenticity is not on the to-do list. But Lou's reaction to a helicopter crash was ludicrous. And it made her both annoying and unlikable. Disappointed to let this one go - but we're not going to overcome that last scene. (On a related note - Richard Russo is not the book you want to read along with anything else. He's making a mockery of other books - without effort.)
