https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71465.The_Rebels
A group of five young men are rebelling against school, against their fathers and against their upcoming draft into the fighting for WW I.
They steal from the family till at the shop; they steal household goods and pawn them; they steal from mothers and grandmothers.The on-going war is another theme most elegantly expressed by how the bodies of the dead are returned by train to the town.
In the early days the trains were met by a town political committee with speeches, a women’s group, religious leaders and a band playing the national anthem.
Now the trains are met by two men with a donkey cart.to carry away the body.
What I'm finding, though, is that reading novels from authors in other countries unearths a richer understanding, at least for me.'The Rebels' is about a group of four students in Hungary in 1918.
He was currently examining a row of Cabbage Whites through his magnifying glass, taking great care over the process.
The solicitor had been a lepidopterist for seventy years now: you could see him in the warm seasons of each year at the edge of town, his white beard swaying, the long tails of his frock coat floating behind him as he skipped over furrowed fields holding his net aloft, chasing butterflies.I read those, stopped, and read and re-read them again and again.
Master of the passions, in this novel Sándor Márai dedicates itself not to the love triangles, but to other issues equally susceptible of arousing strong emotions: what unites a group of young rebels against everything and everything arranged.And he risks taking the reader to the center of a plot of errors and furies, cumplicities and betrayals, suffering and repulses.
A ausência dos pais que partiram para a guerra corresponde à sua incapacidade de encontrar um lugar no mundo.
Eles combatem numa Guerra Mundial e os jovens sonham um mundo impossível.
Embriagam-se numa obstinação sem objectivo.
Há que crescer.
Há que partir para a guerra.
Há que rebelar-se.Os homens que não partiram ou os que regressaram da guerra são os mutilados mental e fisicamente.
Os que se instalam nas suas vidas.
O nonsense de uma vida sem rumo clama pelo sacrifício.
E que importa a morte ou a vida quando se habita nas águas turvas e agitadas que desabam do céu?
Perché qui posso violare quella che è la loro legge".I ribelli è il terzo romanzo di Marai che leggo, dopo Le braci e Liberazione.In ognuno di questi romanzi, si nota l'eleganza, l'essenzialità, ma anche la semplicità delle parole di questo scrittore.I ribelli sono un gruppo di giovani o meglio la banda, come amano definirsi, nell'Ungheria del 1918, che si ribellano a tutto ciò che i loro padri hanno impartito loro.
Sono giovani che non amano la disciplina, la rifuggono, che vivono in un loro mondo, giovani senza mentori, senza figure che possano indicargli la via e il modo più adatto per vivere.
Denn die übliche Kompensationsethik für das Dritte Reich und jene sich daraus ergebende Poetik, die in so gut wie jeder Tatortfolge vorgeführt wird, funktioniert hier nicht: In Die jungen Rebellen sind nicht die Nazis oder andere Rechtsausleger die Kinderschänder und alle Verfolgten des Hitlerregimes automatisch die Guten, der Roman entstand 1930 und schildert eine Welt von Gestern, in der nur Erwachsene etwas zählten.Erwachsene, die sich in den Augen der Jugend, schon vor dem Weltkrieg und erst recht danach, aus komplett unglaubwürdig erwiesen hatten.
That said, it was an excellently-written uncomfortable read.The story follows a group of 17-year-old boys living in Hungary during the middle of the First World War. They are just finishing school and are imminently faced with either conscription or more-or-less forced enlistment into the army.
Their fathers have been off to war for years, and one of the boy's brothers returns just before the start of the story minus an arm and with a serious case of PTSD, and joins their little gang.
The real point to the story, as I read it, is that these boys are quite simply going crazy from the piled on stresses of the war.
Com a aproximação da idade adulta, o que quer que fosse que unia estes miúdos parece estar a desaparecer, o bando parece não fazer mais sentido e o destino diferente que se adivinha para cada um deles parece provocar algum desconforto, alguns segredos são desvendados e, o mais provável é que o mal que foi feito não poderá ser remediado.Gostava tanto de não ter achado este livro esquisito e confuso...
No por el libro mismo, que es breve, y escrito de una manera perfecta, se lee rápido.
Ernö, con el rencor de ser quien es y venir de donde viene, enfrentado con el cariño que le tiene a su padre y a lo que éste significa; Tibor, odiando lo que en él otros admiran y huyendo hacia la guerra y, eventualmente, la muerte; Ábel, rebelándose ante un padre ausente y una tía triste y fracasada, y por lo mismo rechazando a la copia de ellos en la que se está convirtiendo; y Bélas, despreciando la comodidad de ser un niño rico y despilfarrando su futuro.
Este autor revelou-se logo como sendo um dos meus favoritos, pela sua obra intitulada As Velas Ardem Até Ao Fim, que me marcou de uma forma inexplicável.
Como já há algum tempo não pegava numa obra do autor, decidi matar saudades com este Rebeldes, que fala sobre um grupo de jovens que se encontram naquela idade entre o ser deixar de ser criança e passar a ser adulto, que é declaradamente uma fase de rebeldia.
Não existe dúvida nenhuma de que esta obra é uma delícia em termos de escrita - a escrita do autor é fabulosa e tem muito potencial para encantar os leitores (nem todos é certo).
Cuando se acerca el fin de la Gran Guerra, cuatro muchachos que viven en una anónima ciudad del Imperio Austrohúngaro están a punto de terminar su educación en el Liceo y de entrar en el momento de poder ser llamados a filas (excepto uno de ellos, no apto para el servicio de armas) para luchar en una guerra que al principio era muy lejana y ahora ya deja huellas de varios tipos en su entorno.
Los muchachos comienzan a llevar a cabo pequeñas acciones de rebeldía que, cuando conocen a un peculiar actor que llega a la ciudad para trabajar en el teatro, comienzan a transformarse en algo más.
This remarkable novel, over 80 years old now but not available in English until 2007, explores the interactions of a group of friends in their last year of school in 1918, expecting shortly after graduation to be drafted into the war. Their small city more or less devoid of father figures for them, they rebel against the authority of school, the empire, tradition. Stately and relatively "traditional" in its narrative style, its content is certainly far less predictable and conventional. Powerful, insightful, humane.
Although 3 stars says I liked it, I didn't.
But the writing is at least 3 stars if not more.
Marai keeps me turning the pages with his writing.
Written in 1930, the story follows a small group of Hungarian teens who bond together over their fear of the future, the future that involves going into the Army and serving at the front in WW1.
They rebel against their coming adulthood and involvement in war, but unable to come to grips with that reality, they rebel against the authority of school, family & societal norms.
In "The Rebels" a solid story construction and a sober but sharp style serve a below-the-surface exploration of human existence and experience.
But also classic in the sense that emotion and reason seem to be in balance.A group of young men at the time of their graduation in 1918 are confronted with the fact that they will be entering adult life soon.
At the same time the apparent impossibility of constructing true human relationships - a theme that I found also in "Embers"- seems to be at the core of this novel.
One assumes that the character of Abel is the most closely identified with the author in what is at least partly an autobiographical novel.
Some of the characters are utter stereotypes, and there is a considerable amount of antisemitism, as in the portrayals of the actor and, especially, the rapacious pawnbroker Havas, who must have his, not one, but "two pounds of flesh!" Puh-leeze.
Yet even the evil and monstrous Havas is not utterly unsympathetic; we feel for his humiliation and isolation, even as we do for Shakespeare's Shylock, with whom I'll wager Marai was acquainted, even if only in translation.If you haven't read this author yet, try his novel Embers first.
I padri sono tutti assenti, figure che, già inamidate nei ruoli così stringenti all'epoca, sono diventate quasi dei miti a causa dell'assenza, creature stereotipate delle quali avere paura e dalle quali aspettarsi solo un giudizio, normalmente negativo.
Alle Väter sind abwesend, Figuren, die schon in den damals so strengen Rollen gestärkt sind, die durch Abwesenheit fast schon zu Mythen geworden sind, stereotype Kreaturen, vor denen man Angst hat und von denen man nur ein Urteil erwartet, das normalerweise negativ ist.
Ein wahrer Formationsroman, in vielerlei Hinsicht autobiographisch, der die Schrecken einer Gesellschaft, die starren Rollen unterworfen ist und dem Krieg beraubt ist, deutlich zeigt.
His writing is so evocative that every story I've read of his really comes to life on the page - and The Rebels is no exception.This was a great story that captured both the period setting and that moment when one ceases to be a child and becomes an adult.
The boys in the gang are all so distinct and yet eerily the same and the reader can feel the fragility of their bond throughout the book.I've read four of his books now, but sadly there are only two more left for me to read in English.
It was good and clearly a Sándor Márai book, but after reading the brilliant Embers I couldn't give it more than that.
It was a good reading, allthough kinda uncomfortable, morbid and depressive.
It's set in Hungary during the WWI and it's sad and beautiful, but there is something I don't quite know what it is that's missing.This book isn't just about teenage boys being rebel, it goes deeper than that.
It's the psychological side of the book that matters the most, what you read in those boys action and the reasons why they're doing it.
Great job, Márai.
I have a soft spot for East European writers and Sandor Marai's Embers was wonderful. This did not hit me in quite the same way but it was nevertheless a very welcome find in a second hand shop. Rebels tells the story of 4 young men, on the cusp of adulthood, passing out from education and entering, with all probability, WWI. The four band together and think of the worst things they can do to rebel against parents, teachers and other adults in authority. The tragic ending comes as no surprise.
One of the things that I read in the biography of the author in the beginning of my book was that the native form of his personal name is Márai Sándor but the Western name order is Sándor Márai.
Abel's father, the town doctor isn't in the novel because he is away fighting in the war.
Also a rather creepy 45 year old actor spends way too much time with them, although I just can't think of this guy as a member of the gang.
The book's tension is built on the utterly foreseeable explosion of the make-believe world in which these boys have paradoxically chosen to withdraw while at the same time yearning to be free of each other and to fight the more brutal but less treacherous battles of the real war outside.
The atmosphere of menace pervading the book culminates in a claustrophobic scene where Havas, on a stormy day, reveals himself to Tibor and Abel, whose reputation he claims to hold in his hands.
A very perceptive book about teenagers adrift in a world where most of the adults not at the front are misfits or perverts.
In het interrim tussen hun bestaan als student en als volwassene besluiten ze een eigen wereld in te richten waar de regels van de volwassenen niet gelden: “’Wij zijn een bende, meneer, we hebben niets te maken met wat de volwassenen doen en zijn daar niet verantwoordelijk voor’.
‘Nee, natuurlijk niet, dan worden we zelf ook verantwoordelijk, maar voor het zover is, heb ik niets met de regels en wetten van uw wereld te maken’.
‘’Wij zijn hier omdat we hier niets met uw wereld te maken hebbe’, zei Abel.
This book by the Hungarian author, Sandor Marai, was originally published in 1930 and later translated.
It is a haunting story of a group of young boys who are waiting to graduate before having to join the war.
They form a secret group playing cards, drinking and smoking but soon things get out of hand and they start stealing and hoarding their loot.
They link up with an actor and start dressing up and play at acting.
The boys are confused about life, their parents and the world; they rebel about all that is familiar to them.
They finally break up and the book ends on a sad note.
Wat een deceptie.Na het lezen van Márai's boek 'Gloed' was ik benieuwd naar de rest van zijn oeuvre. Volgens Marai zelf was 'De opstandigen' zijn beste boek. Echter, ik heb dit boek met moeite uitgelezen. Het is enorm teleurstellend. Onnodig langdradig, veel narratieve elementen en sub-plots sluiten niet op elkaar aan, inconsequenties omtrent tijd verwijzingen en een rommelig einde. De bende jongelingen doet zich meermaals te goed aan alcoholica. Het lijkt erop dat er bij het schrijven ook het een en ander genuttigd is.2*
O Márai deve ter tido uma adolescência horrível: tudo cheira azedo, ninguém se diverte, muita energia reprimida e GUERRA. Até agora, gostei mais da escrita dele em romances mais curtos com um só arco principal — esse é uma leitura um pouco mais vagarosa é deprimente. Mas tem umas passagens muito bonitas e ele transmite muito bem a situação sem saída dos personagens.
maybe because of never having been a boy??Marai has a habit [in all his books] of occasionally going on and on about one particular aspect of one particular person, getting repetitive.
And some of the things described do not happen to interest me so I skip through those bits as well.But Marai really is skilled in drawing a portrait of a person -- several persons, in this book.
The colonel's wife is an example of one who was described in too repetitive a way [for my taste] and that got on my nerves.
Over jongens, die tegen hun eindexamen van de middelbare school aanhangen.
Maar ook omdat er een sfeer beschreven wordt die nu haast niet meer voor te stellen is.
De hedendaagse jeugd kan er mogelijk met hun verstand niet meer bij.
Ik denk alleen dat ze er ook geen interesse voor kunnen opbrengen, laat staan geduld hebben om het boek te lezen.
Ook al ziet onze wereld van nu er evenmin erg rooskleurig uit en mogelijk nog uitzichtlozer.
Maar die vallen niet hun ouders of, althans niet hier.Het boek is goed geschreven.
Het geeft een kijkje in die tijd.
Ik werd er alleen niet vrolijk van.
Um livro a sério, que se adora num dia e se detesta no outro, que nos explica, através da história do bando, um grupo de 4 adolescentes que se rebelam contra o mundo, as estruturas de superioridade, contra o facto de terem de combater uma guerra, a 1ª guerra mundial, que não foi criada por eles, contra o facto de terem que ter um emprego e se conformarem na sua situação inamovível até à morte, o processo da criação do adulto através da destruição dos ideais da adolescência.
It's an old-fashioned sort of yarn, written in the 1930's by an Hungarian author.
I've read that the first book in the series, Embers, is terrific so I'll be onto that next.
The same for Portraits of Marriage by the same author which I'm currently reading (the book store was out of Embers and this was all that was there by the author)...Portraits is terrific, despite the mediocre reviews here on Goodreads.
It is an old-fashioned yarn and you have to keep that in perspective.
For Marai friendship and betrayal are predominant -- also class tensions, military, and war.This story is pretty wild.
It's about a group of young men during WWI.
They steal, drink, and whisper in secret and dress up and more.Marai does a great of portraying the fear and tension the young men feel and their raw inability to cope with the foreboding of going to war and they way they cope is sad, bizarre, uncomfortable.
It's an early novel for Marai, and I felt like he was trying things out.
