https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1420743.Sue_Barton_Senior_Nurse
This book hammers home just how young Sue is.
I love her experiences in the operating room - that she isn't as good as she expects to be, until she comes across a person she can help - and her relationship skills are terrible, but relatable nonetheless.
It's the asides that make this book, though: the parents who don't want their child - Connie going for anesthetics but giving everything up as a given when she gets married, frustrating Sue - Sue wanting a career before she gets married - Miss Cameron -Sometimes I find myself weirdly emotional in parts.
Always in the same parts, too.
Likewise Sue's wishes of "oh, can't we just be good friends like we've always been," are a bit tiresome, hearkening back as they do to an earlier more old fashioned style of series fiction in which the heroine lives in such a bubble of innocence and purity that the thought of marriage with a male companion simply never crosses her mind (and of course in this sort of fictional world female desire does not exist).
The part of the book that I now look at with a much different perspective than I did as a child is naturally enough Sue's stint in a maternity hospital, which just boggled my mind this time around -- mothers being separated from their babies for something like three days after birth!
I love these characters so much. I loved the nursing experiences in the different wards, too, and seeing how Sue and co grew from their first year. It made me sad that Sue was so frustrated that the training was wasted on Connie, and that, really, it was. Relatedly, ugh, Bill. Boring. I think Visiting Nurse remains my favorite of the series.
Not as good as "Student Nurse," but still an enjoyable read with more fun information on nursing in the 1930s. I loved reading about those truckloads of babies being carted around the hospital! I can't wait to read about Sue's experience with the Henry Street Settlement, but until I can find that book, I'm off to see how Cherry Ames has held up after all these years.
Sue Barton was fictional. I admired Clara Barton and Florence Nigtengale, but Sue was a [in the 60's:] a modern day nurse.
This book gives a delightful view of a bygone era. I highly recommend this series for all ages.An interesting bit of trivia......Helen Boylston was living with Laura Ingalls Wilder while writing some of the Sue Barton books. Helen and Rose Wilder were friends.
For instance, it's clear that infant care is very different today than it was in 1937.I know this type of story isn't meant to be over-thought, but it did seem a little sudden for Bill to ask Sue to marry him, considering they had never even formally dated.
It sounds like it would be so much fun, and I imagine Sue's, Connie's, and Kit's gowns as being right out of a 1930's movie!I'm still a bit confused about the differences between house officers and interns (or "internes" as the book spells it).
He's mentioned twice in the book, on pp.
Book Two sees Sue, Kit, Connie and the gang back on the wards.
George seems to drive a wedge between Bill and Sue, and the nurses start to think about the next stage of their career as graduation approaches.There was a lot of humour in this book.
They both need to TALK to each other instead of saying nothing and letting problems brew between them!I enjoy the fun and problems that the nurses experience on the hospital wards so I'm wondering how I'm going to like the next few books as the girls take their experiences out into the real world, starting as visiting nurses in New York.
A series of books I loved as a kid that was challenged to read again. Enjoyed them just as much this time around.
A short enough book to usually read in one sitting. It's not as good as the first one, as there are fewer hospital anecdotes in this one, and some of the anecdotes are somewhat exaggerated - Sue is an angel, Sue saves the day, Sue never does anything wrong ... in short, Sue is a Mary-Sue! ;)I still like it in spite of its flaws though :)
Not my favorite of the books, although more because there are certain elements of the plot line that annoy me, although they accurately reflect theories at the time. The action starts to pick up with the next book; this volume has always felt like a place holder to me, one that that was necessary to cover future plot points, but not there for much more than setting up the next books.
Romance, schmomance. That part did little for me, but watching Sue progress through school was fantastic. Loved reading about the maternity hospital and was gleeful during the Miss Taffereau section.
For some reason this book isn't quite up to the standards of nr. 1. Perhaps it is because the love stories takes up some space, but also the actual nursing descriptions seem more superficial. But don't misunderstand me, it is still a great book.
Second book in the series and just as enjoyable as the first. It's sad that women back in the 30s had to choose between a career in nursing and marriage.
This book was published in 1937 originally, so it was already old when I read the series the first time.
Though I don't remember specifics, I do remember liking the series and wanting to become a nurse at the time.
After having re-read the first in the series, I'm wondering what exactly appealed to me about the profession.
Nurses in 1937 were not the independent, critical-thinking, medical professionals of today.
The book should be a good trip back in time as Shelly embarks on the future of nursing.ROFL at parts.
Hilarious to think how medical care used to be given!
Piger i hvidt er en skøn forsættelse af Piger i Blåt. Jeg har læst den et utal af gange, ligesom min mor har, mit eksemplar er ved at falde fra hinanden, men alligevel kan jeg ikke ligge bogen fra mig. Jeg læste den i et køre, og får et smil på læben.
Another entertaining tale of hospital life, with the lightest of romances and plenty of human interest. I particularly enjoy Sue finding out that the operating theatre isn't for her, and Sue learning how to manage a ward.
This is part of a series of books about Sue Barton, from nursing school to various jobs she gets after school. When I was in junior high, I read many books in the series. This series was written in the '30's so it is pretty dated, but when I read them originally I loved them.
Too much farce for me to really want to keep reading the series, but I still like the nursing parts.
I'm hoping it is a good book. Cross your fingers.
This was so nice and refreshing to read.
