https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68396.The_Halfling_s_Gem
I can't even begin to explain how much I love these books and characters ❤My wonderful Wulfgar ❤The sharp tounged and awesome Bruenor Battleaxe ❤The lovely and bad to the bone Cattie-Brie ❤I didn't add Regis but I love him too. 😊These friends do everything for each other, even die if they have to and I never want to see that day come 😫The ending was so sweet. Wulfgar and Cattie-Brie. Bruenor ruling over his home again. And we shall see with Drittz, he's never sits long and he has his own thought
I can't even begin to explain how much I love these books and characters ❤️My wonderful Wulfgar ❤️The sharp tounged and awesome Bruenor Battleaxe ❤️The lovely and bad to the bone Cattie-Brie ❤️I didn't add Regis but I love him too.
Bruenor and Cattie-Brie are riding a fiery chariot through the sky to quickly get to their friends and help.
The silver dragon rolled over onto its back lazily, riding the morning winds with its legs-all four- crossed over it and its sleepy eyes half closed.
Thinking the flames to be the forerunning fires of an evil red dragon, the silver swooped around into a high cloud and poised to ambush the thing.
I'll write a full review when I have the time, but for now, here's...DAVE'S FINAL JUDGMENT -  THE DEFENSE  - Salvatore once again proves that he's one of the best at describing action sequences - Lightning quick pace and non-stop action ensures Salvatore has many opportunities to prove the above claim - While Drizzt may be the star of the show, Bruenor, Wulfgar, Regis, and especially Cattie-Brie are all given their moments to shine - Features more originality than the previous books of The Icewi
- Salvatore once again proves that he's one of the best at describing action sequences - Lightning quick pace and non-stop action ensures Salvatore has many opportunities to prove the above claim - While Drizzt may be the star of the show, Bruenor, Wulfgar, Regis, and especially Cattie-Brie are all given their moments to shine - Features more originality than the previous books of The Icewind Dale Trilogy - Artemis constantly reminds us why he's one of the most popular villains in the Forgotten Realms
This book has much in common with a really good action movie.
There was no romance in previous books between Drizzt and Catti-brie but here it is as though we are expected to believe it could've happened.
The woman screams hypocrite every move she makes.She's gets her own paragraph for this one: In one battle scene Catti-brie and Bruenor rush to the aid of Drizzt and Wulfgar while they battle pirates.
Then in the next fight scene she's involved in Catti-brie picks off bandits with her little bow like she's shooting cans in the backyard.
Made even worse by a line later in the book stated by Bruenor: "But it was Catti-brie, his beautiful daughter, who truly abhorred killing with all of her heart,".
En el riesgo que se corre al leer una novela del género fantástico escrita hace tanto tiempo, en que aún se nota una fuertísima influencia del universo de Tolkien y, por ende, a pesar de ser una lectura que se disfruta mucho, no ofrece nada nuevo y la línea argumental es absolutamente previsible.
En los más de veinticinco años desde la primera edición de este libro, el género fantástico ha evolucionado mucho, con historias más oscuras y giros argumentales impactantes, por lo que las novelas de Salvatore se sienten casi como lectura para niños.
4-4.25/5
For the first time in six books, I can see why people like R.A. Salvatore's Dark Elf series.
I still don't like them myself, but The Halfling's Gem isn't completely without merit.I see that the series' greatest appeal must come from the obligatory and breathless battle sequences -- and those can be kind of entertaining.
Or then there is Breunor and his disgust with thieves, and his thoughts about the chest in Mithral Hall that is reserved for the hands of thieves, all the while ignoring the fact that Regis, the halfling he has slaughtered countless victims to "save," is a master thief.
This one was a little disappointing in comparison to the others.
Once again the intrepid, unusual friends of R.A. Salvatore's imagination ride out on another exciting adventure, leaving the familiar world of Icewind Dale behind for the Sword Coast, from Waterdeep to Baulder's Gate, to Calimport to save the lovable but thieving halfling, Regis.
Regis was taken away by the assassin Artemis Entereri in the last book for a debt owed to a powerful guildmaster, Pasha Pook.There are host of battles, as always, sea battles, spider creatures, wererats, demodand's from another astral plane.Drizzt leads the way but can't do it alone.
Being a fan of R.A. Salvatore's work, especially the drow elf Drizzt, I felt this edition lived up to all the intrigue and adventure of the other volumes.
Oh boy, oh boy, was this a read.
This book tells the tale of the companions running to the ends of the realm, trying to rescue Regis and Guenhwyvar from the assassin Artemis Entreri.
The plot, as is sounds, is pretty straight forward but it still didn't disappoint at all.
It was so full of suspense that you just can't put the book down.
And the action!
I thought this was so action packed, it would fill three other books with enough.
What a great end to an amazing trilogy and I definitely recommend this to all readers.
A great adventure. A great balance of humor and action. I think this is the best of the trilogy. -There is a shift, tonally, in RA Salvatore's writing style that I really enjoyed. Better sentence structure, more enhanced and descriptive battle scenes, but not hard to follow.-Getting to see the realms was a pleasure. Waterdeep, Baldur's Gate and Calimsham!-This book was number 12 on the New York Times bestseller list at it's release. I imagine that sealed the deal for RA's writing career and legitimized TSR as a book publisher as well.
Tatmin olmadım diyemem. Bunda, aynı kurguda okunabilecek daha çok kitap ve serinin olmasının da etkisi var tabi.
Filled with tons of narrow escapes and convenient encounters.The Companions of the Hall: Drizzt, the dark elf; Wulfgar, the Barbarian, Bruenor, the Dwarf; and Cattie-Brie, the human adopted daughter of Bruenor, aren't supposedly invincible, but upon reading the book it's quite apparent that they are.
The deeper layer amid all of the fighting and travelling is Drizzt's struggle with his identity, as he finds an item that allows himself to be disguised and walk among the surface world unmolested.The personal conflict between Drizzt and his archenemy, Artemis Entreri, comes to a head as they face-off again to determine whose values make one a better fighter; the cold, calculating assassin, or the passionate, caring dark elf.
There is some humor, finally, though I am not sure if it's intentional.Drizzt shows some depth beyond being badass, and it was interesting to see Cattie-Brie touch on the source of his tension and hound-like obsession with Artemis.
On the other hand, this message would have been much, much more effective if Cattie-Brie didn't slaughter swathes of humans all the damn time.
The supposedly good Drizzt and Wulfgar gleefully sack the treasure trove of a harmless ghost, Bruenor hates all thieves, except Regis, and Cattie-Brie, who suddenly becomes the world's best archer, hates killing but does it anyway.
I mean, who wants an imaginary Halfling in their head who looks like Regis Philbin with furry feet?There’s plenty of good action in this installment, several lost-and-found characters, plus incredible imaginary beasts.
This requires the reader to back up and to try again to wrest the sense from them, not just once or twice, but repeatedly.The obvious “be who you are and don’t mind other people’s opinions” message of Drizzt is a positive one for the age group that this series seems to be aimed at, namely the high school/young adult crowd.Book 253 in my Science Fiction and Fantasy Reading Project.
now, I've a weak spot in my heart for fantasy novels.
I know that they don't have to be masterful works of modern literature.
I know what they do and totally digg it.
This book ( and the entire drizzt series/ stories) is one of the worst books I've read since "bridge to teribithia 3".
Reading ( later skipping) excerpts of a protagonists diary that are self serving, pretentious as a 15 year old's blog is horrendously painful.
It's hard to get attached for anyone in the book, when you know that they will always be ok.
This was the conclusion of the Icewind Dale trilogy and it was a real questing book. Lots of intermediary quests to reach the ultimate quest - saving Regis. The one part of this that I found confusing was the sort of quick conclusion of taking back Bruenor's ancestral home. This final battle was put into an epilogue. There was more story here that I wish were played out but I guess there was a limit by either the publisher or the author on how much tale to tell. All in all, a very fine trilogy.
I first read this in the summer before 8th grade. I sat outside on my mom's chair in the shade under the trees and read almost all of it in one day. I finished off the rest of it the next day and got into a good habit of completing Salvatore books quickly.This is one of my favorite fantasy series and I like to read it again every few years. Check it out!
I don't like Regis. He's a thief and lazy.
Seriyi yorumlarken sık sık dediğim gibi yazar hep bu türe ait ögelerden, daha önce bir çok kez karşılaştığımız ögelerden yararlanıyor ancak bunu öyle güzel yapıyor ki klişelerde boğulan bir seri değil de klasikleşmeyi hak eden bir seri okuduğunuz hissini veriyor.
Özellikle de karakterleri iyi ve tutarlı bir biçimde kurgulayıp bunu okura da yansıtarak seriyi karakterlerle güçlendiriyor ve hikayeyi de güzel kurgulayınca ortaya çıkan sonucun iyi olması kaçınılmaz.İtiraf etmeliyim ki seriden bitirdiğim her kitaptan sonra bu seriyi bana sevdiren ve devam etmemi sağlayan ne merak ediyorum, çünkü seri yepyeni şeyler okuyor hissi vermiyor daha ziyade eskiden çok sevdiğim bir ortama yeniden giriyormuşum gibi hissettiriyor.
See review on The Crystal Shard - Icewind Dale 1, Drizzt 6. This one is near and dear to me because it introduces Artemis Entreri, the human assassin counterpart to Drizzt himself. Just Google Artemis, he's so good. One of the best in the series.
Here, Drizzt is still the central character, but he settles nicely at the same time into an ensemble.
While Drizzt is an interesting character because he subverts normal fantasy hero roles, the others are solid, but are much more true to type and stereotype for the different fantasy races and classes.
In contrast to his friends, Drizzt subverts the whole concept of race defining fantasy characters, which is what makes him original and interesting.
However, Drizzt settles very nicely into his role as a philosopher hero.
This character complexity is surely what has led him to be dubbed "One of the most beloved characters in all of fantasy."
Drizzt is probably the only one that comes close to walking a fine line between light and dark, but that's not enough to make it count.
Oh, and let's not forget that the previous novel will always prelude what will happen next, so this way you 'can't wait to read the next book.' Nope, not me.
I'll probably still read the Dark Elf saga (mostly because my boyfriend vouches for it with all his heart), but I don't think I'll do much more than that.
While this is entertaining, I think I'll stick with my more modern-phrased high-fantasy.
It just feels like the main characters are going through the motions of their adventure in a sparsely painted backdrop.
R.A. Salvatore's stories don't feel like they are placed in a vibrant society or backdrop.
Instead, I get the impression that all the characters that Drizzt and friends interact with are hastily assembled actors.Reading the first six (of thirty-three) Drizzt book was an experience and gives me a bit more insight into the world of D&D and a connection with some of the other people in D&D groups.
However, there is a giant world of literature and history books out there drawing my attention instead.
It was an easy read and a great story that really got your mind engaged in the scenes Salvatore weaved.
To find out what rises and all the details of Drizzt's journey you will have to read this book for yourself though!I think that anyone interested in a fast-paced fantasy where the reading is easy but the story is rich will find this the perfect book.
Unlike many other great series out there this book is truly one for casual reading, one to pick up whenever you want a story and one that always gives you an enjoyable read.
Product Description Join Drizzt Do'Urden, the world's most famous drow elf, on his adventures in the Forgotten Realms!  Regis has fallen into the hands of the assassin Artmis Entreri, who is taking him to Calimport to deliver him into the clutches of the vile Pasha Pook. But Drizzt and Wulfgar are close on their heels, determined to save Regis from his own folly as much as from his powerful enemies.  About the Author R.A. Salvatore has spent so many years winding himself into fantasy worlds tha
Join Drizzt Do'Urden, the world's most famous drow elf, on his adventures in the Forgotten Realms!
But Drizzt and Wulfgar are close on their heels, determined to save Regis from his own folly as much as from his powerful enemies.
About the Author 
R.A. Salvatore has spent so many years winding himself into fantasy worlds that he's still trying to figure out how to unwind.
He is the author of more than forty novels and more than a dozen New York Times best sellers, including The Two Swords, which debuted at or near the top of many best seller lists.
The writing is more sound and the plotting is better (there are fewer "Random Encounters" in this one, which is one of my biggest problems with the previous two books), but it is still obvious that this is young writing.
The second half of the book is far stronger however, so to me this is about Salvatore figuring out how to plot out his books.
The reason is because the last quarter of the book is tight and fluid, where the beginning half has quite a bit that could be edited out, or plotted differently to make a better hook.
Note: once you get bitten by a wererat, you are no longer human (precisely), nor a person, and thus can be shot down without remorse.
At least, that's what I gathered when I read about Catti-Brie shooting down a human and feeling horribly sorry, but saw her killing wererats left and right without batting an eyelash.Oh, well.
Note to self: never get bitten by a wererat, and never become a gray dwarf.
Drizzt's monologues at the beginning of each part of the book are so out of character and naive that I think Wulfgar turns chronicler in his old age and starts writing what he *thinks* Drizzt might have been thinking.Otherwise, The Halfling's Gem was action-packed, occasionally exciting, generally fun, but not really special.
What stands out most in this final part of the Icewind Dale trilogy, is the lengths and strengths the main "good" characters go in order to save or avenge their love ones.
A mother lifting a wagon to save her baby would not be out a place in the book.The action scenes and the ending tension are still top notch.
Because the book is one action scene after another, is hard to put it down once you start reading.From sea to desert to urban environment to Hell itself, and back from the death!.
Entreri still stands out as the ultimate cool bad guy.
In this last installment of the Icewind Dale Trilogy, Drizzt and his friends race across the realm to try and recover their friend Regis from the clutches of the evil assasin, Artemis Enteri.
I didn't think it possible, but Salvatore is writing better and more detailed fight scenes with each new book in his Drizzt series!
And truly, this is the strength of these stories; his descriptive and action packed fight scenes.
And despite the fact that Catti-brie and Wulfgar are maried by the end of this book, I feel like the romantic tension between her and Drizzt to be fascinating!
Another great book in this wonderful fantasy series!
Overall Rating:4/5I enjoyed this book quite a lot!
The things that had annoyed me about The Crystal Shard and Streams of Silver were not nearly as apparent in this book, which made it far more enjoyable.
Salvatore definitely shows a lot of improvement in his writing.A fast pace and numerous fight scenes made this a quick read.
There isn't much character depth, and some of the characters are easily swayed by flimsy arguments, but what else do you expect from one of these books?I would've given this a 5/5, but in the last third of the book a lot of typographical errors seeped their way in to the print, which was pretty distracting.
