https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1939006.Lady_Rose_and_Mrs_Memmary
Candia McWilliam provides the foreword to this one and I highly recommend that you read it first, as it does set you up for what you will find in this charming, fairy-tale like book.
If you loved A Little Princess, and can enjoy it still, you will probably adore this book.There is more than one kind of high romanticism in this book, but the most noticeable is the deep lovely of country that Lady Rose has for Keepsfield in particular and Scotland in general.
Lady Rose, who has such a warm and loving nature, is described as untouched .
I was involved, and I cared, so very much.The visitors left, and Mrs Memmary was left in her beloved house.There was a gentle twist in the tale, that wasn’t entirely surprising but was entirely right, and the final words brought tears to my eyes.This is a beautiful, moving, romantic story, told by a consummate storyteller, and I am so pleased that I met Lady Rose, a heroine as lovely as any I have met in the pages of a Persephone book.
My love for Persephone seems to grow with every book from my collection that I read, and this has added to my admiration!Knew very little of this book before I picked it up so didn't know what to expect, and thoroughly enjoyed this charming tale of Lady Rose through the eyes of Mrs Memmary as she tells tales of the life and times of Lady Rose to some American tourists who are visiting the beautiful old home Keepsfield.
It's one of those books that, despite sometimes slightly too obviously praising Scotland and juxtaposing Edinburgh and London, give you a fuzzy feeling and a longing to see the places so vividly described in these pages.The narrative jumps back and forth between different stages of Lady Rose's life, and the housekeeper telling a visiting guest little stories about the inhabitants of the house.
It gives an interesting insight into the lives of the upper class at the end of the 19th and start of the 20th centuries, with many traditions still in place at that point.

It tells the story of Lady Rose, who is a very privileged child of the Scottish nobility, and how her life evolves.
There's a bit of a mystery (although I figured it out pretty quickly) and wonderful descriptions of Rose's magnificent home, Keepsfield.The book is written in a style that some might find overwrought; I thought it fit well with Rose's character (curious, enthusiastic, happy and in love with Scotland).
The plot moves along quickly and you want to keep reading to find out what happens to Lady Rose as she grows up.
I had heard of Persephone books, but I didn’t really know what they were until I listened to a podcast all about them.
The problem is that I’m currently living in Omaha, Nebraska and the books are published and sold in London, England.
It’s referred to as a love letter to Scotland.
Let me tell you, this book is the coziest, most delightful book you can read.
Lady Rose reminds me of the girl from Jessica’s Daily Affirmations- this girl just loves everything.
I'm already excited to pick out my next Persephone book.
Ruby Ferguson's writing style evokes the atmosphere of a fairy tale whilst talking about characters that are wholly realistic.
Keepfields, the house in which Lady Rose grows up, and the landscape around it becomes a character in its own right and is so much a part of the characters' lives that it is impossible to imagine this book set anywhere else.With charming illustrations and feminist themes, this is definitely a classic that more people need to be reading and talking about.
Ruby Ferguson manages to write in such a simple style that is so beautiful at points that I was rereading paragraphs.

This was perfect reading for a quiet Sunday afternoon. Persephone 53 is a charming grown up fairy tale. Lady Rose is a romantic, and she carries that romantism all her life, and it is this which shapes her destiny. This simple little novel also highlights quite tragically how inflexible and unforgiving was Victorian high society. This is also a novel about Scotland, Lady Rose is a proud and patriotoc Scot - and the novel allows us a teasing glimpse of some of the beauties of Scotland before the modern world came along and trampled all over them.
Dear Goodreads, Please keep all the cynical, unromantic, loveless reviews of this book at the bottom of the page.
What the cold reviews at the bottom of this page said was partially true, but not every book has to be The Great American (or European) Novel.
This book is a salute to the past and a love letter to Scotland, and a little bit of a tribute to youthfulness.
I identified with Helen Dacre: her appreciation for the dazzle of the glory days of Keepsfield and her reverence for its past reminded me why I am a student in the subject of history.
3.5 Stars.
This is an entertaining read, especially for anyone with a bit of a 'thing' for Scotland. https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2017/0...
Lady Rose is a lovely little girl who is charming and lovely despite her cold and uncaring parents who send her away to boarding school.
She finally gets what she deserves and falls in love with a new man.
Such is their love that it transcends the society that shuns them and they live happily ever after.
Or at least as happily ever after as you can hope for.It is emotional without being sentimental and sweet without being saccharine.
If you can make it through the last chapter of the book without getting a tear in your eye then you are a tougher person than I am.
Meh. Spotted the twist coming very early on. And for searing indictment of Victorian upper-class marriage market and conventions of appropriate behaviour, E M Delafield is so much better (and more cynical about All For Love, too).
I feel like a read two separate books.
The first half was this lovely story about a very charmed little girl and the hopes and dreams regarding her life.
Well written and very sweet.
About 2/3 of the way through the book there's a turn that might very well be an indicator of psychosis.
True love is sure important but the direction this book took was numbing.
I did love the little name spin near the end.
Made it almost worth the terrible turn, but not quite.
I loved this little gem of a story.
It begins almost like a fairy tale.
It is Lady Rose's sixth birthday.
She is a happy child, seeing the beauty and good in all around her.
She comes from a prominent, wealthy family.
She wants for nothing in her young life.
As the story progresses shades of darkness begin to creep in.
We start to understand what restrictions a young woman must live within during the mid 1800's.I especially loved young Lady Rose's encounter with Charles Kingsley and his book, The Water Babies.
It is one I haven't read and is now on my list to read soon.
Such a lovely story with a surprise at the end which I didn’t see coming.
3 1/2 stars. Would have liked more character development.
Liked this much more than I thought I would. The preface was off putting - so give that a miss.
This was my first Persephone book!
I found myself not wanting to put this book down, and although I guessed the small twist from the off, it didn’t take anything away from my enjoyment of the story at all.
It makes a change to see the darker side of high society and it certainly got me thinking about how even now, even in our own (lowlier) social circles, we are still all bound to a certain extent by convention and expectation.I enjoyed Lady Rose so much that I'm eager now to read more books I've never heard of, and more Persephones in particular.

Set in Scotland, the narrative shifts between the 1930s and the 1870s-80s, with an old lady called Mrs Memmary telling the story of Lady Rose Targenet to some casual visitors to the Targenet family home, now long vacant. Lady Rose shocked Scottish society in her day by giving up everything for a penniless man that she loved. The story is told well enough, but the characters are not very original. It was the evocation of life in 19th-century Scotland and the description of the Fife countryside that I really loved.
Not one of my favorite Persephone books. It was all too precious. Even the Bad Event that happened was precious. The characters, especially Rose, were stock. The Persephone sellers say that this was a great favorite of the Queen Mother, so now I know not to follow any of her literary suggestions. I did enjoy the Scottish element, though. And the plot moved along nicely.
The switching between past a present times was a little odd when I first started reading the book, but the transitions become smoother as the story goes along. I wasn't very into the story until halfway through when it completely captured me. I especially enjoyed reading about the landscapes of Scotland and how the city of Edinburgh looked during the 30s.
Persephone Press books are lovely to see! The end papers are carefully selected, usually decades old textile images and the covers are heavy papers, almost card stock, and solid colors. This press re-publishers books written by women in Britain. Each year more titles are added. I wish I could afford to have each new title mailed to me from London!
This was a charming book. So glad that Persephone decided to publish it. It is a very gentle story of It is set in Scotland and is the story of Lady Rose Targenet, who marries a man who owns an estate in Scotland,where they live in a palatial mansion. One day she meets a man on a park bench and her life changes forever.
A magical, enchanting tale with a rather tragical ending. Brings to life a part of 1800s historical England..............Queen Victoria, ladies in waiting, wealthy land owners and Lady Rose, the center of it all.
This underrated classic is a stunning, enchanting love letter to Scotland and I simply ADORED it. The writing was so gorgeous and fairytale-esque that I often found myself re-reading paragraphs. I can't wait to read this again and tab all my favorite sections.
A book that makes you feel like you've been transported back in time! I loved the characters, the story, and the framing device used here. There was a romance in the book that felt a bit odd and forced, and I never fully understood the main character's final motivations.
