https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6566531-a-society
In fact, the family-planning slogan of the Indian government during the late ’60s and ’70s was “Do ya teen bacche (Two or three children Hote hain ghar mein acche” Are best in a house).
Journalists here keep visiting factories, shops, slums, and ports to cover reports, mostly regarding corruption, production of fake goods, child labour and rise in diseases, especially among children and women.
Miss Woolf writes: "Why," we cried, "do men go to war?" "Sometimes for one reason, sometimes for another," she replied calmly.
"Every one of us knows how to read. But no one, has ever taken the trouble to do it. I, for one, have taken it for granted that it was a woman's duty to spend her youth in bearing children."When we are young, we go through a phase of wanting to sort everything out and solving the world's problems and making huge differences. We young people, cannot make everything better overnight, but our persistence will sure make a difference.P.S: the most powerful weapon is knowledge. let's read.
"A terrible thing had happened. She could read no more. Books were not what we thought them. "Books," she cried, rising to her feet and speaking with an intensity of desolation which I shall never forget, "are for the most part unutterably bad!""
¿Ha existido alguna vez alguien capaz de expresar las ideas que aquí se presentan de un modo tan sincero y relajado? Virginia Woolf vuelve a sorprenderme con sus historias reveladoras y su estilo impoluto.
I thought the story's theme was men, or feminism, and I was not enjoying it very much.Then suddenly, midstory, I realized I was looking at things with the wrong lens.I interpreted this story in a different light, as a nostalgic nod to the confidence of youth, where one believes they can learn everything, do everything, change everything.It was a lot more fun to read, framed in that light.My interpretation could be completely off from the writer's intention, but if we get something of value from art, how can that ever be a bad thing?
A peculiar short story which is, sort of, about a group of girls who create a little society with the purpose of asking questions about things in life in stead of taking the traditional route of getting married and having children, at least until they have some answers.
When I write 'sort of' it's because that sounds as if there might be some logical story line, which there really isn't, or at least it's wrapped in various observations and comments of an almost non sequitur kind, which makes the 'story' seem more symbolic than real.
The story also revolves around the roles of men and women, but again in a kind of fuzzily polemical way.
2.5 / 5.Very interesting social critique, great ending; the rest of the story was really boring. Sorry Virginia!
As the ways of Virginia Woolf , mostly described the feminist concepts of life and marriage where one can reach the deep inspiration and expectancy of Victorian girls !
Just okay. I get what she's trying to do, but I actually think her characteristically brilliant stream of consciousness distracts from her argument here.
I actually really enjoyed this book. I feel like it was so ahead of its time. Great read and great read for a book lover.
Interesting. Play on words.
