https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95420.Personal_History
Katharine Graham lived bigger than most of us ever will, meeting Albert Einstein, kicking it with President Kennedy, living in homes decorated with Renoirs and Manets, spending summers at a second home with horses and daily refreshed flower bouquets, traveling the world, attending both Vassar and The University of Chicago, battling unions, investing with Warren Buffet, and broadcasting the Watergate scandal.
Her life should have made for an interesting read, yet it simply wasn't.
The cover of this book shows an aged Katharine Graham, which seems fitting since it reads as dryly as an old lady reciting the encyclopedia.
Frankly, I didn't know much about her or her story of taking over the Washington Post upon the death of her husband - a job she really had been preparing for her whole life, if she knew it or not.
Katherine Graham is a amazing, strong and wise woman, and she tells her tale in a very honest way, sharing her flaws, her mistakes and her regrets as lessons for the rest of us.
She had a seat at the table for some of the biggest stories of our time, yet she makes each of these stories deeply personal in the telling.
A remarkable woman, a remarkable life, and a remarkable book.
Beginning with her father, Eugene Meyer, and his close dealings with the Hoover Administration and going all the way through her own birds-eye view of various presidents, including Roosevelt, Truman, Kennedy, Johnson, and, most fascinating of all, Nixon.Graham's life was supposed to be much different.
She was thrust into the position of taking over the Washington Post.Vast in scope and yet filled with personal insights (President Kennedy sent a plane to bring Phil back to Washington when he had a public mental breakdown), it's a fascinating look at the way government really works, in the salons and dining rooms of Georgetown.
Katharine Meyer Graham's autobiography takes us from her childhood as the daughter of a successful businessman to being the powerful woman at the head of the Washington Post.
She married Phil Graham, a brilliant, charismatic young lawyer who clerked at the Supreme Court.
Her father passed the Washington Post on to Phil who expanded the business by buying Newsweek and some television stations.
She was involved with the successful Washington Post until her mid-80s.In addition to being a fascinating autobiography, "Personal History" is also an interesting look back at over sixty years of social and political history.
Her husband, who grew up on a dairy farm in Florida, made a startling rise to the forefront of politics and became a close political advisor to several presidents and ran both the Washington Post and Newsweek, before suffering a complete mental collapse and committing suicide.
There is no attempt to take the major figures of American History and turn them for the reader into the real people that they were for Graham.
She provides no real insight into the incredible trauma that she suffered when her husband died and or into the triumphs she enjoyed as a major American businesswoman.
My general rule of thumb when someone writes a book about herself-- approach it with a healthy amount of skepticism.
Not many, but after reading this book, I am convinced that is exactly what Katharine Graham did in Personal History.
Above all things, this book feels honest.
It is also moving, heartbreaking, perceptive, historical and inspiring.
The book is multi-faceted.
Her decision to go back to work running The Washington Post after being at home to raise her children for several years was inspiring (though not without significant personal cost).
To top all this off her writing was excellent and memorable, a rare find in a memoir.
Katharine Graham was thrust into the middle of history, much against her own introverted instincts.
She was happy to play supportive housewife and mother while her father ran the Washington Post, succeeded by her brilliant, dynamic and bipolar husband, Phil Graham.
Phil was a hugely influential figure in Washington; in one manic stretch he almost single-handedly engineered the Kennedy-Johnson presidential ticket.
Through many trials and errors, about which she is unsparing candid, she guided the Post through the Pentagon Papers, labor unrest and Watergate.
I'm so happy I read this book, and it tied in nicely after reading No Ordinary Time by Doris Kearns Goodwin.
Mrs. Graham was frightfully honest and this is one of the only times that I can say it was truly necessary to the book.
She grew up in very fortunate circumstances, as her father was the definition of success and he eventually purchased the heart of the book: the Washington Post.
When it was her turn to run the Post, she did not get any easy breaks and faced her adversity with admirable strength and self-possession.
Boy this book could have used an editor. Although it was an interesting insider look at the newspaper business, Graham was repetitive in the way she described the trajectory of her life and that of her career, using too many specific instances and detail that did not always illuminate her point. More showing and less telling would have helped. As would have shaping the narrative into themes, rather than just giving us everything as it happened like some sort of chronological laundry list.
I loved this autobiography. I learned so much about the course of women's history in America by her tale of struggling to rise to her father's expectations, her relationship with her husband (who committed suicide), and her delicate handling of publisher of the Washington Post. Beautifully written.
A tremendously strong willed woman who stared down and won her battles with the men of her era as she ran one of the best papers in the world.
Graham has great self-understanding and perspective on her life, and was very honest about her late husband's mental illness, the things that she both admired and resented about her parents, and her own insecurities as an untrained businesswoman in a world that was still completely dominated by men.
Half a dozen men were yammering their opinions in her ear, all at the same time, but SHE was the person who had to decide, and she did, going with her gut, in a decision that ultimately put the Washington Post in the same league with the NY Times for the first time.
Another book club book -- I wouldn't have picked it up to read it on my own, but I'm glad I read (most of) it.
It was interesting as a social commentary, though there wasn't much personal emotion in it -- strange for an autobiography.There was too much name-dropping and detail to make this an enjoyable read.
It was also hard to sympathize with her at all when she talked about how hard it was to live with just a maid but not a cook, or how she had only one dress as a child (which she wore to every dinner at which her servants pulled out her chair for her).
One of the best biographies (in this case, autobiographies) ever written. Seriously.
Truly one of my all time top five books ever read. LOVED the story, the life and the writing immensely.
Tragically, Graham ultimately proved all of the men wrong about that, but she suffered a great deal in the process.This book is interesting to read for a variety of reasons, one of which is Graham's almost total vulnerability in opening herself up to be second-guessed and criticized for things that she did or did not do throughout her life.
That is also how she treats Phil's mental disintegration and suicide – saying that she should have put the clues together and recognized much sooner that he had a serious problem, and that she should have taken more control of things and not allowed herself and others to be manipulated by Phil.While Graham is quite candid about her life, part of me wonders what – if anything – she chose to leave out.
Why I don't think this book is the go-to piece of literature on the Watergate scandal lies in my main complaint, so I'll jump to it.
The part about Watergate wasn't nearly as descriptive as her childhood, personal issues, or how much money her family had.
Instead of many pages devoted to her managerial style of the paper, and other challenges she faced in the business, the majority is focused on her parents' childhoods, her childhood, how much her family owned, including descriptions of all their properties, and the social life in Washington.
A lot of her "personal history" is also devoted to her social awakening, which is great.
Her honest telling of going from a life of privilege and wealth (when she went to college she had no idea how to do laundry - her sweaters always had magically appeared in her drawer!) to falling in love with the brilliant Phil (who she learned too late was mentally unstable) to hosting the powerful elite in DC to running her father’s company to facing down the White House (twice — the Pentagon Papers and Watergate).
And she does it with grace and class as she struggles adn learns to find her own powerful voice.
I was so in awe of her story that I wrote her a personal note.
A month later, I received a hand written personal thank you note.
This is a re-read for me and I enjoyed it much more this time around. I think just because I have more life under my belt than when I read it when it was released. I enjoyed Graham's discussions of being a woman in a mans world at a time when there were no women in any powerful business positions. I also found her discussions of how the press had to learn to cover McCarthy and Nixon fascinating in light of trying to cope with and cover Trump. For a thick and meaty bio this was very readable.
Perhaps because I live in Washington or perhaps because there are a lot of parallels between this administration's relationship with the press and previous administration's relationship with the press, but this book truly stood the test of time for me.
While I winced at Graham's attitude towards feminism and the role of women in the workplace, I found her concise delivery and her ability to capture the events and the emotions of the times that her autobiography covers remarkable.
Do I think Katharine Graham and I would be best friends IRL if she were alive today?
But the book was fascinating and I would recommend it to anyone.
I was hoping the book would be more about the running of a newspaper, interesting stories, people and events the paper would have covered but in retrospect this book and Katharine Graham's personal experience was never going to be about that.
It makes me wonder if she hadn't been heir to the paper whether someone with her education, experience and business nous (or lack thereof) would have been given a second glance in relation to running it.
Two last observations - I don't know whether we were supposed to feel sorry for her with her relationship with her parents.
I think I would rather read a book on a self-made person, not an heiress.
She always managed to reconcile herself to the decisions made by her father, her husband, and the rest of the male power structure until fairly late in her life.I found it sad and somewhat shocking that Phil Graham lived in a time when he could not get adequate treatment for his mental illness, despite his prominence, education and money.I especially appreciated the account of WaPo’s decision to publish the Pentagon Papers, and it was good to be reminded of how slowly the Watergate investigation unfolded.
I was pleasantly surprised to have my interest level maintained from start to finish.Kay candidly acknowledges her very privileged life but I still found mysel rolling my eyes when she mentions how busy her life became as children arrived on the scene.
She readily admits her shortcomings and gives ample credit to others for her success.
She also readily admits to caving in to the subservient female role in her early business career and speaks honestly about how she gradually overcame that in spite of her fears and insecurities.Way to go, Kay
I learned even more.......and yes...much of the crap that went on with Nixon is going on now with Trump........I think Katharine would be horrified if she were alive in 2018.....however, I also think she would be proud to know that she is telling people that how we vote and whom we support while in office does affect us in many ways in negative or positive ways...depending on if you vote at all,and for whom you vote for.
Katharine worked hard to keep people informed of the facts,and was upset if alternate/incorrect factual information would hit her newsroom.Read her book.
This is interesting, especially the chapters concerning Katharine Graham having to take over running the Washington Post and the newspaper's role in publishing the Pentagon Papers and uncovering Watergate.
I found the extended treatment of the unions' strike against the Post much less enthralling.
Graham got to rub elbows with business titans, politicians, writers, entertainers and pop-culture phenoms, and her reflections provide a fascinating window on the times.
But, she needs an editor.
We don't need to see every year-end note she writes to Ben Bradlee or everyday letters to readers.
She's an interesting woman who lived in interesting times, but her story isn't worth 625 pages.
The kind of book you feel sad when you finish the last page. Not as known as other top entrepreneur, KG was a fascinating personality and had an incredible evolution in the years she managed the Post.
I finished it by sheer determination. 630 pages of uninteresting writing. I am glad I read it because I feel enlightened about aspects of history of which I was previously knowledgeable. I'm also glad I read it so I know what NOT to do when I get around to writing my own memoir!
Katharine Graham (nee Meyer) was born in 1917 and grew up in quite a different society norm than today.
Graham got a newspaper job away from home after studying at U.
Her dad (Eugene Meyer) had bought the Washington Post recently, which she joined.
Then her husband joined the post in 1946 and she took a more domestic role.
That year, Meyer was tasked by Roosevelt to head the world bank and bingo, Graham's husband became the new publisher of the Post.
But the husband committed suicide and the publisher's job was thrusted upon Graham.
Graham raised a family while dealing with her alcoholic, mentally ill husband; survived his suicide & became a great newspaper figure while leading the Washington Post through Watergate, the modernization of newspaper publishing, serious strike actions, & the changing relationship between a free press and the government.
But – the book is very reportorial in style - & after all those pages, I still didn’t feel that I knew Katharine Graham.
I thought it was very courageous of her to include in the book a love letter her husband wrote to her at a difficult time in their relationship.
We weren't in there for too long, but by the time I left it was decided: I simply had to read her autobiography.Two things in the exhibit stuck out.
While I like biographies, I have a tendency to get a bit bogged down reading them.
I've never read an autobiography before, so maybe not all of them manage to avoid this trap, but Graham's certainly did.
This was a 600+ page book that I read in two and a half weeks during a particularly busy time of year.
