https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/169810.Young_Lonigan
This while Studs yearns to join the older kids, tough guys, young men who are experienced with the girls (to hear them talk), who all have their own problems with their own families, being pushed by that first generation of hard-working (and many hard drinking) Irish who made a life in Chicago.Farrell knows the people, knows the kids, knows the territory.
She looked beautiful, like a flame.
She pursed her lips, moved closer to him, flung her arms around him, kissed him, and said:‘I like you!’She kissed away his surprise, looked dreamily into his eyes, kissed him again, long, and then dashed out.‘Jesus Christ!’ he said to himself.”Have you ever had a character that you wanted to just reach down into the bowels of the book and take him by the shoulders and give him a good shake?
This book is the first of a trilogy featuring our hero Studs Lonigan.
There are important books one reads not for pure personal pleasure but, particularly in early life, to understand other times and places and states of mind.
For me, the Studs Lonigan trilogy, along with many other books, were works like that.
This was a different time (the early 20th Century), a different place (working class Chicago) and a different aesthetic (classical realism).
For me, the Thirties, of which the Lonigan trilogy is a product, was long ago and far away, though full of familiar history to which I'd been exposed early.
It may well have succeeded as such for those reading it at the time it was written.
He thinks of many things as he mugs and smokes, about school and the Sisters and his pals, about Lucy the girl he loves, about his rival and nemesis Weary Reilly.
But mostly he thinks about what a tough, grown-up guy he is, and how he won’t be pushed around and told what to do.His sister knocks on the bathroom door.
Studs is hogging the bathroom; he’s probably in there smoking.
So, begins “Young Lonigan” the first novel in the Studs Lonigan trilogy.The action takes place over the summer break between grammar school graduation and high school.
I knew kids like Studs, Weary Reilly, Davey Cohen, Lucy, Helen and the rest.
It's a rough and tumble story that is obviously just the beginning of Stud's story, appearing to be the first steps towards a largely deserved decent.
Perhaps I really am curmudgeonly old man, I just kept thinking things along the lines of, "Respect your elders, you little shit, and your peers, hell, respect yourself a bit too!".
Not terrible, I think it's more of a stylistic issue for me than anything else, but the 'hard-boiled', adolescent slurs and bemoaning also wore thin, and this is a pretty darn short book to wear thin on ya.
While James T Farrell is apparently lauded by writers and critics alike as one of the greatest American writers of blue collar experience in the early 20th century, I found this first part of the Studs Lonigan trilogy dated.
The portrayal of corner boys socking each other and thumbing their noses as insult was relatively tame by today's standards, but Studs' rise to be 'cock of the walk' was very repetitive.
I was annoyed by the characters engaging in sustained casual racism, and sometimes violence in this regard, although I suppose this would probably have been accurate on the south side of Chicago in the late 1920s / early 1930s.
It struck me as yet another story attempting to expose the dark underbelly of Irish Catholics in America.
I get that all was not and is not perfect, but I feel like if it's not going to be done in a new and interesting way, the story's been done.
But like Angela's Ashes or something, it takes it to a crazy extreme with things like I think a 12 year old secret prostitute-type character.
Just sick and depressing and way too dark for my taste.
Having said that, since this was for a college class and I was thereby forced to read it, I can't be sure I read the whole thing.
Save this book and its sequels for a hundred years and the sociology of 58th and Indiana in 1916 will be fascinating. However, don't bother with it in the 21st Century.
Made me very glad I am not 14 years old...
I hope someone does like it, but I thought it was not good.It’s not surprising then that I loved A Tree Grows in Brooklyn so much, because if we’re read a narration of growing up in New York City that’s the one to read.In this one, though, we get an ok story….ne’er do well, petty crimes, games of baseball, friends, hatred of school, social analysis of Catholicism.Oh, right, lots of racism and anti-semitism.
I don’t really want to try to connect with and identify with a character whose depiction is accurately drawn, and framed as sympathetic, but is so reprehensibly narrated that it’s not fun or interesting to work my way through it.I have read plenty of different books that deal in despicable characters.
Look, Ma, I’m writing!“The July night leaked heat all over Fifty-eight Street, and the fitful death of the sun shed softening colors that spread gauze-like and glamorous over the street, stilling those harshnesses and commercial uglinesses that were emphasized by the brighter revelations of the day. About the street there seemed to be a supervening beauty of reflected life.” And on and on and on. Precious and inflated.
Ehhhhh. Interesting as a study of a time and place and culture. Focusing on the thoughts of a randy teenaged boy, though? It doesn't lend the story much depth, let's say.
Too dated for more than 3 stars. Interesting look into early 20th century Chicago youth culture

This first book was written in 1932 and I don't know that it stands the test of time.
Written in stream-of-consciousness style, before that style probably even had a name, the book is about a 14 year old boy living in Chicago.
the president then said, "come over here mr.
frankenstein, your help is needed in these discussions." mr.
crankenstein decided to forgo the president's request and go ahead with an executive order of his own and bought himself a plane ticket to zimbabwe, but not the one in africa, the one closer to gary, indiana.
"cranky!" said the president.
This is worse than y2k!!!!" "hogwash" said cranky.
"of course it's true," said cranky.
This is the first volume in Farrell's trilogy on young Studs Lonigan.
Studs is able to drop his tough guy image when he is one-on-one with friends, both male and female.
But when he is in a group, even with his own family, the persona reverts to the tough guy.Studs really loves Lucy Scanlon, but finds it impossible to be open about his feelings toward her.
He sees it as a turning point in his life and dreams of that moment frequently.The story traces the street antics of Studs and his friends.
Few of his friends are going on to high school, and studs feels it a waste of time too.
That's one thing to say for it," Mrs. Reilley said.Then you marvel at passages like this:The July night leaked heat all over Fifty-eighth Street, and the fitful death of the sun shed softening colors that spread gauze-like and glamorous over the street, stilling those harshnesses and commercial uglinesses that were emphasized by the brighter revelations of day.
Sammie Schmaltz, the paper man, yelling his final box-score editions, a boy's broken hoop left forgotten against the elevated girder, the people hurrying out of the elevated station and others walking lazily about, all bespoke the life of a community, the tang and sorrow and joy of a people that lived, worked, suffered, procreated, aspired, filled out their little days, and died.
For me, the value of this book is the unobstructed glimpse into the mind of a teenage boy in working class Chicago during the early 1900s.
But that’s it.
And that’s also it’s downfall, so in the end it’s a book I’m glad I read, though I didn’t enjoy it, and I won’t be picking it up again.
It’s a historical document as far as I’m concerned.
A lot of the dialogue is made up of slang that modern readers won’t recognize.
It’s easy to see why this is an important piece of literary history, but I really don’t think it will appeal to today’s casual reader.
It didn’t to me.
Perhaps because I read this as part of the Modern Library Top 100 novel list and so close to some classics from the first two decades of the twentieth century, I was struck by the originality of the book in a way that I might not have - primarily because this style had so many imitators (Kerouac spring to mind).
Been meaning to read the Studs Lonigan trilogy for about 20 years now (it's often cited on those Most Important Books of the Century lists) but 1050 pages of American social realism just always sounded really bad.
"feel day") and the anarchic sense of fun, and I always enjoy books where the children are sociopathic monsters like children are in reality and not pleasant little ladies & gentlemen full of innocence and grace.
BUT the book ends after 200 pages and still it feels like the story hasn't even started.
Just get everyone in position for the next 850 pages?
Young Studs has just graduated from a Catholic middle school in pre-WWI South Chicago. We see America through his metaphorical eyes: he is a good-hearted neighborhood bully trying to grow up and discover himself. Through the wise-cracking young Studs, we see middle class White society's view on Blacks, Jews, gangsters, religion and moral authority, love and sex. Studs is a pre-cursor to Holden Caulfield, Rabbit Angstrom and Alex and his Droogs -- and it would not surprise me if he was their inspiration. I look forward to the other two books in this trilogy.
Studs Lonigan has just finished his grammar school. Young Lonigan takes place almost entirely between the summer between grammar school and high school. Studs wanders around lusting after Lucy, palling with Helen Shires, and shagging Iris. He moves from one gang to a rougher gang of Irish boys both of whom like to raid fridges and beat up Jews. By the end of the summer Studs begins to realize what he has lost.
Enjoyed this much more than I thought I would. Farrell takes stream of consciousness and brings it down to the American street level, as he follows young William Lonigan just after his graduation from grade school in 1916. Lonigan has a good heart, but an array of forces--from the family to the church to his gang on Chicago's south side--pen him in and send him inexorably along to a miserable, dangerous life. Can't wait to read the other two parts of the trilogy.
one of those books that reminds you that people in the past really did have all of the same thoughts, feelings, fears, etc. that we have now -- and that people have always had, of course. this is a particularly raw bildungsroman for its time, with frank discussions of sex, violence, religion, and race. i'm looking forward to seeing what happens next to studs.
While it took me until about 30 pages in to get into this book, it's a poignant portrait of a young Irish-American coming of age in 1916 Chicago. Perceptions of race and masculinity develop on this, the first book, in the Studs Lonigan trilogy.
It's hard to say this is a retread of your typical urban, gangster, Irish-Catholic, story, because the retreads were based Farrell's work. The story is original, poignant and moving and a slice of a time and place captured beautifully. Looking forward to the rest of the trilogy.
Disappointing. Like the first chapter of Augie March or a Philip Roth book. Too far removed from my experience. Some very beautiful passages.
I enjoyed this book very much, which was recommended to me by Goodreads. I just purchased the other two books of the trilogy, The Young Manhood of Studs Lonigan and Judgement Day.
This was not the most enjoyable book, but subject matter has a lot to do with it. I might upgrade my rating when I finish the trilogy, and not dealing with a summer respiratory infection.
As far as I'm concerned, Farrell could have shortened this first installment to about 70 pages or just skipped it altogether. *2/5 stars*
