https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69711.A_Small_Place
Her short yet provocative essay A Small Place describing life in her native Antigua has earned inclusion in the book 500 Great Books by Women by Erica Bauermeister.
In this essay, Kincaid details foreign presence in Antigua and its influence on her native population.
Kincaid starts her essay describing how one would feel when arriving at Antigua's only airport.
The main reason Kincaid cites for this schism is that Antigua is largely a country of descendants of slaves, yet has been under British rule and government since the time of the Empire.
As a visitor, you travel to a beautiful place.
Palm trees, blue oceans, friendly people, see the things, visit the sites that all visitors do.
In this essay, Ward takes us on a little journey, uncovering not only the history of this country, Antigua, but showing us the things that are hidden.
Mainly how colonization has changed this beautiful place, and not for the better.
What is has done to the people as a whole.
The difference between what a tourist sees and what is reality for many of the people on this island is jarring.
But no place could ever really be England, and nobody who did not look exactly like them would ever be English, so you can imagine the destruction of people that came from that.
The English hate each other and they hate England, and the reason they are so miserable now is that they have no place else to go and nobody else to feel better than."The book is about Antigua, but one could ctrl+F the text and replace every "Antigua" with any other US holding (Hawaii, the Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, etc.) and it would apply just as well.
It was an enjoyable conversation until the mom started spewing some ignorant comments about the 'exotic' beauty of the places they had visited (including Antigua) and then decided I should have some Jesus pamphlet.
I thought: if she thinks I'll benefit from this, I have something I think she would benefit from as well.
So we swapped readings: I took her "the end is near, be saved by a conservative, repressive, fear-inducing interpretation of Jesus/God" and handed her my sacred possession.
It may seem a bit mean, but I thought of it as an enlightening opportunity.
The first essay is quite brilliant, especially as it is written in the second person, you, you, you, thus deliberately embedded with an accusatory tone.Jamaica Kincaid has been away from Antigua for some years and is seeing it with new eyes when she returns, she describes the ugly, despicable tourist as someone we become when we leave home, how we are despised by locals everywhere.
I want to give this as a wedding present to any couple planning a Caribbean honeymoon.
A Small Place is Jamaica Kincaid's scathing and brilliant indictment of colonialism and neo-colonialism in the form of tourism in her home of Antigua.I picked this one up because I wanted something thought provoking and short and WOW. All written in second-person plural, Kincaid is speaking directly to you... to each of us. 80 pages later, and that was the razor-sharp, trenchant essay I didn't even know I needed.Highly recommended.
!!! https://africanbookaddict.com/2017/08...This is the 3rd Kincaid book I've read and she's always been a favorite. Where do I even begin with this one? ...It's brutal. Its brutal for the reader (especially if you are a reader who is white), for Antiguans, the Antiguan government and the tourism industry. Kincaid's 'A Small Place' is full of vitriol. She spews harsh criticisms on her native island's truly dishonest and disappointing leadership as an extension of colonialism. She also critiques
At some point, I wondered if Kincaid condoned xenophobia, because the way she describes the ways fellow Antiguans and other folks from the Caribbean dislike tourists (to the point where she actually insults white tourists), it could be seen as quite hateful.
But then again, I read this book/memoir as a satire, so taking Kincaid's frank critique to heart is missing the point.
I doubt 'A Small Place' is even sold in the Caribbean because Kincaid goes IN on (former) Prime Ministers of Antigua, Grenada and Haiti.
Read 'A Small Place' and marvel at this woman's heroism.
[4.5 stars] A searing and brilliant indictment of all those who have exploited, from slavery to the present time, the citizens of Antigua. Kincaid writes with exquisite, measured fury. (I listened to the Hoopla audio with pitch-perfect narration by Robin Miles)
This is the kind of book that makes me uncomfortable with myself, and forces me to think about my world in a way that I don't like to admit.
Maybe there is some uncomfortable deficiency within myself that she brings to the surface like an angry boil.
This book is beautiful, poetic, and deeply personal, but as an intellectual, I feel like it is also a work of flawed sensationalism.Throughout the entire book, I could feel her anger.
Maybe she should shift the blame just a bit.Kincaid also spends a lot of time in her book talking about what has happened in her post-colonial world.
I know I am self-indulgent in book reviewing, as my reviews are often rants, screams and personal ravings about my life, triggered by some incident or theme in a book I finished reading.
My friends think I am excited over a home run or a touchdown, when actually I am really just screaming to vocalize my generalized rage and frustration over how things are with me.
Jamaica Kincaid's 'A Small Place' seems to me to be a scream of rage and frustration over her past and because of the intentionally created decrepitude and degradation of Antigua.
:) In A Small Place, Jamaica Kincaid uses her complex insider-outsider status within each of the three countries she was shaped by in her life—Britain, America, and her native Antigua—to argue that the reason islanders must rely on white culture for survival is due to the continual degradation of the education system.
Her comprehension of the complex issues within each of these societies allows her to prove to her primarily white audience that, though native Antiguans have technically been granted “freedom” from English rule, over the course of time they have experienced an escalation of dependence on tourism for survival as education and literacy have decreased.
This is a blistering and wholly accurrate look at colonialism. I'm not surprised that some reviewers comment on her angry tone. Her anger is justified and validated in her writing. We are just accustomed to seeing colonialism as a benefit to the world rather than the horror it was. Damn is this good.
As Salman Rushdie says in the introduction - a jeremiad- but a beautifully written jeremiad and contained in only 80 pages.
I fear we are all becoming denizens of "A Small Place" not in a fixed geographical sense like Kincaid's Antigua, but economically and socially between the world of oligarchs, drug barons, tax dodgers, and those who are relegated to the College for Servants and who ought to feel grateful that they aren't outright slaves.
I enjoyed the view of history, her personal memories of the power of a library, and the musing on the impersonal beauty of nature.
Wow, this is extremely guilt-inducing to anyone who ever has or wants to go to a beautiful Caribbean island to "get away from it all." Kincaid powerfully points out that Antigua is beautiful but also beset with poverty and other problems that tourists will likely not see. This small nation has not been free from British rule for all that long, and its self-governance did not bring a better life for the average Antiguan.These essays are scathing and incredibly thought-provoking about the past and present of Antigua's relationship with the English and white North Americans. I highly recommend it.
Caribbean literature is something that I haven’t read very much of, but the first two Jamaica Kincaid novels I read were Annie John and Lucy and that was a little over two years ago.
I thoroughly enjoyed them.
So to continue my discovery of Kincaid I picked up A Small Place and devoured it in a few hours.The first few pages surprised me because Kincaid immediately implements the reader in the story.
She is speaking directly to us.
Within this tiny 81 page book, Kincaid explains the destruction and profiteering of her home, Antigua.
Click the link to continue the review - http://browngirlreading.com/2015/03/0...
Who does Jamaica Kincaid disdain more thoroughly, the British who colonized Antigua, the corrupt elite who now rule, her fellow Antiguans who attend the Hotel Training School to learn "how to be a good nobody", or the hapless tourists who fly into this mess looking for a nice beach?
At times, I felt like I was a part of the struggle, and at other times, I understood that it was not my place, that I was somehow in line with the Western society that caused the ruination depicted throughout.
I felt uncomfortable.
I think I'd like to read it a few more times to take it all in.
I want to understand why exactly parts of it made me uncomfortable, versus the parts where I empathized and understood the struggle as my own.
I plan on reading more books like this, too, to gain more knowledge and outlook.
From there is moves to a rant, the essence of which is that the British colonial authorities were corrupt, and when they left in 1981, Antiguans only knew governing system of corruption and carried on colonial practices.
The rant, expresses the anger of those who lost their society and culture.
While the passion is surely genuine and understandably justified, it is not good reading.Kincaid is an American citizen now, essentially, joining the forces she condemns in this book.This book might be read to understand the feelings of those who live in post colonial societies or for background on Antigua in this period.
48 pages of fire, reminds me of Alice Walker's "if I could write in fire, I would write in fire"...
A short book, rather an essay but every word hits the mark.
As someone who recently traveled to the Caribbean (though not to Antigua) and observed the attitudes American tourists often display towards the native people of these islands, it was interesting to read the other side of the story.
If you read the reviews of this book on Amazon.com, you will see plenty of people tsk-tsking Ms. Kincaid for her 'tone,' for her 'anger,' as if to say, "you'll never accomplish anything THAT way!" But I think I get where she's coming from, at least it a way--westerners are so quick to dismiss the people of the Caribbean as quaint, rustic, simple people.
It would be difficult, I'm sure, to read Kincaid's work if you were one of these people, but it is necessary in order to keep from forming such quick judgments.
Non-fiction that I'm totally digging!The book starts off and you're thinking, "Ok, this isn't anything I don't know or don't feel guilty about all ready." It's not an annoyance, but it's not very compelling to read the white guilt you're probably already feeling having just like been to the groccery store or something banal and horrible like that.
That started even cool ass Canada!It's the book's pacing that gives it most of its force.
Reading both of these books one after the other--they're a strange pair.
And I'm really interested in pursuing the thesis as my final research paper for the class.Fantastic one-sit read.
This is a hard one to rate.
The feeling behind her writing is good.
If you want to read this i recommend the audiobook.
However after doing more research on her it's thrown me off.
Given she's a professor at Harvard with a vacation home in Vermont it makes me pause.
This marketed as none fiction essay.
Okay however she has said herself The r are some truths and not truths to this.
So how do I rate it.
She goes on and on about this library.
If this library does exists i hope she put some of that vacation home money towards it.
"Antigua is beautiful. Antigua is too beautiful.[...]It is as if, then, the beauty—the beauty of the sea, the land, the air, the trees, the market, the people, the sounds they make—were a prison, and as if everything and everybody inside it were locked in and everything and everybody that is not inside it were locked out." I love Kincaid's style and voice and anger. Review to come.
I had to read this book for a class I am taking.
She discusses the horrors of slavery, the sting of colonization, the corruption of the Antiguan government, the and the invasion of ugly disliked tourists., and the cluelessness of her own people.
As a white American who has done my fair share of Caribbean travel, I winced often while reading this 80-page book.
One premise is that mass tourism is simply a new form of colonization.
Read the banned book and see that hers is not such an outrageous idea.
So very enlightening! This one will definitely make you uncomfortable, especially if you are an international traveler and frequent tourist, but being uncomfortable is part of the journey to understanding.
I like that she was very straight forward about colonialism. It was a little repetitive at times but interesting all the while.
Jamaica Kincaid has written other books that I'm sure are much better reads than this one. "A Small Place" is nonfiction. It is not a travelogue about her native island Antigua. Rather the first part is a diatribe against the offenses of British colonialism. It's probably well deserved. The second part is a diatribe against the corruption of the government there after British rule ended. While both tirades may be well justified, it didn't make for good reading.
Kincaid's tirade against the Western powers which colonized and exploited small, Caribbean territories such as her homeland of Antigua and the corrupt, patronizing leaders who have dominated the political scene since the island nation achieved independence.
She spends a lot of time berating tourists for cluttering her beaches and degrading her island's culture without really understanding it.
The culture of the likely reading audience is impugned throughout, but American and European tourists only flock to Caribbean beaches because Antigua's only competitive industry is tourism, and I fail to see why that blame falls so squarely on the great powers.
