https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/256566.Everything_Is_Illuminated
(I still wish you weren’t so freaking young, though)The story is fragmented, told through letters and hodgepodges of writings that might or might not be parts of a novel.
When a Jew encounters a pin, he asks “What does it remember like?”The idea of memory as a sense.
But I can appreciate this idea:  “What does it remember like?” Aren’t we all tied to the past?
At one point, Alex begs Jonathan when writing their story:  “I beseech you to forgive us, and to make us better than we are.
It explores much more difficult topics, such as the nature of life, love, and art, and is in general much more philosophical and harder to get your head around.These sections are split by letters from Alexander to Jonathan commenting on Jonathan's sections and introducing his own next section.The weird thing about this book is that, at least for me, it gets frustrating to read the author's crazy attempts at philosophy.
(A less politically correct but more conceptually accurate comparison would be Charlie Chan, as written by Earl Derr Biggers.) Foer's intertwining of stories is also quite clever, and his use of the two narrators to tell the main storylines.However, with all the cleverness going on, Foer seems to have forgotten in many places to actually insert a novel.
Even more horrid.)The book is billed as a comedy, and Foer tries to carry it off as such, but when the finest-written scenes are those of tragedy, it's hard to call it a success as attempted.
It’s like God’s canvas spluttered with beautiful colors.
Sunset is always breathtaking and you find yourself staring at it, perplexed and speechless.
You are there standing, you feel the small stones piercing your soles.
With the afternoon sea breeze softly blowing, you feel cold.
You want to see the finality of the sunset.
The shore is part of the bay and you can see lights starting to flicker from the nearby island.
You feel the stones poking your skin.
You start to shiver from cold.
But you feel happy as you have just witness an unspeakable beauty.
You feel utterly happy.
I think there is also an absurdity with which Foer describes the ancestral characters in the Ukrainian village (called Trachimbrod) but to me most of the quirkiness seemed forced and unnatural, and ruined what could have provided an endearing element to the story.
I mean, we’re talking about a village wherein characters collect each other’s tears in thimbles and send each other pieces of string that match the length of their body parts in order that their recipients be assuaged of any fear that their loved ones have “changed.” (Blech.)And then there are the sentences, the ones I think are meant to sound deep and awe-inspiring but which only come across as shallow and trite in my non-Coloradan state of sobriety.
Because even though I’ve been reading this book for almost three weeks (bananas long for me), it still feels like one cohesive experience.I just want to quote this book to you, if that’s okay.
The shtetl of Trachimbrod, its Trachimday and the Time of Dyed Hands and surname-initialed residents (Bitzl Bitzl R was my favorite).This book sometimes gave me a feeling like my heart was swelling up.
My hand twitched for a pencil or a Post-It while I read these lovely words, but I was always too absorbed and soon forgot what I was trying to remember to do.
Because I want to live inside this book.Bottom line: I don’t even know what to say.
Gimmicks as substance.
But as I got into the book, what I found was one of the least pretentious literary novels I’ve ever read.
This book is funny, but not in the way I was expecting (Foer’s basically anti-snarky).
Instead of taking one of the modern American approaches to humor*, Foer utilizes the type of slapstick that ruled comedic cinema over 60 years ago and has more or less disappeared from popular culture.
I’ve watched each Abbot and Costello movie between 3 and 25 times, and while I think their routines are brilliant, I’m also aware that the majority of Americans under 40 would likely yawn or cringe through many of them.
There are two protagonists, the author, a young Jewish man off to find his roots in a now famous but obliterated shtetl near the Polish/Ukrainian border; and a young, ambitious lad from a disfunctional family in Odessa who acts as guide and subsequent interlocutor.
The author writes history (of a post-modernist sort); the lad writes of the trip and comments on the author's text.
Without the comedic language to make this contradictory point, the book would likely fall flat.
With that language, and it's gradual 'normalisation' during the course of the tale, the book becomes a story of revelation.
Sorry but I didn't care for this at all. If Mr. Nobody wrote a book about himself as the main character, and used some uninventive malapropisms to make discussions with a foreigner amusing, the book would be tossed. But wait, Foer went to Yale. Unfortunately for me the quality of his writing shows me that nepotism will always beat out merit these days. Sorry to be harsh, but really, I found the writing to be quite poor.
I believe it is because Sasha has come away with a much deeper understanding of himself from their trip, while Jonathan seems to have mostly come away with good writing material.
In one final thought, I remember that Ernest Hemingway was mentioned at some point in the novel, I believe by Sasha in talking about Jonathan becoming a great American writer.
Not that Jonathan creates any sort of emotionally reckless situation, but he in some way sells out his family history in order to write an interesting book.On a side note, don't see the movie if you want it to be like the book.
It attempts to hide the real theme of pathos inherent in all immigrant stories, & that the reader desires desperately to unearth it like nothing else.
It is fresh prose-like-a-rose and exhibits one intuitive, clever, downright beautiful structure.
With its proud badges of a first--not to mention major) literary novel audaciousness it is a wondrous, always necessary!-- version of the Don Quixote legend.
And, like me, somehow I really crave for a sequel to this, which I very rarely do, you will think the same."Everything is the way it is because everything was the way it was." 145
Jedna od onih neobičnih "otkačenih" knjiga koje mi s vremena na vreme nalete i osveže mi dan... Imala sam zadovoljstvo da je čitam u rukopisu pre objavljivanja... Mnogo kasnije nastao je film... Knjiga je, nažalost, kod nas prošla nezapaženo i srećom u međuvremenu mu se promenio izdavač... Koji će možda više učiniti za ovog autora jer on to zaslužuje... Ako volite Marka Haddona ili Dana Rhodesa... ovo je autor za vas... :)
The gut-tickling malaprop voice of Alex, bragging falsely (but without a trace of guile) in a broken idiolect that suggests computer translation gone awry, is worth the price of admission all by itself. Sadly, the rest of the book -- much of it strung out in unimaginative flashback episodes -- is a turgid, half-baked mess. Reading just Alex's bits and ignoring the rest would be a bit like picking out all the chocolate chips from a bag of trailmix...but that may be the best way to snack here.
Jonathan Safran Foer has magical powers.No, really he does.Look I'll prove it.He can make anyone who reads his books spontaneously vomit adjectives in great abundance.Proof?The cover of Everything is Illuminated.Let's examine the evidence:Gripping, entertaining, dazzling - The Evening StandardOutrageous, extraordinary - Financial TimesHilarious, exhilarating, moving - Jewish ChronicleSerious, funny - HeraldPowerful, shocking, harsh, sincere - ListSpectacular, funny, brilliant, moving - ObserverShowy, smart - Susan SontagStartling, original, comic, tragic - Nicci GerardExtraordinary, brilliant, shattering - San Francisco ChronicleGlittering - Mark LawsonBold, exuberant - Daily MailSubtle, profound, fantastic, bold, imaginative - Boston GlobeFunny, brilliant - EsquireEffervescent, reckless, vibrant, playful - TLSAstonishing, shattering - IndependentSee, the covers are spattered, inside and out, with a veritable adjective pebble-dash.
Jonathan is in the Ukraine to uncover a part of his family history, however his presence forces Alex's grandfather to examine his own past too.
So, if the writing's no good, even the best story in the world will only earn three stars (case in point: Da Vinci Code, not even to imply it has the best story in the world, but it does have a good one.Tilting the scales the other way, all I remember from the first time Iread Catcher in the Rye was that Holden got kicked out of school [again] and subsequently went home to New York and wandered around for a while.
That's good writing; I want to read it, not skip ahead to know the ending.
It was based on real-life research he had done in the Ukraine trying to find the woman in an old family picture who helped is grandfather escape the Nazis.
He put a fictionalized wrapper around all this that bundled not only the family history, but tales about life in the shtetl, an account narrated by his young Ukrainian translator (Alex), and the correspondence between them.
Foer was also criticized for overstating the part Ukrainians played in abetting the Nazis in the actual historical event at Trochenbrod (which was the model for his story).
Straight into my goodreads favourites!- This novel follows the story of Jonathan, a young man who is visiting Ukraine in the hopes of discovering the woman who saved his Grandfather from the Nazis fifty years before.
There are chapters which follow Jonathan and Alex in the present time, each one of them telling the story from their point of view (I have to say that I found Alex's jumbled English to be hilarious), but there are also chapters that go back in time to Jonathan's Grandfather and what actually happened to him.
This gets an extra star for a truly funny gag that carries the book for the first fifty or sixty pages.
Over time she gets used to the sound, until finally she can't hear it at all.
The metaphor is that parents eventually get over the death of a child, and that's essentially true, but it's made dishonest by Foer's lazy cuteness.
When you're inside washing dishes maybe you don't hear the waterfall anymore, but if you go up and splash in it, it's deafening.
All this cuteness, and all this dishonesty, could possibly be overcome, if only the story was good.
Jonathan Safran Foer comes with a full bag of tricks, all of which he uses in an attempt to dazzle you out of seeing what this book actually is, which is corny.
The lead character is a Ukrainian named Alex who's gone thesaurus-happy, with an effect that starts off funny and quickly gets insufferable; the funny talk disguises what he's actually saying, which is corny.It's told in several voices: Alex writing to Safran Foer, Alex writing a book, and Safran Foer's history of his family.
Since actual Safran Foer wrote all of it, this amounts to self-congratulation.The family history seems to be entirely made up.
There are literary devices in here that made me roll my eyes on multiple occasions, for instance: 1) inserting the author, Jonathan Safran Foer, into the novel (and not like Alfred Hitchcock and Stan Lee have cameos in their movies; Jonathan is present in this book), 2) abandoning all grammar and sentence structure to stress that something horrifying and tragic is happening ( ...or that Foer is ready to end his novel), and 3) relying heavily on magical realism (I'm normally not a fan).The above devices can reek of pretension in lesser hands, so until I decided which camp Foer's hands fell in, my hands were on the "abort" button multiple times while reading this.But.Some of the razzle dazzles used by Foer (the author of Everything is Illuminated, not the Foer in the novel) were way more successful.
I could go on and on about how what is clever at 25 grows less so as we age, about how metafiction resonates more with young men who have yet to face the issues that do have enduring meaning in life (durational love, children, divorce, death), about how tapping into the Holocaust for emotional weight seems increasingly to be cheating. But enough. There are already mixed reviews that discuss the limits of this novel. Read those. Smart but not especially emotionally or psychologically interesting.
Some of it is what the character Jonathan Safran Foer writes as his novel (after his return from his trip) and some of it is narrative of the actual trip, given by Alex.
When the parts are put together as a whole novel, the reader is forced to be quite patient and thorough to finish the book actually understanding all of what happened, and even more willing to be content with its loose ends that will never be tied.While Alex's broken English can certainly be funny, it slows down the pace of the novel (because it's impossible to read it fast) too much.
Foer's bizarre mix of eroticism and WWII horror is somewhat disquieting.
At times the writing borders on histrionic – the melodrama between the grandfather’s lovers becomes ludicrous, and Foer exhibits the excruciating desire to excavate each human emotion from his personnel as his contemporary Lydia Millet.That said, the one stream-of-consciousness scene turns out to be the most powerful moment in the novel.
There’s also a scene of gruesome slaughter that ranks as one of the most naturally horrific depictions of WWII horror that I've ever read.
Foer is a compassionate writer, but at times I felt this compassion giving way to a detached glibness that soon bored me.
“I had performed recklessly well in my second year of English at university.
This was a very majestic thing I did because my instructor was having shit between his brains.” Said Alex.Two revelations shortly after starting the book: 1) I’m gonna have quite a joyride with Alex; 2) My English education in China was far from "first-rate".
If without the, at best, run-of-the-mil magical realism half, I'd have given it a 4 stars.After being enthralled by Nicole Krauss' The History of Love, I just wanted to check out one of her then husband's titles.
Well, Nicole won the first round hands down.
A twenty-year old American Jew, whose name just happens to be Jonathan Safran Soer, travels to Ukraine in an effort to locate the site of the village of Trachimbrod that was razed by the Nazis in 1942.
First, after he returns home, Jonathan sends chapters of his novel-in-progress to Alex.
(I realize that only readers of a certain age will understand the Crosby and Corey references, but it’s the best I can do.)Third, are the letters that Alex writes Jonathan.
Jonathan’s account of Trachimbrod is written in a magical-realism vein that I don’t particularly care for.
I was in pain from laughing so much during the first part of this book. I've never enjoyed a "non-native" English speaker's writing so much. Although it gets less funny and more serious as it progresses, and it occasionally treads on the unclear / confusing side of things, I think that's just part of it: you aren't supposed to fully understand everything that's happening. All in all, one of the most memorable books I've read in a while.
Splendido
Il peso del passato oscura la vita presente nelle forme dell’incertezza, dell’angoscia, del senso di perdita soprattutto perché i segreti vengono trasmessi alle future generazioni attraverso l’ansia degli adulti senza alcuna possibilità di trasformare questa ansia in parole, che aiuterebbero a dare un senso alla sofferenza e al senso di mancanza che dolorosamente può diventare la base su cui si edifica la personalità.
Jonhatan decide di partire per l’Ucraina alla ricerca di questa donna; non sa bene il perché, ma sa che deve cercarla per capire meglio se stesso e conoscere questo nonno di cui sa solo quello che gli è stato raccontato dalla nonna.
Alex's subsequent letters to Jonathan, written in a bizarre, highly ornate and seriously mangled kind of English, make up the second storyline.
Together, the three storylines tell a tale of friendship, guilt, family secrets, atrocities, opportunities, dreams and ways of dealing with drama which is at turns funny and shocking and occasionally beautifully nostalgic.As I said, there is much about the book that is to be admired.
And then there's the book's main gimmick, which is Alex' mangled English.
I'm pretty sure he'll mature into an excellent author; this story just happened to come a bit too early in his career to live up to the hype.
