https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/380680.What_Do_You_Say_Dear_
Since I'm not generally sensitive to this sort of thing (and often sensitive to its opposite), I suspect people who are will be too much distracted by questions like, "Why doesn't the girl slay the dragon?" However, I can avow that my wife absolutely loved the book, perhaps more than I did, so don't let this slight misgiving keep you or your children away from this joyful little book.
And of course my big sister hated it.
It's a book about manners, how you always have to be polite no matter the situation and apologize when screwing up or doing something wrong.
I have no idea whether this had any impact on me, or my manners, but I obviously still remember it two decades later.It is silly and fun in an adorable way.
I noticed a couple of people dissmissing it because of the gender normative illustrations and descriptions, and that is of course problematic, but I have to say that as a child I really did not notice this aspect.
Full of delicious fantastical imagination and, of course, the very best manners! Charming! :-)
It peeved me a bit that the girl has to be the shopper, nurse, and rescued princess while the boy gets to fly a plane, fight a dragon, and make a pet of an elephant, but otherwise this is a super cute little book and a painless way to get the basics phrased of politeness instilled in kid's memories.
I enjoyed this one a lot more than the kid I happened to be reading it to.She is 4 (or, as she will tell you, 4 and 3/4) and seemed to regard this book as practical advice for dealing with basic everyday interactions.
I'll be honest and skip ahead a bit by saying I, personally have no problem with ANY of this book - but in this case I can really see why some people do.
The scene is a bit explicit, and the Western is no longer a popular form of drama anyway so it's not like this situation is likely to have come up in your child's play.However, as nobody actually gets hurt, I'd say most kids won't even notice to be upset.
I do not believe that this is in any way linked to actual violence when these children grow up.Obviously if your child is bothered by this sort of pretend violence, don't read them this book.
The boy character gets to receive a pet baby elephant, rescue a princess from a dragon, portray a cowboy, be bitten by a dinosaur, be the groom at a wedding, attend the princess's ball, visit London to dine with the Queen, fly an airplane to visit the Duchess, and invite all his friends over for a party.
This one is a lighthearted satire of these types of books, with silly situations that kids are never going to get into, like being a cowboy, or being menaced by a dragon.
I didn't like this when I was kid. I can't imagine that my kids would have liked it when they were young, either. And I don't care for it much now, though at least I can imagine, this time, how some folks would love it. But the sexism still dates it, and makes it problematic.We just learned manners from practice in the real world, you see!
I couldn't find the French edition listed, which is what I read in attempts to practice my French literacy. It was a cute read. Wish I had picked it up in time to have read it with my French first grader, dommage.
This was one of my favorite books as a child. The format, where the question is asked on one page and you turn the page for the answer, is very appealing to kids who like surprises. The illustrations add humor and deserved the Caldecott Honor.
33 months - O sits very still and listens intently but I don't know if she's really getting anything from this read or if she's in awe of the bizarre scenarios. Still a good read and lots of good manners displayed.
What a great fun way to teach children good manners. With drawings by Maurice Sendak. For example, what do you say if you get bit by a dinosaur and a nurse comes and saves your life? Also I wish I could give copies to some of my clients.
The only manners I've ever learned were from this book.
...And goodreads reunites me with yet another forgotten book from my childhood!(I love you, goodreads.)
An entirely necessary and practical book for anyone hoping to enter proper society.
Literature Genre: Juvenile FictionAwards: Recieved Randolph Caldecott Medal in 1959Ages: 4-8 yearsThis is a book about manners, and it even states on the title page that it is "A handbook of etiquette for young ladies and gentleman to be used as a guide for everyday social behavior".
One thing to keep in mind is that this book was written in 1958, and the dialog and illustrations would have been more appropriate in that era, but problematic today.
The story is made up of imaginative scenarios involving a young boy and his ridiculous encounters with various characters, which are followed up by the question "What do you say dear?".
Their whimsical nature pairs perfectly with the text in this book.
The subtitle for this is "A book of manners for all occasions." Once you've read it, you know that Sesyle Joslin really meant ALL occasions - even very unlikely occasions!
What do you say, dear?" And of course, the answer is: "I beg your pardon." :) Such a fun way to learn proper manners for ALL occasions.
Every child should read this book at least once!Note: At my public library, this book is part of a kit which comes with an audio cassette of the story.
Sendak.
New York, NY: Harper Collins.This book is about manners.
It goes through different scenarios in which you are supposed to apologize.
The media used by Sendak for this book was painting.
Manners are something that all children should know and from this book students it shows the funny side of saying you're sorry.
After reading this book it would be beneficial to have students go over what kind of things they should apologize for.
I think this book should also be read towards the beginning of the year, so that way when conflict arises we as a class can refer back to this book.
• 1959 Caldecott Honor Book •This is such a cute and creative book!
I’m surprised I’ve never seen this format before - although I’m sure it’s out there.
It’s basically a bunch of scenarios and each ends with “What do you say, dear?” and the answers are various polite things to say like “I’m sorry” or “You’re welcome” or “No, thank you.” This would be a great read aloud book with kids, because they could try to think of what to say for all the bizarre and funny situations.
Really fun book!
Also, I really love the little dog in most of the illustrations!
Imaginative story about what you should say when using your manners. A made up scenario is given and then followed by the phrase, "What do you say, dear?" The next page follows with the proper answer such as "I beg your pardon." Each scenario warrants a different answer. Great story for making a picture in your mind and leads to great conversations about using manners. The illustrations are only in black, white, and blue, but clear, silly,and interesting. The story was written in 1958, but still is entertaining and relative.
This is yet another book of illustrations that won the Caldecott Honor.Published in 1958, it is one of Sendak's earlier works.Using silly situations to discuss the topic of manners, the author and the illustrator working together do not preach, rather they suggest appropriate behavior.The words Thank you, please, beg your pardon, excuse me and may I please be excused were once a part of our everyday interaction.Sadly, our social mores of this generation have stretched to rude curtness.
My favorite aspect of this book is that it is so cute and retro looking. The text is simple and easy for children to follow, but may be a little too easy. The illustrations are the same way. They are nice and simple, featuring a basic color profile of only black, white, and blue. While I can appreciate these things as an adult, i just don't know if this book still has what it takes to keep children interested.
This book -- a funny introduction to manners for children -- was so indelible that I carried it in my memories for three decades -- long enough for it to be reprinted and a search for it to bear fruit. The situations posed are silly, and made more so by Maurice Sendak's illustrations. But they do get the point across that life is improved with good manners and politeness. The sequel, What Do You Do, Dear? offers more of the same, also the return of Bad-Nose Bill.
We loved this book. I am the mother of two boys who are confident that they know the right way to do everything (7 and 4). Therefore, they do not need a manners book, Mo-om. But they were very open to guessing what to do in the case that you are picking columbines outside a castle's gates and a fierce dragon arrives on the scene, at which time "a brave knight gallops up and cuts off the dragon's head. What do you say, dear?"
A wonderful book about appropriate manners necessary in common situations: You are downtown and there is a gentleman giving baby elephants to people. You want to take one home because you have always wanted a baby elephant, but first the gentleman introduces you to each other. What do you say, dear?
This book is not in Emerson's personal collection. This is surprisingly the funniest children's book I have ever read!It is a book about manners but the stories are absolutely hilarious! Great drawings by the recently departed Marice Sendak (where the wild things are). I want to buy this book.
Love it. Although I did have to read it to my kids since they just couldn't catch on to the spelling. edited to add - Now that I've read other reviews, I'm wondering if our copy of the book is very different from others. The spelling is somewhat phonetic throughout. It's an Initial Teaching Alphabet version so not exactly phonetic but definitely makes me slow down while reading.
This is a charming little etiquette book aimed at teaching children manners through rather ridiculous scenarios--bitten by a dinosaur, bumped into a crocodile, fed so much spaghetti you can't get out of your chair--after which the reader is asked, "What do you say, dear?" It's not at all condescending and more than a little bit of fun, an enjoyable read for the whole family.
A cute question and answer book about manners, this book won a 1959 Caldecott Honor award. This book is way better than the "A Very Special House" that he illustrated for Ruth Krause, which won the Honor Award in 1954, and the illustrations really made the book awesome and funny. Recommended for ages 3-7, 4 stars.
