https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17851739-three-blind-mice
Trapped in by a snownstorm, the killer needs to be unmasked before its too late.The "Three Blind Mice" rhyme is the inspiration for this Christie short story.
In this regard, this work reminded me of 'And Then There Were None', where murder(s) take place in a secluded area and the basis of the story is a children's rhyme.
Wether a full length novel or short story, Christie delivers.
Requested by Queen Mary herself (as a gift for her 80th birthday), Christie turned 'Three Blind Mice' into 'The Mousetrap' and in 1952 it showed its first performance.
I kind of suspected who was the murderer in this short novella, but I enjoyed it anyway.
I kept trying to figure out who it was and I was so wrong! Loved it!

Tensely plotted, generally unpredictable, and thoroughly enjoyable. The story and characters definitely feel like a murder mystery rather than something that might actually happen, but that's a minor complaint overall.
That was pretty funny! I really liked it
Really fun read!
I can see why The Mousetrap is the longest running play in history. :)
There's a reason she's the best.
This's my third book for #24in48readathon, and my first Agatha Christie. I loved it.
I enjoyed it!
First Agatha Christie story, and I did really enjoy it! Falls along quite quickly and I found myself spending the entire time trying to guess the murderer. Each character has their own possible motives and own odd traits that seem to say they are the murderer. I still managed to guess entirely wrong, but it was enjoyable to get to the conclusion. I only hated that the book ends mere paragraphs after the killer is found, but that is the nature of a short story.
"Major Metcalf praised the coffee..."One of Christie's stories themed off of childhood nursery rhymes; this has always been a favorite of mine. Even after reading this several times, over the years, I'm always doubting my memory as accusations fly. Could it be him? No, it must be her. Roughly two hour read that paints a fine picture of humanities motley of personalities in everyday life.
This is the first time I'm reading Agatha Christie's Book. The story is pretty small and simple when compared to her other books. Of course even the book is titled " Three Blind Mice: A short Story" .It was Simple yet interesting and it kept me wondering about the Murderer throughout the course of the book. The Climax was Great and It surely wont leave you disappointed. I really liked this book and I'm looking forward to read more books by her.
A short murder mistery with the unforgetful Agatha Christie style.It does take you to the english countryside and to winter days full of snow (which I can only imagine for it doesn't snow where I live). Also, one can find out the culprit if paying attention to the little details in which Christie is master.
I wasn't sure how much I would like this story because it didn't feature any of my favorite sleuths, but I never should have doubted. Christie has created wonderfully complex characters in a short time and the twist in the end genuinely surprised me.
Because of course in the middle of my increasing pile of reading, I cannot not being distracted by Agatha Christie.
Did Mrs. Davies and the billeting woman happen upon the manor just be a pure coincidence?Who truly were Christopher Wren, Paravicini, and Giles? Why were they all so rigid/uptight when the police came, and why didnt any of them share any information?Also, its not that solvable a mystery is it? Everything is revealed at the very end, and it could easily have just been Major Metcalf as the perpetrator?Pretty terrible end IMO
Having actually saw the play form of this before reading, it was really cool to read the little bits and details I may have missed just watching it. The performance and acting was awesome and yet moving, so it made me look forward to reading this book. Christopher Wren is my favorite, crazy character!
She got me. I did not expect that the policeman did it. I was thinking Giles but as in every good mystery, suspicion was cast upon everyone, with the exception of the cop. A well-crafted fun read. I can see why the stage version has been so incredibly popular.
I woke up early, started reading and didnt get out of bed until I had finished. Very enjoyable.
I woke up early, started reading and didn´t get out of bed until I had finished. Very enjoyable.
Great fun!
It was ALRIGHT. I wasn't particularly interested in the actually mystery after a few days of receiving it. Perhaps I'll like it more after re-reading it again. Who knows.
As usual, she had me stumped. Good one!
excellent story...
I personally found the big reveal a little predictable, but then again who doesn't like guessing the murderer correctly when paying attention to the clues?Very good short story.
Short story version of the famous play. Not as fleshed out and therefore less fun.
(hide spoiler)] I also think that the play better explains why (view spoiler)[Paravicini is weird -- it's only a brief mention in both works, but I missed it entirely in the short story (I guess I was otherwise caught up in figuring out who the murderer was?).
(hide spoiler)] I also think this ending would have been a lot more shocking and satisfying for me if I hadn't (view spoiler)[just read Hercule Poirot's Christmas, in which the murderer also turns out to be the police officer -- the only difference here being that Trotter is only posing as a police officer.
A classic set up with everything you could want from a whodunit:1) Old Country House2) Inclement weather making contact with outside world impossible3) Motley cast of English eccentrics (any of whom could be the murderer).Christie writes in a simple manner, effectively building suspense and allowing the reader to suspect the motives of a number of characters. The ending is a little too convenient for my liking, but one has to wrap these things up I suppose.
Novela muy original de Agatha Christie. Aunque tiene pocos personajes, Agatha logra que pensemos que el asesino sea otra persona. Me ha gustado mucho la ambientación en un paraje aislado y de difícil acceso. También los personajes están muy bien, todos tienen personalidades diferentes y lo que es mejor, un pasado con secretos ocultos,...De lectura muy amena. Muy recomendable.
