https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34051011-pachinko
I felt like the author created really grounded settings for the characters, and I enjoyed seeing how she moved the story forward with historical shifts and how that reflected in the fate of her characters' lives.Alternatively, that same thing I enjoyed sort of ruined the experience for me.
When will we see them again, if ever?" And on top of that, she literally ends chapters or sections of the book with something along the lines of [not a real spoiler, just an example]: "And then he died." And we find out in the next chapter that 5 years have passed, we are seeing everything from some other characters perspective, all this stuff in their lives has changed, and the dead character is briefly mentioned and never returned to.
History has failed us, but no matter. Look, I get it. A lot of people won't be interested in this book because they have no idea what pachinko means and what exactly is going on with that cover, anyway? We are highly susceptible to marketing techniques and the cover and title give us pretty much nothing. But hear me out for a minute because this book is really good.This is a historical family saga set in Korea and Japan throughout the 20th century. It follows four generations of a Korean family
It follows four generations of a Korean family through the political turmoil of Japanese colonization, the hardship of wartimes, seeking a new and better life in Japan, and witnessing the home they left become divided into two countries they hardly recognize.
Rich, detailed characterization draws us into the lives of these people and, at least for me, teaches us a chapter of modern history we might not have been aware of.Many Koreans found themselves forced to move to Japan to find jobs for their families, but they faced discrimination and disgusting living conditions when they arrived.
What a marvelous, deeply engrossing novel about four generations of a Korean family in Japan.
There was a lot of story here and a lot of history (of which I was woefully ignorant) and it is all rendered in impeccable prose with a touch of steeliness.
Toward the end of the novel, things started to feel a bit rushed, not enough time with the characters.
And certain folks just fell away but such is the nature of a sprawling multi-generational novel.
I read this in one day because I simply could not put it down.
By far one of the best books I've read this year.
Isak and Sunja traveled to Japan where they would live.
As Korean immigrants in Japan - Sunja, Isak and their young child, Noa, face challenges living in Japan.
Being Korean, Christian Faith, and a pastor's wife....
To me -- there are two stories going on - side by side: A political-historical story between the cultures - and relations between Korean and Japan from the early 1900's to the present day --- focusing especially on the period when Korea was under the Japanese occupation.
The 'blurp' to this book says it best: "One Korean family through the generations, beginning in early 1900s Korea.
While this novel begins in a village in Korea, most of the story takes place in various places in Japan, but this is a Korean story about four generations of a family spanning decades.
So many things are depicted here - family bonds and love that moved me to tears at times, the discrimination of Koreans, even those born in Japan, culture and religion, identity, not just based on your birth place but who your family is .
While this is about that experience of Koreans in that time and place, it is ultimately about good, honest, caring people who manage to move through their lives as they deal with the things that life hands out to everyone including illness, death, disappointments.
Throughout the novel we see the consequences of this choice, both through the joys of this family as they support and survive with one another, as well as the challenges and losses they experience as Korean immigrants in an unforgiving new country.I feel so humbled and impressed by how Lee intertwines the personal and the political in Pachinko.
As a second generation Vietnamese American living in the United States, I have felt so inspired by Lee's book to think about my family's many sacrifices coming to the United States, as well as the ways I have coped with and adapted to various forms of racism and colonization.
the Baek/Bandos are a layered, loving bunch with some difficult relationships between them but all sharing a passion to succeed, to carve out a home and a family, to be an example (most of the time) of good, hardworking Koreans in Japan, to transcend their marginalization and be seen, be worthy.I would heartily recommend this to lovers of family and historical epics of varying lengths, lovers of beautiful but easy reading prose and where lots of plot and events are occurring but the writing is calm so you don't feel overwhelmed by the action, and those with an interest in Japanese and Korean-set historical fiction and really getting a painless education into a complex political and cultural connection.
I am!The first third of this book is nearly a 5 star perfection for character development, place reality, era feel, and boding wars of surround.
The pure core of clearness for the first Korean situation is getting more progressively lost.And then the last third of the book from the late 1960's onward to its conclusion!
We find none of the individual character self-realizations or deep core connection coming from text connotation or the visuals (as went so beautifully within the first third of the book).
This decision on where to live FOR that identity of the individual- quite another whole book.
In the sweeping and monolithic Pachinko, Min Jin Lee documents four generations of a Korean family in Japan from 1910 to 1989.
It theorises on an ugly aspect of Japanese society and the people who struggle against this open prejudice.What I know about the history of Koreans in Japan wouldn't fill the back of a postage stamp.
One of the novel's best characters, the Dickens-loving Noa, is described as having to 'pass' for Japanese and even hides his true Korean identify from his wife and children.
Pachinko can also be likened to the lives of the numerous characters that populate this generational family saga and historical fiction novel.
Some of the characters in this book work for or run pachinko parlors, but the reader spends very little time in these gaming facilities –I would have been running in the other direction otherwise!What this book does provide us with is a rich story about a family that finds its roots in Korea during the early 1900s and straight through to late 1980s Japan.
So, the family remained in Japan and made a life, despite the oppression and limitations they faced.
You learn the strife of Koreans living in Japan, the racism that they faced, assimilating into Japanese culture, the customs and ways of the Japanese.
You learn of the Pachinko parlors as one family member runs.
I was really loving it, thinking it might be a 5 star read, but then it seems to throw in so many topics, and some were glossed over, or I did not get the resolution I desired.
I might have gone lower on my rating but I loved more than 2/3 of the book, I couldn't let that ending drag it down.
Though focused on Koreans, much of the book takes place in Japan.
Truth be told, we then become the receptors marked by the shadows of others upon us.....given and taken away.Min Jin Lee begins her story in 1910 in Yeongdo, Busan, Korea with Hoonie, plagued by physical impairments, and his wife who live in a small fishing village.
These are the first stones in this multigenerational family mosaic.
It is now that Sunja's stone in the mosaic will take a curved turn.
This stone is cast farther into the unknown.Sunja and Yangjin will live with his brother and sister-in-law in a tiny house in the part of the village designated for Koreans.
It’s described as an epic tale of generations of Koreans in Japan and epic truly describes it.
And I knew nothing about the Koreans that actually lived in Japan.
There are multiple points in this book when the way the Japanese treated the Koreans reminded me of how blacks were treated here in the US.
And the same belief by the underclass that they needed to be so much better to make it.
This is a long book but it’s a fast read.
I almost felt the book would have been stronger if it had ended sooner.
Told in chronological order, this book spans 4 generations and nearly a century of time and focuses on Zainichi or ethnic Koreans living in Japan.
These Zainichi are essentially stateless citizens registered to Joseon or a unified Korea that hasn’t existed since the Korean War. Up until recently they had to apply for alien registration cards that required fingerprinting every three years and were rarely granted passports making overseas travel impossible.
In Japan, ethnic Koreans are seen as second class citizens and even now are still shut out of higher positions.
We follow a Korean family struggling to survive in that environment.
!! NOW AVAILABLE !!3.5 Stars rounded upPachinko is a sweeping family saga listed as being for readers of The Kite Runner and Cutting for Stone.Following one Korean family through the years from Yeongdo, Busan, Korea where a poor fisherman and his wife give birth to a young infant boy.
“The bride and groom met on their wedding day, and Yangjin had not been scared by his face.Pregnancies followed, but it is through their fourth child, Sunja, that the story continues.
In Japan, Sunja and Pastor Isak Baek live with his brother, Yoseb, and Yoseb’s wife Kyunghee in a small home in Osaka.
I don’t know about you, but I *adore* reading books with titles that I don’t quite understand.
You expect the worst to happen – and it almost does – but then someone saves the day, like the time when Sunja was in danger and a hero appeared.
– but it’s part of what makes this book this book if you know what I mean.
It’s a slow, long tale to be devoured in parts.
It’s a book that asks to be analyzed, or at least pondered at times.
It’s not a story that should simply be read and then closed and put away.
If I could, I'd give this audiobook 10 stars for writing & audio narration. The author is masterful at teaching us history, examing motives with a generous heart, and letting us think for ourselves. The audio narrator is amazing too.
A single, kind pastor, sickly as a child and unable to find a wife, offers to marry her and bring her to Japan to start a life together.Author Min Jin Lee takes us through the World Wars, the painful suffering and poverty of the Koreans in Japan, and the small victories of these family members.
The incredible generational saga is told with great description and background information about Korean-Japanese relationships, culture and class.
This epic story following a family of Koreans from 1910 to 1989 is a surprisingly easy read for such a long book.
The story starts on the small island of Yeongdo near the Korean port city of Busan in 1910, the year Japan annexed Korea.
This is just the start of a complicated story that embodies the collective experiences of Japan's downtrodden Korean population.I liked some of this book a lot - much of the social history was new to me and some of the characters were well drawn though others seemed more like ciphers and I got a bit bored with some of the modern part of the story.For the uninitiated, pachinko is a form of vertical pinball which became popular in Japan because it was one of the few legal forms of gambling and pachinko parlours are predominantly owned by Koreans.
The businessman cannot marry Sunja and she makes a marriage of convenience to a Korean Christian minister who takes her to Japan, where she lives the remainder of her life and raises her family.It's an interesting tale full of memorable characters and storylines.
Duh. Pachinko plays a significant role in this family's story.This is a lengthy book (485 pages) but it sure kept my interest and flowed well.
I had less interest in the stories of the later family generations, but that was mostly because the early part of the book was so spellbinding.I highly recommend this one to historical fictions fans, especially those interested in Asian culture.

First and foremost, "Pachinko" is an engrossing, wonderful novel - a saga that follows a family over decades and through immigration, misery and joy, and all that makes a human story richly fascinating.
This is another book which I hesitated over, after reading political analysis and commentary of the complicated history behind and within the story - the plight of Korea, the diaspora of its citizens who left due to outside countries' Empire building takeovers, their own brutal despots, wars, lack of available employment...
How do you make a home in a country that has "accepted" you as an immigrant, but doesn't act as though they want you?
Most characters felt over-simplified, with only two primary dimensions: selfish or altruistic, conventional or rebellious.
I was surprised that as an Asian immigrant I felt so little personal connection with the book.
I suspect it's because U.S and Japan are polar opposites for immigrants.
I was drawn by the buzz, but went into the book and noted down my initial thoughts here without reading any reviews.
Having read all GR friends' very mixed reviews, I share the thoughts on the educational value of the book in history and culture, the sheer number of characters and the lack of depth in most of them.
Then it was included in the shortlist for the Tournament of Books, so basically I needed to read it.
It also counts for the Reading Women challenge, as a book on their 2017 shortlist.
This checks a lot of boxes.I enjoyed the novel on several levels - I didn't know anything about what it was like to be a Korean living in Japan, and although many of them count as economic immigrants, there are families that have been in Japan for multiple generations and are still treated as outsiders or lower class.
And I think the research the author did with Koreans who lived in Japan really shows.
This family saga begins with a poor but loving Korean family and follows them through the next three generations and to Japan.
Although I was aware of the prejudice Japan had for Koreans, I really had no idea of the extent of it.It is difficult to discuss the book without giving spoilers.
I became very invested in the fortunes of this family.Pachinko is a game of chance, only not really.
Extremely popular in Japan it is a bit like pinball.
The game can be rigged by the owners so that the player may still win on some machines-but not all.
A lot like life in this book.
And that's pretty much the thing with this whole book: it's effective but a little dumb."Multigenerational family epic about people from a different culture" might not totally fire your jetpack but it does mine, I hear that phrase and I'm like sign me the fuck up, I get all excited.
I don't know, why are you reading books?
The book goes from 1910 to 1989 but it only alludes to the two-country thing.Anyway some of the Koreans were Christians, too, I guess?
If multigenerational family epics set in other cultures are your thing, read it; if they're not, don't.
PACHINKOMin Jin LeeMY RATING ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐PUBLISHER Grand Central Publishing/Hachette AudioPUBLISHED February 7, 2017NARRATED Allison Hiroto Absorbing and thought-provoking, PACHINKO will remain in your memory for years to come. SUMMARYPachinko is an addicting Japanese vertical arcade game, a cross between pinball and a slot machine. It’s a game of chance and the house odds are high. There are only a few winners, but lots of losers. PACHINKO, the book, follows one Korean family though four generations b
PACHINKOMin Jin LeeMY RATING 	⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️PUBLISHER	Grand Central Publishing/Hachette AudioPUBLISHED	February 7, 2017NARRATED 	Allison Hiroto	Absorbing and thought-provoking, PACHINKO will remain in your memory for years to come.
PACHINKO, the book, follows one Korean family though four generations between 1910 to 1989.
REVIEWA deeply compelling novel that weaves a family saga of resilience with the shocking history of the treatment of ethnic Koreans in Japan.
Whether it was operating a boarding house, or selling kimchi in the market, or working on a farm, the women find a way to survive the innumerable hardships placed in their path.
I'd be delighted to read the birth of a new member in the Baek family, only to be surprised by their assumption of the narrator role 10 pages and five years later.
The author's handle on the psychology of her characters is evident, and no doubt made possible by the 20+ years she cites it took her to write this novel.Thematically, Lee examines the difficulty experienced by Korean immigrants to Japan through the many different lenses of the Baek family members.
Throughout the book, Lee makes an addictive reading experience through the passage of time, but the way Pachinko ends made me feel as if the book could have continued on for an additional 100 pages.
I would give it 4 stars because I did really like it (not there with all out love) but I had to bump it to 5 for the fact that I couldn't put it down.
Beautifully written, poignant, sad, and matter of fact at times in regards to life in Korea/Japan in the years preceding WW2 through 1989, Pachinko will leave you thoughtful and perhaps a bit haunted in reflection on the characters.
(I don't reword the synopsis of the book in most of my reviews, just discuss my thoughts, feelings, and reactions).
Page 391 made me gasp out loud and promptly feel sick with sadness.
Feel like I’ve just read two separate books. I really enjoyed the first half, but not so much the second. The timespan this novel encompasses includes several generations of characters, however, I only really felt connected to the ones from the first part and I missed them in the second. Not crazy about the title & think a better one could’ve work better at representing the subject. I did love learning more about Korea and its resilient heritage. Overall, a good novel. 3.5 stars rounding up since Iloved the first half so much.
