https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71687.The_Umbrella_Man_and_Other_Stories
He liked the story though as as concept and I think the evidence of a historic time period was interesting.The Butler--this one was a bit over my 11 year old's head.
So far, I am pretty sure it is my 11 year old's favorite in the book.Taste--As I mentioned earlier, my son has snuck off with this book a few times and read some stories without me.
I have yet to discuss with the little one (this is the other story he read on his own); clearly the husband would have killed the wife with the axe, but is the saw any better?

The butler recommends that the husband buy expensive wines to please company, and the man slavishly follows the idea.
”The Landlady” (from ”Kiss Kiss”): A young man traveling to London on business stops at a bed and breakfast along the way, where a strange -- and slightly dotty -- landlady eagerly welcomes him.
”The Umbrella Man” (from ”More Tales of the Unexpected”): A mother and daughter meet a gentlemanly old man on a street corner, who offers them a beautiful silk umbrella in exchange for a pound note.
”Taste” (from ”Someone Like You”): A rich man with a beautiful young daughter hosts a dinner party, inviting a famous partaker of fine wines.
Bought this collection at Foyle's in London, because a) I was at Foyle's flagship store in LONDON, b) I was on a literary pilgrimage through the UK where I would be doing a presentation to the rest of my group about Dahl, and c) the only story I knew was the superb Royal Jelly.
Loved these stories, so chilling and wonderful!
Dahl's children's books are great, but his more adult short stories are DIVINE.
This was a great story, I thorougly enjoyed it. It makes you infer alot and has a great ending/cliffhanger!
He is a smart character that knows what he is doing
En coneixia, sobretot, aquell "L'Home del Sud" que també s'inclou en aquesta antologia, i que va tenir dos versions televisives en el serial d'Alfred Hitchcock (més una adaptació a càrrec de Quentin Tarantino a Four Rooms).El primer que xoca d'aquest recull és que està fet (en la seva edició original) amb la voluntat d'apropar els contes de Dahl als lectors més joves, tot i que un cop llegit es fa palès que són per a totes les edats, i que la mala bava hi és present de forma molt sibilina en la majoria d'ells.Potser es troba a faltar una mica d'introducció a cada conte, per a qui o per a on va ser escrit, l'any de publicació, etc, per posar-los en context.
Considerably more.This collection starts off with the zingers of "The Great Automatic Grammatizator," an indictment of greedy publishers and lazy writers (the message will never be outdated) that doubles as a plain fun story.Other shorties worth the look are "Parson's Pleasure" and "Mrs. Bixby and the Colonel's Coat" - karma, baby!
- and the sickest of the lot, "Royal Jelly." (Don't read if you're pregnant or may become pregnant - but do.)"Parson's Pleasure" and "Vengeance is Mine Inc." have stellar setups but precious little payoff.
Recopilación de 13 relatos de Dahl dirigida a adolescentes. Hay verdaderas joyas dentro ('Katina' me encantó) en las que prima el ingenio y el humor del escritor británico, así como el magistral uso de la tensión.
The Umbrella Man was an average story to me. It tells the story of a young girl and her mother, who come across a polite old man. The Umbrella man was easy to follow, and I did like the plot twist. But other than that, personally, this wouldn't be my go-to book. It isn't very descriptive, and it was somewhat of a bore. I recommend this book if you feel like a bit of light reading.
Not my favourite collection of Roald Dahl's short stories, but perhaps it's because they're meant for teenagers (which I didn't realise until I'd already got the book!)
Great read when being sick :)
Long Story Shrt The Story was Short
Cute and enjoyable but definitely not one of Roald Dahl's best works, I missed the typical traits of his writing.
The Umbrella man is a funny one :pI was surprised by the slyness of the main character.
I already read some of his books for children (like Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, James and the Giant Peach, Fantastic Mr. Fox and others) and I find his works a little bit inappropriate for kids (well, parts of his books) but on this collection of short stories, I can say that he is the best storyteller of all time. As in!
My particular favourites from the book were Mrs. Bixby and the Colonel's Coat , Royal Jelly and the books name sake The Great Automatic Grammatizator.
Royal Jelly is a story about a bee keeper and his wife who are worried about the fate of the young underweight daughter.
The bee keeper originally started using the royal jelly to cure his impotence.
The twist in the story is that the prolonged use of the royal jelly starts to produce some pretty weird side effects in both the bee keeper and his daughter.
I love Roald Dahl's stories to bits, but gave this volume four stars simply because his children's books are the ceiling for me.
.2.) Mrs Bixby and the Colonel's Coat I love the title of this story as it fittingly describes how the much sought after coat never ends up belonging to Mrs Bixby at all.
3.) KatinaI'm not sure if this story is based on true events which occurred while Dahl was working in the RAF, nevertheless it's incredibly touching and heartbreaking in the end.
Perhaps this is what Dahl imagines women fantasise about when they begin to grow tired of their husbands.
At first I wasn't sure what to make of the stories - they were all enjoyable, good reads, but overall they were all kind of quirky and dark, but I suppose that's really to be expected of Dahl.
There was one longer story in the middle though, 'Katina,' in which there wasn't much quirky humor at all but was overall a well written, serious story about war, which I couldn't help but believe came out of or was at least inspired by his own experiences in World War II.
Roald Dahl is the reason I love to read, and my inspiration to become a writer myself one day.
Dahl has a way of weaving the story together to make all the characters interesting and the plot engaging, even in a short amount of space.The different flavors of each story were delightful.
I couldn't help but laugh in delight as each of those stories came to an end.What else is there to say?
His children's books helped me gain a love for reading, and I'm happy to see that the spirit I found there exists here in his adult stories as well.
Hai mẹ con không đem theo cây dù nào nên phải đứng trú mưa, và một người đàn ông đã xin được đổi cây dù lụa đắt tiền của mình để lấy chỉ một bảng đi taxi về nhà "cho đôi chân được nghỉ ngơi".
Hai mẹ con cứ nghĩ đã gặp được một người đầy tự trọng, không chịu lấy không tiền của ai, mà ngờ đâu chỉ một lát sau đã thấy vấn đề xoay chuyển hoàn toàn khác.Những câu chuyện của Roald Dahl đều như thế, tình tiết rất kì lạ, nhưng lồng ghép bên trong là rất nhiều điều thú vị :)Một câu quote nhỏ: “Đừng bao giờ vội vã.

A very nice introduction to Roald Dahl's grown-up short fiction.
There are some out-and-out classics in here ("Katina" is one of the truly great World War II stories, and "Taste" is an absolute tour de force) as well as some good evidence of just how twisted the man's imagination was ("Man of the South" and "Royal Jelly").
All of them show what a master Dahl was at building tension and creating a creepy mood, and above all how skillful he was at moving the plot forward with dialogue.
Roald Dahl re-secured his place as my favorite author in this collection of short stories.
I picked up a used copy in Powell's City of Books when I was in Portland, and I am almost finished with it already.
You might remember "Lamb to the Slaughter," in which a woman kills her husband with a frozen leg of lamb (a Twilight Zone episode was based on this).
Well, that one ISN'T in here, but "Man from the South," on which Quentin Tarantino based his "room" in "Four Rooms," is.
So far, there isn't one single story in here that I haven't really loved.
A much-smarter friend recommended this to me, and lent me her library-borrowed copy, which shows a lot of trust. How could I not read it? I called her and asked her a question about it, one of the short stories that is, and she was afraid I was not "getting" the twist that each story provides at the end. I told you, she is much smarter than I. I got it. I did! It was a fun read, if not one that fills the reader with warm feelings of humanity's redemption. Hey, it is Roald Dahl!
13 stories from this book have a hilarious ending and some have a twist ending. You will not find a happy ending one. Some have a horror effect, quite smooth but it really makes me spooky. You always questioning what will happen at the end when you read it, until you find it by yourself.My fave stories are The Land Lady, Parson's Pleasure, The Umbrella Man, Royal Jelly.Roald Dahl is a good story teller indeed and am totally agree with that. *bowing*
If you're a fan of Dahl's writing for kids, you MUST try his stuff for grown-ups. That slightly macabre tint that he gives to everything works every bit as well for adults. Some of these were so funny I was laughing out loud, others so poignantly beautiful I was on the edge of tears. These are a great example of the fact that in Dahl's world, just like in Willy Wonka's Chocolate Factory, people always get what they deserve. Read it!
Roald Dahl is a great story teller! Every story is so different and I am impressed with how creative he is. I am always waiting for the twist at the end of the story. My favorite in this collection is Katina, which is more touching, serious, real and powerful than the other short stories in the collection. But I enjoy the darker or more light-hearted stories as well.
It's always nice to read a book purely for fun, not just because you have to! He was one of my favorite authors when I was younger, very fun and descriptive with his writing. All of these short stories have a fun twist at the end....but over time, the "surprise" ending starts getting more and more predictable. :)
Roald Dahl is my favorite- so I love discovering collections of his short stories I didn't know were in print. He wrote for adults for a while before he wrote for children. These are some of his short stories for adults and true to form they are weird and wonderful. I highly recommend if you're a fan of Dahl's work, or if you just need a dark comedy fix!
