https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12659.Texas
Quite a long time ago, I lived in Texas for a while.That is how I came to understand my distinctly European identity and education.
On the trip I brought Michener's monumental tale of Texas, spanning the centuries from the Spanish discoveries and settlement over the Alamo to modern oil and real estate empires.Reading and driving, I began to understand what surrounded me.
I imagine Michener trying to explore Texas to write its history, and the obstacles that he might have encountered.
To me, stranger in a strange land, the only way to solve the mystery of Texas was to read about its journey towards present times.
I believe this is one of the first behemoth books I ever read.
I know, hard to believe because one does not associate Texas with culture beyond bigots and barbecue, but there is diverse culture there if you know where to look for it, and as a professor at UT, Michener certainly took his time and exhaustively researched this book and uncovered a treasure trove of history and stories.
Two anecdotes: I recall reading about Texas' oldest church in the small town of Nacodoches which is on the way to Dallas coming from Austin.
The one that Michener book talks about you say?
Die einzelnen Kapitel, die je einen Zeitabschnitt behandeln, schließen jeweils mit einem Abschnitt der „Task Force“Während das erste Kapitel noch etwas spröde daherkommt, gelingt es Michener in den Folgekapiteln, interessante und glaubhafte Charaktere zu erschaffen, mit denen man sich teilweise identifizieren kann, was jedoch dadurch eingeschränkt ist, dass die Charaktere Menschen ihrer Zeit sind, deren Haltung zu Indianern und Schwarzen für uns heute verwerflich ist.Michener schont seine Leser nicht – Grausamkeiten werden in nüchternem Ton und ohne Weichzeichnung geschildert.
B. den Ölboom), beschränkt sich jedoch zu stark auf wirtschaftliche Aspekte, sodass ich sie regelrecht langweilig fand.Insgesamt ist „Texas“ jedoch wie andere Bücher dieses Genres eine kurzweilige und vergnügliche Quelle, mit der die Leser etwas über die Geschichte der Region lernen können.
I loved how Michener set up this story--a task force has been selected to research the curriculum that will be taught to schoolchildren regarding Texas history, and the history is told through the stories of their families (not the heroes--despite them being mentioned as well).
Michener's research in the affairs of Texas is astounding, and his writing was brilliant throughout.
At times, it feels as if Michener is being a little cynical or joking in pointing out some of the hypocrisies that present themselves throughout the story, and I really liked this!The only complaint I had about the book was the last Task Force meeting.
I have read most of Michener's work, and I rate Texas among the big three, not only in size but in quality.
I particularly like the way Michener presents the entire history of Texas, and yet focuses on the key aspects of change that make this region so interesting.
We see how cotton, cattle, oil, barbed wire, football, etc have changed the very culture of the people of Texas.
For all of this, it is a novel, with the sweeping epic qualities of Gone With the Wind or Michener's other great works.
The novel is as big as the state itself, and worth every minute of the ride.
Honestly.
A book nearly as big as the state which, unless you already love it, is somewhat impenetrable and unknowable.There's a meta-narrative within the book of a liberal family that moves to TX from Michigan and is "in, but not of" yet over a slow battle of attrition, eventually becomes so thoroughly Texan that they end up voting straight Republican while their now baton-twirling daughter marries a hulking Dallas Cowboys lineman and all is just about perfect.That's what I felt this book was trying to do to me, instead of making me appreciate, understand, or even LIKE Texas--it was trying to convert me.

There are some jewels in here, and the way he choose to structure the book is very interesting: the story within the story.Well, after about 2 years I have finally managed to complete this one.The first third was very hard to get through (remember that the entire book was over 1300 pages).
However, I only read it here and there when I was in the mood.I'm not sure how to rate this book.
Is it historical fiction?
The most interesting time period for me was the late 1700s to early 1800s.
Sure, some of the history was compelling and interesting.
Michener examines important events like the battle at the Alamo and the Civil War and factors like religion, the immigration of various different ethnic groups, oil and American football and examines how they affected the Texan spirit.At first I thought I was reading an okay, fairly slow book.
I think I am meant to feel like that as well.
I would have liked to find out more about what happened to the family of Mordecai Marr as they could have made an interesting example of an Hispanic-American family as compared to the all-Hispanic family of the post-Benito Garzas.
ISBN 0394541545Fictionalized history of Texas, 1535 through 1984.No likeable characters.Michener writes with worshipful admiration of men who steal, defraud, and murder, in pursuit of their own freedom to do as they will, to others’ cost.
276, 648–649)Men who casually steal their neighbors’ cattle, then murder those neighbors who return the favor.
The heirs of wealth gained by theft, murder, fraud, and corruption are here at the end of the story.
When his billionaire says, “Those who own the country ought to govern it,” Michener in his own voice calls this, “truth.” (p.
Michener descends to xenophobia, saying bilingual education will make the U.S.
Michener, as always, is long on tooth, but in "Texas" he broke up the time periods very nicely, by reverting to a modern day committee formed to research Texas history and propose guidance for the teachings of Texas history.
The interesting twist is that the committee members are decedents of those you read about in the historical fiction.
The book covers 1540 AD through 1983 AD.
Michener points out in an introduction where history is factual and where the stories are fiction.
Was fun to go back to that introduction after I finished the book.At 1400 pages, classify "Texas" as a tome.
Since moving to Texas three years ago, I have become curious about Texas history and culture, and this book familiarized me with both, and gave me perspective on the character and political views of Texans.
Some of the sentiments, while perhaps true in the minds of many Texans, had no place in a historical work:"[Scottish descendants:] would govern India and South Africa and New Hampshire, and wherever they went they would leave schools and hospitals and libraries, for they were the seeds of greatness and of civilization." p.
853Um, may I propose that it actually stems, of course, from the inherent agressiveness of men and their need to feel superior to women?
It took me so long to read this book.
Anyway, I really loved this book up until they started talking about Texas football (more than halfway through).
As a native Texan, I grew up learning a pretty one-sided view of Texas history.
This book tells both/all sides, and it's fascinating.
They bespoke past ages, the death of great systems, the miracle of creation and survival; they were walking reminders of a time when volcanoes peppered the earth and vast lakes covered continents.
They were hallowed creatures, for the had seen the earth before man arrived, and they had survived to remind him of how things had once been."
This is my 3rd Michener read, the others so long ago I forget except the titles.
Michener uses narrative characters past and present, lineage some factual some not, all aimed at the various Texas expansion from exploration through mid-80's real estate boons and broke.
He separates long chapters each with a special focus that make up the kaleidoscope of Texas, some of these issues are as relevant today as hundreds of years ago.
It's a big long travelogue of years chockfull of colorful personalities and lore, myths, legends.
The Texas Rangers.
I think Michener did a good job of tackling the various ethnic groups as well as the entire historical and geographic scope of Texas. He covers armadillos, the immigration issues and Texas football as well as the Comanche, Texas Rangers and other more historic things I assumed he'd include.
It took me a long, long time, but the book was still excellent. Not the best Michener I've read, but entertaining and as relevant as ever.
This book is the reason I’ve read so few others this year.
At 1322 pages (and small type), it beats "Atlas Shrugged" as the longest novel I’ve ever read.
Every 200 pages or so could be a novel in itself; some chapters begin in Scotland, Germany, and antebellum South Carolina, with 100 or so pages dedicated to descriptions and narratives before the characters immigrate to Texas.If Michener were able to update this book, he’s surely include things like the Bushes, Ross Perot, the continued immigration debate to the degree that Texas could eventually become a solid blue state, and probably even the San Antonio Spurs dynasty.Michener has written eponymous novels about "Alaska," "Hawaii," "Chesapeake," "Iberia," "Caribbean" and "Poland," as well as one on Jews and Jerusalem called "The Source." If they’re as well-researched, captivating and epic as "Texas," I’m going to have to read them as well.
Enjoyable read, but a heck of a slog.
It is a loooooooooooooooooong book.
I must admit though, that after reading this book I can understand why Texans feel such a proud attachment to their state.
If you are ready and willing to devout many evenings to this book, and understand that there is language used that you will likely find offensive, but are willing to accept the literary purposes necessary for the language used, I say go for it.
If not, you will not like it and there is a good chance you will not finish the book.
Again a tale of men (mostly) at their most heroic, resilient, and innovative and also at their most ignoble, unreasonable, greedy and grasping and (brutally) intolerant as it provides a broad pageant of history of what is now Texas...
The framing device of the task force is again Mr Michener at his most inspired and serves to create a viable lens for the stories of the Lone Star state down the ages - from the first Spanish settlements, the Americans' arrival, war and Independence, the Civil War, and the troubled legacy afterwards - Ku Klux Klan, oil discovery and the like.
Published in 1985 in the aftermath of Reagan's decisive re-election victory over Mondale this demonstrates the ability of Michener, a loyal Democrat, to understand and to sympathetically report on the ideas and motivations of his Republican fellow citizens.
Ransom Rusk, the main character of the latter chapters, is a hard working and patriotic Texas billionaire who evolves into a philanthropist.
Rusk's grandparents are also major and heroic characters who throw light on the very troubled relations between the Anglo-Saxon settlers of Texas and the American Indians they displaced.
The Hispanic heritage of this great and influential state is also vividly brought to life through the characters Benito Garza, Eloy Muzquiz and his daughter Enriqueta, among others.
4 stars because Mirabeau Lamar got a serious spit shine (gleaming glory-style); education in Texas (actually it's an impressive attribute of the state's citizenry) gets short shrift; and because the rich history of achievements and contributions by Texas blacks and women goes unrecognized. Overall, a most enjoyable read for someone who typically shuns historical fiction because of the unnecessary license taken with fact and fancy.
Finished! This is well worth the time it takes to read it and I especially loved reading about so many places I recognise. I think one huge omission was a chapter about the space program, but still a great read.
There’s a brief interlude where the present day committee learns about Methodists and how they came to Texas to be super religious AND hypocritical which is why Texas likes to claim a moral uprightness while at the same time being pro-slavery and having lots of murderers and degenerates.Part 5: This chapter starts out about more people from Tennessee coming down to Texas and that the influential ones were Irish but then jumps to early 1800s Scotland and goes on about the MacNabs and their smart kid and how Catholics are just the worst.
It has taken me 2 months to read this book ( I read easy books in between) because it is so long and full of historical facts woven into the lives of the different kinds of families who made up Texas. The last 300 pages were definitely not page-turners but after investing so much time in the book, I had to finish it. I have to give the author 5 stars because I know how much time and effort he put into his research.
One of the great novels and authorAnother epic saga from a master story teller, what a great author! I look forward to many more great reads.
I finally finished this mammoth, nearly 1100 page novel about Texas history.
But I'm glad I pushed through and finished it.Michener generally starts with a couple of main characters and weaves a story of that family through time, tying in the history of a state with the fictional story he has created around it.
There were many instances throughout the novel where Texans took things into their own hands and got things done - things, that are often left to the law or other organizations dedicated to the task.There were times when I felt the book could have used a better editor (especially during the "task force" chapters), and there were times when I wished the author had spent more time on one subject and less on another.
I very much enjoyed the state of 'Hawaii' (beautiful beaches, parks, flowers, green hills everywhere) but didn't care much for the state of 'Texas' (the beaches don't really count as they are only gulf beaches, it's relatively flat and brown everywhere). And, as art does imitate life often, I felt the same about the books. (I know many people love the state of Texas, especially those born there, it's just that I like beautiful, turquoise water when I go to the beach, and I like lots of green everywhere.)

I have read Hawaii and Chesapeake before this and am a fan of James Michener. He combines a huge amount of historical information with popular culture and a cracking good story line to keep the reader going along happily even through a 1,000+ pages. I liked this novel even better then the others I had read and have a much better undertsanding of all the strands - Indian, Spanish, Mexican, Southern, Western - that came together to make up this unique state.
I love James Michener, and I can say that I have loved him for years, although Texas is the first book I read by him. Upon doing this I realized that I only loved J.A.M for his money. Ah Me. The book was awful, and its mass was even awfuller. He could have done so much more with so much less. Oh well, I loved it because it made the man a lot of money, and that allowed me to eventually have a garden in Austin.
