https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/141328.Vertigo
For any good cinephile the standard line is that on its way to the screen Vertigo (1958) radically transformed its original source material, the (relatively) obscure French mystery novel written by Pierre Boileau and Thomas Narcejac, most commonly known by the portmanteau moniker “Boileau-Narcejac.” This transformation directly resulted in what many feel is not only Alfred Hitchcock’s most deeply and intensely personal film, but one of the greatest films of all time.
از میان مردگان یک کتاب رمان با داستان جنایی از نویسندگان فرانسوی بوالو-نارسژاک است که در سال ۱۹۵۴ نوشته شد.آلفرد هیچکاک کارگردان شهیر آمریکایی، فیلم سرگیجه را با اقتباس از این رمان در سال ۱۹۵۸ روی پرده سینما برد.از میان مردگان معروفترین رمان این دو نویسنده جنایینویس است و با نامهای سرگیجه و عرق سرد هم منتشر شده است. داستان رمان با فیلمی که هیچکاک ارائه میدهد تفاوتهایی دارد و از نظر ظرافت، هیجان و درک بهتر، قلم کتاب از فیلمنامه جلوتر است ولی از نظر سیر داستانی و سرانجام یکسان است.
از میان مردگان یک کتاب رمان با داستان جنایی از نویسندگان فرانسوی بوالو-نارسژاک است که در سال ۱۹۵۴ نوشته شد.آلفرد هیچکاک کارگردان شهیر آمریکایی، فیلم سرگیجه را با اقتباس از این رمان در سال ۱۹۵۸ روی پرده سینما برد.از میان مردگان معروفترین رمان این دو نویسنده جنایی‌نویس است و با نام‌های سرگیجه و عرق سرد هم منتشر شده است. داستان رمان با فیلمی که هیچکاک ارائه می‌دهد تفاوت‌هایی دارد و از نظر ظرافت، هیجان و درک بهتر، قلم کتاب از فیلم‌نامه جلوتر است ولی از نظر سیر داستانی و سرانجام یکسان است.
Especially in the first part [my division] of the movie the viewer is focused on the pathology of Madeleine (played by Kim Novak); whereas in the second part Scotty (played by Jimmy Stewart) becomes somehow pathological (melancholic) due to the presumed death of Madeleine, the person he was in love with.
But since he’s not careful enough he loses his second chance: he loses Judy too, in fact Madeleine under disguise.
About the movie Hitch commented it was a chance for Jimmy Stewart to “indulgence in a form of necrophilia”.
A psychological thriller about a lawyer known as Flavières and his relationship with Madeline the wealthy wife of an old friend. What starts out as fascination soon turns into a spiral of obsession, mystery, reincarnation and alcoholism. You know that Flavières is doomed from the start as you watch him spiral out of control and lose touch with reality.Loved the atmosphere and setting of pre war Paris and this translation suited the mood, tone of the story. No real surprises at the end though, couldn't really see it turn out any other way.
Originally titled D'entre les morts, "Among the Dead" it is based in Paris during the years just before and shortly after the German occupation.
For a long time I had no idea where this story was going.
I have a copy of the movie on hold at the library.) The ending totally took me by surprise, which made up for a few slow spots in the third quarter that bordered on tedious.
Bottom line: This book has been on my tbr list for a few years and I am glad that I finally read it.
I guess it's a case of "I've seen the movie and the book doesn't match" or something along those lines, but I focused entirely on the novel, putting the movie completely out of my head as I read it.
I've written about this book at the  crime page of my online journal; what I will say here is that even if you've seen the movie and then later read all about the movie, well, you still haven't read the novel.
Quando un romanzo ti prende tanto da farti provare angoscia, paura, ansia e rabbia, io penso che abbia colto nel segno.Se poi, come questo, è un giallo denso di atmosfere noir (e Parigi si presta magistralmente allo scopo), di ossessioni e incubi, con misteri e colpi di scena sino alla fine… bisognerebbe farne un film!Ops, qualcuno ci ha già pensato regalandoci un capolavoro: Vertigo, uno dei più belli del maestro Alfred Hitchcock.
From among the dead...As Paris waits uneasily for war to begin, Roger Flavières is approached by an old college friend, Gévigne, who puts an odd proposition to him.
As it begins to diverge in the second half I found it completely riveting as it drove inexorably towards its darkly satisfying ending.Unusually for a Hitchcock film, I think the book actually delves more deeply into the psychology and makes it more credible.
Hitchcock's decision to elevate the importance of the vertigo aspects somehow makes his Ferguson a less complex and intriguing character than Boileau-Narcejac's Flavières.
Il romanzo narra un'ossessione che si avvita su se stessa fino a fagocitare l'uomo che ne è vittima.Per buona parte del libro ho rimpianto il film di Hitchcock, perché pur seguendo il tormento del protagonista ho faticato a lasciarmi coinvolgere dalla narrazione e dal mistero che avvolge la donna oggetto di tanta fatale passione.Le cose sono decisamente migliorate nel finale, grazie all'accelerazione ed al crescendo allucinatorio che trova finalmente sbocco.Non è un'opera memorabile e non mi ha lasciato il desiderio di leggere altro degli autori, ma ogni tanto l'immersione in un'atmosfera rétro non mi dispiace.
it's the whole movie-- structurally-- beginning to end; only in france, during WWII, and minus a few keys things:1) jimmy stewart (this guy's just a hopeless asshole loser)2) kim novak (there's no magic and the love story's unconvincing)3) the character midge (without whom, no hope of normalcy)4) the inquest scene (for me, always the most painful part)5) the final, all-important re-creation scene (and the overcoming of the main character's vertigo)it's easy to understand how the first four might be missing from the original, but the last is just kind of mind-blowing.
Επιτέλους το έκανα, γιατί ήθελα να δω κάποια στιγμή και την ταινία, η οποία και αυτή με περιμένει με παράπονο.Λοιπόν, πρόκειται για ένα ιδιαίτερα καλογραμμένο, ενδιαφέρον και οπωσδήποτε ατμοσφαιρικό μυθιστόρημα μυστηρίου με σασπένς, εκπλήξεις στην πλοκή και πάρα πολύ καλή σκιαγράφηση των χαρακτήρων.
Γενικά πρόκειται για ένα μυθιστόρημα που αξίζει να διαβάσει κανείς γι'αυτό που είναι και γι'αυτά που προσφέρει, και όχι γιατί απλά αποτελεί την βάση για μια από τις σημαντικότερες ταινίες του Χίτσκοκ.
Από μόνο του είναι ένα βιβλίο έντονο και ενδιαφέρον, οπωσδήποτε ψυχαγωγικό αλλά και ουσιώδες.
In questo caso forse no, ma quella di D'entre les morts – uso il titolo francese così non ci confondiamo tra romanzo e film, che invece in italiano hanno lo stesso nome – è stata una lettura notevole, di quelle che lasciano il segno.La storia all'inizio è più o meno la stessa, ambientata però in Francia anziché a San Francisco, mentre da un certo punto in poi troviamo delle piccole ma significative differenze, per cui le due trame non si allontanano davvero ma non sono più sovrapponibili come nella prima parte.È anche molto importante la collocazione temporale della storia originale: i primi tempi della Seconda Guerra Mondiale, quando a Parigi in pochi temevano che i tedeschi avrebbero invaso la Francia, e poi, dopo uno stacco di cinque anni, l'immediato dopoguerra, con le macerie e la distruzione, tra cui chi può cerca di riprendere la vita come era prima, ma non ci riesce mai davvero.Perché la copia non è mai come l'originale (per non parlare del fatto che quale sia l'originale e quale la copia è un concetto relativo).
I've been getting around to reading some of the novels and stories that Hitchcock based his movies on.
I've seen "Vertigo" starring Jimmy Stewart a couple of times but it isn't one I know too well.
Going into the book I was looking forward to the big Vertigo scene in the church tower.
I vaguely remembered the plot but did know what the big reveal was.
The book is divided into essentially two parts: the before and the after of the big event which happened at exactly 50% on my kindle.
None of the characters are to be liked and I was surprised at how close the movie had followed the book.
The wartime backdrop is removed in Hitchcock’s film, and the focus falls more closely on the characters of Scottie and Madeline.When Flavieres/Scottie are called up by an old friend (Gevigne/Elstir) and shipping magnate to watch his wife, he reluctantly accepts though he is skeptical of the verity of Madeline’s being possessed by the wayward spirit of her dead ancestor (Pauline Lagerlac/Carlotta Valdez).
While Flavieres is often in a fog, at turns literal and metaphorical, Scottie’s San Francisco is preternaturally (for the locale) clear-skied – and Scottie’s voyeuristic obsession and later madness is brutally clearsighted.When the book is stripped away, what remains is Hitchcock’s love letter to San Francisco – a city whose hilly topography and thick matte air lends itself so well to the meandering mystery of Madeline.
Şapka çıkaralım. Okuyalım, okutalım.
Se si pensa a La donna che visse due volte forse, oggi, vien prima in mente la sua controparte cinematografica (titolo omonimo o, in inglese, Vertigo, di Hitchcock) che non quella cartacea.Nonostante l'abbia visto anni e anni fa quando ero più piccola e ora non lo ricordi nella sua interezza, ricordo bene il fascino calamitante di quel film che riusciva - e sicuramente riesce tutt'oggi - a farti tenere gli occhi incollati allo schermo.Contrariamente ad altri, io ho riprovato questa sensazione anche leggendo il libro da cui ne è stato tratto.Il libro si apre con la scena di due vecchi amici, Gévigne e Flavières, che si reincontrano dopo molti anni.
They wrote it with him in mind.If you have seen Alfred Hitchcock’s VERTIGO, you will see that it was a remarkably faithful adaptation of the book.
The best reason I can think of for the VERTIGO film fan to read the VERTIGO book is for the backstory and a deeper exploration of the character motivations.
The writers seem to take a special delight in exposing us to the mysterious or unusual, and then allowing us to supply our own interpretation until it is time for the final revelation.If you’re new to VERTIGO, there is quite a bit to enjoy.
Although it is firmly a mystery novel, it is different from most that I’ve read.
I had initially assumed it was a new translation, but it's actually (I think) a reissue to tie in with the launch of Pushkin's Vertigo imprint, dedicated to 'writers of the greatest thrillers and mysteries on earth from countries around the world'.
(I really want to cut 'on earth' from that sentence) (and possibly 'countries') Adding to the confusion (which is perhaps very apt for this novel), I was half asleep when I read it.
So I can't write anything much in the way of a review, but I did really enjoy this noirish mystery and tale of obsession; it's a quick read with a great ending.
در میان مردگان، یا از میان مردگان، در سال 1954 نوشته شده، هیچکاک با نام سرگیجه، آن را بر پرده ی سینما برد. بوآلو - نارسژاک، از جنایت حادٍثه ای می سازند که، از رویارویی هیجانات و دلمشغولی ها، به وجود می آید. و از این طریق، به جایی دست می یابد که به تعبیر روژه کایوآ این رمان پلیسی، دیگر بازی ذهنی مستقل از داده های ملموس نیست. به رمان واقعی تبدیل شده است
شش صفحه آخر کتاب را که میخواندم تصور نمیکردم با داستانی جنایی سر و کار داشته ام. انقدر که درگیر جنبه عاطفی داستان شده بودم. با اینکه میدانستم هیچکاک فیلمی با ژانر پلیسی از این رمان ساخته. خوب غافلگیر شدم ...خوب
Bir sinema sever olarak, Alfred Hitchcock' un sinema tarihinde önemli bir yere sahip aynı isimli uyarlamasını izledikten sonra haberdar oldum kitaptan.
Alfred Hitchcock'un "Vertigo" su benim için de çok önemli bir film.
Öncelikle nerede okuduğumu hatırlamamakla birlikte Alfred Hitchcock'un bir sözü vardı: "Ucuz romandan iyi film çıkar.".
Burada ucuz romandan kastettiğinin hikaye ve onun gelişiminin anlatıldığı, olay odaklı,kolay okunan kitaplar olduğunu sanıyorum ki "Vertigo" da bu dediğini karşılamakta.
Filmi izlemiş olduğum halde okurken sıkılmadım kitaptan, özellikle kurgusu gerçekten kendine çekiyor, kitabı kolaylıkla okutuyor.
Genelde kitaplar filmi yerini tutmaz ama burada tam tersini yaşadım.
Vertigo hayatım filmlerinden biri ama kitap için aynı şeyi söyleyemeyeceğim.
Projeto #viagemdovertigo ❤️
A man tormented by his search for the truth, and ultimately destroyed by a dark, terrible secret.A bit of classic crime fiction with French double act Boileau and Narcejac’s 1954 book Vertigo – the basis for Hitchcock’s classic film.--------------My take.....Set in war-time Paris, former detective Flavieres is asked by an old friend Gevigne to keep an eye on his wife.
Flavieres again, overcome by vertigo is impotent and unable to prevent her sudden actions.At this point in reading, I realised I had seen the film albeit some years previously.
Great read4.5 out of 5.I’m tempted to re-watch the film soon.
The novel was published in an English translation in 1956 under the title The Living and the Dead and Hitchcock’s film followed a couple of years later.They also wrote the book on which Clouzot’s Les Diaboliques was based and I’ve wanted to read one of their novels for years.
Could Flavières keep an eye on her?The wife, Madeleine Gévigne, seems to be obsessed with a long-dead ancestress, the mysterious Pauline Lagerlac.
Her behaviour whilst mysterious, is mesmerising and her beauty in the eyes of Flavières incomparable.
His obsession and the moral dilemmas presented to him by her husband’s insistence that he continue the friendship are understated, yet beautifully illustrated.
The reasons posited for her behaviour are unexpected and yet oddly believable, but nothing is ever that straight-forward and VERTIGO delivers some twists and turns and stings in the tail that make it end up sitting somewhere between a mystery and a morality play.Beautifully translated with nary a bump to be detected in the language, VERTIGO is complicated, clever and another of those wonderful, one sitting reading experiences.http://www.austcrimefiction.org/revie...
I bought this book in a remainder type of bookstore in London some years ago. I was very excited to find the novel, because I always have been a fan of the Hitchcock film version. Also being a fan of French crime fiction, it gave me that little push of interest.The book is very close to the film in many ways. Maybe not as obsessive as Hitchcock's own inspiration from the material, but nevertheless if you are a fan of the film, do try to locate the book.
Lo so, sono paragoni che non bisognerebbe fare, ma, a differenza del solito, ho preferito di gran lunga il film. Il vecchio pancione Hitch ne ha tratto un capolavoro.
Sono indecisa se fermarmi a 4 o dargli le 5*.Ammetto che del film mi è sempre sfuggito il significato (secondo me arrivavo mezza addormentata alla fine e, ops, mi perdevo la spiegazione del mistero!), ma ora ho capito e l'inghippo è davvero diabolico (poi so che qualcuno più sveglio di me probabilmente ci sarebbe arrivato prima, ma tendo ad essere ingenua con questo genere di libri e a lasciarmi trascinare dalla storia).
Detto questo, il libro è molto più oscuro del film.
Il James Steward di Hitchock è un personaggio integerrimo, un cavaliere pronto a salvare la sua principessa in difficoltà, Flavieres invece...
Flavieres è tutta un'altra storia!Super consigliato!
There was a time when the Alfred Hitchcock imprimatur on a book title was a marketing goldmine.
If you don't know what I'm talking about, then check this out: publication chronologyDuring those years (mid to late 1970's), I recall purchasing at least 15 or 20 short story anthologies in a paperback format, published by Dell.
Yes, Hitchcock did embellish the story quite a bit, and the film is a richer experience on many levels.
It should not be so completely overshadowed by the film.Not to mention that this old Dell edition has a fantastic cover!
Si, llegué a esta historia por la película de Alfred Hitchcook, con la promesa de una buena historia, que al final me enamoró por el gran trabajo psicológico que hacen los autores con Roger Flavieres, su protagonista.
El ritmo narrativo es bueno, a veces decae, a veces es ágil, pero con el propósito de mantener en suspenso al lector.
El final, sorprende si van de la mano del filme; y si no, es posible que no tanto porque va un tanto de acuerdo con lo que el relato va proponiendo, si bien éste parece ofrecer diversas salidas al conflicto.¿Y la adaptación de Hitchcook?
