https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119714.Porterhouse_Blue
It is up there with Anonymous Lawyer and What We Did On Our Holidays as another book where you can't keep your clothes clean what for sniggering, snorking and spilling as you give up all attempts to read any of those books quietly and with decorum.The book was supposedly based on Sharpe's alma mater Pembroke College, or the much older Peterhouse both very rich colleges as is the fictional Porterhouse.
One hopes that even if those colleges concentrated on gourmand professors eating gourmet food, with plenty of wine and money, that they do a lot better than the academically-undistinguished fictional one.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Timeless Humour: "Porterhouse Blues" by Tom SharpeIve lost count of the number of times Ive read "Porterhouse Blue". What memorable characters - Scullion, the reactionary porter who hates change and fondly recalls the good old feudal days when he used to get kicked by the aristocratic students. Sir Godber Evans, the wet former cabinet minister exiled to Porterhouse and his politically correct wife, Lady Mary, who wants to introduce hea
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Timeless Humour: "Porterhouse Blues" by Tom SharpeI´ve lost count of the number of times I´ve read "Porterhouse Blue".
What memorable characters - Scullion, the reactionary porter who hates change and fondly recalls the good old feudal days when he used to get kicked by the aristocratic students.
Sir Cathcart Death, head of the Porterhouse alumni association, who has a Japanese bodyguard, holds orgies in his stately home and tells Scullion to make sure the cook gives him tea on his way out.
Just like the book, real-world Porterhouse was, and continues to be, almost comically tiny, extremely conservative, ancient (1284, remember), appallingly wealthy, and with gourmet food every day.
The hilarity of Porterhouse Blue, then, is magnified for those that spot the similarity to real-world Porterhouse and its quirks, especially in the '70s.
For those that say real-world Porterhouse may have once been like its looking-glass counterpart, but is no longer, let me say this: much has changed, true enough (most of Sir Godber's policies are here to stay), but even more has stayed the same.
Another great comedy by Tom Sharpe. His prose is so captivating it is like one is actually there. The TV film adaption with David Jason drunk on the Dean's whiskey and chasing inflated comdoms around the university lawn...Timeless! 👍🐯

Porterhouse College is in Cambridge, England, and, as the cover says, is famous for rowing and low academic standards.
What Porterhouse needs is money so they will take any wealthy student whether or not that student knows how to put his shoes on the right feet.
Now, the all-male Porterhouse College has fallen on harder times and is considering admitting (gasp) women.
There are other changes proposed by the new headmaster, which is shaking the foundations of this hidebound institution with its heart in the Middle Ages.
This is a fun romp through academia, and would be appreciated by those who like P.G. Wodehouse.
This was very funny - in an English sort of way. However, it would have been funnier if it hadn't be so true.When you constantly meet people like the characters of this book they somehow quickly go from funny to annoying.All in all - a bitter-sweet experience, however the condom suicide was excellent!
This book is a trash fire. I don’t want to read about characters having rape fantasies, thanks, bye.
London Transport is a place where you want escapism, I read a lot of science fiction and also comedy, so a parody of the Ivory Towers of Academe looked like it might distract me from the rush-hour Tube.
Well almost all the books I read then I've forgotten, but Porterhouse Blue sticks in the memory because of the acute embarrassment it caused me.
You try not to make an exhibition and a fool of yourself in public don't you, you try not to choke and turn red in the face, accidentally guffaw spit on the person opposite, fall off your seat, poke your neighbor in the ribs, suffice it to say I did not keep my cool, this book is uncontrollably laugh-out-loud FUNNY.
Usually that is just change for change's sake.
Here it is vital as Porterhouse College is rotten to the core.But no one in this book is likeable nor do you need to 'identify ' with any character.
All the usuals are trotted out ...sex, death, corruption...but all with rollicking good humour.
And that which few British books are free of - their class/caste system.So...VERY British.

Hilarious satire of the power struggle between "keeping up-to-date" and tradition in 1970s Cambridge University college. The subplot about the research fellow & his bedder made me laugh out loud several times!
The satire of Small World (David Lodge) or Porterhouse Blue (Tom Sharpe) seems in principle like a safer choice, but even escapism can turn sour, leading some readers to anger or scepticism, particularly if they lose their sense of humour.
As it is well known, many members of the elite are still educated at public schools and Oxbridge colleges.In many respects, it is uncanny how familiar the universe of Porterhouse Blue can feel to readers in the twenty-first century.
I saw this book on someone's worst of 2017 video and it sounds fucked up. I'm here for this.
In places this book is absolutely hilarious. It is certainly a fun and easy read and well written. But after 200-odd pages I had enough of it and happy to move on to another book.
I’m not sure why this novel doesn’t feel just as funny as it did forty years ago. Two gross of propylactics filled with gas, floating over the college might have been laugh out loud stuff then, not so much now.However the scheming for and against the master is still clever rather than obvious, and the liberal but out of touch Lady Mary is inspired.
This book is just incredibly funny. Sharpe doesn't shy away from shocking and scandalous scenes in order to get his point across. The absurdity of Porterhouse is made clear. This is a serious issue with Sharpe driving the point home with brilliant humour.
Proof that humour dates. I found it hilarious in my 20s - not so on a re-read. I also loved The Young Ones (if you remember that series) and now it raises a marginal smile. Perhaps I've just become a miserable git?
Great read. Sharpe has more control in this novel than over his other works so that the bitter satire is complete with its black humor. It also offers one of the most bizarrely humorous sequences you could hope to read.
In both Wilt and this book he has a remarkable and biting view of the foibles of academe.
There is a retired general who is a graduate (and who most likely bought his degree) and has major influence in the affairs of the college.The characters are well developed.
The dialogue is just plain funny - there are places in the book where it is impossible not to laugh out loud.
If you worked in higher education as I did, or even if you went to a college or university - this book is worth the read (and the laughs)!
This took me a while to get into, but when I did I quite enjoyed it. The back compares it to Wodehouse and Waugh and I think I prefer both of those other two over this, but I can see why it draws the comparisons. This is bitingly black satire of life in an Oxford college and the class system - and it captures that very well, it just seems a bit unrelentingly harsh - there's no one here to sympathise or empathise with really, and that perhaps is the difference between it and Waugh and Wodehouse.
The beautiful thing about this book is the writing: simple, dry, dark humour and plenty of snark that leaves you in stitches and in awe.
I wouldn't say it's as good as Keller's or Durrel's — it definitely falls a bit short of those standards — but the narration is hilarious.
You get the most tragic events laid down in such simplistic and optimistic ways that you don't even realize how terrible some of the occurrences were until you think back on it.This was my first introduction to Sharpe, and I'm pretty darn satisfied.
It's been a while since I've found a book that's un-put-downable!
Hmmm no. I won't be reading any of Tom Sharpe's books. This books sees a "Shirley Williams/Roy Jenkins" type appointed to head a Cambridge college and try and implement the sort of 1960s/70s changes in education that occurred in England (at the time) in the college.It was daft book. I say because it was too stupid for words. The dons and porters were too "staid" and the loony lefties who were coming in were too stereotypically left-wing for words. It might have been funny at the time, but now... no.
An enjoyable read, the characters are well drawn and there are some genuinely funny episodes. I had read Blott on the landscape shortly before this and thought it was a little dated but here it works because it captures a moment in time.
It took me a bit to get the rhythm of this book but then it clicked. I think I'll continue on with the series one day.
Very funny satire on academia/politics/the media etc peopled with superb characters and excellent dialogue. Ran out of steam a bit towards the end, but still a good solid entertaining 4 stars.
Very strange - I suppose typical of the time period and definitely portrayed some of the difficulty with change.
Another really amusing book by Tom Sharpe, He's always a joy to read.
Funny, irreverent, still relevant today. Well worth a read :-).
I don’t quit once I start a book, although I wish I had given up on this one. Must have lost my appreciation of British humor.
