https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1145529.Om_the_Secret_of_Ahbor_Valley
Spectacular story! This author ran away from home age 16, signed onto the Merchant Marine, sailed to India, spent years there, grew to love the country and its' people, which is evident in the book.Truly a glimpse into the mystery and intrigue of India back in olden times that will leave you panting for more!
A rousing tale set in 1920s India, with many philosophical overtones. Very memorable characters.
Kipling and John Buchan crossed with Charles Williams by way of Rabindranath Tagore and H.Rider HaggardI learned about this pre-war writer of thrillers from the diaries of Mircea Eliade, who discovered his books when the chatelaine of Ascona and the founder of Eranos, Olga Froebel, recommended them to him after she saw he was interested in detective novels.
There are references to Gandhi, to Quit India, etc., and the British characters understand very clearly that their day is almost at its end, and the best of them know that they did far less good for India than the general run of them think.
Most of the book is concerned with Cottswold Ommony’s search for the Ahbor Valley and his experiences along the way—as well as the characters he meets on this quest.
What is interesting about Mundy now, is not the stories themselves—though fun they are run-of-the-mill early 20th Century adventure fiction—but the window the stories and books offer on Late British Imperialism, especially as this manifested itself in India.
Having said this, Om is a wonderful adventure story with mystical overtones and interesting historical observations.
Highly Recommended for those readers who enjoy Adventure fiction and those interested in Late Imperial Adventure fiction.
Fabulous story, so rich in detail, you feel as if you are in India one hundred years ago! The authors' intimate knowledge and love of the country and its people is obvious and inspiring. The book is usually found under the pen name of Talbot Mundy. Talbot Mundy wrote many other books on India that are also grippingly good!
read this many years ago and just recently re-read it, it's still an extraordinary book, a good adventure.
I found this book in a used book store. It was old and tattered but something about it called to me. I took it home and an hour after it got there I was lost in Mundy's world. Isn't this called a Ripping Yarn? I'm sure it is and it's a rip snorter. Laced with spiritual touches, great lashings of mystery and high adventure, I had to find more. It's not easy getting your hands on a Talbot Mundy but once you do you are in for an out-of-this-world treat.
I couldn't get into this at all. Skim read it, words flowed past me and I just had to put the book down. I think that it was the very odd style of writing that did it. As for the story...A shame...
A very wise book and a wonderful adventure story. A book to get lost in and to return to often. A mystical Indiana Jones like story set in India under British rule. One of my all time favorite books.
Beautifully written.
An entertaining adventure that begins with a series of unfortunate events.
Just enough good old fashioned mystery to keep up the suspense and keep you turning the pages.
Other than the scenery fabricated by my imagination, the only actual picture I have of this magical adventure is the colorful camel caravan on the cover.Regarding the mysticism: I was happy that the spiritual bits weren't too high and mighty, though the Lama generally tends to speak in riddles.
I can imagine audiences in the West just eating this up when it was released in 1924, "Oooooh, so exotic!
The original copyright of this book is from 1924. Maybe there is a good story in this book, but I found the style of writing not to my taste. When asked a simple question another character might launch into several paragraphs of response, much of which had nothing to do with the original question.I gave it benefit of the doubt and rated two stars instead of one because I did not finish the book, it could have a good story hidden in there that I do not know about.
Indiana Jones? Maybe...a little bit, though not nearly as much as the book cover would have you believe. A touch of Kipling, due to setting mostly. I think H. Rider Haggard would be the closest read-alike. A good read, especially if you enjoy older genre fiction.
easy reading, fascinating. wish it were a movie.
I'm not likely going to finish this book.
