https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1087075.Shoe_Addicts_Anonymous
I liked this book a lot.
While I'm not part of the exquisitely elite, I could appreciate a lot of the name brands, political parties, money manners, and behaviorisms of the supporting characters in this book.
I DO wish that the author would have gone more into areas where the women could have gotten shoes, mentioning the blossoming U Street Corridor or trendy Arlington, but instead she stuck to the trademark areas of Bethesda, Georgetown, Adams Morgan, and Dupont Circle.
#1, I want to know what a WAITRESS is doing with an apartment in Bethesda, $30k in shoe debt, and a car with a car note.
This book was pretty funny and I laughed out loud a few times. (*^_^*)The thing I liked most about this story is that every woman was from a different class, facing different struggles yet their common interest (as funny as it was) brought them together without judgement to build an extremely strong friendship.I really appreciated the way Harbison pulled all these personalities together. It's hard not to relate to at least one character or a few things about every character.This book made me laugh, think, get angry and now I want to go shoe shopping...lol!
A fun book about shoes bringing a diverse group of women together. The unlikely group forms a very strong bond. It's interesting to watch the development of the relationships and the addiction to shoes!
I needed something fun to read and this book fit the bill. A group of women who are addicted to shoe shopping. They end up becoming friends while trading shoes but also each of these women have an issue that need to be fixed. This was a fun book to read. Helene is a bit nuts with shoes and definitely an addict but she was also my favorite character. I love shoes like anyone else but wow this was an overload and OMG the debt!
The book is equally about four female characters, and the beginning chapters are devoted to learning about them and their problems.
Lorna's desire to find a way to obtain shoes even in her difficult financial situation leads her to write an online ad inviting other shoe addicts who wear a size 7 1/2 to meet and trade designer shoes.
Since the Tuesday meeting is a time for shoe addicts to trade shoes, Jocelyn pretends to love shoes and shops secondhand stores so that she can swap designer shoes with the others.
Finished it this morning. Really enjoyed it. Just a fun read. yes it was bit how do you say that, where those things do not happen in real life, but I had fun non the less.Might want to get my hands on the other book by this author.
This book is hilarious!
They're slightly down on their luck, they're working crappy jobs, they're putting up with cheating and slimy men, and they're shy and overweight.
They each have a trait or characteristic that makes this book personable and humorous.
A coworker recommended this book, so I was all over it.
After finishing it, it didn't seem like a book she would have read and enjoyed, but she really did.
We both did, so this book can really reach and touch many an audience.
It's a feel-good, funny book, and the narrator does a fabulous job!
I really enjoyed this book and loved how the girls found friends with strangers. It reminds me of my book club we started as strangers but have become really great friends from a mutual interest. This book was great, it was light and entertaining. A perfect summer pool read.
I felt that there were a few threads left undone and a few plot lines that were under developed. I was anxious for the end of the book so I could move on to the next book on my night stand.
I've never heard of Beth Harbison ...but I was suck into this world and loved every moment.
hilarious read.
I love all these ladies.
I am picking a fave character, going with Helene.
But all those characters will have ya curious where this read will go??!
i love shoes, not that i am an addict ...but they sure are gorgeous.
i can appreciate their beauty and style!
I will be checking out more from Beth very very soon.
Must read.
If you are looking for a read that is not heavy, will make ya laugh.
This was okay. An easy chick-lit read. Not a lot of substance.
Irrespective of HOW MUCH one likes shoes, there is a point where a normal person can draw the line (work as a phone-sex operator to buy a pair - make that TWO - one in black and one in a deep pink of Ralph Laurens, realy????).
Yeah, women will bond, whether they are in a group of 3 or 4, and although I agree with you, Beth, the more the merrier, they do not say "Three(four) is a crowd", without good reason.The battling agoraphobic Sandra, the shoe-crazy phone-sex operator (who does what she does ONLY to support her shoe addiction, and we are supposed to feel soryy for her!!
I had a really hard time starting this book and it seemed to be a struggle for me to keep reading.
I liked that the girls became such close friends and started looking out for each other.
It was kinda funny but if they were all becoming such close friends and cared about her feelings I would think that it would have been brought up.
I would never tell anyone not to read this book because I am sure what bugs me doesn't bug my friends.
I have a feeling most of the girls in the club will like it but it just wasn't for me.
It had all of the great components of a "beach" book, and it discussed the characters' love of shoes.
How can you not like that?The characters were all well developed, and a one of them (Helene) was so interesting that I would love to read a book just featuring her.
The basic plot is about women who meet because of their love of shoes but end up becoming unlikely friends.
It was a fun, easy read that I would recommend.
At first the title threw me off a little because I'm not a shoe addict myself (although purses are another story, lol) But once I started reading this book I realized it's more about the bonds that women can form and how important friendship can be than it is about shoes.Shoe Addicts Anonymous throws four unlikely strangers together from a personal ad on 'Gregslist' posted by a woman who is drowining in debt.
Many women will be able to relate to the shoe obsessed women in this novel.
Sometimes I thought they were over exaggerated on the amount of money spent on shoes.
I loved that there was a suspenseful little twist in the story.
The ending was perfect and I actually want to read the 2nd book now.
To be honest I am surprised I enjoyed the book as much as I did because I am not a shoe lover.
So, this goes to shoe that you don't have to be shoe addicted to love this story.
My Thoughts: Cute story about shoe addiction that brings four women together once a week to trade designer shoes. These women are from completely different walks of life, but along the way, they become friends as they deal with their shoe addictions, personal problems and living their lives. The author does a wonderful job of introducing each character, spending enough time with each one to give the reader an opportunity to bond and empathize with them. Fans of chick-lit and romance novels will enjoy the quirky humor each character brings to the story.
I really liked this book because I can relate to a lot of it. I couldn't put the book down because I liked it so much. The only reason I am giving it 4stars is because the book had so many errors!!! I've never come across a book like that! There were grammatical errors as well as spelling errors.... I mean don't these books have to go through editors? Overall though I enjoyed the book!
I probably would've liked it more if I was into shoes. The only character that drove me crazy was Lorna. I'll never understand how someone could cry up and down that they're in so broke, but yet they won't use the money they make to get out of debt. They just buy crap they don't need. It's just hard for me to feel sorry for someone like that.
Cute and funny story. I enjoyed reading through the 4 different ladies lives who were brought together by the forming of a club. Otherwise they probably would have never met and been able to impact one another's lives.
While this book had some interesting parts, it was surprisingly less about shoes and more about phone sex! LOL
A really fun and quick read. Not just for shoe lovers.
I was needing something lighter and more than my last few reads and this fit the bill perfectly. I'm so happy I have the follow up book on my shelf as I'll be starting that right now.
Cute, funny and a light read. :)
Was a good light read, My favourite character was Helene. Although Sandra was very interesting too. I chose to read this book because of the title and the fact that I love shoes!
My all-time favorite book. Hilarious, heartwarming, and makes me want to buy more shoes!
It meets all the criteria for good chick lit: HILLARIOUS scenarios, dialogue, characters, etc; plot driven with middle aged women overcoming some kind of life crisis along with a whole cast of like minded women supporting main character; some type of "mean girl" anti-hero who pits herself against our main character, but always ends up on the losing side, a transformation (physically and/or internally ) with at least the main character, a "come-to Jesus" climax involving romance or the acceptance of the lack there of, lots of pop culture references usually in terms of designer anything , celebrities , music, etc and of course cutesy covers with curly-q writing and pictures of shoes, purses, etc all packaged in shades of pink.This one was not lacking any of above and although cliche - I still found it fun because as a middle aged woman in the 21at century I find myself relating to these characters in a fun way as well as the issues - and the mean girls - they deal with.
After a less-than-exciting mystery, I decided to go back to one of my favorite genres - good old fashioned chick lit - for an easy breezy read.
This one did not disappoint (so forgive the kind-of-ridiculous title).I have read several Beth Harbison books and this ranks toward the top-- right around "Always Something There to Remind Me' and "When In Doubt, Add Butter." The story revolves four women brought together by their love/obsession with shoes.
They don't go too heavily into each girls backstory--- its more about them becoming friends and the story that progresses from there - but Harbison gives enough detail so you feel like you know the characters.
Me sorprendió más de lo que esperé. No tiene material para ser un clásico, pero la frescura representada en los diálogos y en las protagonistas le otorgan al libro una buena fluidez y un desarrollo para nada tedioso de la historia. Para pasar el rato y sonreír, relajarse un poco, este libro puede servir. Y de qué va, pues de un club hecho por cuatro mujeres, tres de las cuales son lo que el título dice.
This was a fun light-hearted story of unlikely friends bonding over a common interest-SHOES!!! It really reminded me of Confessions of a Shopaholic and similar books, it is also is set up like "chick-lit" books with a newly formed circle of women. I really enjoyed this light little read and would recommend it to anyone who needs a little pick me up. It does have a little dash of thriller mystery to it as well!
