https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30358505-the-refugees
I read a lot of books in 2017 about the refugee and/or immigrant experience - What It Means When a Man Falls from the Sky, Exit West, Pachinko, The Leavers - and none of them felt as dry as this book.
To say this is supposed to be one of the best books of last year, I was disappointed.Nguyen tries to do with this what Arimah did with What It Means When a Man Falls from the Sky, except with Vietnamese immigrants instead of Nigerian.
In trying to express how I felt about Viet Thanh Nguyen's exquisite new story collection,  The Refugees , I decided to turn to one of the foremost philosophers of our age, Keanu Reeves.   The issue of immigration is definitely a hot button here in the United States right now, with intense emotional fervor expressed by individuals on both sides. Luckily, Nguyen doesn't stake out a political position in his collection. Instead, these beautifully written stories look at issues that affect nearly ev
While I enjoyed all of them, some of my favorites included: "Black-Eyed Women," which told of a woman suddenly haunted by the ghost of her older brother, who saved her during the family's emigration from Vietnam; "The Other Man," about the cultural and emotional adjustment a young immigrant must make when he is sent to San Francisco, to live with a gay couple; "Fatherland," in which a young woman living in Vietnam finally meets her older half-sister, who appears to have everything anyone could ever want; "War Years," which tells of a family whose placid existence is turned upside down by a woman demanding money to fight the Communists back home in Vietnam; and probably my favorite story, "I'd Love You to Want Me," about a woman who begins calling her relationship with her husband into question when he is suffering from Alzheimer's disease.Nguyen doesn't paint all of his characters with an idealistic brush; his characters are flawed, complex, even unsympathetic at times.
After a spate of so so books, The Refugees reminded me of what makes me love a work of fiction: excellent writing, creative story telling, and complex human emotions.
The Refugees is a slim book of short stories, but it really hit the mark.
Many stories focus on complex parent-child dynamics or dynamics within couples.
Despite these common themes, the stories are unique -- creating a rich range of different characters, situations and emotions.
The stories are not uniformly bleak -- as was the case in a couple of collections I read recently -- but nuanced in their emotional range.
Done well, I find them incredible and that was one of the first things I noticed when I started reading this collection, the writing is fantastic.
He tells the story of a woman coming to the store to collect money to send to those fighting the Communists in Viet Nam, how his mother reacts and how and why her viewpoint changes as the story progresses.The second is I want you to want me, about a family with young children who escaped from Vietnam and have had a fairly successful life.
It’s amazing that Nguyen could create such complex characters, people whom I cared about deeply, within the confines of a short story.
Then in a super large and bold font, all caps, hand-written, the last lines read:I’D LOVE YOU TO WANT MEI’D LOVE YOU TO WANT MEI couldn’t for the life of me figure out why Nguyen would end the story that way.
I went to write down comments about the story, noting, of course, how the ending was disappointing and made no sense.
If you love short stories, this poster-child collection won’t disappoint.
The author immediately with captivating writing invites you to meet not just the characters in the present, but we learn about their pasts as well .
We meet the ghosts, their families, the culture, the country of of their birth - Vietnam , and inevitably the undercurrent of the war's impact on their lives .
I enjoyed all of them but my favorites were "Black-eyed Women", about a ghostwriter remembering her traumatic past as she meets the ghost of her brother, who died trying to protect her as the family was making an escape from Vietnam on a small boat and " I'd Love You to Want Me", a touchingly beautiful and sad story about loss of memory and the rediscovery of love.
Viet Thanh Nguyen's 8-story collection in The Refugees focuses on Vietnamese refugees in complex, interesting and sometimes surprising ways.
As characters move between families, cultures and identities, the pull of what's left behind or forgotten shapes them as much as experiences in their new culture.
Discarded memories, whether voluntarily discarded or not, thus become ghosts which prevent any comfortable staking out of identity, either individually, in families or in a couple who have grown old together.
Our narrator is a ghost-writer for memoirs (so memory is the cornerstone of this story as well).
While I had my favorites, the story collection works together and is recommended!
Nguyen quotes from two sources in his Preface, Roberto Bolano’s introduction to Antwerp "I wrote this book for the ghosts, who, because they're outside of time, are the only ones with time." And a small piece of James Fenton’s poem A German Requiem ”It is not your memories which haunt you.
What you must go on forgetting all your life.These two quotes really do set the tone and atmosphere for these eight stories.
The shared experience of these Vietnamese refugees who left their homeland to move to an environment promising a new beginning with a new life.
Viet Thanh Nguyen, 2016 Pulitzer Prize winner of "The Sympathizer", has written a collection of short stories -- 8 total in "The Refugees".
A young Vietnamese man named Liem, 18 years old, comes to San Francisco for the first time to live.
I know just where it was located too ---( an area which has a history and story to San Jose itself)--The year is 1983....the family owns a Vietnamese grocery store.
Mother was not about to give a dime of her hard earned money....she was struggling to make ends meet --- This story takes several twists and turns --- and your emotions will rise and fall - shift - and shift again.
My first foray into the short story land and it was quite captivating right from the start when the writer meets his ghost brother.
This is a story of refugees.
Their ghosts who have been kept alive until their stories have been told.
Their struggles coming to America and the challenges they faced; as well as their return trips back to the homeland where memories and reality are no longer congruent.
The series of vignettes are profound.
Missed the 5er because I need to connect with characters and these short stories still left me with a longing of wanting more.
I really enjoyed this book of short stories about Vietnamese refugees and their lives here in America, and some parts taking place in Vietnam.This was both dark, and sometimes funny, and all of them about love and family.My favorite was "I'd love you to want me", but they were all very good. Thank you to NetGalley, Grove Atlantic, and Viet Thanh Nguyen for the ARC.
This is such an exciting time in American literature that we can enjoy the gorgeous language and careful craftsmanship of really very fine short stories and novels in English in the American tradition but from traditionally silent participants in our nation’s pageant: immigrants and people of color.
She follows Mrs. Hao home one day to confront her and discovers a fight that is all too real.The story is so richly told, its depths just keep churning up new insights.
Complex.One story, “The Americans,” depicts a twenty-six year-old woman who has been teaching English in Vietnam for two years already, living in a town that also hosts a nonprofit engaged in demining.
Viet Thanh Nguyen's short story collection The Refugees is very strong, smart, and affecting, centered on the Vietnamese experience but shifting between characters and perspectives to interact with the nation's history, people, and culture in fresh and surprising ways: a Vietnamese man reeling from his divorce and attempting to close a gap with his distant, disapproving father; a former American military man visiting his daughter in the country he fought in; a girl in her family living in modern Ho Chi Minh City, she and her siblings named after her fathers first family that fled as refugees.
The Refugees Viet Thanh Nguyen - The Author★★★★ 4 StarsI received a free advance e-copy of this book from the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review, thank you!***********************************************"You have to understand, no one puts their children in a boat unless the water is safer than the land."From the poem "Home" by Somali-British poet Warsan ShireReading this highly gratifying collection of stories felt incredibly auspicious, although not necessarily in a good
Viet Thanh Nguyen - The Author★★★★ 4 StarsI received a free advance e-copy of this book from the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review, thank you!***********************************************"You have to understand, no one puts their children in a boat unless the water is safer than the land."From the poem "Home" by Somali-British poet Warsan ShireReading this highly gratifying collection of stories felt incredibly auspicious, although not necessarily in a good way.
At a moment when the level of people seeking asylum worldwide is at an all time high, author Viet Thanh Nguyen sheds light into what moves people to abandon everything they know, put their lives at risk by braving treacherous journeys and face the stigma of becoming stateless immigrants.
Confession: my knowledge of the Vietnam war is somewhat muddy and confused, most of it sourced from American movies, and a few Australian ones, and we all know how one sided they are.The Refugees is a collection of eight short stories made cohesive by the fact the protagonists in all of them are Vietnamese refugees and their immediate families.
A must read!I've received this book via Netgalley, in exchange for an honest review.
Many thanks to the publishers, Grove Atlantic, for the opportunity to read and review this terrific short stories collection.
I fell in love with Viet Thanh Nguyen way of storytelling with his 2016 Pulitzer winning debut novel, The Sympathizer. You bet I wanted more, and that led to Refugees, a collection of eight Viet Thanh Nguyen's short stories which he originally published between 2006 and 2011, with Vietnam's displaced citizens taking center stage in most of the stories.  ❝ She wondered what, if anything, she knew about love. Not much, perhaps, but enough to know that what she would do for him now she would do aga
I fell in love with Viet Thanh Nguyen way of storytelling with his 2016 Pulitzer winning debut novel, The Sympathizer.
You bet I wanted more, and that led to Refugees, a collection of eight Viet Thanh Nguyen's short stories which he originally published between 2006 and 2011, with Vietnam's displaced citizens taking center stage in most of the stories.
“A short story, she thought, would be just long enough.”After seeing the author's name almost daily on my copy of The Best We Could Do by Thi Bui - which he blurbed - I finally decided to give his writing a go with this collection of short stories.From a young Vietnamese refugee who suffers profound culture shock when he comes to live with two gay men in San Francisco, to a woman whose husband is suffering from dementia and starts to confuse her for a former lover, to a girl living in Ho Chi Minh City whose older half-sister comes back from America having seemingly accomplished everything she never will, the stories are a captivating testament to the dreams and hardships of immigration.I went into this not knowing what to expect, but the first tale hooked me from the start.
Among the memorable characters you’ll meet are:• a woman who extorts money from the Vietnamese-American community in San José to fight communism in Vietnam (“War Years”)• a rather directionless ghostwriter who meets the literal ghost of the brother who died trying to protect her from pirates when they were escaping Vietnam (“Black-Eyed Woman”)• an eighteen-year-old refugee who confronts some secrets about himself as he adapts to being sponsored by two gay men, one older and British, the other younger and Asian, in 1970s San Francisco (“The Other Man”)• a fast-talking Vietnamese immigrant who sells counterfeit luxury items and stores them in the garage of a man who owes him, or thinks he owes him, a big favour (“The Transplant”)• a woman who’s furious that her husband, suffering from Alzheimer’s, thinks she’s another woman (“I’d Love You To Want Me”)• two half-sisters who have the same name and the same father but who were raised in different countries meet each other and compare their lives (“Fatherland”) With the exception of the appearance of the ghost in the opening story, these are mostly naturalistic, realistic tales.
Impressive collection of short stories focused on Vietnamese refugees and their experiences. Very well written and all of the stories are very different from each other, which made it even more interesting. I appreciated this collection and enjoyed reading the stories but it didn't really give me any warm fuzzies or hug at my heartstrings - not that kind of a book, at least for me.Thanks for NetGalley and Grove Press for an ARC of this collection.
With the public debate about immigration in the forefront of everyone’s mind, with the executive and judicial branches of government battling out the legality of banning people from certain countries, the timing is perfect!
This is exquisitely written, profoundly moving compilation of short stories, each one touching on the theme of immigration from Vietnam.Viet Thanh Nguyen says he is writing these stories for the ghosts.
She is a ghost of the past and can write her own story.The writing is incredible.
The answers to his questions, and her pain, lie in their long-ago flight from Vietnam.All the stories deal in some way with the characters complicated relationship to the beautiful, tragic country they have left behind (or, in the last story, they have been left behind to cope as best they can with the aftermath of the war in Vietnam.
Even characters who have lived in the United States are haunted by their parents relationship with their country of origin.In the last story, we are in Vietnam, seeing the world through the eyes of a young woman whose father fought (as all these characters did-hence why they are refugees) against the Communists.
I am not a fan of short stories.
About the time I get invested in the characters the story ends.
And it's so hard for much to happen in such a short number of pages.
My problem with many of the stories is that they end abruptly.
You turn a page thinking anxious to know what now and there is nothing.
If you are a fan of short stories, I think you'll like these.
But if you're not a fan of the short format, I don't think these stories will change your mind.My thanks to netgalley and Grove Press for an advance copy of this book.
The characters in Nguyen’s semi-autobiographical short story collection are torn between Vietnam and America.
Escape from Vietnam, sometimes by boat, is a distant memory for some of the characters.
Several stories have characters visiting present-day Vietnam as tourists, or returning for the first time in decades.
The first and last tales in the collection are my favorites.
The opener is an eerie ghost story, while the last is a powerful example of destroying the doppelganger along with one’s unrealistic hopes for the future.
However, two of the stories are less memorable than the others, and there are also a couple of sudden endings that I struggled to decipher.
I was very fortunate to win a copy of Viet Thanh Nguyen's debut, Pulitzer-prize winning novel The Sympathizer last year and was quite impressed and so looked forward to reading his second book, a collection of eight short stories, with great anticipation.
The daughter, being part black-part Japanese, tells her father, "I think I've found someplace where I can do some good and make up for some of the things you've done.""Someone Else Besides You" Thomas, a thirty-three-year-old divorced man, working two jobs, takes in his elderly father.
I'm clearly the odd one out here, so take this review with a huge grain of salt (and be sure to read other reviews if you're considering this book).
I never read The Sympathizer, so I'm not sure if I just don't click with this author's style, or if I just didn't click with this book.
Instead of being moved (or even) caring about the characters in the stories contained in this collection I found my brain wandering and surprised at how long it was taking me to read such a short book.
I would have liked a little more distance between reading both The Sympathizer and Nothing Ever Dies: Vietnam and the Memory of War in the fall before digging into these stories, but with a review copy, I don't always have a choice with expiration dates looming.There are some shared themes with his other two works - refugees who are never fully residents of another place, because of their memories, their losses, and their journeys of displacement.
What impressed me was the exploration of other themes of loss and leaving - memory loss, aging, death, failed expectations.
The stories concentrate on families, those torn apart by the war and those struggling to live between the past and the present.
The writing is simple but powerful and sometimes poignant as in one story where a woman caring for her husband with dementia has to accept that he calls her by another woman’s name.
For me “The Ghostwriter” was the most powerful story, where a woman who ghostwrites novels for people who have survived traumatic events meets and talks to the ghost of her own brother who died on the boat from Vietnam.
Now available! I highly recommend this bookSuch timely stories that are so very well written about Vietnamese refugees and their lives. A great reminder that this country was made of immigrants, refugees being the most vulnerable and impactful. It's so important for the country's future to have open borders for folks like these described in this work. Politics aside, the writing is impeccable and the stories are very engaging. I highly recommend this book!
dở và nhạt nhẽo bất ngờ =)) 2,5*
Every story was different but they all focused on family and relationships and they all revolved around people with roots in Vietnam/ties to Vietnam.
I think this book is very relevant right now.
So many people are against immigrants and refugees coming into their country.
This book highlights how we are all the same.
We all go through similar things that these characters go through like grief, deception, infidelity, sexuality concerns, relationship problems, resentment towards family members, etc.
I would recommend this book & I would read more by Viet Thanh Nguyen.
