https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15820780-the-adventure-of-the-western-star
A movie star is worried about threats she is receiving about her very expensive diamond. She goes to Hercule Poirot for advice. I got a chuckle when at one point the lights go out and *presto!* the diamond is stolen. A few quick deductions and the mystery is solved. The story feels a bit rushed. I knew exactly what was coming and "whodunnit" well in advance.
Rating: 3* of five The Publisher Says: A classic Agatha Christie short story, available individually for the first time as an ebook.Movie star Mary Marvell consults with Hercule Poirot after receiving threatening letters that warn her to return her diamond, the famous ‘Western Star’, to its rightful owner.
But who does own the diamond, and is it even the genuine article?My Review: Again, a 99¢ Kindle Single as well as an episode of Agatha Christie's Poirot's second season.Good lord, society was racist in those days.
Bicker some more, Poirot says something cutting, Hastings acts hurt, smile and make up!
Audiobook. This was part of Poirot InvestigatesI'm almost positive this was a Poirot Presents on PBS because I knew the story as soon as it started. Great story. 4 stars.
I've lately learned that I can read and enjoy Christie's short stories instead of struggling-- and failing-- with her novels.
After having read all her Miss Marple short stories, I'm now embarking on the Poirot stories.
I really enjoyed the storyline of this one; there must be something about fabulous jewels that inspire writers to new heights with inventive plots.
The only thing to dull the sparkle of this story for me was the racist comments sprinkled throughout.
Christie was indeed a writer of her times, and readers back then thought nothing of it.
Do as I did and enjoy the concise plotting and characterization.
A typical Agatha Christie filled with twists and drama. I liked the plot, but there were was something about it that didn’t quite work for me. I listened to this as an audiobook, and had to listen to it twice to understand the ending as my concentration had strayed away towards the end. I loved the Hastings and Poirot’s relationship, poor Hastings is always so excited to solve things but somehow misses the mark. XDOverall an okay read, a must for people who enjoy short crime mysteries.
This was a short but sweet Agatha Christie mystery starring her witty round detective, Hercule Poirot. The story of this stolen jewel was familiar and listening to the story brought back wonderful memories of watching Agatha Christie with my mom. I enjoyed the narration and look forward to listening to the next mystery.
I used to love reading Agatha Christie novels, but these short stories are not doing it for me.
nice story. but it could have been a very long and romantic one too.
Interesting, but not that interesting. She's not that good at writing short stories so it doesn't totally surprise me.
However, before they can stop them, both diamonds are stolen, and Poirot and Hastings are left wondering who stole them.The Adventure of the Western Star is the very first Agatha Christie short story and was published in 1923.
A mystery surrounding two diamonds!!At the time of publication, Agatha Christie had already published two full-length novels with Hercule Poirot and Captain Hastings (The Mysterious Affair at Styles and Murder on the Links) and it is clear from this short story that she was really getting into her stride with these two characters.
Poirot and Hastings are in England.
A movie star comes to Poirot because of letters threatening a robbery.
Her counterpart, connected to an ex-boyfriend of the movie star, also comes, but speaks with Hastings.
Poirot solves this mystery of "double star-crossing".
(view spoiler)[ The diamond of the East and the Western Star were the same diamond - a paste fake was used to fool others.
The movie star's husband had been with the other woman, and had stolen the gem, giving it to the movie star.
When the diamond was needed to help the woman's husband, the movie star was threatened.
Twists, turns, espionage and intrigue abound in this short story about a missing diamond. It was a very fun read (or listen) that will keep you guessing until the end. I discovered the audiobook read by Hugh Frasier in July 2013. It is positively excellent. Couldn't recommend it more.
This was a VERY short story, it took maybe 20 minutes to read, and yet I was still confused at the end.
cw: racial slurs
Another great short story by Agatha Christie.
