https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5351.The_Street_Lawyer
Potpuno sam subjektivna kada je u pitanju Grišam... Najpre sam godina bila njegov prevodilac, a potom i urednik... I apsolutno je nenadmašan i maher kada su u pitanju "legal" trileri... :) Ovu knjigu sam prevela pre 15 godina i nedavno je doživela novo izdanje kod drugog izdavača...
Prosperous people should feel guilty because there are homeless people in our cities. That is the main message in this Grisham novel. In the book are perfectly normal people who become homeless because they are down on their luck. Strangely, no mention is made of the primary sources of homelessness: drugs and mental illness. No, according to The Street Lawyer, the problem of homlessness is caused by the selfish prosperity of our country.Besides the misled preachiness of the story, it's also rather boring.
An entertaining thriller from John Grisham, this is also an excellent introduction to the plight of the homeless on the streets of D.C.
I am re-reading some old John Grisham books that I enjoyed the first time round to see if my perspectives have changed in 10-15 years...The Street Lawyer was a favourite in the past.
But in a dramatic turn of events, Michael finds himself held hostage by a homeless person that his firm had been involved in evicting from a "squatters site." Life intact, Michael sees the emptiness of all of the things he has been seeking and sets about making some changes.....I think I will never be able to give a Grisham book less than three stars as I always enjoy them for the story alone.
Much more than the average legal thriller, The Street Lawyer sheds light on not only the stigma of mental illness, but also on the corruption of law and justice.
People here claiming a white upper class lawyer (from Yale remember) in the 1990s is racist because he (Michael Brock, the character remember, not the author John Grisham) noted how basketball was popular and Washington D.C. jails and juries would be majority black, need to have their SJW cards revoked and get off their high horse and soapboxes.
It continues to amaze me the incompetence of readers and lacking insight and nuance.
If you can't handle facts even today in your snowflakey world then best not to read anything pre-2020 that isn't written but a certified Marxist lefty gender fluid furry.
This is one of my favorite books of all time. Not only does one of the most admirable characters I've ever come across, it has a meaningful moral lesson thrown in for good measure.
Even for those who aren’t John Grisham fans, this book is a must read.
Grisham uses a narrative style that lets the reader into the main characters thinking and it help the reader discover the characters own traits and how he is affected by the events around him.
Grisham used descriptive language beautifully in this book and I felt the words were jumping off the page for me to see them played out right in front of me.
Grisham, like always, captivated me with his exciting plots and deep description, making this one of the best books I have ever read.
Boring.
Heartbreaking.
There were remarks about a jury consisting of "12 black faces" ('cause there can't possibly be any white people in DC, right?) and the incredulous thought "a handsome white boy thrown in the pit!" and "the shoes in question were old Nike cross-trainers.
They were not basketball shoes, and should not have appealed to [him.]" (because ALL black people play basketball, right?) Ugh. Michael Brock may have developed a conscience by accident after the incident at his office, but he failed to develop a personality.
He was a flat and boring character who babbled and whined incessantly.
The Street Lawyer takes place in Washington DC, Michael Brock is working for a big law firm that pays big money.
Until one day a homeless man enters the firm and takes Brock and many other lawyers hostage.
So Brock has a change of heart, he quits the firm and takes to the streets, now working for a lower firm that help homeless people and doesn't pay Michael as much money.While reading this it broke my heart when introduced to the life of homeless people, even though the book was fiction, but that's the kind of stuff you see every day.Another winner by Grisham!
The only reason that I'm giving it three stars and not four is that I didn't appreciate the racism implicit in ideas about homelessness in Washington D.C. Obviously, facts are facts, but there is a way to handle them without being sided one way.However, I really like Michael Brock, the main character from whose perspective the story is told.
This book is a way to show people the truth about the plights of the homeless around the country, starting with the nation's capital.I recommend this book to Grisham fans, to readers who enjoy books about lawyers, and to anyone interested in learning more about the homeless and the people who work for and with them.

With this being a John Grisham novel I had better expectations for it. It was slow in developing and moved kind of slow and methodically for me. The ending came rather quickly, but finished up with a good message and a feel-good ending.
Another JG masterpiece....Sometimes tense, sometimes heartwarming, always a page turner. The setting is Washington D.C. (the district) with focus on an old and very large, prestegious D.C. law firm. One of the staff, young attorney Michael Brock, is onto the firm's misbehavior and does some digging on his own. His actions are not without potentially severe consequences as well. Michael, who will soon be going through his own divorce, seeks counsel from the local 'homeless' lawyer's office.His life is about to change dramatically.As usual, many twists and turns, ups and downs, and another incredible read.
O que leva um advogado bem sucedido a deixar o seu escritório luxuoso e virar advogado oficioso ??Quando um dia de manhã Michael Brock encontra um sem abrigo à porta do prédio onde trabalha está longe de imaginar que esse encontro casual vai modificar a sua vida pessoal e profissional. Desta vez a vertente judicial dos livros de Grisham cede um pouco para as questões humanitárias.
One day at work within his law firm, Drake and Sweeney, they are challenged by a homeless old man who walks into the office armed.
With his marriage breaking up in his personal life and the trouble surrounding him in his professional career, he decides he can no longer work for the law firm.
He meets Mordecai Green, who runs a law firm which helps the homeless, and decides to join him.
I believe this book can be used to make older students discuss attitudes toward the poor and homeless, developing their social awareness skills.
They were not basketball shoes, and should not have appealed to [him.]" (because ALL black people play basketball, right?) Ugh.I can’t say if Grisham had intended his guy to be such a jerk, I doubt it though.
Or fact is he might not be all that kick-butt after all but I can’t judge as yet because this would be the second book of his that I’ve read so far.2.
and lack of character development and Candice once again seemed to have read my thoughts:Michael Brock may have developed a conscience by accident after the incident at his office, but he failed to develop a personality.
My first Grisham novel. I really enjoyed it!
(I tend to avoid household names; just below the mainstream is where I feel most at home.) Nevertheless, I was mightily impressed with this mid-career novel of his (1998) and the social concerns it raises.The story, set in D.C., follows Michael Brock, a Big-firm attorney who finds himself in the right place at the wrong time.
He soon discovers that the departed gunman and dozens of other underprivileged men, women and families were victims of a wrongful eviction by Drake & Sweeney which resulted in a number of untimely deaths.As he comes to terms with the homelessness crisis in the city and the full extent of his firm's involvement, disillusionment sets in and Brock is compelled to course-correct both his career and his life.
He thinks his old firm was partially responsible for the deaths of a homeless family, so he commits a crime on the way out the door that will help him figure it out.
And so the rest of the book is him trying to get his old firm before they get him.It wasn't really a thrill ride.
I think Grisham just wanted to write a book about homeless people.****SPOILER ALERT!****The resolution of the conflict is that they settle out of court.
Instead he likes this other homeless crusader who has about one line in the whole book.
I think that was the point he was trying to get across in this book.
I read a few of Grisham's early books years ago (The Firm, A Time To Kill) and thought they were, for the most part, formulaic legal fiction.
I wouldn't normally have picked up another one of his novels,but years ago I read a short article he wrote for a high school magazine about how he researched The Street Lawyer, and I was intrigued.
Standard fare for a Grisham novel: a young lawyer going up against a corrupt, powerful legal firm where dark deeds have been committed at the expense of the little guy.
This book had potential, and while it is excessively preachy about the sins of rich folk, the message still could've made a good book.
Further, the book spends an excessive amount of time on the characters failing marriage and the issues with his ever charming wife (not that he's an angel either), but ultimately that entire plot line is pointless.
Ultimately, if you're a liberal and want to read a book and go yeah screw rich people, or if you're a self depreciating rich person that wants to feel guilty about not doing enough charity work, than this book is for you.
A Homeless man with a message?
Michael Brock is a man of character; a man who discovers he cannot live with who he thought he was, following a frightening hold up in his office.
Michael's marriage is in trouble.
Claire is puzzled with the change occuring in her husband, unsure if she likes the new Michael any him better than the one she had married.
As a reader, I really wanted things to work out for them; feeling great empathy for this man who'd become energized with fresh passion and vision.
But as any avid reader will tell you, our wishes don't always come true.
Published in 1998, before the current financial collapse, Grisham based this story around the homeless.
People in general look at the homeless as lazy and uneducated not worthy of their time or money.
The government talks a good talk but spends more money fighting the issue rather than helping.I loved Michael Brock - what a great man he turned out to be.
And, as Grisham wrote in his Author's Notes, thank you to all the Mordecai's out there.This is a great book to read if you ever wondered how people became homeless.
The story kept me enthralled.
I loved this book. I was hooked from the start and read the first 1/3 in the first go.This book talks about some of the issues of homelessness and it gives you a lot of food for thought.Highly recommend reading this to everyone
I think I expected a little more from Grisham, but there was nothing wrong with this book. I gives you a scary look at the homeless people that are all around us. Good characters in a very good story.A good read!
وکیل خیابانی ، نویسنده: جان گریشام، مترجم: هادی عادل پور، چاپ 1377 را مشر کوشش به بازار کتاب عرضه کرده اما کتابی که خواندم، تایپ شده سپی پی.دی.اف شده بود، با حق تکثیر و از منبع کتابخانه: نودوهشتیا
3,5*Reread. Seperti biasa, JG mendeskripsikan kehidupan pengacara dan hukum dg detail.
The fact that the happiness is set in the context of vindication for the homeless of Washington, D.C., makes it even more fulfilling to read.
But Grisham writes deeply personal and affecting scenes, such as Brock's interaction with Orlando Burton and holding his baby brother while their mother, Lontae, got some desperately needed rest.
If you're not touched by the tender moments and the tragedy, I probably don't want to know you, especially since this kind of thing can and does happen in the world we live in.
His stories always have so much heart, and I enjoy being so deeply touched.
Good but not as entertaining as his other books.REVIEWER’S OPINION:The author’s intentions were to write about the plight of the homeless and generate sympathy, compassion, and hopefully some action.
Frank Muller is very entertaining as a narrator.
It wasn’t bad, but it was noticeable.STORY BRIEF:Mike was an Ivy League educated lawyer.
The story begins when a homeless man comes to the firm with dynamite strapped to his chest.
Mike borrowed a file from DS which showed the firm helped to evict tenants illegally.
Genre: legal suspense.OTHER BOOKS:I’ve reviewed the following John Grisham books.5 stars.
The Firm5 stars.
The Partner3 stars.
