https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40658082-friend-request
I will try to get my hands on any book that has social media at the heart of it, and "Friend Request" fit the bill perfectly.The book opens in 2016.
"Maria Weston wants to be friends on Facebook"
"Maria Weston wants to be friends on Facebook"
As she thinks of her life the same sentence keeps running through her head "Maria Weston wants to be friends with me"."But Maria Weston has been dead for more than twenty-five years"We know there's something that Louise feels guilty about, something to do with Maria that happened in High School in 1989.
This book was everything I want a psychological thriller to be.
In addition, it was very timely and topical for our culture today.
I often wonder why there aren't more books that deal with social media or cyberbullying.
I've always been interested in reading about social media in fiction.
When it seems like all psychological thrillers start to run together and sound like one in the same, Laura Marshall has an original and authentic voice.
I wouldn't hesitate to read anything that she writes.
It tackles some hot button topics and sheds light onto controversial and sensitive issues.
When Louise receives a Facebook 'friend request' from former school friend Maria, her world stops in its tracks, because Maria died 25 years ago!The story is told in dual timelines and flips between 1989 and 2016.
She's having a tough time after her divorce and now the 'friend request' threatens to unearth a 25 year old secret, that could change her life, along with the friends who also share that secret.As storyline's go, this is really current, and I found that it worked rather well.
Louise Williams doesn't just get a friend request on Facebook from someone she knew years ago and doesn't actually like, she gets a friend request from someone who died twenty-five years ago.
The curiosity gets the better of Louise however and she accepts.
Flashing back twenty-five years prior, Maria Weston is the new girl in school, and she isn't exactly well liked.
Louise tries to befriend Maria and in doing so, gets the cold shoulder from the girls.
Thus, when she gets Maria Weston's friend request she is stunned.
And when she starts getting threatening Facebook messages from Maria, she is absolutely is terrified as she has a lot to lose.
Maria Weston wants to be friends on Facebook.
Maria Weston has been dead for over 25 years.Ooooooh, that sounds creepy and believe me FRIEND REQUEST is a crazy ride from start to finish.
Her friend, Maria Weston, went missing that year and was assumed dead.
Hmmm.When Louise receives the friend request from Maria, you can only imagine how freaked out she becomes.
Louise is a smart person, computer literate and she goes through all the expected steps to find out who sent the request.
I can highly recommend FRIEND REQUEST.
An explosive fast read that will keep you guessing throughout.Louise receives a friend request on Facebook from Maria.
Only problem… this friend died years ago, one fateful night during a high school party.
As Louise preps for her high school reunion, all her deep-buried fears of that night resurface.
Of course, I was trying to find out who could be behind the friend request and messages.
Thank you to NetGalley, Grand Central Publishing and Laura Marshall for an advanced copy to read in exchange for an honest review.For our full Traveling Sister review please visit Brenda and Norma's fabulous Book Blog http://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi...
3.5 A friend request from a person you know is no longer alive.
You know this because you were part of something you are ashamed of now, something that could cause great harm in the present.
You have a son, a life, you don't want to lose what you have.
Mean girls, bullying in highschool, cliques and wanting to be one of the in crowd, subjects covered in many books.
So there's that but despite this being a thriller and it also has something important to say.
A well done, thought out thriller.ARC from Netgalley.
In this case, though, Louise receives a friend request from a girl she went to high school with.
This story deals with the aftermath of a tragic, and presumably, the untimely death of a high school girl, the details of which are sketchy, which is why most of the characters are suspect, in one way or the other, and is the source of all the tension that situation generates.
The other very timely theme explores our use of social media and the many ways we can lurk around other people’s lives, spying on their current relationships, jobs, hobbies and other friends.
Not only that, who among you can honestly say you haven’t lurked around on someone’s social media page at one time or another?
Traveling Sisters Review by Norma and Brenda with Kaceey, Berit, Diane, and NikkiFRIEND REQUEST by LAURA MARSHALL is a creepy, gripping, shocking, suspenseful, and a clever psychological thriller novel that kept us on the edge of our seat throughout this whole book.
We all found the social media aspect of this novel quite clever and it added a scary and spine tingly feeling for us as we read this story.
but the social media aspect definitely was which added a scary unsettling feeling to it.
a friend request from someone she has thought was dead for the last twenty years.
Alternating between 1989 (the last time Louise saw Maria) and 2016, this book slowly fills you in on events from the past as adult Louise reconnects with former friends and digs into exactly what happened so many years ago.
That simple friend request sends Louise into a panic.
Now she's afraid her secrets might come out.
Her career immediately begins to suffer, and she cannot confide in her very best friend.
Her secret has always affected her life, not quite ruined it...
but that time may be coming.
Imagine receiving a friend request on Facebook from somebody you knew in high school who you thought was dead, what would you do?!?!Another fabulous psychological thriller!
I thought this was done very well, the two stories unraveling at the same time, both of them kept me on the edge and kept me trying to figure this all out (and I never did)...If you like a well-done psychological thriller that keeps you turning those pages until the very end, I would definitely recommend this book!
we definitely had some wild theories as to what Was going on, and I don’t believe any of us were right, LOL as usual an enjoyable read with you ladies!💕You can find all the Traveling Sisters reviews at Norma and Brenda ‘s fabulous blog...
Louise receives a heart-stopping email: Maria Weston wants to be friends on Facebook.
To keep her secret, Louise must first uncover the whole truth, before what's known to Maria-or whoever is pretending to be her-is known to all.With her mesmerizing debut, Laura Marshall offers a timely and essential story of how who we were shapes who we become, the hidden cost of our increasingly connected world, and the dangerous shape that revenge can take in our modern era.MY VIEWS: Firstly, this is an amazing debut novel.
Thank you to Grand Central Publishing via Netgalley for providing a digital copy of Friend Request by Laura Marshall for review.
Laura Marshall has written written a marvelous thriller that hits several hot tops from single parenting and online dating to bullying and social media and she doesn't shy away from these vulnerabilities in the least.
In Friend Request, Louise Williams receives a requst from a friend from long ago.
Further, Louise and her clique were complicit in this girl's death while they were in high school.
Marshall examines these secrets with rapid fire prose using a past/ present sequence that works brilliantly.
Once you've started reading the book, you won't want to stop until the final page!
This is a must read for all suspense fans.
4.5 Stars"When you leave something behind you, you think that’s it.
This is it; this is you, for life."Maria Weston wants to be friend with Louise on Facebook.
Now after years, Louise received a notification on Facebook that Maria wants to be friend with her but there is a teeny tiny problem:"But Maria Weston has been dead for more that twenty-five years."This story cought my attention from the first chapter!
So I liked to skip them and read the present but of course I didn’t do that and read all of it!"I wish that I could tell someone the truth without being judged, or worse.
However, when Louise gets a friend request on Facebook from Maria Weston her heart nearly stops as the past comes flooding back into her life and the memories that have haunted her for years are brought back to the surface.
Now the story in here takes a reader back and forth from the present time and the past high school days for Lousie.
Then the flashing back to the high school days shows the reader just what had happened to Maria that night to make Louise live her life full of guilt.
It reminds me why I decided to delete my personal account, the idea of people you barely know getting such a personal glimpse into your inner sanctum and keeping in contact with everyone you ever met from high school days seems an odd thing and the perfect basis for a revenge style vendetta so I did quite enjoy the storyline.
I would thoroughly recommend this to anyone who likes a good mystery thriller and also anyone who has ever had a Facebook account could really relate to some of the themes that run throughout this book.
Laura Marshall's debut novel is alright, but I really didn’t care for the main character, Louise. Maybe I’m just tired of simpering weak women feeling guilty about the past. Something that happened in high school is coming to a head 27 years later when something happens at a class reunion. Too much handwringing and worrying made the first half of the book drag. Fortunately, the book uses a larger font and leading, and it was really not as long a book as its 370 some pages would indicate. In the end, I felt meh.
Maria and Louise were friends once in high school, but they didn't remain friends for long.
Louise can't understand why Maria would reach out to her now...
especially as Maria has been dead for 25 years.This is a brilliant psychological thriller.
The book bounces back and forth between today and those days in high school.
Is it someone who knows what happened all those years ago and wants Louise to be afraid?
Louise knows that if the truth ever sees the light of day, her life, as she knows its, will be over.Somewhere along the line, the reader hears an unknown voice ....
You really see the strength in Louise form as you're taken into the story and by the end of the novel you realize that although her life was littered in bad judgement and mistakes there is a certain strength in not letting the past define your present.(view spoiler)[ AND Oh my god Sam's justification monologue at the end absolutely fucking brilliant!
Really enjoyed this one. Highly recommend to readers that enjoy psychological thrillers.
Most of us have already lived through our high school years when peer pressure is at its zenith.
For the most part, we emerge relatively unscathed and ready to tackle real life.
An oddly timed Friend Request on Facebook coincides with an upcoming 27th high school reunion.
The individual who is asking should neither be in the market for friends nor reunions.(view spoiler)[I fervently hope four year old Henry will not be warped from his mother’s incessant inhalations of him, burying her nose in his neck, reveling in the smell of his hair, his head, breathing in his very essence, etc.
The grown-up Louise is a bit easier to like, although I often just wanted her to go to the police and tell everything, but that had made it too easy and not made it a good story if the character did that.
Also, towards the end, I did understand her hesitance to do so.Friend Request is a very good book, through flashbacks do we get to see what happened in 1989 when Louise and her friends made Maria's life a living hell right until the very last night she disappeared.
For Louise has spent her life placating others – not believing she was good enough for her husband, Sam, trying to fit in with the popular girls at school and doing things she is ashamed of in order to retain the friendship of Sophie Hannigan.Fitting in at school involved Louise being involved in the bullying of new girl, Maria, and her old friend from primary school, Esther.
When Louise feels that she is being followed and fears that her son, Henry, is in danger, it forces her to try to find out what happened all those years ago.
"Friend Request" by Laura Marshall was a lovely, uncomplicated and enjoyable read that I devoured in a couple of days reading.'Maria Weston wants to be friends.
But Maria Weston is dead.
Isn't she?.....'The story is primarily based around the social media platform Facebook and it was nice to read about something that's a part of your everyday life.
I'd happily recommend "Friend Request" as a nice summer read and I certainly look forward to the author's next book with eager anticipation.Thank you to friend and fellow reader Rachel Hall for my copy of the book.4 stars
I absolutely loved this debut novel from Marshall!!
For some reason right now I am just absolutely loving these new British authors and their psychological thrillers!
She puts the tragedy behind her and thinks that everything is long forgotten and left in the past until one day, decades later, she receives a mysterious friend request, putting to question, can you ever escape your past??
The only thing that kept this book away from being a five star for me was the ending.
A little unsatiated with how everything ended, it seemed things were even left a bit unresolved, unfortunately.
The social media premise is timely and of course a source of fascination.
We've all heard stories of the "perils" of the internet and social media.
It was a fast paced read and the end was a twist that I hadn't predicted.
I welcome being wrong or stumped but I also like being able to think/look back and see subtle clues that were there all along.
Friend Request didn't have that - the twist was more of a shock factor that came out of nowhere.
Just not one, I'll remember for a long time to come.
Friend Request is a chilling psychological thriller that kept me on the edge of my seat from beginning to end.  Maria Weston wants to be friends. But Maria Weston's dead. Isn't she? Louise is a single mom to a wonderful little boy, Henry. Louise has spent most of her life trying to forget the horrible mistake she made back in high school. Until tonight... when the past comes back to haunt her. Louise gets a friend request on Facebook from the one and only, Maria Weston. The only problem is Maria
Maria Weston wants to be friends.
But Maria Weston's dead.
Louise has spent most of her life trying to forget the horrible mistake she made back in high school.
Louise gets a friend request on Facebook from the one and only, Maria Weston.
The only problem is Maria has been dead for 25 years.
If so, then who?Friend Request is a fantastic debut novel by Laura Marshall that is full of suspense, social media issues, realistic characters, and an incredible storyline.
The author definitely captures the teenage high school life of cliques, bullies, mean girls, and how social media has a big impact on our lives today.
Thank you to the author, Laura Marshall, and the publisher, Sphere, for this opportunity.When Louise Williams receives a Facebook friend request from long-dead classmate, Maria Weston, all manner of long-buried secrets threaten to come to the surface.
But with a child to protect and her sanity under question, it is up to Louise to protect herself and make sure events of the past aren't unearthed in the present.My favourite sort of thrillers involve a montage of past events that intersperse the present-day perspective.
I was constantly second-guessing every action and, after reading a slew of thrillers, found it refreshing to find the unguessable nature of this plot's many mysteries.
Really rather excellent psychological thriller here from Laura Marshall. Its so relevant actually - the whole social media thing considering we all live out our lives virtually these days - what would you do if you received a friend request from a dead person? Even without the back story that means Louise is already guilt ridden, it would give you pause right?Loved how this played out. I also liked its twisty sense of reality. Great stuff. Full on review nearer to publication - but put this in your diary psychological thriller fans.
Anyone can be anyone on Facebook. It's easy to hide behind a faceless page on the internet.  Friend Request marks Laura Marshall's literary debut. It is a well-conceived and decently written psychological thriller with a very enticing and thought-provoking premise: Louise, the protagonist and the narrator of most of the chapters comprising this book, is a single mom of a little boy, Henry, and a successful interior designer who receives an unexpected Facebook friend request from Maria Weston,
It is a well-conceived and decently written psychological thriller with a very enticing and thought-provoking premise: Louise, the protagonist and the narrator of most of the chapters comprising this book, is a single mom of a little boy, Henry, and a successful interior designer who receives an unexpected Facebook friend request from Maria Weston, a girl who disappeared more than 25 years ago and has been presumed dead ever since.
Friend Request approached other important matters, such as school bullying and how the unpopular teenagers grow to behave uncharacteristically because they crave the popular students' attention.That being said, Friend Request is definitely a page-turner and I highly recommend it to the fans of mysteries/psychological thrillers.
