https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/768496.The_Golden_Gate
Well for the simple reason The Golden Gate is a twentieth century novel with a unique difference in that it has been written in verse, not with couplets but with sonnets in such a way as to be an uplifting experience, be it poignant, humorous, bitter-sweet, nostalgic, tragic…You name it; every conceivable emotion has been magnificently portrayed by Seth.
I must pursue that.This book was indeed a serendipitous find thanks to a GRs friend, Fionnuala, who said:If you like stories told in rhyme, Vikram Seth has a more contemporary one: “The Golden Gate”This work is unusual and I love it.
His name was John..."_____________________________________So I was telling Bram yesterday that, as far as I was concerned, the real translation of Eugene Onegin into English was The Golden Gate.
I love The Golden Gate, and translations of Pushkin have always left me cold, particularly the Nabokov one.This afternoon, I was standing in the line at Cambridge train station, when I noticed that the person behind me was a friend who's a Professor of Russian Literature.
I said I was sure she had an opinion on Nabokov's translation of Pushkin.
But since those verses lackThat bawdiness, fear of attackLeads me to say, since I'm feeling meek:If I lost your admiration...Sorry for the cock fixation.---Endnotes[1] And look, I finished with five days left![2] Did you know his name sounds like "Sate?"(Till just last week that said "book of heft"--I should have rhymed with Golden Gate.)[3] And I wracked my brain o’er "Onegin,"'Til Seth whispered "Pssst!
Although this novel is written in verse, the reader almost forgets that fact after a while because in all other respects, this is just like any other novel with a well paced plot, varied cast of characters, plenty of dialogue and the usual suspense about who is going to hook up with who plus some wry commentary from the author about the challenges of writing in verse.
Here goes:When I was a high school student in Palo Alto, I used to go to Printer's Ink Bookstore Cafe on California Ave to visit my friend Gregory, who had a job slinging coffee there.
At the time I was very much enjoying my membership in a little cult of high school literati who met once a week to read stories out loud to one another while enjoying non-alcoholic beverages and jellied scones.
The very idea that this amazing young poet had sanctified our home, our region, our era and so much of the culture of that time and place with his astonishingly limber verse ...
(I was even dreaming in rhymed sentences last night -- don't ask me what they were, though.) I was drawn in to the lives of the characters, the narrative voice (Vikram himself), the story with its range of emotions; but what I liked the most, I think, was its prevailing tone, which, even with its sometimes serious topics, is just plain fun.*Seth wrote this while working toward a PhD in the economic demography of China while at Stanford.
And according to Wikipedia, he's working on a sequel to ASB called "A Suitable Girl," to be published in 2013.
The characters were fully-fleshed-out and interesting to read about, the places were very real (as a Bay Area resident, it was very exciting to see places like the Cafe Trieste showing up--and reading about traffic on 101 while being stuck in traffic on 101 was a great meta-experience).This is on top of the conceit of the book, an epic poem told in fifteen chapters of approximately 50 sonnets each, all in iambic tetrameter.
It was an EPIC POEM about people doing the mundane in the 1980s.
this wasn't going to work for me… A verse novel of the late twentieth century recording a few years in the life of yuppies in early 80s San Fran, all in soapy sonnets that range the gamete from humorous to tragic?
There is such powerful depiction of loss, extraordinary within the confines of the structure, and it felt to me the kind of loss that calls out to the reader, hence ten minutes of OOC sobbing that did me much good.Don't get me wrong, there were some squelchy moments.
The vacuity of modern life, too, seems a strange subject matter for Petrarchan sonnets but, running alongside powerful and diverse subject matter as it does, it works.
The main problem with Vikram Seth's exquisitely crafted verse novel about the personal lives of yuppies in the Bay Area of the 1980s is, well, the personal lives of yuppies.
Especially the middle section, with its repetitive alternation between John and Liz quarreling over the ill-behaved cat, and Ed and Paul fighting about the problem of Ed's religious scruples in their relationship.
But Seth usually manages to throw in an especially beautiful line or thought-provoking idea just when the hebetude is getting too heavy to bear.
Quite possibly, this book is why I'm married to the person I married.The novel presents a daunting challenge to readers, because it consists of sonnets - 14 lines per, babe. I recall that Seth doesn't adhere closely to iambic pentameter, which is fine - there's a good tradition of poets being flexible with verse. (See Shakespeare, William.)This is a book of love and loss, friendship and loss, and San Francisco.
Seth’s way with the “Onegin stanza” is wonderful but his characters are deathly dull. Some reviews call them “yuppies,” to which I say, If only! Materialistic, pleasure-seeking status jockeys might have made better subjects of Seth’s wit. To me John and Liz and Phil and Ed read as earnest grad students or aging academics. Ban the Bomb/Save the Whales types, whose cats are major personalities in their lives, and whose couplings are inescapably prim and donnish. This is a “campus novel,” really.
To write a contemporary love story, intertwining the lives of 6 people that you and me can completely relate to, and delving deep into their everyday lives, struggles, loves and lamentations...and to be able to do this entirely using sonnets and poetry....simply UNBELIEVABLE! This poem/story/work of fiction is a must read for anyone that thought poerty is hard to read or too hard to understand. The simple language, yet strong prose makes this book a delightful, magical read. You'll fall in love with Janet and Liz and Phil and Ed...not to mention the books protagonist, John!
This book was fabulous - imagine an entire novel written in verse!
when I started, I couldn't imagine that I would finish it.
But Seth does such a fabulous job with the rhyme scheme, with choices of words, and with the story itself that I couldn't put it down.
Then you can really "hear" the poetry in it as well as enjoy the story.Seth said that he was inspired by Eugene Onegin by Pushkin - using the same rhyme scheme, but when I went to read Eugene Onegin, I was very disappointed.
I suspect, though, that the difference is Seth's playfulness with language.
I reread this book every five years or so, and I always do it when nobody is around because, really, I look like an idiot when I cry in public, and the last chapter of this book does it to me every time.This is a novel about San Francisco in the 80s, written completely in verse.
However, it's all written in what I'll call Onegin stanzas, that tetrameter sonnet form Pushkin used in his masterpiece.
Instead, every poet out there wants to do a collected works of whatever he or she happened to write in this decade or the other and hopes the world will care about it.
This is sheer intellectual & gripping....the closet conversations are out...
Today I wish to review my very latest read for youIt’s a novel in verse by the inimitable Vikram Set
Anyone who can write an entire novel in sonnet form in this day and age and still weave a story that taps into the complex core of the heart and love is, simply put, amazing.
I have wanted to read his novel in verse ‘The Golden Gate’ since then.
If I have to give you a clue, it is this – one thing leads to another, there are a few surprises in store as the love lives of Phil and Ed and John and Liz don’t go according to plan, and there is an unexpected ending.This is the first time I have read a novel in verse.
Whether you love poetry or you get intimidated by it, I think you will like ‘The Golden Gate’.
Have you read Vikram Seth’s ‘The Golden Gate’?
Set in 1980's San Francisco rather than Pushkin’s Imperial Russian cities of 1820’s St. Petersburg and Moscow, The Golden Gate is written by Vikram Seth, author of the highly regarded A Suitable Boy. Despite being skeptical going in, I was quickly won over by this rather brilliant novel with its contemporary, fully credible plot and vividly drawn characters.
Seth Vikram obviously loves verse, and especially the sonnet, which his novel lovingly shows, so it is "the golden gait." Hee hee - this is the kind of connection that lovers of language and wordplay appreciate :) And others probably think is nuts or for the birds.
I got this book as a gift and was honestly a bit wary at first because the concept—a novel told entirely in sonnets!—seemed a bit hokey and pretentious to me. But in general it's really quite lovely and clever, even if the plot is a bit thin (with the exception of one incredibly shocking moment toward the end). Plus, Seth captures the feel of the Bay Area really well. You were right, dear gift-giver!
This is an excellent effort - a novel entirely in sonnet format (including the chapter titles). I read this ages back, and was not very impressed. Since then I have become a fan of Seth's poetry, and I think if I read this now, it will go up by one star.
Really enjoyed this unique and amazing book about the life, loves and tragedies of young people in San Francisco, a novel written 30 years ago in Oneguin stanza! Brilliant.

I wish I had the literary facility to write my 2 sentences in verse, let alone a 305 page novel.
The novel in verse is remarkable, it is a story of a group of young "techies" living in San Francisco.
( "Where my Tibetian travel book Was honoured- siezed my arm : "Dear fellow, What's your next work?" "A novel..." "Great!
We hope that you, dear Mr. Seth-" "...in verse," I added.
But, I did not realise this was his first novel, and now I am certain that Vikram Seth is a writer of a generation.
To state the obvious, Seth is a renowned genius.
However, most readers seem to base this judgment on his 1500-page opus, A Suitable Boy, whereas I’m one of those who would say this book, published some seven years earlier, is truer proof.
The number to marvel at here is 690 – and it’s sonnets, not pages.
And this is not a book of poetry; it’s fiction.
(Students: Scan the paragraph as if you’re reading iambic pentameter.) Not only that, it RHYMES.


If I had the skill and timeI'd put this review in rhymeSuperlatives I'd strew galoreGorgeous, fabulous and more.Vikram turns to poetryto render all life's this-and-thatscoastal flowers, demonstrations,budding friendshipslovers' spats.I thought I'd be intimidatedby literary referencesVersified sentencesBut the tale's easy to followNot a character is hollowAnd snobbishness is overrated,So as for author Vikram Seth,I just think that he's the beth!
Note: this is actually one sustained story, not a collection of poems. This is my #1 favorite book for both "literary" and personal reasons. It's beautifully written. The characters became a part of my life. I can't say enough good things about this book.
Loved this book. The sonnet is my favorite classical form of poetry, and Seth's dexterity in weaving them into an entire novel is amazing. Form aside, this is a story that covers a range of emotions--sweet, funny, and sad. And, of course, the cats were a bonus!
