https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17986.Teleny_or_the_Reverse_of_the_Medal
An autobiographical work. Not only are the characters well developed, but the story also offers a poignant cultural testimony to the stigmatization of homosexuality and the resulting mental and emotional suffering. It is also written in a very sophisticated and very refined way. Just a minor detail (or major, as you prefer): the language used was too subversive, that is, rebellious enough. It was a fact of much importance to rate the book as I do.
8/10
Four stars for capturing the essence of love in the Decadent style.Minus MANY MANY stars for the horrendous, and to me inexplicable description of the rape of a housemaid and subsequent self-abnegation.
The narrator attempts to rape the housemaid, and doesn't succeed in penetrating her.
Then another servant attempts to rape her and succeeds.
The narrator casually wonders if he had some part in her suicide, and then moves on.Despite my love of Victorian pornography I can't get past this blatant example of male privilege, and I have a really hard time accepting that my beloved Oscar Wilde probably wrote it.
Yep. I did it.I bought a Victorian gay porn book.
With my own money.
It came in the mail today and the cover has a Warhol-esque quadriptych of colourful butts and Oscar Wilde portraits.
It is garish and fantastic and I regret nothing.I'd read that it was rare and purported to have been written, at least in part, by Wilde, and when I found it on thriftbooks for $4 (it was the last copy in stock) there was no stopping me.So here I've got a porno book from 1893 that I can never in good conscience read in public, with two more butts on the cover than any book should have, and a blurb on the back perplexedly stating that "It is a bizarre book, alternating porn with florid purple passages, a hymn to sodomy with an angry attack on notions of the 'natural.'"Best $4 I've ever spent, easily.(I hear there's a prequel...)
The last books I remember to read with gay characters in them were the Song of Ice and Fire books but there neither Renly nor Loras were properly developed (actually, it was so mitigated that I only realised they were gay when the TV show came out).- This book came as a recommendation because it was apparently gay literature written by (or partially by) Oscar Wilde.
And since I love The Picture of Dorian Gray, I thought "Well, if you have to read gay literature, at least read some written by a writer you know is good".And so off I went to read "Teleny".
I found this book a little embarrassing to read in public, but once I started, I really couldn't stop.
It seemed to me in the beginning like the two characters had been thrown together just for the purpose of the book, and I generally never approve of things like that, but I thought it was pulled off extremely well.
You cared for the relationship, and that is something that is extremely rare in books these days.My one criticism of the book would be the ending.
I recommend reading the prologue again after finishing the last chapter (I accidentally skipped it, and I thought it was quite a suitable ending).
Aquí hay reflexiones sobre el pecado, sobre los santos, sobre el cuerpo de Jesucristo visto desde un perfil demasiado amoroso como para el protestante que fue Wilde.
Por vez primera en mi vida deseaba tener un hermoso rostro…”Esta es la única vez que se menciona un espejo -de esta forma, con una función- en todo el libro.
Es una obra prohibida no sólo por lo que narra, si no por la forma en que lo narra: en una época en que la figura del autor-creador era una sola e indivisible, he aquí una novela-fresco que fue escrita, tal vez, con una libertad infinita.
7/10
Did Oscar Wilde write it? Who cares? You don't read this book because you want to check another title off your "I've read everything Oscar Wilde wrote" list. You read this book because it's a product of the times Oscar was living in. This is Victorian erotica/porn/literature! You'll learn just as much about the period from this book as anything written at that time, and along with the education, you'll get a few smiles and a few sniffles.
Camille de Grieux apaixona-se por René Teleny, um pianista com quem estabelece uma relação quase metafísica quando o ouve pela primeira vez num concerto de beneficência.
Mas, com a paixão vem a inveja e o ciúme, de Briancourt e outros amigos de Teleny, mas também da senhora de Grieux, a mãe de Camille, que não permanecerá impassível à situação em que suspeita o filho...Um romance pornográfico?
Algumas passagens são realistas, vívidas e sensoriais (a cena noturna em que Camille deambula por uma zona de engate homossexual), outras mais românticas e místicas (há quem diga que mais de um autor esteve envolvido na escrita), mas o conjunto é muito bom e o final emocionante.
There is no evidence that Oscar Wilde had any part in the writing of this novel. It appears to be the work of several authors. In parts it's a homosexual love story in others it's low grade Victorian porn. Seems to have been influenced in part by Dorian Gray and The Marquis De Sade. Really it is only significant is as a literary curio.
“Teleny” é um clássico da literatura erótica, publicado pela primeira vez em 1893, e cuja autoria é atribuida a Oscar Wilde. Conta a história de amor entre o jovem Camille De Grieux e um pianista hungaro, René Teleny. É um livro de uma grande beleza e riqueza literária.No entanto, e porque se trata de um romance erótico de natureza homossexual, para poder ser devidamente apreciado é necessário ter “ligeireza” de mente. Gostei muito!
Χωρίς να είναι σίγουρη η πατρότητα του έργου και το ποιος ηταν ο συγγραφέας ......
Un libro diferente a sus demás obras, pero no por ello de menor calidad, te describe la pasión, el amor, el deseo , la naturaleza humana sin tapujos. Se tiene que leer con mente abierta, entiendo que no es para todos.Es un libro completamente erótico pero con historia y no puede faltar, haciendo un retrato y juzgando a sociedad de su época, que un es aplicable."... si bien la sociedad no exige a sus miembros ser intrínsecamente virtuosos, sí les exige, en cambio, guardar las apariencias, y por encima de todo evitar el escándalo..."
No niego que podría haber colaborado en algunas partes de la historia, pero el producto final es tan divisible, cambiante, incompleto e imperfecto, que no pareciera siquiera que él haya podido estructurar una historia así.
Es decir, estaba destinada a ser imperecedera.Teleny, aunque contiene partes que contienen una descripción sugerentemente estética, falla en ciertos puntos:1) Los personajes son poco desarrollados, parecen haber sido descritos a partir de estereotipos de la época.2) El romance se da de forma demasiado espontánea.3) Hay varios comentarios que no agregan nada a la historia y que hacen que uno se pregunte si se está leyendo una novela o un ensayo frustrado.4) El final era predecible.
Varsin hämmentävä lukukokemus. Eroottiset kohtaukset ovat sangen roiseja ja pääosin sen verran inhorealistisia, että minkäänlaista himoa ne eivät herätä. Niiden välissä on sitten loputtoman runollisten ja kryptisten eufemismien kyllästämää tunnelmavelliä. Välillä hypätään jopa puskafarssin puolelle. Eli siis aika tavanomaista pornokirjallisuutta, mutta ajalta, joka muistetaan enemmän ylevistä klassikoista.
Egyre többet hallottam erről a regényről. Így megszereztem és elolvastam. Alig több, mint 200 oldal mégis csak nagy nehezen tudtam végigküzdeni magam rajta. Terjengős, lassú történet. Erotikus regény, mely egyes feltételezések szerint orvosi esettanulmányként születhetett. Mindenesetre klasszikus mű, melynek nyomait ténylegesen az egész 20. századi meleg irodalom magán hordozza. Mégis, nagyon nehéz olvasmánynak bizonyult számomra.
I read Teleny for my Finnish assignment for controversial literature.
Overall, the poetic yet grotesque atmosphere appeared masterful both in the original version and in the translation.The first half of Teleny seemed like it had a potential for a good book.
I also liked they way the story explored different taboos without seeming forced.
You start expecting similar brilliance from everything.
The second half of the story seemed cheap and hurried and reminded me of badly written slash fanfiction.
But there's always a silver lining – for once in my life I get to call something surprisingly a worse love story than Twilight.

Cuando encontré este libro me atreví a leerlo porque no había leído más cosas de Oscar Wilde y le di oportunidad al libro.Comencé la lectura y me topé con muchísimas metáforas (cosa que me encanta) y con una relación homosexual.
Sí, de eso va el libro.
En las sociedades antiguas los enamorados del mismo sexo debían, por sobre todas las cosas, ocultar su amor ante los demás.
Hoy en día estas relaciones son más aceptadas por algunas sociedades.
El libro es muy explícito en las escenas de sexo.
Y creo que eso le da un plus al libro.
The result of a Round Robin writing effort (which may or may not have included Oscar Wilde, but I highly doubt it because Wilde can actually write), Teleny makes for a very uneven read.
It's highly repetitive, but I suppose that is the nature of erotica (though I must commend these characters for their stamina).
Whoever wrote the last section deserves to be slapped for inserting, in such a heavy handed manner, so many literary quotations (including a whole whack from Paradise Lost).
"What a pretentious twat," I muttered under my breath as I read.
And by graphic I don't mean necessarily in the gaudy macabre way that a gorefest movie is graphic, but in the more sophisticated late 19th century way, where sexual or violent acts exist in sharp contrast to heightened language and luxurious prose style ment to mimic the surroundings of the leisure classes during that period.
However, my initial impression of the book was unfavorable, because the author (supposed by many, though unconclusively, to be Oscar Wilde) devotes a lot of attention to describing in almost painful detail this concert Teleny plays at, where he first meets the narrator.
Homosexual tragic love tale. its full of emotions, deep ones. Im sure he was crucified by this book, even though all and all it is just a love story that had everything to go right but tragically, it went wrong. The main character is madly in love with Teleny and they share a beautiful love story.
Homosexual tragic love tale. it´s full of emotions, deep ones. I´m sure he was crucified by this book, even though all and all it is just a love story that had everything to go right but tragically, it went wrong. The main character is madly in love with Teleny and they share a beautiful love story.
One of the only erotic novels I will ever read over and over again. It is as tragic as it is spellbinding. Perfectly placed descriptions and gruesome detail in the best and worst places. One of my top 5 favourite books ever written.
Creo que fue un error haber leído este libro pues ahora tardará mucho en que exista uno que sea tan bueno como para superarlo y dejarme satisfecho como éste lo hizo.
La mejor ficción erótica de la historia (si no es la mejor, al menos está entre las cinco mejores) . Perdí la cuenta de cuántas veces le releí.
Okay, so since goodreads hates me and wouldn't save the two reviews I wrote for this already because I refuse to put it on my read shelf when I wasn't able to finish it & also won't add a dnf shelf just for this one book, I'm just going to copy the tumblr post I made in addition to the two lost reviews on here into this:I just honestly love how noone, no summary of this book, no review, nothing I personally saw before I went into this & until now, thought it important to mention the numerous and extremely graphic rape scenes and the incredible hateful lens (& I obviously already expected misogyny.
It does give some insight into sexual life at the time, with scenes in a cruising area and at a wild hedonistic orgy.
It has the usual repulsive quality of Victorian pornography, but is kind of intriguing because the erotic imagination is so unedited.
There's a mystery to the authorship which involves hints that Oscar Wilde and/or members of his circle wrote it.
It certainly has a few passages which could pass for Wilde's, involving religious or decorative imagery.
Not of very much literary or erotic value but useful to scholars of queer history and Victorian pornography.
Teleny nos narra la historia de Camille, un joven que se enamora de un pianista llamado Teleny, el cual en un principio no puede comprender el enamoramiento, lo ve como algo diferente y nuevo para él, lo que empieza siendo un enamoramiento dirigido a la música y a la maravillosa forma interpretativa del pianista, se termina convirtiendo en un amor incondicional.En esta obra se puede sentir la pasión del autor, el protagonista nos lleva a vivir la historia con él, a enamorarnos, a sentir la música, su pasión por Teleny, sus problemas emocionales, a encontrarse con él mismo e incluso a sufrir por amor, por las dudas, celos y aceptación de su amor.
Calling this book pornographic is inaccurate--it is largely a love story, and a tragic one at that, that just happens to acknowledge that sex and sexuality is sometimes part of love and romance.
If you're looking for nineteenth century queer literary pornography, you'd be better off with "The Sins of the Cities of the Plains." Many scholars think this book is probably largely the work of Oscar Wilde, with some help from other authors he knew.
If you're fine with reading about sex between men, this is actually a good novel and worth checking out for its story too.
