https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13998.Storm_Rising
The only interesting thing she does is to depict the struggles that Karal has to establish himself as a viable ambassador.
And even though he doesn't succeed with everyone, he is--with the help of his friends--able to win over the previously bigoted, and absolutely unreasonable, new Shina'in ambassador.
So, instead of having scenes between Firesong and An'desha that show Firesong struggling to deal with the magically-improved Shina'in (one pep talk from Karal does the trick), we get An'desha's inner monologue that Firesong can't accept the new him.
Book two of the Mage Storms series once again follows Karal, Firesong and An'desha as well as a host of other characters as they try to stop the rising storms from creating more monstrous creatures and changing the land of Valdemar as they know it.
But he is still an excellent leader, and perhaps the best hope his men and the locals have of making it through.We also see the crumbling of romantic relationships and the beginning of new ones.
Through out it all, we have the Companions and the new Firecats as guides, but ultimately it is up to the characters themselves to win through.Another excellent Valdemar book, I'll be moving on to book three next!
I always enjoy rereading this series, but I know it has flaws. It's one of the ones that improves once I know the story. Not that the story is bad -just a little slow in parts. I love Karal and his story of finding his place as envoy, and I find the mage storms very interesting. I really like Tremane and Hardorn. But every book in this trilogy has one boring subplot -and I skipped every page of Firesong's self-indulgent whining. Still, this book is very fun to read, which is what I look for in a book.
Definitely the weakest of the Valdemar books I've reread lately, this one is very much a second book. A collection of stuff happens but none of it is linked by one major theme. The only plotline that really worked start to finish was the Firesong's descent into madness plotline, which I think could have benefitted from being the main plot, because the rest of the novel really lacked focus. While I appreciate Lackey's attempt to do an ensemble cast rather than focus on one or two characters, I really do feel she's better served with a narrower focus!
Another decent story by Lackey, but the kindle version is completely riddled with typos. Very annoying. The audible performance is also terrible: the reading is painfully paced, with very long pauses between words or phrases which are alternately vocally drawn out or read quickly. On top of that, the narrator uses excessively dramatic intonation, making the story feel whiny and angsty.
Storm RisingKaral has stepped into it when he contacts the Imperials but Karal find a man with a heart to help the locals and then we have more help and a plan to move the protection for there three lands
Full review here:http://jamesgenrebooks.blogspot.com/2...One of the most angsty book in this trilogy, but one that is necessary.
3.5*
Not as good as book one of the series but on to book three. I guess this is the reader's equivalent to binge watching Netflix shows.
I still hate Firesong, who is a predatory gay stereotype of the worst possible kind, but I love the rest of this book, especially Duke Tremane.
Peace For AllSeveral groups of people came together and started working on solving their problems. Solutions were put together to save all the different lands.
I read this enough that for quite a while, book 3 just slipped my mind: either I never read it, or forgot about it. This is a heartier book than the closing book of the trilogy...
Nostalgia redeemedSome books live up to what I remember from reading them as a child. This series is one. It's fun and adventurous and it's got some heart and soul to it.
It seems like no matter where anybody turns, there's another problem that needs solving.Mercedes Lackey does a wonderful job of keeping the conflicts interesting while avoiding getting so bogged down in them that the story stops making sense.
Whether you're trying to figure out where Firesong's good sense went or trying to come up with your own suggestions for things that might lessen or stop the mage-storms, there's something to keep you turning the pages, something to make you want to keep reading so that you can find the resolution to what's going on.
I find it comforting, actually, and she's not nearly as predictable as some writers-- being good enough of a writer to offer an addictive story with enough surprises that I find myself interested her books even as I'm annoyed by them.
The problem is that, as I have a good notion of what it takes to lead an army, and what it takes to be involved in politics and what it means to protect your own people when there are unknown antagonistic forces on many sides -- I simply can't buy that he is a bad guy.
There are some new books added to the series since the last time I read them, so this re-reading project is pretty exciting for me since it will include these new volumes, and will be in a new order.
In my re-reading project, I am going to try to read them chronologically - not by publication date, but by their timeline within the series.I really like this follow up to Storm Warning more than its predecessor!
It is a lot more exciting, and because I haven’t re-read it as much as some of the earlier books in the series, the plot itself was more surprising to me.
Great story. The emotion really shines through!
Storm Rising is a strong middle volume to the series.
Other than the "Firesong goes slowly mad" plotline - which, while sort of interesting in that an established character becomes an unreliable narrator over the course of a handful of POVs, is just too unsubtle and way too whiny to really appeal - the characters remain delightful, and while there's no real plot arc outside of the larger crisis (and the ending feels totally tacked-on) it's exactly the sort of collection of escapades that I like Valdemar for.Two plot threads in particular are worth mention.
One, Tremane's kingdom-building, I adore for the same reasons I like the crafting scenes in the Recluce series and video games like SimCity.
The second installment in what may be my favorite Valdemar trilogy to date is the first in a long time that hasn't been so wrapped up in personal feelings that the story gets derailed.
Granted, Karal spends a good amount of time pitying himself and Firesong throws a couple of tantrums, but both are tempered by involvement from different interesting characters, and so are fairly tolerable.Despite Lackey clumsily pushing a couple of her personal agendas across to the reader in this book, I continue to regard it as a very good entry.
After Storm Warning sets up the new characters and Velgarth's predicament, this is the heart of the action:Karal, struggling to fill his master's shoes and keep peace among the delegates, Natoli and the artificers, working on the solution to the Storms, An'desha, still struggling with overcoming his posession and sorting out his relationships.
I love watching the characters work out the diplomatic struggles facing the Alliance while the magical "natural disaster" of the Mage Storms sweeps over them.
I love watching Trelane beginning to question his masters and the clever tactics he uses to sustain his camp.
I think this series should be called "Cozy Fantasy".
Well, I think for this series.
I am well aware of the horrible things whihc happened in other books, which made them all the more unsettling.
I much prefer to have multiple first person narratives as in this book than just one, which is why Mags in the Foundation series is driving me nuts/getting on my nerves.
Luckily they repeat everything that happened in the first book as expostion so I don't feel compelled to read it, except i do wonder about Firesong being shanhaid into helping Valdemar....
The mage storms are growing and wreaking utter havoc.
Our young hero Karal, even with the help of his avatar firecat Altra and (equine-esque) Companion Florian, feels way in over his head.
Nothing like being someone everyone can use!Hard for old enemies to let go of distrust long enough to become allies.
But the storms wait for no one and if they don't get it together, who's right will be a moot point.I found this SUCH an irony mirror of real times, the politics and infighting.
I could totally identify with Karal's frustration with old curmudgeons simply blowing him off as too young to know anything.
Having read this series in chronological order (rather than the order of publication), this book held one amazing moment for me.
If you haven't read the books in their chronological timeline, though, you're unlikely to experience it (the books I started with were written after this one).Unfortunately, the rest of the book isn't very exciting.
The interesting parts of this book make up less than half its contents.
The important bits are all crammed into the last two chapters; meaning it suffers from 'middle book syndrome.'I am interested to see how the series concludes.
I'm a fan of Lackey's Heralds of Valdemar books, for me they're like visiting with old friends.
I like the concept of the Heralds and their horse-shaped magical Companions, and this series in interesting in that you're seeing Valdemar from the point of view of someone hailing from their traditional enemy, Karse.
If this is getting only three stars from me, it's that I think this is more for existing fans of the Valdemar books, then anything that would make someone a fan of the series.
A lot of trilogies fall prey to the second-book lull, and while I have a feeling that this will turn out to be the least exciting of the three, there were some major events in this second installment that will turn out to play a major part in the third book (I think).
A lot more character development here, and we see some romance (some falling apart, some coming together).
However, I knew coming out of the first book that I wasn't going to get anything too groundbreaking from this standard fantasy trilogy, so I'm not surprised or terribly disappointed.
In Storm Rising, mysterious mage-storms are wreaking havoc on Valdemar, Karse, and all the kingdoms of the West, plaguing these lands not only with disastrous earthquakes, monsoons, and ice storms, but also with venomous magical constructs - terrifying creatures out of nightmare.
Both Valdemar's Heralds and Karse's Sunpriests struggle to marshal their combined magical resources to protect their realms from these devastating, spell-fueled onslaughts.
But as the situation becomes bleaker and bleaker, the still fragile alliance between these long-hostile lands begins to fray.
And unless Valdemar and Karse can locate and destroy the creator of the storms, they may see their entire world demolished in a final magical holocaust.
Imaginative and creative in numerous ways, this book is a treat.
Firesong's plight provides many moments of anxiety, An'desha continues to grow and mature, Karal meets two of the Avatars of the Star-Eyed, so now he has been introduced to spirits from three worlds, four if you count the Guardian of Iftel, plus he stands up to the Son of the Sun and proves he is finally an adult.
Can't wait to see who he meets in the final book of the series.
Lackey nearly managed to disengage me from this series--something I would have thought impossible after fifteen books in a little over a month--with the way she treats Firesong in this book. Instead of being the fabulously flamboyant, deeply compassionate Healing Adept I have come to love, his personality takes a much darker shift. Eventually, that is explained, though, and almost to my liking. I do continue to like Karal, firecats, and the Grand Duke Tremane. Therefore, I guess I'll finish out this trilogy. And obsessively seek more Valdemar books. You know, just for the heck of it.
The growth of An'desha and Karal is touching and I was right about Firesong getting worse.
I was kind of disappointed in the reason---good guys are always good :P But it was a reasonable explanation and made sense.I am very interested in Tremane and his growth as a character as well.
In a way, I can kind of understand him changing into who he really is rather than what the Empire would want him to be.All in all, I was excited to start on the third book and see how they overcome their greatest obstacle.

