https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32283133-origin
Where do we come from?Where are we going? Yes, it's the new Dan Brown book. Yes, it's pulpy and ridiculous. But I have to say it-- it was really entertaining, too. The thing about Brown is that he's a mediocre-at-best writer with really fascinating ideas. If you spend too much time analysing individual scenes and sentences, then you're going to start to see the cracks, big and small. Big cracks like world-renowned scientists jumping to ludicrous conclusions, and small cracks like world-renowned
Yes, it's the new Dan Brown book.
Mindless, pageturning entertainment.In Origin, famous scientist and billionaire Edmond Kirsch is about to make a world-changing announcement.
His research and technology have led him to make a discovery about the origin of humankind, as well as their future destiny, that will shake the foundations of the world, tear apart religions, and change absolutely everything.
and Where are we going?It's hard not to be drawn in by these universal questions.
Brown touches on subjects like "fake news", the advancement of technology and artificial intelligence, and the dark corners of the Internet.
It's not the best Robert Langdon book in my opinion but it's entertaining as hell.
I love that I can look up a building or a piece of art or a religious organization I never heard of and they are all real.
So if that's your cup of tea I would recommend this book for you.Yes Robert Langdon is my guilty pleasure so sue me!
They make me want to spend days exploring museums and admiring the art and architecture.
So yes i'm gonna read this book and every other book that's gonna be published by Dan Brown in the future.
All right, Danny boy, let's see what you've got for us this time. Anyone want to take bets on how many times he mentions the Mickey Mouse watch? Man, I hope that thing gets smashed under a garbage truck.
If you’re reading this in an effort to determine whether or not you want to read Origins, I’m going to make two assumptions: 1) You’ve already read the previous books in the series and, as such, need no introduction to Robert Langdon or Dan Brown’s art/history/symbol/puzzle MO; and2) You’re not looking for sparkling prose (because, if you are, it’s a little bit like going to an all-you-can-eat $5.99 buffet and getting pissed that there’s no caviar and foie gras).Dan Brown is the Hootie and the Blowfish of thriller writers.
Dan Brown does a great job of addressing this debate in this book (even though at times I was worried that it was going to end up just being another annoying commentary on the same debate)Lead Female Characters – Brown amuses me with every new lead female character.
who just so happens to be one of the top 5 most beautiful women alive (he has 5 Langdon books, each with one of those top 5 ;) ) The Dan Brown formula – I will say that each of Brown’s book has basically the same structure.
A mystery starts (usually in a museum, church, famous building).
If you like Dan Brown – I recommend this.
When Anuradha Herur woke up this morning, at the crack of dawn, she was in no way prepared for the absolute dismay she would have to face during the day.
"If he can save the world in one day, I can read this book in the same time", she reflected.
She had read enough of Brown's books to know that her troubles had only just began.
(hide spoiler)] "You have got to stop making these things so obvious, my dear Brown", she thought.
I appreciate that Brown takes time before his books to do his "research", I do.

من أين أتينا؟ من نحن؟ إلى أين نحن ذاهبون؟ـــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــ سأل جوجان بفرشاته هذا السؤال قبل أكثر من مائة عامفي تاهيتي جزيرة الجمال والألمالتي قدم لنا منها أجمل لوحاتهوفي لوحته بالأعلى أطلق تساؤلاته عن كنه الحياة ومعنى الوجودوتركها لنا علامات استفهام معلقة في الهواء يحاول البشر الإجابة عنها بلا توقفمستخدمين العلم والأسطورة والأديان والتخيلاتويأتي في القرن الحادي والعشرين مؤلف ظريف متخصص في أدب التشويق والإثارة ولكن بطريقة ليست معتادة أبدايستخدم الرموز والخيال والعلم والدين ويصن
من أين أتينا؟ من نحن؟ إلى أين نحن ذاهبون؟ـــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــ
سأل جوجان بفرشاته هذا السؤال قبل أكثر من مائة عامفي تاهيتي جزيرة الجمال والألمالتي قدم لنا منها أجمل لوحاتهوفي لوحته بالأعلى أطلق تساؤلاته عن كنه الحياة ومعنى الوجودوتركها لنا علامات استفهام معلقة في الهواء يحاول البشر الإجابة عنها بلا توقفمستخدمين العلم والأسطورة والأديان والتخيلاتويأتي في القرن الحادي والعشرين مؤلف ظريف متخصص في أدب التشويق والإثارة ولكن بطريقة ليست معتادة أبدايستخدم الرموز والخيال والعلم والدين ويصنع أساطيره الشخصية في روايات موسوعية يمتعنا بها واحدة بعد الأخرى*******دان براون يا سادةالمتخفي وراء المؤلف المستوحى من جوزيف كامبلوالذي أسرنا مذ قرأنا عنه لأول مرةورأيناه على الشاشات يجسده أحد أهم نجوم السينماأستاذنا اللطيف الظريف والعبقري روبرت لانجدون**هذه المرة يقل عدد اللوحات كثيراتقل الرموزوتخفت حدة المغامراتفالصوت الذي يعلو هنا هو صوت محبة العلمالعلم الحقيقي دون أن تقمعه حماسة دينيةأو خوف اسطوري غير مبرر*******تسلّق موسى جبلا ليستلم كلمة الله ...
فيما تسلّقت جبلا لأفعل العكس تماماــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــ
Dan Brown is back with another thriller so moronic you can feel your IQ points flaking away like dandruff.“Origin” marks the fifth outing for Harvard professor Robert Langdon, the symbologist who uncovered stunning secrets and shocking conspiracies in “The Da Vinci Code” and Brown’s other phenomenally best-selling novels.
All the worn-out elements of those earlier books are dragged out once again for Brown to hyperventilate over like some grifter trying to fence fake antiques.This time around, the requisite earth-shattering secret is a discovery made by Edmond Kirsch, a computer genius with a flair for dramatic presentations and infinite delays.
. To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post:https://www.washingtonpost.com/entert...
Much like some of his previous works he tackles religion, particularly Christianity, this time with the age-old debate of Creationism Vs Evolution.Once again we are taken on a ride of codes and symbolism with Brown's biggest character Robert Langdon.
The story is set in Spain where Robert comes across one of his former students who has now become world renowned in the science and technology fields and as a confirmed atheist, he sits well and truly on the Evolution side of the argument.Unlike Brown's most notorious work, The DaVinci Code, although again tackling the bounds of religion there are a few notable differences.
This is the 5th Robert Langdon novel and it has the same elements of the previous books in the series: a crime in a relevant location such as a museum, a mystery to solve, a beautiful and smart woman that teams up with Robert Langdon and assists him in solving said mystery, conspiracy theories, religious intrigue, and interesting and scientific historical facts.Although some parts were interesting, the novel did not engaged me.
The author did not charm me like his previous novels did in the past.
You will have to read to find out, I feel that revealing it might be a spoiler.Overall it was ok, I recommend it to those who have enjoyed his previous Robert Langdon novels.
This novel, like Brown's others, will not pull at your heartstrings; it's very much an intellectual adventure--just like you'd expect from a Harvard professor who seems to have no sex drive nor any desire to fall in love.
The scholar running for his life, keeping one step in front of the bad guys is the juice that keeps the plot flowing, and allows Langdon to prove himself a hero.The good: brilliant concept.
The less than spectacular: The novel falls too much into a formula discovered in Brown's previous books: * The bad guys are religious zealots who are willing to kill to protect their turf rather than be open to other points of view.
When Origin, the fifth in the Robert Langdon series by Dan Brown, was published last Fall, I couldn't wait to read it.
in the end, it was a good read and I will always enjoy Brown's style, plots and characters.
Langdon pairs up with the future Queen of Spain who runs the museum where the murder occurs, then they travel the country to discover all the answers.The scenery, setting, and backgrounds are marvelous.
Langdon almost felt like a secondary character in the book.
It made the story less interesting as I couldn't really latch onto any specific character.
For thousands of years man has struggled with these questions and, in an attempt to fill the void where there is no definite absolute, has created stories and gods to explain the inexplicable.This book, which is one of the most thrilling books I've read in ages, looks at the science behind "the Origin" while taking Robert Langdon and us on a mind blowing trip around Spain!
Dan Brown began writing Science Fiction before he started his Langdon series.
While there still is the religious aspect in the book, the sheer volume of scientific data in Origin is staggering - especially if you are fact checking everything as I was doing.
عزيزي المقبل على قراءة رواية الأصل : أولاً : تأكد من اتصالك بمخدم الانترنت فأنت بحاجة للبحث عن الكثير من المواقع و الأعمال الفنية و الأدبية و ربما بعض الأسماء .ثانياً : هذه الرواية تحتاج الكثير من رحابة الصدر و العقل ، فاعمل على تنحية تعصبك الديني جانباً قبل البدء بهاو الآن انطلق ، فأمامك رحلة فنية معمارية ساحرة في أروقة اسبانيا يصحبك فيها دان براون بالإضافة إلى خليط باهر من المعلومات العلمية و الأدبية التي ستشغل تفكيرك وقتاً طويلاًدان براون ، الإسم الذي لم يخذلني يوماً ، و الذي لم يكتف بالشخصية الخلابة التي أسرتنا على مدى أربع روايات (روبيرت لانغدون) بل أوجد لنا شخصية براقة أخرى لتفتن قلوبنا و عقولنا معاً (إدموند كيرش) .
و كأننا بحاجة إلى سبب آخر لقراءة كتابه !و هنا كيرش رجل العلم الاستثنائي و العالم المستقبلي ، صاحب الاكتشافات الرنانة و عبقري النمذجة الحاسوبية ...
So after reading all Dan Brown’s books, I think I finally found the most interesting book among the five; which is ORIGINThis book also starts with the same structure like his previous novels which focuses about the religion and the past while this book speaks about the religion and the future.
Where are we going?The second question made me astounded, but in a way I agree with that fact.While reading, I had to google for many places, and art works which I did for every novel he has written so far.
It helped me to visualize the facts written in the novel and made it hardly to put it down.
That’s because this book is an exact replica of all of Dan Brown’s previous books about Robert Langdon and I’m so bored and frustrated with how unoriginal this is.
The structure of the plot is the same with short chapters that all end on “cliffhangers”, and to top it all of Dan Brown throws in a beautiful female - just like in all of his previous novels about professor Langdon.
I feel like Dan Brown wrote this book on autopilot and I’m not liking it one bit.
Even though I’m not going to finish reading it, I have a pretty good feeling I know how it’s all going to end.
In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. -------------------------- Genesis 1:1  Where did God come from? And if we decide this to be unanswerable, why not save a step and decide that the origin of the universe is an unanswerable question? --------------------------Carl Sagan Where Do We Come From? What Are We? Where Are We Going? ----------------------- Paul Gauguin  Langdon's fifth outing to the world questions the origin of life and future of mankind, and promises exciting an
None of the action felt far-fetched, and the tweaks Brown did with the usual Langdon formulas were fun to read.And above all, it is entertaining.And as to the questions of our origin and future, I and Calvin have the same answer.***** End of the review*****Beginning of rants (Major Spoilers Ahead)   SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERSI know I gave three stars, but I got so many issues with this one.
[Oct 15, 2016] I can't wait for this!Months and months and months ago (last year), I was waiting for September to come, when the date was pushed to October and when October the 3rd came I forgot about the release date, which is today! I went for lunch and walked as usual to the nearest bookstore to find the display to Origin being set!I'm glad to announce that I am the first person to buy this book in Kuwait! How cool is that?! I can't wait to begin reading! This edition is the UK first edition.
[Oct 15, 2016] I can't wait for this!Months and months and months ago (last year), I was waiting for September to come, when the date was pushed to October and when October the 3rd came I forgot about the release date, which is today! I went for lunch and walked as usual to the nearest bookstore to find the display to Origin being set!I'm glad to announce that I am the first person to buy this book in Kuwait! How cool is that?! I can't wait to begin reading! This edition is the UK first edition.
Kako Brown piše svoje knjige?Malo mitova i legendi i koja kontroverzna tema, malo povjesnih atrakcija, malo šifri, moćan neprijatelj, obavezno zgodna i pametna pomoćnica i sveznajući profesor Robert sve začiniti s malo akcije i neočekivanih obrata i aaajmo udri!Nisam čitala Browna od Da Vincijevog koda ali da vam pravo kažem malo se toga promjenilo.
Vječita borba između znanosti i religije ostala je nedorečena tako da poslije ove knjige nećete znati ništa što već niste znali.
Baš šteta jer ideja bila dobra ali je totalno ne maštovito provedena.
Znam da svi ističu kako su Brownovi romani dobra zabava, ali eto, ja se u ovom slučaju nisam zabavila
As the presentation begins, Kirsch lays out a strong argument against the need for religion to explore the world at its core.
There is little time for rest and Langdon fans will appreciate this jam-packed piece, even if it does get tangential at times.Dan Brown always packs a punch with his novels, seeking to push the envelop, but does so in such a way that the narrative does not usually seem far-fetched.
Long deemed poor bedfellows, Brown seeks to push the science versus religion debate to new levels by extrapolating the Darwinian issues over evolution and positing an argument about the beginning of human existence.
His latest offering Origin is by far his weakest; a uninspired narrative, lacking creative depth and most importantly a formulaic Langdon thriller that just doesn’t feel like a Dan Brown original.
Origin is the fifth Dan Brown book featuring Langdon.
5.	A chase across the city, solving puzzles involving symbols, anagrams, icons, an encounter with assassin and the final reveal which will change the world forever.
It feels like you are reading the same story over & over again.You could almost tell what is going to happen next, who could the antagonist and you can even guess the final reveal in the first half of the book itself, if you are paying attention.
Such was her relief upon discovering that he would instead be dumbing down Darwin's theory of evolution to a degree where her rambunctious, beloved, but insanely stupid rescue dog, who was the result of a very questionable union between a beagle and a German Shepard, could understand it, that she actually awarded him a single star on Goodreads!And so the night had passed as she laughingly regaled her insanely attractive, yet ever so slightly mysterious in an amusingly innocent way husband with yet another mind numbingly dull exercise in how not to write a novel.
I do find the way Dan Brown tells the story to be so annoying.
I did like the question Robert Langdon asks, "Who made the laws of physics for life to begin?" It's a great question.What I love is that Dan Brown only leaves questions about faith using his characters.
Someone makes a point and Dan goes out of his way to then have a little question at the end of that statement.
You think it's all played out and then there is one slight twist to shift the paradigm.There is an idea of Entropy in this story and the way it's described is amazing.
‘Nobody expects the Spanish Inquisition’, right?For the fifth time in a row, existence of the world is threatened by a ‘secret’; unraveling of which, requires a complicated scheme of solving codes hidden in modern art and literature by nefarious cults over centuries.
You know it’s too far fetching when Langdon has to deduce corporate logos such as  Uber, to show his specialty of ‘romance in short notice.’ Dan Brown repeatedly asserts Langdon’s female companion as a woman of her own, and then proceeds to prove her otherwise.
Who knows, maybe he is counting on the Catalan referendum.Origin is the least entertaining work by Dan Brown in my opinion, at least among Robert Langdon series.
Well that was quintessential Dan Brown. A literary masterpiece? Of course not, and that's not why I read him. Origin isn't his best. Overwritten in some places, underwritten in others. Premise wasn't as tight as his others but still, fast-paced, exciting, interesting, a bit of armchair travel, a crash course in art/architecture every other chapter, decent food for thought and the added bonus of having Tom Hanks in your head.Not a bad way to spend 24 hours.
En general, de Origen adoré todas estas conspiraciones religiosas de censura, la incertidumbre de qué haría una Familia Real súper arraigada al catolicismo para evitar que las religiones se desmoronaran, la aparición de Iglesias cuyos representantes eran Anti Papas, los viajes por ciudades españolas, el juego de ingenio y de acertijos y, sobre todo, la sutileza e inteligencia con la que Dan Brown va moviendo sus hilos a lo largo de toda la trama.
I adore Dan Brown.
While I was not expecting any concrete answers from Dan Brown, my heart was hoping for a deep philosophical conclusion that left me in wonderment.
Dan's conclusion, which I will not give away, I felt was surface compared to the depth of the other novels such as "Angels and Deamons" and the "Divinci Code." The novel itself was beautifully written, but I do not believe that it lived up to the expectations that a true Dan Brown fan looks forward to.
Dan Brown is an amazing writer, and although the story was not what I was exactly expecting, he still left me amazed at his writing skills.
¿Sabéis esa extraña sensación de terminar un libro y tener la mente en blanco? Pues bien, así estoy; sin saber si me ha gustado o no.
إنها رواية سيريالية بإمتياز وهذا الكم المعلوناتي الضخم لا يمكنك أن تجابهه إلا وأنت على أهبة الإستعداد مع محرك البحث لتقصي ما سوف يتحفك به "دان براون" في هذه الرائعة المميزةمن أين أتينها وإلى أن نحن ذاهبوان ...
سؤال يتردد حتى عند الطفل الذي بدأ ينمو وجدلية منسقة مبهرة تعيد إلى السطح ذلك الصراع الأبدى بين العلم والدين "يعتبر رجال الدين أكثر خطورة على وجه الأرض ....لا سيما حين تصبح آلهتهم مهددةهذه الجملة مهدت إلى ما يرنو إليه براون إليه في حبكته السردية الممتعة والتي سوف تخوض من خلالها كل مواكبات العصر الذي لم تفت على باله وهذه الإسقاطات الرائعة التي إستعان بها سليقته من القارة العجوز لبعرج بنا إلى تلك المنظمات الدينية الممولة والممولة لقيادة العالمفي حديثه عن الشبكة المظلمة والديانة السوداء والذكاء الصناعي المرتقب وما يخطط له العالم مستقبلاً في إستقراء غير مسبوق يصنع من هذه الرواية أيقونة تستحق الثناء وتبرر للكاتب تلك الشعبية التي باتت تزداد يوماً بعد يوم ...
