https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149181.Klee_Wyck
4.5 stars This little book took me completely by surprise and in no way did I expect to love and enjoy it as much as I did.Emily Carr is known primarily in Canada as an artist whose paintings often come quickly to mind when one thinks of "Canadian Art", and yet her talent shines just as brightly in her written work.
Emily Carr just sounds like a badass folks and I want to know more.I highly enjoyed this and recommend it to anyone looking for a fine piece of Canadian Literature :)
Here is my favorite quote from this book:"Down deep we all hug something.
The great forest hugs its silence.
The sea and the air hug the spilled cries of sea birds."Emily Carr traveled to various Canadian First Peoples villages to sketch their totem poles and other carvings.
In one village where all Caucasians had been expelled, they welcomed Emily Carr.
There are illustrations of three of Emily Carr's paintings in this book.
I particularly loved her painting of a mother and infant carving.
I'm not going to give ratings to any of the books I'm teaching so if my students find this they don't know what I really think of the books (cause that would be awkward)
Free download available at Faded Page.

In this small book, basically a set of vignettes, Emily Carr writes about her travels in the wilderness of British Columbia and her relationships with the Indians. There is very little about her paintings, but we learn a lot about her courage and her compassion.
I knew she could paint, but I had no idea that Emily Carr could write like this. I might be developing a bit of a historical crush lol
Vignettes from Emily Carr's life in British Columbia in the early part of the 1900s among the native Americans there. Very fine. Highly recommend.
A wonderful portrait of the BC coast, and Emily Carr's travels there. Richly woven text, a really beautiful read. A must-read for BC-coast history enthusiasts.
These sketches from Emily Carr's early days exploring the woods and meeting the indigenous people of Western Canada are a wonderful portrayal of a time, a place, a people and of the artist herself. This was my introduction to Emily Carr, so well know and celebrated in Canada. I am learning more about this interesting creative spirit and can't wait to read the historical novel, The Forest Lover.
An amazing book to read if you want to see Carr's perspective on the colonization of the Indigenous People. Exceptional writing, and makes you stop and think "should we be thankful to the colonists or despise them for suppressing a unique culture?"
Picked this up in Victoria BC and can vouch for the evocative “word paintings” Carr creates here. I felt like I was in the canoes, chewed up by the mosquitoes and freaked out by the abandoned native villages and totems. Very effective writing. Too bad there’s so little of it.
Very well done. I had no idea what she did to get her images. I definitely have a new perspective on them. Her descriptions were remarkable.
Beautiful word sketches about the author's memories growing up and painting on the west coast.
A great opportunity to step into Emily Carr's shoes and mind. Grateful she published these experiences, and now I want to see her artwork even more!
Sympathetic lyrical sketches that are as appealing as Carr's paintings.
I know this book is important to Canada, but I just don't enjoy it. I find it too shoppy.
3.5/5
Short glimpses of Emily Carr's experiences visiting native villages on the West coast to sketch the totem poles. Wonderful description.
I really liked the themes in this novel. However, not a single story stands out! I asked all my friends about a memorable moment or something unique and they all said the same thing. "Every story was the same."
However, no one should miss this wonderful little book.There are two tones which show up an awful lot in Klee Wyck - one is the quiet, reverential tone that can be felt in her descriptions of desolate ghost towns, overgrown totem poles, and rocky ocean beaches.
The other major tone that shows up, and the reason I gave this book four instead of five stars, is a sentimental tone.
Klee Wyck shows her knowledge of the significance of the totem poles, alongside her love for them and desire to preserve them.
Review I did not write Klee Wyck, as the reviewers said, long ago when I went to the West Coast Villages painting.
I could sail out of hospital and forget about everything."When asked to write about the "struggle story" of her work out West in collaboration with a biographer, Emily replied: --- "Nobody could write my hodge-podge life but me.
I could not be bothered with collaborators, nor would they be bothered with the little drab nothings that have made up my life." Her first book, Klee Wyck won a Governor General's award for general literature, the year that it was published.
Above the beach it was all luxuriant growth; the earth was so full of vitality that every seed which blew across her surface germinated and burst.
49-50."When night came we cuddled into our blankets.
The night was still.
Just the waves splashed slow and even along the beach.
51.Here are the questions we discussed at the Reading the Western Landscape Book Club at the Los Angeles County Arboretum & Botanic Garden.How did her writing style shape what she was saying?Why were all the places abandoned?Could you envision the landscape?
Another easy and satisfying read by Emily Carr. This book covers her travels along the coast as she sketches old villages. It's a bit repetitive (many of the same things seem to happen at each of her stops, including rain, lots and lots of rain). I would have liked to know more about her reasons for being there and her feelings about the journey. But, Emily Carr doesn't write much about feelings, and I accept that :) She must have been a courageous and unusual woman to make these trips, alone with her griffon dog, in those Victorian times.
After reading The Forest Lover and visiting the Emily Carr house in Victoria I was really excited to read one of the books she had actually written about her life.
What I thought was interesting and disturbing was that in 1950 the publishers decided to publish a new edition that would be suitable to be used in schools.
I really enjoyed reading about her experiences in her own words and still feel she was an amazing woman to have traveled out in the wilderness by herself to experience the Indian way of life and to paint pictures of the villages and totem poles.
This book was first published in 1941 and was the first book published by noted Canadian West Coast artist, Emily Carr.
Towards the end of her life, Emily Carr was finding it more difficult to travel and paint and started to edit the notes and stories she had written all her life so that they could be published.
When a version of Klee Wyck was published for schools in the 1950s, some stories and some sections of the text were omitted.
Emily Carr was not only a well-known painter (she is known for painting totems and other scenes from First Nations people) but an excellent writer too.
Carr has much respect for the First Nation people she meets, and a decided lack of respect for missionaries and others who do not exhibit any kind of cultural sensitivity.
Some people do not like the way Carr transcribes the accent of the people she encounters but I think it was done in the interests of accuracy rather than mockery, especially since this was written a while ago.
Carr does one of the hardest things a writer can do: express herself clearly and eloquently using a minimum of language.
This book was full of meaning and made you look at the world from a different perspective, specifically from the view of the Native people in British Columbia.
I would recommend this book to anyone looking to learn more about the Native people and their life as well as the ways that people such as Missionaries changed it.
I do believe that if you are a Canadian, then you should at least try to get your hands on a copy of this book and attempt a few stories, you'll be surprised.
The stories are full of striking and evocative imagery, and some bold (for its time) social commentary.
Personally, I don't much care for imagery.
In fact, everything about Klee Wyck disposes me not to like it, from the total lack of a concrete sense of time and place in the stories, to the hyperbolic foreword, to the simple fact that there's no way Carr, putting the book together near the age of 70, could possibly have remembered most of what she describes with real accuracy.
In spite of all that, I have nothing but respect for Klee Wyck.
As a huge fan of Emily Carr's paintings, Klee Wyck was a revelation.
The images in Klee Wyck of coastal British Columbia with its totem poles, forests, kelp beds, and Carr's stories of nasty, bungling missionaries and proud, reserved Indians enhance the mystery and depth of her paintings.
I once tried to read Emily Carr's autobiography, and became bogged down in the tragedy of her life-- that she was born too soon and in the British/Canadian culture too different from her artistic mind.
In contrast, Klee Wyck was a delight, and I read it in a single day.
