https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/419048.The_Hidden_Art_of_Homemaking
She does advise discontented housewives to treat keeping house as though it were a "career," express their creativity in their work as much as possible, and get everything they can out of it (expressing yourself is, obviously, always good advice); but she also specifically addresses the way single working men and women can create rich home and community experiences, and there is no tone of judgment in her lovely prose.Really, this is a book about getting the most out of life, no matter what happens.
Schaeffer urges us to discover and t nurture these gifts and to weave them into our everyday lives as ways to create home and family.
I love the way she helps us see God's art in our surroundings and supports our own journeys to express the art that he has placed in us.This book was written many years ago, before the computer and the Internet opened up even more venues for artistic expression in daily life.
Her book can be a springboard to even greater thinking in this area.I also like that she reminds us that we have a mission that is greater even than expressing our talents.
This one gets five big, fat, GOLD stars.
I have no idea why I let it sit on my shelf unread for so many years.
Perhaps because you must get past the first chapter to get to the meat of this book (although the first chapter is essential for the framework of the rest of the book.) You don't have to mine The Hidden Art for nuggets, it's spilling over with pure gold.
The last chapter ended too abruptly for my taste, I feel she needed to let us down a little more gently.
Brilliant principle at hand, not particularly impressive expansion of the principle, with somehow unique to her practices that expressed the premise of the book. It was less impacting that I had anticipated. I sold my copy. Not one of those books that marks you beyond the title. I wish another person would write a different book with the same title, THE HIDDEN ART OF HOMEMAKING! It can be a solid book in the hands of someone more capable.
Just the perfect combination of theology, practical advice, and winsome writing. The title might be misleading to some. This isn't "homemaking" in the sense of household chores but instead home-making in the sense of making a home. Edith Schaeffer emphasizes art and beauty, and her central point is that these things make us truly human and thus make a great home and a joyful community. This is a book that ought to handed out liberally to both men and women.
Favorite Quotes: "This book is about ‘Hidden Art’, and the need of people who are in communication with the Creator to recognize their creative abilities and fulfill some of their talents in day-by-day life...What I am talking about means taking our responsibilities and our capabilities seriously.
It means feeling that our ability to do things should be used in some way to make family life fun, and to enhance the relationships of people living together.
When Schaeffer says “hidden art” what she means is “the art which is found in the ‘minor’ areas of life.
She goes on to say that when we don’t use those gifts in our everyday life it can have negative effects on the way we view ourselves and others.The book contains many useful and practical suggestions for using our own hidden art.
She reminds the reader that we are finite creatures who are limited by choice, (often) talent, and resources and are not expected nor should we expect ourselves to pursue every area of ‘hidden art’ there may be.That I think is the ultimate take-away from The Hidden Art of Homemaking.
This is quite possibly my favorite book.
Being a homebody type person, I resonate with the art of homemaking and how it is a vital part of making a place HOME - warm, beautiful, hospitable, and marked by the things we love.
In our frantic time, it is indeed a losing art to take time for the thoughtful preparation of things like meals.
Also - for those of you interested in Everyday Theology, ordinary things have great importance.
As Mother Teresa said, "little things with great love." I highly highly recommend this book.
I found it really boring. Oftentimes the writer would go on describing things (flowers, clothing, food) for paragraphs upon paragraphs on end when a few sentences would have done the job nicely. The book really suffered from that.
I believe that Edith Schaeffer would put out the nicest towels, AND she'd put them in a handwoven basket, along with some lovely soaps she'd made with her children and some flowers she'd dried by hanging them from the rustic hand-hewn beams of her home.
And she'd greet the guests with a smile and be calm and relaxed, too!The first time I read this book, I was just starting out as a homemaker, and I was intrigued by the ideas presented.
Perhaps I'll do better with the grandchildren, God willing!I love the idea of intentionally creating beauty and celebrating beauty in everyday life.
I love this book.
I'll always be *currently-reading* it because it is studded with gems.
Schaeffer is an inspiring writer who emphasizes the importance of living creatively to honor our Creator.
Lots of cute anecdotes from her past, lots of inspiring ideas on family life/domestic living.
I love reading a book that doesn't draw a portrait of domestic life as a dreary round of dusting and toilet-cleaning.
This book is about music, art, gardening, food, etc--creating things--and is rich with respect for domestic life.
It's also not geared only to women--she notes that she knows men who knit and sew...and why not?!!!
In this short, delightful, and sometimes rambling book, Edith Schaffer dives into the hidden artist in us all and extracts beauty from the every day. We all make art - with everything around us. Highly recommend for those looking to make the mundane sparkle and to paint with their own brush the canvas of life.
Lots of practical and inspiring encouragement and ideas for making your home/life a place of beauty and creativity, and the reasoning that as Christians, we should be some of the most creative people, since our Father is the Creator of everything.The last chapter talks about environment - the environment we create in how we live and what we do.
Good, practical, creative, thoughts...
and ties in hospitality a well as doing things with purpose, love and joy - not being stuck and robotic in just doing the necessary.The style of writing can be a little "older" and some of the ideas may seem a little dated at times, but would recommend.
Sharing the refreshing originality and thoughtfulness she pours into the everyday lives of her family, she inspires homemakers in what I believe to be a lost idea in our humanistic, post-industrial, utilitarian age: a return to viewing even the seemingly unimportant and mundane tasks of homemaking as an expression of living all of life in light of Christianity.Because we have grown accustomed to labeling things as either "spiritual" or "non-spiritual" we have stripped the meaning and spiritual significance from material things and everyday tasks.
The little things do matter, and homemaking is a place where we can showcase the permeation of a biblical worldview in our homes- from the cut flowers to the live music; from the creative use of up-cycling old furniture to nutritious home cooking.
Yet within those contexts, God gives us great freedom of self-expression which in turn can be used to glorify Himself and draw others to Him.She does concede that in some cases we may only be able to cultivate an appreciation for some of these areas rather than a talent in them, and she acknowledges that probably no one can incorporate all of them at once, but she makes a strong case for each one and brings out a variety of ways to employ them in our homes.The book isn’t flawless: some of its examples and illustrations are a bit dated (it was originally published in 1971), sometimes Edith can get just a touch preachy, sometimes she goes on and on with examples when we’ve gotten the point already.
Before books like Simplicity Parenting and blogs like Soule Mama were around to remind parents our lifestyles could be an art form that communicated joy to and inspired peaceful lovingkindness in our children, Edith Schaeffer was living out an art-centric peace at L'Abri, her home in the mountains, and writing about it, so that other parents could make this attempt at heaven-on-earth come true now for their kids too.
Hearing of her death today reminded me of the days I spent, pregnant with my firstborn son, holed up with her books, crafting a concept of an intentional life in which the work of my hands and the content of my calendar could reflect and sparkle with the beliefs of my soul and the truths I could wrestle into my head.
I read this book bit by bit, stopping to savor each section and think on it a while before moving forward to the next chapter.
I liked it, although it takes a few pages to get in the groove with the author's style.
I like the way she sees life and homemaking as an art and something every Christian can learn.
It is not the sort of book you think it to be--it is more spiritual than 'religious' and there are no undertones of guilt if one is not a 'perfect' homemaker.
It's truly a joy and an exercise in creativity, as the author intended it to be.
I read this in the 70's. She was my mentor by books. I did get to meet her in the 80's before her husband passed away. If your husband brings someone home unexpectedly for dinner and all you can do is dump tuna on a plate in the shape of a can, she has help for you.
This book's title is kind of misleading. It's NOT a guide to being a better housewife - it's about bringing art and creativity into your everyday life. As a creative person, I might even say it was life-changing. I now plan to read everything else Edith Schaeffer wrote. :)
one of my "heart" books... edith is one of my favorite friends... she is my mentor, and I love her.. This book is so dear to me... I have worn it nearly out... feel free at ANY time to send me a new one.. but GET one for yourself first and READ IT>...let it dwell in you and renew you
I really do like this book; it's light, but inspiring, and makes you feel like cleaning up at home, baking a loaf of bread, and inviting friends over for coffee and conversation.(Edith Schaeffer is Francis Schaeffer's wife.)
Reread! I really enjoyed this...especially the Food and Environment chapters as well as other tidbits! So inspiring!
This is a wonderful little volumne about not waiting to practice your artistic creativity.
It encourages both men and women, married and unmarried, parents and childless, to practice your art right now, where you are.
I love how she gives very down-to-earth advice about how to do this in every day life.
It is a very 'hobbit' type book.
Life is meant to be lived creatively and artistically.
I love how she makes art something that everyone does, and not something just a few people do.
She brings art home.
I highly recommend this book.
A classic book that is as (or more) culturally relevant than anything on the new title shelves today. In fact, I think it's the fact that it is an older book that makes me trust it even more. The ideas Mrs. Schaeffer shares are timeless. She was green before green was a buzzword. She was handmade before handmade was a buzzword. She was organic before organic was a buzzword. You get the picture. Even more than that, her world view of Christians as stewards of earth and home and family and self is straightforward, yet eloquent.
I could not finish this book. While I love the Scaheffer's, this book was so dated. The suggestions for "home making" and pinching pennies were so unrealistic for today. I'm sure back in the 1970's it ws very timely and welcomed.
BEAUTY! We reflect God's creativity when we take simple moments to exhibit artistic expression in a variety of ways. Easy read but full of inspiration for me to beautify our world right in my normal day.
Mrs. Schaeffer persuasively argues that any of us can use our God-given creativity in any area of our lives, no matter how mundane.
Great for ideas in homemaking. Also provides the "why" from Scripture
I feel like this is the first Wild and Free book, before there was such a movement. Although a portion of it is dated and not relevant, it inspired me to be more creative with my kids.
