https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1246118.The_Black_Cloud
It's The Future, as imagined in the late 50s, and by the time I read it the book was already feeling a bit dated.
This is a classy disaster novel.The disaster scenario is great, but the reason geeks love it so much is the main character.
"Ah ha!" he cackled, "I have just read your novel The Black Cloud.
I thought it much better than your astronomical work." Pauli told me that he had studied The Black Cloud in some detail, together with the psychologist Jung, and, indeed, that Jung had written a critical essay on it.
Fred Hoyle the author of this book was a renowned astronomer, cosmologist, writer and a broadcaster/tv personality.
But these are only told as an incidental part of the story, the main narrative is regarding the contact and eventual communication with the invader.
There is a lot of science in this book and some of it is mind boggling but there is also an interesting story.
There is an afterword by Richard Dawkins who says it is "one of the greatest works of science fiction ever written".
I don't agree with Mr Dawkins but there's 'nowt' new in that!
I'll finish with a thought provoking quote from the end of the book..
In this respect, The Black Cloud (1957) is hard sci-fi at its best.The other reason has to do with its central character, Christopher Kingsley, who turns out to be an almost absurdly obvious ectype of the author himself.
As Hoyle notes, "there is very little here that could not conceivably happen".
But if following heady, incisive chains of reasoning is your fancy, or you enjoy contemplating wonders at the outer edge of science, Hoyle's sci-fi debut is sure to satisfy.Note: This review is republished from my official website.
Honestly, just skip the maths, forget it's got too much science and not enough sex. It's brilliant. It might be a boy's book, I know a couple now who keep it by their bed, but I found it unputdownable.The interaction with other intelligent life is very moving. The politics felt real.I wonder what would happen if everybody in the world had to read this, just to get a glimpse of what catastrophic climate change would be like. Maybe it would make us even more complacent, since in the the story itself everything sorts itself out relatively quickly. I don't know...
3.5 stars. Really good classic hard science fiction story, though the predictions of the future at the time now make the story come across a little like pulp sf. Nonetheless, this is a well written story with an interesting plot that I thought was very enjoyable. If your looking for a classic scifi read, you could do a lot worse.
And thanks to the protagonist Kingsley, who is willful and clever enough to stand up to the politicians, they will be the ones in charge, not the government.One can't help wondering how much of himself the author saw in his leading character Kingsley.
In particular he has a great disdain for politicians, perhaps reflecting Hoyle's own experience in dealing with them?The science of this book isn't generally too technical and can be skimmed without loosing much of the story if following through their thought processes and reasoning isn't your thing.
The only things I remembered was that there was a Cloud hurtling toward the Sun, there were Americans and British involved, and that there was a lot of formulas, diagrams, and lengthy expository footnotes on several pages…After re-reading it, the book’s central question is still the best of it:“What is the nature of human intelligence?”The Cloud answers by saying that one should attach labels to one’s neurological states, be it anger, headache, embarrassment, happiness, or melancholy.
What he should do was to display the label in question.
Communication would be just label swapping between two entities.In you're into Vintage SF, read on.
‘La nube negra’ (1957), del astrofísico y matemático Fred Hoyle, es todo un clásico de la ciencia ficción.
Los dos equipos, trabajando conjuntamente, deducen que la llegada de esta nube puede provocar cambios drásticos para la vida en la Tierra.La historia se desarrolla por medio de los intensos diálogos, deducciones y explicaciones de lo que está sucediendo y está por suceder.
Lo dicho, todo un clásico indiscutible del género, y un imprescindible para el amante de la ciencia ficción hard.
(En cuanto a la portada de Nova, desastrosa, ya que no representa nada de lo que ofrece la novela.)
The Black Cloud (1957) postulates the arrival of a sentient cloud of gas from space which proceeds to block the Sun's rays, throwing Earth into shadow and initiating disastrous Climate Change – unknowingly, since the cloud has no concept of planet dwelling life. After First Contact and the establishing of Communication, it just as inadvertently kills two scientists who attempt a full understanding of its nature via a kind of download process, since such intense exposure to the cloud's mentality overwhelmingly displaces their human Perception or conceptual grasp of reality.
The dream fulfillment of the astronomer!I got turned on to this classic through Manny Rayner's review of my book, Lisa: A Chess Novel.
While reading it I sensed what many readers must also have felt: I simply don't get this in my regular reading of fiction.*The logic of our plots also drove us to present a Russian who expresses truths in very terse statements.
And this allows us to follow the dream of the astronomer to the climax of extreme practical importance - when he has forever been the most impractical of all the hard scientists.I felt like I was drinking a fine wine until the astronomer's dreams come true, when he becomes the world's savior.
I really liked the beginning to mid part of this book because it tackles a very interesting and novel idea for alien species. It goes far beyond little green men, and I admire that. Also, Hoyle was a physicist and this makes the book much better than what you'd read from any random sci-fi popular science wannabe who does some "research" for few months. The world needs more scientists turned authors. The book also (Gasp!) contains math in between prose. Awesome.
Ooo så bra! Riktigt nördig vetenskaplig science fiction realism med många "lägga fram argumenten med ett glas rödvin i skenet av en tänd brasa"-inslag. Ja just det.
I personally managed to get past the science talk, the male-dominated conversations, and the political slant in the novel - the last one I struggled the most with because I really don't give a rat's arse about people in power and what games they play.
It was still very enlightening to see how science and its research and advancements had to be worked around the political aspirations of a handful people in power.
Just to add to the mess, not only is this book basically a nasty little quasi-fascist tract on the basic superiority of the 'scientist' (and the obvious inferiority of women), but those scientists who are out last best hope are so utterly, utterly full of themselves that they fail to spot the fact that should have been obvious from the outset: if a cosmic 'thing' just happens to be perfectly aimed at the Earth, in spite of having originated outside of the Solar System, it is most likely that it is not simply the workings of chance.
Una pena que un libro con una idea genial se vea empañado por la peor traducción que he podido leer en mi vida.
Se lee en un par de días, por lo que si quieres ciencia ficción en el que se plantea catástrofes naturales de origen cósmico con buena base de ciencia este libro está genial y si encima sabes ingles y lo puedes leer en el idioma original a buen seguro sería un 5 estrellas.Por cierto, ¿qué narices tiene que ver la portada del libro con el libro?
Will we be able to accept truth?
Will truth be too profound, too overwhelming, too against our beliefs for us to accept it?
Or do we accept death coz there's nothing in life beyond truth.
They've got a similar theme, feel.Yes, this book is 'hard' scifi.
And his theories of a steady state universe and panspermia clearly influence his writing and leave many unanswered questions.But this book isn't about any of it.
It's about our willingness to accept our own insignificance when slapped in the face by irrefutable truth!
Fin troppo spazio viene dato alla descrizione precisa e iperrealistica delle catastrofi dovute all'avvicinamento della Nuvola: solo il fermo rigore scientifico salva questa parte del romanzo dall'analogia con i più recenti e commerciali film catastrofici.
Prima dunque i contrasti interni nel mondo scientifico e in quello politico, poi la descrizione quasi sadica delle continue catastrofi, quindi nuovamente i contrasti tra i sopravvissuti: prima di giungere al dialogo con l'entità che "abita" la Nuvola si deve superare i due terzi del romanzo.
There, Fred Hoyle does pretty well, given he had only to describe the manner of scientific work and discussions along with political and administrative tacts which all are familiar with.But when it comes to drawing fantasies and speculation, which most of the writers of his time like Arthur C.
Some would try to excuse him on the grounds, that the book indeed, is an old classic fiction, but they just need to be shown what other writers were writing at that time.Besides, at one place Hoyle makes a lame attempt to attack the Big Bang theory and on another he makes some vague references to some 'higher' intelligent beings who, upon detection, kill the beings who try to discover them.
Fred Hoyle I discovered is a bit of a famous astronomer, and even coined the phrase 'Big Bang'.
ironically, not in support, but in sarcasm that all of the vastness of space could pop out of a pinpoint like in a Big Bang.As to the story, I loved the concept.
There is no method of stopping it's approach and it is calculated that the cloud is so dense it will block out the Sun. How will Earth survive?(view spoiler)[Of course as with man's solution to every threatening menace, they eventaully decide to nuke it!
The lengthy scientific discussions in this book often read more like a 1950's boys' own Oxbridge seminar than a novel, while its detached depictions of apocalyptic conditions on Earth were rather less dramatic than the average news bulletin.
I didn't find the book as mesmerising as Arthur C.
But its reflections on the potential varieties of intelligent life in the Universe, and its affectionate portrayal of a group of eccentric scientists attempting to align themselves with a cosmic moral compass, give it the feel of a SF classic.
Women scientists and musicians get a look-in, even, though are expected to make the coffee .
Science-fiction written by a physicist is a new experience to me - it comes with both positives and negatives, but fortunately (personally, at least), those traits cancel favourably.
The writing itself is the sole negative, seeming rather forced and not massively emotively competent; although very serviceable and scientifically frank.
The antipode in the annihilation of the negative is that which comes from the injection of pure scientific reasoning, therein dwells the clinical brilliance of this novel.
Reading as a cross between an essay on a hypothetical scenario and a gripping Wyndham yarn, Hoyle balances out story and science and excels in both, due in no small part to the former.
Highly intelligent science fiction with great scientific spirit.
I had already read Sagan’s "Contact", so the overall storytelling was familiar to me: very detailed, but somewhat uncouth, especially in the case of inner world of protagonists.Hoyle praises science, its methods and keeps the story entertaining.
He was an astronomer.
Therefore, it’s surprising to find that the best part of "The Black Cloud" is not astronomical but biological.
Well, now I understand why this book is all-time favorite of Richard Dawkins, famous evolutionary biologist (who wrote nice afterword for it by the way).I would recommend the book to anyone, who enjoys science fiction, astronomy and believes in existence of extraterrestrial life… And who hates politicians too.
Got to love some of the "advanced" technology of the time, scientists blown away by the computing power of a machine that must be programmed with holes punched in tape, but much of what is accomplished is "forecast" in this novel by things that will not be available for half a century.
Some great concepts to ponder and a far more enjoyable book than I anticipated as it presents the tale of a black cloud the size of Jupiter moving into our solar system causing sudden climate change among other things with the expected catastrophic consequences.
Get your friends to read it and you will have some great stuff to argue about!
On the reread list.
The review to read is Manny's, which is outstanding:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show..."...
the reason geeks love it so much is the main character.
Kingsley is an absurdly idealized version of the author; brilliant astrophysicist, all-round polymath (he has great taste in classical music and reads Herodotus on the train), irresistible to women.
If your partner is a geek with cultural pretensions and he hasn't come across The Black Cloud, get him a copy for his birthday.
Then look him in the eyes and tell him you bought it because Kingsley reminded you so much of him.
Woof! Droppin’ it after 60 pages. I appreciate the realistic process with which the scientists research and speculate on an astronomical event. There are many works of speculative fiction that could use a little more accuracy, or at least a realistic course of action undertaken by the characters to give weight to the surroundings in their story. This book is entirely weight. There is nothing of joy or lightness. Balance matters ya renobs!
Really makes you wonder about how you define life, scientifically.Though its lacks character development, but it makes up by quite an imaginative plot development, and by its accurate portrayal of scientific thinking, especially how it drilled down the point of testing theory by prediction, and not by confirmation with the past data.
It just feels like NOONE KNOWS WHAT THEY'RE DOING BECAUSE THEY'RE EXPLORING THE UNKNOWN AND THEREFORE EVERYTHING SHOULD BE VAGUE.SPOILERSAs I read this book, I couldn't help but feel it was a physicist's lifelong fancy.- brilliant but brash physicist who is highly respected by fellow scientists but constantly rubs politicians the wrong way and gets away with it- his team is essentially on a mission to save the world and nobody else, no other scientific team or government organisation around the world, is fit for the task- he gets to set up an isolated physics laboratory with unlimited scientific equipment and money.
This clearly is the best piece of science fiction (post-qualified) that I have read in a very long time, or probably ever. Best, in being rigorous and unapologetic in it's inclusion of the scientific method as an integral part of storytelling. While at times it did get into protracted expounding of scientific principles and phenomena, if you have an aptitude for science, it sure will keep you engaged. This frankly must be the only piece of science fiction that comes to my mind that doesn't employ the device of comedy, and I must confess, with remarkable effect.

A very grounded, but potentially plausible sci-fi novel.When I look back on it it seems that a lot of it is just scientist characters talking to each other (with the effects of the cloud on the planet mentioned in passing), but it's never less than compelling!This may be a Penguin Classic but I'd not heard of it before, and no one I've mentioned it to has either. It deserves to be more well-known.
