https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/432342.Diary_of_a_Drug_Fiend
This is one of the most amazing things i've ever read. It's a book about drugs and addiction, but it's also not about drugs at all. It's about why each of us is here, what we're supposed to do, and how to get it done. Incredibly beautiful, uplifting, and unique. Crowley is so unique and completely un-corny about the way he describes his tenets--it made me think inwardly in an intense, positive way. This uniqueness also spills over into the way he describes drugs, his characters, etc. Very beautiful
However, the depths of madness to which the characters plunge following their starry eyed honey moon with the drug and each other rounds out the portrayal in a most crucial way, giving this book perhaps it's most powerful and honest moments.Contextually, this book was written as a means of raising funds for Crowley and attracting followers to his cosmology, Thelema.
witty fun then despair
The third part completely undermines an exploration into the mind of an addict17 July 2009 This is one of the few books that I would not encourage people to read. While I am not a big fan of the occult, and tend to stay as far away from it as possible, it is not the occult connections that concern me, but rather the conclusion that Crowley reaches with regards to drugs. In any case, this book is not strictly one of Crowley's occultic writings, but the content can be quite dangerous nonetheless.
The third part completely undermines an exploration into the mind of an addict17 July 2009	This is one of the few books that I would not encourage people to read.
The wild time they experienced on the continent settles down into a hard slog where addiction takes hold.
I suspect that this book is more designed as a gateway for people into Crowley's religion (and Crowley does appear in this book, though not by name), and I suspect that it is written with the drug addicts of the time in mind.
Anyway, to finish off, I wouldn't bother reading this book, it simply is not helpful in the slightest.
Back when I was doing lots of drugs and knew lots of people doing drugs and liked to say the word 'drugs' I thought this was a great book. In retrospect, I was just high and whatnot.
I read this book when I found out the man I was dating -- the first beautiful love of my life -- was addicted to a wide variety of illicit drugs. Then I sent it to him and became a feminist. Our relationship did not end so well, but still probably as well as it could have and now he runs a children's museum. I think.
Cocaine is a hell of a drugRick James .jpgThis is basically a really weak narrative about how great and terrible drugs are and how great Crowley's personal philosophy is.
I even like fictionalized biography; but, if you ever even dabbled in drugs, and you know anything about Crowley at all, this becomes insufferably dull; pages upon pages of what being high is like written in *almost* flowery language.
If you can become your true self you don't need do no drugs.
Oh I'm sorry Crowley, "True Self".
Ugh, now that I've demystified Crowley this far I feel ashamed of my teenage self.
(Ironic that Lou winds up in this subordinate role when she is the more interesting and sympathetic of the two protagonists.) Oh yeah, and we wind up with King Lamus telling Peter he really should probably take heroin and cocaine occasionally now that he's discovered his True Will.If you go in for this kind of egoism masquerading as philosophy, you'll find it dispensed in much more readable fashion in Heinlein's Stranger in a Strange Land.Still, I was compelled to finish it, though more out of stubbornness and a well-timed vacation than because of the quality of the book.
After trying to read the purposefully nonsensical "Book of Lies," I thought I'd start with something a little more "enjoyable" - Diary of a Drug Fiend.
Aleister Crowley is a narcissistic, misogynistic, egomaniac - but the book still manages to be redemptive in its glorious descriptions of drug use that quickly comes crashing down.
It shows the inner workings of someone caught in drug addiction, their supposed "betterness" juxtaposed with the reality of their sadness.
It shows the crash, reality like a splash of water, and posits the question of what to fill the emptiness that comes after an addiction.
I will write a review after I re-read this book. This book is my favorite and I recommend it to everyone. It tells a tale between Peter and Lady Pendragon who meet one night and gets caught up in a whirlwind of drugs. It is beautifully written, has great lines of philosophy carved underneath the story, and has an very moving ending, and I don't say that about a lot of books.
But be warned, this is no “beach read.” This is a deep, spiritual, philosophical journey into the great mind of a true thinker and visionary.
Warning to aspiring writers: as you read Crowley, you may feel like a student of the violin who first listens to Joshua Bell or Itzhak Perlman performing live, that is, the level of genius that Crowley achieves is simply unattainable for most writers.
It could be read and analyzed as a true classic.
The protagonist (an obvious piece of Crowley's ego) along with his mistress reaches the heights of drug ecstasy and depths of depravity and in the end is rescued by King Lamus, who was an aggrandized version of Crowley, who teaches him the method of quitting drugs through the careful application of the Law of Thelema.It's tragically ironic to read this in conjunction with Crowley's magical diaries of Tunis, 1923.
During this time he talks about writing Diary of a Drug Fiend, and at the same time he is desperately trying to become a casual user of heroin and cocaine rather than an Addict, using the methods he advocates in DDF.
The descent into druggie madness parts are better than the silly mystical, fake church healing parts. And the entire account is full of aristocratic attitudes most junkies don't have the luxury of. But the main point of interest is to picture all of this happening in the 20's. Not an important book, but semi-interesting.
I enjoyed this more than I thought I would, I got this book because Aleister Crowley was super evil. You don't get the feeling of that from this book. It felt like quite an honest account of somebody addicted to heroin and trying to get off the drug. You can really feel the frustrations and pain of each narrator, more so from Peter than from Lou.Glad I decided to give this one a go.
Segments of the story also provide some insight into what Crowley wanted the Abbey of Thelema at Cefalù (Sicily, Italy) to look like, given that it was published and presumably at least partly written during its operation, even if the reality of life there was markedly different.
In that respect, I daresay the work was perhaps intended in part as a sort of long-form advertising brochure for the Abbey project, prior to his expulsion by Mussolini.This particular trade-paperback edition—the 1985 seventh printing from Weiser, which still seems to be a relative commonplace of used book shops—is sturdily bound and attractively printed.
Det jag tyckte var mest sympatiskt i Diary of a Drug Fiend var huvudpersonen Sir Peter Pendragons bitterhet mot Crowleys self-insert Basil King Lamus som går runt och smirkar och är mystisk (eller som Peter uttrycker det, är en "queer fish") Men slutligen, efter 350 sidor, ger sig Peter hän och kommer till insikt, med King Lamus vägledning, vad hans sanna vilja är: att bli ingenjör, bygga en helikopter och bara knarka lite ibland.
What I learned: Flirting with cocaine leads to depravity with heroine. There are some truly vivid sense of desperation in this tale. I knew of Crowley from his occult works, but never suspected he had been a one-time junky. Very enlightening.
This was my second attempt at reading this book and like the first time I read it, I just couldn't get into it.
My head hurt as I tried to get swept up in it but really my brain just kept telling me to stop wasting my time and move onto something I'd actually like.
I'm not one who usually gives up on books...I usually like to stick it out to the very end but not with this one.
Written in the roaring 20's.
Back when Coke still put coke in the Coke and added just a bit of cola, prior to folks trying to legalize pot becuse it was legal at the time.
Peter Parker (Pendragon) and his girlfriend Louise are trying to score some drugs.
I guess back in the 20's they were known as Drug Fiends, today they would be the folks that worked in the cubicle next to yours.
An interesting slice of history that is not taught in most schools.
Its taught in the clubs.
My how times have not changed.
I tried to read this book because a co-worker thought I might enjoy it (because I like Stephen King). This was extremely well crafted in terms of descriptions and Crowley's vivid command of the English language is truly remarkable. However, I couldn't dive in due to the wierdness of the tale, I stopped reading around page 33. Perhaps I didn't give it enough of a chance, but I read slowly enough that it felt like enough :)
A bunch of this is absurd and some is archaic (you can't die from opiate withdrawal, for one thing), and there's a fair amount of sexism, but in this book's innocence from the taint of the drug war--criminalization had just begun when it was written--it manages a lot more nuance than modern accounts.
Pompous, self-aggrandising narcissist attempts to update Thomas de Quincey's "Confessions of an opium eater" and plug his own philosophy into the bargain, but ends up writing something that to these eyes comes across as "Biggles Does Coke". Mildly entertaining, yes, but more likely to provoke laughter than shock or outrage. Not very good.
This is a novel about curing drug addiction with Magickal practices. When you need to snort a line of cocaine while flying your biplane over the English channel you know you have a problem. Is the solution in a free-love commune on an Italian island? The 20's never roared so loud as this.
A wonderful book. It makes you wish Crowley was still alive and you could go to Thelema.
he's something of a bastard.
This story is brutal, admirable, useful and sad until you finish it, and realize plainly that it is one of the most inspiring novels ever written. Easy and very quick to read. Well worth it.
Total dribble. Idiotic tales from an elitist dimwit adolescent. Entertaining "as hell."
one of my favorite books, a wonderful ride through the magickal ways of a man in love. a book to be read and reread.
Admittedly, I skimmed through several parts of this book, particularly where Crowley is so in love with his own words, he has his self-insert Lamus ramble for pages and pages with ornate poetry or even yet still another lecture on the meaning of "Do What Thou Wilt." Frequently, the latter is a response to Peter complaining about the negative consequences of following Lamus' advice ("I thought Jesus--er, heroin was supposed to make my life perfect!"), which may be another reason I liked watching bad things happen to his character.

