https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/406212.The_Tree_of_Life
Regardie is sadly styling his writings on the 19th century style of Esoteric literature, similar to that found with Levi as well as Meade and the Theosophists.The greatest benifit that I drew from this work is the attention to detail that the good dr shows in referring us back to the forerunners of the magical tradition he inherited and the interest he piqued in me to go back further than his writings and to start reading the sources like Iamblichus and Porphry and building up that foundation of knowledge that would help me build my understanding of Western mysteries.
Lots of description by negation of the opposite - kind of quaint really, I'm a sucker for such charms.Anyway, on to the meat of the book:This is a very clear picture of the Western Mystery tradition & forms a steady-handed introduction to the practice of that brand of magic.
Often this is a subject that bores me and turns me away, but here for the first time I've encountered a very reasonable set of arguments for investigating the Egyptian root of the practice with a renewed fervor.There seem to be precious few works in this canon which are respectable and worthy of being read cover to cover, this is one of them.
A must-read for new adepts.
I believe that Regardie is trying to remain faithful to his one time employer, but that at heart he is ultimately a Christian, something I don't think Crowley would ever let anyone know of, if it were true about himself as well.
This is a system of getting in touch with your higher self by making your world sacred, calling to the universe's deep history for guidance, and asking them/it/He/She to aide you in The Great Work of Art. It's also not Thelemic in the sense that this system is ascetic at times, and is about detachment from this sub-lunary world, in order to commune with the divine, not about some drug induced vision to write a new Holy Book for a New Aeon.
Not for me
This is a monumental work on the Tree of Life and the practical side of esotericism. There is no such thing as a quick read through of this and there is much to be mined again and again
A bit torturous but worthwhile if only for the sense of accomplishment in finishing, lol.
I had been floating around different texts from Crowley and Eliphas Levi and different websites here and there for a few years before my guitar teacher, of all people (who was, coincidentally, a member of the O.T.O.), found out about my interest in the occult and gave me this book.
As Regardie says somewhere, this was really one of the first (perhaps the first) book on magic intended for ordinary people.
But you couldn't say that if you wanted ordinary people to read your book, at least in the 30s.
It's not really a bad thing - even Agrippa wanted people to believe that his "occult philosophy" wasn't "really" magic, etc.
Reading this now. Regardie is more accessible and easier to understand than Crowley. He was his secretary and has really organized the systems for us. Pure Golden Dawn stuff.
have to read this one several times... in life
Very good resource on magic(k), incorporating Qabbalah with Crowley, by Crowley's secretary Regardie.A little hard to read at times and lacking in a sense of humour - partly understandable in that it was written by a young zealot - but comes into its own in the final chapter, on invocations.
His poem, quoted in the section above praised, is the most beautiful part of this well-composed grimoire.I am, paranthetically, glad that Leary and Wilson showed up to inject a little humour into magick, else likely the practise would not have survived the hilaritas of the '60s.
Very valuable teachings on spiritual elevation and practises towards attainment for theurgists. Differentiation between good and bad magic, evil in the heirarchial tree, as opposed to mastery and adeptness of genuine methodolgy for god people.Rites and rituals, their associated experiences during the upward elevation of the spirit from dense form to radiant form, is remarkably communicated in this work.This document must be read several times. Those in the system of yoga and salvation, who wish to become adepts through mantra, commitment, sustained prayer and spiritual merit, may benefit from the lessons it offers.
Anything by Regardie is great if you're a western occultist. I wish the Cicero's would not have messed with some of the text, but the majority of the original text is here.Regardie can be difficult to get through, but all of his works are worth it, this one in particular.
What a slog. Some credit should be given that this is basically the book that founded a genre, but any book you read since then on the subject will probably convey more information in 1/10th the words.
🙌🏽
A broad study of high magic that manages to be also readable and approachable is a rare find. Fascinating.
Going through the Non-Fiction on my shelf, It was interesting enough to hold on to, but it's been so long I don't remember the details.
It seems so odd to me that a religion such as this that is put down by many Christians as evil and such is actually based off of the bible quite a bit.
This was shocking to me since the bible is an incomplete book that has been translated so many times by so many different people at different times I don't see how anyone can base anything off of it in the slightest.
There was however something heartwarming about Regardie's style of writing which kept me captivated, and it soon became obvious that subsequent revisits would yield new insights into the material contained within, after absorbing for a while what had consciously and subconsciously stuck in my mind.While a lot of the language might seem old-fashioned and convoluted by today's standards, this is one of the points which to me give this volume its special charm.
Anyone searching for an introduction to the philosophy underlying Western esotericism, will find the perfect starting point in this book.
This book is pure magic.
As an introduction to whatever mystic or occult tradition (or non-traditional approach), this book totally delivers.
The treatises on mythical origins of the theurgic practices and traditions are great, mostly the topic on egyptian mythology.
Yes, the writing style may not be as light and proficient as that from modern books, but it definetly is unique to Regardie's work.In general a very recommended book for anyone who is interested in introducing themselves in the world of the occult or is interested in the origins of the different traditions and currents therein.
I must admit, I once purchased this work, read it and then sold it.
I have since moved beyond the inability to see beyond my own terminology and have now rediscovered the work.
Regardie here masterfully presents an intense study into many aspects of magic.
Regardie weaves greater wisdom into the spaces between words than is at first apparent.
The work is a symbol from which many interpretations and much value may be reaped.
It is a work to which I shall continue to return over the years.
Read this decades ago along with anything else by Israel Regardie. It's very informative and very much a product of it's time. Nothing new to me here but is always worth the read as a kind of revision exercise.Good.
kabbalah/magick
A complete collection of all things metaphysical including history/origins and explanations!
