https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/558059.The_Fractal_Geometry_of_Nature
We are in 1982, Mandelbrot got a computer and is showing us the geometry nature has been using.
Have a good look through that window.
Euclid’s geometry works for human made stuff (before 3D printers) but fails with clouds, trees, your hair (in that reflection) and so on.
Nature is ingenious using a blend of chance, scale and repetition creating regular irregularities here called fractals.
Being a maverik, Mandelbrot introduced the fractal dimension assuming that “to see is to believe”.
There are plenty of puzzling plots in this book.
But Madelbrot’s erudition and eccentricity makes this book a fractal itself.
More a reference than a read, Mandelbrot was the first mathematician and naturalist to embrace fractals, second citizen equations that turned out to be elegant expressions of much of the patterns, sequences, arrangements we can see in molecules, simple life forms, organ systems, complex life forms, environments, ecosystems.... Some of it is user friendly, some needs to be skimmed by those who don't care about the math, but Mandelbrot is supportive of both kinds of readers.
I have to admit that this book has been sitting on my shelves half-read and gathering dust. Mandelbrot's a fairly good speaker (from what I've seen of him on documentaries), but a trying and tedious writer.If you're looking for pretty pictures of fractals, there are some. If you're looking for the formula for the Mandelbrot set, it's here. If you want to understand the theory behind fractals, this is not the best introduction.
I believe this is where I first encountered such oddities of geometry and math, some of which were once thought to be monsters, as Cantor dust, Sierpinski triangles, Koch snowflakes, Peano curves, and the like.
A solid understanding of the book is likely to be beyond anyone who lacks some training in higher mathematics, but the intrepid reader can still learn much.
And nowadays, the Internet is at hand to assist, which wasn't the case when I read this in the 80s, not very long after its publication.
I have to admit it: I simply love this book.
However, this book is quite out of the ordinary.
If you are a linear reader, this book is definitely not for you.
Its structure, the way topics are introduced and developed, everything in it resembles a fractal.
But the book is useful, very useful: it has thousands of ideas.
If you are a researcher, you will find plenty of inspiration in this book.
If you are a non-linear, casual fractal lover you will enjoy this book.
If you are a classical, linear reader you will stop reading not even one-fifth-way through.

the essential reading for chaos and fractal
A modern classic. The style of writing lurks between the literary and the scientific, very much like the topic itself.
The writing style is difficult, but soldier on. It is worth the effort. If you are interested in Chaos theory, Spinoza, the beauty of maths, this will give you goosebumps.
Amazing images and a very cool concept, well explained. Fractal make sense out of nature.
This book gives you so much knowledge if you want to be a mathematician.Fractals are a genomic figure each part if it is that same as the hole.The thing I like about this book is that it teaches you so many things.
You'r know more things in the book than others.It's teaching you about different things in nature and in other things like models for clothes, mountains, etc.
The things I didn't like about was that I didn't understand some of the words because they were so complex to say.
This is an absolute classic!Mandelbrot claims that patterns of Nature are so irregular that, compared with Euclid, Nature exhibits not simply a higher degree but an altogether different level of complexity.
This is why he developed fractal geometry to describe the "formless" irregular and fragmented patterns around us.
He called this family of shapes fractals.Mandelbrot provides a mathematical definition of fractal (p.15), but believes that one would do better without a definition (p.361).
A common misunderstanding is that the notion of fractal is wedded to self-similarity.
This is emphatically not the case (p.166).
There are non-self-similar fractals.
Indeed, it is really to those quiet, anonymous men, who established the halls of science that Mandelbrot writes this book to, for he would have liked for them to experience the joy he feels at being able to explore these monsters, while many of them did not, due to the contemporaneous level of mathematical understanding not yet understanding how to recognize (and thus, explore) the fractal nature of geometry in all its glories.
"The Fractal Geometry of Nature" is a book to be skimmed by many but read closely by few because its excellences are so uneven.
On the one hand Mandelbrot creates truly wonderful images that allow most people to see how nature can be described by fractals.
On the other hand he freely engages in formulas that any non-mathematician reads but fails to grasp.
In all honesty I probably understood all of his images, 4/5 of his prose, and perhaps a 1/4 of his formulae.
Still, I am far richer intellectually for reading his work and you will be too - but you might just want to look at the pictures.
This book may just provide a hunger in a student to learn more about what fractals are in math. It is something I have studied for quite sometime and I hope to incorporate in my future math classes as a teacher. The images and mathematical properties of fractals are fascinating! Even if someone doesn't understand the mathematics behind fractals they can use technology to create some interesting fractals.
The complexity of nature as explained by the genius behind the study of fractals. I can never look at a fern leaf the same way again. The illustrations alone in this gem of a book are worth its purchase price. Gaussian curves, the Julia Set, all explained - albeit a little technical for me in many chapters.
This is a well written book...But, it is not for the mathematically intimidated...Nevertheless, with some basic understanding of at least a third year level of scientific and engineering based mathematics, this book will proveto be quite readable and understandable.
After seeing the author lecture I bought this book, which is completely over my head but illustrated with some of the most beautiful fractal representations I've seen. For anyone interested in fractal geometry, specifically in nature, its a great place to get inspired.
What a book! Unlike anything you may have read before. The book itself has fractal structure. Truly a master piece. It covers almost everything from a strictly geometrical point of view. Linear readers beware, you may get really annoyed by this book.
Technical and, in fact, not my favorite book on the topic. Nonetheless, sometimes it is good to get your story straight from the horse's mouth.
I didn't really read this. More like glance through. I thought it would be a book of pretty pictures of patterns in nature. Its not. It is like a mathmeticians text book. Oops.
http://www.guardian.co.uk/artanddesig...http://www.ted.com/talks/benoit_mande...
breezed over most of the math in the last 20 chapters except for the chapters on turbulence and finance, my primary interests.
Very technical and repetitive. I read about half of it.
Beautiful in its unfoldingInsightful in its messageAn essay to be enjoyed!
Not a quick Sunday afternoon read, but nature is amazing. There are secrets and beauty in everything around us.
an immensely pertinent epistemological text..
This one was over my head.
Started 2012.06.22 - This is an interesting read, but my mood has changed to a different topic. This is shelved for the moment.
http://www.ted.com/talks/benoit_mande...Here he talks at TED
