https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/488270.Noddy_Goes_To_Toyland
(His head is on a little spring, so it was an obvious name for him.) But Noddy Goes to Toyland, told me in eight chapters just enough to satify my first questions, and to make me want to read more.It starts with Big-Ears the Brownie, a kind of dwarf-like creature with a tall pointed red hat and a long white beard.
But Big-Ears says that because the little wooden man is not a brownie he can't live with him in his own town (there are obviously a lot of rules in this place) so he offers a lift on his bicycle to the station, so that he can catch a train to Toyland.
Stumbling upon Noddy gives a nostalgic feeling. Enid Blyton has created magic and memories here. Recommended for children.
More interesting than expected, i think noddy is actually a bobblehead doll. The story is kinda racist and there are golliwogs so... yeah there's that. On the other hand there are pictures of a golliwog holding hands with a little white doll so maybe it was quite progressive for the times, or i'm just reading too much into it ;) .
Pure nostalgia. If you have children and you stumble across this book I think they will enjoy.
Noddy takes off from a wood carver ala Pinocchio I guess but for Noddy things are different. He does run around starkus for a while before getting some clothes and assistance along his road to being a respectable member of society in Toyland - the first of the Noddy books which I'm sure I read as a child, but it was interesting to read now with a different view. Another plonker of a cop though, with the name Plod it is no wonder they didn't like Blyton much.
Oh!What a fun reading.The innocence and the purity of the content reminds me of those times of my childhood, where there was no hatred, ego, evil thoughts, etc. Childhood was the only essence of life , when my heart was pure and my mind was mine alone. Though, this phase is short lived, comic books like this one will make your heart young and you will re-live this period.
As sweet as ever. Noddy was the first book I ever held in my hands and devoured. I guess, I was around 4, then. Decades later, I was overcome with the same felicity, on flipping through the pages of this one. Such adorable illustrations and cute storyline.
But before too much fun can begin Noddy gets his first court date, to decide whether he is a toy or not, and things are looking grim.
This books adventure begins when all the animals from Noah's Ark are let out the gate and the male lion refuses to return.
Noddy is deemed a toy, meaning he can stay at Toyland, and the first thing he aims to do is pay his friend back for helping him out by working hard enough.
Every year I start with Children's books, to "train myself" (having a Grand Daughter who is almost one year old).Noddy goes to toy land is a funny book: like all of us, Noddy does not know what he is until the relationship with others confirms his being a toy and his right to stay in Toyland. Funny and interesting for small children. I also loved Big Ears!Maria Carmo,Lisbon 1 January 2017.
I had a bunch of Noddy books even before I could read. My mom would read them to me and there was a phase where I wouldn’t eat until my mom read out a Noddy Book or so I am told. There were a couple of books that I knew by heart and would pretend to read out from them.Noddy is a fun pal to have as a child.
One of my fave childhood book. Cuma saya ingetnya judulnya Noldy, hehehe. Ini buku yang bagus buat anak2 yang baru mulai belajar membaca karena ada ilustrasinya (seingat saya sih). Noddy dan Smurf lah alasan buku menjadi sahabat saya sekarang.
'Noddy goes to Toyland' was one of the first storybooks I read in my childhood days. This was how I stated getting interested in reading more and more storybooks by Enid blyton . I love all those characters in this story. And now again I am reading it just to relieve my childhood days. :-)
nnm,.
Used to read this when I younger, a different one every night and was bored reread the first one. I actually really enjoyed it!
hmm
Funny and Cute
