https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/105.Chapterhouse
Of course, each of these (yet not always described in a homogeneous amount of detail) are incredibly complex societies with interesting dynamics which made for great reading.ReligionsZensunni (overall fusion of Islam and Zen Buddhism which is sort of the ambient religion across the Known Universe)Sufi (closely related to Zensunni - very close to Bene Tleilaxu core beliefs)Freemen Worship of Leto II / the God Emperor / the Tyrant (for Bene Geserit) / Guldur (for Honored Matres)Orange Catholic (remnants of Roman Catholic faith)Note: The Bene Geserit, while originally derived at least partially from Roman Catholic Monastical practices views religion as a tool for manipulating the masses and opportunistically plays religions off each other)I liked the mashup of Zen Buddhism and Islam and found that it was a creative way of projecting out human development.
After many books written since his death, pundits have stated that the only notes left is a post it note that says, "write more books."In this installment the direction taken in Heretics of Dune, the fifth book in the series, published in 1984, continues with the Bene Gesserit front and center.
Heretics had followed a thousand five hundred year hiatus following the events in the fourth novel, God Emperor of Dune(published in 1981) and had taken a new direction, resurrecting much of the intensity and charisma of the original.
It's book 6 in the very impressive and automatically Epic series that encapsulates over five thousand years from the events of Dune, ending with the centric viewpoint of the Bene Gesserit after the tyranny of Paul's son and the great diaspora that scattered all the peoples of the galaxy after his death.
:) We know that Jordan was a big fan of Dune and stole a tone of great ideas from Herbert, so this shouldn't be too surprising, but rather than a 5-6 enormous spread of books, Herbert accomplishes a success-from-below story in a single novel.
To Herbert's credit after the previous book he realized nobody would care about completely emotionless characters, so some of them began rediscovering said emotions, but for me it was too little too late.
The book and thus the series end in an unresolved cliffhanger.
I already mentioned I could not care less about every single character in the book, so for me it was not a cliffhanger, just unresolved plot-lines.
All I want to say here is that you will not have the right idea about Frank Herbert's idea about Dune if you stop after the first book like countless people did.
Unfortunately, the first eighty percent of this book were a total chore to get through.
After having read those eighty percent, I was more or less ready to give this book a one-star rating.Even so, I'm raising the whole book to three stars based solely on the short part in the end.
Frank Herbert has once again demonstrated his ability to write a boring book where nothing happens and then turn everything on its head in the end.
I was almost tempted to give up on the series on occasion while reading this, but after reading the ending there's absolutely no way I could do that.
I am a reader who sometimes enjoys books that make me work hard.
If you manage to finish all six books, you will find that parts of them come back to you unbidden years later, and you will pleasantly sit and wonder at the meaning of some passage and the vastness of Herberts imagination.
It's hard work, but as with most strenuous climbs up high mountains, the view from the top makes it all worth it.
The two subsequent novels - Heretics of Dune and the one under discussion - recaptured a bit of that original power though they, too, suffered from far too much plodding, philosophical distractions.For the most part, I like what Herbert has to say about politics, emotions, the role of history and other themes but they destroy the books' pacing, threatening to turn them into Platonic dialogs rather than novels.The plot: It's several thousand years after the Tyrant's death.
Whatever the case, they rampage through the Old Empire, destroying any opposition with insane orgies of violence that leave entire planets (including Dune) "sterilized." And the Bene Gesserit are the particular targets of their wrath.The best aspect of these latter works is that we deal with an almost entirely new cast of characters, with the exception of the ubiquitous Duncan ghola.

Read it to find out!Chapterhouse: Dune is famous for it's ending, which has been alternately called "cliffhanger" and "open." There has been raging debate over the intervening 25 years whether or not Frank Herbert intended to complete the saga with a 7th book, or leave it open-ended and finished with Chapterhouse:Dune.
I won't get into any spoilers here, but suffice to say that the fact that the VAST MAJORITY of the "sequels" tie in characters created and introduced in Brian Herbert and Kevin Anderson's "prequels," written YEARS after Frank died, and it's clear that, even though the outline may very well exist, they did not follow it one bit.
i think i read the first book when i was 12, and for some reason got the idea in my head that i should read the whole lot in rapid succession.
you know when you begin to go on dates with someone that has been an intermittent and casual friend?
you think, well, they seem perfectly nice, reasonably intelligent, compelling conversationalist, let's try.
you find that you begin to panic a bit after spending more than a couple of hours with them as you start to understand that not only did you entirely underestimate their intelligence, but that you had no, not even a whiff of an idea of how fucking weird they were.
[Nota Bene: As Frank Herbert's last two published novels in the Dune series, Heretics of Dune and Chapterhouse: Dune, along with the unwritten Dune 7, in fact comprise a single story that happened to be divided into three parts, I'll post the same review for both of the two published volumes.
But I think what Herbert was getting at was that as he matured as a writer he came to see, as many writers do, that plot per se is less interesting than character, no matter how many car chases or lasgun exchanges are involved.I for one can't separate a reading of the last books of the Dune series from knowledge of what was going on in Herbert's life as he wrote them, which he did, by that way, at an absolutely furious pace.
This is probably the best book so far in my opinion. Excellent storyline and well written, and gripping to the end
A good end to the Dune series.
I can only imagine how Herbert's death got the fans widly speculating on what implications or conclusions could be drawn from the ending, which finely closes the books on a mysterious and entrancing note, but also leaves room for much to follow.
I don't know if I'll ever read them, but the series has ended appropriately, and is to me the pinnacle of epic science fiction imagination and lore, begun by one of the masterpieces not only of the genre, but of literature.
As far as I am concerned, this is the last Dune book (besides the Encyclopedia) and should be considered the end.
The disappointing tripe of Hunters and Sandworms of Dune by Brian and Kevin are nothing but poorly written fanfiction.The consequences of Leto's Golden Path are made apparent in this and its predecessor, Heretics of Dune.
Unfortunately it is, for we have been denied Herbert's genius after his untimely death.We can assume that with Leto's Golden Path, Siona's 'no-gene' and the Scattering that humans have spread across many galaxies and this would eventually give rise to myriad races and civilizations, which in itself is a more than intriguing thought.Thank you for sharing this fantastic story with us, Frank Herbert, and may your legacy be always cherished (even if not from Brian and Kevin) We love you.
Buddy Read withMarkus
and what a perfect way to bring this series to an end.
Well worth the devotion, this series follows one genetic line with supra-sensory perceptions which gave birth to a messianic figure and his son, whom became a galactic tyrant in the name of progress, nay, of love.
i could gloss over the insane amounts of information and wealth of ideas/ research Mr. Herbert put into this story-line, but would rather you deduce for yourself.
The series gets bigger and better with each new book.
Do yourself a favor; there's a reason why this series is considered the Sci-fi LotR.........
A thrilling and satisfying end to the Dune saga. I know there's quite a bit of evidence (including in the text) that Herbert intended to write at least one more Dune novel, but I feel quite satisfied with this as a concluding chapter. I don't believe I will read any of Brian Herbert and Kevin J. Anderson's sequels or prequels; I have not heard good things, and Herbert's vision was so unique that I have trouble imagining that even his son could continue it in the same vein.
-- Read the 1st one by Frank Herbert "Dune" if you like it...2.
Its 3 books written by Frank's son Brian and a author I really like by the name of Keven J.
4. -- By now you have committed enough time in the series that you probably NEED to finish it.
Frank Herbert died before finishing the series.
The authors of the prequel series (his son Bryan Herbert and Keven J.
Anderson) finished the series from compiled notes from Frank, Brian's experience talking to his father about the series and both Brian and Kevin's love of the Dune universe.
the Rasputian, scheming Bene Gesserit, for control of the old empire and the fate of humanity (though in this installment, the Bene Gesserit come out of the myopic distortions of the first five and into a clearer, cleaner focus).As with the other books, this one is full of remarkable insights into government, politics, economic necessity and - in short - human behavior; and as with the first five books, right up until the very end the conclusion is shrouded in mystery: what is the plan of Mother Superior Odrade?
Who are the Honored Matres and from whence did they come?
But I totally disagree Frank starts the book giving the reader strands of his main plot through dialogues and monologues you should really read and reread as they contain in most of the times foreshadowing for Frank's brilliant idea and genius end and what I decided to call a tragic and end.
Frank makes you love each and every character, lets the reader admire this one and the other, and builds a plot in a pace that will and without doubt shatter you at the end of the book.The book ends with cliffhanger.
Frank Herbert's last Dune novel suffers from the same flaws as Heretics of Dune.
One that I didn't mention in my review of that novel, but which certainly applies to both, is the lack of a character to care about.
In the first four Dune books, Leto, Paul, and Leto II provide central figures whose rises and falls the reader becomes invested in.None of the characters in Heretics or Chapterhouse stand out in that same way.
Maybe another part of the problem is that I was never impressed with or interested in Duncan Idaho, the only character who appears in all six Dune novels.
I think that this final novel is the perfect conclusion to the best sf series in history.
First time I've read it I liked it, but when I've reread it I loved it.
Maybe because I was sitting in front of split city museum when I was reading it for the first time, and Split is so beautiful it can be distracting.
Anyway, all of suppleness that you can find in Herbert's best novels- it's definitely there.
Now, I'm not sure how many times I've read it so far, maybe four of five.
How many books are out there that you can reread so many times?...
Having reached the end of this long and arduous series, my dominant thought is 'finally.'Chapterhouse: Dune is similar enough to Heretics of Dune that it seems as if it could be one book split in two.
Chapterhouse takes place only a few years after Heretics, and like Hereitcs, it involves average writing, a mildly interesting plot, and typically static characters.
If Herbert had been a stronger writer, this could have been exceptionally powerful.In a similar way, Murbella serves as a breather between stiff and hard-to-follow dialogue among other characters.
Interesting ending (were the old couple actually god and his wife?), although it leaves many unanswered questions and various loose threads - which apparently his son Brian Herbert has tried to tie up in the later novels based around his Fathers notes.
However, Chapterhouse Dune is a good ending, carrying on from where Heretics of Dune finished.
i'm very tempted to read books 7 and 8 by his son brian and kevin j.
and after reading some reviews of their dune books, i think it is in my best interest to leave my longing in tact.
sometimes it's better to leave a sense of history and mystery.
sometimes it's better to not fully understand the Golden Path, instead of have it spelled out to you like a harry potter plotline.maybe when we die and get uploaded back into the universal consciousness, i'll get to understand frank herbert's intentions for the end of this story.
It actually seems to have a point and purpose, two things that have been lacking in this series for a long, long time.The blatant and offensive sexism of the previous two books has been toned down significantly.
Child rape is never acceptable, whether the victim is male or female, it is still just as horrific for one or the other.In conclusion, though this book makes some vast improvements upon the previous volume, it still must try to stand upon the weak foundation that that book laid for it, and frankly it just failed to do so.
At least until this one.In my review of Heretics of Dune, I said that a big theme of the series is expanding humanity -- pushing human nature to new heights of abilities and forms from the Guild Navigators, Bene Gesserit, Mentats, Tleilaxu, Face Dancers, Honored Matres, and more.
Not that we'll give up the big projects (and the Dune universe contains some big projects indeed), but they're not the only thing that makes life meaningful.Darwi Odrade is one of my favorite characters in the Dune series, because I think she understands the importance of rediscovering humanity in the wild expansion and remembering the meaning of the smaller things in life.
Bunicică, m-am chinuit un pic să termin seria, nu se compară nicidecum nicio carte din serie cu prima, care e un etalon în materie de SF zic eu. Nu știu care e cauza, ce a făcut autorul de nu a mai putut duce seria cum trebuie, dar rămâne totuși un gigant. Pentru mine, prima carte e cea mai bună, nu doar din serie ci și din literatură în general, din serie, poate a 3-a ce mi-a mai plăcut destul de mult pe alocuri, în rest, cam mediocre operele.
Aunque creo que es un poco mas aburrido que sus libros antecesores, sigo pensando sobre la genialidad de este libro.Frank Herbert es un genio
Goodbye Dune. A nice letter to his wife at the end.
