https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/614863.The_Blessing_of_Pan
Published in 1927, this is a highly unusual tale of fantasy.
Set in rural England, a quaint village where all is as it should be ...
except that, of course, it isn't.
The sound of a flute is heard, the village priest worries, people stir ...
Told beautifully, this story is about a village's return to paganism - a trip way back to a time when we were still following our instincts.
Go out on a limb, maybe even light a joint, take yourself to a different place and read this truly unusual novel.
The vicar of Wolding senses the changes coming and knows that it is young Tommy Duffin who sneaks out at night and plays his reed pipes upon the hill, a melody that turns people's thoughts away from the things that they should be on, away from the things that they should hold dear.
Gradually, one by one, the people of the village go over to the other side.This book explores the tensions between the old and the new, tradition and change, the things we know and the things we don't, between the generations and between mankind's ways of dominating or living in harmony with nature.Once again I am astounded by the elegant writing of Lord Dunsany.
The Blessing Pan is one of those ambiguously fantastic novels in which it's never quite clear whether the magic is taking place in reality or in the minds of the characters.
Elderick Anwrel, a nineteenth-century Anglican priest, finds that his parishioners have started to worship Pan, Greek god of shepherds.
His struggle to win them back to the fold forms an epic novel of spiritual warfare.Lord Dunsany's writing is dense and rich, and readers used to contemporary fantasy may find The Blessing of Pan very slow-paced.
The 'action' is definitely more metaphysical and mental than physical- Anwrel's struggle with Pan takes place mainly in agonised conversations and soul-searching.
Gracefully satirical, gently humorous. A pleasant book for those who listened to the piper at the gates of dawn as children reading Wind in the Willows, but fear they have strayed far from the river as adults.
Pan seems to be able to do nothing more than ruffle the feathers of a stuffy vicar in this tale.The sleepy village learns to adapt to the call of Pan with barely a ripple in the surface of its placidity. This isn't Lord Dunsany's best work even if it's beautifully written.
I found it most interesting that, in the end, the vicar can only appeal to a sense of community rather than to the idea that his religion conforms to a metaphysical truth.
