https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1296272.Two_Solitudes
I was therefore shocked to discover overt hostility to English-speaking visitors and the frequent presence of Acadian independence flags all around the coast.This experience reminded me of one of the most remarkable traits of Canada that isn't shared with its neighbour to the South: cultural continuity.
Canadians, the reader is led to believe, tend, in a very English way, to muddle through, to make small, incremental, half-hearted attempts at social change.
Given my experience on the Acadian Shore, it strikes me that Canada has indeed found a middle way between the ideological destructiveness of the United States and the political stagnation of pre-WWII ethnic relations in the country.
My ineffable Quebec, my love Quebec is a magic place. You see it and you are besotted. You live in it and you become addicted by it. Almost imperceptibly you think of it not only as your home, but also as your wonderland. I often wander Montreal’s streets, never tiring to marvel at the people and places’ diversity. Nowhere else in the world the word “cosmopolite” makes more sense than here, furthermore, I almost believe this was the place that originated it, with its incessant scrolling of peop
And so alien for a stranger, even a European like me, who cannot help but sharing the feelings of Paul Tallard, the character with mixed origins in the novel:“Does it feel funny belonging to both races?”“Well, it makes it impossible to be enthusiastic about the prejudices of either of them, and that can be uncomfortable sometimes." Here is one of the reasons I found MacLennan’s book so interesting.
The Tallards came to Quebec with Frontenac in the 1670s and for nearly three hundred years have epitomized the virtues of rural Quebec – closeness to the land and the church, a suspicion of outsiders and a contempt for the English; but Athanase has seen the future and it is science and industrialization and his attempts to try to change the village near his country house sets in motion the drama that follows.
Athanase Tallard has an old and well-stocked library and he wants to write a book about the role of religion in Canadien society.
Two Solitudes is spectacular on so many levels. A true Canadian classic, this book has so much in its pages and is definitely worth reading.
It is probably true that being forced to listen to Sloan and The Tragically Hip by Canadian Content laws is a good thing for the country in some way or another.
And trying to be Really Canadian (usually, by the way, this means you focus on Quebec and Ontario and occasionally mention Nova Scotia, and seemingly forget any other part of the country) is pretty much the least Canadian thing you can do, and is also just annoying, especially to those of us who have lived through years of being force-fed Really Canadian Stuff.
But I made an exception for this book because it is one of this year's Canada Reads finalists and it has been about four decades since I read it the first time.On picking it up for the second time, I only vaguely remembered the story line.
:)So this book although first published in 1945 is chock full of things that interested me decades later in '72.So, did it stand the test of time?
But I do think it is a book all Canadians should read and I look forward to it hanging around in the CR debates, hopefully to the end.
My third read of this book.
Long. I didn't enjoy a word until over half way through and even then...
Great insight into the Quebec-English Canada conflict. The plot is not well developed in places with characters disappearing and later reappearing in the story.
A little too pat and melodramatic, and far too self-consciously political in a way that no longer resonates, but I couldn't stop reading it.
But, I do know that I really liked it.
The divide between the French & English goes back to our founding, as every Canadian knows, but personally, it's always just been a historical fact or something I've known, but never witnessed or understood, or even discussed with an actual French Canadian.
I've spent my entire life on the very western edges of Canada & thus am extremely far removed from & unfamiliar with the relationship that has existed over these hundreds of years.
It's about making your mark in this vast country & being who you truly are, without abandoning or ignoring all that came before you.
what a dense, wonderful important novel. this was a re-read for me but i had lost so many details over the years it was like a new experience, this time through. following the strands of story arcs concerning 'two solitudes', through this novel, was amazing. maclennan wrote about so many important issues and brought heart and humanity to the telling. certainly a canadian classic and a book that should continue to resonate for generations to come.
As a Montreal Anglo, I found this book particularly interesting to read. I'm very curious to hear how a French Canadian would take the book, which explores the relationship between French and English in Quebec around the time of World War I. Times have certainly changed.The passage about the soldiers returning home from war was particularly moving.
an important book for all Canadians
There are the solitudes of the English-speaking Canadians and the French-speaking Canadians, and the book depicts so clearly why there has been so much discord between the two nationalities in Canada.
It depicts the solitudes of the Canadian way and Canada and our nearest neighbours the United States of America, and how and why there are such differences between the two countries.
Canada took it’s rightful place on the world stage after that war.
As Paul struggles with his English and French Canadian identities, he goes through many epiphanies that enable him to understand the solitudes and why they are there.
The title reflects a number of themes that are portrayed throughout the book – the racial divide of a country, religion, friends and even two star-crossed lovers."If there had been the slightest suggestion of kindliness, the least indication of a willingness to believe the best of Quebec in such men as this from Ontario, Canada’s trenchant problem would cease to exist.” Throughout the novel there is a constant disparity: be it urban vs.
As Charles Taylor in his book Reconciling the Solitudes: Essays on Canadian Federalism and Nationalism, put it:The “two solitudes” of Hugh MacLennan are still a fundamental reality in Canada; the ways that the two groups envisage their predicament, their problems, and their common country are so different that it is hard to find a common language.
Impressively depicting the time in Canada's history when, like the teenager it was between the end of the First World War and the start of the second, it found itself; realizing it's not just French and not just English but, like the main character, Paul Tallard, a mix, an individual unto itself.
Unlike anything else I've read, this novel initially told through the eyes of the French Canadian, Athanase Tallard and the very English, Huntley McQueen, highlighted for me the extent of the Two Solitudes that existed in this country at the time and how unlike a cohesive country it was.
Having grown up in Western Canada, I have never fully understood the tension between Anglophone and Francophone Canadians.
The title of this book goes beyond exploring tension between the English and French people.
It delves into the two solitudes that exist between generations, countries, gender, and political beliefs.From the very start of this novel, it is clear that MacLennan held great love for Canada.
Overall, I enjoyed this book and learned a lot about Canada.
I also loved the character development and how MacLennan wrote about the inner struggles of each person.
"Two Solitudes" is an excellent novel about Canadian culture, history, and modernity against the backdrop of the two world wars.
Its opening and closing passages about the landscape and the country on the eve of WWII are beautiful and moving - about the "embrace" of the Ottawa River and St. Lawrence River around the pan of Montreal Island, and about the itinerant men of the north who "faded into the army" in 1939.Sometimes the reflections on Canadian politics and identity feel a bit on the nose, but it works.
The story about an old French Canadian family and culture is arresting and almost epic.
I read this many years ago and loved it.
Its highly sentimental, if I remember correctly.
There is one thing I vividly remember, one of the characters' father is dying, and its said that even though he renounced his Catholicism many years before, he will still die with "the candles in his hands".
This had a personal resonance having a parent who was born a catholic but left her Catholicism and became an active faithful protestant.
It resonated enough for me to ask if that was what we could expect at their death.
The answer: no!
An interesting conversation though.
A story about growing up in between two cultures, two languages, two religions and two traditions in Canada in the first part of the 20th century.
Without any fanfare, the author manages to describe a world in a very believable manner.
Lots of obnoxious characters, it is kinda hard to like anyone in this book safe for Captain Yardley.
But I thoroughly enjoyed this.
It is hard not to draw parallels to Finland and a similar situation with the Finnish and Swedish speaking communities.
The world is so small, you know.
We are so similar, no matter how far apart we are.
I read this again because I want to know about some of the books in Canada Reads this season.
I didn't really like any of the characters and I found the Solitudes to be stereotyped for the 21st century.A lot of the description is of physical characteristics of individuals, which I found really boring.
The descriptions of Montreal and other parts of Quebec and Canada as a whole seemed to be there, not to provide beauty, but to point out how much the author knew.
The exception was when he described an episode of Paul playing hockey outdoors - that was the essence of Canada in winter.
This book would get 2.5 stars if I could.
I can understand that it is an important read for Canadians because it describes the lives of the "maudits anglais" and "bloody french" in and around Montreal between 1917 and 1939.
This was a time of great change for Canada and the people living in this interface area.
If Canada Reads was only for learning more about Canada, this would be my pick but as it is for the best book, this one falls into third place.
My order for Canada Reads is: Indian Horse, Away, Two Solitudes, Age of Hope, February.
Two Solitudes won the Governor General's award in 1945 and is still an excellent, worthwhile read. It provides insights into the two founding cultures which make up Canada - the Protestant English and the Catholic Quebecois - and how they struggled to maintain their own heritage while learning to accept each other's. As a newcomer to Canada in 1970 I learned first hand of the animosity between the two cultures while I lived in Ottawa during the FLQ October Crisis. Hugh MacLennan's book has given me a greater understanding of our differences and our common ground.
I enjoyed the many dichotomies in this story: English and French, war and peace, city and country, man and woman. It didn't leave me feeling changed or mind blown in any way, but it was an enjoyable read and I loved the author's ability to describe the landscape near the St. Lawrence so beautifully. It's like you could smell the fall leaves, feel the cold wind and bask in the spring sunshine. Transported through poetry!
Slow moving, but beautiful writing and scenery. The notions of French-English relations, parent-child relations, and urban-rural relations are each never given a front seat in the text. Rather, like life, these drive the smaller choices made by each character from the backseat, refusing to be isolated and analyzed individually.
The ultimate slow burn, I didn't really like this book until the second half and didn't love it till the last 100 pages. As someone born in Quebec, raised in Ontario, but lived my university years in Montreal, this book was very meaningful to me, and the characters in the second half quite compelling.
I thought this was a great book......it was interesting to read about the Quebec of old where there were still the fights between french Quebec and the English Quebec. I'd recomend it to anyone that likes this kind of reading.
A must read for all Canadians. Two Solitudes shows the divisions in Canada in all aspects; not just between the French and English. I really liked the characters in the book and the landscape descriptions.
A novel of great form that could be from anywhere but now knowing our own cultural history, it re-reads more like a history essay. Sadly, its sort of of a spoiler review really and discredits the magnitude of an original intelligent classic story even if Canadian brilliance.
