https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46066.Winter_of_Artifice
"Stella", is a heartbreakingly lovely portrait of the actress Luise Rainer, who was a very close friend of Nin's, a stunning artist who was incredibly uneasy with her stardom.
She was not only jealous of a more beautiful woman, but of a free woman."And this is the image that will always haunt me:"Once when Stella was on the stage acting a love scene, which was taking place after a scene in a snowstorm, one of the flakes of artificial snow remained on the wing of her small and delicate nose….
Splendiferous! Once again I'm enthralled by Anais Nin's writing. It's quite interesting that I don't really like any of the characters in this book (a couple are pretty awful) yet all three stories in this novella were brilliant. I especially liked the second story (Winter of Artifice). Great in-depth look into the psychological side of seriously-flawed relationships, and beautiful and poetic language,as usual. Definitely worth re-reading.
Whoa! I have been recommended to read Anaïs Nin for a very long time but have kept postponing it until a few days ago - and now not only do I regret this postponement, but I am utterly hooked on her! What a woman, and what a great writer!
Rather than being swept away in the current of the story, the reader literally drowns in the author’s attempt to prove herself linguistically adept.
Instead of sounding fresh, new, and intellectual, the writing comes off as the incessant, melodramatic drivel of an insecure woman who is trying to prove herself amid the company of those who consider themselves great “thinkers” of their day.
Nin simply strains too much and seems as though she was desperately writing with a thesaurus at hand.
A good work of fiction engrosses the reader, makes him or her invest in the stories and care about the characters.
Winter of Artifice by Anais Nin is a set of three novelettes that explore relationships between woman and lover, woman and father, and patient and therapist. Nin writes eloquently in her stories and goes deep into the intricacies of the imperfections of relationships. The beauty of her language balances the often negative nature of the stories themselves. The prose used in the three stories give each story a haunting and unearthly quality, while exposing some of the deep seeded realities of human nature.
Mostly consisting of the very psychoanalytic interior monologues, these stories are best when narrative takes a back seat for pure poetry. Though nothing much happens, the lace-like intricacy of the language is to be admired, as well as the crystaline disentaglement of the murky relationships between human psyches. Very sensual and decadent, Nin is an aesthete's dream.
I think Winter is Anais Nin's most evokative and far-reaching work. Deeply psychological and exploratory of the trenches that love and intimacy can carve with either a delicate sculptor's hand or butcher's two left thumbs. There are three novelettes here. Each story interconnected to the three women artists dealing with the layers of damage.
Och problemet är kanske den där slöjan mellan, att om novellerna skrivits ur ett genuint jagperspektiv, med den ärlighet som finns i dagböckerna, så skulle det ha känts mer.
Det finns en stark poetisk och psykologisk drivkraft i Anaïs Nins berättelser, ochjag känner likheter med mitt eget sätt att skriva (och jag har också beskyllts för att inte gestalta!) och kanske påverkar tiden, men det är ändå ett element jag saknat i min läsning.
A part of that can be attributed to the time differences since many of those names, including Nin’s, wrote in different eras whose literary vogues differed drastically from now; yet for me, it was the overall content was the rub of being nonplussed.
Despite their colourful carnalities, they’re impossible to relate to; which becomes painfully clear each time I revisit these works or explore those I haven’t read already.
I resolved to read this book as I strive to cover Nin’s publications in their entirety, but I wouldn’t recommend this collection overall.
In the second story, "Winter of Artifice" the whole plot centers around the unnamed woman narrator and her damaged, obsessive relationship with her father.
Several common themes rotate with each of her stories, women's emotional sensuality being one of them and the acceptance of change as a renewal not a challenge.
"there are beings who come to one to the tune of music" The almost rhythmic, prose like quality of her writing has a musical, chant like feel to them, especially when she dissolves into less of a story telling and more a poetic stream of conscienceless.
"She is lost herself. All that she says about herself is false. She is misleading and misled. No one will admit blindness. No one who does not have a white cane, or a seeing eye dog will admit blindness. Yet there is no blindness or deafness as strong as that which takes place within the emotional self."
This was very dense and very visceral. It had its moments, but it is hindered by bad writing and lumbering, rambling prose. The first of the three novelettes was torture. The following two teetered between uncomfortable and boring.
Such a beautiful and brave book
Clunky. Rambles. DNF.
Nin writes in a repetitive way that gets on my nerves, she's probably the most neurotic writer in existence.
The airiness of the writing is too insubstantial and as a whole, I found it unsatisfying.
Two cut & pastes: - That was her fear, seeing duplicates of the people who had filled her early world.- She was losing her faith in all interpretations, since she saw how they could be manipulated to conceal the truth.
She began to feel the illusory quality of all man's interpretations, and to believe only in her feelings.
I agree with Nin herself that the Diary is probably where she perfected her writing.
I'm glad I have read much of her Diaries before reading this, as it is very much autobiographical in nature, although characters in the stories get combined with different years of her life.
Without having read the Diaries, I may have had a hard time discerning the relationship between Nin and her father in the title story; she was very careful to craft it that way and did a good job.
One thing I like about NIn's fiction versus her non is the careful crafting of sentences, not to say she doesn't do that in the Diaries, it just reads different.
This thin tome contains three novelettes: Stella, The Winter of Artifice and The Voice. It isn't a surprise that the collection is named after the second novelette - an exploration of a (creeptasctic) father-daughter relationship, The Winter of Artifice is definitely the star of the show. The other two novelettes have their moments of brilliance, but those are mostly drowned out by - for lack of a better term - word vomit.
Oh my, I'm struggling with this book! The first story is forgettable - inner monologue of an actress who can't find her real self. the second, title story is interesting but yet again, telling not showing the psychological issues of a young woman abandoned by her father. all seems to be thinly veiled autobiography
I was unfortunately unable to even finish this. Utterly poorly written, rambling, self-absorbed and self-aggrandizing. (He said, she said, she wanted, she desired....it just goes on and on, without pauses even to breathe.) Maybe I'll return to it and try again at a later date, but not in a long while.
I was fascinated by Nin's writing when I first discovered this book. I read it again and again, devouring each sentence and impatient for the next. Her use of the language is provocative and delicious.
Some parts are great, others bad.
At times a brilliant piece of work, but not sustained throughout.
Three stories of basicly monologue that all bleed into each other about her daddy issues.
The title novella, "Winter of Artifice", is what makes this book worth reading.
Surprisingly well written, the female characters in particular drew me in. I would highly recommend this read.
