https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139871.Meditations_in_an_Emergency
In the second season of Madmen, Don Draper, awash in the chaos of his own identity, recites these lines from "Mayakovsky," the last poem in this book:Now I am quietly waiting forthe catastrophe of my personalityto seem beautiful again,and interesting, and modern.Frank O'Hara's poetry does not have to wait--quietly or otherwise.
And, sixty years later, it still seems modern too.Most 20th Century verse lovers, if asked what midcentury poet inherited the legacy of Whitman, would pick Allen Ginsberg, the iconic embodiment of the Beats.
Ever attentive to the rhythms of everyday speech, O'Hara bounces amongst disparate topics and tones in the short poems of his first collection: an elegy for James Dean follows a playful address to a recent ex-lover, a meditation on heartbreak precedes a zany tale about discovering a friend's corpse. The collection often messes up emotional clarity in ways that would border on the unsettling, were the poems not so fast paced and filled with humor. Favorites included "Poem (The eager note on my door)," "Chez Jane," and "Meditations in an Emergency."
Modern poetry is for advanced people.
there's blood on my chest/oh yes, I've been carrying bricks/what a funny place to rupture!/and now it is raining on the ailanthus/as I step out onto the window ledge/the tracks are smoky and/glistening with a passion for running/I leap into leaves, green like the sea." See what I mean?
They'll probably say the line, "Now I am quietly waiting for/the catastrophe of my personality/to seem beautiful again, and interesting and modern." Don't let these non-advanced posers fool you.
They're really fans of the show Mad Men. Don Draper reads these lines from the last poem in the collection.
I don't read poetry too terribly often, and the primary reason I even KNEW of this particular book was from the show Mad Men. So sue me.
I'd bet most people who've recently read it have the same exact reason.AnywayEach poem has a particular flare of pure 1960's energy.
Scott Fitzgerald.Unfortunately, I have no deep or interesting thoughts to offer about this collection.
I would suggest it to anyone who I knew was interested in poetry - but, as I said, I can't help but feel like something is lost on me, not being a child of the times.
My favorite work in the book is “For James Dean”, an ode to Hollywood’s sadism (and don’t think Hollywood isn’t us).
As he says in "River", we need only to “sink back upon that brutal tenderness that bore me on, that held me like a slave… upon the open flesh of the world.” Also in Sleeping on the Wing:And, swooping,you relinquish all that you have made your own,the kingdom of your self sailing, for you must awakeand breathe your warmth in this beloved imagewhether it’s dead or merely disappearing,as space is disappearing and your singularity.The final and best work in the book is "Mayakovsky", another ode but one with more self-reflection than tribute.
O’Hara is New York. Intelectually charged, ecstatic, manifold, important, tiring, but never tired.Frank, help me out: “I am mainly preoccupied with the world as I experience it, and at times when I would rather be dead the thought that I could never write another poem has so far stopped me.”
Very good, though I’m still more partial to Lunch Poems.
- Meditations in an EmergencyThe collection is dedicated to someone named Jane, to whom many of the poems seem to be addressed.
In all likelihood, she is painter Jane Freilicher, with whom Frank O'Hara was close friends.The reader might also wonder why several of the poems are simply titled "Poem".
There are aspects of the poem "Jane Awake" that remind me of Bob Dylan lyrics...your volcanic flesh hides everything from the watchman, and the tendrils of dreams strangle policemen running by too slowly to escape you, the racing vertiginous waves of your murmuring need.
There are exactly 115 exclamation points in this collection (114 if you don't count an epigraph). Here are all of them:!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
"Why should I share you? Why don't you get rid of someone else for a change?"I am the least difficult of men. All I want is boundless love."How can you not, at the very least, give an extra moment's pause to enjoy the beauty and raw emotion of those lines?
O Hara's style is intimate yet universal, pathos in the everyday ordinary, particular, sentimental yet aloof. His poetry is modern, very modern, in the best way, filled with beautiful contradictions and a generous helping of mirth.
There is a geography which holds its hands just so far from the breast and pushes you away, crying so.
He steps into the mirror, refusing to be anyone else, and his guests observe the waves break...
those were intricate days....paddling up and down the Essequibo in our canoe of war surplus gondola parts......a bundle of armayllis quite artifically tied.
an eagerness for the historical look of the mirror.I can't even enjoy a blade of grass unless I know there's a subway handy..
I will carry the image of the war-surplus gondola for a long time.
the Collected Works is very disorganized and inaccessible to newcomers and Selected Poems just doesn't have the flow of O'Hara's original publications, of which Meditations is certainly the finest.
O'Hara's signature pop culture lightness just cascades from page to page, even the more unassuming poems feed into others and the work as a whole.
and "Mayakovsky" is the greatest poem not written by Mayakovsky himself and thats just it.O'Hara is THE post-war American poet and is as a whole the most consistently excellent; always powerful and complex (contradictory hehe) while FUN(NY) AND CUTE AND ENDEARING...he's the closest thing to the perfect American poet except for his poor taste in art (AbEx bleck).
I hope you develop a similar attachment to Frank O'Hara and this collection.
O'Hara is an odd one.
One moment its "Mayakovsky", and O'Hara is so concrete and beautiful about this world.
They always pass me by.The next moment you get a poem from O'Hara.
The sun is talking to him, and the poem is flighty and weird.
Not a good time to be talking about an anthropomorphic sun.
This is an emergency, remember?I am unhappy.
When I was especially unhappy, I took a bus to the library, tried to read some Camus.
Fuck Camus and his stupid trench coat.There are no epiphanies in emergencies.
<------------------------This book-------------------------><-------------------------My head-------------------------->
I picked up Frank O'Hara's "Meditations in an Emergency." Due to the nature of bus riding, I prefer reading poetry, because it is the perfect medium for a public transportation ride.
O'Hara has been a long-time fave of mine, and oddly enough I never read this volume of poems by him.
But his poetry is both witty, profound and very observational on daily life.
His look at nature is both very common and uncommon, in that it conveys the mood of what is taking place.
His relationshilp with the visual artists comes through these poems.
A superb bus/bath/couch reading experience!
With the completion of Meditations in an Emergency, I have read both collections of poetry that Frank O'Hara had published during his lifetime. Compared to Lunch Poems, Meditations in an Emergency reflects in some ways a more formal style.My favorite poems in the collection were "To the Harbormaster", "Poem (The eager note on my door...)", "Meditations in an Emergency", and "Mayakovsky".His work is alternately funny and sad. Some poems are highly introspective while others are focused on the lives of celebrities. I enjoyed this work, though not as much as Lunch Poems.See this review on my blog at:http://lifeanepicpoem.blogspot.com/20...
your volcanic flesh hides  everything from the watchman,and the tendrils of dreams strangle policemen running bytoo slowly to escape you, the racing vertiginous wavesof your murmuring need.
I choose not to rate this book as I just didn't get it. One reviewer said that "modern poetry is for advanced people". I clearly am not an advanced person.
Love, love, love, love, love. Definitely a collection read and re-read and the leaves pass through seasons and as the seas shift sides and wash away, leaving behind these remnants of poetry.
Sometimes you just need to reread Frank.
J'essaie encore de décortiquer ce que j'aime, en poésie, mais je peux dire que ce recueil a été pas mal hit or miss pour moi.Dans les meilleurs passages, j'ai eu l'impression de tomber sur des morceaux très délicats de quelque chose de plus grand ; regarder dans le trou d'une serrure, peut-être, et être ébloui par le peu de lumière qui nous parvient.
À un moment donné, j'ai relu trois fois la même strophe, jusqu'à ce que je me résigne & que je me dise estie, ceci n'est qu'une série de mots qui ne veulent rien dire pour moi.
I am one of the many people who picked up this collection of poetry because Don Draper was reading it at a bar in Mad Men, in an episode named after it.
I have read through it a few times now and find myself drawn to certain passages and bored/untouched by others.
In the collection there is a poem, "For James Dean," and among the most gripping passages is from the poem "Mayakovsky," named for the Soviet poet/playwright - both who died young and tragically (which is ironically also true of O'Hara).
Let’s write long letters on grand themes, fish sandwiches, egg sandwiches and cheese; I eat a lot so I won’t get drunk and then I drink a lot so I’ll feel excited and then I’ve gone away I don’t know where or with whom and I can’t remember whom from except that I’m back with my paper bag and next time my face won’t come with me” “I am sobbing, walking on my heart..
I love you, but I’m turning to my versesand my heart is closing like a fist.
The surf was bland and white,/ as pine trees are white when,/ in Paradise, no wind is blowing.
This collections spills over with colorful stills of contemplation.
Ah be with me always, spirit of noisy/ contemplation in the studio, the Garden/ of Zoos, the eternally fixed afternoons!A work with an eye to explore the surroundings which lead to creation.Even trees understand me!
I'm just like a pile of leaves.Creating the scene, O'Hara creates a character.The most challenging part, to me, of this collection is understanding the structure of each poem.My favorite poems include "Mayakosky"; "Ode"; "For Grace, After a Party"; "River"; and "Les Etiquettes jaunes".
About 3/4 through reading this I put it down and didn't pick it back up again until last week for some reason. I found myself connecting more with it at this time and went back and re-read some of the earlier poems. I like his musical style, even if I remain "bad at poetry". I had planned to be reading a book of poetry every month or so this year, I'd like to try that again in 2018, though maybe every two months or so. Hopefully I can keep on myself about it.
I found some of the poems a little intense to read late at night, but I absolutely loved "Meditations in an Emergency" and a few of the later pieces in my edition. "Mayakovksy" was also the reason why I bought the collection in the first place. To me, the sign of a great poem is not struggling over it, but rather feeling completely drawn in by words that seem nothing less than personal. Certainly a text I'll return to again and again.
A "Mad Men" read, straight from the bookshelves of Donald Draper. Not bad, though the collection is a bit front-loaded, with the best poem, To the Harbormaster, being the first. The collection also lost some zing for me when I stopped to read some poems by the relatively unknown Edgar Bowers. Bowers' poems are considerably better. It was like whipped cream vs. heavy fiber. Still, this is a collection worth reading.
It was invariably banned as we cycled through new variants of rough games that often ended in bloodied noses.) Debussy would have been proud (the memory makes me think of one of my favourite pieces - the "symphonic poem" Prélude à l'après-midi d'un faune).
All this from buying a book based on a cultural reference in Mad Men.But one thing that struck me while reading Meditations was what voice would the author use if he were to read his own poems?
mayakovsky is the one thing that keeps me from loathing/abhorring poetry in general.
