https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3507.Twelve_Sharp
Book Review  4 out of 5 stars to Twelve Sharp, the 12th book in the "Stephanie Plum" cozy mystery series written in 2006 by Janet Evanovich. I really enjoyed this book, given its focus on the mysterious Ranger. Stephanie is being stalked. She's not sure who it is, but the person is scary. She soon learns out this person has a connection to Ranger -- it's his ex-wife. At the same time, Ranger's daughter has been kidnapped, and someone suspects he's behind it all. But for what reason? As the boo
4 out of 5 stars to Twelve Sharp, the 12th book in the "Stephanie Plum" cozy mystery series written in 2006 by Janet Evanovich.
I really enjoyed this book, given its focus on the mysterious Ranger.
She soon learns out this person has a connection to Ranger -- it's his ex-wife.
As the book progresses, you learn how much Stephanie Plum is really torn up about Ranger, despite her feelings for Joe Morelli.
While the back and forth is starting to bug me (which man will she choose!), given Ranger is my favorite character, it was a strong book full of information and subtle vibes.
Lots of Ranger in one of these books always makes me give an extra star. He is dark, mysterious, alpha in a good way, and sexy AF. His looks get compared to Ricky Martin in this book and it was written in 2006. Here's Ricky in 2006:okay, I can work with that.So, in this book Stephanie is trying to help Ranger clear his name and is working as bait for the bad guy. She is on the phone with Morelli: "I was getting read to go to bed," Morelli said. "I don't suppose you want to join me?""That would b
Here's Ricky in 2006:okay, I can work with that.So, in this book Stephanie is trying to help Ranger clear his name and is working as bait for the bad guy.
"I don't suppose you want to join me?""That would be nice, but I have to stay here and hope there's an attempt made to kidnap me.""Other men have girlfriends with safe normal jobs," Morelli said.
Hmmm, so Morelli considers Stephanie his girlfriend?
And yet, Stephanie is often kissing Ranger.
Because, Stephanie and Ranger cross a line in this book that has them naked in her bed while Morelli is knocking on the door.
I did look at the clock several times and contemplated going to sleep but sleep was not nearly as compelling as finishing the book.Sometimes, series tend to get old and the characters stale.
Along the way, we have the expected, and entertaining, funeral home stories, Lulu and Grandma shenanigans, less than stellar skip captures and we learn more about Ranger.Hmmmmm, Ranger.Evanovich does a great job of balancing the humor (lots of stun gunning (trust me, it's funny), Stephanie falling down, Stephanie getting tackled, Lulu busting out of her clothes, etc.) with a mystery that has a very menacing feel about it.
I’ve read all of the Stephanie Plum series, and I enjoy the formula, the humor, and the zany family (Grandma Mazur’s passion for funeral viewings is hysterically the opposite of the revulsion most of us have for such events.) I sooo empathize with Stephanie’s father who is just trying to hold it together in the presence of Grandma Mazur, who, having shot the Thanksgiving turkey with a .45 in a previous book, has now joined Lula’s band as a singer visiting retirement homes.
Several of the one-star reviewers on Amazon complained that Stephanie was immoral and needs to stop sleeping with both Ranger and Morelli.
At first I was pretty disappointed in Twelve Sharp because it wasn't hilarious.
All of the other Stephanie Plum novels were super funny.
Stephanie used some of her Bounty Hunter woman power.
3. Stephanie tells a certain someone she LOVES him, not just l-l-likes him ; )4.
An important character gets severly hurt, which usually never happens.
Tons of people have died in previous books, but usually the main characters get away pretty well off.
Which in't to say I was happy about that person hurt, it just made the story a whole lot better.
Stephanie Plum is up to her usual tricks, when Ranger all but disappears.There's a missing child, and a lot more dead bodies than usual piling up. It turns out Ranger has a doppelganger who want to take his place.Not bad, does make me glad I don't live in New Jersey.
It has it all, tension filled romance, yummy and hilarious side characters that are every bit as hilarious as they are swoon worthy, action, humor, and most of all, it is just freaking fun and one I turn to time and time again.While this twelve installment is just as funny, just as good as all the others, it is also a little more serious than what we are use to but in a really good way.
If you haven't tried this series yet and need a lighter but still mystery filled, action packed, humor ridden, heart pounding good time, try this series.
What can I say? Steph, love ya, Babe. (See? Not so hard to say.) Did have a bit of a start with Mrs. Ranger. But, we knew something was off. Great book, as always. One of my favorite writers ever!Re-read...again. Still lovin' it. May, 2016Reread May 2018—In this book we find out more about Ranger. Makes even cooler! Steph is becoming a better bounty hunter and finally admits she loves Morelli...and Ranger.💕🤷🏼♀
What can I say? Steph, love ya, Babe. (See? Not so hard to say.) Did have a bit of a start with Mrs. Ranger. But, we knew something was off. Great book, as always. One of my favorite writers ever!Re-read...again. Still lovin' it. May, 2016Reread May 2018—In this book we find out more about Ranger. Makes even cooler! Steph is becoming a better bounty hunter and finally admits she loves Morelli...and Ranger.💕🤷🏼‍♀️
12 is a wonderful balance of humor and tension, with a determinedly different plotline.
I don't know how she does it, but Evanovich keeps this series fresh and entertaining with every addition.I'll admit, I'm getting a bit tired of the Ranger-or-Joe debate.
Mostly because I've never been a girl who loves the bad boys, so the attraction of bad-boy-Ranger does not entice - for me, it really isn't a question.
Because I'm tiring of the "who will she pick?" thrill, the ending nearly drove me CRAZY!
If, however, you find it to be a climatic sexual tension, your addiction will be pleasantly fed.
:: 4.5 Smokin Stars :: As with any Evanovich novel I was hooked from page 1 all the way until the end.
I can never get enough of Stephanie Plum, Grandma Mazur, and Lula.
Once again, this book is jam packed with laughs, fun, and gun yielding woman (amongst other crazies).
Readers cannot get enough of Stephanie’s eccentric family; specifically, grandma Mazur trying to open the closed casket on her favorite night of the week- funeral viewings.
These reads are meant to be light and fun.
Some also ask whether the lack of character development in Stephanie gets annoying?
I am sure you will get just as hooked as I was!
Again, I have only chosen one of the Janet Evanovich/Stephanie Plum mysteries to put here so as not to clog the shelf with all of her stuff.
If you want to read some funny shit with fantastic characters and totally outrageous scenarios that only get crazier, check out Janet Evanovich.
Her main character, Stephanie Plum, is an incompetent bounty hunter who is constantly being stalked, getting all kinds of nasty things in her hair, and having her car blown up.
She is caught between two men: the ever-sexy Ranger, professional bounty hunter and total badass, and Joe Morelli, also unbelievably sexy, a cop, and more interested in a long-term relationship.
I highly recommend going back to the beginning of this series and starting there.
I stumbled upon the stephanie plum novels halfway thru the series and wish I had found it sooner.
Each addition to the series is a treat....sarcastic witty humor...a heroine that can bumble around and eat consolation donuts but still look herself in the eye in the mirror and kiss hunky mysterious guys when she and her boyfriend are on the outs.
LOVE this series....Long story short, girl works as bounty hunter to bring home the bacon for herself and her hamster....but barely pays the bills and gets shot at a lot.
And her car generally only makes it thru one or two books before getting blown up.
This did not disappoint. The tension between Stephanie, Joe, and Ranger is better than ever.
Vinnie has overextended the business by handing out bonds willy-nilly and is now putting the pressure on everyone in the office to recoup some money.
When a woman claiming to be Ranger's wife confronts Stephanie, gun in hand, things start getting a little crazy.
When Ranger hits the television news, crazy turns to Serious Business.
Now Stephanie is working her buns off trying to keep the business open, dragged into the middle of a Ranger-mess, and has picked up a stalker along the way.
Stephanie is once again wrestling her feelings for two men and while nothing really progresses on that front, it sure is fun.
Hilarious, A Little Dark & Refreshing!!! Still Loving It!!!
This is my best thriller book ever.The story is about a Stephanie Plum a bounty hunter, she works with Ranger a hot Caucasian guy sometimes, they had a fling once and they are still attracted to each other, but she's currently dating her on and off boyfriend Morelli since high school.She was working one day when one woman approached her and told her she was ranger's wife, and that they married six months ago, that he left her last week, so she's guessing he'll be with her since she taught they were having an affair, Stephanie told her it happened once a long time ago but the woman din't believe her.
Just like reading the complete works of Dickens, I am working my way through the epistles of Mistress Evanovich whose tomes cover a panoply of colorful characters in ye merry old New Jersey.
I bought the complete works of Nathaniel Hawthorne at a flea market once and decided, since I then owned it, should read it.
Once, I read everything I could find written by Thomas Hardy (I was a strange kid).
As long as Morelli keeps the Plum orgasms coming (ooh, I’m sorry) and Bob the Dog keep regurgitating like the author, I guess I can keep going on this series.
First, I’ll admit a personal weakness: I actually laughed several times when reading one of the Stephanie Plum books last year.
But that was last year, and a couple Stephanie Plum books ago.
I too can write could write a Stephanie Plum book!
Another fun scenario: since (annoying) Stephanie Plum can’t choose between the two men in her life, Joe Morelli, the nice policeman, and Ranger, the dangerous bounty hunter (yawn!), they somehow all move in together (due to usual apartment explosion), and trouble ensues…or not!
Ranger and Morelli find out they like each other, and dump (annoying) Stephanie Plum.
4,5 ☆Timing parfait !* review soon *
as a result of this insomnia I wasn't up to anything super intellectual at 4 AM so I thought I'd try the book my mom got for free at her company picnic in July.Obviously I wasn't thinking properly, period.I saw how bad this book was by page two (gratuitous descriptions of characters?
:)There were some interesting characters, such as Lula the former "'ho" (her spelling, not min) and the other employees of the bond agency were main character, Stephanie Plum, works, but the tantalizing men in her life?
This is a hard book to rate. I disliked the beginning and almost quit reading it. There was too much sleaze and foul language for my taste. I am very glad that I kept reading because the actual mystery and its effect on the regular characters was great, one of the best, if not the best in the series so far. Added bonus: the almost obligatory hilarious dinner scene at the Plum residence will be hard to top in future books.
I refuse to apologize for loving these books :-) Still fun, popcorn entertainment
Loved it.
The 12th book in the Stephanie Plum series and I still find it pretty entertaining.
And I still really enjoy the first handful of books in this series - they're actual crime novels with occasional humorous moments to lighten the mood.
And when you add in the ridiculousness of the between the numbers novellas, I've basically been on the verge of giving up on rereading these books for a really long time.
But I own the series through book 16, and I thought I needed to give them the benefit of the doubt.
And that something was this:Not that long ago I needed a safe place to stay and sort of commandeered Ranger's apartment when he was out of town.
Security expert and bounty hunter Ranger is used to catching wanted people, but now he's the one who is wanted.
His friend, bounty hunter Stephanie Plum, has her own problems.
Evanovich adds a new character, Melvin Pickle, who brings a lot of fun to the book.
There are plenty of laugh out loud moments, especially when Connie, Lula, and Stephanie interview potential bounty hunters.
Evanovich wisely ditches some of the tired plot lines such as Stephanie's car always being blown up and breathes new life into other plot lines - especially an incredibly funny scene during a wake.
It’s the usual frolicking adventure, with Grandma Mazur teaming up with Lulu and Sally to start a new singing act, and with Joe coming dangerously close to discovering that Ranger is hiding out in Stephanie’s bedroom while they all try to find the fellow who is posing as Ranger, along with Stephanie getting involved with the various weird assortment of FTAs (Failed To Appear bondees)
These books still make me laugh out loud, and I am enjoying them, but I am really getting annoyed with both Stephanie and Ranger.
I mean, seriously!
**** Possible Spoilers...*****And, I know Stephanie is to blame here too, but I am really getting annoyed with Ranger, and the fact that he never seems to care that Stephanie is dating Joe. Ranger made is clear he only wants to sleep with her, but she has a good thing with Joe, and sleeping with Ranger would definitely mess that up.
Again, Stephanie needs more backbone, but seriously...
However, I had some real issues with some things that happened in this series so couldn't rate it higher than 3 stars.
My major issue though was with Ranger getting into Stephanie's bed without her permission after he said he wouldn't and him also stating at another point in the book that he would be fine with 'partial consent'.
(hide spoiler)]I really didn't like that Evanovich teases us with the possibility of the love triangle being resolved in this book and then it just not happening.
After 12 books I think it's time to put this love triangle to bed...
A crazy woman is looking for Stephanie Plum, Ms. Bounty Hunter and every auto insurance company's nightmare.
When they come face to face, the woman pulls a gun on Steph and tells her she is looking for her husband Ranger.
And the next time Stephanie sees him, he's on the news.
Another entertaining Plum novel.
Lula recruits Grandma Mazur for the band she just joined; Connie is interviewing bounty hunters from hell; Tank feels the love; and a pervy Pickle joins the company.
Oh, and there's a very close call in the Plum bedroom!
