https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97643.A_Tree_Is_Nice
This is and Ode to Trees or a Love letter to trees.
The simplicity is simply, look how wonderful trees are.
It really is a lovely book about trees.
This was decades before the environmental movement - simply someone who had an appreciation for trees.
I love trees.
This book touched me deeply.
It is not comprehensive, but it for a kid to develop an appreciation for trees.
I Love this little book.
This must have been a 50s publishing style to keep costs down as I see it more in these older books.
The kids thought it was ok.
Reread just cuz.
And here's my old review:"I'm not sure a child would pick it up herself...
I recall this being on a shelf somewhere when I was a child, but I don't recall reading it.But if a parent or teacher shares the book with a child, I think it'd still be very relevant.
The kids, their homes, even their activities don't seem dated to me.
There's even a true tomboy, a girl dressed up like a pirate, in one tree.I think it'd be great to have kids do a writing exercise inspired by this.
Perhaps rather parochially my favourite tree in the whole world is an oak tree aged a few hundred years that lives at the entrance to my daughter's property.
And I have always had an interest in trees from a young age, particularly from my teenage years when my wife to be and myself used to picnic at Kew Gardens in London.So when I saw 'A Tree Is Nice' I just had to own it!
The illustrations by Marc Simont are particularly fetching and the story, while simplicity itself, gives a great understanding of what role a tree has in everyday life.As a forest, they 'fill up the sky', they live besides rivers and in valleys, even just one tree is nice because, '...
I thought A Tree Is Nice was...
nice.
It's a simple, gentle little book showing various types of trees and the ways in which they enrich our lives (for example, apple trees give apples, big trees can be fun for climbing, or give shade).
At the end, readers are encouraged to plant a tree.
It's a "green" book before that sort of thing was in vogue.
Simont's illustrations, while not enough to get me overly enthusiastic, pair very well with the simple text.
It's nice to see a variety of trees portrayed and I felt each scene evoked a different feeling and way to appreciate that particular tree.
Not only do I love the wonderful shades of green and the fall foliage that fill this book, but I appreciate its message reminding readers of the wonders of trees.
The gentle reminder to plant a tree so you can watch it grow is a positive message.
This is another Caldecott title I remember reading when I was young, and upon finishing, asking my father to let me plant a tree.
Certainly, by the time anyone finishes the book, he/she realizes that a tree is so much more than the understated "nice" (unpaged).
1957 Caldecott Medal Winner3.5 Stars
When I first laid eyes on A Tree Is Nice by Janice May Udry I immediately thought about my favorite childhood book called The Giving Tree my link text by Shel Silverstein.
There is something sweet and comforting about trees, the way they sway and bend in the wind, the shade they provide, and the beauty they create.
One of my favorite lines is, “The leaves whisper in the breeze all summer long.” What could’ve been a boring sentence about why leaves on a tree were important came to life through the use of personification and care.
By the end of the book the narrator tells us it is fun to plant trees and watch them grow over the years.
Another benefit mentioned is you get to tell people "I planted that tree!" and that inspires them to plant one too!
It might inspire children to want to plant trees too.
4. I think all students would benefit from this book.
But an individual student who enjoys nature and plants would really like this book.
6. I think this book would be great for a read aloud book.
I think the students would enjoy it, and it has nice pictures.
Some of the uses of a tree are important (it “keeps the wind from blowing the roof off the house sometimes”) while others aren’t as vital (“It is a good place to lean your hoe while you rest”).Half of the pages in this book are illustrated in color and the others are done in black and white.
The tree is the main focus of each picture, showing that trees are the most important part of the story.Although this book was awarded the Caldecott Medal, I wasn’t that impressed with it.
The pictures are nice and could tell the story on their own, and since the book was published in 1956, I can see how the illustrations were impressive at that time.
*Book summary-This is a fun story that explains the purpose and usefulness of trees.
Trees are fun and useful for everyone including animals.
*Caldecott Medal*Grade level, interest level, Lexile -K-2*Appropriate classroom use (subject area) -Teaching about recycling or the environment.*Individual students who might benefit from reading -Students that are interested in the outdoors will enjoy reading this book.*Small group use (literature circles) -Have students brain storm more ways a tree can be useful.
For example, put a swing on a tree.
The author personifies the little island in the ocean, like the tree in this book.
New York, NY: Harper Collins.A Tree is Nice is a wonderful picture book that deals with trees and nature.
Although many people don’t realize the importance of trees, the story describes several ways trees can be used.
If you’re into the great outdoors you will like the illustrations in the book because they set you in the perfect natural environment.
As you glance at each page you eventually realize that a tree can serve for a lot of purposes besides taking up space.
This book is great for young elementary students interested in books about nature.
It explores the themes of nature and purposes trees serve to people.
A Tree Is Nice by Janice May Udry, illustrated by Marc Simont is an early pean to nature and environmentalism.
It was awarded the Caldecott Medal in 1957.In simple prose, Udry gives funny, odd and true reasons why trees are nice.
It has a child-based logic that works well.The illustrations alternate btween color, and black and white.
The paintings have a simple child-like quality that is quite appealling.
My favorite black and white illustration is the one with all the children in the tree.For ages 3 to 6 trees, conservation, planting, environment, children themes, and fans of Janice May Udry and Marc Simont.
I have always had a deep reverence for trees.
I might never have made it through The Lord of the Rings trilogy if it hadn't been for the trees.
Her title fairly well sums up the truth about trees.
After providing dozens of reasons why a tree is nice, the book ends with how to plant a tree and some encouraging words about the fun of watching it grow "every day for years and YEARS...You say to people, 'I planted a tree.' They wish they had one so they go home and plant a tree too."
Janice May Udry points out the benefits and beauty of a tree as she tells tales that many children and adults can relate to.
Any person can relate to their "connections to trees" in this story.
She connects both people and animals to the reasons "A Tree is Nice".
It gave light to the fact that it's the thought of trees that is so nice, not just the colored, vivid pictures that makes them beauteous.
A great story on how something so simple as a tree can play a bigger part in our lives than we may have thought.
Well, trees are nice everyone.
I guess I learned that trees are good.
I also learned that anyone can write just about anything any old way and if they're lucky, they'll win an award.
I learned it has nothing - absolutely nothing - to do with the actual story.
I think I'll write a book too.
I've finally decided.
It's going to be about poop.
Yes, that's right.
Poop.
How poop is stinky, how it's made, how it's delivered, the different colors of poop, the non-glory of all things poopy, all those not-so-great things about poop.
I'll probably win an award somewhere along the line.
This was a disappointing read with my daughter today.
Living in the Pacific Northwest, I am a huge fan of trees, so I had huge hopes for this book.
However, the story was severely lacking.
The sentence structure and word choice was awkward to read out loud.
The only trees discussed were deciduous trees, which are not as prevalent in our part of the country, so we couldn't relate to a good portion of the book.
Perhaps if we lived on the east coast I would feel differently, but it was still an awkward read that didn't capture my daughter's attention.
This book is essentially a list of reasons that trees are nice. That doesn't sound very effective, but I thought the book was wonderful! The illustrations are so cute and the reasons that a tree is nice actually sound like reasons a kid would come up with. I finished the book and thought, "You know what? A tree IS nice!" and then I missed summer even more than I already do. Sigh.Anyway. This is cute. Check it out.
Who can argue with the title of this book? Not me! I love this Caldecott winner with its fun pictures kids jumping into piles of leaves, cats escaping from dogs into trees, and of a tree swarming with kids, doing everything from playing pirate to taking a nap. I love this book's simplicity and quiet humor.
I love trees, and that is all that this book is about. Literally, trees are nice, and all the reasons they are nice. I fully agree with all of the reasons and I love the pictures of kids and the trees, under them, on them, sleeping in the shade. I prefer the color pictures over the black and white, but, it was 1956... so hey.
As a hater of the word "nice" I welcome this slim simple volume as a way to show children how to elaborate to add real meaning to that oft-overused word. Why is a tree "nice"? Udry gives dozens of reasons, and Simont's accompanying watercolors have a clean natural look to fit the topic.
"Trees are very nice. They fill up the sky." By the end of the book, you have a deeper gratitude for trees, and how they make life magical. Perfect book to share with a child. Or for an adult to enjoy too like a poem.
A long list of things that trees are good for. I had to read it after reading about it so much in Dear Genius: The Letters of Ursula Nordstrom.
Not sure why, but I'm in love with this book. Took me back to my childhood.
This timeless classic is a love letter to trees. A lovely picture book to include in preschool nature units.
A sweet story, particularly for 4 years and younger, although we all enjoyed the simple story.
The light background and bold tree colors contrast in a way that allows the tress to stand out since they are the most important part of the story.
Something to note about this book is how every other time you turn the page, it consists of color, while the alternating every other page is solely black and white.
On the black and white parts of the book, I was allowed to fill in my own interpretations of the colors in the lines.
Another important aspect of the book itself is the size and shape of it.
One example that the book provides is how the leaves of trees provide us shade when it is hot outside.
The illustrations are beautiful and alternate between being in color and being in black and white.
While I do not really understand why the illustrator chooses to do this, it does make the colored illustrations stand out.
This book would be useful when teaching about seasons.
Specifically, this book would be useful when teaching the seasons and the components of seasons to preschool, kindergarten, or first grade students.
It would also be a good book to read during a unit about trees because it showcases the many functions of trees.
1957 Caldecott Winner. This is a wonderfully simple story. I like the alternating color and black and white pages.
A charming little book about the loveliness of trees.Trees house birds and bats at night. Trees bear all kind juicy fruits. Trees are full of wisdom. We human passes on but trees like Time is old and wise. Keep the trees alive to keep us alive.
This is a wonderful book for a child to learn the essentials about trees, their seasons and their very nuts and bolts uses. I love the simple loose illustrations and the broad knowledge covered in so few words.
