https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/163166.The_Shape_of_Water
When a book is described as 'light,' there's usually a negative connotation to this adjective: by lightness what we mean is something along the lines of 'written without careful craft,' or sometimes, more simply, 'trivial.'It's difficult to describe The Shape of Water (or really, any of Camilleri's novels) without invoking this word, but in a sense far different from its usual usage.
The 'lightness' that pervades his books is more like that of an Olympic skater executing a triple axel: something incredibly sophisticated and difficult, performed in such a way as to appear effortless.
Ολοκληρωμένη κριτική εδώ.Σε αντίθεση με πολλούς από τους βιρτουόζους συγγραφείς του εγκλήματος στον Βορρά, ο Ιταλός Καμιλλέρι μετράει τις λέξεις του, διαλέγοντας προσεκτικά εκείνες που ενσταλάζουν πιο πηχτά το νόημα και φωτογραφίζουν διαυγέστερα το τοπίο, προτού η ανάγνωση διακοπεί από τη μεσημεριανή σιέστα ή τη δροσερή βουτιά.
Ο Καμιλλέρι συμβαδίζει με τον ρυθμό της Μεσογείου, γι’ αυτό και δεν αναζητούμε η υπόθεση να εκταθεί περαιτέρω—μας αρκεί ως έχει.Ακόμα κι όταν περιγράφει το πιο αρχετυπικό σκηνικό διαφθοράς, φόβου και παρακμής, ο Καμιλλέρι διατηρεί ένα άφταστο χιούμορ που διαλύει το σκοτάδι σαν λεπίδα και ευφραίνει κατευναστικά την ψυχή.
Ο επιθεωρητής Μονταλμπάνο ανήκει στους τύπους εκείνους, που η πρώτη επαφή μαζί τους, προμηνύει και υποβάλλει αναπόφευκτα και τις επόμενες.
You know how it is, you find the characters and scenery interesting, the story lines are good...
The TV detective is super-cool in that dark Italian way, his team are efficient and work well together.
His team are highly individualistic and almost inefficient (yet seem to get things done in a casual sort of way).
Camilleri's Montalbano is cool in a very different way.The landscape didn't come across for me, nor did the climate, yet there was something very relaxed about the whole thing, a hint of not rushing about in the heat...
And Montalbano is a bit like that with his detective work.
Inspector Montalbano is still an interesting character, and the plot was engaging till the end.
And as usual, the Italian food references make me drool.The story revolves about the Politician Silvio Luparello who's found dead at a trash site filled with drug dealers and prostitutes.
The post-mortem reveals that there was no foul play and the death was due to a heart attack.
So the Commissioner asks Inspector Montalbano to close the case since it's not unusual for a politician to be in such a place.
However, Montalbano senses that there's more to this death than it meets to the eye and demands two days before closing the case.
Review can now be seen at Expendable Mudge Muses Aloud.
I typically avoid crime novels but having spent several vacations during the last decade in south-eastern Sicily and having seen Montalbano's name ubiquitously every where I went, I figured I needed to see whether the enthusiasm was merited.
Inspector Montalbano is a very complex personality with a brilliant intellect and a collection of friends and acquaintances that are all quite realistic.
After you have read four or five of the books, perhaps the stories start to be less engaging, but the TV series that was made in Italy based on the books is INCREDIBLE and is worth the 2h for each episode that is needed.
I watch Inspector Montalbano on the BBC which I thoroughly enjoy and so decided that I had to purchase the first book in the series.Sicily to me is a magical island (forget about the Mafia for a moment) and the book definitely set the scene for the television series.
Inspector Salvo Montalbano, who’s streetwise, loves his food, a man who appears to have met the woman of his life, Livia, but as she lives in Genoa, and sees her infrequently, he gets up to tricks from time to time.
With skillful writing the plot gradually unravels and, well, it’s just a great book.
The mystery itself had me curious before I even started reading: "Silvio Lupanello, a big-shot in Vigata, is found dead in his car with his pants around his knees".
Inspector Salvo Montalbano, is Vigata's most respected detective.
He smokes, drinks, loves his food....( but baby octopus-- really?).....lol....his friends, women....and especially his girlfriend ( even with their problems).
actor played by Matt Passmore, reminds me a little of Inspector Salvo Montalbano...( for anyone in the states who have seen that show).
Matt is always eating....loves his girlfriend too....solves cases with 'ease'....
I haven't seen THIS TV series ..., but I can imagine the beauty of Sicily.
Ultimamente faccio fatica a stare dietro a quello che leggo e ad aggiornare voti e recensioni in tempo.Quindi, con qualche giorno di ritardo, la mio opinione sul mio primo Camilleri:il caso vero e proprio mi è piaciuto abbastanza ma quello che ho preferito è il modo di raccontare di Camilleri. Innanzitutto, ho apprezzato l'ironia che permea tutto il romanzo e si sente fin dall'inizio, poi, anche la lingua, che aiuta a creare l'atmosfera siciliana e che, nonostante contenga qualche parola che non conoscevo (non essendo io siciliana) è comprensibilissima.Insomma, primo Camilleri, ma non ultimo.
This delightful 1994 novel which introduced readers to Inspector Salvo Montalbano and the fictional town of Vigàta indoctrinates readers into the high comedy and characters of life in Sicily.
Camilleri's tongue in cheek take on the famously corrupt players occupying the highest echelons of government and politics and the ominous Mafioso influence offers an wry and humorous look at crime through the warmth of the honest Montalbano, not averse to playing god himself when the evidence needs massaging!
When asked "what shape is water," she replied Water doesn't have any shape!...It takes the shape you give it.She asks Montalbano to discover what really was behind Silvio's death -- the alternative, as she noted was to "stop at the shape they've given the water." Because of where her son had been found and because he'd been caught with his pants down, so to speak, Lupanello and his family name had been disgraced and his cronies were assured of never being part of local politics again.
2.5 starsA bit of a disappointment, it was a story as so many others I've read. This was no. 1 in a series. I will try another one at some stage. Usually later books get better.
The writing is laid back, the people are laid back, and even the murders and shootings which occur in the novel don't seem to spoil the lives of the regular folks.
Everyone who has lived in this part of the world (not just Sicily, but Southern Europe in general), knows that people are quite lax about the law.
They do not always have ulterior motives (as is usual in crime novels from other parts of the world), and it's darn funny when those real motives are uncovered (view spoiler)[Pino didn't want to blackmail the lawyer Rizzo by making a transcript of their conversation, he wanted to make a play out of it.
Ce te intriga atunci cand incepi romanul este felul in care Camilleri creioneaza personajele.
In 200 de pagini, apar cam 10 personaje, multe din ele episodice, dar atat de bine conturate incat atunci cand afli rezolvarea misterului, desi ingenios si surprinzator, intelegi ce l-a motivat pe ucigas, stii ce fel de om este, desi tu l-ai cunoscut in maximum 4 pagini si cateva replici.
rRomanul acesta este foarte aproape de literatura de calitate prin stil.
Spre deosebire de Agatha Christie (care este ingenioasa, dar nu neaparat talentata) si de Simenon (care se vrea succint), Camilleri are un stil propriu, este, inainte de a fi un autor de roman politiste, un autor talentat!.
Me ha gustado Salvo Montalbano, es un tipo que desde el principio cae bien, con un carácter mediterráneo y latino en el que los españoles podemos vernos reflejados muy bien.
Andrea Camilleri consigue que lo veamos, que nos lo imaginemos, un tipo peculiar, con mucho vivido, posiblemente ya de vuelta de todo, amante de la buena comida y de los placeres de la vida.
Aunque el libro es anterior a la saga Bevilacqua y Chamorro me los ha recordado en muchos momentos, Bevilacqua y Montalbano tienen muchos puntos en común.El libro se lee de un tirón prácticamente así que en breve la reseña del segundo
Here's an example of Montalbano questioning a couple of young men on why they first contacted the underworld instead of the police when they discover a dead body: - What did you expect to get out of it?- We were hoping maybe he could find us other jobs or help us win some competition for surveyors, or find us the right job, so we wouldn't have to work as stinking garbage collectors anymore.
The Shape of Water is the 1st book in the Inspector Montalbano Mystery series that takes place in Sicily.
It is called the Pasture.
Two cleaners who pick up garbage in the Pasture discover a car with a dead male body.
Inspector Montalbano does not want to close the case so quickly as he has some questions that he wants answered.
The book follows the Inspector as he asks questions and meets with quite a few people.
The best part of the book for me was Inspector Montalbano.
He is honest and hard working.
There is a lot of corruption that he has to work through.
A pleasant diversion, bathed in Sicily. Review to come.
When the identity of the near-naked man is found to be Silvio Luparello, from a local family of wealth, a patron of various public institutions and politicians, there is quite a flurry of interest.
Could they be concealing something more than an effort to steal evidence?This novel is an introduction to the good Montalbano, his lover, his neighbors, his co-workers and staff, along with the urban milieu of Sicily.

6.5/10A very quick read. Light entertainment. A cross between Colombo and The Sopranos. I suspect I would enjoy the televised version, as this just screams out, “the small silver screen.” Good dialogue, fast paced. My main quibble with this one is the translation. My cultural antennae pick up a certain dissonance that trips up the pace at times.
I enjoyed this romp through corrupt Sicily led by the engaging protagonist, a police inspector quite happy to discard evidence if it serves the ultimate aim of seeing that justice is done.
There's a likeable cast of the good, the bad and the beautiful acting in ugly ways and it all seems almost believable.
And while the crime is central to the story, it's the mood, the attitude and the sense of a good man in a corrupt world that keeps you engaged.
Download my starter library for free here - http://eepurl.com/bFkt0X - and receive my monthly newsletter with book recommendations galore for the Japanophile/crime fiction/English teacher in all of us.
Στα θετικά βάζω και το γεγονός ότι μου θύμισε λιγάκι από το ύφος του Λεονάρντο Σάσα, ο οποίος είναι ένας πραγματικά εξαιρετικός συγγραφέας που προτείνω (και ας έχω διαβάσει μόνο δυο βιβλία του).Δεν θα πω και πολλά για την ιστορία, ο Μονταλμπάνο καλείται να ερευνήσει τον θάνατο ενός μηχανικού και τοπικού πολιτικού, που βρέθηκε νεκρός στο αυτοκίνητο του, σε ένα κακόφημο μέρος, στο οποίο νταραβερίζονται πόρνες και κωλομπαράδες με πελάτες.
Η γραφή μου άρεσε πολύ, θα την χαρακτήριζα άνετη, άκρως ευκολοδιάβαστη και ξεκούραστη.Γενικά είναι ένα καλό αστυνομικό μυθιστόρημα, ό,τι πρέπει για μια ευχάριστη και ξεκούραστη ανάγνωση στην παραλία.
Me ha durado dos sentadas.Se agradecen libros que no sean ladrillos tabiqueros pero te cuenten una historia no solo interesante sino con gusto por los personajes.
Apenas da datos sobre cómo son los personajes.
Es más, acaba la historia y en realidad ata cabos, pero no espereis esos finales americanos de personajes confesando de plano.De hecho voy a comenzar el segundo para ver si incluyo a este detective entre mis favoritos del género.
This is the first in a series of Italian crime novels set in Sicily.
The love of his life, Livia, lives elsewhere and they have a tumultuous relationship but are true to one another and very simpatico.
Montalbano has a great, if quirky, team with whom he constantly fights.
And, of course, Montalbano is extremely insightful and creative and solves all the crimes.
While reading these novels, I yearn for seafood and pasta.
It is a great trip for those of us who love mysteries and find that nothing is more fun than getting into a good series.
Three and Half Stars.It is an interesting and engaging but not a gripping mystery.
But it does not grip you.It is an entertainer for sure.
A perfect read at the beach or in the travel.Besides, one gets to know of the inner politics of the Sicilian state of the Italy.
The attitudes of the Sicilians towards the rest of Italy, especially about North Italy and the way Sicilians see themselves in their context, the inner workings of the Sicilian society (relating to law and order), the problems prevalent in Sicily (illegal migrants, unemployment, the workings of Mafia, etc) - these all get highlighted.
Subtle.
One of the only murder mysteries that I have read that is much more interested in the “why” than the “who” and “how.” Intelligent humor.
Maybe a bit smart for me.
When the narrator or characters describe someone or something as being like a painting by an painter that I have never heard of, or reference plays by authors unknown to me, I start to wonder if there was a pre-requisite to this class and I missed it.
I enjoyed it and might be tempted to read more but it is a bit dry and light for my taste.
Camilleri e Montalbano in particolare si stanno facendo rapidamente strada nel mio cuore! Ne ho letti solo un paio, finora, ma mi piace molto lo stile di Camilleri e adoro Montalbano come personaggio, ironico e tagliente al punto giusto, ma sempre rispettoso. Le trame sono intriganti ma non eccessivamente complesse e la lettura scivola via in un attimo. Credo, caro Andrea, che il nostro rapporto sarà duraturo!
3.5 stars. Sicilian Inspector Montalbano is a cross between Columbo and Spenser -- a relentless, imaginative gourmand. A politician is found is a dispreputable neighborhood, apparently dead of a heart attack. Everyone wants to move on, but some niggling details bother the detective, who unravels mysteries behind the strange death. Nice pictorial of Sicily.
If you like a straight forward crime thriller coloured in black and white then this is not something you wish to read.
It is no murder but the dots do not connect.A very decent crime thriller situated in the Italian/Sicilian surrounding and the writer does offer an nice but uncomfortable insight in the world of Inspector Montelbano.
Very recognizable for a European reader and those who watched the Italian tv shows like 'La Piovra".A good thing that I bought the first five books of this series, I am looking forward to returning to Sicily.
