https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1339223.The_Forsyte_Saga_Volume_Three
END OF THE CHAPTER is all about the Charwell family (pronounced "Cherrell") who still live at the ancestral home, Condaford Grange.
Uncle "Cuffs" Cherrell, who dies in chapter one, is a bishop.
The heroine (and main character) here is Dinny Cherrell, daughter of the general.
And so, in the final chapter Dinny does the right thing and walks down the aisle with Dornford, much to everyone's relief.
There are too many beautiful, elegant sex goddesses here---Dinny, Diana Ferse, Clare, Jean---that Galsworthy idealizes to the nth degree.
And Dinny, whom many men love, remains the virginal princess until Wilfrid Desert comes along.
This writer is phenomenal. He has great insight into the English character - what moves English people, the reasons for their behavior - and he writes a compelling story at the same time.He is someone I aspire to emulate as an author. His wit is very dry, and his descriptions pithy.
Maid in waiting  4/5Do you remember the Forsyte's? Well, at least in this novel the main family are the Cherrell's. Who? Well, they are the cousin's of Michael Mont, Fleur Forsyte's husband (that is, Soames Forsyte's daughter). It's ok if you don't know who these people are, there isn't much relation between this volume and the two previous ones (or, at least, that's my opinion after reading the first book of End of the Chapter .It takes place in the late 20's and early 30's and the main charac
It's ok if you don't know who these people are, there isn't much relation between this volume and the two previous ones (or, at least, that's my opinion after reading the first book of End of the Chapter .It takes place in the late 20's and early 30's and the main character is Elizabeth 'Dinny' Cherrel is a young woman of 22, clever, beautiful and with wit, that doesn't have any intention to marry and likes to meddle in other people's lives (and she's quite good at solving problems).
The End of the Chapter, the last part of the trilogy of trilogies, draws the line: some new sort of mentality emerged which is neither better or worse than the ancient one. If only it is fairer, but that too comes at a price - disillusionment, perhaps. Once again, Galsworthy is an unequal judge of value and character, hence the pleasure of going through the labor of reading 2,500 something pages.
Definitely worth reading.
This one is best skipped. A noticeable drop in quality from the first trilogy, both in characterization and writing. Recommended only to those who can't get enough of Fleur (I'm not one), but be warned she's only a side character here.
The End of the Chapter came as if new to me, though I remember having read all 9 volumes of THE FORSYTE SAGA in my late teens.
As compared to "The Forsyte Saga" and "A Modern Comedy", this last part of the huge trilogy has a feeling of modernity that I could not find in the previous two collections.
To my opinion, the first two parts (mentioned above) I consider as CLASSICS, in the style of writing and tone of narration.
This last part surprises with a vivid pace of narration, plenty of characters well designed and mixed up to make your head twirl at times.
I read the originals years ago, but just now discovered the last three books. I've been enmeshed in the 1900 to 1920 period for a while now--not sure why, and this is a terrific addition.
The first two trilogies have interconnecting interludes between each of their two parts...............................................................................................................................................The Forsyte Saga:-The Forsyte Saga was not planned as such but developed over years with sequels coming naturally as they did, and human heart and passion and minds within settings of high society of a Victorian and post Victorian England - chiefly London - and its solid base in property.When it was published it was revolutionary in the theme - a woman is not owned by her husband, and love is not a duty she owes but a bond that is very real however intangible, that cannot be faked.Wednesday, September 10, 2008........................................................................

Where are the Forsytes?Extremely vain and disappointing. This doesn't have the appeal the two previous trilogies have. In fact, it bears nothing in common.Most of the dialogue are artificial and only serve to express the ideas of the author or his generation while not advancing the plot at all. In fact, they are completely unrelated to it.As for the different situations, well, I don't actually care for any of them because I expected this to be about the Forsytes. The word "Forsyte" itself barely even comes out. I probably won't go through to the end of this.
I have completed the three volume Foresyte Chronicle. It was well worth the discipline to tackle the entire family saga. The writing was consistently witty, elegant and crisp throughout. My only disappointment is that the final volume marginalized the primary characters from the earlier sections and introduced a new family branch. I found myself missing the former figures, attentively watching for signs of their appearance. This is an excellent writer who can make me miss fictional figures as if they were good friends who I grew to like dispite their obvious flaws.
I loved this book (or books)! I loved the storyline of decay among the aristocracy--it's an interesting counterpoint to the climbing, energetic Forsytes. I love the dismal Cherrells and their take on the world.Granted, there are some issues. For example, I'm not sure why Wilfred's conversion to Islam was the earth-shattering event for all of them that it was (even though he converted under duress). That seemed a bit heavy, but then again, I think the weight of it colluded with the reality that sometimes things will not work without any good reason.
So I started reading this book that I found at The Book Thing in Baltimore because it is by the same guy who wrote the Forsyte Saga, which I loved.
Having just searched for it on this website, I see that it is actually part of the series, which I didn't realize.
So, this fact in itself is rather telling.
I had know idea this mediocre book is the sequel to a very good book, its that "eh".
I am only partway through book seven, so we'll see, perhaps it'll pick up.
I guess I know why it is called book seven now.
Read these as separate books and really enjoyed the saga continuing into the time of the Great Depression (even though it was never referred to be that name). The characters and their circumstances are so foreign to me, yet Galsworthy was able to make them quite sympathetic and their various dilemmas engaging.
This is the final 3 books of the Forsyte Saga I think you would only start this if you had already read and loved books 1 to 6 as I have. To me it seemed slightly less Galsworthy and slightly more Wodehouse. This isn't necessarily a bad thing and the wit is great. I dint want to finish as it means nor more Forsytes for me!
He occupies such a well-ordered universe--England in the 1930's--that his work has become my default comfort read. I've also been a little dubious about his worthiness as a Nobel prize winner--but when you consider they gave it to Pearl Buck, too....
I really enjoyed the story of the Cherrell family, Especially Dinny. I found her much more likeable than her cousins featured in the earlier Forsyte novels. I found Dinny's story very moving. As always, the insight into the social and historical background is fascinating.
1933 hardback
Brilliant, was sorry to finish
I finally found it!
absolutely fabulous! I really couldn't put it down. probably Galsworthy's best book
