https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/854593.The_Hot_Spot
The robbery goes as smoothly as it can but Madox's life goes spiraling out of control in a web of sex, murder, and blackmail.I'm going to have to track down more Charles Williams books.
While Mrs. Harshaw was pure poison, it was easy to see how Madox wouldn't be able to resist her.
Madox's internal conflict about the robbery, murders, blackmail, and feelings for Gloria was very well done.
As things fell apart, the book took on a frantic pace and I couldn't put it down.The Hot Spot is one hell of a read and my favorite crime novel to be adapted into a movie starring Don Johnson.
What was my batting average so far for staying out of trouble when it was baited with that much tramp? It was an even zero, and I didn't see anything in the situation here that promised I'd improve very much.  All I can do is chuckle whenever I read about people being in such an uproar recently about the ending of the book and movie Gone Girl. I keep thinking that obviously they've never really read true classic noir fiction. Because if they had, then they'd know that an ending like that is tr
It was originally published as a Gold Medal original, titled Hell Hath No Fury, but is now more commonly known as The Hot Spot after the movie adaptation.
Maybe some day I'll make it and become the only bank director in the world who started at the bottom by robbing the bank and worked his way up by becoming indispensable to a bitch, and the only one anywhere who has twelve thousand three hundred dollars of his bank's assets buried under six inches of slowly rotting manure in a collapsing barn on a sandhill and who intends to let it stay there until the barn rots or the money rots or he rots himself.
He's only 30 years old, but his voice in the novel makes him feel like 50.A former marine, brawler and opportunist, Madox lands a job as a used car salesman in a small Texas town in the early 50's.
Either the public expectations have changed, or the editors prefer to sell books by the pound, but most of the recent crime novels I've tried have at least three times the length and half the story.One final note about the movie adaptation : check it out, Virginia Madsen and Jennifer Connelly are spot on, and the whole claustrophobic pressure of high summer in a very small town captured just right.
The other writer I kept thinking about when casting for comparisons, however, is Cornell Woolrich, because for much of the novel we have unrelenting fear, dread, paranoia, and a mind threatening to unhinge with the ticking clock.Plenty of reviews describe the plot, so I will just give you the ingredients: a smooth-talking amoral drifter; a reckless femme-fatale; a nice girl hiding nasty secrets; a scummy blackmailer, a crafty Sheriff; a sultry small town in Texas; and a bank begging to be robbed.Another stellar in medias res beginning from Williams - he’s just about the best at these - and it is amazing how much complexity he layers into the first two short chapters.
Thirty years old, Madox starts work as a used car salesman for George Harshaw, a man who made his bones in the loan business and recently began selling automobiles.
Madox is hot, bothered and lazy and when ordered to repossess a '54 Ford, begins to argue with his boss, until he gets a look at the girl being sent with him, Harshaw's 22-year-old loan officer Gloria Harper.Gloria is nervous about taking the Ford from its deadbeat owner, a lug named Frank Sutton who lives far off the highway amid heavy pine and abandoned farmhouses.
With his fourth novel, Charles Williams hits his stride.
In Hell Hath No Fury, an Average Joe moves to a small town to work at a used car lot, and he happens to notice how easy it would be to rob the local bank.
In order to enjoy books of this sort, readers must grant writers a bit of latitude in the realm of plausibility; nevertheless, I do wish that Williams had done a little bit more to convince me that this particular Average Joe would jump at the chance to rob a bank.
But this is a minor quibble with an excellent book.
But Maddox sets his eyes on the beautiful and innocent Gloria Harper (who is a co-worker) whom he wants to settle down with and the barely secure small-town bank which he plans on robbing.
But standing in his way is Mrs.Harshaw, the hard-living backwoods redneck Sutton with whom Gloria Harper has a strange relationship and the local Sheriff who suspects Maddox of robbing the bank.
Williams is as adept at describing the small town as he is at describing the ocean: “The land began to drop away on the west side of the ridge and then we were in the river bottom, driving under big oaks, and it was a little cooler.
Harry Madox is a drifter, and drifts right into a maelstrom of opportunity and temptation; a bank begging to be robbed, a beautiful young girl with troubles, his boss' bored wife who is trouble."I was still sweltering when I went back to the room.
This Harry Madox is a fatalist and a pessimist - he knows he doesn't deserve the innocent Gloria, he expects the bank job to go wrong and he is certain the boss' wife will bring disaster.
I read this some time ago, and for some reason I thought this was a book by Charles Wileford (?). Anyway, this author did a wonderful job of concentrating on just what you needed for the story and no more. The setting, with its one-horse town and the one family in town with some money, will stick with you. The bored wife who could chop your nuts off if you do the wrong thing seemed like a real person in an era of bullshit femme fatales. The writing reminded me of Highsmith with a little Jim Thompson thrown in.
The Hot Spot is a novel with the perfect mixture of greed, guilt, lust, revenge, and violence that exemplifies 50's noir. Harry Modox, a drifter, wanders into town one day and finds a job at a used car lot. Soon, he’s talked into robbing a bank and, before he knows it, he’s tangled up in murder, an affair with his boss’ wife, and a beautiful girl not entirely what she seems. Small town America is intimately felt, William’s characters are colorful and sleazy, and the plot is fast-paced and exiting.
Pretty inspired sleaze from the unheralded king of erotic noir, Charles Williams. If you haven't seen the steamy Dennis Hopper movie starring Don Johnson, then check out the novel about the used car dealer who knocks off a bank while knocking around the local Madonna and the local whore, all within the same 190 pages. The pages will make your fingers burn and so will your pants!
Don't read this book if you like perfectly sketched characters who always act logical and reasonable.
Don't read this novel if you expect a story to develop slowly over hundreds of pages.
Don't read this book if you have problems with the one-sided perception of woman.
But read this book if you like it when a story starts right in the middle.
Read this novel if you like page-turners with a fast, but not too simple diction.
And read this book, if you take pleasure of a story that doesn't play in a perfect world.
good, fast read, but not deep, there is some pleasure in anticipating where the story is going in genre fiction and satisfaction when the story takes an unanticipated but correct twist. but this does not happen here. this is linear and too predictable. this makes me think of postman always rings twice death row confession, though the author is soon to be dead, he is condemned to be free. i think i wanted a conclusive, cathartic, and probably violent resolution to this story...
Torn between a review of four and a review of five ... Went with five, because once the story got going, it had top level suspense and drive. Seems like a typical noir plot, but ends a mythic tale of guilt and consequences.
This is the first book I've read by Williams, but I have more and will read more.
That Williams can make him likable, and indeed almost redeemed in a believable way by the end is a surprising thing and one reason for my high rating.
But Williams has these classic little phrases (sorry, I don't have it with me to quote) that had me highlighting for reference later, which is not something I usually do unless I'm teaching a novel.
Hmmm...The book has a nice little ending, and although it becomes pretty clear how it's going to wind down, that clarity comes late.
Harry sees how easy it would be to create another diversion and just walk off with all the cash, and he decides to do just that.Some of the later chapters in this book are just pure, rapid-fire page-turners.
Some of the most exciting chapters I've ever read in pulp.
It’s full of memorable chapters, tense, suspenseful moments which rise above most of those I've read in hard-boiled pulp.
I’ll definitely read more by this author.Some of the hard-boiled prose I liked:"There was no way to kiss her like a good boy.
“The Hot Spot” is a great noir book, period. Its all here. The “femme fatale”, the protagonist, that has no morals and gets over his head and the “good girl” who will redeem him. A hellish heat and a small town are used almost as characters, giving the perfect mood to the tale and the plot is full of twists and plans that go wrong and a “not so happy” ending. The book has no flaws. The writing is crisp, the characters all jump out of the page and the pace is absolutely perfect. Theres a sense of
“The Hot Spot” is a great noir book, period.
A hellish heat and a small town are used almost as characters, giving the perfect mood to the tale and the plot is full of twists and plans that go wrong and a “not so happy” ending.
The writing is crisp, the characters all jump out of the page and the pace is absolutely perfect.
I do wish the book was a bit longer, maybe getting some more background on Madox or on Mrs. Harshaw but maybe the somewhat vagueness of their past added to the charm of the story.
I like noir with a true good guy.
The writing is so good and the dark secret so alluring that I can't stop reading until the end.
After reading this novel and half of Dead Calm I can say that whatever hurdle Williams's racy book covers and labeling might pose to more conservative readers, it is completely unjustified and misrepresenting.
Just read the book.
If you like noir, it doesn't get any better than this.]

I really wanted to like this novel more.
The novel is cleanly written, paced well enough, and the setting of small town USA feels real and tangible - however Williams seems to play it easy, as though he's playing to the reader's sensibilities - unlike Goodis or Thompson who went quite the opposite, and toyed with reader's sensibilities like some deranged cat toying with a dead mouse.
One big failing is when Williams clearly telegraphs who's involved in the double-cross so early in the novel, a physical description that tells you what's coming in the end and strips the mystery down to nothing.
This wonderful yarn has all the staples of a classic noir.
After reading Chandler, Hammmett, and some of the other innovators of the genre, I found the non police/gangster/PI characters to be refreshing.
Harry's background as an average drifter with a muddied past was a perfect fit with the environment, implementation, and outcome of his deeds.Williams' dialogue had the perfect amount of filth and grit without being "Spillane-over-the-top".I will not seek out the movie for fear of ruining the satisfaction and mental images gained from reading the novel.And remember, what happens of the sawdust pile...stays in the sawdust pile.
What a perfect title was "Hell Hath No Fury", but maybe someone feared that would give too much away, I don't know.
Regardless, this was my first Charles Williams novel but will not be my last.
Classic in its noir beat, making it easy to see how "modern" a novel of this type it was when it came out.
Enjoyed the 50's small town, the unpretentious bad but likeable main character, the no-apologies sex without porn.
Much of the story you can see coming but it's such a pleasure the way Williams wrote it.
Couldn't put it down at times, especially last 40%.
A story about a misanthropic thirty years old guy tired of selling cars in a small town who decides to rob a bank. I enjoyed the contained setting and the contrasting characters. The relationship between the protagonist and the twenty one years old pretty coworker (view spoiler)[he falls for (hide spoiler)] made the ending particularly harrowing. The prose was lean and precise and did a good job putting you in the scene. Hard-boiled femme fatale stuff.
(A Goodreads recommendation that I'd already read.) The original title of this book, I think, is Hell Hath No Fury. I'm a big fan of Williams's hardboiled stuff and his nautical thrillers. Hot Spot is a good place to start.
Having seen the movie 5 or 6 times I was curious about the book, but was sort of expecting it not to live up to the excellence of the movie. The book and the movie aren't much different from each other, both are great.
See...another book that proves the "the book was better" axiom. Pulpy, noiry, and femme fataley. Crisp and clean like a green apple.
A master of suspense...Plot thickens with each chapter and then unravels with utter brilliance. A great book.
It doesn't get any better than this: "She was as crazy as frozen dynamite." and "But, as always, when I gathered her up and threw her out of my mind there was a little of her left over, the way there is in a room a girl has just walked through."
'This is the way it looks at thirty, I thought; anybody want to stay for forty?' How come noir gets truer every day? Why slog through volumes of turgid existentialist philosophy when its all here in a nutshell?
The original title to this was "Hell hath no fury" and thats what happens,but not till the last chapter. It starts with Maddox, a drifter who comes into a small town and sees some opportunities, then his luck turns from good to bad. My rating 3.8
