https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65641.The_Silver_Chair
I started reading this with my boy ages ago, but I never got around to marking it as finished here on Goodreads.Generally speaking, I enjoyed reading him the book, and he liked hearing it. I have a nostalgia for the Narnia Chronicles, too. And that makes these books a little sweeter for me.My younger boy (age 3.5 at the time of reading) enjoyed it too. Especially some of the more action-oriented scenes, and the stuff underground.
The Silver Chair (Chronicles of Narnia, #4), C.
لوئیس؛ مترجم: شهناز انوشیروانی؛ تهران، محیط، 1376؛ در 184 ص؛ شابک: ایکس -96462461؛ عنوان روی جلد: صندلی جاویی؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی - سده 20 ممترجم: امیر اقتداری؛ منوچهر کریم زاده؛ تهران، هرمی، کیمیا، 1379؛ در شش و 229 ص؛ شابک: 9647100086؛ چاپ سوم 1385؛مترجم: پیمان اسماعیلیان؛ ویراستار: شهرام رجب زاده؛ تهران، قدیانی، 1387، در 304 ص؛ شابک: 9789644178542؛ چاپ سوم 1394؛ مترجم: محمدرضا شمس؛ تهران، پنجره، 1387، در 200 ص؛ شابک: 9789648890891؛نقل از متن کتاب: مدتهای درازی است که من، صدای آواز نشنیده ام.
How is a middle-aged feminist nonbeliever supposed to feel about this contradictory volume?Pro: Jill Pole is a strong, active, fun, funny, vigorous girl that any reader, male or female, will be happy to have as a protagonist.
Pro: Jill is a fully developed character who shows that kids can be strong and important without being paragons of virtue.
Like, in another review.)Con: Quite aside from the relatively passive sexism of Lewis' pitting pre-sexual girls against dangerously seductive full-grown female villains, he also displays active sexism in this book.
Jill and Eustace are together on this adventure because they go to the same school.
Probably the weakest so far, but scraped 4 stars and still fun More tomorrow :)Right I have been thinking about this review all day.
It was the weakest of the books so far with what felt almost like a padded out story and I was thinking it would be a 3 star read.
That said i didn't bank on Puddleglum, he was the real star of the book and added enough to make me give it 4 stars.The book features the Pevensie's cousin Eustace, now a Narnian regular and a "jolly good chap" with a schoolfriend of his rescuing Prince Caspian's heir.
Not only does it have all the usual elements of this wonderful, rich fantasy world Lewis created, but the characters are better, at least in my opinion, the story feels less contrived, and it has the added benefit of being a proper novel.
Maybe Lewis finally got the memo that post-war girls were a different breed.But even though I rather adored Jill, I think my favorite character--not just from this book, but out of the whole series--has to be Puddleglum the Marsh-wiggle.
The Silver Chair is a fascinating adventure story of the Chronicles of Narnia.
Instead we meet Eustace, returned to Narnia with Jill Pole, a school friend of his.
Although one misses Pevensies, the characters of Eustace and Jill who replace them do justice to the story and display enough bravery and courage.
The minute and colourful description of the various places where the adventurers found themselves painted a true picture of the setting that one feels one is living in the story with all those characters.
With this read I have finished six books of the Chronicles, and the Silver Chair is my second favourite, placed between The Lion, the Witch and The Wardrobe and Prince Caspian.
I'm just going to give a generic opinion of the whole series.We love them.The end.Okay, so maybe I'll tell you that we read them outloud to the kids almost 2 years ago.
So they were 5 going on 6 and 2.
They all loved them and followed the plot and talked about the characters during their play.We're re-reading them again (now ages 8, 4 and 2) and they're loving them even more than the first time.
They have conversations with the characters, "So Edmund, what do you think about the squirrel doing such and so?"I think this is a series of books that needs to be read over and over again.
The 6th book in the Chronicles of Narnia, Eustace from The Voyage of the Dawn Treader is back and this time he brings along a schoolmate, Jill Pole to adventure in Narnia. I always had the impression that this particular book was scary or the darkest of the series. Blame it on the BBC series that I saw on YTV as a kid.I thought the Queen was going to be as dark and mean as the one from The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe. However, I felt it was a bit boring.
I just love this series so much. No matter how many times I read it, I never get tired of it! And each time I read it, it’s like I’m discovering Narnia for the first time again. This book is one of my favourites out of the series, I love the adventures our heroes go through to save the lost prince and return him to his rightful place. It allows us a look at a different part of the world of Narnia and it truly is magical!
PUDDLEGLUUUMMMMM. <3I forgot how much I love him.  "I'm on Aslan's side even if there isn't any Aslan to lead it. I'm going to live as like a Narnian as I can even if there isn't any Narnia." MY SOUL IS FEELING THINGS. <333(Also, these two bits were particularly priceless. xD And in the inquiry all sorts of things about Experiment House came out, and about ten people got expelled. After that, the Head's friends saw that the Head was no use as a Head, so they made her an Inspector to interf
"I'm on Aslan's side even if there isn't any Aslan to lead it.
I'm going to live as like a Narnian as I can even if there isn't any Narnia."
MY SOUL IS FEELING THINGS.
And in the inquiry all sorts of things about Experiment House came out, and about ten people got expelled.
And when they found she wasn't much good even at that, they got her into Parliament where she lived happily ever after.
A Centaur has a man-stomach and a horse-stomach.
That's why it's such a serious thing to ask a Centaur to stay for the weekend."
Yes, I knooooow it's not actually inside the wardrobe, yadda yadda yadda...I loved reading about the latest developments in Narnia.
and most of all, I enjoyed accompanying our three heroes on their quest, looking forward to the new lands they'd discover.So 2 stars for the awesome world building aspect and Puddleglum's (unintended) pep-talk through reverse psychology.
I was expecting religious propaganda, poorly veiled Christian morality and the obligatory black and white world-view.
On the other hand, the overly simplified morality made it difficult for me to take any character/development seriously.That said, I'm looking forward to the movie, and the portrayal of the different lands and people that the heroes encounter.
In this book, Eustace and Jill travel back to Narnia.
Jill meets Aslan and she's assigned to find the long-lost prince, there're signs to remember while they're wandering into the dangerous land.
But Jill forgets all things Aslan tells her, that makes they lost themself in the giant city.
They must find a way out.I found out that this book has the slow beginning, but when Eustace, Jill and Puddleglum travel to the Underworld, it gets better.
This book kept my interest after it passed 60%, and the end was worth.ชอบเล่มนี้รองจาก The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe เลย ตอนท้ายสนุกมากๆ การผจญภัยน่าตื่นเต้น ไดอะล็อกดี ตอนจบก็ทรงพลัง ถ้าไม่ติดว่าช่วงแรกมันอืดๆไปหน่อยก็น่าจะได้คะแนนเต็มแล้ว ตอนก่อนจะอ่านก็คิดว่าถ้าาไม่มีปีเตอร์ เอ็ดมันด์ ซูซาน ลูซี่ หนังสือเล่มนี้ก็คงจะไม่สนุกแล้วหรือเปล่า ?
This is my sixth journey into the fantastical lands of Narnia, as I have chosen to read the series in chronological rather than publication order.Eustace Stubb and Jill Pole manage to escape the bullies of their own world and enter into the fantastical lands of Narnia.
It is up to the duo, along with the help of Puddleglum the Marsh-wiggle, to traverse the strange country, find the missing heir and save Narnia for the doom that could otherwise befall it.Like the other instalments in this series, there was a moralistic and overtly religious edge to the text that jarred with me, as a contemporary reader.
Το λες και τυφλοσούρτη.- Οι αγαπημένες φράσεις του Lewis ήταν presently και Great Scott!- Τα πολλά κενά στην υπόθεση καλύπτονται με τη προσφιλή λύση "a wizard did it".- Λογικά, το 7ο βιβλίο θα κλείσει με τη φράση "It was all a dream".Σε γενικές γραμμές, πρόκειται για μια τρυφερή παιδική saga που πολύ φοβάμαι πως δε θα προσελκύσει πολλούς ενηλίκους.
Φαίνεται πως μερικά έργα πρέπει να διαβάζονται το πολύ μέχρι την εφηβεία.
Α, το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο; Καλούτσικο.
There are various factors -- one of which is simply that I don't like seeing Narnia come to an end!
But the main one is that I don't find Jill, Eustace and Puddleglum that compelling as main characters.
They're quite realistic and human, and lack the nobility that Peter, Susan, Edmund and Lucy have, I think.
Perhaps too realistic.
Puddleglum is an interesting idea for a character, but I don't find him that compelling.It doesn't help that this book is fairly dreary.
Overall, though, I find it hard to get into and sympathise with the characters.I do find myself tearing up, even now, at Caspian's death and renewal.
GoodReads/Amazon management is censoring reviews from the sight of their "community".
Criticism of the acquisition of GoodReads by Amazon results in the summary disappearance of the review from the book listing, without informing the reviewer.
Copies of the complete version of this review have therefore been posted to the following sites:http://bobquasit.dreamwidth.org/74633...https://plus.google.com/1010891083815...http://pmaranci.booklikes.com/post/47...http://www.librarything.com/work/1182...If you, like me, object to what Amazon has done to the world of books, book lovers, and book shops, you can find many alternatives to GoodReads (for reviews) and to Amazon (for shopping) at the "Escaping Amazon" community [https://plus.google.com/communities/1...].
. There are better sites, both for reading and for shopping.
Absolutely brilliant, one of my favourite Chronicle of Narnia books.
Another great instalment in the Chronicles of Narnia! I think Puddleglum is quite possibly the best character ever created. I would love to see a series starring him. His attitude is like a bad-ass Eeyore.
I felt that The Silver Chair gave better character arcs to the "son and daughter of Adam and Eve" than some of the other Narnia books.
Also, the Marsh-wiggle is a well drawn character and pretty unique from Lewis' other personalities in Narnia.
Like the other books in the series, this one continues to touch the surface of the adventures and explanations, but I felt it was more complete than some of the other books in the series.
And I found myself very much enjoying the adventures and the characters throughout the book!***Embarking to Narnia again;)
The inspiration of the Corrigan as a distant relative of the Morrighan is, I think, alluded to in the distant relationship between the witches of the north to Jadis.Jadis has, like Aslan, echoes of Norse naming.
So, heading north, I will point out that the giants dominate the tale of The Silver Chair, far more than silvery things or watery things or lunar things.
But it certainly wasn’t enough to catapult The Silver Chair so far up it has come to rival my all–time favourite story.What did it was a study of threshold covenants.
, all the way through The Silver Chair.
I'm getting a smidge frustrated that we are starting to follow the side characters from other Narnia novels. I want more Lucy! I want more Peter!Blog | Instagram | Twitter
Algo que puedo aceptar hasta cierto nivel, pero en este libro parece que Lewis se desvive por degradar a las mujeres.
Este es el primer libro (cronológicamente) que no presenta a Lucy, el personaje femenino era fuerte y valiente.
Eso fue algo con lo que no pude en todo el libro.Para ser el penúltimo libro no estuvo al nivel que se necesitaba, ya que me daba igual lo que sucedía con los personajes, espero que el siguiente que es el ultimo este mucho mejor, simplemente por ser el final de la saga.
I. Love. Puddleglum.
اسلان بچه ها رو مسلح کرده که با اون قلدرهای مدرسه بجنگند و خودش هم پشت یه ماجرا کرده و هوای بچه ها رو داره و دیواری هم که اومدن به این دنیا ویران شده.
اما قبل از اینکه پلیس بیاد، اسلان همه چیز رو درست کرده و دیوار هم سالم و بچه ها هم رفتن و اینا..
حالا ببینید لوئیس در توصیف این ماجرا چی نوشته: »وقتی پلیس رسید، نه شیری دید، نه دیوار ریخته ای و نه مجرم فراری ای، فقط خانم مدیر مدرسه بود که مثل دیوانه ها شده بود و همین مسئله موجب شد که کل مدرسه و مسائل آن، موضوع بازرسی قرارگیرد.
The two of them were then sent to Narnia to find the missing Prince Rillian, son of Caspian X and the heir of Narnia throne.Eustace and Jill is my favorite pair in Narnia series.
While the Pevensies had been the kings and queens, it could be said that Eustace and Jill were nobodies so they somehow more carefree and without much responsibilities and expectations.
Jill had never been to Narnia and Eustace had only gone once and in a short time so he hardly more experienced.
There’s hints on the world’s end and the next and final book in the series (chronologically) so it makes finishing this series more exciting.
A pleasure to read this to my kids. Arguably my favourite Narnia book! And isn't this every bullied child's dream - to escape the bullies and be whisked away to a magical land?
The Journey to the Depths22 June 2017 Well, here we have another C.S. Lewis book which suggests that this post might actually be quite long. The reason for this is that C.S. Lewis is one of the most considered writers that I know and when he wrote, and published, a book he never did it by halves. As such we have, like the rest of the Chronicles of Narnia, a book that while it has been written for children, and generally aimed at children (which is impressive for somebody who never had children o
The idea of the katabasis appears regularly in Greek literature and usually involves the hero traveling into the underworld to either garner information by communing with the dead, or in some cases, such as Orpheus, to bring somebody back to life (and while the story of Orpheus drips with a lot of Christian allegories, this is not the place to explore it).
However, this idea isn’t necessarily just Christian because there are even stories of how people go to great lengths, and plow into such areas of darkness, to save somebody (think of the movies of the Vietnam Vets returning to Vietnam to rescue their brothers in arms).The Journey	The Silver Chair has only one character, Scrubb, coming from the previous books, and introduces a new character, Jill Pole.
Maybe Narnia is not for me.
I mean, I loved the first one but, it had a sparkle I haven't found in the others so far.
This one was even slow pace wich is stupid cause the letter is huge and the number of pages a piece of cake for a normal reader.
It is adventurous as all the other books I've read so far but the new characters lack something the originals had.
Anyway, it helps when you just read something very long and challenging.
Sigo leyendo las continuaciones porque quiero saber como acaba la serie pero la verdad no la estoy disfrutando mucho.
Aun asi, seguiré leyendo.
This witch wants to conquer Narnia for some reason, but she gets less page-time than the other villains in The Chronicles so it's hard to peg her as anything more than a symbol.Our heroine, Jill Pole, is tasked with finding a lost prince who's been enchanted by the witch.
Yet Jill and her companions muff the first three clues and the final clue (regarding the prince's identity) turns out to be a disappointing mystery because the Prince is literally the only man they meet on their journey.But maybe there's a reason Lewis' allegory has a bit of a parody feel this time around, for of all the chronicles The Silver Chair features the most humor.
Not only is this a perfect metaphor for the concept of belief and faith, but it also serves to provide an interesting dilemma in situations such as when Eustace and Jill decide to go into Castle Harfang due to the cold - rather than follow what the signs truly tell them to do.My favourite character in this novel is Puddleglum the Marsh Wiggle.
There is plenty more depth in these books than many recognise and certainly far more than merely Christian themes and messages.
