https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13326831-the-testing
So rather than wasting my breath critiquing this clone, allow me to introduce to you to what I like to call how to write a cookie cutter Hunger Games style knockoff in four easy steps, no EasyBake oven required.Step One - The Generic Dystopian LandscapeThis one is simple.
Set this shit in one such overtaxed small town, where people live in general squalor but still have the time and materials to make and enjoy ice cream of all things, because when potable water and electricity are everyday concerns, dairy farms and refrigeration can magically ignore the rules of this world.
Did I mention the dimple?And with that, you too can write a Hunger Games knockoff just like The Testing.
This book is a first person novel from the view of Cia. Cia is a young teen who is specially selected to join in The Testing.
This simplistic seeming skills are what has her standing apart from the crowd.The imagery of this story leaves you feeling how real this world is.
The main story line of the test, and Cia's goals and hope are still the focus.
Conspiracy, survival, friendship and more collide in the spectacular novel!Great quote from the book that helps set the stage:“Things don't always work out the way we hope.
I started this book this morning and didn't put it down.
Then her father pulls her aside on the night that she learns that she is being sent to the testing facility.He tells her Be careful who you trust, Cia. You do that and everything will be okay.
Cia is joined in the Testing by several fellow students from home, including Tomas, she hopes she can trust him of all people.
Then we have the Testing.
This book can stand it's own.
Funny, but giving up is the last thing I will do.
Giving up would be like admitting none of it mattered.
We are given the background of the United States and how it became the United Commonwealth in the beginning of the book, interspersed with Cia's commentary as she recalls her knowledge during the test:Question: Explain the First Stage of the War of the Nations.Answer: The assassination of Prime Minister Chae, which fractured the Asian Alliance, sparked a power struggle among the other nations and a civil war.
Her father is an important figure, he a botanist who has helped the colony develop and grow crops; this is particularly important in a world where resources and food are rare, and even soil and water are contaminated.Her life before the Testing is rich not in physical wealth, but in love and knowledge.
It’s hard to review a book that made you feel nothing at all.
As it was, I never felt excitement or dread, not even when Cia was running away from mutated humans through the city ruins.The romance started wonderfully, but it soon became apparent that it was written to satisfy the readers.
I know how reviewers think and what bothers most of us, and I have a feeling Charbonneau does too.
Like the romance, she is exactly the type of protagonist that will satisfy most reviewers.
If there was ever a book that was written solely to satisfy the market, that was perhaps even packaged, it’s this one.
Although this may have similar patterns to that of the Classic HG, the Testing is an original and perhaps an even better story.The story is centered on Malencia Vale or simply called Cia, a normal young girl but who is very smart and passionate about knowledge and has always wanted to be part of the Testing which is a process where a few selected graduates from high schools from every city have to go through and pass series of tests in order to be admitted to the prestigious University of the United Commonwealth (a post apocalyptic version of U.S) to eventually become future leaders themselves.Just as she thought she won’t be chosen, a twist of fate gives Cia the greatest news that she is qualified to be one of the testing candidates after all.
Cia goes in thinking she's prepared, alongside friend and potential love interest."The Testing" starts out being a series of evaluations (sort of like standardized tests), but then there are some given twists in the book that I'll admit I didn't see coming and intrigued me.
And those games were fun.) Granted, there were other scenarios that didn't really pull me into the narrative because they were a little more difficult to believe in a controlled environment, but I didn't mind them as much because I realized this was an environment of extremes, and there were going to be test takers who it would be a matter of time before they were "eliminated".
4 Stars for The Testing Yes, The Testing has similarities to Divergent and The Hunger Games but it's just different enough to set it apart and strong enough to make it's own name in the vast YA Dystopian category.    About the Book:  The world has been ravaged by The Seven Stages War. The United Commonwealth is trying to re-build with the help of a few chosen students. Cia has worked hard in school to be "chosen" as a candidate for The Testing so that she can attend the University. Unfortunatel
Cia has worked hard in school to be "chosen" as a candidate for The Testing so that she can attend the University.
I don't want to provide spoilers but the different stages of The Testing were fast-paced and interesting and by far my favorite parts of the book.I enjoyed the main character, Cia. Cia was smart (she knows all about botany and is into engineering - I love that!), rational (I loved how she puzzles things together!), vulnerable (in a way that was true to her age) and caring.
Buy this book HERE on Amazon   or buy this book HERE on BookDepository with FREE WORLDWIDE SHIIPPING I received an finished copy of this book from the publisher Houghton Mifflin Harcourt for free in exchange for an honest review. All opinions are my own. 2 of 5 stars (Please read my rating system further below).  Click HERE to watch my review on my YouTube channel LovingDemBooks My rating system: (I do use half stars.)5 - I do not use the 5 star. Not because a book might not be worthy, but beca
Buy this book HERE on Amazon
or buy this book HERE on BookDepository with FREE WORLDWIDE SHIIPPING
I received an finished copy of this book from the publisher Houghton Mifflin Harcourt for free in exchange for an honest review.
2 of 5 stars (Please read my rating system further below).
My rating system: (I do use half stars.)5 - I do not use the 5 star.
(A 4 star rating is the highest rating I've ever given a book.)3 - I enjoyed the book, but there we're flaws that made me enjoy it less.2 - I finished the book, but there were too many flaws for me to enjoy it.1 - I could not finish the book, and I probably did not finish it....
But never have I felt that one was a failed attempt to duplicate The Hunger Games.The selection process into the official contest, the rounds of training or in this case what felt like the pretest, the being thrown into an "arena" and going around killing to be among the survival of the fittest, the recording and monitoring system (what was the point of those?), even the patterns of the romance.
(hide spoiler)] Either way, I felt the romance was kind of forced in this book, and when there were sweet scenes, they didn't sit right with me.
The Testing is the first book in a new Dystopian trilogy by Joelle Charbonneau.
When Cia's hopes come true she undergoes the most grueling and stressful series of events designed to separate the strong from the weak.Comparisons to The Hunger Games are going to be inevitable with this book.
Scratch that, those fans will love this with the fiery passion of a thousand suns...
She's the girl who won't leave those she loves behind.
Because nothing is as it seems in The Testing and every triumph hides lies and malice beneath.
Thank God,we're all okay and could still manage to smile inspite of all these calamity.**Sorry for my tragic introduction,just can't help mentioning it..Anyway,here's my review:This book definitely is going to "My favorite dystopian series" shelf!^^The plot might look like the combination of the Hunger Games and Divergent,but I found that this is unique in its own way and I believe that this was made to become a better dystopian series,and be effectively a more desirable book.This is a story of young bright,promising students(16 year olds and above),who were chosen to be tested and prepared to become future leaders,by contributing their skills and abilities in revitalizing the earth,and to make the Commonwealth a better place in the future.I really liked the idea of the author on the "testing aspect" that she generated here,'cause it's realistic.This is the first stage of the Testing where the chosen candidates takes an actual academic examinations that they should pass,in order to proceed to three more stages.I loved all the characters and their personalities especially Cia Vale,the MC,because she's the smartest female protagonist I've ever met in a dystopian series.
Ahhh, why can't all young adult dystopias be like this?! As you may have noticed in my review for Matched, I think YA dystopias are pretty hard to write. The Testing was so often compared to The Hunger Games and Divergent that I couldn't help but draw similarities between them, as I was reading it. Though the Tests are somewhat similar to Dauntless Initiation and The Hunger Games, it's wholly unique and it's own. The pace is excellent, Cia is a an awesome protagonist (who  isn't  a Mary Sue), th
It's no surprise that I loved the Tests and battle-royale-like competitors.You know those books *cough*Divergent *cough* that have an intriguing setting, but don't give any detail as to how the society came to be like that?
They reminded me of the mutts from The Hunger Games, but that's probably just because their eyes still appear human, even though the rest of them is a mangled, bloody mess.The Testing.
He's so sweet and caring to Cia. I liked how their romance wasn't insta-love, and it manifested over time.
Seen at my blog, Scott Reads It!I have absolutely zero self control when it comes to dystopian books.
I just have this urge to read any dystopian book I can get my hands on and often I end up extremely disappointed.
This sounds like an awesome idea but it turns out this extreme standardized test has already been done before and way better (ex: Legend).
I'm pretty confident that The Testing will become a popular book and will sell extremely well.
Bottom Line:  If you're looking to read a great dystopian book, The Testing is not for you.
All the living want to do is care for the dead. And now they, too, are among the fallen. For those of you who aren't interested in the entire review, here's a recap: There.If that's not exhaustive enough for you, lemme give you all the details. Like I've said in one of my first reading updates, this reads exactly like something randomly picked from The Hunger Games, Divergent, Matched, Legendor The Selection. It doesn't matter what page or character you pick, it doesn't make much difference bec
It's like reading the same book over and over again, only each time it gets less and less entertaining and interesting.
The dialogues were basic and, I don't know if it was me or if the whole story was lacking the kind of world-building you sort of need in books like this one, but I still have some serious trouble understanding why and how certain things happened and were the way they were.
If the entire book looked even slightly like those few last pages did, I think I'd have loved this waaaaaaaaay more than I actually did.
It's been compared to the Hunger Games, and stars Cia, who is in one of the colonies who have not had any candidates selected for The Testing in a long time.
I don't know if it's because I haven't read a dystopian in a while (I burned myself out like many other reviewers and then took a long break), or what, but I really like the "test" aspect to the whole thing, which was definitely lacking in The Hunger Games, which it should, since that wasn't the focus.
At first, I was a little worried that it would be too reminiscent of THE HUNGER GAMES and DIVERGENT, but as I got into it, I realized that it was completely it's own creation of this world, while maybe feeling like an homage to those great dystopians that have come before it.It was so hard to put THE TESTING down.
I liked the beginning here. For that reason I feel like something more original could have come for the Main part of the story because it started out that wayThe ending also kinda left me wondering how two more books have been written in this series, unless it’s an anthology, since it seems to be going in a cyclical direction. Unsure if I will continue series.
(And they're allowed to kill each other along the way, of course.) But even with the rise in action, the second half of the book is pretty repetitive and I didn't find it too engaging.Cia is not a very strong protagonist, either, and she's pretty much a Mary Sue. She's super smart, and she tends to antagonize all the other characters and make them sound like inhuman, unfeeling beings.
Then we talked about the other thing some more." It's like … I don't want to just hear what you talked about, I want to know what the characters actually said.
My review:The Testing takes place in a world ravaged by the aftermath of war and a series of natural disasters.
Each year a group of the most talented students are chosen to compete in The Testing for one of the twenty available spots.
At first the tests seem innocuous: general knowledge exams in which Cia and her friends from Five Lakes Colony do well.
This is where the book becomes very “Hunger Games-ish.” Cia and Tomas vow to work together to find their way back.
As I read this book, I couldn’t help but think why a society would have only twenty spots for a university education.
Musím se přiznat, že ačkoliv na mě takhle kniha působila trochu jako vykrádačka HG a jiných "soutěžních" příběhů, tak se mi fakt líbila. :) Postavy byly suprově vykreslené, vlastně i "dystopický" svět se povedl (a to já ráda. když to dává smysl). A i přes některá klišé a věci, které mi hlava doteď nebere, se moc těším na další díl!
Some were good, others not so much.Now that said...there's actually very little resemblance between this book and Hunger Games other than there is a part of the plot where a group of young people are in a situation where they can end up trying to kill each other.Here we have (another) post-apocalyptic world.
(view spoiler)[ if the population is that small and they are trying to rebuild then why kill off dozens of the best and brightest every year????
It's a lot better than hunger games.
It has more action, *a lot* more violence, more interesting tests.
I also really liked it because none of the characters in the book are Mary Sues and Gary Stus.
Who was good, who was bad?...it just leaves you thinking, just the way a good book is supposed to be.Other than that, can't really find anything negative about this book, hence the five stars...Definitely recommend to those how liked Divergent or Hunger Games.
(It's kind of like a good mix of both.)
I received an ARC copy of this book from the publishers via Netgalley.Reading this book you can't help but compare it the The Hunger Games.
But as I read this book and turned each page, one thought came to mind: This is way more awesome then The Hunger Games can ever be!
I'll tell you why without giving away any spoilers!Although this story resembles THG, it's different in a lot of ways.
It makes me want to read the second book even more.
After she's been chosen for The Testing, her father warns her not to trust anyone.
Do what Cia's father said:  TRUST NO ONE.
Eindelijk de tijd gevonden om dit boek weer op te pakken en vervolgens in één ruk uitgelezen. Wat een geweldig boek!Ik moet toegeven dat ik op het begin twijfelde of het niet de hongerspelen kant op zou gaan maar nee uiteindelijk is het toch echt een heel ander verhaal (GELUKKIG). En dus krijgt het boek absoluut 5 sterren van mij. Ben erg benieuwd wat de volgende delen gaan brengen. Kan nu nog niet inschatten hoe het verder zal gaan. Maar ga deel 2 absoluut snel lezen!
En este momento tengo sentimientos encontrados, me gusto pero a la vez siento que le falto algo, ojala y en los que sigue mejore porque las ideas de la autora me han gustado.
Por un lado pienso que no llega a las 3 estrellas. Espero que cuando haga la reseña ponga en orden mis ideas y pueda ponerle una puntuación definitiva.Por otro lado solo voy a decir que es demasiado drama y que es thg con otro nombre.
$1.99 on Kindle: December 3, 2016https://www.amazon.com/Testing-Trilog...
Birbirini tekrarlayan distopyalar okumaktan fenalık geldi yemin ederim. Bölüm atlar gibi yazılan finale ne demeli peki?YAZAR: Kitabı beğenmedin mi, madem burada keseyim devamını okumak zorunda kal. *kötü karakter gülüşü* BEN: *göz deviren emoji* *surat asan emoji* *bıçak emojisi* A#D1HJ2AKS#GSHA@8?!Resmen şov ya. Git allasen.
This book really suprised me.
I had heard some very different things about this book some good and some bad so going into this book I didn't really know what I would get out of it.
This book is the perfect mix of suspence and action and a bit of romance.
I really liked Tomas's character and how Cia is so caring and she takes care of Tomas.
It was a really nice story and a nice touch to have some friendship between two of the characters, Overall 5 stars!
Really enjoyed this book.
