https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50839.Podkayne_of_Mars
I like Robert A.
Heinlein, he is certainly one of my favorite authors.
So I am biased and am here, his apologist.
While I can understand many feminists dislike of him and of this book in particular, I even winced at some passages, I would remind some that he was progressive minded when he wrote these, and was born in 1907, in Missouri, and attended a very different Naval Academy from the one we know today.
I thought he did a good job of characterization of Poddy, if not completely three dimensional.
I did feel the ending was disappointing and have read some other reviews that concur.Not one of his best, but it's Heinlein so a good SF tale at the end of the day.
I loved the book when I first read it as a teen, because I liked the character of Podkayne and was blissfully ignorant of bad things like sexism. Also, the cover was really sexy. My mom saw me with it once, and I had a hard time explaining to her that it was a Science Fiction novel and not what she thought it was.
RAGE.Of all the ridiculous sexist tripe!
I nearly threw this book against the wall so many times, it's a wonder I actually got through it.
In case you're reading this review and wondering what kinds of awesome tidbits the main character shares in her journal, they are statements about hiding your intelligence from men, never letting a man see that you are better at anything than he is, and accepting that you should never have aspirations that will hinder your ability to find a man and reproduce for the good of the universe.This book hints at so many possible plotlines and they go nowhere.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Sexual Mores: "Podkayne of Mars" by Robert A. Heinlein(Original Review, 1980-08-06)I was not a Heinlein fan before. I've probably read most of his work, but there are only 3 of his books I've kept to enjoy reading again. I've kept more than 3 of a LOT of other authors, such as Leinster, McCaffrey, Dickson, James White, and even Philip E. High. Nor did I "cut my teeth" on RAH, so I've no sentimental associations or long-standing loyalties. To me, he's just another SF-writer, though more competent than most.
It should be noted in fact that much of the descriptions of Pod's voyage are based on Heinlein's own experiences traveling the world, during and after his stint in the Navy.The original ending of Podkayne of Mars caused some controversy with the publishers which resulted in two endings to this story.
There's a short story by Isaac Asimov, What is this thing called love?, which he apparently wrote because he was tired of people telling him he couldn't do sex scenes.
I am the great Asimov, and I can do anything!
I imagine him saying, as he turned out what is actually a quite competent and funny story with a fair amount of sex.This is the same, but reversed.
Perhaps also tired of people's snide remarks, Heinlein writes a book in which the central character is an attractive girl who doesn't have sex with anyone throughout the entire novel.
I've just finished re-reading this book, which I first read when I was about 12 years old, right after it was published.
The librarian always held the new arrivals for me as I devoured everything available.Podkayne hit me right between the eyes.
Wow, I wanted to be her.In later years, as I reread the book, I recognized that Heinlein's sexism was expression of his generation and that he really liked women and maybe even thought them better than men.
So, in a way, Heinlein inspired me and encouraged me to reach outside of gender roles.Podkayne of Mars was one of the most influential books of my youth.
When I finished the first chapter of Podkayne my grin was so wide I damn near cut my own face off.
Heinlein had an indisuptable gift for killer openings (see for example "The Unpleasant Profession of Jonathan Hoag") and this one promised absolute glory to come.
The trouble is, the glory never comes.
the incredibly condescending, problematic, throw-the-book-across-the-room end.The only net positive I can find in Podkayne is that it's a fine example of Heinlein in exploratory rather than prescriptive mode.
This is such a stark relief from what I call Heinlein's "LOOK, YOU!" mode, where a mouthpiece struts across the page shouting "Look, you!
I'm giving this three stars, as there are two groups of people who shouldn't read this book: preteen girls, who might actually consider Podkayne a role model, and those who are Easily Outraged.
By 1962, science fiction master Heinlein had written a dozen Young Adult novels, all starring boys, and his publishers pointed out that he had a female fan base as well.
Heinlein insisted Podkayne of Mars was not a Young Adult novel, but a social commentary.
Meanwhile, those (both women and men) who recommended this book to me remembered it fondly from their own Young Adult days, probably impressed by the fun space adventures encountered by spunky Podkayne and her super-genius younger brother Clark.
Let me break down these statements one by one, because they make good talking points:"Here's what I learned from Podkayne of Mars, courtesy of Professor Heinlein (blech):"Already the reviewer communicated a judgment of the author's character.
And that, I think, says more about Heinlein's attitude towards men than his attitude towards women."If a woman wants to get a man's attention and get the information she needs to further her career, she should just act like a moron coquette."Um - it works.
If you think that Heinlein was sexist, please read Glory Road and tell me that Star was a wilting wallflower.Some say that Podkayne demonstrates a marvelous understanding of the teenage mindset.
A Girl's First Space Adventure12 February 2012 It is interesting that this is the third Heinlein book that I have read and a quick flick through some of the reviews I notice a lot of people carrying on about how outdated and sexist this book is. Look, come off it, not only was this book written in 1963, meaning that it was before our own 'enlightened' society in regards to sexual equality (and come on, while I am all for sexual equality, putting a completely unskilled woman into the role of dire
Look, come off it, not only was this book written in 1963, meaning that it was before our own 'enlightened' society in regards to sexual equality (and come on, while I am all for sexual equality, putting a completely unskilled woman into the role of director of a multinational company just so that the company can reach its quota of women on the board is just ridiculous), but the fact that the main character, who is a woman, is complaining through the book about the how glass ceiling that will make it very difficult for her to become a space pilot makes me think that there is more to this book that most people care to see.
Podkayne spends the entire book conforming to other people's ideas of how women should act.
This is a universe where all nurses are women and all officers are men, where everyone is heterosexual and gender-conforming — and Pod's teenaged rebellion against this system amounts to wearing a bit of makeup and imagining herself on the arms of handsome gentlemen, playing dumb and sitting pretty.And, I mean, I get it.
And then the moral of the book turns out to be: women should spend time cuddling their babies instead of getting jobs, otherwise their children will (almost) die or become psychopaths.
If Podkayne is Heinlein's most remarkable heroine, I'm glad I haven't read any of his other stuff because Podkayne of Mars is a wimpy, passive, airhead who lets the men in the story do all the thinking. I understand that social moires were different when this was written, but just because I understand that doesn't mean I have to like this book. The plot was all right, but I was too frustrated with the main character to enjoy the book.
I always thought that referenced a title or occupation, and for some reason I think it fits as a girl's name (the issue actually comes up in the book).A lot of the side comments are interesting and provide worldbuilding, such as Podkayne's dismissal of Earth as the human origin because of how rugged and trashed it is, or how she can't imagine an ocean of water, much less swimming in it without an environmental suit.
It's actually a significant idea, I think, as much as the separation of sex from pregnancy with birth control.I don't know how convincingly Podkayne is written as a girl, but her relationship with her brother feels realistic to me, even if her brother is a little too smart.
It's funny that I insist on remembering it the way Heinlein wrote which isn't the way it is published.
As I read it now, I can't help but think about my own children and my relationships with them.2015: The kids liked this one, but it didn't really resonate.
In four previous readings, I didn't miss this, but it didn't seem such a dominating part of the theme.2017: The kids liked this one so much we had a replay together.
A través de sus memorias, “más francas que modestas” (incluyendo sugerentes anotaciones de su hermanito), nos hablará de los suyos, sus deseos futuros a nivel profesional y sentimental, y del día a día , durante el transcurso de su viaje interplanetario con parte de su familia, lleno de líos y entuertos, experiencias aleccionadoras y giro inesperado de planes....Hija de Marte, empero de ser una obra destinada, y acertadamente (aunque recomendable para todo tipo de público), al público más joven, SIGUE LOS PRINCIPIOS DEL AUTOR EN SUS NARRACIONES: DIVERSIÓN A LA VEZ QUE CONOCIMIENTO CIENTÍFICO (aunque es un grado bastante bajo y básico), Y UNA FUERTE CARGA DE DISCURSO CRÍTICO, MEZCLADO DE MANERA INTELIGENTE, DE SOSLAYO, MEDIANTE LAS SITUACIONES DIARIAS DE LA PROTAGONISTA, SUS REFLEXIONES Y CONVERSACIONES CON OTROS.Redactado de manera FLUIDA, es una obra de AVENTURAS EN TONO MORDAZ, CON UNA COMICIDAD EN LO TOCANTE A LAS “SALIDAS” DE PODDY, DISTRAÍDA Y QUE NO DEJA A TÍTERE CON CABEZA.
But now the funnest thing about this old copy of Podkayne of Mars (Ace Science Fiction) is the misdirectional blurb on the back cover: "An interplanetary bombshell who rocked the constellations when she invaded the Venus Hilton and attacked the mighty mechanical men with a strange, overpowering blast of Sex Appeal."A good rule of thumb is never to re-read adolescent fiction.
But because of that blurb I had to re-read this volume to make sure it's safe for my eleven-year-old.Not to worry.
Although Podkayne is not very successful in this regard, you can tell that Heinlein is really interested.
good story.
one of the big paradoxes of our time is when the so-called pro-choice crowd demands that nobody be allowed to keep and bear arms, women included, who should could would ought to consider doing so, what with the need to make their way to the clinic.
heinlein, i'd hazard, is a proponent for the keeping and baring of...arms.
so it is mind-boggling that the so-called, the self-proclaimed progressives can get away with the boolsheet of the purest ray serene....and that women, "feminists" among them...men even, "feminists" among them...that they allow them to get away with the paradox.
i enjoyed this story.4-stars.
She doesn't believe for a second that human life actually started on Earth, after all the atmosphere is likely to give you hernias and heart trouble, but she still wants to see the place.Her parents can't take her as they are about to raise twins, but her Uncle Tom comes to the rescue.
'Podkayne of Mars' is written for teenagers, but a range of adult themes are introduced and discussed in a light yet non-patronizing way, such as politics, racism and individual responsibility.Uncle Tom offers all sorts of unfussy advice to his niece on just about any subject ("Don't commit suicide on an empty stomach, my dear; it's bad for the digestion"), most of it well worth imparting to either teenager or adult.
However, Podkayne then spends most of the book looking after babies and having repeated revelations that perhaps being a mother would be a better use of her time and skills.
In fact, she nearly gets killed trying to save an alien baby whose mother her brother justly slew.Additionally, Podkayne must be rescued out of every situation by her younger brother because she, the girl, is "not logical enough," she "deliberately manipulates" all the men around her by using her "distressed kitten face," and must be given lessons in the proper application of makeup (which lesson takes up half a chapter).
Heinlein like many of the grand masters of science fiction created some amazing pieces of work which have gone on to influence and colour modern society.
This is neither of them - I will admit that after reading many of his books in my early forays in to science fiction I have a loyalty to his work - this was an interesting read and rather like rocket ship Galilee - a fascinating window in to the world in which this story was written in as much as the story itself.
It has a female protagonist, but she is presented as shallow and stupid, constantly the butt of her younger brother's scorn and pranks.
RH is sometimes labeled a racist and sexist, but I don't see it.
The primary family is racially mixed, and the mother of the protagonist has a thriving independent career.
No one suggests to the title character that her ambition to be captain of a space-going vessel is an impossibility, although her attitudes toward men seem sexist and manipulative.
I'm enjoying revisiting his work as his books are offered at sale prices.
The less-than-stellar reviews on goodreads do not lie. RAH created an interesting world, and then in the last quarter of the book used it as a podium to talk about women caring for babies and simpering to men. Almost as if the book was written in two sittings, the latter from a much older and grumpier man.
A fun growing up theme with a martian girl named Podkayne adventures in a journey to earth
Up to this time, my reading had been focused more on the children’s classic versions of the works of Jules Verne and H.G.Wells.Podkayne of Mars is written as the journal/diary of a young woman from Mars at an unspecified date in the future.
The more recent probes sent mostly to Mars have been orbital missions for their planets of destination while some have landed remote rover robotic probes which have remained operational in many cases for far longer than their mission planning actually called for.Podkayne aka Poddy travels with her uncle, Tom, a special envoy from the Martian Republic to the Three Planets’ Summit, and her younger brother, Clark, a precocious genius.
Muy flojo Heinlein aquí asumiendo perspectiva femenina quizá para tumbar su imagen de faxa.Y encima llega el hijo de puta al final y mete un "la mujer madre lo que ha de hacer es quedarse en casa cuidando de la camada" (más o menos significa eso, si bien no son palabras literales) que, bueno, El Payo Juan Manuel te lo canta y te ríes porque sabes que luego lo compensa con otra sobrada para admitir que las xicas nos pasan el xoxo por la cara a los xicos de lo listas que son y lo bien que se escaquean del trabajo.
Finally comes the shocking and tragic ending.Well, it turns out that Heinlein's publishers didn't like this ending and convinced him to change it, but the Phoenix Pick reprint I read (published in 2015) restores his originally intended ending.There follows a letter from Heinlein to his agent, dated 1962, stating that his original ending was intended to show that it is all the mother's fault because she was "the highly successful career woman who wouldn't take time to raise her own kids." That aroused my rage and thinking back on the story, all the clues to that viewpoint were there.I will continue to read Heinlein just to see what else he does and to do my own study of a highly successful career man who held such views, to be aware of how he perpetrated such stuff in his fiction, to keep me aware of this poison as I live and read.
An interesting read with a twist at the end. Not exactly what I expected from a Heinlein "juvenile" novel.
Politics is just a name for the way we get things done ...
We dicker and compromise and everybody thinks he has received a raw deal, but somehow after a tedious amount of talk we come up with some jury-rigged way to do it without getting anybody's head bashed in.
But I think maybe it takes a man who has been shot at to appreciate how much better it is to fumble your way through a political compromise rather than have the top of your head blown off." He frowned and suddenly looked very old.
