https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/220970.Tripwire
This isn't a review, because I just started reading this book, but I couldn't help sharing my irritation.I like Lee Child's storytelling skills, and Jack Reacher is a fun character to read about.Unfortunately, his prose is like fingernails on a chalkboard.
Never heard of any such person," should be deleted from the page, burned, and flushed down the toilet.A few pages later, Reacher enjoys a "steak that hung off both sides of the plate at once."Is there any way for a steak to hang off both sides of a plate not at once?
To properly craft terse, tough-guy prose, Child needs a good editor.
Maybe that narrative device is something Child should employ more.The story:Greedy, evil, loan shark villain has a detective killed who had come in search of Reacher, who happened to be keeping a low profile as a shirtless bouncer in a strip club.
Through no fault of his own, and without looking for trouble, Reacher gets in trouble.3.
This time around we find Reacher doing some manual labor in the Keys, getting tanned and even more Hulk-like when an investigator comes looking for him.
In film parlance, this is usually a supporting actor or actress but can even be a scene stealing bit player with only a few lines.
Child’s characterization and dialogue are usually good and with Mrs. Stone, he outdid himself.Another fun outing and Reacher fans will enjoy.
I should think about this for a second longer.“What kind of book is this?” he asked a third time.It’s the kind of book that has somebody repeating questions a whole bunch of times while other characters ponder things so if you’re already irritated you should probably avoid it.Ex-military policeman Jack Reacher has been living in Key West where he’s earning a living digging swimming pools, and his idea of a good time is drinking a bunch of mineral water.
(They have been attacked by bad guys so it does make sense that Reacher doesn’t want her traveling alone.) This trip involves a whole lot of airline miles, and only gives them four hours in Honolulu before having to jump on another plane back to New York.
4.75/5There wasn’t as much action in this book as there was in the previous one, but it was full of suspense which helped move the story right along.
It kept me wondering and guessing almost up until the end.The author did it to me again!
On the one hand, I really wanted to know the truth after being kept in suspense, but on the other hand, I didn’t want to turn the next page because I was too afraid something very bad would happen to those characters.
Oh, my poor nerves!Although the ending wasn’t an earth-shattering surprise, I can tell that it was a very ingenious plot twist.
Tripwire is the third novel in the Jack Reacher series.
In fact, he has gone off the grid.Now what really makes Reacher someone special?
Reacher is living as a swimming pool digger and minding his own business, when a private detective comes looking for him.
Garber had been conducting an investigation into a MIA American soldier in Vietnam, and now Reacher and Jodie must continue.This book is escapist fiction at its very best!
A worthy adversary to our hero!My recommendation – if you want to while away some time with a action-packed thriller, then you can pick it up.
I'll be honest with you..I enjoy reading thriller books but I don't know how to write reviews for them so if you're looking for an extensive analysis of this book I'm sorry to disappoint you.I've read second half of the book in one sitting so it is suffice to say that it was very interesting. Not much action scenes in this one but it was filled with suspense and intriguing investigations with a very well executed plot twist.
This happened over and over again and probably added a good 100 pages to the book.My major issues start with how Child diminished the character of Jack Reacher in this book.
Issue two is that the story just seemed to plod along for no reason.
Issue three is that the story itself was absurd and there were a lot of open holes at the end of the book.
Now I understand that the Reacher novels require a suspension of disbelief when it comes to the villains and storylines, but this one was just beyond silly and, when I sat and reflected on the book after finishing it, it really made no sense.I'm going to give #4 a shot, but if the series continues the downward progression, then that will be my last.
It's probably because this plot follows more of a crime show storyline of detective work by Reacher and lady vs the previous books he was in situations without all the info or a way to investigate through normal channels.
The mystery is left to Reacher and Jodie by Garber, about a missing Vietnam soldier.
I think what I liked best about this book was the more usual format of doing detective work and plotting ahead what you're going to look up next vs reacting to a situation (how the other books were).
My somewhat lacklustre review follows:This could have been 4 stars, if not for the repetitive and excessively overwritten sections.Wow, the prose has improved a lot since books 1 and 2.
On Jodie's apartment wall, painting by Piet MondrianComposition with Red, Blue and Yellow (1930)Full size image I really like how Child presents and develops the character of Marilyn Stone.
Another strong female character !Reacher's gun (this book)Steyr GBFull size image Child still has a tendency to slip into excessive detail now and then.
Jodie calls a hotel, a new experience for Reacher.
Reacher has been in Florida when he's drawn into the "mystery" (no spoilers, sorry).
Once he's drawn into said mystery however events demand he leave, at once.
Oh yeah she's lovely...beautiful...described as "achingly beautiful".Get the picture?But that said the book itself takes off and the plot is an excellent one.
You get some multilayered thinking here and we leave a lot of the somewhat formulaic plotting that showed up in the last book in the series behind.
Reacher and his "achingly beautiful" co-protagonist have a mystery to solve, a puzzle to unravel and a wrong to right.Good book.
This is the third Jack Reacher novel by Lee Child.
My husband loves Jack Reacher.
After reading the first two in the series, I can see why the Reacher novels are so appealing to the male population.
As Jack and Garber's daughter start investigating Leon's case, they find themselves being followed, shot at and disturbed by the possibility that a former war vet presumed dead might have turned bad.This one is still really fast paced, but it's more plot driven than the previous two.
The action scenes didn't turn up nearly as often and the suspense was more intense as a result.
The main bad guy has a hook, that's about as scary as it gets here.Reacher is dragged across the country trying to help a long lost friend/daughter of his favourite boss from his army days.
I will read the next in the series hoping for a bit more of a story but I can guess there will be a bad guy who Reacher doesn't know at first then gets entangled with and defeats whilst bedding a gorgeous female (but not defeating the bad guy whilst bedding the female – just to clear that up).

Ok, so despite all the advice and my own thoughts , I went ahead and read another Jack Reacher, so that's 3 in just over 2 weeks. Did I find it boring and/or formulaic as I worried I might ? No, in fact I actually enjoyed this one the most of the 3 so far. A good story well written. Bring on the next, but maybe in a few weeks eh ???
The back story is much more believable, the reasons for Jack being just in the right place and time as well (beyond the initial 360 degree turn from not being interested to needing to avenge the death of the investigator) and the carry-over character of General Garber from the previous novel provides a nice piece of continuity.
The secondary characters all seem a little more rounded this time as well - Marilyn Stone being a classic example (although do we need to be continually reminded of the fact that she's not wearing any underwear?).
I read this a long time ago. This is second time was just as enjoyable. Things I forget. Regardless, it confirms why I love Jack Reacher.
Move over James Bond and all you other wannabe heroes, old Reacher is the real deal, and he's got your back.Having spent an inordinate amount of my reading years going back and forth between fluff fiction, non-fiction, thrillers, and history, it was a pleasure to stumble upon Lee Child's "Tripwire." I probably never would have found this series if it were not for all the television hype about the Tom Cruise screen version of Child's central character, Jack Reacher.
Typically unimaginative, the Cruise screen version of a multi-book series is entitled "Reacher." But, somehow, after reading Tripwire, I cannot fathom what the casting director of the movie was thinking when they cast Tom Cruise (5'7") as Jack Reacher (6'5")!
Child's book 'Tripwire' is an absolutely amazing read!! It seems each of his Jack Reacher novels is so unique all by itself; every time I read one, I think it can't get any better, and yet it does. Contrary to opinions by others about some of his books, I've loved every single one of them. I have nearly completed reading all that he's written, and that makes me sad because 'Reacher' is my hero.My husband and I also saw the movie 'Jack Reacher' in December and we both enjoyed it.
One of the best jack reacher stories going u get to hear a fair bit about his past the story is fast paced and gets u hooked really early on 5 out of 5 stars
Early Jack Reacher and it has some serious issues.The author is still learning about his character and Jack isn't fully formed. At one stage he begs someone for help. Jack Reacher never begged anybody for anything.Then he lets his girlfriend explain the plot to him. That's not the way it works. She asks questions and Jack explains stuff.Finally, Jack doesn't do the David Banner walk down a lonely road at the end. He always does that.
The story's basic concept may be a bit of a cliché, but Child has a lovely way of twisting it into something so much more interesting, especially with a character who understands fear and tucks it away as we get to observe from inside Reacher's mind, discover how he dissects a situation and plans ahead.
But not nearly as frustrated as Jack and Jodie were in the first part of the story!Child provides a good bit of backstory on Reacher and his relationship to the general and Jodie; with Jodie's thoughts about Reacher while we careen around corners and bash through doors on their hunt for the truth to save Jodie's life and bring peace to a patriotic, yet unhappy old couple.I love "watching" Jack in action.
"These boots were made for walking..." There's two things I've learnt about Jack Reacher;#1 You don't mess with Jack Reacher.#2 You don't mess with Jack Reacher.You'd think the villains would have some kind of handbook warning them not to mess with Jack Reacher. The handbook would go something like this;#1 Jack Reacher#2 Jack Bauer#3 George W Bush#4 The Brother's Grimm#5 The GhostbustersThis is the third book in the Jack Reacher series - Tripwire. There's two reason I'm being optimistic about t
Firstly I like a good dust up, secondly I hear the novels get better as the series progresses.
Things were going swimmingly until a private investigator starts asking about if they know where a Jack Reacher is.
He denies ever hearing of the guy, 10 minutes later the private investigator is dead and Jack takes it upon himself to find out who his employer was.
Things starts falling into place, Garber was investigating something and Jack takes it upon himself to finish his work - with the help of Garber's daughter (Jodie Garber) and soon to be love interest.
Δηλαδή, εντάξει, προσπαθώ να διαβάζω μια στο τόσο βιβλία σειρών που μου αρέσουν πολύ, έτσι ώστε να μην ξεμείνω, αλλά καμιά φορά το παρακάνω.
Τέλος πάντων, το συγκεκριμένο είναι το τρίτο βιβλίο της σειράς με ήρωα τον Τζακ Ρίτσερ και όγδοο που διαβάζω εγώ.Ο σκληροτράχηλος, μοναχικός και περιπλανώμενος Τζακ Ρίτσερ βρίσκεται στο Κη Γουέστ, άγνωστος μεταξύ αγνώστων, βγάζοντας τα προς το ζην σκάβοντας πισίνες.
Πρόκειται για ένα βιβλίο που σίγουρα θα αφήσει ικανοποιημένους και χορτασμένους τόσο τους λάτρεις της σειράς, όσο και γενικά τους λάτρεις των θρίλερ.
For me, this kind of book is always about plot.
The characters are unbelievable, clichéd, and much of the dialogue is laughably dumb.
But………..the action, the “mystery,” is completely compelling.
I had to finish, I had to get to the center of the mystery, and so I read it in something like three days.
Pure entertainment of the shallowest kind.
I enjoyed it.I cannot help but compare Jack Reacher to Henning Mankell’s Detective Wallender.
I love Wallender because he’s overweight, alcoholic, and suffers from depression.
In contrast, Child’s protagonist is a rather unbelievable six foot five of tanned lean muscle mass.
Another exciting thriller in the Jack Reacher series. Action packed and suspenseful throughout. A guy disappears in Vietnam and is classified as MIA and Reacher becomes involved in an investigation with what really happened to him.
At first Child's insisting on describing everything and everyone in the scenes was nice but then I'm just like..."I don't fucking care about what brand of water they're drinking or every minute detail of the decor the room they're in." That kind of detail works for fantasy or historical epics but this kind of book needs to be taut and lean and deadly quick.
It's weird, because Child seems to obsessively faun over how buff and fit Reacher is but his book is fucking bloated and lethargic.The "twist" at the heart of the mystery was obvious from like page 20.
I looked back at my reviews of the first two books in the series, and realize that I have felt this way from the start, but I so wanted to join the fan club of this series that I tried again.
Reacher is digging pools in Key West, when strangers show up looking for him.
I slogged through to the end, and the description of Reacher's well defined pecs acting like three inches of Kevlar had my eyes rolling so far back that I almost harmed myself.
Jack is approached by a stranger asking if knows a Jack Reacher.
Jack has to know what's going on and decided to go to New York.
Why New York?
because the stranger had a New York accent.
It turns out the the daughter (Jodie) was the one looking for Jack.
Jack is put on same page as Jodie and between them they start to unravel a secret the army has been covering up for nearly 30 years.
Bare in mind that the book is nearly 20 years old now and was probably trend setting back then.
Thank you, Lee Child, for redeeming yourself and Jack Reacher in this book!
While I'm normally not a fan of anything relating to the Vietnam War, I think this novel flashbacked to it tastefully and it was well-written.
Granted, the flashbacks were filled with horrifying deaths and injuries but I'm pretty sure there are people who will confirm that sort of stuff happened all the time there.Child outdid himself with the bad guy this time around.
I should have gotten to this book earlier - I'm thrilled I finally know how Reacher got the bullet wound in his chest AND got to know Jodie a little more.
