https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3845356-ripley-under-ground
Tom Ripley, well-met in The Talented Mr. Ripley, is now a solid, happily (?) married man, solidly in possession of his wife's fortune, and a partner in an art firm.An art *forgery* firm.Yeah, that's Ripley.
And Ripley himself is a little more squeamish this time, which frankly made a lot of sense to me as Tom now has a wife and an art collection to defend against intruders like the forger, the copper, and the gallery owners.I wonder if Highsmith thought this book was the equal of the first one...I recommend this as a delightful fall-fire-with-scotch read.
This novel reminds me a lot of Peter Carey's novel My Life as a Fake and obviously Gaddis' The Recognitions.
It also makes me want to explore deeper into the life of Wolfgang Beltrracchi, but that will have to be another day.
These novels all explore ideas/themes of art, authenticity, fakery, artistic isolation and basic counterfeits of all forms.
I do love how fascinated some writers become with the idea of fakes, forgery, doppelgängers, etc.
There is: Nabokov, Highsmith, Doestoevsky, Carey, Gaddis, etc.
I'd love to find the Urtext on forgery; the first fictional exploration.
He wants so much, and over the course of the book he discovers what he can do to get it.
You read it because you liked the first one and you want to see Ripley up to his old game.
Highsmith checks the Ripley boxes: he impersonates someone, he murders someone, there's confusion not only over who murdered but who's even been murdered (the Ripley books are like the Mission: Impossible movies for murder), Ripley is audacious and pretentious, as always.
If you liked the first book you should certainly go ahead and read this; if you didn't you certainly shouldn't.
I knew going into this that the later Ripley novels don't live up to the first one, but I was still curious anyway.
And it was certainly true that a lot of those elements that made the first novel so enjoyable - Tom's very believable rationalizations of his actions, the atmosphere and the tightrope-like intensity of the action - were largely missing from this book.
Tom has settled down in France with a French wife and leads a life largely of leisure with a few illegal enterprises on the side.
I enjoyed this more than the first book - until the ending. The story moves along rapidly with Ripley dodges various and increasing number challenges to protect an art scam. What I did not get was the acceptance of the characters when Ripley admits to being a murderer.
Sociopath Tom Ripley lives the life of luxury in a beautiful villa in France, forty miles outside of Paris; he is an amateur painter and has an appreciation for fine arts, he finds pleasure working in the garden, he has a cellar full vintage wine, he reads, he travels back and forth across Europe…and he’s a killer.
He has a housekeeper and a beautiful wife who little by little comes to suspect that her husband has been living on the dark side.
But does she care?
Amorality has never been this much fun.
This is a worthy follow-up to The Talented Mr. Ripley.
This book lacks the intensive character-driven analysis of the first Ripley (from which the plot derives), and is far more plot-driven and somewhat formulaic. It seems that after 15 years, she decided to revive her career by doing another Ripley, and then had to fish around for a plotline. There is nothing terribly wrong with the book - she's an expert craftswoman -- but it's a bit trivial (as a result). Still, the events of #2 are prelude, in part, to #3.
Ripley Under Ground (1971) is set in the village of Villeperce a short distance from Paris, where Tom Ripley, some three years on from his murderous and larcenous activities in Italy, enjoys a leisurely existence of rural bliss at Belle Ombre, the pleasant residence he shares with his beautiful, rich, French wife Heloise and their devoted housekeeper Madame Annette.
I enjoyed reading the book for Highsmith’s robust prose, although I wasn’t really convinced by the caper or its denouement.
Loved the first one. This was incredibly disappointing unfortunately. If I had to read the word Derwatt one more time I would've thrown the book across the room.
Tom Ripley returns as the audacious crook now living the good life in France, married to a rich & beautiful girl.
There is reference to his past life as Dickie Greenleaf’s friend but the story starts with the dust having more or less settled on that affair.
It is indeed a forgery, for Derwatt has long been dead and all his paintings are the works of a minor painter – which is the basis of the scam architected by Ripley & his friends, which includes the guilt-ridden painter Bernard Tufts.
This was my first Ripley book and not having read the first one made no difference.
Ripley is now found living in complete luxury in a French villa with his chic French wife, the gorgeous, vacuous Heloise (ooh la-la), and spends his time collecting and creating art.
He is also involved in a few underhand schemes to make additional income for himself, one of which is a business venture concerned with forged works of a popular artist whose death was covered up to continue the revenue (for him and a couple of others in London, also in on the scam).
His veneer was only just beginning to crack at the end of this book so I will definitely be proceeding with the series into the third Ripley novel.
I'm excited, book 2 lived up to the high expectation I had after finishing The Talented Mr Ripley.
And there are another 3 to read in the Ripley series, and loads more Patricia Highsmith novels!
Glad I picked up on these, thanks to Waterstones who had a nice display in their Canary Wharf shop.I think what I'm enjoying most about Tom Ripley's adventures is the style that Highsmith uses.
At the sheer absurdity of the situations Ripley finds himself in and just the fact that he keeps getting away with it.
Despite the fact he's murdered a number of people now, I can't help liking him.
it's late, I'm off to sleep.... I'm disappointed at how this book turned out. I enjoyed book 1, not going to continue this series. But I still love author Highsmith. Hopefully my next book from her won't disappoint.
("A lot can happen to a poor man, when he suddenly becomes rich," Tom remarks early on, in a sign of things to come.) We also get plenty of gallows humor and a macabre ending inspired by the well-known line from Shakespeare: "The pound of flesh which I demand of him / Is dearly bought, 'tis mine, and I will have it..."Perhaps more importantly, the novel continues Highsmith's portrait of Tom's double (homosexual) life: we're told he literally turns green on his wedding day; later, he reacts with disgust when he sees two flies copulating, and sets them on fire; we learn he has "a friend" he stays with when he goes to Paris "for business;" he's fascinated by some graffiti in the London Underground reading I LOVE BEING HERMAPHRODITE; etc.As in the first novel, Tom's crimes don't really make sense unless you're in on the joke: if you approach Ripley Under Ground as a straightforward thriller about art forgery, you'll probably find the whole thing a little flat.
In the last book, when Ripley murdered it was sort of a desperate need.
This book has a calm cool collected Ripley who murders for convenience.
This Ripley has like six best friends who do not irritate him at all.The last book, Ripley was either asexual or homosexual and gets possessive and jealous of Dickie to the point he murders him.
Yet I'm this novel, he's married to a woman.
He never describes people in a loathing way (as he did in the first book of almost any person he met or had known).My point is, this character is not Ripley.
I read the Talented Mr Ripley a number of years ago and can't recall too much about it (plus a lot of what I remember has been corrupted by the film).
However, I liked Highsmith's style and gave Ripley another shot.We find Tom a few years older, happily married to a French girl, living the high life in the French countryside.
Ripley really is a complex character and it makes for entertaining reading.
Overall, an entertaining thriller with an enigmatic main character and well worth a read.
Tom Ripley is as fascinating as Lisbeth Salander.
Despite his murders I don’t think Ripley is a cold blood killer.
He doesn’t like to kill but when it’s strictly necessary he is the best person to do it and he won’t hesitate.
Have you ever known a liar as good as Ripley?
Ripley is the perfect host and he will do everything for his guests to understand his point of view.
One thing is certain: he will have to kill again.
an excellent addition to Highsmith's earlier genre defining work.
It's like the phrase "the suspense is killing me" was invented for the Tom Ripley books because right from the first page the suspense is applied.
First you're wondering what Tom is going to do, then how he's going to get away with it, then why he didn't avoid doing something so unspeakable dangerous and daring yet unnecessary before fearing his capture amid the fallout of the best laid plans.
ripley's game is next and it must be good after having had more movie adaptations than all of the others.
Psychopath Tom Ripley is enjoying his quiet life in the French countryside with his wife Helene, gardening, painting, reading, and being catered to by their housekeeper. When Tom’s income from an art forgery scheme is threatened, though, he returns to his old ways. He is totally unpredictable. But what Tom would do in an era of DNA testing I don’t know — come up with another scheme, I guess.
La vita si complica per Ripley e la cosa sembra piacergli, tra alti e bassi :)Come sempre si vive la sua avventura criminale con passione, temendo che venga scoperto, che fallisca.Solo dopo ti rendi conto che stai parteggiando per un assassino truffatore amorale.Inferiore al capolavoro "Il talento di mr Ripley", ma comunque una bella appassionate lettura, di quelle da cui proprio non ti puoi staccare.Ora attacco il terzo (credo l'amico americano)
It had been a curious murder.that's what tom ripley thinks to himself at one point in this novel, with the strange cool detachment that marks him as a character.
the ripley books are a bit like dexter (a show i follow sporadically, although i have so far never read the books) in that you follow the unwinding of the plot through the eyes of a protagonist who is a cold-blooded murderer.
instead of emotional turmoil, we get paranoia; instead of crises of action, we get nothing but action - an instant and almost automatic reflex to always, always, always protect one person and one person only: tom ripley.
That leaves Mr. Ripley with only one course of action, but his solution gets a little complicated.This is the second novel in Patricia Highsmith's Ripliad, a series of five novels featuring the casual murderer Tom Ripley.
As well, Ripley's wife, Heloise, is a little too thinly presented to make her acceptance of his actions believable.It's too bad Highsmith made these choices as she has one of the best narrative voices for wide audiences.
I often hold her up as an example of what I expect at a minimum from a decent writer.For those who do decide to read Highsmith's Tom Ripley novels, read this one before Ripley Under Water, as that one is a sequel-of-sorts to this one.
My friend Krista suggested to keep going with the series and I would really appreciate the character and the writing.
(She introduced me to one of my top three books of all time "The Scold's Bridle" by Minette Walters.)At any rate after reading the haviness that was "origin of species", I needed a well written serial killer, murder mystery type story.
Well, let's just say I am not sorry...I realized the writing is top notch, the character as base and vile as any serial killer out there (although not as lovable as Dexter) and yet human in his own way.
Patricia Highsmith wrote Ripley Under Ground 15 years after the first novel, but Ripley has only aged five or six years since the events of The Talented Mr. Ripley.
He's still involved in exclusively shady businesses, however, including an art forging scheme that drives the plot of the novel.The use of forgeries, in particular Ripley's musings about what constitutes a "real" work of art, is a great way for Highsmith to continue her exploration of identity and impersonation.
There is duplicity and dissembling on nearly every page of Ripley Under Ground, and the ending, which is ambiguous, was great.
As much as I loved The Talented Mr. Ripley, I was disappointed in this follow up.
Other reviewers have speculated that Highsmith returned to Ripley 15 years after the first book because she knew it would be a money-maker.
But this book, while still well written and better than the average thriller, did not deliver what I expected.
Gone is the undercurrent of suppressed homosexuality, which in my opinion made Ripley a more complex character, and the novel itself risky for its day.
That isn't the Ripley I expected.
And while he is still a cold-blooded killer, I miss the internal struggles he experienced in Talented Mr. Ripley.

Disappointing.
I don't get this story.
I kept waiting for things to fall into place and tie together.
Ripley has definitely evolved.
He seems more the confident fat cat in this book.
But his relationship with Bernanrd, which is at the heart of the story, is inexplicable to me.
In this story I was struck by how far we have come in telecommunications - in the book, when calling overseas you would request a line, then wait upwards of 30 minutes to be connected.
My tepid feelings for the story, however, will not keep me from reading the rest of the series.
Continuing my journey through Highsmith's body of work, I took on the second of her Tom Ripley stories.
Highsmith wrote this 15 years after the first book but only six years seem to have elapsed in "Ripley time" (and she mentions a poster for Zeffirelli's Romeo and Juliet which was released in '68 I believe), so the chronology bothered me slightly.
Ripley's character, while still a charming sociopath, seemed less compelling this time around and none of the other characters came fully to life for me.
The details of life in a small town in France were nicely drawn - toilets in the garden, the meals etc.

3.5 starsMore plot-based than the The Talented Mr. Ripley, which was a very unique character study I thoroughly enjoyed. The caliber of this sequel is definitely lower, but I did enjoy its fast-paced story line and, at times, absurd humor (view spoiler)[(Tom's tranquil calmness throughout almost being killed was absolutely wild) (hide spoiler)], so I can't call it a complete failure.
