https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25365.Out
After all that build-up it seems like a come-down to say that this is basically a story about four thirtyish, lower-class or lower-middle class Japanese women who work night-shift filling box-lunches in a factory.
The plot builds from two directions: the police are suspicious and start nosing around, and the Japanese underworld, the mafia-like yakuzas, take an interest and offer the women, shall we say, additional business opportunities.
In addition to the socio-economic class focus of the book, we learn a lot about Chinese prostitutes and ethnic Japanese-Brazilian laborers who are some of the very few immigrants groups that have been allowed into insular (pun intended) Japan, one of the most ethnically isolated societies in the world.
Women who have been brought together to resist common enemies - the cruel realities of a hostile world which thwarts their attempts at self determination at every turn.
The reality of the back-breaking night shift at the boxed lunch factory that whittles away at their will to live.
Fear of venturing so close to the edge of madness that oblivion may seem a welcome prospect in place of retaining memories.
Fear of breaking free.And yet Masako musters up a stony indifference, makes unwavering courage and resourcefulness her weapons of choice.
In Natsuo Kirino's wonderful crime novel, Out, a sharp social commentary on Japan's patriarchal society and the situation for women and foreigners is tangled up with loan sharks, gambling, the yakuza and murder.Masako works in a bento (boxed-lunch) factory on the night shift with her workmates Yoshi, Kuniko and Yayoi.
(p.179)As far as the social commentary aspect goes, it's a biting, unglamorous look at Japanese society, and also a revealing study of the plight of the impoverished, exhausted women like Yoshi, the greedy, superficial consumers like Kuniko, the intelligent, hard-working but discriminated and underpaid "office girls" like Masako had been; and the victimised housewives like Yayoi.
What a disappointing ending!
At first, I was absolutely entralled by the characters and their various relationships.
The first 3/4ths of the book are filled with so much texture - it felt like I was running my hands through a fabric store.
Most intriguing are the female-female relationships ranging from trust to need to fear.
How I hated Kuniko!
How I rooted for Masako!And then, this whole S&M dark and violent erotic stuff comes out, which threw the entire book in downward-spiral away from nuance and substance to blatant sex and desire.
I thought Masako was stronger than the Stockholm syndrome!
Women in Japan, where the book is set, are supposed to do all the housework, their outside job, and take care of all the members of the household, oh wait, that's just like the US.
This is the underbelly of Japan in the 1990s, but like I said it could be any country.
I felt sorry for the women, especially Yoshie who had a disabled mother-in-law, 2 ungrateful daughters, a dead husband, no money, a crappy job and a teeny tiny house to take care of them in.This book is only for the stout-hearted as there are descriptions of 2 beyond brutal rapes and dismemberment of corpses.
Women have it tough, all over the world, but now I know they have it tough in Japan, too.
If this book is to be believed, Japanese women are surrounded by chauvinistic, sadistic a-holes, cruelly remote ghosts, or losers who spend all their money with a nasty smirk.
Also, these poor Japanese women are "done" by "middle age".
Our protagonist, a strong, intelligent lady of 43, is repeatedly described as being too old for men to notice, for being spry for her age.
WTF, Japanese men?
It made me so grumpy, I can't be bothered to figure out what she was trying to say about men and women.
Part of the wonder of reading, for me, is discovery, and I want you to be able to discover this book for yourselves.
I decide what to read based on friend reviews/recommendations and, yes, the absolutely risky business of buying media based on pretty packaging.
A book of this length would normally take me two or three days to read.
Bring your thinking caps.In summation: I want everyone to read this, even if the book will not be for everyone.
Mainly because I want to hear what you folks think about the book as a whole.
Highly recommended.Final Judgment: A bleak beauty.

good god this is creepy. so so interesting but not a perfect book. after more though, i’m going to give it 4 stars :)tw: rape, assault, violence
I seem to be fascinated by every Japanese crime-thriller I read.
Japanese books of these genres are darker, creepier and more thrilling than everything else.
There are lot of characters but it is centered around, as the blurb says, ringleader, forty three year old Masako Kotari, one hell of a woman.
This is a character driven, spooky page turner.
I keep hesitating between 1 and 2 stars... I'm going to be generous and say "it was ok" and it was entertaining enough that I kept reading till the end. This is just my opinion, but I found "Out" to be poorly written and poorly constructed. Most characters and their reactions weren't credible at all, and the story completely lack of suspense or tension. It was more laughable than gripping.Not my kind of book at all.
Out was a solid 4 star read for me. The book centers around a group of women that work together in a factory-one kills her husband and the others assist her in getting rid of his body. Out was a complex story that is well-written; the only part that was disappointing was the ending (way too graphic for my liking). Recommended to mature/adult readers.
This is a great book about a group of late shift female co-workers at a boxed lunch factory. It is extremely effective in portraying the desperation in their day to day lives and shows how even the most gruesome of deeds can become just another yucky job if the pay is good enough. It's so violent that, at times, it's almost funny and still very sad and frighteningly realistic as well. This was one of those impossible to put down books but it isn't for the faint of heart as it gets quite grisly.
Can you say - gruesome and violent?
The book blurb tells you - a woman kills her husband and then asks her coworkers for help after the fact.
I felt like I got to know the stories of the wife and her coworkers well enough.
I also felt their stories were were well told.
Sometimes the story felt a bit slow to me but not in a slogging kind of way, just slow.
It is definitely NOT for the faint of heart because as I mentioned before, quite gruesome and violent.
Some reviewers mentioned they did not like the ending.
This book is full of amazingly WRONG situations and I thought it was amazing.HOWEVER...I may have thought it was amazing because I have lived in Japan for nearly three years and I felt like I could identify with the characters.
I picked up on cultural subtleties that made me laugh and made me cringe.
I rolled my eyes at Japanese women being Japanese women in the book and I cheered when they broke free from that mould - even though breaking free meant that they were ostracized from society and thought of as weird.If you decide to read this book, take everything in it with a grain of salt and try to imagine it from a Japanese point of view.
It will completely alter the experience.
Purtroppo ce ne rendiamo conto solo quando, improvvisamente, per un evento casuale, siamo costretti a voltarci indietro e a fare il bilancio della nostra vita.In questo romanzo la scrittrice è bravissima nella caratterizzazione delle quattro donne protagoniste, che sono assolutamente distanti in termini di individualità, carattere, determinazione, aspettative e modo di fare, ma che condividono l'avventura narrata e l'incapacità di costruire e migliorare il loro stato.La loro è una vita grigia, fatta di affetti familiari inconsistenti, di un lavoro durissimo, in perenne ricerca di soldi e con soddisfazioni ridotte al lumicino.
It's not much of a life but they work well as a team and they always snatch the best part of the conveyor belt; the easiest jobs, if you will.These four unassuming women are the heroines of Natsuo Kirino's novel OUT, winner of Japan's top mystery prize and a 300,000 copies bestseller.When you first begin reading this 500 page book, it seems a little slow - telling the tale of the charmless lives of these industrial monkeys as they fill their hours chucking ingredients into boxed lunches.
It makes you drink two pots of coffee and then locks you in a walk-in freezer.I often cringe at how the USA is portrayed in movies and television shows for international audiences, but I wonder what the Japanese think of their media representation: orderly, polite, prosperous, neat, cute.Out: this is not that Japan.
Think shit jobs, crappy housing, festering domestic strife, and urban depression.
Ideally, it envelopes.Super-ideally, it also spawns from within, like the need to pee as temperatures descend.But the unpleasantries that the world of this novel speaks to its protagonists are no mere chorus; they blend and fuse to form a unified malaise.
During my embarrassingly long mystery-novel obsession, I’ve pinpointed my favorite kind quite precisely – cerebral social comedies, preferably written by British women between 1915 and ~1965, with levels of gore not to exceed your occasional poisoned crumpet.
What often bugs me about noir-mystery gore, though, is that, rather than coming off as symptomatic of a rotten society, it just seems kind of gratuitous.
Ugh. Not so much.My biggest bento-box beef with the book was that the integration of the multiple perspectives was occasionally a bit clunky, especially when Kirino hit rewind and replayed the same scene from another point of view.
Whodunit is a pretty, young wife and mother of two named Yayoi who is fed up with her husband Kenji’s philandering ways, and decides to strangle him one night in an uncharacteristic moment of rage.
But while the two are butchering their first ever dead body in Masako’s bathroom, the fourth friend in their factory clique gets a peek through the window, and Kuniko is enlisted to help with the disposal of the pieces with an offer of money to keep her from blabbing.
É com este acontecimento trágico que Natsuo Kirino nos envolve admiravelmente, no submundo sombrio e misterioso de uma grande metrópole como a cidade de Tóquio, onde estas quatro mulheres, todas diferentes, vão criando ligações intensas e ambíguas entre si, e onde surgem personagens masculinas enigmáticas, com destaque para Satake, um homem implacável, dominado pelos seus fantasmas e que num universo distorcido, passa de predador a presa, num desfecho sangrento e inesperado.
“Out – Uma Saída” é um livro brilhante, onde a construção das sub-tramas do enredo é tão linear e eficiente, com um desenvolvimento gradual do suspense, que nos mantém sempre numa expectativa inimaginável, onde mulheres aparentemente “normais” e indefesas se revelam capazes de praticar as maiores atrocidades, num contexto limite do comportamento humano.
Las 4 mujeres se ven involucradas de una u otra forma y terminan siguiendo las ordenes de Masako.
Al fin y al cabo como una de las protagonistas se lleva el premio a la mas tonta e insoportable de la novela, las terminan descubriendo.
Su instinto asesino vuelve a surgir después de mucho tiempo y va a por las mujeres buscando venganza.La verdad es que pensé que la historia iba a ser mas emocionante.
El libro es lento que te mueres, recién al 60, 70% empieza a moverse un poco la trama, pero no es la gran cosa.

It took me much longer than originally anticipated to finish reading Out. On paper, this book has everything I love: dark humour, murder, suspense, a Japanese setting.
Unfortunately though, this wasn't the standout read I was hoping for, but one with many peaks and troughs.The initial storyline drew me in: a woman who is abused by her husband ends up killing them, then enlists the help of her night shift co-workers to help her dispose of the body.
And it's probably a combination of things - the fact that the relationship between the women is clunky, as is their dialogue; the fact that people (readers) think that anytime a female protagonist commits violent acts in literature, it immediately is labeled as feminist; the fact that there were moments that bordered on ridiculous, and not in a good way, and I couldn't decide if it was intentional or not.It's a fine enough story, and should have been interesting: Four women who have become somewhat-friends working the night shift at a factory making boxed lunches in Tokyo, all of them stuck in the routines of their craptastic lives, until one of them snaps - and rightly so.
One of them kills her husband and another steps up to help her get rid of the body.Kirino has this particular ability to create relationships between women that are at once simple and profoundly complex.
She has no obvious reason for helping Yayoi, who murders her husband after he throws away their savings on gambling and women.
There is Satake, the casino owner who is accused of killing the husband because of prior records which include murder of a woman – he swears revenge on these women, Masako in particular and the story takes another turn.
Loved the characters and how developed they were—everyone is some level of messed up, found the setting very interesting to read about, the story kept me wanting to know more even though the pacing had some weird dips here and there, but not sure I'm sold on the culmination/ending.
In case you're sensitive to that kind of thing, there is some seriously graphic stuff in here on several occasions, so you've been warned.
Overall, would definitely recommend to people who want to read a grim and occasionally gruesome character-driven crime novel.

Read this book for the scene in the bento factory alone.
Just do, and you'll never again eat a bento in Japan without thinking of it!
This is the side of Japan the Japanese media never show!
The Japanophiles with their obsession with tea ceremony, flower arrangement, anime, manga, samurai, ninja, clothing...
this is yet another face of Japan and Natsuo Kirino does it wonderfully.
Wage is low in a country that has some of the highest living standard costs in the world.
The economy isn't kind to its service sector and it shows with each step.
Yakuza, gambling, hostesses, familial obligations...
Aslında tarz olarak pek tercihim olmasa da bir gerilim filmi izler gibi elimden bırakamadan okudum. gerçekten çok başarılı. yazar önce taşları tek tek koyuyor sonra onları bi güzel karıştırıp önünüze atıyor. sonra o hengameden hepsini öyle bir çekip tek tek diziyor ki bu sihir gösterisini ağzı açık izliyor insan ve tabi adamların yapamadığını kadınların başarması da feminizm damarlarını şımartmıyor değil :) tavsiye edilir, denemeye değer bi gerilim :)
