https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1662201.Miss_Pinkerton
I'm still going to add this to my favorites shelf, because even though the last story left me sitting in a cloud of gloom, the other three were so good!
I think the things I didn't like about the last one were, it was written in a different era and hence her characters began reflecting the harder social uppers, and two, the ending, It just felt off.
The two short stories and first novel were fabulous as I have found her novels to usually be-isn't that a high compliment when you write books about murders?
I loved the peek into what a case nurses's life was like back in the early nineteen hundreds.
Really strong characters and stories! This is a wonderful compilation of two novel length stories and two short stories by a very strong writer. Mary Roberts Rinehart has created a nurse detective with brains, good instincts and great deductive powers and these stories are timeless classics about how a nurse can be situated within a family and find out all sorts of things. Wonderful reading!
Hilda Adams, a nurse, is hired by Detective Patton to work undercover for him and learn information that the police can’t obtain.
“Locked Doors” is an eerie tale where Miss Adams is hired to watch 2 small boys in a house with locked doors throughout.
“Miss Pinkerton” is the third entry in the book and a nickname Detective Patton has given to Miss Adams.
Next, the well known matriarch of a wealthy family in “ Haunted Lady” is sure someone is trying to scare her with the rats and bats that are getting into her sealed bedroom.
There is no mystery as to why Ms Rinehart is classed with Dame Agatha, she clearly deserves it! This is illustrated once again with 'Miss Pinkerton'. The humor is subtle, the characters interesting in and of themselves, and the plot draws you in and simply won't let go. The main character, Miss Adams, aka Miss Pinkerton, is a no nonsense nurse, smart and with a subtle sense of humor of her own, and a great deal of compassion for those around her. In short, this period piece sets a standard that few can reach.Bravo, Ms Rinehart, bravo!!!
It is always Inspector Patton who calls her Miss Pinkerton, it is his nickname for her, we know that her name is actually Hilda Adams.
At the beginning of our novel Miss Adams is sent by Inspector Patton to the home of Juliet Mitchell.
She had sent him to school and college, but he did no good at either, now he was home, sometimes working at whatever he could find, but mostly loafing.When Miss Adams arrives at the house there is a police car outside and when she enters Inspector Patton and a few uniformed officers are there, along with the doctor and the medical examiner.
So Miss Adams is there for two reasons, to care for Miss Juliet and to discover how Herbert Wynne really died, suicide, accident or murder.
Before anyone starts to sigh and grumble about having two Mary Roberts Rinehart reviews in a row, I'll let you know there is one more coming this week as well.
Despite her lack of police training, Hilda has a keen eye to see underneath the layers of red herrings and the personal facades of those she is around.This particular mystery that Hilda finds herself involved with is one that I think Mary Roberts Rinehart is brilliant at telling.
It's the type of mystery that Rinehart is at her best, and I love every second of it.
It is always a delight to revisit Mary Roberts Rinehart, In this little volume there are two short stories and two novels.
The short stories are The Buckled Bag and Locked Doors.
The novels are Miss Pinkerton and Haunted Lady.
Her nurse detective is Hilda Adams who is nicknamed Miss Pinkerton by the police inspector who hires her to work for him on difficult cases involving the wealthy or the once wealthy.
There is always a murder to solve much like the Agatha Christie stories.
A nurse herself, Rinehart is very competent in plot, pace, story and character development.
Great story full of twists and turns and many, many suspects.
Her personality wasn't loud or overbearing, and it was a little difficult to gauge her feelings sometimes.
I suspected an interest between her and the Inspector which wasn't put into definite words until the end, and I was so happy to see that part.
I'm not sure if there are more books with the same characters, but I definitely want to read them if there are.The biggest drawback was the author's heavy hand with foreshadowing.
I really like her stories...This volume contained two shorts and two full length stores....She wrote very well...her mysteries are rather involved, but are more familiar--less police/detective jargon...she's a nurse that works with the Inspector to observe and solve crimes, so the goings-ons are more common, everyday occurrences that are quite readable and easy to follow...and she keeps you interested by using the last sentence of each chapter as a "teaser" for whats to come....
Urgh. The story itself was good but the narrator is just too dramatic. If every chapter starts with “and I had no idea the horrors in store for me”, it’s easy to just get annoyed. Plus she bills herself as no nonsense but it literally took serious effort to finish this tiny book because she is such so irritatingly woebegone.
Nothing but fun in this dated but delightful mystery by one of the genre's best golden age writers. Form factor may have topped my review favorably: reading a 1958 printing 35-cent Dell paperback made me feel like a kid again boosting books from my grandmother's bookshelves.
2 novels and 2 short stories--entertaining
Since I belong to the Pittsburgh chapter of Sisters in Crime, I figured it was time to read a book by the author for whom the chapter is named: Mary Roberts Rinehart.
In a word: we don't write them like this anymore (Although Duncan Simpson's style is very close).
Written in 1932, the story features nurse Miss Pinkerton and plunges you directly into an already existing relationship she has working "undercover" with the police department.
As a whodunit, the story keeps you guessing until the end.
The writing is tight and I sure like the retro attitude toward no cursing--how refreshing.

Solid Mystery from Marey Roberts Rinehart.
Miss Pinkerton is a nurse who is called in to look after old Mrs Mitchell after her dissolute nephew commits suicide.
Or is it suicide?
The Inspector has his doubts, that's why he has called in Miss Pinkerton- to be his eyes and ears on the inside of the Mitchell mansion.Miss Pinkerton is an interesting literary creation .
She provides input of her own and solves the crime together with Inspector Patton- but she is also the heroine in potential danger, while the police are offstage.A very enjoyable story from one of the earliest female mystery writers
This novel introduced Hilda Adams, the Miss Pinkerton of the title. However, Rinehart wrote only a few books in the series and didn't write the last one until the 1950s. Nevertheless, her mysteries are groundbreaking in many ways. The cliche of "the butler did it" arose from a Rinehart novel, although she didn't use that phrase exactly. She excelled at the locked room mystery. And, one of her characters served as one of the inspirations for Bob Kane to create Batman. Not bad for the "American Agatha Christie."
Miss Pinkerton continues the adventures of visiting nurse Hilda Adams who also performs sleuthing on behalf of a police inspector when she is on a case where a crime has been committed--albeit she refuses to sleuth for money. She has principles of right and wrong which include not revealing everything she learns to the police, but she does solve the case and wins the affections of the inspector(view spoiler)[--which she does not either accept or refuse (hide spoiler)].
This is a set of two short stories and two longer stories. Ms. Rinehart wrote them in the early-mid 1900's. The writing was well-done, the mysteries were suspenseful, and I loved Miss Pinkerton's character. I highly recommend this one!
I've read this book many times. Love it.
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
Another book featuring the witty nurse detective Helen Adams.
read SOMETIME in 2008; don't remember the plot so gave no rating
I really like reading about crime detection in a completely different era than today. The use of foreshadowing was rather onerous, and most of the foreshadowing failed to have a cohesive object.
A nurse works undercover to find out what's happening
What wonderful stories! They don't write them like this anymore. I found this book while browsing the shelves of my local library and enjoyed the tales fully!
I have found a new author! I love this old nurse! she sharpens needles, breaks vials to mix med.....just an RN's dream!
Mary Roberts Rinehart is one of my all-time favorite mystery writers. And this is my favorite of her books.
What's not to like about Miss Pinkerton? She is the precursor to Christie's Miss Marple, and like the divine Miss M., she packs a powerful punch to lawbreakers. Great fun.
The setting for this mystery was very different from other mysteries that I have read. I enjoyed this period piece very much.
I enjoyed the mystery and the old-fashion narrative, but I had a few problems with the solution of the mystery. And this is a case of the heroine taking some stupid risks for little reward.
