https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2595138-the-gargoyle
“All history is just one man trying to take something away from another man, and usually it doesn't really belong to either of them.”  3 1/2 stars. Very nearly 4 but the strong start peters out a little, with the second half of the book losing momentum (I got to a point where I was reading just to finish).The Gargoyle's prose bursts onto the pages in a blazing sea of fire. The book opens with detailed description of the accident that disfigures the unnamed narrator, with a beautiful, horrific b
A former porn star and now beyond recognition, the narrator takes us on a journey into his own past, into his future and recovery, and into medieval Germany.For at least half of the book, I was completely hooked.
Because the things she tells him cannot possibly be true.Among her tales of love stories, she also reveals that they have a "past".
The writing is lush and vivid, weaving a modern day tale of tragedy and romance with history and the suggestion of fantasy.
What if, say, you're me, and you're about to review Andrew Davidson's The Gargoyle, aka "The Little Book That Could," that came out of obscurity earlier this year to become the most heavily hyped new novel of the entire fall season?Well, if you're me, you take a deep breath, point your car squarely towards the low-road exit ramp, and declare: This book was freaking terrible, and every executive at Doubleday responsible for overhyping it should be ashamed of themselves.
I think it is the masterfully presented idea of eternal life, of souls meeting with each other time and again, is what makes this book such a comfort.
(Dd 13/03/2018) I happen to be a believer in all the key things to this: both reincarnation and eternal love.
Unlike Francesco, because I had never longed to see the divine, I was not burdened with the fear of what might happen if I did.Michael smiled.I realized then, for the first time, that I was not hallucinating.
Then Marianne Engel, a woman with a history of mental illness, shows up in the nameless narrator’s hospital room telling a story about her previous life in medieval Germany.
The thing that bothers me most is the narrator’s seemingly hasty transition from a drug-addicted, sex-addicted, selfish, friendless porn star to a man who finally develops a soul after he becomes smitten with a mentally ill woman who tells him stories.
This flaw was relatively easy to overlook, as I too, was swept away by Marianne’s stories - the religious imagery, literary references and beautiful, tragic tales of love that felt so very real.
Through the mouth of Marianne and with images straight out of Dante's Inferno, he tells 700 years of stories of Marianne's reincarnations which have included whispering nuns, fiery arrows, callous mercenaries, deadly plagues, lost ships, gregarious Vikings, and being buried alive.It's with a man's cocaine-influenced fiery car accident and his subsequent treatments in a burn unit that the novel itself begins.
She swears she's known him for 700 years, tells him this is the 3rd time he's been burned, says she knows how he got the scar on his chest, tells him stories of dragons and monks, and leaves him a grotesque (not to be confused with a gargoyle) that she herself carved for him.
The main issue I had was that there was no real conflict to propel the plot along and I didn't think that the characters were strong enough to carry the story themselves.
Yes, there were some details that intrigued me (like the Asian woman whispering to a young Narrator about the origin of his scar, which was completely forgotten in the pages that I was able to get through), and Marianne's assertion that they were lovers did pique my interest a little bit--was she for real or just a looney tune?
The Gargoyle moves you to want to be in love and to NEVER want to be in love.
The end,that awful place I did not want to arrive.
I longed to stay forever immersed in this story.
Breathtakingly original, descriptions that lead you into a journey of pain (yes my skin crawled when I read about the burns), and how beautifully he tied the stories of love together into a tight knot.
I will say this book is graphic but it had to be, or it wouldn't be a powerful read that haunts you long after you're done.
** 2"Forgive me Father for I am dumb" STARS**Okay, I know I said I wasn't going to write a review, but God *beep* it, this book left me confused, defeated & feeling like a royal idiot.
He who shall apparently remain nameless thought the following;(@97%)" It never takes me long to start lying again, trying to convince myself that Marianne Engel's imaginary past was legitimate simply because she believed it so deeply.
Although I read Marianne Engel a thousand times, it turns out that wasn't her birth name.
(view spoiler)[like when Marianne Engel took him to the scene of his accident without any warning.
This Book is Beautiful Beyond Words!!!5 "Beautiful Grotesque" stars!!! Our Nameless HeroOur hero is wounded and almost dead. He survives a horrible accident and struggles to survive.  “My flesh began to singe as if I were a scrap of meat newly thrown onto the barbecue, and then i could hear the bubbling of my skin as the flames kissed it.”  “My skin will never work like that again, so aware of the other person that I'm unsure where she ends and I begin. Never again. Never again will my skin be a
As our hero is recovering from his horrible accident, he meets Marianne Engel.
She attempts to convince our hero that their love is timeless and that she is on a spiritual mission that must be completed.
This is by far one of the most beautiful love stories I have read.
I believe that my final word--Marianne--will be all I need to know that my life was good and full and worthy, and I believe that our love will last forever.” 
I highly recommend this book to anyone looking for an amazing love story that spans time and involves many cultures.
It is the love story of a severely burned ex-porn star and a schizophrenic sculptor on it's surface.
Reading this book felt like sorting through a wondrous box of treasure--there are well researched intellectual prizes, laugh out loud humor (advice--carefully read the menu for Christmas dinner), tear jerking moments that take the breath away, love that creates a longing in the heart, physical pain that make the body recoil at the reading..........and so much more.
Fans of Dante's Inferno will find large sections of this book fascinating as well.
But my book group was saying it was so good that I thought I would give it a try and I'm soooo glad that I did.
This book makes you glad to be a reader.
For me it brought stories and that love of a really really good book to life again.
I am about halfway through it and I keep making me put it down because I dread it ending.
Andrew Davidson has written a gift for the reading world.
His stories sweep you up and place you there and that's a rare treat.
Thank you Mr. Davidson!
Yo diría que entre un 3.5 y 4.Realmente la historia me ha sorprendido! No esperaba de ninguna manera un protagonista tan atípico; irónico. Es tan fuerte su personalidad, que, para mí, a pasado por encima de la historia y se ha llevado todo el mérito.
Hopeful, Yet Heart-Crushing  "I looked out this morning and the sun was goneTurned on some music to start my dayI lost myself in a familiar songI closed my eyes and I slipped away****I see my Marianne walkin' away...."Boston, "More Than a Feeling," 19754.2 stars [revised/shortened on 6/27]by Elizabeth Lisa, My Visualization of Marianne Engel, from novelTwo separate but related stories occur within this novel, with maybe 4/5 meta-meta-fables of love being told to the protagonist by his lover Mar
Over time, she discloses their story interspersed with 3 or 4 more tales of romance, spanning centuries and continents, that give hope to our narrator as he falls desperately in love with her.
When she nearly died in Germany she was given another chance at life and passage into heaven if she gave away her chest full of hearts, which she does through sculpting gargoyles.
Lessons are learned, love is found, spirits are restored, and faith is revealed..." Janet Maslin, NYTimes 2010 review.Botticelli, "Inferno, Canto XVIII"Maybe the best description of this novel: heart-crushing, yet hopeful.
To describe 2016 as a disaster would be an understatement. Sadly, my reading year wasn't too different. While I have read a couple of exceptionally good books, the rest of the year has been a bit of a dud. I picked this book up with an apathetic shrug of the shoulders. Hardly any of my friends had read it and I just thought it would be too weird for me. Luckily for me, the year still had room for pleasant surprises.The nameless protagonist is, in his own words, "a coke-addled pornographer". Natu
Sadly, my reading year wasn't too different.
While I have read a couple of exceptionally good books, the rest of the year has been a bit of a dud.
She swiftly starts to tell him the story of her past life in a medieval monastery.
In between reality and this, she tells stories about people she's known in her time and their reckless acts of love.
This book focuses heavily of redemption and love in the most poetic of ways.
I can tell that this will be on my mind for some time.
I read all the blurbs about how wonderful, astounding, amazing, unbelievable it was.
You know, I actually wanted to like it.
I was looking for a good book.
I forged my way through a good part of the book, after all sometimes books start slowly and then "take off".
I just didn't care for it, in other words, I didn't think it was astounding, amazing, absorbing, incredible...or even very good.
To each their own, if you liked it (and I see many do/did) I'm happy for you, but it's not for me.
The next half of the book takes place within the burn ward as N begins his long road to recovery.
The car accident and most of the burn ward scenes are detailed, horrific and at times hard to read but they're also so well written that you'll be able to smell the hospital and really feel N's pain and suffering.
The book then begins to jump between time periods as Marianne Engel tells her life story which is set in the middle ages along with several other short stories about different tragic lovers.
in Liverpool I am probably the book equivalent of an overly tall Jawa (know your Star Wars people!) A forager always on the look out for reading material no matter how obscure the location and once a book has been tracked down it gets squirrelled away in my robes and whisked back to my space ship...
He was mistreated and abused as a child, he's addicted to drugs and he ended up being a porn star which he's very good at it but doesn't complete him.One day he's in a terrible accident and ends up in the burn ward with third degree burns all over his body.
It doesn't matter that he can't remember any of it cause Marianne proceeds and tells him the story of their past lifes.
Anyone who loves to read I'm sure will love this book.~~ Now let me go cry in my corner cause I'm still not over this book.
I really loved it.Probably the most unique love story I have ever read - one that takes the reader through the multiple hells of Dante's Inferno while being simultaneously horrific and profoundly beautiful.
There is no mushy-gushiness or conventional romance to be found in this one, but a beautiful and passionate tale is revealed for the open minded reader from the most unlikely of dark and disturbing places.-------------------------------------------Favorite Quote: The urge is always with me to retouch yesterday’s canvas with today’s paintbrush and cover the things that fill me with regret.First Sentence: Accidents ambush the unsuspecting, often violently, just like love.
I think this waas the third or fourth time I read this book and I am happy to say, I love it even mo
The unnamed narrator of Andrew Davidson's debut novel "The Gargoyle" may be beautiful to the world but internally, his life is a mess.
But as the story progresses, he learns the true meaning of love from Marianne Engel's standing over him to her sharing their story from history.Sure, it sounds like kind of a strange idea and very similar to another book I read recently, "Somewhere in Time" but it all works in this debut novel from Andrew Davidson.
The narrator is dark and cynical to begin the story, but as we see him mellow under the guidance of Marriane and others in his life, we see him go from a shallow man to a human being with inner beauty that shines beyond his physical body.
It means: luck that takes the form of finding valuable or pleasant things that are not looked for.
The Gargoyle was such a pleasant surprise.
I figured that the flaming red heart indicated a love story and I was ready for that.
I was ready for a gargoyle story.
I was not ready.
The story is told in first person.
I learned many things.
I learned about the difference between a gargoyle and a grotesque.
These things were parts of the story, but important.
The rest was love.
Yes, it was a love story.
Review will follow ❤ _The Gargoyle_At first i thought this was going to be dark and awesome. Well, it was awesome, but the darkness faded page by page and the more i read the more i enjoyed it. The narrative is beautiful and i loved every single story within the story. The pacing is fine too. I really enjoyed reading this and i now i am curious in reading more stuff from Mr Davidson.
Review will follow ❤️ _The Gargoyle_At first i thought this was going to be dark and awesome. Well, it was awesome, but the darkness faded page by page and the more i read the more i enjoyed it. The narrative is beautiful and i loved every single story within the story. The pacing is fine too. I really enjoyed reading this and i now i am curious in reading more stuff from Mr Davidson.
The writing is detailed and vivid but not overdone.
It's amazing, it's a great read, it's an experience.This book should not be underestimated, there are stories within stories and meanings within meanings and real depth.
The writing is excellent.
I was used to mundane writing and it made me happy but now I've tasted greatness and everything else doesn't make the grade.
Its like being a kid and thinking that Hershey's chocolate is great, until you grow up and taste real chocolate and know that you've been eating crap all those years.
It took me a whole year to finish it, since I wasn’t prepared, and The Gargoyle isn’t the type of book I usually pick to read.
While I hated the narrator from page one, later I came to realize he was supposed to be an awful, selfish, arrogant piece of **, because the whole story was actually about his character development and evolution, as he focused upon his faults and tried to find love and redemption.
It isn’t a typical love story and you might like it a lot more than me.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
The story begins with a horrible car accident which burns, disfigures and cripples the narrator, whose name we never learn.
If you can make it through the first 40-50 pages, the best is yet to come.Before the accident, the narrator was a young, handsome porn star who spent his days seducing beautiful women, and getting high on drugs and alcohol.
It's only after he has lost everything that he begins to gain an understanding of beauty and compassion, and actually sees his life as better after being disfigured and starting over.
I read this book a week ago and I've been mulling over exactly what I want to say about it, but I'm still not sure what that is.
Simply put, I really loved the book.
It was one of those wonderful books that sucked me in and I could not put it down until it was finished with me.
Part of the reason I loved it was for the way there were stories within stories within stories, like some kind of literary Russian nested doll.
Also, I loved the voice of the unnamed narrator.
Fabulous! You reader are in for a grand time. Davidson is a master storyteller. The reader is given a wonderful and detailed story but you must choose what you will take away as truth or fantasy. Maybe it's a little bit of both. The book has been placed on my favorite shelf. I loved how the narrator is unnamed but he speaks to you as if he personally knows you. A love story at its best with the stamp of redemption all over it. Please Mr. Davidson release another book quickly!
The self-absorbed hotty narrator has spent the majority of his adult life drinking, drugging, and being a porn star, but very early on in the story almost dies in a traumatic and disfiguring accident...
Instead what happened for me was at the end of each chapter I found I wanted to put the book down and not pick it up again.In any case Marianne Engel tells these stories to the narrator in order to keep him alive since the only reason he fought for his survival in the hospital was so he could kill himself once he got out.
(hide spoiler)]) would usually have me roll my eyes pretty hard: it's a thousand years old trope and while I can put it into context when reading a XII century Provençal ballad, I'm much less inclined to tolerate this lack of original perspective (a White Male Author's one, of course) for a novel published in 2008.But. Can this man write!
Great, great read: long story short, Andrew Davidson won me over despite my best attempt to resist him and his morphine-addicted, burnt-to-a-crisp ex porn-star hero.Read for the URR New Year 2018 Reading Challenge: "I Picked It for the Cover!" (Not really - but hey!
