https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97827.The_Prophetic_Imagination
If fact, I believe it would be fair to say that many Christians have found their faith to be drained of mysticism and imagination.
Taught that mysticism is evil or somehow against the Bible (untrue), evangelicals exhibit the same kind of legalism we point out in others.
My take could sound a bit harsh, but perhaps the urgency of needing new hope, a new language of hope, a new prophetic voice of compassion in a world that allows apathy to endure legalism is the better point I'm trying to make.
Reading this book was the first time I began to understand the Old Testament (or the Hebrew Scriptures). Brueggemann posits that a prophets job is to critizice, to point out the areas where a religious community is acting in opposition to God's principles, and energize, to encourage the community to return to God's love. This can be applied to such people as King David, Jeremiah, Amos, Abraham, and is to be reflected in modern-day preachers as well. I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in understanding the Hebrew Scriptures more fully.
Brueggemann is a refreshingly brilliant OT scholar who wrestles with the text and draws scarily prophetic application. This book really makes me take a hard look at the dominant cultural script in America.
This is an important read for those who care about both thoeology and art.
Brueggemann's imagination about how to live out kin-dom continues to challenge me to expand my thinking process.
The two sides hold the related priorities of the compassion/justice of God and the freedom of God, respectively.Moses is a prophet who calls out to the people of God in a way that re-imagines what that community could be.
The resurrection announces the freedom, power, and justice of God.The Church, likewise, must continually be a self-criticizing and energizing agent, by recovering its disruptive faith tradition and creating an underived community.I highly recommend this book for those who want to understand the prophecy genre in the Bible.
Also recommended for those take on a prophetic role (such as preaching), as the book points the way toward assisting other Christians in envisioning a more faithful community.
12/21/2016: read again. And can't think of a more penetrating, immediate must-read for "orphaned believers"-- to borrow the OtR lyric. Filled with insight and commentary on the OT that bears remarkable and necessary relevance to today.6/22/2015: A book I will return to again and again.
I was thus unconvinced in three areas, 1) Kingship as regression, 2) affluence is bad, 3) the social vision of the Prophets.(1) As regards the first, that the Kingship in Israel as a regression from the Mosaic establishment, I cannot but think Bruggermann is missing the big picture.
Further, wisdom was always encouraged by God, and in fact Solomon's achievement of wisdom is not a regression away from the Mosaic institution, but is instead its fulfillment (Deut 4:6; 34;9; 2 Sam. 14:20).
Brueggemann appears to advocate perpetual socialist crisis as the ideal for living faith.
A number of problems with his approach: he advocates that community must be formed around a prophetic leader.
Actually, for all of his talk about eschatology, he advocates a de-eschatologized marxism: perpetual class warfare without the "eschatological moment" when class is eliminated.
This book, for all of its problems, has its good moments.
Merely blaming the white guy without addressing the issue perpetues--oops!--the problem).
I absolutely love the cover, but alas, the book seemed to me tediously repetitive.
One problem with a book like this, being as influential as it is (I wanted to like it!), is that a lot of its thought has already been filtered down through other books I have read.
As others point out, there are also some questionable interpretations made by Walter Brueggemann regarding the biblical text; I cannot speak to that but it does feel like Brueggemann reads the present into the past.
I do appreciate the call to carry out the "prophetic imagination;" one of the problems of the contemporary church is we lack the ability to inculcate such an imagination.
Brueggemann offers a stellar and sweeping biblical exegesis to build a prophetic ecclesiology ultimately grounded in the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus.
The problem I have with Brueggemann is that his book doesn't provide any biblically sound answers.Bruggermann's reading of the prophets loses sight of God’s purposes.
One reviewer rightly referred to it as “high-brow babble.” The emergent and universalist language of “consciousness” and “alternative realities” made me uneasy and greatly hindered my understanding of his book.I had a lot of trouble with this book.
Had I known that Brueggemann was a liberal theologian from the emergent culture, I would never have read the book.
If you’ve not really read the prophets and are willing to settle for inaccurate biblical references espousing social justice, then you might like this book.
It is possible to believe things strongly enough to counter culture's accepted wisdom, and to have imagination enough to offer an alternative, hope-filled reality.
Through his learning of Scripture and its contemporary interpretation, Brueggemann reclaimed for me an understanding of prophet as one whose task is to "nurture, nourish, and evoke a consciousness and perception alternative to the consciousness and perception of the dominant culture around us." I'd come to believe the script I heard so often from ministry leaders of my past that to speak prophetically is to speak indignant, abrasive proclamations into the congregation and the street corners.
In this book he traces a prophetic modus operandi from Moses, through Jeremiah, (Second) Isaiah and Jesus of Nazareth so that we might participate in it today.The prophetic imagination, as exhibited in these contexts, stands over and against what Brueggemann terms 'royal consciousness' - by this he means the systems that preserve the status quo for those in positions of power or privilege.
In the face of the royal paradigm or totalism, the prophetic imagination functions in two ways - criticism, along with the embrace of grief and pathos, and energising, leading to the emergence of amazement.For his exploration of criticism, pathos and grieving, Brueggemann discusses Jeremiah.
Lately I've been wondering about the writer's role as prophet in our culture.
Walter Brueggemann's THE PROPHETIC IMAGINATION was a slog but was also helpful in answering my questions.
But his careful reading of the work of Moses, Jeremiah, and Jesus is very instructive for anyone wanting to speak to radical transformation.We need to ask if our consciousness and imagination have been so assaulted and co-opted by the royal consciousness that we have been robbed of the courage or power to think an alternative thought.--Walter Brueggeman’s The Prophetic Imagination 39Jesus knew what we numb ones must always learn again: (a) that weeping must be real because endings are real; and 9b) that weeping permits newness.--Walter Brueggeman’s The Prophetic Imagination 57
Starting with Moses and ending with Jesus, Brueggemann argues that to be a prophet is not just to be a social activist but to create an alternative community altogether.
This awakening comes from cries of grief and acts of compassion.
Compassion is not a passive act but signals social revolution as it ends the cynical indifference that we live in.
Grief signifies that something must die in order for newness to come forth!
Suffering made audible and visible produces hope, articulated grief is the gate of newness and the history of Jesus is the history of entering into the pain and giving it voice."

Walter Brueggemann's The Prophetic Imagination provides a crucial interpretative lens and theoretical framework from OT (Moses, Kings David vs. Solomon, Jeremiah, and Isaiah) to NT (Jesus) in order to renew the prophetic tradition of lamentation (present) and praise (future), from Biblical to contemporary poetry and prose, as actual breakthrough and com-passion and non-violent resistance against the obdurate predominance of the authorities, oppressors, policymakers, and powerful as evidenced in their dispassionate, merciless, and unjust rules and regulations of culture, economics, government, religion, and society. Read and weep! Write on!
The frustrations of the fruits of royal consciousness--numbness, oppression, and hopelessness--infuriate the justice and freedom of God expressed through the prophetic figures of Moses, Jeremiah, Second Isaiah, and Jesus. To penetrate numbness, Jeremiah's prophetic lament embraces and enlivens those in pain. To resurrect hopelessness, Second Isaiah's prophesy of hope energizes those marginalized. Both prophetic ministries are most fully and clearly exhibited by Jesus's birth, life, death, and resurrection. And now, we who are endowed with the empathic and energetic Holy Spirit must continue this prophetic imagination. cf. www.sooholee.wordpress.com for more book reviews.
The message of this book deserves five stars, and the book deserves every reader it can attract and more. Although it was written in the 1970s the message could not be more appropriate for the United States in particular in 2017 and the English-speaking world in general. The only cavil is that the prose is dense in spots. Notwithstanding, this book should be on many Christians' short list for gaining perspective on current events.
Brueggemann's book helped reveal the oppressive structures present during the Old Testament period that I had previously been blind to prior (especially during David and Solomon's reign). It also reveals the OT prophets fight for peace and justice which continues to offer alternatives for todays believers against the oppressive powers that be in our own day.
Motivating and inspiringMost pastors don't clearly make the connection between the prophetic task and their work. At least I didn't. This book helped me draw a direct connection from Moses to Jeremiah to Jesus. Then motivated me to identify with the marginalized as we seek to express grief as a means to embody joy.
I do like Brueggemann, but thought this book was very repetitive. I did like his core message about prophets not predicting the future, but helping people understand how to cope in present circumstances.
Outstanding presentation of what prophecy looks like in Scripture and how it can be applied today.
This book is jacking up my understanding of what it means to ministry, serve, and be. Where did All the flowers go?I wrestle with these words...
Review coming soon.
A great read, but a tad repetitive.
This was required reading for my class...ummm, not the most captivating read...although there were some thought-provoking parts in the area of how we approach ministry...
One of the best books I read in Seminary.
A theological classic of our modern-age, Walter Brueggemann's The Prophetic Imagination takes his staggering academic mastery of the prophetic texts (especially Jeremiah and Isaiah) and ushers a fresh, biblical perspective for the practice of Christian ministry in modern society.
Brueggemann's whole argument starts from the world of theory, even as he articulates a "grassroots" vision of prophecy.
In his words, he aims for a "practical" and "earthly" vision of prophecy; but in his academic approach, he falls to the very "royal" status quo that he is critiquing.
