https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16083181-the-last-night-of-the-world
اگر امشب آخرین شب دنیا باشه؟ شما چی کار می کنید؟
A short, rather lame story about the last night of the world. I would at least try to do something worthwhile on the last night of the world, like finish a book or write a review. What would you do?Read it here
السلام عليكم أصدقائيقمت بترجمة هذه القصة الجميلة قبل أمس على مدونتي، وأود معرفة ملاحظاتكم.https://radhiblog.com/2016/06/11/brad...
ماذا ستفعل ان كانت الليلة هي اخر ليالي في العالم ..
هل ستذهب الي السينما او تسمع الموسيقي ....؟!؟!!اعتقد انك ان علمت ان تلك الليله هي اخر ليلة فإنك لن تفعل الا الامور المعتادة الطبيعية ...فكما قال راي "لا تشعر بالاثارة حين تحس بالاشياء و هي تحدث بشكل منطقي" ...
و لكني اعتقد ان اعظم ما تقدمه القصة هي ان تجعلنا نعيش كأن الليلة هي اخر ليلة في العمر ..و ذلك يجعلنا نبحث عن من نحب و نتمني ان نقضي ليلتنا الاخيرة معهم...
عن ذلك العزيز الذي سوف نفتقده فقط في ذلك العالم ان رحل و إن رحلنا ...
عن ذلك الذي ان علمنا ان الليلة اخر ليلة في العمر لم نندم لانه ليس معنا...قصة رائعة علي قصرها...
قصيرة للغاية بيد أن المعنى عميق.أتساءل: ﻟﻮ ﻋﻠﻤﺖ ﺃﻥ ﻫﺬﻩ ﺍﻟﻠﻴﻠﺔ ﻫﻲ ﺁﺧﺮ ﻟﻴﻠﺔ ﻓﻲ ﺍﻟﻌﺎﻟﻢ ماذا سأفعل؟.
Брэдбери все-таки умеет
It seems I'm on a short-story rush. I read The Last Night of the World here.This consists of a dinner-time discussion between a husband and wife. It appears everybody in the world had the same dream, that the world was ending. "And when will it stop? The world, I mean.""Sometime during the night for us, and then, as the night goes on around the world, those advancing portions will go, too. It'll take twenty-four hours for it all to go." The two things that caught my attention are:1. The date is
It seems I'm on a short-story rush.
I read The Last Night of the World here.This consists of a dinner-time discussion between a husband and wife.
It appears everybody in the world had the same dream, that the world was ending.
The world, I mean.""Sometime during the night for us, and then, as the night goes on around the world, those advancing portions will go, too.
How everybody all around the world is quite at peace with its demise.
The two characters in the story attribute that to logic, yet I'm not convinced.
But everything is peaceful.And we get no conclusion.
A dream the other night made it clear that world is ending in 24 hours. Everybody had the same dream; exactly the same. Everybody believed it to be real. Nobody protested or bothered to do anything special in the few remaining hours. As the two main characters in the story explain: "You don't get too excited when you feel things are logical. This is logical. Nothing else but this could have happened from the way we've lived."
Think about it. What if it's the last day on Earth for you? For someone you love? What if that's true?
I'm a big fan of Ray Bradbury, so I was quite glad to come across this story I hadn't read before free online at esquire.com, but this isn't the best Bradbury story I've read.
(view spoiler)[It is a very dispassionate reaction to imminent apocalypse.
In some sense that is a nice change from the usual end of the world panic, or despair that one can often see in stories of that kind, but I think it is just too dispassionate.
The world ends (that is what really happens, the story leaves that to the readers imagination) in such a calm way that it kind of feels as no one care one way or the other.
(hide spoiler)]
I think this story was very interesting because it is about the last night of the world and how a couple talk about it and react to it. It is really strange and I think they don't explain the things very good, but I don't think it is bad story. I recommend to read it if you don't have anything to do, but I don't recommend it to you If you have to buy it.
Brilliant (as Bradbury usually is) and while I feel like it should be haunting, it had a calmness that was almost comforting.
Just 6 pages, but really cool.I mean, in the end I don't know if they died or if they simply fell asleep.
Reading The Last Night of the World was surreal.Having read another book by Bradbury, I was expecting the tone and style - pleasant and unpretentious, simple and clear.
The story itself seems something capsuled by time.
For some weird reason, it felt like a loop.
Going through short stories is tougher for me than the average novels.
A short story leaves a lot more ambiguity upon the reader.
No background, no world setting, no defined laws - it's up in the air for the reader to put.
It seems like a dialogue.
In my mind, it was more that the family understands an ending as a reasonable conclusion to life, and in this ending, they find comfort in their love.
They do not worry or scream or cry, as they find the end of the world to be "logical." I saw this more as an almost ecological or sociological statement of fact that if we continue to "live as we've lived," there is no conclusion but an ending.
I also tend to regard the science fiction universe as a realm where things happening without explanation is acceptable.
Most stories are all about people going crazy and totally losing all inhibitions if they know that the world is ending.
In this short, Bradbury is saying that if everyone knows the world is ending at the same time, the acceptance of that fate is easier because it is happening to everyone at the same time.
There is nothing that we leave behind, so accepting the end is not difficult.
There is perhaps also a theme here that the routine that some people get into, the lack of living for the moment, is in itself a bit like the end of the world.
Co byste dělali, kdybyste věděli s naprostou jistotou, že tohle je poslední večer, kdy existuje svět?Strašlivá představa, zpracovaná v tolika katastrofických filmech a scénářích.Bradbury ji pojal ale jinak, a jeho poselství je tak zvláštně poklidné, tak přívětivé a právě tím mírem i originální. A přitom z něj čiší dojem, že kdyby k něčemu takovému opravdu došlo, i nejvíce podobné pravdě. Na co běsnit a šílet po ulicích, když nejdůležitější je být s těmi, které milujeme.
"The healthy human mind doesn't wake up in the morning thinking this is it's last day on Earth. But I think that's a luxury, not a curse. To know you're close to the end is a kind of freedom."Cpt. John priceCall of duty - Modern warfare II
For some reason, where I should be feeling fer and paranoia while reading this I feel calm. And I think that may have been the point.  What would you do if you knew it was the last night of the world?  According to Bradbury, nothing and everything and then nothing again.
This is just so interesting. With just a few words I got compelled by this simple story. It makes me question so many things. The ending was so abrupt but I think it couldn't be more fitting for the story. The End of The World is definitely going to remain in my mind for a while.
A good story to set the mood to musing. I wish I had read it in the evening with a glass of wine instead of noon with the remains of a half-eaten sandwich.
A quite different approach towards "the end of the world"
This is a personal favourite of mine. I will definitely revisit these few pages.
My God, this is so eerie. What would you do in your last night on earth?
"What would you do if you knew it was the last night of the world?"
"I don't know. You don't get too excited when you feel things are logical. This is logical. Nothing else but this could have happened from the way we've lived."
ماذا ستفعلين لو علمت ان هذه الليلة اخر ليلة فى العالم؟ -.أفكار كثر تخبطت في رأسى هل اود لو افعل كل ا
The short story " The Last Night of the World" is a story based about how the town had a dream about the world ending.
The story explains about how a man and his wife spend there last night differently to others.
They simply spend it doing what they always do.Personaly I found this book a bit boring and actionless, but I think the book does show a different perspective of how people would spend their last nights.
I would recommend reading this short story because it leaves a lot of "what ifs" in your brain.
I did really enjoy this book because it does leave a lot to the imagination.
The short story "The Last Night of The World" by Ray Bradbury is very calmed.
It gives you an indirect complement, for it does not describe what is causing the end of the world.
It instead faces facts, like not missing the bad habits we have that are also destroying our world.
The short story appreciates small talks before facing reality.
I believe the story may have come from the Cold War:1) Russia announced they had nuclear weapons 2) The U.S did as wellMaybe there could of been a massacre.
The war could of resulted in the end of the world.
The story was simple but got the idea across. It had a kind of eerie feeling that I think the author was trying to give. There were a few thought-provoking lines in the dialog, prompting the reader to wonder both about the story and themselves: did the children dream the same dream as the adults? Why did the husband and his coworkers have the dream before the wife and her friends?What would I do if it was the last night of the world?
