https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/560932.Complete_Works_of_Swami_Vivekananda_9_Vols_
These words were to come true, for it was Swami Vivekananda who set up the Ramakrishna Mission and immortalized the Master’s work.
He was the first among the true Hindu Swamis to go to the US and UK, and people in the West who came into contact with him were revolutionized by this man who spoke in English and the language of rationality but spoke of an ancient wisdom.
Many became his followers, and the Swami popularized the image of the Hindu spiritual seeker with his clear eyes and flowing ochre robes and turban.In this book you will find out why he made such a huge impact.
The most comprehensiv read for anybody interested in the ultimate identity of mankind.
I am too miniscule an entity to review HIM!! He changed the entire course of my life – Thousand salutations to His Holy Lotus Feet.
Adroitly he has put forth Vedantic knowledge coupled with Advaita philosophy pruning all the necessary arguments and at the same time without creating any gap or contradicting the reader's intellect/mind.
Although I’m new to philosophy, it’s been just 4 years, yet, I think I have find a few answers with his works that are highly saturated with an in-depth understanding of philosophy regarding Reality, life, being, existentialism, free will, spirituality, meditation and understanding the potential as well as the kinetics of the world.I can bet, there’s hardly any living (human) brain within whom his penetrating intellect won’t cast any vibration.
He reveled the old lore; felt connected with the Lord, but was not free until his death, true to his master's word that he would suffer in his body and at the right time,he will have the courage to break the cage.
He did break the cage: the swan left the blooded nose and eyes at a very young age, 39 years of age, on July 4, 1902.
Indians would tolerate any insults to their Lords, Krishna or Rams, gods like rat-saddled elephant nosed Ganesh or a bhang drinking Shiva, but for or to Vivekananda they are sensitive.
In these 9 volumes, there is nothing but words of bravery and courage.
I am very proud to possess all the 9 volumes of this collection.I am in very initial phase of reading its volume 2 (it doesn't mean that I have finished vol 1, I have not read vol 1 at all :) and what I have understood from this is that the sufferings will last as long as we have life. It ends only when the life ends. And the only way to end suffering forever is to attain Moksha(i.e, no life after this life).
A book capable of doing miracles in your life.
I read most of the first four volumes of this collection, but realized recently that I'm not likely to continue on with the remaining volumes.
The first volume includes some priceless writings: in particular V's Yoga Sutras and his descriptions of Karma and Raja yoga.
The 2nd and 3rd volumes continue with his excellent review of the yoga systems, covering Bhakit and Jnana yoga, and all three volumes include numerous transcripts of his speeches in the US.
The remaining volumes include mostly transcripts, interviews, articles and letters; while fascinating, it takes quite an effort to sift through works to find the gems.
If you are keen to understand hinduism then this book is answer. It summarize all branches very clearly. Very thought provoking. Highly recommended to all
Be perfect in this idea; and then as long as the body endures, speak unto others this message of fearlessness: "Thou art That", "Arise, awake, and stop not till the goal is reached!" If you can achieve this, then shall I know that you are really a tenacious East Bengal man.[Source]Arise and awake, for the time is passing and all our energies will be: frittered away in vain talking.
Arise and awake, let minor things, and quarrels over little details and fights over little doctrines be thrown aside, for here is the greatest of all works, here are the sinking millions.[Source]Arise!
I have not completed yet. But it clear beyond doubt that if anyone needs to understand spirituality (not necessarily religion) this is the book to be read. It appeals to the scientific mind as a rational and logical explanation of the nature and humanity in it. It astonishing to find that even-though the book was written before Einstein's time Swami has writen that matter(mass) & energy are interchangeable!!!! He also predicts that humans will discover Force field of human thoughts & thus end the scientific discovery of spirituality. Now this is something worth waiting for!
I have the print edition of this collection, eight volumes. This is not a book to read page by page. Swami springs unending surprises every time you read. The digital version has a ready search function, so you do not have to remember what you read, and in which volume it was! My progress is going to be very slow on this collection. At least I know what is there in the first eight volumes. Thanks to Ramakrishna Mutt for updating this collection with the ninth volume.
If you really want to understand India and her teachings then study Swamiji. He was a full blooded masculine personality an inspiration of youths. His works are full of practical Vedanta and the real existence of Hindutva.
5 star
A definitive guide and reference to keep, slowly chew and digest for every seeker of Sanathan dharma and enlightenment.
It has been extraordinary, wonderful. This is my 3rd time.
philosophical truly facts by swamiji!!!
this is one book i keep coming back read it more than 3 times entire 9 volume . his work gave me hope when i'm facing biggest failure in life
This 9 volume masterpiece is a collection of works of the great Indian Swami Vivekananda. It contains his lectures delivered throughout the length and breadth of this globe. It contains the letters which he had written. The diary entries of his disciples, some of the ground breaking speeches and the ancient teachings of the vedanta and the upanishads can be found in this volume.
It was a very long read and took time. But I'm glad I persisted with it. Swami writes some very interesting pieces and I'd like to find out more about him.
Just finished the third volume of this set after moving through one volume per year thus far--had planned to proceed through to the end of the collection over the next six years, but I'm going to throw in the towel.
There is a great deal of wisdom and insight in this set, but I'm finding it increasingly difficult to either locate or focus on the nuggets given my unfamiliarity with Hindu concepts and terminology.
The more engaging selections for me focused on interfaith awareness and the positioning of Hinduism within the context of other world religions.
I'll look forward to cracking open a briefer, more focused anthology.
It is amazing to imagine someone like Swami Vivekananda walked on our land 115 years ago (during peak colonial times).
Most of the content is repetitive but it actually helps us reiterate and absorb the real meaning behind his lectures.I wish we had at least a handful of men who dreamed like this great man and inspire the masses.
Such a clarity of thought will be so useful (in current climate where everything that is foreign is valued) to ignite a movement of pride and ingenuity.Swami Vivekananda wished men to realise that they themselves are divine, strong and capable of changing the direction of the nation.
I live just beside the main branch of Ramakrishna Math in Belur, West Bengal.
If you're trying to find the meaning of life, or trying to deeply contemplate on some existential issue, just buy this collection, the subsidized version which I bought is just Rs.500, that's like, free, for what knowledge it holds.Boy, this man is deep.
Many spiritual teachers ignore or leave many concepts unanswered, but this man takes the skepticism first, then he gradually builds towards the real facts.
I've bought many worthless books, but this set compensates all my pointless expenses.
The same can be said of this great soul.
We can neither describe or fathom nor measure the depth, strength, and purity of this man's works on this plane of existence.
I can only end this in all humility saying that I am mostly humbled, owe my journey of strength, ups & downs in life, and my own clarity of conviction to this great soul!
his works are beyond any ratings and likings, because only a great warrior walking on the path of truth and seeking the highest truth can identify with all what is said and preached!
I raed all the volumes of this wonderfull collection of writings by the saint Swami Vivekanada...and have been thrilled and enlightened after completing ....i recommend every one to read these volumes either in one go or one by one!
A must-have collection for anyone who wants to understand India closely! The books exhibit the scholarship of an erudite Indian monk who did not fear to expose himself to the Western and Islamic philosophy and yet, established the great Hindu tradition on the world stage!
Had read this earlier. Read again. Amazingly easy read tounderstand not only Hindu Philosophy, but Indian culture. Reading this leaves one with the feeling of the greatsoul Swami Vivekananda was!
Gives a comprehensive idea about Indian philosophy. You can find very pragmatic answers by Swami Vivekananda to some of the moral and philosophical questions that we encounter in daily life. Also covers the ancient history, evolution of society, the nature of man etc !
In volume 1, there is a very good introductiion to Karma Yoga and Raja Yoga. Definitely worth a read to understand how deep, the concepts of his and hindu philosophy that he preaches, are.
Wonderful, inspiring, proud!
