https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/464042.Bolo
Laumer does an excellent job keeping the action moving while looking at some interesting interactions between man & his self-aware machines.Contents:A Short History of the Bolo Fighting Machines (1976) is a 'factual' brief account of their development over the years.
They grow from a man controlled tank to self-aware war machines that know their business far better than their creators.The Night of the Trolls (1963) is also in The Undefeated, another collection of Laumer's short stories.
The bolo doesn't have a very good part.Field Test (1976) is the first self-aware bolo.
Loved the way the humans' roles reversed.
Bit of a Frankenstein tale in some ways.
I think the biggest surprise for me was that none of the stories were in the vein of Karel Capek's R.U.R., which really for me is the obvious direction for this to go.
What you are left with is the perfect setup for the type of chest-thumping jingoistic nonsense that passes for much of military fiction this last decade or so.
In fact, on further research, the sci-fi branch of the aforementioned military fiction has been writing Bolo stories lately.
The stories are a very well balanced, enjoyable, and short fiction collection.
You can tell where that's going.Anyway, the heavy influence that Laumer's work had on more modern sci-fiction series - ala Terminator, Aliens etc - is apparent right from the opening story, all of which are entertaining in their own way.I particularly liked the stories because they not only have cool, yet simple "retro" tech, but also because all the lead characters seem to possess a cocky, Clint Eastwood-ish, tough guy attitude.
Tell your boss I sneaked past while you were resting your eyes." He picked up his bag, stepped over the man, and went up the gangway into the ship.Classic cheesy good fun, I say!
This is a anthology of Bolo stories, but a good sample of Laumer's work.
Laumer was a master, though I'm not sure how many people recall everything he did.
He was also a great lover of short stories, and why so much of his work has been reprinted in various anthologies over the decades.
His ability to lead the reader with action packed dialog is superb.As a book, I suppose I will give this 3.5 stars but if you want to learn something about writing good SF, round that up to 4 and read each line carefully.
You're sure to gain much from the experience.
Excellent military sf.Better than some of the modern stuff out now. IMHO.
Lots of testosterone in this one. And stories about centuries-old war-robots. A good holiday-read. (unless of course you're a woman. Then you will propably hate it)
For me, Keith Laumer is better known for his space diplomat, Jamie Retief, than for his elite, sentient fighting machines known as the Bolo units.
It has been suggested that the long-lived strategy game from Steve Jackson (Ogre) was inspired by the Bolo stories.
Laumer adds complexity and fascination by putting a sentient AI atop this concept.Bolo: Annals of the Dinochrome Brigade is an anthology which includes a novella and several short stories.
Bolo: Annals of the Dinochrome Brigade will challenge one’s ideas of progress and how one treats seeming sentient beings.
Bolo: Annals of the Dinochrome Brigade is right up there with the stories of Retief in my book.
A must for Bolo fans, as these 1960's stories are the foundation of the universe. An interesting read, however I found most of the collection lacks the emotional impact of some of the later stories.
This book was a fun read. Multiple short stories about these awesome war machines. "For the honor of the corp"
FUN SCI FI WITH PLENTY OF MILITARY ACTION REREAD THE WHOLE SERIES MANY TIMES
The Bolos are awesome! The stories are a lot of fun.
Bolo is a compilation of short stories chronicling self-motivated and later self-aware combat machines.
Later as humanity is united under a centralized star-spanning government, the Bolo becomes the defender of humanity against "alien" aggression.
Picture a mobile war-machine that masses as much as a Battleship, can use its flint-steel treads to sprint at 200km/hr, whose weapons output is measured in Megatons per sec, and it is understandable why fear of the Bolo is a reoccurring theme in these stories.
The last story in the book Combat Unit is one of my favorite science fiction stories, showing just how far these war-machines have evolved under human direction.
Collection of short stories, following increasing marks of the self aware tanks known as Bolos.There are several other short story collections (that came out in the 90's?) with different authors, but this is the best one, being typically 70's sci-fi.Laumer does a great job of showing the "humanity" of these machines, as well as the people who work with them.(And the reaction when someone sees a giant super tank for the first time).
The same properties that make Laumer's AI supertanks endearing (absolute willingness to sacrifice and rationality under fire) make his human protagonists deeply unrealistic and rather insufferable. The non-human centric stories (all but the first two iirc) are quite good; the bolo milieu is unusual in science fiction in that it can bring a tear to my eye pretty consistently.
Classic military science fiction at its best. Laumer manages to portray his war machines in a fashion that is both gripping and emotional. The combat is very detailed, and there is a lot of background that makes it a very detailed universe. All in all, a must read for anyone liking Military sci-fi.
1980 grade A2011 grade B+full title Bolo - the Annals of the Dinochrome Brigadesix short stories.series book Bo2Although the individual stories are not all great, taken as a whole it is pretty good.
A fun read but very much in the style of 50's pulp fiction. Not quite as bad as the Lensman series, though. Suspect it is a precursor to great ST war classics such as Hammers Slammers.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/12299113
Simply excellent. This is a collection of short stories about self-aware fighting machines of the future. There are some true classics in this collection.
Listened to "A Relic of War".
Self aware tanks
Read this book when I was in High School and just came across it while cleaning the basement. Most the short stories are very good and I enjoyed reading it again.
A fantastic selection of stories based on the future "bolo" tank. Great read. Very reccommended
'Chronicles of the Old Guy' was much more fun.
Great stories from a master!
