https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1470663.The_Saltmarsh_Murders
Another strange Mitchell mystery. I like it but I don't like it. Her books are odd and unsettling but in a sort of fascinating way. This book was both dated and ahead of it's time. The straight faced Freudian talk is a hoot. Yet in other ways the book prefigures the amoral lurid aspect of many modern thrillers. The wildly broad stereotype of the one black character is cringe worthy. Yikes! However it's depiction of women's sexuality is so different from the usual 1930's mores. A creepy book that I kind of like except when I don't.
(Forgive me, Dame Agatha!)In this novel, Mrs. Bradley sleuths out the murderer of a "ruined" housemaid who had been keeping the father of her illegitimate baby a secret.
Needless to say, police officials leap at the obvious, only to be shown up by "the Bradley," as curate Noël Wells calls her.
So does his lack of self-awareness, which lead Reverend Wells to make some unintentionally funny remarks.Of course, I love the television version of Mrs. Bradley; however, that production, featuring a more chic and less quirky Mrs. Bradley, is quite, quite different from the books.
You can view the television programs without ruining in the least the enjoyment of the novels.
The Saltmarsh Murders by Gladys Mitchell, is a series and an author -- incredibly -- I did not know before.
Mitchell began her mystery writing career in 1929 and is pretty much a contemporary of Agatha Christie.
This one bears the tagline: "A quick-witted, clever mystery from the Golden Age of crime writing" and that sums it up nicely.
and murder.
Like a number of Christie novels, this one has a fairly long lead in of facts and characters before the story really starts to take off.
Mrs. Bradley is an interesting, odd and slightly dark character.
This was my first of these books (I LOVE the tv series with Diana Rigg -- though I have to say, other than the name, not a lot is the same).
The story itself was interesting but not overwhelmingly so.
There was one piece of the puzzle I truly didn't get though despite explanations and it didn't make sense to me so all in all I am going with an okay but pretty funny book and I will read another.On a final note, I did like Noel, the narrator and bit of sidekick
The writer's time and personal mentality are very much in evidence in her use of language to pigeonhole people and personalities, even when Mrs Bradley is not speaking--and of course the British class system is alive and well.
I did rather object to being informed repeatedly, in the mouths of different characters, that "women of that type" (ie showgirls and other working-class lasses) apparently don't mind being knocked about by their men, in fact they expect it.
The fact that the author had to have an "appendix" with Bradley's personal diary, explaining her ideas and elucubrations along the way,tells me that I'm not the only person who found it confusing.
The offbeat and weirdly funny mysteries of Gladys Mitchell may be an acquired taste, but nonetheless can prove quite addictive.
The Saltmarsh Murders, published in 1932, was her fourth mystery, and features as sleuth, her now-famous character Mrs. Bradley.Mrs. Bradley is a wealthy widow, one with a thorough background in Freudian psychology.
Wells is an intelligent and sympathetic character, but his lack of self-awareness is irresistibly funny to Mrs. Bradley, and to the reader.
Mrs. Bradley is no doubt a peculiar character, but not without much humor and some sweetness.
The Saltmarsh Murders is sweetly macabre little gem of a very English murder mystery.
I have read many books from the "Golden age of crime" before, not to mention many other novels written in the years between the wars, and certainly there are many times when attitudes of the time jar terribly with what is acceptable today.
However in this book - which is the first Gladys Mitchell I have read - there was language and attitudes particularly to race - which I actually found offensive.
There is a black servant character in the book, and so I would hope that other Gladys Mitchell novels - not featuring black characters wouldn't be so overtly racist.
If you love classic British mysteries, you MUST read the Mrs. Bradley series.Few people today know the name Gladys Mitchell, although those who watch PBS are familiar with her most famous detective - Mrs. Bradley.
But go she did and became a teacher of English, history, and games (P.E.) She started writing in the mid-twenties and published her first Mrs. Bradley mystery in 1929.
Maybe she agreed with Edmund Crispin that working with young people is the best possible occupation for learning about criminal tendencies.THE SALTMARSH MURDERS (published in 1932) was the fourth Mrs. Bradley mystery and is generally considered to be one of the best.
One of the classic 'Golden Age' crime mysteries.I really like the Gladys Mitchell Mrs. Bradley books.
For that period, Gladys Mitchell touched subjects that many authors would never go near.
But she managed it with such panache, that she pulled it off time and time again.I enjoyed my third or is it my fouth reading/listening of the book...oh well, no matter.
These books are always a joy to read or listen to (we need more audiobooks, please).
If you like quirky, off the beaten track mysteries, theses will fill the spot.If you like the review and would like to read my other reviews on books I have read, visit my blog at www.finalchapterreadersgroup.wordpres......
Mrs Bradley is a strange detective, but engaging and entertaining. The Saltmarsh Murders hinges upon pregnancy, murder, smuggling and a village fete. It is unlike many "Golden Age" whodunnits, relying on psychology and anecdote over interrogation and fingerprints. It's a heady mix - perhaps, written in the 1930's, it needs some of the racial elements toned down - but seriously in need of rediscovery and reappraisal.
I picked up Gladys Mitchell's The Saltmarsh Murders in the Oxfam bookshop, because I'm always interested to try new-to-me 1930s detective stories, and grabbed it off the top of my to-read pile last week when I was looking for an easy read to follow To Lie With Lions.The Saltmarsh Murders is the fourth of 66 detective novels featuring Mrs Beatrice Lestrange Bradley, psychiatrist and amateur sleuth.
Most of the characters felt very two-dimensional, with the only one who really took on any life at all being the village madwoman, Mrs Gatty, and I didn't actually find the mystery plot particularly compelling.
Enjoyable for anyone who likes classic mysteries, but with its archaic language, rude stereotype of a black character and dated take on psychology, in many ways a hard go.
Mrs. Bradley is always a character somewhat in the background and we hear about everything through the rather thick head of the young curate, Noel Wells.
Mrs Bradley's journal entries at the very end of the book are amusing since we get her take on Noel as well as other characters.
For a book published in 1932 I was somewhat surprised at the central place an illegitimate child and the presence of incest took in the plot.
I think it takes away from the crime.
Additionally, I wasn't a fan of the narrator, because his arrogance really got to me after a while.
The case was interesting, but when it got to the end, and you learned the full story.
Maybe at the time it was unique and sensational, but to read as a modern reader, it felt like an overdone plot to me.
All of that is negative, I still think Gladys Mitchell is a phenomenal writer and crafts great mysteries and characters, so I will definitely be reading more in this series.
They get better and better!Just finished this book, number 4 in the series and it's the best so far.
The previous one, number 3, went on for a long time before Mrs B came on the scene.
It had got a bit turgid by then, couldn,t quite work out where it was going, but came to life when she popped up.
But this one had me chuckling from start to finish, even more outrageous characters than In the first three books.
Can,t wait to see what what wondrous twists and turns number 5 will have for me.
3.5 stars. I like Mrs. Bradley. Style is very readable with suggestions of Wodehouse. Motive/psychology oriented investigation. I think I would like to read all of her books if only I could find audiobooks. Not quite as much of a puzzle mystery as I’d prefer, but definitely reasonable. Better than Edmund Crispin.
Abandoned on page 22 of 287. Not me, just to weird. Includes a character who thinks everyone is an animal. Already getting confused and just not interested enough to proceed. Two stars as reasonably written.
Very slow starter this one is! But when it eventually kicks off it becomes a great little whodunnit and climaxes with a big reveal that challenges the theatrical greatness you get from vintage Agatha Christie's Hercule Poirot reveals. Great, great book.
Well crafted, but a bit too stylized for me.
The Saltmarsh Murders, which appeared in 1932, was the fourth of Gladys Mitchell’s sixty-six Mrs Bradley mysteries.
The detective solves the mystery quickly but refuses to reveal the identity of the guilty party even to her loyal lieutenant on the grounds that she has insufficient proof.On the other hand the detective in this instance happens to be a psychoanalyst so it points the way forward to the modern type of crime novel with its obsession with psychological factors which are usually far more implausible than even the wildest flights of fancy of golden age detective fiction.
This 1932 mystery would appear, on the surface, to be a traditional sort of story: it has the eccentric sleuth, set in a small, rural English village, there are murders among a populace that includes A Squire, A Vicar, his odd wife, their niece who loves the clueless curate that lives with them, a cheery couple of Inkeepers, a half-wit, a black servant, An Actress, Squire's beautiful Daughter, Her Rich Suitor, and A Madwoman.
The story is set into motion by the unusual circumstances surrounding the birth of an illegitimate baby by a maidservant, and her subsequent murder, and the odd reactions many of the village inhabitants have to the entire situation.
I find the the character Mrs. Bradley repulsive as she is described and her philosphy about incest disgusting but the mystery was intriguing.
Mrs Bradley, summoned to peaceful Saltmarsh by Sir William Kingston-Fox, expects to find the village dull, until she learns of a mysterious pregnancy, disappearances, smuggling and murder.The narrator is Noel Wells, curate, described by Mrs Bradley as nice enough but with a head like a turnip.
“He was just the sort of loose-living, foul-tongued man to have illegitimate children, and commit murders and get drunk and fake alibis, and engage in criminal conspiracies with his serving man.” So not him!One of the more flattering descriptions of Mrs Bradley is that she is like a sand lizard basking in the sun.
The Saltmarsh Murders This feels like an amalgamation of PG Wodehouse and Ngaio Marsh.
He, of course, is unaware of this and the delight of the narration are the many subtle digs from Mrs Bradley which the reader picks up on but he does not.
For myself, I knew who the murderer was about halfway through, then lost the knowledge as things became more muddied.
The real joy of the book, of course, is Mrs Bradley herself.
There is a TV series based on the books, however the Mrs Bradley portrayed in that bears little resemblance to the cackling, shrivelled crocodile in this book at least.
I admit that I picked it up because I had seen Diana Rigg as Mrs. Bradley in what I think was a public television adaptation of the first novel in this series.
The Mrs. Bradley in this novel is completely...horrible, perhaps.
Not sure that is exactly the right word.Aside from not liking Mrs. Bradley, the narrator of this novel, a young minister and a character in the midst of the local fray, seems unreliable and affected.
I once had an English teacher who told me it wasn't really necessary to connect with characters in a novel as long we attempt to understand them.
Reading Gladys Mitchell is like discovering a brand new band, or a new best friend or I don't know, a new flavour of a favourite chocolate bar...
like sea salt and caramel dark chocolate, where previously you'd loved just the sea salt, or something.She's a brilliant combination of Dorothy L Sayer's wicked 30s patois and Agatha Christie's eye for hidden detail and creativity around a classic 'locked room' murder.
All the usual protagonists are in place, and the narrative hints towards a 'Who Killed Roger Ackroyd'-style denoument, but the truth is a complete 'facer' in the Mitchell parlance, with enough side-tracks and genius narrative to make a firm convert and light a fire to dig out more of her 63 (63!) other novels.
Had trouble getting into it in the beginning (having seen the excellent Diana Rigg Mrs Bradley Mysteries on television).
In that series, she cleverly narrates and breaks the fourth wall talking to the viewer through the camera, but the in the book it is narrated by a young curate and it was tricky at first not to imagine it was Mrs Bradley narrating and I kept finding myself re-reading paragraphs and getting a touch lost with the plot and who was saying what.
However, the story was strong enough to keep my interest and Mrs Bradley is a great character.
So I didn't enjoy this as much as I enjoy the other two of the Golden Age trio that Mitchell is billed as a part of (Sayers and Christie) but it was still perfectly fine.
I'll try and read a few more to get a more accurate picture of the series, but it was an intriguing murder mystery told by a narrator who had only just met Mrs Bradley.
I didn't feel like I found out that much about Mrs B - she seemed quite remote and detached for a lot of the book, I don't know if that's a feature of the series though.
Cunningly contrived mystery that rivals Christie at her best for an apparently humdrum setting, eccentric but believable characters, grim huumour and any number of suspects.
Mrs Bradley is great, like a vulgar and slightly unnerving Miss Marple, content to sit back and get everyone else to do the work of detection for her - or rather for getting the proof she needs, for, according to the 'appendix' in the form of her notebook, she'd sussed the killer almost immediately.
This is my first Gladys Mitchell: I shall read more.
Enjoyed this a lot more than the first Mrs Bradley mystery that I read. Found it a lot easier to follow and got through it a lot quicker too.Didn't really like the way it was resolved. In the end you don't really know what happened to the baby and the person responsible for the murder died without getting any justice.Was able to guess at what happened because I found it easier to follow than the first. Suspected the baby was mixed-race but that turned out to be a red-herring.Will read the next one at some point.
I heard about this book from the Classic Mysteries podcast. It sounded interesting. A young girl gets pregnant but does not (even though it's traditional to do so) tell anyone who the father is. After she's given birth, she won't let anyone see the baby. And then... she disappears. Beatrice Lestrange Bradley is at her meanest and zaniest in this novel. It's not an easy read and certainly has the attitudes of its time (racism, etc.) that are not considered okay today, but it was still a decent read.
