https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1286268.Winged_Pharaoh
There are parts of the story that I quite liked, and other parts that just seemed rushed, but I rate it on the low end of the star scale because, overall, the whole book gave me a "noble savage" vibe, and, taken as a whole, the main character was just south of being a Mary Sue, and I was reminded of characters like Bella, from Twilight, who are basically flawless, except that they have a petty sort of flaw- except that in this case, the ruling class of the Egyptian people were basically portrayed as being nearly as flawless as the protagonist herself.
This book was almost a fantasy, describing a perfect ancient Egypt, where Pharaoh is wise and kind and wants only the welfare of his people.
Also, certain people are able to be trained to be clairvoyant, in order to see dangers for Egypt.
This is the story of one of those people, Sekeeta, from her time as a spirit before being born to the current Pharaoh, through her idyllic childhood, followed by her training as a seer, to her marriage to her brother, ending in her death and return to the spirit world.
I suggested this for my book club because I figured we should try something out of left field.
It's beautifully written, albeit a bit dry in places.
But somewhere around the halfway mark (about when Sekeeta enters the temple and starts having visions), everything slid into place.
So if you're not interested in spirituality and reincarnation, this book is not for you.
I don't believe in reincarnation, but went along with it anyway and was glad I did.
The imagery is vivid, the moral and theological lessons challenging, and the depiction of an ancient time and place--whether accurate or not--never less than utterly convincing.
One of my all-time favorite's
I think Joan Grant is my new enthusiasm.
One does not read, but is transported by.
The writing is spare, simple, not a word missing or added or out of place.
She says these are not novels, but memoirs of previous lives that she can remember clearly.
The book reads like truth.
I've already started Scarlet Feather.Incidentally, I learned about Joan Grant from an interview with her publisher on Open Minds on gaia.com.
This is a great show, and three times I've listened to five minutes of an interview, stopped the interview, ordered the book, and gone back to finish the interview.
Helt fantastisk og meget speciel bog... jeg føler virkelig den fortælling er en sand udlægning af Egypten på faraos tid. Detaljerne er eminente! Skønt gammeldags sprog i den udgave jeg læste. (Dansk 1958)
I must say, amongst all of that, what I find the most lovely about the book is that she teaches such lot about Egyptian symbols and gods, in such a way that it is charming and brings one to feel like they are a child listening and experiencing new levels of thinking, which subtly brings the reader to be put into the position that Seeketa is in, Whilst I think all of these are very charming features of the book, my one criticism of it at the moment would be that it is quite slow developing, Chapters 1 - 15 though pleasant to read, concentrate souky on Seeketa's life, which, while she is the protagonist, leaves very little room for everything else to be explored.
OPINIA Z 15 LUTEGO 2006Tak mi się spodobał "Faraon", że sięgnąłem sobie zaraz za następną książkę o Egipcie.
W większości są to ciekawe nauki, ale czasem tak nudne i jakoś nie pokrywające się z innymi książkami tego typu, że aż męczące.
Dziś nie mogę już sobie przypomnieć jakiejś większej części fabuły, pamiętam tylko, że nie była to jedna z tych książek, które trzymają przy swoich stronach.
Nie była specjalnie męcząca, ale też nie starała się utrzymać czytelnika przy sobie za wszelką cenę.Pamiętam za to jak parę lat później, zauważyłem w autobusie pewną kobietę w średnim wieku, która czytała właśnie tę pozycję.
The book is neither good, nor so-bad-it's-good, nor nearly as interesting as you might think considering the woman who wrote it truly believed that she was writing a memoir of one her 'past lives.' She apparently wrote a whole series of books about her 'past lives' that were somewhat popular in the 1930s.
I'm actually getting bored even writing about this dumb book, and if you can't get any joy out of tearing a bad novel to shreds than it really is worthless.
The trouble with it is its biographical format, with the tension in the book peaking in the narrator's adolescence.
Since she lives to ripe old age, the latter chapters of the book are less compelling.
There isn't sufficient conflict to keep you emotionally involved, and the new characters added were dealt with rather cursorily, so interesting as they and their lives were, it wasn't as compelling towards the end.
But then, I am not so keen on the typical biographical style, that is, a book whose organization is merely chronological relating of the events of someone's life; I like there to be a definite conflict to be centered on.
Joan Grant wrote a number of books that were published as historical novels that she considered to be received memories of some of her past lives.
Winged Pharaoh, the first of her "far memory books" was originally published in 1937.
As such, it is not a page-turning novel, but a fascinating metaphysical history of ancient Egypt.
Anyone interested in dreams, ancient religions, and spirituality will find this a thought-provoking resource.Book Pairings: The Kind of Ata Are Waiting for You by Dorothy Bryant and The Fifth Sacred Thing by Starhawk are both metaphysical novels that explore similar territories in a future setting.
I really enjoyed this book very much.
While I take Joan at face value and think her ability to remember previous incarnations is legit, the story stands on its own.
The New York Times hailed it as "A book of fine idealism, deep compassion and a spiritual quality pure and bright as flame'" a sentiment echoed in countless reviews the world over." That is a great summary.
It's just a great story.
Addendum: In her book Joan talks about her training as a priestess, and how she had to be shut away in a chamber for 4 days and nights, with 3 dropstones closing off egress.
A really remarkable book, not for the story-line but simply for the wisdom it tells of within it's pages.
This is her story from birth to death, taking you through her childhood and into the Temple for training to become a Winged Pharaoh.
How she fares as Pharaoh as well as a person.
After reading this it is easy to believe that Joan Grant really was seeing a past life and telling it as it was.
If anyone has a fear of death then read this as it shows how life continues from one life to another.
The concept of how she wrote her books sometimes overshadows the story itself.
This was a well written and emotionally sensitive book.
Sekeeta and her life in the Egyptian court completely enthralled me.
She wrote the details with so much depth and meaning even if she had not lived this life before, she gives a great illusion to having lived the life in the court.
I love it because it challenges my common perceptions and does it elegantly without forcing me to buy into any specific bias.
A refreshing change from the common new age biases I've sloshed through in the past few years.
I got this book in like a 1 bin somewhere in berkley about because I liked the cover which was different from this one.
It had a pharoh head and some ancient Egypt type hiero-graphics (for lack of knowing how to spell, you get the idea)I stared to read it but the begining was slow.
So I stopped and picked it up again aprox 5 years later.
Once I got to the middle I liked it.
Joan Grant's bio is really interesting she really believed in this book was a book of memories.
I wonder how this book was recieved by the public in 1937
A wonderfully detailed era in early history according to Joan Grant's past-life recall. She called her writing "far memory" books. This book is one of several far-memory books published. Winged Pharaoh was published in 1937 and was a best seller for fifty years. Her characters don't let the reader go.
One of those books which poses the question 'is reincarnation a valid experience?' and unlikely as it may seem, answers 'yes'. Totally convincing portrait all the more so for the mundane detail - also an excellent read.
I read this book when I was a kid - maybe 12 years old. That was over 30 years ago. It was bizarrely fascinating then, a purported story of the author's past life. I enjoyed it then. I should probably pick it up again and see how I feel about it as an adult.
the dream magic of ancient egypt. The author Joan Grant was a very interesting woman who believed she remembered her previous incarnations of other times and her stories were "far memories." fantastic story, very creative.
I actually really enjoyed this book as a novel in and of itself (there's some controversy surrounding the author, as the author truly believed this to be a past life memory.) A nice read in the form of an autobiography, it satiated my love of ancient history and mythologies.
I read it in my very early teens/late tweens. The only thing I remember is that I was completely mesmerized, so it must have been a very good yarn :) If I read it again, I'll write another review.
good
Found this on my Gran's shelves while visiting and found it fascinating.It did read as an autobiography.Quite enthralling
Great style of writing, good description of world, believes, style of life,hopes, and fears of "Kamu" people.However there is very little action. So I did not gave 6 but only 5 ;)
