https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/900067.Bears_in_the_Night
An early Berenstain Bears book.
I like this one better than Inside, Outside, Upside Down for prepositions.
I grow up with the Inside book.
This one has more atmosphere and the night-time sneakiness is more memorable.
I wish I had had this one instead, but I can pass it to the next generation instead.
It’s nice to see a book older than me still around.Great illustrations.
I enjoy them.
It’s funny, the story doesn’t make a lot of sense accept that it is trying to show over, around and under over and over again.The kids really enjoyed this book.
Although I really loved Green Eggs and Ham, I think this was my most-ever-favorite I Can Read By Myself book.
Ok, this and The Berenstains' B Book.I had this book memorized.
Not only is this book a great introduction to prepositions and spatial relations but it makes for a dynamic monologue for young actors.
I probably should have read this to my younger siblings more often and made it scarier; maybe then we could have saved on bail money.After the end, there's a picture of the ten million (I think there are seven) little bears snug in their bed and Mama Bear is downstairs, knitting.
For the record, I am NOT a Berenstain Bears fan.
this book and Inside, Outside, Upside Down are two of our favorite bedtime stories.
ESPECIALLY Bears in the Night.
I guess it's because the text is so easy even the smallest child can memorize it and "read" along with you.
And, there is no storyline about an idiot dad.
start.....
voices.....
low........
slow........
until the hoot owl says WHOOOOOO!
And then we read really fast as the bears run back into bed.
We all laugh and giggle, and I usually get "Read it again!" two or three times.Sometimes it's not what you're reading, but the enjoyment for both you and your children that makes it worth it.
Good practice for prepositional phrases. And fun, too.
Woooooohoooooo!!This book is so much - just as I will not eat green eggs and ham, I will not eat them Sam I am.
The same sort of repetitive prose following our bears as they adventure out into the night.The words and illustrations are clear and simple making this a great learning to read book and a guilty pleasure for the older generations - Come on we all secretly have a 'geek' band we sing along to when we hear their stuff.Read it, read it again, read it out loud or with a friend.
Don't be shy, give it a try.
Hoo! Hoo! I a spooky owl. Don't worry, I no eat people. I just smell flowers.
So far this gets the award for my favorite of the Easy Reader books. While there's not a lot of words to learn here, the story is told with repetition in a really fun way, and the pictures keep it funny and exciting. I absolutely loved this book!
My kids have been really enjoying this book. It's very simple and linear, and a great way for kids to learn about prepositions.
Another treasure from the Berenstains! It is a clever story the builds as the bear cubs venture out at night. A cute way to introduce prepositions too!
Great book for younger children to start thinking about prepositional language.
A great way to learn prepositions2 August 2013 The cover of this book identifies it as being a Beginner Book for Beginning Beginners, which sort of puts me way, way, way out of its category. This book is pretty much designed for people who are learning to read (though surprisingly, there are probably more people my age who are at this level, and have spoken English most of their lives, than the government is willing to admit). Hey, I'm not going to knock this book because as a kid I loved it. Th
This book is pretty much designed for people who are learning to read (though surprisingly, there are probably more people my age who are at this level, and have spoken English most of their lives, than the government is willing to admit).
Things only have names because we give them names, but the name itself, of an object or an action, is pretty much relative.
I wonder, as I read this book, whether I can actually translate it into German, which may be a good exercise as I attempt to learn the language.
Oddly enough, no Papa Bear, and there seem to be seven Bear children, all sleeping in the same bed.
But this needs to be told in very simplistic language, describing everything they are doing on the way, and using a lot of different prepositions.
You don't need to explicitly teach children prepositions.
They're not learning a foreign language; it's a little different.The best part: The last page where Mama Bear is obliviously sitting in a rocking chair, sewing a handkerchief or something, and all seven bears are back in bed fast asleep.For more children's book reviews, see my website at http://www.drttmk.com.
While this book will win no awards I still think it would be very appealing for children.
It also contained many site words that it is important for children to start to recognize.
A book like this would be great for that because it repeats a lot of words.
Also children might be interested because there are many other Berenstain Bear books.
The illustrations did an alright job at showing the emotions of all the little bears.
I do think this book would be a good book to include in a classroom library because it is simple and would attract readers at lower reading levels.
A Berenstain book all about prepositions, as told through the adventures of some nighttime wanderers.Another look back on my childhood as I reorganize my bookshelves.And yes, it's Berenstain.
This book is copyright 1971, and it's BerenSTAIN.
The only time it was BerenSTEIN is when the publisher relied on outside vendors (such as the VHS publishing) and they got it wrong.
Seriously, I have a VHS tape that spells it BerenSTAIN on the cover and BerenSTEIN on the tape itself.
No conspiracy, just an unexpected spelling that we all confused in our heads because we expect it to be Berenstein instead of Berenstain.
It's Berenstain.
It's Berenstain.
This is one of the earlier Berenstain Bear books, and it shows.
As you can see on the the cover, the bears are less stylized and cutesy than the bears in the newer books, and the story is an early reader instead of a longer read-aloud.It's a cute little story about several cubs (sharing a bed - cosleepers take note!) who sneak out of home one night to investigate a mysterious WHOOOOOOO.There are only a few words per page, with a basic vocabulary, so this one is perfect little-little ones learning to talk as well as for early readers.
And the illustrations really sell it, very cute.
I love Bears in the Night.
It's a very easy read, but it has a fun way of building on itself, so that the string of phrases gets longer with each page.
Sort of like the song "The Green Grass Grows All Around".
One of the bears sneaks out of the window and night and travels through the countryside until something frightens him and he has to retrace his steps back home.
This book is a natural easy reader with a fun story, unlike some many of the easy reader/step type books made today.http://www.momsradius.com/2016/07/juv...
The bears sneak out of bed and go outside to look for adventure.Using prepositions written in large print to accompany the illustrations, the authors tell the tale of where the bears to and then reverse the order as they run back home to jump safely into bed.Great for story hour, this book is easily memorized enabling children to use it as a reference or wordwall to help them spell preposition words.I like to use it as part of my Go Away Big Green Monster Unit Study to try to help kids find ways to overcome fears.
This is a book about little bears sneaking out of their house at night to go explore.
When they are out they go all over and around until they get to a spooky hill and race back home because they are too scared.
We would use this book in our classrooms not to necessarily teach about the dark but also to teach that you shouldn't leave the house without your parents.
It is a perfect book for early readers because there is a lot of repetition that would allow for the students to be more involved in the reading.
This is a great book for the classroom shelves.
Grades: K to 3 Genre: AnimalsA bunch of bears sneak out of the bed at night to explore Spook Hill. They are startled by an owl and run back home to hide in their beds. This simple story is great for the earliest readers. Each page has just a few sentences that often build on the last sentence. The repetition will help young readers feel more confident by the end of the book. The simple paintings of the bears as they explore the night are full of each of the elements of the story and do a good jo
Grades: K to 3	Genre: AnimalsA bunch of bears sneak out of the bed at night to explore Spook Hill.
They are startled by an owl and run back home to hide in their beds.
This simple story is great for the earliest readers.
The repetition will help young readers feel more confident by the end of the book.
The simple paintings of the bears as they explore the night are full of each of the elements of the story and do a good job of building the atmosphere of the world at night.
While reading this book, I really appreciated all the illustrations as I'm sure it's not easy to make the bears look so realistic, as if they were people.
However, the book was too simple wording wise that I wouldn't use it in my classroom, but just a story to read to my niece and nephew growing up.
The bears are in bed, they hear a sound of an owl, then the book goes through where they seem to go in order to figure out where this sound is coming from, and then once they know they come back the same route again.
Not sure if I like this story - showing kids sneaking out of bed and going outside at night. From the perspective of a parent of a beginning reader, it's a great book that has repetitive phrases and lots of descriptive words (over, under, through) that help with reading comprehension. Our girls like the story, although I still maintain that I don't like the idea of encouraging kids to sneak out of the house.
This book offers a little vocabulary, which is great for little ones. A lot of repetition is found and basically, it is all about prepositions. There is not a variety in colors, but pictures are very detailed.Extension:It is time to play!!!!!. Provide items to the kids like chairs, table, pillows, boxes, so they can go under, over, through, out, in, down, between, etc. Kids love to get challenged. So, you just let them do the things you want them to do.
This book does a great job of repeating words that help the reader memorize the story. It's an easy story that young children love because it's exciting to figure out what's going to happen next. I personally liked this book because my mom read it to me before going to bed. After my mom read the book, I would ask her to read it multiple of times.
A reader with each page having an entertaining picture and a phrase, that add up into a story about going out at night time. This is from the "Bright and Early Books" series, other Berenstain Bears are in the "Beginner Books" series from Random House. The likeable Bear Family spawned a popular PBS series.
This is the first book I ever read by myself. Then it was the first book I ever read to myself silently (though my sister didn't believe me and I had no way to prove it). My mom read this book to us in a particular cadence which I still use when I read it to my niece and nephew. My mom liked it because it teaches prepositions :).
This book is great for children who are just beginning to read. It is very simple, and interesting. The illustrations are cute and creative. Some very curious bears hear a noise so they leave their bed to investigate it. Once they find the source of that noise which is an owl, they immediately turn around and run home to jump back into their bed.
Another excellent choice for beginning readers. The illustrations in this book are eye catching, and the words are beyond simple. For kids who only know a few words, this is perfect for them. My kids still want to know why the Mom never notices her kids sneaking out of their room and taking off into the night :o)
A short book about little bears sneaking out of the house and heading to Spook Hill, only to rush home when they encounter a hooting animal. Building on a number of action, only the reverse them to get home, the characters tell an action-packed story. Neo liked it, but vows never to sneak out of his room at night.
By far, my FAVORITE children's book of all time. I could read this every night to Hailey. Grew up with this book, had it memorized when I was little and so enjoy sharing it with her. Our copy, from 1971, has no spine, and my brother's scribbled names and airplane drawings in the inside covers. This book has been so loved.
My favourite childhood book with the cute wee cartoon bears! I still have my original copy! Ah the memories as you watch the wee bears get out of their beds and go on a spooky journey to find out what is making the noise in the woods...the bears expressions are so cute and I still enjoy looking at it and chanting along with the story!
