https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129616.Something_Wonderful
Re-read for me. I.LOVED.IT. Every single bit of it ... OMG, seriously, this books is P.E.R.F.E.C.T.I.O.N!!That ending ... and Epilogue!******************************************ORIGINAL REVIEW BELOW. "I’m glad," she said softly. "I wouldn’t want you to be hurt." I don’t want to say too much about this one as you are better off just reading it blind.I loved it. “A lie is an affront to the soul, as well as an insult to the intelligence of the person to whom one lies.”  A lot of my friends do not r
I don’t want to say too much about this one as you are better off just reading it blind.I loved it.
A lot of my friends do not read Historicals.
"A dragon." When he looked bewildered she lifted her arm and pointed to the sky in the southeast.
"Right there—that cloud—what do you see when you look at it?" "A fat cloud." Alexandra rolled her eyes at him.
“And when it was over, he held her in his arms, filled with a joy that was almost past bearing as he gazed at the white clouds floating in the powder blue sky.
Her books are extremely special to me.This is my third...or maybe fourth time reading this and I still loved the heck out of it.
But for this book, I HAVE TO....So here it is people, My Jordan Townsende, Duke of Hawthorne...Isn't he wonderful?Anyway, So far I have been appalled by the books I have read in the past year and the high ratings I gave them.
For me to love and adore a story, I need..Flawless writing that never gets old.Amazing, lovable characters.Sizzling chemistry.Humor.Genuine conflict.Angst mixed in with sweet moments.Alright, that's all I can think of right now.
I have a friend who said the same thing about Conroy, who as well had been studying in Citadel just like Conroy and he’s very proud of his military ring, but even he who is ruthless when we play social games like Pictionary because the way his mind works is utterly strange because his instincts and creativity are immaculate and eyes widening, this friend of mine says that when he reads Conroy he feels violated but in a good way.
“What is it you think is going to happen?”Alexandra shivered deliciously. “Something wonderful." There is always something about historical romance that can get me out of a book slump. There’s just something about them that pulls on my heart strings with their one of a kind love stories. And Something Wonderful didn’t disappoint. When seventeen-year-old Alex, daughter of a lord and a commoner, saves Jordan, the Duke of Hawthorne from some highwaymen, well that’s when something wonderful begins.
When seventeen-year-old Alex, daughter of a lord and a commoner, saves Jordan, the Duke of Hawthorne from some highwaymen, well that’s when something wonderful begins.
God, I was cringing at her naivety and declarations of love, for only Jordan to say “Thank you.” But it was also so endearing to me.
When Jordan disappears and is declared dead, Alex is broken.
At first, she was so naïve, and so in love with Jordan that she made a fool of herself, because she didn’t know the kind of man he was.
When Jordan returns, it’s to find Alex about to marry his cousin.
Ahhhhhh! Loved this one. This was definitely better than Once and Always. I liked Alex better and Jordan was definitely more romantic than Jason. As per usual, Alexandra is the typical McNaught special snowflake heroine. I'm not complaining though because I personally liked her character. Jordan...sigh...he's definitely a typical emotionally scarred McNaught hero but he isn't cruel or abusive. Loved the humor, the chemistry between the main characters and the secondary characters. Definitely worth the re-read.
I adored Jordan Townsend and Alexandra Lawrence. Something Wonderful was a perfect blend of angst and romance. It is truly a beautiful love story. I loved it!
5 STARS ★★★★★[image error] Let me just start out by saying that no book has had a more appropriate title. And I must add that every single Judith McNaught book that I’ve read could have been titled the same. I absolutely loved this! These two characters, Jordan Townsend and Alexandra Lawrence are the perfect blending of angst and love. And the old adage that opposites attract could not be represented in a better way.[image error]  Jordan Addison Matthew Townsend was an only child, and heir to hi
And I must add that every single Judith McNaught book that I’ve read could have been titled the same.
These two characters, Jordan Townsend and Alexandra Lawrence are the perfect blending of angst and love.
“I love life, even when bad things happen to me.
“What are you looking at?” Jordan demanded finally, watching her.“A dragon.” When he looked bewildered she lived her arm and pointed to the sky in the southeast.
I absolutely LOVED the characters.
I have completely fallen in love with her books, her characters and her writing.
here is the song this book reminded me of...The Ballad of Love and Hate by the Avett Brothers.
I was a puppet in Ms. McNaught's hands.Jordan was a hard character to love.
There was some good writing there, Ms. McNaught!As for Alex, she was really the "something wonderful" mentioned in the title of this book.
She was too good and too sweet to be true in the beginning, but that made her falling "in love" with Jordan so quickly believable.
Ms. McNaught knows how to write compelling emotional scenes and she made me care for Jordan and Alex despite (or maybe because of) their "flaws".
Written Decembeer 10, 20144.6 Stars - Old quality in the very best romantic HR style. - A sparkling sweet and gripping emotional fairy tale         Something Wonderful is one of Judith McNaught's older, so beloved, grand historical romances. This one, her first #1 New York Times bestseller, is from 1988. ~ Loved and high raited by all my HR reading GR friends.  "Regarded as one of the most beloved writers of all time in popular fiction, Judith McNaught is the author of thirteen novels with more
Something Wonderful is one of Judith McNaught's older, so beloved, grand historical romances.
I read some parts as well and I just loved Something Wonderful from the first page to the last.
Another WOW romance!***********************************************England 1815Alexandra Lawrence, an innocent soon to be 18 years old country girl, finds her forced, after unfortunate mistake and an inn room, to marry the older and very powerful Duke.
Short and sweet:I feel like most readers: 'Magical reading!!'.
Do you plan to only read one single historical m/f romance in the coming year: Please, select one written by Judith McNaught, you can not but be happy and satisfied.
Why oh why have I not read more historical romance novels. Being only my second HR Something Wonderful was just that, something wonderful. This story had me captivated right from the beginning. I quickly found myself submerged into the world of the characters and experiencing something different.I truly loved Jordan and Alexandra’s story. I guess you could say it was love at first sight for Alexandra. It may have been because she was naïve but I would like to believe it was because her heart wa
I quickly found myself submerged into the world of the characters and experiencing something different.I truly loved Jordan and Alexandra’s story.
But what becomes apparent to both Alexandra and Jordan is the beauty each of them gives to the other.
But as Jordan is dealing with something unbeknownst to Alexandra, misunderstandings happen which leads to.....well you have to read the book to find out.
Maybe it is where Jordan and Alexandra share a picnic or the place they go fishing and make love on the hill side, or when they go to a Ball.
I love you…” ~ Jordan
AAAGGGGGHHH.
I just never learn.
Hero mistakes ugly duckling for a boy (with the requisite "he was annoyed with himself for his strange attraction to the young male.
Had he become so jaded that he was turning to boys?" moment, because, as we all know, being a "rake" leads to pedophilia.) and has to marry her.
Everyone falls in love with the heroine (of course) and when our hero returns, he has to fight his lust for her.
At any rate, he finally accepts her love and they go on to make tons of babies.
"That was a whale with large teeth.""Only because it got away," she retorted, laughing.Her laughter was as infectious as her enthusiasm, and Jordan couldn't stop himself from grinning even though he tried to sound stern.
"Now that you've said all those other things," she whispered when he finally lifted his lips from hers several minutes later, "do you think you could possibly say 'I love you'?
There was never a moment where I got annoyed or irritated by her and it was really a joy to see the world from her eyes.Jordan is the typical Judith McNaught hero.
Loved loved LOVED this!!!!Though I'm extremely disappointed with the publisher for the ebook version being RIDDLED with errors; missing punctuation points, typos, etc. For the price point of the book, the amount of errors is completely unacceptable. However, I've just happily purchased the paperback version because I absolutely adored the story.
Fantastic book!. I even loved it more with my re-read!. The characters are to die for. And it's been way to long that l loved,admired the heroine for her way of thinking. How she's innocent,and potent at the same time. As for the writing, let's just say McNaught is remarkable with her words. Truly captivating.....  Thank you for the wonderful buddy read my dear Supreet.. I had blast. Muah!
Alexandra's innocence and adoration for Jordan is obvious and a little awkward to behold at times, but yet so endearing and sweet.
We are then given a heart wrenching account of our heroines heartbreak and her transformation into a confident young woman, her thinking is that she would somehow have made Jordan proud if he was alive.
Jordans cousin offers marriage as a convince and Alexandra accepts.The second half of their story begins with knowledge that Jordan has escaped from prison, he's rushing to his home and family to learn that his wife and cousin are just about to marry.
I love life, even when bad things happen to me. I can't stop loving it. Every season of the year comes with a promise that something wonderful is going to happen to me someday.Absolutely love it!
"Listen to what my life was like before you hurtled into it wearing that suit of armor— Life was empty.
You don't believe that, do you, darling?
But it's true, and I can prove it." His deep voice ragged with unshed tears, Jordan recited his proof: "The flowers in the meadow are blue," he told her brokenly.
I noticed that the clearing by the pavilion—the one where my plaque is—looks like the very same one where we had our duel a year ago.
Oh, and darling, there's something else I have to tell you: I love you, Alexandra."Tears choked his voice and made it a tormented whisper.
I read almost all of Judith McNaught's novels but "Something Wonderful" is definitely my favorite.
I've read this book for, like, 10 times and every time I read it, it always feels like it's my first time.
I totally fell in love with the story and the characters.There's this one scene when Alexandra got shot and Jordan thought she would die, the words Jordan uttered just give me pinches in my heart every time.
You could really feel the love Jordan had for Alexandra.I strongly recommend this book.
This is totally a must-read!
This book is SOMETHING WONDERFUL
Meandering and lacking any real oomph, it is amusing to read about 18th century life.
I’m not a feminist, so the carry on doesn’t bother me, but these stories are extremely light.
I was a little bored throughout, and I have to say the heroine (is that what they are called in this genre?!) is always childlike at first, and always blooms beautifully by the end!
Even his handsomeness didn’t really want me to keep reading.
A light hearted read, which prompted me to utilise my underused Kindle.
Also, the heroine's mother disappeared, never to make a comeback.
Jordan believes women are conniving and faithless creatures, (with good reason) only fit for a roll between the sheets.
No matter what burdens and disappointments come along with it, she refuses to believe that 'something wonderful' isn't right around the corner.I won't rehash the plot, except to say that due to circumstances, Jordan feels compelled to marry Alex and the child/woman falls madly in love with the handsome Duke to the point of hero-worship.
Though the side characters were well developed ( except perhaps for the villains) all I wanted to read about was the romance between Jordan and Alex.
I really enjoyed reading the way Alexandra, Tony (Jordan's cousin, who becomes the duke later) and the Dowager's relationship developed.
Tony informs her Jordan felt pity for her, not love and Alexandra knew finally that the lovemaking she thought sacred actually was nothing but a child's play for him.
I know I know, I still dislike Jordan for what he did to Alexandra through the whole story but hey, guess I've read some clues to why his life was like the way he lived it [ref: his parents and their influence on him].
Por muito que me dê conta do quanto a leitura exaustiva desta espécie de livros arruinou todos os homens (comuns, mortais) aos meus olhos, dei mais algum tempo de antena à Judith McNaught.
Romântico, fórmula habitual, final previsível, e ainda assim houve algumas tiradas imprevistas…As personagens principais, Jordan e Alexandra, são os típicos protagonistas destas histórias: ele é rico, um duque, marquês, e sei lá mais quantos títulos acumula.
É na relação entre as duas personagens principais e no contexto histórico e no esmero dos cenários que reside o meu apreço: por muito que estejam zangados, desiludidos, ou que oiçam mexericos um do outro, escolhem sempre acreditar que o outro é melhor do que isso.
This book was an epic story of two very different personalities who by circumstances find that they must marry.
She needed and deserved a better hero and only at the very end does she get that!
The reason for the five stars is because it just about the most perfect book in terms of writing and grammar.
There is some other woman drama because he was still sleeping with the other woman during this book.
So I will change my rating to 4 stars because he does grow but I still feel his emotions were very wishy washy while she was the faithful one always.
Isn't it funny how you feel for a romance novel when you first start reading romance and then three years later, when you read it again?My Reactions:First Time: sigh. He grovelled. Oh how he grovelled! So beautiful.Three years Later: What on earth did I ever see in a sort of but not bipolar 'hero' who cannot make up his mind and thinks it is alright to sleep around and pull your wife's hair?
Every once in a while, a 5-star book comes along that makes me want to go through all my other 5-star ratings and demote them, because they weren't as perfect, as beautiful, as heart-warming as this one. Something Wonderful is one such story, and I'm so glad I own a physical copy of it because I'm sure I'll be rereading it for many years to come.

Wonderful love story. It broke my heart so many times I was in tears when I finished reading it!
Nope, it’s when she is on their honeymoon, and her complete ignorance of sex charms the incredibly cynical hero as well as me.
The hero the Duke, is another piece altogether.
The Duke becomes much more a stock romantic character in his cruel and distrustful actions against the heroine as well as other characters.
As a reader, initially I rolled my eyes, great, more arrogant actions from an arrogant character.
Enjoyable adventure, smoking romance, spicy heroine, alpha Duke who reforms (kind of), good writing.
But sometimes, a girl needs a good old historical romance where the virgins ARE innocent.
I laughed, I cried bitterly and with catharsis and now I keep wondering why I don't trust the fine women of romance more.
Don't get me wrong I love indie authors but it's like really good soul food.
You can have all the Indian/Mexican/Asian mixed cousins but once in a while you simply need a good home cooked meal.
Just to feel like you're home again and remind yourself why you loved the genre in the first place.
something wonderful
