https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/384579.Non_Stop
Writers as heralded as Clifford Simak, Robert Silverberg and John Brunner have all tried their hands at this theme and have done good work.Ultimately, if you boil this down to it’s most fundamental roots, all these tales stem from William Golding’s brilliant novel Lord of the Flies” and his brutal description of how fragile is the thin veil of our civilization; and Aldiss’ writing is first rate.
Not perfect, there is some weak characterization, some odd dialogue, quite a bit of science that is painfully dated, but all in all this is a very good classic science fiction novel that fans of the genre will want to read.
On the other hand, there is likely to be a dehumanizing effect on the inhabitants who have to spend their entire lives on board the ship.In Brian Aldiss’ Non-Stop the spaceship has already been travelling to an unknown destination for several generations of the human inhabitants.
Presumably, this lack of morality stems from the primitive lives they live.While it novel is fast paced and never dull, it is not as gripping as it could be because the characters are not relatable; so there is no emotional core in the book.
Now I am a big fan of “generation ship” sagas and although this was probably, back in the dim and distant past, the first I ever read of that genre, to me it is still far and away the best.
It must be over 30 years since I (first) read this book and a lot of water has passed under the bridge since then , but to me this book was still as exciting, dramatic and meaningful (in terms of human nature ) as it was all those years ago.
Why have I waited so long to re-read ???
A quote from The Twinkling of an Eye, Brian Aldiss' autobiography:Faber published the book in 1958.
**********I thought well, this can’t be literature because I am having fun reading it, unlike if I was reading say for instance Burroughs, Bellow, Barth, Banville, Bernhard and other people not beginning with B.It is a story about a generation starship, that is the term.
There are starship troopers in this book, sort of, but they are nothing like Sarah Brightman.
I love Brian Aldiss, if he was a rock group he would be The Kinks, very English and kind of off at a tangent most of the time, and very melodic.
Non-Stop is an original take on the idea of the generation ship- vessels that travel between stars on journeys so long that several generations of people are born, live and die before the ship reaches its destination.
Aldiss does it well, and he presents an original take on the idea that I have not encountered before.Aldiss’ ship has been in space a long time.
Our protagonist in this scenario is Roy Complain, a hunter and member of one of the more primitive shipboard tribes who is pulled into an adventure that leads him towards understanding of what the vessel is, and how it might once again be controlled.Non-Stop isn’t quite the one SF novel to rule them all, but it’s a good read.
Aldiss je ideju o generacijskom brodu koji putuje bez kontrole vjerovatno dobio čitajući Robert A.
Heinleinove novele Universe (1941.) i Common Sense (1941.), koje su kasnije objavljene u obliku romana pod nazivom Orphans of the Sky. No, čini mi se da je u Non-Stop, svoj prvi roman, ugradio i osobno iskustvo proživljavanja Drugog svjetskog rata.Radnja počinje u jednom malom plemenu koje živi zatvoreno i u kojem se znatiželja obeshrabljuje.
Glavni lik, Roy Žalopoj (u originalu Roy Complain), ne bez prigovora, kreće u istraživačku misiju kojom se želi provjeriti da li je to istina.Veći dio romana je napisan kao avanturistički roman, a otkrića su dobro raspoređena, osim na samom kraju kada je priča pretjerano ubrzana i gotovo se sve doznaje iz dugačkog monologa jednog lika.
This is not "Technically" one of the 100 must read sci-fi novels as formulated in the Bloomsbury goodreading guide of that name.
I had technical and financial difficulties in obtaining the book said list selected for Brian Aldiss ("Hothouse") and instead looked into the "Read On" choices of further titles of note by this author.
This was the first one listed, was obtainable, and was infact his first book, so I read it just to get the ball rolling on this project.
Read this book if you at all consider yourself a fan of truly hardcore sci-fi.
Written in 1958, this is Brian Aldiss' first novel and I thought it was excellent.
It is hard to discuss the plot without a "spoiler" warning so I have added one even though I will only describe the plot in general terms.
The story revolves around a multi-generational starship that has suffered a mysterious catastrophe and left the survivors to degenerate into a brutish clan-orientated society.
Aldiss' description of the thought processes of the main characters is really well done and gives the right sense of "alieness" to this lost tribe of humanity.
Winner: British Science Fiction Award for best novel.
The only hero among his jungle tribe, a welter of superstitious folk knowledge and unaccountable futuristic technology, is a hunter by trade and a questioner by disposition who senses the paradox of his environment and yearns for a greater purpose.
His venture leads the protagonist and an assembly of local rebels with questionable motives into the illimitable jungle, an unnaturally lush vegetation that marks the edges of their known world.
The plot forms a path like a trail overgrown with obscuring fronds, which when lifted aside threatens a complete view of vistas beyond but only allows a limited further glimpse as the reader and protagonist approach their increasingly ominous destination.
I actually loved it (except the ending, mixed feeling about it), even though it is rather an exuberant and hyperactive book than a really good one. IT IS though scifi in its most classic sense (there are lush dangerous jungles! adventures! kidnappings of women and tough men growling, even mutant bandits! dazers and lasers fights! rats on sleds armed with swords - wait, what!?!)... and a captivating one at that.
The US title, Starship, rather gives away the surprise of the first section of the book, and the many reviews available give away most of the rest.
Fortunately I encountered neither sources before reading, and rather enjoyed this story.The main character is a rough-and-ready sort who adapts quite well to the situations he encounters.
Halfway through he meets an excellent female character, well written and strong, and they team up for the remainder of the book.
I just read this on the beach on Fire Island. I'm a big fan of Brian Aldiss, though I admit he's a spotty writer. The premise--of a generation ship whose crew has forgotten that they are on a starship--is terrific, and it's wonderfully thought-through and very well plotted. This book is also distinguished by having a strong, three-dimensional female character, which is unusual for the science fiction of the late 1950s. On the negative side, some of the writing is clumsy and the ending is a bit abrupt (both common Aldiss problems).
One of the early generation ship stories (1958), this one centered on a young man in a tribe that's unaware they are even in a spaceship, except for a cantankerous priest who's found some old records and decided they should go find the legendary control room. Along the journey, they learn more of the back story of the floundering expedition. Interesting overall story, a couple of nice characters, solid resolution.
The ship has been overrun by vegetation, the population don’t know that they are on a starship and since it is the only world they know they have slowly regressed into a more primal tribal existence.
The journey questions his beliefs, his worldview, why he exists and who he can rely on and trust.So in summary: I believe that the book is trying to say the following; we blindly accept our small piece of the world with little awareness of what is happening elsewhere.
The generation ship is not an uncommon trope in science fiction novels, but I can't remember having read one lately. Imagine discovering that the world you inhabit is really a ship bound for who-knows-where. The possibilities are boundless. Non-stop is how the characters in Brian Aldiss's book describe the journey of the space ship in which they discover they live. And then all hell breaks loose. Non-Stop, written in 1958, won no prestigious science fiction book awards. It certainly deserved to. Even though there were some minor plot flaws, I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
Poco importan la infumable traducción o la nula profundidad de los personajes, cada una de las partes de la novela te lanza hacia la siguiente, e incluso tras el cierre busqué nerviosamente entre las sábanas y bajo la cama el pliego que faltaba: ¡salid de esa maldita nave, quiero seguir leyendo!Por libros como este empecé a leer ciencia ficción cuando era un chaval.
Como los protagonistas de la novela cuando contemplan por primera vez el espacio, Aldiss me ha devuelto al día en que alcé mis ojos al cielo para mirar las estrellas.Que la tierra le sea ligera.
With his first novel, Aldiss created a society that has evolved after 23 generations lost in space on an enormous ship bound home from a colonizing mission centuries before.
As with other ALdiss novels I have read, Greybeard and Hothouse, this is the tale of a journey into the unknown by characters who can be either brave and honorable or not at all what they seem.
Aldiss has sophisticated fun with the language and ideas that have evolved among his characters, but he also never lets the action flag.
Having read four Aldiss novels, I am beginning to see what all the fuss is about.
Always love a good twist in the end!
Brian Aldiss has created a layered book in 4 sections that will leave you with a kick to the stomach for the conclusion.
This book was a nice surprise considering the genre fiction I have read and I thought the storyline was clever enough to warrant the payoff.
I look at this as a storyline that could fit right in with The Twilight Zone, you can see the genre was rip with ambition and audiences loved the twists.
I read there was a payoff at the end and I was very surprised to read this book and know I was in for a treat.
But time is short to solve the mysteries, because the ship is breaking down.Previous generations of readers might have remarked how the ship society has "descended into barbarism." Don't make that mistake.
I don't know that previous generations of readers caught this element, but I have no doubt in my mind that Aldiss clearly intended to send that message.Once again, this book is hampered by a pervasive sexism that's reflective of the time in which it was written (first publication 1958,) which gets really old; and yet, I still recommend it because of the questions it asks, and attempts to answer.
I first heard it mentioned as one of the books that heavily inspired the "Metamorphosis Alpha" RPG way back in the day, and the "Mutant Crawl Classics RPG" now.
I knew the basic plot going in - people on an interstellar generational ship descended into a state of barbarism and savagery, not really realizing that their world is an artificial starship, until somehow the truth is revealed.
Great stuff, highly recommended, and best of all, the science still stands up pretty well (perhaps better than anyone could have expected, since our real world has since had crises that this book in some ways predicts).
J'ai d'ailleurs bien envie de rapprocher cette quête de celles qu'on retrouve par exemple dans Le monde inverti ou même, et peut-être plus encore à cause de la lutte permanente contre un environnement naturellement hostile, dans La horde du contrevent, bien qu'il n'y ait pas vraiment de grande différence entre les deux(1).Et puis bien sûr il y a ce vaisseau, très loin de ce à quoi du space-op de bas étage nous habituerait(2) , avec ses multiples pannes, son côté assez fantastique, mais authentiquement expliquable, et puis bien sûr l'explication en elle-même(3).Bref, tout ça nous donne un univers saisissant, un personnage intéressant, une quête de soi absolument fascinant, et fort logiquement un bouquin vraiment réussi.
Tako se to i odvija u našoj priči… (nezahvalno je odavati suviše informacija budući da je roman počinje uglavnom od nule zajedno s glavnim likom, i kako napredujemo dobivamo novi komadić zagonetke.) Glavni lik je Roy Žalopoj (Roy Complain) i njegovo Zelen-pleme (Greene) koji žive u nekoj vrsti plemenske zajednice, svaki u skladu sa svojim dužnostima unutar plemena i pod budnim oko okrutnog i nazadnog "Učenja" koje je neka uvrnuta verzija Froydove psihoanalize.
Žalopoj (silom prilika) počinje otkrivati sve više da svijet nije onakav kakav izgleda, i da tamo vani postoji nešto puno više i drugačije – da svijet se zove brod!
a multi-generational ship has gone wrong, and the survivors live aboard the runaway ship, which has become a world of itself.
The main character, Roy Complain, goes on a quest to find meaning in his life and discovers both the history of his 'world' and the reality of it.This COULD have been a really cool exploration of evolution and societal development, but about 1/2 way through it changed to a battle against the 'Outsiders' that was super predictable and completely abandoned the other themes.
Then there's this race of almost sentient rats that developed, which I thought were going to be really important but then were just kinda forgotten.
The thing which creates a pattern.
Actually, I don't know that that's really the case, but that's what it feels like, as with all the Brian Aldiss books that I've read: he creates not just worlds, but patterns for worlds.
Here, the interstellar generation ship that nobody really knows is a generation ship.
I'm a big fan of Gene Wolfe's Long Sun books, and it feels like GW took a giant bow in Aldiss's direction when he wrote some of them."Like a radar echo bounding from a distant object and returning to its source, the sound of Roy Complain's beating heart seemed to him to fill the clearing.
If you still plan to read the book, skip the reviews you can find on the internet. They contain some spoilers that are better avoided.I liked the book very much. The setting is strange and the secrets are slowly revealed. The characters are carefully set up and my only complain is that their development wasn't realistic enough at the end of the book. Anyway, a good classic that is still a lot of fun to read. The Millenium SF Masterworks series is truly a remarkable series that doesn't disappoint.
Lately, I dont get hooked into classics. Specially sci-fi classics. Sometimes I know the ideas by heart from scratch. Sometimes I have read several books with the same topics. I know it is not their problem but mine. They are wonderful. Some of them, masterpieces, but I get bored with them.That didnt happened to me with "Non-stop". I supposed more or less what was going on from the very beginning even without having read reviews that contained spoilers. However I was always curious about the cha
Lately, I don´t get hooked into classics. Specially sci-fi classics. Sometimes I know the ideas by heart from scratch. Sometimes I have read several books with the same topics. I know it is not their problem but mine. They are wonderful. Some of them, masterpieces, but I get bored with them.That didn´t happened to me with "Non-stop". I supposed more or less what was going on from the very beginning even without having read reviews that contained spoilers. However I was always curious about the character´s (or the author´s) next step.I haven´t read a better book about this topic.
Skvělá sci-fi. Postupné odkrývání příběhu mě vtáhlo do děje.Jen konec mi přišel trochu uspěchaný (a tím koncem myslím poslední třetinu ne moc dlouhé knihy). Dovedu si představit, že by kniha měla klidně o 200 stran víc a konec byl trochu víc natažený.Každopádně doporučuju.
This 1959 story is a classic generation ship sf story. It's not typical of what I have come to expect from later Brian Aldiss, but rather a straight-forward adventure story of the discovery of on-ship reality. I did enjoy it.
The paradigma book on genarational interestelar ships , the best
