https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149607.Breakheart_Pass
Had this on my "to be read" shelf for ages.
A fast paced and action fueled western/thriller/mystery.
Most of the story unfolds on a relief train travelling to the isolated, cholera stricken Fort Humboldt, but all is not as it seems.Had an inkling very early on as to the motives of the assembled characters.
It was clear cut as to who the "bad guys" were going to be.
However from a purely entertainment point of review well,......
I was entertained.
The story does move along at breakneck speed.
Certainly a very different setting to the Alistair MacLean novels I've read in the past.
It's a good story, but the quality of the writing is abominable. It reads like a first draft.
On paper Deakin is too clever both for the plot and the reader, concocting not too exciting methods of escaping the train and dealing with the evildoers, methods he keeps to himself and, well, keeps to everyone but the reader, saying things like "I've got a plan" fittingly at the end of the chapter, allowing the author to jump to another scene at the opening of the next chapter and leaving us in the dark.
"The Long Arm of Coincidence..." Is That a Thing?!
A not-quite-classic Western train mystery that barrels its way down the track from start to finish.
Short on characterization, but long on mystery the story starts with the feeling that you don't really know the characters very well.
The author gives a printed list of the characters and a map of the train layout at the beginning, and I found myself referring back to that list until almost a third of the way through the book.
I suggest starting this one early enough in the morning that you don't end up reading all night, because you won't be able to put it down.
But chances we cannot take." Considering my long relationship with MacLean, I'd really hate to say good-bye to him with Breakheart Pass (which btw is a cool sounding title - although the pass only plays a minor role in the story for about 10 pages near the end).
"Ο ριψοκίνδυνος", εκδόσεις ΒΙΠΕΡ.Αυτό είναι το τέταρτο βιβλίο του Άλιστερ Μακλίν που περνάει στη λίστα με τα διαβασμένα και μπορώ να πω ότι είναι καλύτερο από τα υπόλοιπα.
Μπορεί η περιπέτεια του βιβλίου να αργεί, κυρίως εμφανίζεται στα τελευταία κεφάλαια, μέχρι τότε όμως υπήρχε αρκετό μυστήριο και πολλές ύποπτες κινήσεις - όπως και φόνοι.
Ο Άλιστερ Μακλίν μπορώ να πω ότι μου ταιριάζει απόλυτα και γι'αυτό το λόγο είμαι χαρούμενος που έχω και τα 25 βιβλία του που έχουν μεταφραστεί στα ελληνικά (μπορεί να υπάρχουν και άλλα, αλλά δεν νομίζω).
S. Marshall Nathan Pearce knew that before Colonel Claremont refused his request to hitch a ride to Fort Humboldt to arrest Sepp Calhoun.
But when Pearce arrests a man – John Deakin – who is guilty of crimes against the people and the army, Claremont grudgingly allows them onto his train.As the train hurtles through the uninhabited wilderness towards the remote outpost, it becomes immediately obvious that a saboteur is aboard and intends to cripple the army’s force through murder and destruction.
I’ve complained before that MacLean writes tangled stories in which no one is who we think they are – not even the hero – and the plot line is foggy.
As much as I love Alistair MacLean, I'm afraid this book is one of his worst. Cluttered with adverbs and entertaining a somewhat predictable plot, with thin and stereotypical characters and poor dialogue, it reads like a first draft (typos included), and a sad one at that.It could never live up to the standard set by his other works, such as HMS Ulysses, San Andreas and Ice Station Zebra, not to mention the Navarone duo (The Guns of Navarone/Force 10 from Navarone).
This book takes place on an Army train in the American West in the 19th century after the Civil War. The train, under the command of Colonel Claremont, is full of relief troops and supplies, headed to Fort Humboldt, a remote mountain fort in Paiute Indian territory.
On its journey, there will be murders, conspiracies, sabotage, ambushes, rooftop fights, and Indians seeking revenge.
The action is non-stop, and at times it is somewhat hectic, with one plot twist after another.
Basically, this book is all about action and suspense, and it does an excellent job of delivering both.
An entertaining thriller. Almost every scene is tense from start to finish. A part of the book is a brilliant whodunnit and then it's out and out action. It's my first time reading a novel with a western american setting, you know, saloon bars, gunslingers, etc. and I enjoyed it very much. This is also my first time reading Alistair MacLean and I like his writing style. Going to read more of his books if they promise the same amount of thrilling action all through the book.
3.6 is the average rating and exactly right. This was fun, and I can see why it was made into a movie. The female character was less weak than MacLean's usual useless beauties and actually helped the situation. I couldn't put it down. Definitely a fun beach/pool/recuperating from back injury book.
Alistair MacLean is my favorite spy novelist from the 1950s and 1960s. Although this one, veers off into new territory by taking place after the civil war. Still suspenseful and exciting. Still fun. Very nostalgic. I cut my teeth on these when I was in Junior High/High School.
Good YarnSome minor inconsistencies here and there, probably due to Mr. MacLean being English. But a fun read with some twists and turns. The book also spawned a rarely decent film.
I like Alistair MacLean's books and assumed I would love Breakheart Pass.
But whereas I expected some straight up fight (sort of like a Die Hard style of book), it was far more intricate than that.
Probably closer to Murder On The Orient Express.A cavalry relief train is leaving Reese City bound for Fort Humbolt in the Colorado Rockies.
Excitement and intrigue, some really good fight scenes, crisp dialog, a really interesting setting, and a plot that keeps you guessing until the very end.I really loved this book and would highly recommend it to anyone seeking a solid western or an espionage novel in the best tradition of Alistair MacLean
I enjoyed this one far more than any of these probably because I particularly like historic novels based in the 19th Century.
Apart from Clive Cussler's Isaac Bell series, I don't think I've read a book of this specific genre, albeit Cussler's books are set slightly later in time.The author's writing is superb, as always.
The characters are all well described and you can easily picture them in your head, always a good sign.
The plot is great, involving a wide range of both renegades and good guys, not to mention the red indians.
If you like this period of American History, this is definitely worth a read.
The story starts with a troop train traveling through the Rocky Mountains in the winter of 1873 with a destination of a remote Army outpost in Nevada that is supposedly plagued with cholera.
On the train are relief troops, medical supplies, other provisions and a wanted outlaw in the custody of a United States Marshal.
Once the train gets underway, everything changes.
The story takes several twists and turns filled with action and adventure.
No one, with the exception of few, are what they appear to be.
It can be a little unbelievable at times, but the superb writing skills of Alistair MacLean makes this an enjoyable read.
MacLean is a mixed author for me, with some books I love, and some books I hate, and this is one that occupies the middle space, so it's OK as a quick, cheap read when you're on a long car ride or something; otherwise, Breakheart Pass isn't special, and quickly forgettable. It has some nice dialogue, but I just felt that the characters were all rather flat and undeveloped. Still, and OK read, which I give 5/10, or in the case of Goodreads: 2/5. Please visit my blog for more Reviews, Parent Guides, and Chapters of my own book: http://ibrahiemreviews.blogspot.com.tr/
How could a Scotsman possible write a decent Western? I was dubious, and therefore my critical faculties were on hair trigger as I read through the first couple of chapters of the book. Nevertheless, I became more and more absorbed in this suspenseful tale of a train ride through wintry wilderness to an Army fort stricken with illness. Something is amiss, someone is not what they seem, and MacLean is such a master of plot that you can't figure out how it's going to end. Yep, I'm recommending people read this western by a Scot. You'll enjoy it.
Going back to an old favorite, yes, finally something fun and exciting to read.
Not perfect: I knew whom the hero was from the start, I sensed whom at least one of the villains was early, but unpredictable enough that the two characters I thought were villains because they were so over the top were not.
No deep characters, all playing a role.
Some non creativity: MacLean used the name of the Indians and the snow topped roofs in other books.But fun, exciting, easy to read, unlike so much I've read lately, so 4 stars.
Muscular adventure yarn, with strong pacing and an impressive story. The dialogue and characters would have benefited from more vivid details--and vulgarity and bad language--but it all makes for a suspenseful western with some good twists. The intake of enormous injuries, not to mention numerous characters surviving endless treks across speeding train roofs, often grows wearisome and leads one to doubt the normality of some of the people involved in all this athletic combat. A good book to read in a warm bed.
Vroeger was ik een groot fan van Alistair MacLean (vooral de eerste boeken), dus deze heb ik herlezen.Viel mij knap tegen. Het hangt van onwaarschijnlijkheden en een teveel aan intriges aan elkaar. Taalgebruik is zwak, achtergrond van niemand komt ook maar enigszins uit de verf (alle personages zijn stereotype en zo plat als een pannenkoek), bepaalde tekstfragmenten herhalen zich, soms zelfs op dezelfde bladzijde.Hier heeft de schrijver zich met een Jantje van Leiden afgemaakt; goed dat er toen nog geen schrijfwedstrijden werden georganiseerd...Met gekromde tenen uitgelezen.
This happens to be my first one on the Wild West and I must say it leaves me intrigued. Picturesque, sometimes grotesque, this would perhaps be one of his best works. The long, complex sentences told with a monotonicity that is matched only by the Macleanean skill of keeping the reader engrossed, are an added bonus.If you love the West, the Indians and outlaws, have a read. Satisfaction guaranteed.
I really enjoyed this thriller, which had a few twists and turns in it that had me surprised, but which worked really well. The action all takes place on a train which is on its way to a remote fort through some mountains in the snow. The train is carrying troops, a doctor, priest, colonel, governor and his niece, and are joined by a lawman and his prisoner. As the train goes through there are various incidents which increase the tension of those on board. A quick , easy read.
A fast-paced Western thriller. A train's steaming toward a remote Nevada fort, seemingly on a rescue mission. A signature MacLean twist plays a huge part in this tale that's filled with double crosses, action and fun. I liked this considerably better than Circus, which was published a year later in a period, I know, that is not considered MacLean's best.
This book held no surprises, probably because I've read it several times and seen the movie more than once. Still, I thought the story was good. The plot is okay, and while I would have liked more character development, the characters were believable enough. I recommend it if you're looking for a light western adventure.
One of his very best efforts! Set in the wild west in the 1870's, MacLean's most common hero, the few-worded hard-ass fits unusually well here. I watched the Bronson-movie more times than I can count and I'm sure I got the two mixed up in my head, so I won't ensnare myself in any details here. It takes place on a train, mostly. Fun!
I *love* MacLean (or McLean) but didn't remember reading this one from my callow youth, though I vaguely remember the Bronson movie (because, probably, Bronson). So I just read it, and yeah, not that great. Though I'll fight anyone who argues that When Eight Bells Tolls isn't the greatest novel of all time.
This is probably my favourite of Alastair Maclean's later books. It was a book I downloaded to my Kindle and it is great that otherwise out of print books can now be available. I just wish they would make a better job of producing the books as this one was littered with typos.
Just after the Civil War, an Army relief train speeds to a fort in Indian territory which is reportedly in the midst of a cholera epidemic. As the train approaches, mysterious accidents occur and tensions rise. This one is quite suspenseful and the movie version with Charlie Bronson is fun too.
Pulled this off the shelf to re-rad before sending it to the used bookstore. I remembered this as being a better read. Skip it and look for the movie, starring Charles Bronson. One of those rare cases where the film surpasses the source material.
