https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4952.What_Is_the_What
Dave Eggers, who is easily one of my favorite fiction writers, has donated the proceeds of the book to a foundation co-founded by he and Valentino (www.valentinoachackdeng.org).The writing is brilliant and the story is compelling...but I think what makes the book so great for me is the sheer tragedy of this boy's life and the unbelieveable sense of courage and optimism he showed throughout a life that would have caused most people to simply give up.
It takes a certain and rare kind of writer to make a story about civil war, genocide, and a refugee crisis boring and unreadable; that writer, specifically, is Dave Eggers.
At points it reads like a parody of an American trying to imitate an African (oh, wait, it is, although Dave Eggers has probably at least met some, so I don't know what his excuse is).
After all, young Valentino's story would have remained untold - if it were not for the Deus Ex Maquina of Dave Eggers, who tells it like no one else can.
Those days are coming back again in my near future — ‘review retirement ‘—- but that’s another story (to review?-ha)....But I’d like to share a little about this book.
It’s the type of book that leaves a lasting impression.
This is a great book!It was horrific how the Lost Boys lived day after day in Sudan- starving - being chased from village location to the next - disease - killing - etc....and there is another appalling story to read about as well.
It’s a novel that reads like a memoir.
( I’m leaving out lots of details)....but in a very short time -new in his apt.
These words were directed at the subject of this novel/biography and are pretty much a motif that runs throughout most of this book.This is one man’s true story of the Lost Boys of the Sudan.
Valentino Achak Deng, at age seven, and thousands of boys just like him, endured all manner of hardship as they fled their homes as civil war (beginning in 1983) devastated their country.
Repeating a litany of hardships these boys endured would render them trivial.
It’s inconceivable for me to imagine my own son at age seven (seven!?!) making this type of journey.
TOO MUCH, AND NOT ENOUGH : A PARADOX With her open and confident sexuality, she was the constant igniter of everything flammable within usHmm, if this Sudanese refugee & now American Valentine Achak Deng can turn a phrase like that, how come he needs Dave Eggars to shape his book and cop the byline?
Now since it's the clunky uber-sincere stilted voice which tells 98% of this long tale, why is this book not bylined like all those celeb autobiographies - "by Valentine Achak Deng, as told to Dave Eggars".
Now the narrator of the autobiography (or, the fictional entity that Dave Eggers was conjuring up when he was pretending to be Achak) ...
Maybe the real VAD wouldn't have discussed philosophical matters in such a public forum as a book, and maybe that's why Dave Eggers, in pretending to be Achak, left these kinds of discussion out.
Honestly, I think the real VAD could do a much better job of writing his autobiography than Dave Eggers did of pretending to be him.This fictionalized autobiography device simply DID NOT WORK.Now, to be fair (and this is why the book gets 2 stars for "it was ok" instead of 1), there were a few parts of the book that I enjoyed.
Too much.Valentino Achak Deng is one of the lost boys of the civil war in Sudan.
He survived a genocide, walking from Sudan to Ethiopia where boys were getting picked off one by one by lions in the night.
The story is moving, and Dave Eggers can sure turn a phrase, but there was so much detail.....(oh my poor overloaded head) if this hadn't been an audiobook I never would have gotten through it.But that does not mean that I don't admire Valentino, or that I believe his story (and that of Sudan) should not have been told.
I didn't get to it for so long in part thanks to reviews on here that called it boring, unreadable, a mess, lacking structure and characterization, on and on, all of which I can now officially deem sort of nutso -- more a result of Eggersfraude most likely than anything else.
At most maybe the second half is 100 pages too long, could've been accelerated in parts, but overall it sure seemed to me like a gripping quasi-autobiographical novel, conventionally structured in alternating sections of front and back story that more or less unite at the end, with the narrator directly addressing various front-story characters when he tells his history.
A friend of mine who has lived and worked in Sudan vouched unreservedly for its authenticity and inoffensiveness and lent me her copy; I’m not mad at her.Dave Eggers more or less avoids cheapening his subject, weakening his message or losing credibility for the duration of a book comprised of stories that would tempt a narrator with less integrity to deploy every variety of manipulative, sensationalist, suspenseful and tear-jerking prose.
I'm having trouble coming up with the right word to describe reading this book.
"Enjoyed" is definitely not the right word - although the book is well-written, it's hard to call it enjoyable, nor is it trying to be.
Something seems facile and reductionist about that, to reduce the story to something that affected me briefly, as if it is all about me.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Dave Eggers tells Achack's story much like you would hear it if you had befriended the Sudanese refugee yourself.
it's just that i haven't had a conversation like this before, one that starts with a burglary in Atlanta, draws you back to a small village in soutern Sudan, and marches you in and out of Ethiopia, the jungles, the rivers, the lions stare, over the bodies, into the refugee camps, into love, out of heartbreak.
what i am left with is the word war, how small it is.
like boy.
give us a better world to match this boy.
È un libro che racconta la vita, che ti prende per mano e non ti lascia più.È un libro che sarà difficile dimenticare.Perché non si deve e non si può dimenticare.Confesso, quando ho girato la copertina per iniziare a leggerlo, alla vista della cartina del Sudan, di aver pensato ‘’Oh no, questo libro è ambientato in Africa...
Dopo averlo letto, e si deve leggerlo, Valentino Achak Deng non sarà più solo un nome, perché vorrai dargli un volto, sapere come vive e come vive la sua gente, in Sudan.
Even up to the very end, 30 pages from the end, then 20, then 10, then 5, I kept thinking, "Isn't this over yet?" I keep wondering if not being crazy about this novel makes me a bastard, because not only does the book aim to educate people about the staggering crisis in southern Sudan, but Dave Eggers donated 100% of the proceeds to help build schools, public libraries, etc., in the protagonist's war-torn village.
I find discussing the book more interesting than the actual reading of it, namely, debating about Eggers's decision to write the book as a work of fiction despite the fact that the protagonist is a living person.
A while back I'd slogged through the simultaneously compelling and and head-scratchingly-moribund epic "Acts of Faith" by Philip Caputo which dealt with the Sudanese Civil War (of the mid-1980s through today) and ensuing humanitarian efforts; while I wasn't terribly impressed by that novel, it did leave me with many questions about the situation in Sudan, many of which were addressed (if not exactly answered) by the far-superior "novel" "What Is the What" by Dave Eggers.I put quotes around novel primarily because it's not a novel in the classical sense of the term; it's more a first-person account from the very real Valentino Achak Deng as written by Eggers (whose soleraison d'etre these days is to give a voice to the disenfranchised).
ugh.... I had read Heartbreaking Work and did not enjoy it, but I thought I'd give Eggers another chance. I'm plodding through this book and have been since March. I'm sad about it, because I'm interested by the subject matter. Oh well, lots of people disagree with me, so "you don't have to take MY word for it!"
It's one of those stories that forces you to recognize what an unfathomably huge place this world is, and that things happen every day that would be almost impossible for most of us to even imagine.
Reading a book like this puts my own life into perspective, and although it's not feasible to constantly maintain a downward comparison (because let's face it, no matter who you are, there's always someone who's worse off), it forces you to recognize that your own problems are so insignificant in the grand scheme of things.Dave Eggers did an incredible job telling Achak's story - his narration is so simple and easy to read, but very eloquent and powerful at the same time.
It’s one of those rare books that are really easy to read, really gripping—it will grip you!—but also globally consequential.What is the What, by Dave Eggers, is a docu-drama-type "novel" based on the real life of Valentino Achak Deng.
I don’t know if there’s a word strong enough to sum up this guy’s life — the tragedy, trauma, loss, deprivation — but it was crazy to read his story and know it had all really happened while I sat around watching Seinfeld and picking the onions off my cheeseburger.Things that are really great about this book:1.
While I've really liked, even loved, several of the books I've read so far this year, I haven't really felt blown away by anything.
I was looking for something that was going to blow me away, and I thought this book might fit the bill.
Luckily for me, I turned out to be totally right.This book succeeds completely on two levels.
The book is longer than it looks--more than 500 pages--but they go by swiftly.
But I truly believe What Is the What is going to be one of those books that's still being read decades from now.
Even if you've been aware of what happened in the Sudan, I expect hearing about what the people endured as part of the story of an individual life would still be eye-opening.
While Eggers has a fantastic sense of voice and really personalizes all of the characters, the overall handling of the plot arc felt clumsy and gimmicky at times, and the way the historical material is introduced through the Valentino's present-day inner monologue addressed at various people in his daily life gets to be a tired trick after a while.
This book is the fictionalized autobiography of real-life Sudanese refugee Valentino Achak Deng, who grew up mostly in a refugee camp in Kenya (where he lived for 10 years!)Eggers weaves a present tense with the story of Valentino's childhood in Sudan.
Coming to America was the first time in his life where he chose the What -- the first time he was free to make his own choice.After finishing the book, I remembered a point earlier in the story where Tabitha and Valentino traveled to Nairobi (where they share their first kiss), and she urged him to run away from their group and not return to the refugee camp.
Purportedly there is a guy named (among other names) Valentino Achak Deng, and Dave Eggers wrote what you might take to be a transcribed and well-edited autobiography of the man and his amazing, tortured journey as a child refugee of the Sudanese civil war.
But to declare such an important biography to be fiction at its outset, and then at the end of the book to solicit donations for the eponymous foundation of Valentino Achak Deng, without even a hint of a promise that the author has spoken the truth?
Con questa ho seguito il cammino dei "ragazzi perduti" in fuga dalla guerra che insanguina il Sudan per raggiungere i campi profughi prima dell'Etiopia e poi del Kenia.
E poi per accettare una diaspora che porterà molti di loro negli Stati Uniti, con la speranza che accomuna tutti: un po' di soldi per non patire la fame, una moglie da amare e da cui essere amati, per poter pensare a fare bambini, e dar loro una casa.Tutto ciò che fa muovere il mondo, tutti noi, una vita normale, un lavoro dove non ci sia una guerra.
"What is the What is the soulful account of my life: from the time I was separated from my family in Marial Bai to the thirteen years I spent in Ethiopian and Kenyan refugee camps, to my encounter with vibrant Western cultures beginning in Atlanta, to the generosity and the challenges that I encountered elsewhere," Valentino Achak Deng writes.Dave Eggers did such a great job bringing Deng's story to life, that I enjoyed this book even more than I did Egger's memoir.
When the civil war between the north and the south of Sudan reaches Achak's far western Dinka village of Marial Bai, he is a child of about seven years old who still spends most of his time with his mother, or playing on the floor of his father's general store.
He can only flee, running as far as he can.He finally comes upon a large group of boys like him being led by his old teacher, a young man called Dut Majok, who has a tendency to lead them in circles but never stops looking out for the boys and sees them, after months of walking and encounters with lions, crocodiles and hostile villagers, to Ethiopia and the refugee camp called Pinyudo on the Gilo River.
On the cosmic scale of noble publishing ventures, “What is the What” must rank near the top. Though billed as a novel, the book is the story of one of the Lost Boys of Sudan by the name of Valentino Achak Deng and, though written by Dave Eggers, all proceeds from the book go to Deng's foundation. Noble.Deng’s story is a harrowing one. A brief and characteristic example comes after he buries a friend during the long march (spoiler-redacted); ”When I was finished, I told (him) that I was sorry. I
The subject, and the telling, clearly hold immeasurable dramatic power, so why did I give the book three stars?This was my first foray into Dave Eggers territory, so I can’t say with any erudition whether the voice, as some have complained, is that of the author rather than his subject - that’s one of the problems with writing a book like this, I guess.
The story of Valentino Achak Deng is in some ways a classic one, of total loss and the noble struggle to regain the barest foundation of his humanity; the simple recognition that his existence matters.
It’s not a question on the lips of most folks who read this compelling and exhausting account of Valentino Achek Deng, whose life story is the most torturous, unbelievable, and fortuitous you are likely to encounter.
Eggers narrates this incredible true tale in Sudanese Deng’s English-speaking voice, from his struggles with conflict, poverty, desolation, desperation (and more or less any human suffering it is possible to tolerate) to his equally unhappy life as a refugee in post 9/11 America.This book makes misery memoirs look like squealing little crybabies.
Yemek getirdiğini düşündükleri helikopterlere koşan çocukların karşılık olarak mermi yedikleri bir coğrafyayı düşünün. Bir de şunu ekleyin: Uçurtma Avcısı ve Bin Muhteşem Güneş'in yazarı Khaled Hosseini'nin son zamanlarda okuduğu en etkileyici roman.Sanırım ne ile karşı karşıya olduğunuzu az çok anlatabildim. İnsanın boğazında düğüm bir kitap, orası kesin.
The story goes back and forth between his new life in Atlanta and his remembrances of his homeland and his long walk from there to Ethiopia, and later to Kenya, where he lived most of his formative years in refugee camps.
We are lead to believe in news stories that refugee camps are temporary, that someday these people are returned to their homes or families.
The living conditions in the States, once the Lost Boys are relocated around the country, are paltry and inadequate, but luxurious to Achak, now known as Valentino, when compared to the camps.
He runs from his village under attack and just continues to run from refugee stop to stop, with violence and uncertainty trailing him."I do not want to think of myself as important enough the God would choose me for extraordinary punishment, but then again, the circumference of calamity that surrounds me is impossible to ignore."This “circumference of calamity” seems to expand exponentially as the book switches between his childhood and current day, when he is being robbed and held prisoner in Atlanta.
Het verhaal is hartverscheurend en zou, zeker in deze tijden, door iedereen gelezen moeten worden.
Alleen was ik niet zo hard onder de indruk van de manier waarop het is geschreven, waardoor ik het bij momenten moeilijk had om erdoor heen te geraken.
Ik ben uiteindelijk blij dat ik ben blijven worstelen, en zo het volledige verhaal van Valentino Achak Deng heb gelezen.
Dat ik door de ogen van een jongen uit Soedan naar de wereld heb kunnen kijken, ook.
Dat alleen al was verbijsterend, bij momenten, los van wat er zich aan wreedheden in dat land afspeelt.
