https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10455151-the-carnival-of-death
This book collects two stories from the early part of Hubbard's pulp career, the title story from the November, 1934, issue of Popular Detective magazine, and The Death Flyer from the April, 1936, issue of Mystery Novels Magazine.
I didn't much care for the badly-dated The Carnival of Death, which is a drug-smuggling investigation set at a carnival; it seemed a little clumsy with stock characters and unfortunate clichés like head-hunting cannibals from Nigeria.
This is another volume in the Galaxy Press series of Hubbard's pulp tales, all of which are very pleasingly presented with the original illustrations, a glossary, and nice hard-stock uniformly designed covers.
This is about a series of murders at a carnival.
The corpses were beheaded and there are lots of action sequences (including ones at a haunted house and mirror maze).This is probably my least favorite of the Hubbard stories I’ve read, which is weird.
I love carnivals and haunted houses and I find mirror mazes insanely creepy.
(Also people who behead other people.) So I don’t know why this one didn’t work for me, except that it all felt very rushed.
(Which may be because the story is 69 pages long, so there’s not much time for things like nuance and character development.)
L. Ron Hubbard wrote hundreds of these potboilers. Not great literature, by any means, they are time capsules of American idioms of the 1930's and 40's. They're the literary equivalent of WAMU's Big Broadcast on Sunday evenings, loaded with tough-guy jargon and purple prose. I like them, and they are downloadable for free!!
It’s pretty fun finding out, and there is a ton of action in this whiz-bang style pulp story that is very Norvell Page-like in both pacing and presentation.
It moves so fast there’s no time to be bored, and there is plenty of seedy carnival atmosphere — pulp style, nothing deeper — to augment the fights and chases and headless bodies.
There is a wonderful little ending which suggests he might be riding the Death Flyer over and over, until he gets it right!While this is nothing more than pulp, I found these two short stories to be great fun.
I liked The Carnival of Death and was surprised with how few pages as this author tends to write tomes! If you know the author, you'll know he writes stories from the 40's and 50's, I liked US narcotics agent Bob Clark with his "Bogey" style as he fought to find the killer in the carnival and the dope smuggler using the carnival for evil. I loved that there was teasing short stories to wet my appetite for more.
Sometimes a short and simple story is necessary and this one fit the bill. This was my first L. Ron Hubbard book and I enjoyed his writing. It was short, had a lot of action, didn't have a long drug out ending that wasn't really an ending. I've always liked books like this one. I can't wait to read more of his books.
A great, quick listen-perfect for the car!
Meh. Scooby Doo-ish. Didn't excite me or give me any real emotion. Just kinda zombied thru it.
My library has a whole bunch of these and I was immediately drawn to their garish covers. "Carnival of Death"... Oh my... the writing is so... pulpy. It was rather fun reading this through a historical viewpoint into pulp fiction, but it was really only fun for that reason. It was a quick read, but I thought it was rather poorly written. However, it's obvious why pulp fiction was such a thing because it was fast-paced, full of action, and quick to read. "Death Flyer", the second story in this, was (I thought) much better but a great deal shorter.
It’s an audiobook with a collection of two short stories, the latter one being a tale of ghosts.
With over 300 works, Hubbard wrote in different story genre, including Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery, Romance, Science Fiction, and Western.
All, making this an enjoyable experience.Even though these adventure stories were first published almost 80 years ago, I enjoyed listening to them today while believing that they could have just as easily been written within the last few years.
A great listen for anyone wanting to enjoy good short stories on a long road-trip.
Overall, if you like adventure stories, this audiobook is probably worth listening.
I enjoyed the performances of the voice actors in The Headless Corpse, which was the first story I listened to.
I liked the ending of Headless Corpse, but as I listened to the stories I wondered how L.
But, I just don't have the 1935 tastes to really enjoy this like I wanted to.Also, I'm a black woman, so I couldn't help but notice certain elements of the story.
I only listened to The Headless Corpse so maybe the other story was better.
If I listen to it I'll re-evaluate this 3 star rating.Thank you very much to Galaxy & Goodreads for the opportunity to honestly review this work.
Clark to act as the carnival detective, and discover the drug connection.
Following a set of railroad tracks, he’s suddenly caught in them as a train approaches.
He’s among a train of ghosts.
Ten years ago this train ran off the tracks and fell into a river, killing all on board.
It’s up to Jim to stop the train this time, if he can.
This was a fun book, both stories topnotch, and though I enjoyed the mystery, I loved the ghost story best.
I just haven’t read a ghost story in years, and this one was so much fun, it made me want to read more of them.
**I won this audio book through the First Reads Giveaway program**Let's be honest, L.
Ron Hubbard needs no introduction, and truthfully, writing a review for an L.
Ron Hubbard book just seems silly because who DOESN'T know L.
Ron Hubbard book at one time or another?
However, my work/school obligations DO require me to drive almost four hours each day, so I thought, "Hey, I'll give it a try." Well, I really enjoyed it.
I also really liked the narrator's voice; it is perfect for reading Hubbard.
I'd never read it before, and I REALLY enjoyed it.
It was only natural then that one of America’s rising pulp fiction stars would set his sights on the carnival as the location for one of his hardboiled and spectacular stories.
Ron Hubbard’s The Carnival of Death is pulp fiction at its best.
Exciting, daring, fast-paced and populated with memorable characters, The Carnival of Death was exactly the thrill ride that patrons of carnivals and pulp readers demanded.
In The Carnival of Death U.S. narcotics agent Bob Clark is working undercover at Shreve’s Mammoth Carnival when he encounters a headless body.
Ron Hubbard’s best short supernatural stories.
Carnival of Death is a short story from the Pulp Fiction era.
It's about an undercover U.S. narcotics agent Bob Clark who's been working with a Carnival, trying to find the person behind the cocaine ring going on at the carnival.
Clark works hard to figure out who's behind it all while trying to avoid his own beheading and death.Carnival of Death is a fast-paced book, full of mystery and questions, but honestly, it's just isn't my type of book.
I wasn't always so sure of what was going on or who was who as the story was so short.
This story takes place in the 1930s.
The story was really interesting but I had trouble hearing parts of the audio.The second story on the audio The Death Flyer takes place on a ghost train filled with all kinds of ghosts.
This is a story about a man that finds himself on a train that history has already been determined,this train has already wrecked and the people he comes in contact with are already dead and what ever he does he cannot change the outcome of what happened with this train wreck.I have already mentioned that this is my first audio book.
A thank you to Galaxy Press for a free copy of this eBook, and an even larger thank you for being patient while I set reviews to the side for six months and finished my university degree.
Ron Hubbard's works for a while and was glad to see I'd won this story in eBook format so that I could listen to it on one of my long drives home from uni every few weeks.
As an eBook, it was well done - voices easy to follow and matched to the pace and dynamics of the story - but nothing exceptional.
Two stories in this one, "Carnival of Death" and "The Death Flyer." First is a murder mystery set (you guessed it) in a carnival.
In the end it works out like a murder mystery, but it's pretty way out.
Sort of like when you cram pieces of a jigsaw puzzle together to make them fit.
I mean, isn't that sort of a human rights violation or something?"The Death Flyer" was the better story here.
A ghost story, it managed to have its creepy moments although the ending (view spoiler)[ was dangerously close to an "it was all a dream" kind of thing (hide spoiler)].
Although it has all the ingredient for a L.Ron Hubbard "classic" - the handsome,sentimental and always honest hero, the pretty girl, the mystery and suspence, the gruesome deaths - I must confess that I was a little disappointent is the story itself because I found hard to believe that one single law agent - one man - was able to solve a very intricate case without the help of anybody else.
I honestly found it hard to believe.
So, a little artifact, but still a good story nonetheless.
I haven't received my copy yet, just received notice I had won.
10/16/13Received my copy and was dismayed to see it was an audio book.
Can he solve the case he was sent to solve while also trying to solve the murders?Okay, again, I am not an audio book fan.
This was better than other audio books I have listened to, but I still feel paper books are so superior.
The story was interesting enough, I just don't know how much I missed listening to it in 5 minutes here and maybe 10 minutes there.
Dramatic, old-fashioned detective story with a little bit of head-hunter legend thrown in it, this story reminds me of the newsreels of people gathered around their radio listening to the popular radio shows.
This story includes sound effects, reading in different voices to help listeners differentiate between characters, lots of fighting, lots of drama, and constant action.
The only thing I didn't care for was it was read so damn fast.
We listened in the car though, and sometimes people talk and interrupt!!
Yes, I recommend people try out one of these CDs for nostalgia sake or for a history lesson.
Keep reading my fellow bookworms!!
Audiobooks were a huge staple for me when commuting for an hour and a half each day, and I must say this one does not disappoint.
L.Ron Hubbard is a genius at the pulp storytelling and I almost feel that having the book read to me on tape was like one of those old timey radio programs.
The storyline was quick-paced and full of action and suspense.
It definitely reinforced the air of the 1930s and 40s.
Definitely worth a listen and I will likely pop it into the CD player again when I run out of new material to hear.
I won this from First Reads Giveaways.I really liked listening to this book on tape.
I can't see as well as I used to, so listening to the book on my cd player -- in my car, or at home while I'm cooking -- is pretty perfect for me.
Lots of suspense, lots of death, African head-hunters, a gypsy fortune teller, and lots of L.
Ron Hubbard grit.
What could be better?The Death Flyer by Hubbard is also on this audiobook.
I had read it a long time ago, but it was nice to hear it again.
This is my first audiobook, which I also won from LibraryThing.
I plan to try more audiobooks real soon!The walk through the carnival of death was a treat for me.
Huge fan of Carnivals, Dark and eerie settings.
Really enjoyed the music before chapters.
The cast of characters and voice overs I think they did a great job.
Oh and L Ron Hubbard is a kickass writer.Almost forgot about.
The other short on this audiobook "Death Flyer" was well told.
A train ride with the lurking dead, a whisper in the ear.
Another eerie tale, that gives the golden era a thumbs up.
I won this Audio CD book from Galaxy through GoodReads, first-reads giveaway. Thank you.I like the action, murder and mayhem plus the music and sound effects added a lot to the story which is great. I also really liked The Death Flyer, a mystery story which is included. They are both a smooth, well written, fast read, flawlessly read and directed with feeling and emotions by Jim Meskimen and Tait Ruppert along with the rest of the cast. I think my grandchildren will like these stories as well.
I won this Audio CD book from Galaxy through GoodReads, first-reads giveaway.
I should also fairly mention that this was my first attempt at reading via an Audio CD book so I don't know if I am just not an audio reader or what but I had a real hard time following along with the book.
While I love both murder mysteries and carnivals and was excited to read a story that was a combination of both elements, it just wasn't working for me.
On a positive note the sound effects mixed in with the story were very helpful at capturing my attention and were a good addition to the reading of the story.
“I received this audio book as a part of the Library Thing Free Book Advance and loved listening to it. I find these books by L. Ron Hubbard very easy to listen to. I love that these stories are around 2 hours in length so they are good for short drives. I thought that the story contained plenty of action and the narrator did a fantastic job building up the suspense at the times it was needed. I would highly recommend that people pick these (Stories from the Golden Age) books up, because they are well worth it.
Two stories: "Carnival of Death" and "The Death Flyer." Both are wildly different examples of pulp fiction. The first is a quick-and-dirty two-fisted detective story, written fast and on the cheap with all the exclamation points, plot holes, and questionable sentiments one might expect from pulp of the time. The second is a story that — while still cheap and fast — has aspirations to be more and focuses more on suspense and mood than bare-knuckles action.
Classic Pulp Fiction. A quick read and perhaps worth reading as representative of its genre, but annoying in that whenever the story appears about to (thankfully)end, the author throws in another death or two just to drag the story out (he was paid by the word). The protagonist tolerates more beatings by heavy objects than a professional wrestler.  The second story in this volume, "the Death Flyer" is actually a much better story and a ghost story to boot.
I received "The Carnival of Death" by L. Ron Hubbard free from Goodreads for a review.This is a compilation of 2 short stories. Mr. Hubbard is widely known for his sci-fi book. The primary short story is a mystery, while the second one reminds me of a twilight zone episode. Because the stories are short there is very little character development. overall neither stories were anything special or memorable.
