https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13131.The_6th_Target
Apart from one or two that I haven't totally enjoyed, the Women's Murder Club series are a really good read.
This "The 6th Target" written by James Patterson together with Maxine Paetro is a fast moving, edge of your seat thriller in the usual Patterson style, quick tense chapters, an excellent storyline running alongside smaller plots that all come together successfully at the end.
Ive collected all these books to the series over the years but just never got round to reading them, I'm glad I've started to now - I really feel like I personally know Lindsay Boxer and the girls and look forward to reading the 7th in the series.
I have decided I am a fan of this series.
The 6th Target is typical of the series.
It has a couple of different police cases going on, one involving a mass murderer and the other child abduction.
All four members of the Women's Murder Club are involved to varying degrees although Lyndsey has the most significant role.
Time is also spent in the court room and these chapters are written well.So a perfect book to read in a doctor's waiting room, on a plane or as light relief between other more onerous books.
I have to keep reading these because I started them...but wow are they getting bad.
The latest left it wide open for the 7th book.
also, I was left to wonder, if this person was doped up as strongly as he was...how was he still so clever?I am tried of Lindsey's whinning.
More then anything, I don't see the appeal of Lindsey's hardly-seen boyfriend Joe...why is she pinning for him again?
Beats me.
Apparently beats her too since she keeps breaking up with him.
Whoops, my bad.
And again this book had 3 different plots...confusing and frustrating.I will read 7 just to be done!
I usually enjoy James Paterson's books definitely not for his writing, but at least for his suspensful stories, but The 6th Target fell a little short for me.
There was hardly any character development and I felt like he wrote the book just to get another "Best Seller" under his belt.
As far as the Women's Murder Club series goes, I have only read the first one, which I really enjoyed.
This being the 6th book in the series, I got the impression that James Paterson really has no idea how to write about women.
While Claire fights for her life Lindsay and her new partner, Rich Conklin, pick up the case, and solving this one is personal.
series and the books continue to thrill me with the suspenseful story lines while keeping me hooked as to the happenings of the four friends, Lindsay, Claire, Yuki, and Cindy.
Even with everything happening it's easy to follow and even though it's the sixth in the series the story lines and crimes remain new and original, the characters are as fresh and interesting as ever.
If you've been following my reviews of this series you'll know that this is the second time I've listened to these audio books.
I feel that there is too much going on in this book.
It begins with a major shooting, where one of the women in this group gets shot.
The trial of this murderer continues throughout the book, while other cases are happening, like some murders at an apartment building, and a kidnapping of little girl (who happens to be someone’s boss’ daughter).
Everything is connected, making this a stressful time for the club, but they don’t seem concerned.
Makes me wonder if he wrote it or if Maxine Paetro wrote it.
Is this series going to turn into a formula series, like Danielle Steel?
I am half way through this book and I have found myself actually skipping over whole chapters just finish the dang thing.
Not like the chapters are long, any one who has read James Patterson before knows that his chapters are only about a page long (seriously).
And even with skipping whole chapters I still know exaclty what is going on.
This series isn't horrible, but I would only start if there is nothing else to read.
In fact I didn't even finish this book, (skipped to the end and read the last couple of chapters).
The last book turned into a slightly interesting but not exciting story of a trial and I thought this one was going to follow that same path.
I can but wonder if I should commend lead author James Patterson for openly sharing credit with Maxine Paetro who is also listed as a co-author on the cover or castigate him for taking the credit and royalties for a book written by someone else.
I can only Google and grin querulously about the relationship of the writers as Patterson is given book jacket kudos and Maxine “lives with her husband in New York.” I am somewhat embarrassed to admit that I bought several books in the Women’s Murder Club series drawn in by the promised but ultimately disappointing “Women’s” connection.
The mental illness discussed doesn't read like it was researched very well at all, and it wasn't handled in a way that created a menacing villain but a laughable one.And the romance between Lindsay and her meathead, dogooder boyfriend, Joe, goes to a new level of triteness.
I'd like other humans to read this with their eyeballs"; and also offensive that someone can write these scenes and think, "yes, this is how real human women would speak and behave with one another." This book has started the beginning of my actual physical loathing towards these women.
Read May 2014Starts out think that the character is crazy but then it was freaking me out because the character(view spoiler)[is really a sick person with mommy issue and jealously too. What he did to his sister and those people is unbelievable and I don't get how someone would consider him mental because he knew exactly what he did. (hide spoiler)]Re-read for a challenge- August 28,2016Still a good quick book to read and Lindsay is still a tough girl with a great heart.
DNF on page 50.I just can't get into this one.
This was definitely better than the ones I had previously read. There was a lot going on, but each was concluded in a realistic way.
What was I thinking going back to this series?
This one has 3 different crime stories which are not connected.
The main crime is a shooting spree on a ferry.
The killer is depicted throughout the book as being clearly insane, but when he is found not guilty by reason of insanity the author suddenly turns him into a sane, calculating killer who escapes from a mental hospital and taunts Boxer with the legal concept of double jeopardy.
the way Lindsey treats Joe I'm beginning to hate her and I definitely think she doesn't deserve this guy.
In this sixth installment of the Women's Murder Club series, Lindsay is faced with bringing three different perpetrators to justice in unrelated cases.
The first is killing tenants (and their dogs) in his apartment building when they make too much noise.
I can't provide any further details without spoiling the suspense for those who haven't read the book yet.In addition, Claire has a surprise announcement and Lindsay breaks up with Joe, her longtime FBI beau.
Patterson is almost incapable of producing an uninteresting read (I say "almost", because there was one where he allowed his co-author a little too much license).
Loved this book, and love the series!
Anytime I get in a reading funk, I know I can pick up a Patterson book and quickly become immersed in the story.
It took me a while to warm up to the main characters in the Women's Murder Club series, but I can tell you that I have finally become invested in their lives and individual stories.
This particular book did a good job dividing its time among the four women.
There were two mysteries as part of the main plot; one the killer was revealed immediately, the other one not until the end.
I liked these books before. I am getting back into the series. Lindsay Boxer works for the San Fransisco police department and she is now a Sargeant. With her friends Yuki and Claire, they solve crimes. They call themselves the Women's Murder Club. The newest case is a shooting on the Del Norte ferry. The convicted is Fred Brinkley. He shot six people because the voices in his head told him so. Will pleading insanity be in his favor? One of the people shot was Claire and her son, Willie.
There’s the ferry shooting by a so-called legally insane man and his consequent trial; there’s the kidnapping of a five-year old little girl, and then someone seem to be murdering neighbors in Cindy’s new building.
I still enjoy these books because they are such easy and fast-paced reads, but I have to admit sometimes I doubt the detectives abilities to solve a case.
Maybe I read too many other good detective books, but I feel that Boxer and her colleagues don’t think outside the box enough – they really are clueless sometimes.
The 6th Target by James Patterson and Maxine Paetro is the 6th book in the Women's Murder Club Mystery series. Medical examiner Claire is shot at a ferry dock shooting, there are unexplained deaths at reporter Cindy's apartment and a young girl is abducted. Fast paced with plenty of action and adventures. Lindsey is demoted on her request and her love life is on and off. I love the friendships and support that the Women's Murder Club provides. An exciting book that keeps you reading to the end and makes you want more.
A madman loose on a ferry, with a gun, kills 4 people and injures one of the ladies of the Women's Murder Club.
Yuki Castellano, our newest member of the club and brilliant lawyer, has decided to switch sides for a while.
Though she is second chair to the ADA prosecuting this case, he has a heart attack and Yuki has no choice but to take the podium and continue on.
Another madman is on the loose.
These women can not catch a break.
Lindsay (Boxer) is still dating Joe, but has decided to call it quits.
I am biased. I love the women's murder club book: and characters that belong to it. But, to me, this book was well below the standard of the others I have read. I stopped one third of the way through.
This book was just so so for me. It had me asking myself if I really wanted to spend anymore of my reading time with these ladies. Then I got to the ending and the answer was "hell yes!" See you soon book 7!
First of all I have to admit that I honestly only read this book because I didn't prepare for my library's renovation and I didn't have anything around that was new.
The entire time I was reading this book, I felt like I was waiting for it to end.
Now I just wish I had re-read one of the books I own.
The plot sounded like something that I would like but when reading the book I felt that there were too many plot lines.
While some authors can write with several story lines and keep the book clear, this wasn't the case.
Another good book in this series. I love Patterson's mysteries so much.
This was an interesting read.
I really love Lindsay Boxer.
She has become one of my favourite heroines.
In this book, a member of the Women’s Murder Club, Claire was injured in a ferry shooting.
We see the reactions of the other ladies as they try to give their member some love and support.
I thought this book had the best storyline so far.
There was crime, mystery and some badass moments.
The ending was really great.
I want to read book 7 now, and I can’t wait to see what the series has in store for me.
Overall, a great read.
This one was good but I found parts to be confusing, with 3 different cases going on at the same time it seemed to jump around more than the previous ones in this series. It was still great. I don't know what Lindsay is thinking not telling Joe yes. shes nuts! I feel like this book should've been one case more detailed instead of 3 cases with less detail.
Στο 6ο βιβλίο της Γυναικείας Λέσχης Φόνων οι παράλληλες υποθέσεις προς εξιχνίαση είναι: 1) ο ψυχοπαθής Άλφρεντ Μπρίνκλι ανοίγει πυρ σε ένα κατάμεστο τουριστικό φέρι που έκανε βόλτες στον κόλπο του Σαν Φρανσίσκο (ανάμεσα στα θύματα είναι και η ιατροδικαστής Κλερ Γουόσμπερν, μέλος της Λέσχης), 2) ένας άνθρωπος που προσπαθεί να τελειώσει μια μελέτη που γράφει αλλά οι θόρυβοι της πολυκατοικίας δεν τον αφήνουν σε ησυχία και του σπάνε τα νεύρα, επομένως παίρνει την κατάσταση στα χέρια του, 3) μια σειρά από παιδιά και νταντάδες απάγονται, οι νταντάδες βρίσκονται δολοφονημένες, τα παιδιά όμως έχουν εξαφανιστεί, χωρίς καμία ειδοποίηση για λύτρα.
I have read from the very beginning up to mid-book of the twelfth novel in the series.
Each book in the series is a different roller coaster ride, different crime scenes, different evidence, different tragedies, different love stories, different obstacles, yet the same anxiety and anticipation.
I am positive that once you start reading, you will not want to put the book down.
Those who love thrillers will fall in love with this series and book, along with Patterson's style of writing.
However, I do not want to give spoilers so get yourself a copy and start reading!
I made it to Chapter 17, and I am sorely disappointed.
Incredibly, there are poignant moments where there's absolutely no feeling inserted, just the author's assumption that if these people died then the character must be feeling something that the reader will understand (page 40) (this was particularly odd to me as a reader as the story is told from a woman's point of view, even if she is tough as nails).
I don't actually expect a lot in a book I'm reading for pleasure (as long as I'm not yanked out of the story I will happily follow where it leads), but this was horrid.What did I like about this book?
This is a series of Patterson and Paetro that I thoroughly enjoy.
I like the character development and partnerships and how well they work together.
My compliments on this series.
While we are engrossed in this mystery we get to know a little more about the members of this unusual Club and find ourselves immersed into their different life choices.This one begins on a ferry boat, when six shots are fired killing four passengers and injuring one of the Club's members.
Claire Washburn is now struggling for her life while the others fight to keep a madman behind bars before anyone else is hurt.
Book 6 in the series "A Women's Murder Club"I am totally addicted to this series, all the books are simply fun and entertaining and this one is no exception.
While we are engrossed in this mystery we get to know a little more about the members of this unusual Club and find ourselves immersed into their different life choices.This one begins on a ferry boat, when six shots are fired killing four passengers and injuring one of the Club's members.
Claire Washburn is now struggling for her life while the others fight to keep a madman behind bars before anyone else is hurt.
