https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/157927.Gorilla_My_Love
I don’t know how it is across the Atlantic but my guess is that when this book first appeared in the year of my birth 1984, Usian women who were black & poor found fewer books in which to find themselves reflected than those who were white & well off, and this incandescent text was an exception.If seems to me that this is a book that successfully ignores the white gaze entirely (note to self: Read Playing in the Dark: Whiteness and the Literary Imagination soon).
That is correct: predominantly white rural Virginians ain't really feeling this badass author "strongly informed by radical politics, feminism, and African American culture." Boggles thee mind.
I've only read the first story, about a middle-aged woman who sees no reason not to show some cleavage, booze it up, and dance all sensual (no room left for the Holy Ghost!) with a flirty elderly blind man at a big community event, to the chagrin of her politically-minded, more serious kiddos.
It's the sort of America we mean to have, but rarely seem to.
I mean it is really quite dark.
A number of 5 star short stories in this collection, some of the best I've ever read.
Even if you're not a short story fan, you might like this.
Interesting characters, thought-provoking twists, and overall good storytelling.
I particularly love the feisty little girls that show up.
She recognized the role of laughter in struggles for decolonization.
To her, laughter was a way to dissent.
The oppositional perspectives black people used to resist dehumanization were consistently evoked in her stories."
I thought that the short stories in this collection were funny and real and applicable to the time they were written in but also 2016. That said, there were some stories in the collection that I feel I just couldn't wrap my head. The first few stories in the book I found to be the funniest, but I could see that there were recurring themes/events that gave the book a feel of connectedness, whether it was the card/coffee reading magic to the kissing of toads and getting warts.
Wonderful short stories with very vivid character descriptions. Although the stories were short they were power packed and reflective on life issues as seen from a child's view.
This collection is a toss up...the first few stories are great; easy, colorful language, and vividly drawn, feisty characters. There are also recurring characters from story to story, which sort of ties a few of them together. Overall, this collection felt very one-note. Some stories also felt too overworked and forced. If I'm reading a string of (mostly) first-person POV vignettes, there has to be a coherent narrative thread that moves the story along; it wasn't quite there, and three or four of these stories were literally impossible to understand (yikes!)
I found I enjoyed the stories, when I took my time to read them and understand the tone and the message beautifully contained within Bambara’s colorful prose.
Some of my favorites were the title story, Gorilla, My Love, Hammerman, and Basement.In Gorilla, My Love, the story is told from the point of view of the main character, Hazel, a sassy, tough, young kid, who holds people accountable for what they say.
This was a great read and I connected with Hazel at the end of the story.In Hammerman, issues such as mental illness and race are covered.
Gorilla, My Love is the first book of short stories I've read from Feminista's Top 100 Works by Women Authors.
Each narrator and dialect required the work of going into a world where I didn't know the lingo and hadn't ever visited personally so I had to gather a lot from context and I felt like I was missing more of it than I was getting.
That being said, the strongest stories from Gorilla, My Love are some of the best I've ever read.
I didn't have time to read these stories as carefully as I would have liked (had to get the book back to the library) and hope to pick the book up again at some point.The first story "My Man Bovanne" is exquisite.
I love the pathos and humor, the dynamics between a mother, Miss Hazel, and her children, and her frustration with a kind of self-righteousness that makes her kids feel they have the right to control her way of moving in the world.
I also liked the much-anthologized title story.
It has a classic feel to it and has Bambara's bitter-sweet humor.
Sinossi: “Durante una festa elettorale per il Potere Nero, una donna di mezza età viene redarguita dai figli per aver ballato in modo troppo sensuale con un vecchio cieco. Un’assistente sociale cerca di insegnare ai bambini del quartiere il valore dei soldi portandoli in gita in un lussuoso negozio di giocattoli. Una ragazza riflette sulla figura della bisnonna, una fattucchiera in odore di pazzia che voleva dare l’assalto al mondo. Cinque amiche si riuniscono in camera da letto per discutere le
Sinossi: “Durante una festa elettorale per il Potere Nero, una donna di mezza età viene redarguita dai figli per aver ballato in modo troppo sensuale con un vecchio cieco.
Cinque amiche si riuniscono in camera da letto per discutere le strategie sentimentali da seguire con gli uomini.Che racconti situazioni familiari oppure sociali, conflitti generazionali oppure razziali, contesti rurali oppure urbani, nelle sue storie Toni Cade Bambara affronta la realtà dei neri americani con grazia e umorismo: facendo parlare i suoi personaggi – spesso donne, spesso bambini – con la loro viva voce, mostrandoceli nella loro ordinaria litigiosità, ma anche nei momenti di crisi e nei non rari gesti di compassione e solidarietà.”Specchio di varia umanità nera tra cui brillano, per freschezza e inventiva linguistica, le storie narrate dai bambini/bambine.
Title of this book could also be "How To Be a Complete and Total Badass". There is tons of spirit and style, many of the stories read well. Underneath the breezy delivery are serious topics of race, class and gender. A couple of the later stories have a different style which is less coherent and approachable. I didn't enjoy those as much as the more direct ones. Overall pretty good.
But the way she unravels them, starting in media res (often within a tangent that you only later realize how it links up to the main point of the story), withholding information to just the right time, creating spaces where you the reader have to follow along the thought-lines of the narrator's voice which means you have to follow her into memories, flashbacks, hopes, dreams and imaginations, and so most of the story does not happen in the "real life" of the story.
This story is so creatively told, so narratively unconventional that it's confusing on first read, but rewards upon subsequent reads.
This is a part of my 2010 Summer Short Story Collection Challenge: The fifteen taut stories are fascinating glimpses into the lives of Black women and girls, some in the streets in New York, some in the Southern small town.
Bambara is a master of first person point of view and dialect--and her experiments using Black English feel effortless.
"Basement," "The Hammer Man," "Street Town," "Raymond's Run" and "Maggie of the Green Bottles" were some of the most memorable.Overall, Gorilla, My Love celebrates growing up and women's experience and finding one's voice.
Not all of the stories here are like that--some drop the first person and try to be experimental and self-consciously artsy (as I see it, like the longest here, "The Survivor," while others deal with adult narrators, such as "My Man Bovanne." But all of the ones that go with girl narrators, growing up--the lonesome "Happy Birthday," the disturbing "The Basement," and most of all the concluding "The Johnson Girls," in which the narrator is welcomed into not just the hard realities of adult relationships but also to the nurturing power of grown-ass sisterhood--are nearly as good as the stories I already loved.
Slice-of-life short stories about Black communities, usually in cities in the North, between 1940 and 1960.
The stories are very well-written and are a joy to read.
And the stand-out stories (My Man Bovanne, The Lesson, Happy Birthday, The Survivor, Blues Ain't No Mockin Bird, The Johnson Girls) are just perfect.
Bambara is a master of the short story form.
Every one of these stories seems perfectly crafted.
However, as a collection, the stories felt disconnected.
It reads more like an anthology of unrelated or loosely related stories, which is what it is.
This collection of stories are evocative of the world of the mid-twentieth century, which is when they were written, and, therefore, somewhat innocent, but also sometimes sassy.
Most are written in the first person with authentic voices, especially those of the adolescent girls growing up and trying to make sense in their world.
Beautifully written, and sometimes in dialect, with vivid descriptions, apt wisdom (" .
In addition to that story, I especially liked Mississippi Ham Rider,  The Lesson, The Johnson Girls, and, of course, Gorilla, My Love.
Major Field Prep: 69/133This collection of short stories primarily focuses on young female narrative voice and questions of adolescence, womanhood, interpersonal relationships, and all-black communities. The stories interrogate both black femininity and black masculinity. How does this relate to and build upon TCB's anthology The Black Woman? The masculinization of the BAM and the Civil Rights Movement, the reaction of black women writers and the rise of black feminism? Use of phonetic representation of speech and interest in both the urban and rural experiences of black people.
Excellent voice-driven stories about black life in NYC and the south during the Civil Rights era. A young girl ponders a slow summer, an older women's politicized children browbeat her for flirting at a neighborhood party, a black record label employee takes her white boyfriend to the deep south to try and record wary blues musicians. The themes of social justice never feel heavy-handed, and the variety of perspectives all ring true, but are not limited to their settings.
My friend who recommended this collection of short stories to me described it as "unapologetic." I can't think of a more fitting word. Some of the stories were difficult to follow perhaps because I am unaccustomed with the language style, however overall I found the unapologetic tone incredibly inspiring. "Raymond's Run" was my favorite and one of the best things I have read in a while. I recommend this book.
This is a badass collection of short stories, focused on the lives of black women in America. It is unapologetic, heartbreaking, hilarious, and real. It is full of poignant social commentary, and wonderfully-written. I cannot recommend it enough.
Entire books' worth of gender/class/race politics crammed into short conversations between family members or exchanges between kids and their teacher in a way that necessitates we reexamine more of the minutiae within our own lives.
Gorilla, My Love does many things well, but something it achieves that few other books attempt at all is to give a voice to Black children, specifically Black girls.
Above all, perhaps what's most impressive about Bambara's short story collection is how immediately relevant it is, nearly sixty years after its original publication.
The first story, “My Man Bovanne” is about a middle-aged woman who’s at an event at a community center.
Or maybe the man was the flirtatious one, hmm.
I like the stories with the children or little girls the most, they’re sassy.
Like in one story an educated black woman takes a group of poor black children to an upscale toy store.
You get conflicting point-of-view as one friend feels the injustice of the situation and the narrator responds by lashing out at the educated woman who brought them there.
Not all the stories are easy reading, like I said some are dark but overall a pretty good collection of short stories.
I read this at the same time as Danille Evans' Before You Suffocate Your Own Fool Self and they are both full of stories about the Black experience in America, some told in kind of a stream of consciousness style (more so in this collection) and they are both very very good.
It was not a great airplane book - the long paragraphs of first person voice lulled me to sleep, not because they were boring but because they had a certain rhythm to them.
Toni Cade Bambara has long and short short stories in a variety of voices.

(FROM JACKET)In these fifteen superb stories, written in a style at once ineffable and immediately recognizable, Toni Cade Bambara gives us compelling portraits of a wide range of unforgettable characters, from sassy children to cunning old men, in scenes shifting between uptown New York and rural North Carolina. A young girl suffers her first betrayal. A widow flirts with an elderly blind man against the wishes of her grown-up children. A neighborhood loan shark teaches a white social worker a lesson in responsibility. And there is more. Sharing the world of Toni Cade Bambara's "straight-up fiction" is a stunning experience.
Bambara's stories are a pleasure to read.
Her characters are so distinctive that they really seem to come to life.
You have to love the little girl in the title story, if perhaps you might not want to have to be an adult dealing with her.
The language really stays true to the voice of the character speaking.
Foremost, though, I adore the description.
Bambara often has characters trying to describe something by comparing to something else they know.
It is wonderfully specific and concrete and demonstrates so much about the character, both about their world and their perception about the reader's familiarity with that something else.
These stories are not to be missed.
Short stories first published anywhere from 1959 to 1971 and collected here in 1972. One or two are hard for me, but the rest are just wonderful. She gets you so clearly into the situation and the persons she is describing. It all just comes to life.Not only is she a good storyteller, she also found a really good way to represent a "black dialect" of English. Much much better than any previous attempt I have seen. She uses very little spelling changes, mostly just words.[What grade you in now, Raymond?]
Superbly written. Each story appeals to raw human emotion and gives the reader just enough time to get to know the characters in each short story before moving on to the next one. This thus allows the reader to see pieces of himself in each of the protagonists. Written in the vernacular, her use of language adds life to her story but also makes it more taxing to read. Its a book that should not be rushed, or the reader may become agitated by the effort it requires to read her unique style of writing.
i practically specialize reading about sassy girls. this collection has some of the most bad-ass girls i've had the pleasure to read. each of the stories is a quick glimpse of a day or two into the lives of some amazing characters. whenever a girlchild is the narrator, the voice is strong, strong. it's really a pleasure to read Toni Cade Bambara. i'm generally not a short story reader, so this collection is definitely something special. can't wait to read more.
I especially liked the stories told through the eyes of children. It's an interesting choice of narrator: while the children do not fully comprehend or often misinterpret what's going on around them, we as readers can see the bigger picture. The stories at a glance appear to be about one thing, but they reveal so much more about the lives and expriences of black people in America. My favorite stories were Happy Birthday, The Lesson, and Blues Ain't No Mockin Bird.
