https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/672235.The_Amazing_Spider_Man
Definitely one of the strongest stories involving Spider-Man This edition collects the storyline formally known as “Fearful Symmetry: Kraven’s Last Hunt”, originally published in “Web of Spider-Man #31 & 32, Amazing Spider-Man #293 & 294 and Peter Parker, The Spectacular Spider-Man #131 & 132.Writer: J.M. DeMatteisIllustrator: Mike ZeckLetterer: Rick Parker (I wanted to highlight him too, since his work in lettering on this particular storyline was superb.) READER-SENSE TINGLING! I
I do it and not always they are something any of value, but if you ever decide to read this story and you get this same edition, please, read the introduction.You will realize that it’s worthy of your time.Besides informing the many times that DeMatteis tried that editors (from Marvel and even DC) would pick the premise of his story to be used on several characters like Wonder Man and Batman, finally to land with your friendly neighborhood web-crawler, also the introduction is a beautiful tribute to the life that any good story has, a life so vivid that in many times the writers hardly have any control over them but only barely able to put them in paper just like they wanted to exist.
He drugs Spider-Man, beats the shit out of him, and buries him alive.
Kraven, dressed as Spidey, goes on a rampage to prove he's better than Spider-Man, until Spider-Man digs his way out of the grave...The great thing about Marvel Unlimited is that you can finally catch up on some of the epic stories you missed when you were a kid.
Also, there's Peter dealing with exhaustion and claustrophobia for being buried alive for two weeks...Kraven's Last Hunt actually holds up fairly well.
I read this series WAY back when it came out and LOVED it!! Highly recommended for any Spiderman and Kraven the Hunter fans!!

Esta review puede contener spoilersHistoria atípica donde se aplica la regla inversa, el villano gana.Kraven el cazador parece estar atravesando sus últimos días y ejecuta su máxima aspiración, una demostración personal de lo que resultó imposible para él y todos. Vencer al enemigo.El estilo del cómic casi sin diálogos, narrado en gran parte en voz en off hace que el lector sienta a través de los pensamientos de los personajes. Gran historia.
Except Kraven's a loony who eats spiders "to gain their strength!", is obsessed with "honour" for his family and sees him accomplishing this honour by killing a guy who dresses in a black Spider-man outfit (in this book Spidey's outfit is trés emo-black!).
But really Kraven defeats both characters far too easily to convincingly claim that he’s a “better” anything, it’s just plotted in this contrived fashion to give the character some validation before getting rid of him.Spider-man's barely in this book so be prepared for a lot of boring Kraven and Vermin stuff before getting to Spidey's appearances.
I only inked and embellished this book over pencil art by Mike Zeck, but it's one of my best jobs, and the story is very good as well.
This is a story were one of Spider-man villains drugs him, buries him alive for two weeks and then takes it upon himself to dress up as Spider-man and fight crime while he is high as a kite.
Instead of killing Spider-man, which he reveals later in the story he could have easily done, he drugs him to the point of unconsciousness and buries him alive.
Whilst Spider-man is in the ground, Kraven then decides to take a lot of drugs himself, dress up as Spider-man and go out into the streets of New York and beat up thugs.
3.0 stars. One of the best Spider-man story arcs of all time. Kraven the Hunter is portrayed very well as a gifted, talented individual whose personal demons and psychological problems have led him to focus on Spidey as the cause of everything that has gone wrong in his life. A very good story-line and one I remember liking very much. Recommended!!!
Myślę, że to bardzo charakterystyczne, że moją ulubioną opowieścią o Spider-Manie jest ta napisana z punktu widzenia kogoś zupełnie innego, do tego jeszcze jego przeciwnika.
Cały tom to tak naprawdę zagłębienie się w psychikę Kravena Łowcy, gdzie poznajemy jego historię, kompleksy, neurozy.
Do tego tom poszerza znacząco mitologię Spider-Mana i robi to nawet lepiej niż "Powrót do domu", gdzie wyłuszcza się całą teorię Spider-Mana jako totemu.
Ale "Powrót do domu" opowiada o tym, jak działa totemiczna siła, podczas gdy "Ostatnie łowy Kravena" pokazują jak ona działa i na tym polega siła tego tomu.
Great Spider-Man story.
A dark Spider-Man story.
Spider-Man gets defeated and tormented by Kraven the Hunter.
He also sets Vermin loose on the world.This all is part of Kraven's plan to die happily after defeating and replacing Spider-Man, becoming his superior in everything.I liked the art, it made me bump the Secret Wars omnibi to the top of my omnibus wishlist, because of Mike Zeck being the artist on Kraven's Last Hunt as well as on the first Secret Wars story.
It's a powerful image.If you're a Spider-Man fan and haven't read this one yet.
It's considered one of the greatest Spider-Man stories ever written.And with good reason.
His naïve optimism and freewheeling attitude appealed to me before real life had a chance to stuff it's bitter little realities down my throat.
I will always have a soft spot for him, but I typically don't read much Amazing these days.
Bought it at a discount because I had never read the story and many have recommended it.
Somber and dark, it's unique in the Spider-Man stories I've read.
Gave a little more depth to a Kraven.
This story added some much needed depth to him as a villain.
Probably worth a read if your a Spidey fan.
In this final Kraven story, DeMatteis reveals him to be a tortured soul battling his own personal demons, which he projected onto his hapless foe: our friendly neighborhood Spider-Man. In the end, Kraven wins the battle he was truly fighting and finds a measure of personal peace and redemption (in one of the most grisly and shocking scenes ever to appear in a mainstream, family-friendly comic book).
As I expect them to churn out ever more Spider-Man movies, I sincerely hope that they use this graphic novel as a basis for one.
Why is Kraven so tortured by the spider figure? Everything in here revolves around that, but it is never explained, and how does he come in terms with it? and why did he wear the Spiderman suit? This is usually listed as one of spider-mans best stories, and it has a couple of interesting things, but in the end it seems to be a lot about nothing. The small flashbacks make this story interesting, and in general it has a fast pace, but there are many gaps in the whole thing. I had seen Kraven in on
This is usually listed as one of spider-man´s best stories, and it has a couple of interesting things, but in the end it seems to be a lot about nothing.
Another thing I found interesting is that the whole story is told though the reflections of Kraven, Vermin, Spider-man and Mary Jane.
The thoughts that MJ has when Peter goes missing show a lot of frustration I really liked that.
I still belive that Spider-man is a GREAT character, but I want to find the stories where it shows.
If you like Marvel in general, you owe it to yourself to check out "Kraven's Last Hunt." Without giving anything away that isn't told in the blurb on the Amazon page, Kraven the Hunter kills Spider-Man, buries him, and takes the mantle of being Spider-Man up for himself.
In fact, while that is the inciting event, the story itself feels as if it has little to do with it, taking that plot (which, I imagine, Superior Spider-Man--a run I have not read hitherto, but have heard great things about--owes its basic idea to, if nothing else) and weaving a spectacular and psychological tale of self-hatred, love, and overcoming that which is feared.
26th book read in 2016.Number 14 out of 519 on my all time book list.Review Pending:
Jungle Jitters with Spida Mayn So this is probably one of the most well known and beloved Spider-Man stories of all time. In fact, one of the most well known and beloved Marvel stories of all time. And I can see why. I knew the big thing that happens in this book a long time ago, so it was all just a matter of seeing what came after. And I gotta say. This book did impress me. Not just because it is a great tale of revenge, but because it is an unconventional character study that spans a very da
(Damn that sounds messed up)Kraven, Spider-Man, and Vermin are as J.M. DeMatteis are the perfect trifecta that make the story work and makes it what it is.
Brilliant.) I won't spoil anything but Kraven while not one of my favourite villains is definitely the most interesting in the way he looks at the fight with himself, reality, and Spider-Man. It really does go a lot deeper than that guys.
Like Spider-Man. Kraven seeks out to be Peter Parker's superior in every way.
I wish there was more fever dreams from Peter, or Kraven besting the role of Spider-Man, or more of Mary Jane and her struggles.
Even despite the Wikipedia article documenting that this story was in DeMatteis' head long before Dark Knight and Watchmen, it's hard not to see the parallels - parallel light and dark inner monologues are the obvious stylistic choice that seems to have emerged spontaneously across creators in this era (or maybe JMD did crib that layout from his heir).
The inner monologue for either Spidey or Kraven is nuts in a kinda forced way, and when both of them suffer from it, it takes the form of affectation - or at least, forced experiment on the writer's part.
La última gran victoria de un kraven amargado y enloquecido, un enfrentamiento a tres bandas entre el propio Kraven, spiderman y alimaña del que nadie saldrá ganando en realidad. Un clásico.
Como de la nada me entró el gusto por leer algún cómic y elegí este por que me lo recomendaron y es una historia que no engloba muchos tomos. Lo que más me gustó fue el narrador ya que constantemente nos inunda en un ambiente en donde Peter Parker y su antagosnista, Kraven, se cuestionan sobre la finalidad de sus actos lo que llevará a ambos a un límite entre lo correcto y el deber.Bonito cómic, sobretodo un dibujo muy clásico. Recomendable.
Esta historia de Spiderman la leí por primera vez en 1988 serializada en seis números de Marvel Superhéroes de Forum.
La impresión que me produjo fue tan grande que esos seis números han ido sobreviviendo a diferentes expurgos de mi biblioteca como una de los mejores historias de Spiderman.Releída 30 años después, pues muy bien pero no hay para tanto.
La sensación final es que algunas oscuridades de los 80-90 han envejecido mal, que Spiderman sea el protagonista de esta historia puede ser un fatal error de casting y que si Josep Pla decía que cualquier hombre de más de 40 años que leyera novelas era un puro cretino, ni te cuento qué pensaría de esto.
In terms of Marvel's best writers of the '80s, I feel like DeMatteis often gets overlooked.
DeMatteis had been a reliably excellent writer for years, doing brilliant runs on books like Captain America, Defenders, Dr. Strange and more.
A six-part story that ran in Spider-Man's three main books (Amazing, Spectacular, Web of).
This is heralded as one of the greatest comic stories of all time, and for good reason.
It's dark, creepy and moody.This is up there with Frank Miller's Daredevil work as a masterpiece in superhero comic storytelling.
Brilliant, incredible work.
I'm definitely getting my money's worth out of Marvel Unlimited.I remember seeing these comics on the shelf when they first came out (1987), but didn't have the means or the patience to pick up every issue of the crossover event, apparently.
I do have one or two of them, I believe.This is another kind of weird, dark story like Fight Night.
It must have been a thing in the mid to late 80s after The Dark Knight Returns came out for there to be more "serious" comics like this.
I did not enjoy the colors in the Unlimited app.

So this book features Kraven, he's done it all, seen it all, all his life dreams fulfilled except for one thing, Spider-man...
So Kraven decides that the only way to beat spider-man is to become Spider-man, that's all I'll say for lack of spoilers.
The Artwork was so good, there were panels so well down that you didn't need dialogue to explain what's happening or what transformation a character is going through!
The Story is very good even though it lacks dialogue its storytelling is just so perfectly executed; the story is very dark and gritty though, not the usual happy fun-time spider-man!
This story is dark, but so good in the way it's drawn and written.
It's only a six issue miniseries but this is the defeat of spidey, kraven finally winning and what he does with the mantle of the spider and taking down Vermin for later plans against spiderman.
The story portrays that Kraven is crazy.
He eats spiders, and drinks many poisons and spices to gain strength to take on spiderman !
In a way, spiderman is attacked mentally in this story after the result of, we'll, I won't spoil but just look at the front cover and guess how that happens !!Anyway, great story!
I've had this among my graphic novel collections for a while now but for some reason hadn't gotten around to reading it until very recently. It's considered a classic arc among Spider-Man stories, but Kraven never really interested me as a villain. Here DeMatteis burrows into Kraven's psychological make-up to reveal a twisted / tormented soul on the edge of true madness. I was less caught up with the Vermin aspect of the story. But it was overall pretty good.
very good comic book i like the story line of this better than some of the spider man movies.
on how he had to fight to bad guys and the same time doc otto and kraven.
and would also try to stop doc otto from building a nuclear fusion rector that would destroy new york city.
the art work had a lot of different shots it had a lot of over the shoulder and low shots looking up at spider man on a roof.
spider man gained alot of confidence threw out the comic because he knew what he was doing was right and he could help and save the world.
Pretty art. Dated color. Needs revising. Story bit of a let-down considering it's lofty rating in Spidey cannon.
Ehhhh I guess it's ok. I don't really like Kraven as a villain and Black suited Spider-Man should act in a demented manner. Here he's just some wimpy version of himself.
