https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/342062.Sixth_Column
It makes me sad to 2-star this Heinlein novel that was one of my very favorites when I was 13 or 14.
But it didn't hold up well at all on rereading.
First you have to handwave pervasive racial insults and insensitities (American is conquered by an improbable "Oriental" nation that's a mix of Japanese and Chinese), then you have to handwave the magical scientific discovery that does freaking everything: kills people by race, cures cancer, builds huge temples, transmutes other elements into gold...
And you also have to handwave the unlikelihood of a group of six intrepid Americans taking on the occupying forces with almost no trouble at all.My hands just got tired of all that waving.Full review to come at www.fantasyliterature.com.
Bird Brian's review of Prayers for the Assassin reminded me of this steaming pile of crap, which I read when I was about 12.
So the slitty-eyed yellow hordes have invaded the good ol' US and are crushing it under their bamboo heel.
even though they're up against four hundred million Japanese-Chinese-Vietnamese-whatever Untermenschen they triumph because, well, that's their racial destiny, isn't it?I may be misremembering some details.
Heinlein wrote it in 1940; I would love to know more about his political opinions at the time, and how he thought WW II was going to play out.
Having read it back in the 1970s and rereading it again now I wanted to be sure I'd pointed out some of the things readers from the 21st century should be aware of going in.You'll need to remember the time frame in which this book was written.
I hope this doesn't offend and you can enjoy the book, but I wanted to give the heads up.I read this back in the 70s and like most of Heinlein's work I enjoyed it.
It is at heart a fast moving story that keeps you interested throughout.Recommended but be aware it's very much from the era of the "Red menace" and also a time of wariness toward "Asian enemies".
This plan mostly works.Specific problems: * Frank Mitsui in the book is a man whose grandmother was "half-Chinese and half wahini," and his mother is "part Chinese but mostly Caucasian." Somehow he acquired the name Mitsui from this ancestry, and finds himself adrift in a country that reviles him, as do the invaders.
I don't want to reread to check it out.) speaking parts for women in this book.
Granted, in 1941 this must have seemed like an attractive message, but the book often focuses on the ways in which the "Asiatic" culture is deficient.
It would be easiest to review this like I have the stories I've been reading on Project Gutenberg - with a hefty dose of irreverence, and covering the sometimes astounding racism and sexism with as much humour as headshaking.
With Heinlein, you have to tackle head-on the issues with many of his books, and, if you're me, admit that you still really like reading them anyway.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
It is virtually impossible to find an intellectual that doesn't somewhere between apologize for America or just outright regard it as a villain -- inside or outside of the country.
The attitude increasingly permeates through the rest of our culture.It is often one of the underlying things in Heinlein's work that I enjoy that both his personal values and the time in which he wrote were violently opposed to this trend.
They are to prosecute the war independently in a last ditch effort.Our hero discovers that a breakthrough has been made, but coupled with a terrible accident.
No es el mejor Heinlein, pero se lee y muy bien, por ser hábil en mezclar géneros, conseguir una atmósfera y personajes realistas en plena época Catastrófica, con ésa esencia chulesca e irreverente de lo que sería el ambiente cargado post guerra en los Yankees (con su engreimiento testarudo a la par que sumamente farolero y obcecado por su egocentrismo marisabidillo..así es como lo pinta tal cual.
Rather than give up, the ad guy decides to use the time honored military tactic of making up a fake religion and using the newly invented "Ledbetter Effect*" to beat back the yellow menace once and for all.The book is just absurd wish fulfillment.
Utterly goofy and filled with racial pejoratives that might have been acceptable When this book was written, 1941, but is very jarring to read today.
Two stars including one just because I love Heinlein.*The Ledbetter Effect is the well known scientific effect of using radiation to do whatever the fuck you want.
And unfortunately, for a science fiction “war” novel, Heinlein creates scene after scene of “talking” or second-hand reporting instead of episodes of action.Yet, Sixth Column has its strengths, too.Despite the cartoon quality that ultimately ensues, there are a few scenes that create verisimilitude within the situation: the despair at the beginning of the novel, as well as the severe process for “drafting” military recruits.
Consequently, this appears to be another blemish to the conclusion Heinlein perhaps intended.If, then, the reader were to experience Heinlein’s first novel, Sixth Column, as a reflection in a mirror, s/he would see in that reflection the author’s second novel, Space Cadet, since it stands as a complete reversal to his first.
Campbell himself reportedly provided much of the concept.
I first read it when I was quite young and didn't recognize some of the flaws and weaknesses it contained, though I remember not liking it quite as well as his "juveniles" that I'd previously explored.
Like many young fans of the day, Heinlein was my unquestioned hero for years.
In historical context I think it's still an entertaining story (I wonder how I missed the fact the first time around that the name of the Great God Mota is atom spelled backwards?), but it's far from Heinlein's best.

I'm about a third of the way through this book and I just want to comment about the racism and bigotry presented so far.Yes, the characters are racist (both the Americans and Pan-Asians) but I think it is important to take this in context.
Indeed, there was one character, an anarchist hobo, who sees the Pan-Asians as just people, induced to hate, kill and conquer by their state just as the Americans were themselves induced by their state.
I suppose field theory was quite new when this book was written but still, Heinlein's grip of it seems to be quite weak.
It's a story (that means made up) and was written over 70 years ago - when we start telling writers what they can and can't write about we may as well give up reading.Like many older novels, Sixth Column is quite talky and ponderous, especially considering its rather exciting plotline.
To be fair, the style is fairly typical of the era in which it was written.Sixth Column starts out with a few scientists and others, less than 10 in total, in a citadel under a mountain.
Between them these few people can do anything!
And that's the crux of the problem.
This time I noticed how careful he was to make it clear that it was alien ideas his heroes were fighting against, not just alien people.
His portrayal of Frank Mitsui, who came from the same stock as the invaders, but was 100% American, was brief, but made the point.June 2014 yet another reading.
Why wasn't the old guy upset by the evil behaviour of the invaders?
The old guy didn't believe in authority, any authority, so the invaders were the same as the old government to him.
This was written by Heinlein, but the plot was a Campbell Jr. suggestion. This editor often did this with his 'stable' of authors. It seems odd that Heinlein would agree to participate in such a scheme, but this was early in his career and I suppose he took it as an useful exerciser - he was a self-taught author after all.Though a rather xenophobic story, it has some of RAH's flair and character but overall it is my least favourite of his works.
The book was not seen as an artistic success by Heinlein himself, though fairly well received by critics at the time of publication, both in 1941 and 1949.The story is one of those that deals with the defeat of the American government and her people by the Pan-Asians.
It has been suggested by some critics that Calhoun, the stiff and rather disliked scientist who eventually ends up insane, believing himself to be an incantation of the god Mota, is at least partly based on Campbell himself.Whilst Campbell’s version emphasised the race aspect, Heinlein’s tried to make it more scientific and using the so-called ‘soft sciences’ such as psychology and sociology to make the tale work.
It was essential to the basic mechanism of the plot that the enemy be a different race from Americans, but not at all comfortable to read in 2017.
This one had more interesting science fiction aspects than many of his other adult novels.
I really enjoyed the science fiction aspects, which he developed in a different direction and reused in "Number of the Beast".
It gets 3 stars because it held my interest but if it wasn't well written it would deserve only one star for the racist aspect of the story.
Only the 2nd Heinlein novel I've read.
This one was okay as a novel of ideas about war, race, religion and politics, but there are is a lot of clunky philosophy that falls flat.
They come up with a science fictiony gizmo they name the Ledbetter Effect, which is essentially as powerful as Green Lantern's power ring.
Green Lantern fans know that his power ring doesn't work on anything yellow.
Well here, the Ledbetter effect is designed to not work on anything white.
They use the Ledbetter Effect to form a religion, through which our heroes will initiate their followers to overthrow the evil Japanese/Chinese Empire that rules America.
The book gets a lot of grief for its racist elements.
Both the foreword and the afterword make good arguments that those elements do not reflect Heinlein's own beliefs.
(As if his later novels didn't already bear that out.) He did what he could to tone down the racist elements, but it is true that the story couldn't be changed too much without destroying the central plot point of the entire book.This book suffers from a heavy dose of pseudo science and a lack of well-developed female characters and secondary characters.
Those are all strengths that Heinlein developed later in his career.
I've always gotten a big kick out of this one.
It's also a lot of fun to read, not so juvenile as the juveniles and not so involving and continually name-dropping as Heinlein's great books.
And I take it like I take racism in other old books like Raymond Chandler and early Hardy Boys: I take note, and I leave it where it be!
Are we going to toss out The Big Sleep because Chandler was a racist old gay dude?
Dear old Heinlein.
He's like a father to me.
And I can't stand my own father's beliefs either!
An amazing reworking of a lesser plot by John Campbell, Jr., written on commission for $600 in 1941. And yet Heinlein forges an exciting story of 6 men who overthrow the vastly superior force of "PanAsians" using highly sophisticated science. Practically all the elements of Heinlein in his prime are here, so early in his career. And he manages to play down the racial aspects of Campbell's premise as much as possible. Definitely worth re-reading once you've read everything else by Heinlein.No, I don't believe in spoilers, and you will never see them here, except in the broadest of details.
Este es un buen libro que se basa en la esperanza para forjar el futuro de una nación.
Allí donde unos ven derrotismo, otros ven la oportunidad de alzarse con la victoria, no saben como, ni cuando, ni con quien, ni cuanto tiempo, pero están convencidos de esos y ese sentimientos les da la fuerza para luchar contra lo imposible.Un libro bastante ameno, que al principio no tienes ni idea de por donde va a tirar y como quieres solucionarlo o al menos hacerlo sobrevivir, pero una vez dentro de la historia, simpatizas con los rebeldes y sus ocurrencias.
En una lucha desigual entre lo conocido y lo místico que hace las delicias de este libro.
3.0 out of 5 - Early Robert Heinlein book: good, but not my favorite.When America falls as a result of a Pan-Asian invasion and America's defense forces have been reduced to six men (six against millions), how can the United States be saved?
With advertising, of course, and by the creation of a new religion and use of technology based on the mysterious and all powerful Ledbetter Effect.This novel, written in 1949, does have racist overtones (which probably reflects the attitude of the country just after World War II) along with the use of the Swiss Army knife of technology, the Ledbetter Effect.
I can't even rate this book, because it has been so long since I read it, that I don't really remember much of it.
After recognizing the cover recently courtesy of my Favorite Local Used Book Store, I was reminded I'd actually read it.
I read this for a term paper I wrote on Heinlein in high school.
I think what little memory I have of this book is probably for the best, given some of the details from other reviews that made me cringe.
What the heck, Heinlein?
I re-re-re-re-re-read Heinlein novels the way I re-re-re-re-re-revisit old friends.
This is one I've been reading since I was about 11.Heinlein walks a narrow tightrope here.
And he goes 'WAY out of his way to demonstrate that there's nothing wrong with Asians as a race.
But this whole book smells horribly like anti-Asian bias.That said, it is a fabulous story!
Incluindo pormenores muito interessantes sobre uma arma que explora supostos campos gravítico-magnético e gravítico-eléctrico que são descobertos por um punhado de cientistas, por analogia com o campo electromagnético e respectivas ondas que suportam as modernas tecnologias de informação e comunicação.
Aqui Heinlein explora de uma forma muito interessante a famosa afirmação de Arthur C.
Assim, Heinlein descreve-nos, de uma forma cínica e mordaz, uma nova religião que se baseia em tais "poderes sobrenaturais" para uma finalidade encapotada que é a de construir um exército de resistência que permita atacar o inimigo invasor.
Sixth Column was a book that I did not happen to run across all those years ago, so I picked it up recently, as it had been far too long since I'd read any Heinlein.
The marketing man, who's a major in the U.S. Army, is the closest thing to a well developed character in the book, but as a reader I never felt a connection to him, unlike Heinlein's other work.On the bright side, it's 248 pages, and it's Heinlein, so even with it's faults it was an easy read for me.
I've seen this book attacked as racist.
I probably should reread this--and it is a very slender book that could probably be read in one sitting, but for what it's worth, if it was racist, I was oblivious to it.
I'd note that one of the Americans--one of the good guys--is himself of Asian ancestry.
An odd choice, if Heinlein truly was a racist.
Campbell and Heinlein noted he "had to reslant it to remove racist aspects of the original story line." And one should remember, there's a difference between portraying racism--which is shown on both sides in this book, and being racist.
You can’t fault the guy for his ability to come up with some crazy ideas and to carry you through some of the most improbable, but fun, plot twists his as heroes dig themselves out of the hole that his opening scenario has dumped them in.What attracted me to this book was that the scenario described on the rear of the book seemed very little to do with the cover.
Heinlein takes us from surprise attack and occupation of the US by a pan Asian power to that cover and beyond via a couple of insane but fun plot twists.
