https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118414.My_Discovery_of_America
دوستانِ گرانقدر، در این کتاب <مایاکوفسکی> با نوعِ نگارشی هنرمندانه و البته شیرین و همراه با ته مایه ای از طنز، به شرح و توضیحِ سفرش به مکزیک و آمریکا پرداخته است و به نوعی سفرنامه ای به زبانِ ساده تهیه کرده است که هرچه را به چشم دیده در آن برایِ مخاطب بیان نموده است... از نوع رفتارِ مردمان تا شهرنشینی و خوراک های آنها و کار و شغل و همه و همه .. هرچه که لازم بوده از مکزیکوسیتی و نیویورک و شیکاگو، نوشته استبه انتخاب بخش هایی از این کتاب را در زیر برایِ شما بزرگواران مینویسم------------------
‎دوستانِ گرانقدر، در این کتاب <مایاکوفسکی> با نوعِ نگارشی هنرمندانه و البته شیرین و همراه با ته مایه ای از طنز، به شرح و توضیحِ سفرش به مکزیک و آمریکا پرداخته است و به نوعی سفرنامه ای به زبانِ ساده تهیه کرده است که هرچه را به چشم دیده در آن برایِ مخاطب بیان نموده است...
هرچه که لازم بوده از مکزیکوسیتی و نیویورک و شیکاگو، نوشته است‎به انتخاب بخش هایی از این کتاب را در زیر برایِ شما بزرگواران مینویسم-------------------------------------------------------------------‎شب هنگام در سراسرِ مکزیکوسیتی فشنگ به پرواز در می آید و صدایِ شلیک از همه جا به گوش میرسد..
به نظرم خاطرات مایاکوفسکی از سفرش به آمریکا، آن هم در دورانی که هنوز هیاهوی صنعت در همه جا به گوش می رسید - مثلا فوردیسم - و بسیاری از اتفاقات مدنی در آمریکا هنوز رخ نداده بود - مثلا نهضت های سیاهان و کمرنگ تر شدن نقش مذهب در ظواهر امور - ، جالب استظاهرا او در این سفر کلیت تکنولوژی آمریکایی را می پسندد - رویکرد فوتوریستی او محرک این پذیرش است - اما از طغیان آن علیه انسان - به طور خاص کارگران و زحمت کشان و محیط دلخوش نیست - البته گاهی خصوصا در مورد طبیعت چاره ی کار را در تکنولوژی های آینده می بیند و نه در انکار اصل آن.
او به سیاست های آمریکا در قبال آمریکای جنوبی - مکزیک به طور خاص - حمله می کند و دخالت های پول پرستانه ی آمریکاییان را به باد انتقاد می گیرد.
In Chicago he tours slaughterhouses amid “squealing, mooing and bleating” “the like of which will not be heard again until the end of the world, when people and livestock get squashed between merging rock faces.” Like Nabokov two decades later, he’s horrified by the gaudily hand painted neckties—“of a color like a cross between a canary, a fire and the Black Sea.” In Detroit he considers the absurdities of driving and parking; the inadequacy of newsreels to represent the Ford assembly line; the workers financing bourgeois amenities with credit; the provisional, “bivouac structure” of American architecture, in which each building “looks contrived, hastily converted from whatever it might have been, and due for demolition upon the rapid completion of its moment of indispensability.” On the voyage back, a group of footloose young Americans consumes the ship’s entire store of champagne.
El segundo, la complicada entrada a suelo “americano” , palabra decretada por Coolidge como de uso exclusivo para los estadounidenses como si el resto de América no existiera; en una visita a Nueva York, Chicago y Detroit.Entre La Habana y México, Maiakovski saca a relucir su poesía con bellas frases descriptivas pero sin perder de vista la división de clases a la hora de viajar y disfrutar del traje que ofrece el turismo.
We all know Mayakovsky was a genius. Even Lenin admitted Mayakovsky was a political genius (take or leave the art). Millions of critics, observers, visitors, and tourists have discovered less about America, than Mayakovsky did in 1925. Mayakovsky cuts to the heart of the biggest issues, and tickles the belly of the smallest details. Neil Cornwell's translation is good, and both the poems and prose read well. Colum McCann's foreword is a fair enough context, but handles Mayakovsky like any other Ginsberg or Kerouac.
Libro de viaje de maiakovski por Cuba, México, y Estados Unidos. La parte que más me gustó sin duda fue la de México, una maravilla ver México descrito en esa época, y que apareciera Diego Rivera. Eran más salvajes en esa época, pero tampoco me parece que haya cambiado tanto México. Por lo demás, la descripción de EEUU vista por alguien anti capitalismo, así que interesante, pero me faltaron seres humanos en sus crónicas, no solo trabajadores y teorías. Pero está entretenido igual.
Amerikkka sucks
"O objetivo de meus ensaios é fazer com que no pressentimento de uma luta remota se analisem os lados fracos e fortes da América" ~ Mal ele poderia esperar que sua escrita ainda disparasse questões atualíssimas a respeito dos povos que vivem sob as linhas opressivas e alinhavadoras de desejos em torno da manutenção da força cultural do business. A luta pela emancipação operária requer práticas sensíveis como a de Maiakovski.
Mayakovsky's writings about his three-month stay in Mexico/USA in 1925.
It is easy to utter any number of hackneyed phrases, completely unaccountable to anyone, about Americans - things like: the land of dollars, jackals of imperialism, and so on.But this would only be one frame in the enormous American film."anyway i remain vexed, inside and outside of this particular ISBN, by the idea of ranking books on a 1-5 scale.
but this is exactly 60% necessary, this book, although YMMV.
if you are bonkers for Mayakovsky or jazz age Soviet-American nexuses kick that up to 90%.
Vladimir Mayakovsky is one of my favorite poets and really turned me on to Futurist literature and art.
And while I think his poetry is just the cats meow, I found this piece to be about as awesome as it gets when it comes to Futurist literature.
His writing style, observations, and illustrations of interregnum America really shows Mayakovsky to be the best at what he does.While some may argue that this to be a throw-away job by Mayakovsky in need of a little skrill, but I call bullshit.
Even were that to be true, however, it still stands as his best work as far as long-form literature goes.
I liked this book, but I can't say I loved it. Maybe it was a bit oversold. Mayakovsky "kept it real" throughout, and gave candid descriptions of his boat trip over to Mexico, and his time in New York, Chicago and a little bit about Detroit. His descriptions of the US cities were brief, and at times I felt he overplayed the Greed-card. This book was also shorter than I expected (130 pages or so).Anyway, I wouldn't dissuade anyone from getting it, but it wasn't the read-of-the-century either.
It's entertaining, and it's interesting how many criticisms he makes are still frequently made. And sometimes seen as a new thing to criticize. Really, I mostly wish he had written more on Detroit beyond just his tour of the Ford plant. But I can't get everything, and it's fascinating to see a bit of Mayakovsky beyond the poetry.Is it absolute truth? No. Is it a reflection of Mayakovsky's ideology? Yes, and that's part of what makes it fascinating. But then, I'm quite fond of Mayakovsky.
Mayakovsky is clearly a better poet than author - My Discovery of America is not a particularly great read. Only if you enjoyed Mayakovsky would you enjoy this novel. Its most intriguing unique insight aside from it's empathy, is its understanding of the hypocrisy of the US from a Russian perspective.
To understand contemporary America you must neither live nor visit it, you must read the travel reports of a Soviet poet from 1925: undoubtedly the best tour guide ever written. Plot: Mayakovsky goes to America.
Es tan raro ver nuestro país a través de ojos desconocidos en tiempos pasados cuando, con viajero lejano del primer mundo al tercer mundo que era el país en ese entonces.
