https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125544.The_Scarecrow_Walks_at_Midnight
3.5 STARS!!This is one of the ones I didn't get to read as a kid. I loved the TV episode and this was pretty close to the story line on the show, which I appreciated. This had its creepy moments but I also listened to the audio book and the narrators voice was annoying as hell haha but I still enjoyed the book. Good old cheesy 90s horror! :)- Richard
#20 "It's a field of screams!"Jodie is visiting her grandparents at their farm this summer. It is a quaint little place and Jodie loves it there. but the corn isn't the only thing moving on this farm! The scarecrow's are really getting to her... literally!!!
This book was actually scary!Jodie and her brother Mark spend every summer on their grandparents' farm.
Stanley, the hired hand (who around here would be called one can short of a six-pack), has been avidly struggling through a superstition book and sees signs of good luck and bad luck everywhere.
(hide spoiler)] There's also mentioned (although not explored) the fact that Stanley has a son named Sticks and how difficult it can be to have a parent who is more like a child than you are.Although this book is good, and one of the more enjoyable Goosebumps, it doesn't escape from the regular Goosebumps stupidity.
This was the second book I read from the collection of Nightmares stories.
Although I read it some years I still remember this collection of youth horror books with great affection, I think that Hollywood had made a movie too!
It's a book I recommend to all young people who like scary stories, especially for those who want to start.Spanish version:Éste fue el segundo libro que leí de la colección de Pesadillas.
Aunque ya haga algunos años (cada vez más) que lo leí, aún sigo recordando esta historia con absoluta claridad.
Recuerdo esta colección de libros de terror juvenil con gran cariño.
I mostly gave this book such a high rating due to my own history with it.
Although anyone who knows me could tell you now that I am a HUGE horror fan, the scarier the better when I was younger I was...how to put this?
A wuss.
A major wuss.
So who knows what I was thinking when I decided to get this book out from the library.
I needed a quick break, something light between reading tariffs and operating manuals.
"The Scarecrow Walks at Midnight" filled that need.This is the second book from the Goosebumps series that I have read, And, it is the second one to impress me.
Both of the stories that I have read so far have been engaging and entertaining.
Both were the kind of horror stories that I would have eaten up as a kid.Not to disrespect the Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew that I grew up on, but I would have loved to have mixed in a little bit of Goosebumps horror for variety.4 STARS
Cost: Unknown Title:  The Scarecrow Walks at Midnight Series:  Goosebumps #20 Author:  RL Stine Overall Rating:  3 starsI know, you're all probably really bored seeing me reviewing Goosebumps books okay, but I own them and I need to finish them!Jodie loves going to her grandparent's farm every summer, but this year something seems off.
And rightfully so, heeding the creepy warning that "The Scarecrow walks at Midnight," Jodie can't help but feel she is being watched by not one scarecrow, but twelve.
And reading it now, that fact made me a bit sad because it's actually a really good Goosebumps book that I would've enjoyed a lot as a kid.
Αυτό το βιβλίο είναι όντως από τα πλέον τρομακτικά της σειράς. Ok... μπορεί αυτό να μην ισχύει για όλους, αλλά προσωπικά με άγγιξε στο επίπεδο που έπρεπε να το κάνει, κάτι στο οποίο ίσως να συμβάλει το γεγονός πως "παίζει" με κάποιους δικούς μου, καθαρά εσωτερικούς φόβους. Όπως και να 'χει, όμως, το αποτέλεσμα είναι αυτό που μετράει και για μένα, ήταν ιδιαίτερα πετυχημένο.
The book takes us to the villages and the Shires of Europe and the great climate there and all the tress and the farm/barn life cheered me up to read the book.
It would be great if we would have got to see some passages inside the book which can bring scarecrows and other things(as we see at the end) to life.
The book is full of scarecrows from the beginning to the end.
I especially like the arrival at the farm, the changed grandparents and the observation of the kids, the fishing scene, the "Scarecrow walks at Night "dialogue" , Stanley's and Sticks behaviour.
Great fun! A simple spooky story with a few twists and turns. just what you'd expect from goosebumps. This Halloween season I'm planning to revisit a few of these books as I haven't read any since I was a kid.
Stine isn't the best writer and I think it attributes to him having to dumb down descriptions, but I can easily see these scarecrows swaying in the wind and pulling themselves off of their stakes.Some people probably won't find this a great read in the Goosebumps series, but since I had a slight fear of the rural settings as a child I felt like if I had read this as a kid, I never would've wanted to visit my aunt again.
He doesn't mean harm, but he wants to be in control and be appreciated.Character Scale: 3.75I think the plot of how the scarecrows awoke was a little ridiculous, but only because Stine wrote it to seem ridiculous.
Okay I'm thoroughly freaked. That was actually a really good book. Stanley totally creeped me out. Scarecrows are scarey enough as it is, but this book takes that and makes it a whole lot worse. If you want a bit of a thrill then this book will give it to you.
"They won't obey me!" -- Reading that line gave me chills!When two children spend a summer vacation on their grandparent's farm where the corn is growing poorly, they never imagined having to figure out how to stop the coming onslaught of a dozen scarecrows with malevolent intent!Yes, Goosebumps is kid-friendly writing, but this short story was still a fun read since scarecrows ARE scary!Being from this series, it was apparent to me that the story's plot was definitely designed for the 10 and under audience, which should be clear for other adults as well...
Ahhh, the Goosebump days. I would borrow so many of these from the library they seriously considered extending my limit of books checked out at one time. R.L. Stine you were a reprieve from a harsh and dreary childhood in which my mind wandered far away from the troubles of the day. I stole books into my bed and read far into the night by the faintest of lights. I might have better eyesight were it not for you; however, I regret not one page or line.
Sooooooo why does Stanley get away with basically holding his employers hostage? They have never done anything to him and yet he makes them do his bidding and uses the scarecrows as leverage over them. I would have lit his ass on fire along with his little straw friends.
I think it is grate because R.L stine gets me scard with adventur and it is very clever so readers like reading his books.
Re-read this for the Teenage Scream podcast (lovingly dissecting the best and worst of 90s teen horror).https://soundcloud.com/teenagescream
Granted, that’s not the case with the protagonists here, Jodie and Mark - they’re not unhappy to be visiting their grandparents, though Jodie is allergic to almost everything, and is tasked with making sure her younger brother gets outside - but I’m sure there are other places they’d rather be.The basic premise for the book is this: the aforementioned main characters go to visit their parents at their farm, and find themselves stalked by scarecrows.
But unless their parents have been brutally honest with them, kids generally don’t know this, so it’s unnerving.
The best Goosebumps stories are made from what makes the best stories in general: emotional conflict between characters.
Not until the end do we see any external force deserving of the main character's reaction, but by then three-fourths of the book has been frittered.I've noticed this structure in a few other Stine books that miss the mark.
If a problem can be ignored by the main character, it cannot fuel the story.
You never know WHAT he's going to say!
Actually, I always know what Stanley's going to say, and it's going to be something either dumb, or creepy.
Stanley is Jodie's grandparent's farmhand, and this book was written in that quaint time not only before political correctness prevented us from calling him retarded, but they were just too polite to call him retarded.
What's Stanley operating on then?
I digress.As well as always knowing what Stanley is going to say, I ALWAYS know what Jodie is going to say.
It lacked a sincerely interesting or vaguely creepy story-line, and it's shock twist at the end?
Creo que Stine intentó hacer que la trama fuera interesante, y que quiso darle un aire misterioso, pero no lo logró.
No me gustó el hecho de que del libro tan mencionado (donde dice cómo darle y quitarle la vida a los espantapájaros) no se dijera qué es exactamente, o siquiera el nombre; una explicación que le diera sentido a todo hubiera sido de ayuda.
(view spoiler)[Después de todo lo que pasó dejan como si nada que Stanley siga leyendo el dichoso libro… Really nigga?
(hide spoiler)]A pesar de todo eso, sirvió para pasar el rato.
This book probably would have been a lot scarier 1~ if I were ten and 2~ if I were in the middle of a corn field.
As for number 1, its Goosebumps, so I knew what to expect as far as actual dear goes.
As for number 2, this would actually kind of scare me if I were standing next to a scarecrow at night.
Why were they so scared?
They're scarecrows.
Also, why did they let Stanley keep the book?
It's obvious that Stanley is slower than other people mentally, and maybe I'm being too sensitive, but this story just makes him look dumb.
It only needs enchanting words spoken aloud from a superstitious book to make them alive...Jodie and Mark spend their summer holiday on a farmland of their grandparents.
However, this summer everything seems different.
Stanley, a worker on the farmland, keeps telling them a joke about him making the scarecrows alive at midnight.
But it should be a joke, right?
Or a kind of terrible joke his son does to scare them the town folk, right?
Or else...Well, I guess if they could really make scarecrows alive like that, they would not have to bother puppeteering the scarecrows anymore.
A mí personalmente me ha gustado más éste que el primer libro de la colección.
Lo veo más real, más auténtico.
El transcurso de la historia es creíble, aunque no haga honor a esta colección de libros de terror; éste me parece que poco de ese género tiene.
Pero es entretenido, que es el propósito.
A decir verdad los espantapájaros nunca me han dado miedo, ni comprendo cómo pueden darle miedo a alguien; hay montones de cosas susceptibles de dar más miedo que un montón de paja encima de un palo de madera.
Scared me out of my mind to the extent that I threw it away from me and didn't dare to pick it up again until the next morning. Also has caused me to still freak out when the ivy scratches at my window. Creepy children's book causing life-long trauma? Mission accomplished...
This is a book about kids who moved to their parents farm and find a haunted scarecrow. This book was ok it was not one of my favorite goosebumps books but it is still entertaining and great for older elementary kids.
I've seen the show of this one so knew the story. Not as creepy and well-written as other Goosebumps but creepy enough. Especially reading about the kid dressing up as a scarecrow with all that straw rubbing against his skin. Major itch!
I remember really liking this one :p
A fun, quick read for a creepy story.
Αμερικανικη φαρμα,sweet corn,redneck χωρικοι και στοιχειωμενα σκιαχτρα.....καλο!!
