https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/921821.Miss_Shumway_Waves_a_Wand
Its so funny you will die laughing.for the first time hadley churned out this paranormal kind of novel.If you want to laugh to tears,please please read it....one of the best novel in the whole world.take my word...read it.
Hmmmm...not really the type of work one expects from Chase, but quite readable.
The humour is over the top, eg : "Don't bust your brassiere lady; remember your upbringing and try to behave like a lady..." Really!
The work would ordinarily be considered as fantasy, but is presented as fact "supernatural fact...facts"...
a big man turns into a sausage and is eaten by a dog that subsequently begins to talk, the canine having a sense of humour too!
"Look pop, I am flying!" The author clearly wrote this work tongue in cheek, and because of his reputation, the book was published?
fantastically dated. somewhat bizarre. all in all, a fast fun read.
One of the funniest books I have read. A JHC classic.
A Hard-Boiled Humorous Western with Supernatural Elements?This was a childish dud all the way through (despite a few laughs generated), suffused in gradeschool-level humour, and employing what should be forbidden literary devices to get out of plot difficulties.Whatever you do, do not read Miss Shumway Waves a Wand as your first James Hadley Chase book.
He wrote dozens of hard-boiled novels, but in this volume, Chase attempted to do something that he (mercifully), by all accounts, attempted in none of his earlier or later books: to cross the hard-boiled type of narration with comedy (well...
I picked this book up because of Rough Magic, the 90s film starring Bridget Fonda and Russell Crowe that was based on it.
She ends up pick-pocketing a couple of con men, who when they finally catch up to her, not only want their money back, but her assistance in acquiring a sure-fire snake bite cure from an Indian medicine man who is convinced he is about to die, but not before he is visited by the white goddess, for which Myra could be a very close approximation.All of these characters are dishonest (well, perhaps with the exception of the medicine man, but there's some question there as well) but lovable rogues.
This one from the maestro was right out of left field, especially when you are expecting his usual femme fatale involved in murder, mystery or espionage. Myra Shumway waves more than her wand, when it comes to black magic, talking dogs and floating bodies. It's not very often that we have a good laugh, however this one is really quite funny and very clever.
This was unlike any other Chase novel I've read. I expected a femme fatale involved in crime, but got the supernatural Myra Shumway. It's not quite satisfying read for Chase fans, but as I said earlier, it's quite different
Very interesting..looks more autobiographical..words like grubby for indian soldiers and showing them as cobblers and filthy not withstanding!!!Now an interesting twist of twins and myra's double play gets very interesting and hooking..rather spooky..not a good ending..like a bollywood film..
I liked the book, i read it long ago so i don't remember much of it, but i do remember liking it a lot! I think it should get a rating of at least 4. I liked the p.lot a.lot. :P
one of my best laugh out loud novels ever. a weird but truly rewarding book. i highly recommend it for fans of the supernatural book genre.
