https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22693240-taking-charge-of-your-fertility
However, I picked this hefty volume up once in B&N, and after leafing through several pages of complicated looking charts and completely gross close-up pictures of what-I-didn't-even-know, I nestled it back on the shelf and said to myself, "Well, I'll read that if I ever have any PROBLEMS with my junk 'down there.'" Fortunately, I happened upon it again in a Half-Price many months later, and the low price convinced me to finally give it a go.First of all, it is NOT as intimidating or scientifically dense as if appears at first flip through.
It's ridiculous that I didn't find out how my body works until now, but, better late than not at all!The book presents sympto-thermal charting in an understandable manner, but mainly focuses on trying to get pregnant rather than trying to avoid pregnancy.
The principles can be used the other way around, but this book isn't necessarily a guide for using FAM as birth control, and doesn't contain a lot of info regarding transitioning off of hormonal birth control.
Even if you're not trying to avoid pregnancy or get pregnant, if you are female or in a relationship with a female, this is as close as you get to an owners manual for a uterus.
By using the method, you can:Practise a completely natural and over 99% effective birth control method (actually, it CAN be higher than this- any failure is down to "user failure"- i.e. non-practise of the method)Help identify any fertility problems BEFORE running to the doctor and getting involved in invasive diagnostics testsKnow whether you ovulated in any given cycle-or notKnow the best days to get a smear test, and to check for breast lumpsKnow if you're period is going to be late, beforehand and without rushing out to get a pregnancy test in panicUnderstand all those signs throughout the month that most women are too afraid to ask other women aboutIdentify when you can get pregnant (and when to use protection!) and even help weigh the odds to male/female.
though she attempts to demonstrate objectivity, she definitely puts her pom-poms behind this method of birth control (which, i think she would like me to point out, is not the rhythm method!).this is an essential, comprehensive, and empowering guide for anyone who wants to understand the gross physiology of being female and/or who wants to decrease or increase the potential for becoming pregnant without the inconveniences of pills, needles, latex, medical invasions, etc.
just wanted to take a moment to sing this book's praises.
i consider myself to have had a pretty good sex education, but this book taught me just how little i actually learned (or, i should say, how little they actually taught me) about the menstrual cycle.
this book is a fucking must-keep-by-your-bed-for-handy-reference if you are any bit the female health nerd that i am.
you will learn so much about your own cycle, it will knock your socks off.
if you are actually in the midst of trying to avoid pregnancy or get pregnant, this book will knock your panties off.
I agree with nearly everyone else I know (and reviews from strangers) in that this book should be required reading for women and men regardless of their opinions on sex, pregnancy, etc.
And yes, I do think men should read it too.
Truly is a great presentation of a lot of information about your reproductive health - from basic cycle patterns, potential problems & how to identify them, understanding the cause & effects of it all, & how to chart successfully whether you're avoiding pregnancy or trying to achieve it.
Well, it's pretty obvious what this book is about. Personally, I think it's a good one, and I give the software that comes with it four stars. It would be five stars, but it is pink and purple, and that diminishes it a bit.I am an (usually rather quiet-ish) advocate of natural birth control, childbirth, and so on. I really like this book, although it is sometimes a bit overwhelming with the vast amount of information! Definitely a useful guide for any woman who would like to know a bit (or everything!) more about how her body works.
Being a nurse and having worked in maternity with a long-running interest in women's health I considered myself to be quite knowledgeable of the subject matter, but I was amazed while reading this to realize how much I was ignorant of!
And yet with some simple awareness of how things are supposed to work both on the part of the woman and the medical provider (I'm willing to bet many of them are largely ignorant of the information herein, as was I) there would be much more productive conversations that would lead to more satisfactory outcomes (regardless of the outcome you're seeking!).Despite the thickness of this book it's actually quite a quick read.
Note: I am using this book for its BIRTH CONTROL section, not its seemingly "getting pregnant" aura from the cover.
I have been wanting an effective way to get off of hormonal birth control because I believe it is the last puzzle piece in the search to cure my migraines.
NOTE: THIS IS NOT THE RHYTHM METHOD WHICH IS A HIGHLY INEFFECTIVE FORM OF NATURAL BIRTH CONTROL!!!
Especially because if you want to use it for birth control, you don't need to read the "getting pregnant" or "pre-menopausal" sections and vice versa.
Also, a lot of the Appendix sections in the back are merely reference and only apply to certain circumstances.
I wish I could give two and a half stars, because "liked it" is a little too strong for my mixed emotions about this book. Pros: great charts and pictures and very user-friendly, and a wonderful resource for learning more about your fertility. Cons: Fertility awareness seems like a perfectly good method for *getting* knocked up, but not preventing it, and I'm hesitant to recommend a book that actually promotes it as a method of birth control. Also, the non-informational writing is really cheesy and apparently targeted towards women with neanderthal husbands?
This book was recommended to me by my female doctor. While in nursing school I lent this book to one of my instructors who used the pictures to show the class about cervical fluids and what not. Amazing that most of those women in my class had no idea that cervical fluid had any relation to fertility! I would highly recommend this book to any female of menses age. The more women know about their bodies, the more empowered we become.
Whether you want to get pregnant or avoid pregnancy, whether you're taking birth control pills or attempting more manual methods of contraception, if you're a woman who cares about how her body actually works, you should read this book.
While I think that birth control pills were the right contraceptive option for me during the years I wanted to avoid pregnancy — my ovulation cycle has always been much too irregular to depend on my physical signals — I am, in retrospect, sad that I spent a over a decade taking a drug without understanding the system it was regulating.
Excellent resource book for ANY woman, not just those that are trying to get pregnant. I think I learned more about my body from this book than I ever did in Health Class! If you are interested in what is happening to your body and why your body does what it does, then you should get this book! It also has an entire chapter on women and Menopause.
I generally reserve 5* for books that change my life. This is one of them.
I have to agree with another reviewer and simply say that this book changed my life, and after reading it for the first time a few years ago I'm surprised that I waited so long to review it.
Though not only for those trying to conceive, it's hands down the best and IMO the only book women who are in the early stages of fertility issues should read.
So bottom line even if you're not trying to conceive at this point in your life, please read this book, you will not be disappointed.
This book is supposedly the bible of natural family planning and that's a real disservice to women and their partners.
She discusses how the failure rates of most contraceptives are higher when you consider typical use (how the average consumer typically uses a particular contraceptive) versus perfect use but glides over the fact that the very much higher typical use failure rate of the methods outlined here may be a major disadvantage to the method.
A resource on natural family planning and on reproductive health awareness should be a part of every woman's library, but this book shouldn't be it.
Ok, people kept recommending this book to me, and I was all like, "Dudes, I'm not even trying to conceive yet, and I'm sure as hell not doing any kind of Rhythm Method crazypants birth control, so why?"I WAS WRONG, YOU GUYS.I finally picked this up and ended up finding it so fascinating that I basically finished it in one go.
Using it to avoid conception would take a slightly higher level of commitment, but it seems completely do-able, and is definitely an actual option for women who can't or don't want to use other methods of birth control.
This book contains all the information we should have learned in health class in school.
I've learned so much with it, and use it as a reference quite often.If you are squeamish about your own body, then you will definitely not be comfortable reading it, but honestly, it's necessary.
Even if you don't use the birth control or pregnancy achievement steps in this book, it's good for understanding how things work and why certain things happen.
In addition, if you following the tracking Toni Weschler recommends, it can help identify when things are not working as they should be.All in all, every woman should read this book.
I think mostly women come across this book as a resource for infertility, which is a shame because what they teach you in your elementary maturation class doesn't tell you much about your body.
Do you know why specific symptoms occur in relation to your cycle and what they mean?
Do you truly understand how your body works?
I didn't and sadly I didn't think I needed to know or rather I wasn't aware there was such basic information I didn't know that didn't require medical school to understand.
It should be about you wanting to know how your body functions so you understand why things happen and what they mean.
I had no idea that the things I thought were weird and gross about my body were totally natural. I'm reading this book because I want to get pregnant. Let's just say that thanks to this book, I have my husband charting my daily temperature on a graph on the fridge. It's just too cute.
I read this book several years ago and it is so cool! I would recommend it to every woman of childbearing age. It's very empowering to know what's going on with my body and what I should or shouldn't worry about.
This was fascinating and so informative. I would definitely recommend if you want to know more about your reproductive health.
every woman, if not every person, should know how her body works, and how to work with it to achieve maximum health. fight the lack of knowledge and misinformation out there!
Alas, it took me until I was in my 30s and we were trying to get pregnant with our second child (who is now 4 months old, by the way, so the "pregnancy achievement" part worked for me!
TBD on the "natural birth control" part), that I understood how my body works.
I am reading it for the second time now, focusing on some of the chapters that I skipped last time.
I also think that more weight is given to trying to achieve pregnancy than trying to avoid it.
Understanding how the body works and how subtle changes affect you is fascinating!
For instance, I had no idea that ovulation can be significantly delayed but that the postovulatory (luteal) phase, the time between ovulation and menstruation, is almost always the same for any individual woman (i.e. Mae's phase is 12 days long, Erika's is 11 days long, Nelly's phase is 15 days long).
As a teenager I regularly suspected I had yeast infections, turns out it was completely normal cervical fluid.
Also turns out it's virtually impossible to become pregnant if you don't have wet-quality cervical fluid.
This book should be required reading for ALL women.
I thought while reading it that we should have learned much of this in health class in 7th grade.
I believe that after 6 years of unexplained infertility, and countless painful and heartbreaking procedures, this book gave me the "tools" that helped conceive my two beautiful children WITHOUT any assistance.
As a matter of fact, I had completely given up on all fertility treatments and was only following two simple suggestions when we conceived my first child.
Don't give up hope of conception until you read this book!
I cannot recommend this book enough. Every woman needs to read this - whether they're trying to get pregnant, prevent it, or even those who are unmarried, for understanding their cycle. I just started using the method discussed in this book recently after conventional birth control was not computing with me, and now I wish I had found it much sooner. Knowing and understanding how your body works is so powerful.
This should be essential reading for ALL women. There was so much about my body that I never paid attention to, and this book was immensely helpful in understanding its rhythms.
It said things that could even be hurtful, like telling women to start having children in their 20s, don't wait until their 30s...but many women who read books on fertility are entering their 30s and are desperate to preserve their fertility.
It even had the nerve to say something about birth defects and chromosome disorders in babies born to older mothers.
The reason the myth got started is because in the past when the studies were first done, fewer babies were born to older mothers, so the pool in that category was smaller, so when a baby did have a birth defect, it appeared as if the odds were huge, but it was not so.
(okay from here on in it turned less into a review so much as a rant, but one last thing, I love how updated this 20th Anniversary edition is I ordered it again in paperback instead of just kindle)It is mind blowing to me that people think getting pregnant is easy.
Periods are not just horrible monthly visitors who make your life miserable without reason.I had been practicing charting and the Fertility Awareness Method before reading the book, for about 6 months.
