https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/189968.Conquered_City
The city was thus dying.
And, like shipwrecked men on a raft devouring each other, we were about to fight among ourselves, workers against workers, revolutionaries against revolutionaries."Serge here writes on the besieged city of St. Petersburg, or Leningrad, or Petrograd.
We have proclaimed the liberation of men, and we need prisons, an "iron" discipline — yes, to pour our human weakness into brazen molds in order to accomplish what is perhaps beyond our strength — and we are the bringers of dictatorship.
We have proclaimed fraternity, but it is "fraternity and death" in reality.
Conquered City by Victor Serge is the second novel that I’ve read set in the Civil War that followed the 1917 Bolshevik coup in Russia.
It’s set in and around Kiev in the Ukraine at a particularly troubled and uncertain time in history, just as Serge's book is set in and around Saint Petersburg - then called Petrograd – during the same troubled months.
As a novel Conquered City is a bit like a painting, impressionist and expressionist at one and the same time.
There are other novels of Serge’s I’ve still to read, better perhaps, so Conquered City may not stand as his final testament.
For example, this excerpt from the foreword quotes Serge to describe both his primary thematic interest in writing the book, and his conscious aim to create a narrative greater than any one character:"His goal in writing Conquered City, he wrote to [French author Marcel] Martinet in 1930, was to 'reconstitute with the greatest accuracy and precision the atmosphere of one period of the Russian Revolution.
. In [Conquered City], I would like to dramatize the conflict of that power grappling with history and itself -- and victorious.' Serge went on to outline for Martinet his plan for this new novel which he believes will be 'radically different' in its form compared to'any I have read.
Conquered City is about the years 1919-1920, when the Bolsheviks have largely prevailed but are being assailed from within by Mensheviks and Left SR's and from without by the White Russian armies financed by the Western powers.Conquered City skips around from one set of revolutionaries and counter-revolutionaries to another.
The hero is Petrograd itself, which was at the time threatened from the West by a White army.Several years ago, I read Serge's The Case of Comrade Tularev, which I found to be one of the best, if not the best, fiction relating to Stalin's purges.
Conquered City is part three of the 'Victory in Defeat, Defeat in Victory' cycle that Serge wrote detailing in a semi-autobiographical way his experiences of being incarcerated just before the outbreak of WW1, taking part in the Barcelona uprising of 1917 and his eventual journey across a war-torn Europe and into Russia after the Revolution that had occurred there in 1917, being exchanged (as he was a political prisoner) for ex-Tsarist hostages.
Serge, through his characters discourse throughout the book have conversations regarding just how far you would go to make sure the revolution survived; do the ends really justify the means, no matter how bloody they turn out to be?
"...workers are changing the world, just as they demolish, build, forge, throw bridges across rivers. We will throw a bridge from one universe to the other. Over there: the black and yellow peoples, the brown peoples, the enslaved peoples ..Words no longer followed her thoughts in their ineffable flight. The shimmering crosses of the churches attracted her eyes. Old faith, we will break you too. We will take the crucified one down off the cross. We want people to forget him. No more symbols of
"...workers are changing the world, just as they demolish, build, forge, throw bridges across rivers.
No more symbols of humiliation and suffering on the earth, no more blindness; knowledge, the clear eye of man, the master of himself and of things, rediscovering the universe afresh.From the mouth of a pink street surged trucks, bristling with bayonets.
Each is poignant, direct, convincing, and true for the moment-- but the truth is that many of these identities and narrative positions are subject to change.
Much of the wide frame of action and political thought that comprises the book is examined, questions answered and discussed, in the Foreward.
In another chapter, we could (if we're lucky) observe some more action, but then in any chapter which follows on the heels of that, we might easily discover two wholly new characters engaged in a revolutionary dialog, (abstract political debate so artificial and phony that no two people would ever engage in it, were the tale drawn from real life).
Peering closely at what Serge set out to do--trying to identify some rhyme-or-reason--I suppose the author is attempting to show that as befalls his characters--some sort of 'divine hand of revolutionary justice' intervened in their lives, dealt them their fates, and disposed of their dreams according to the merit of their revolutionary beliefs.
Serge was there. It's one thing to read historic accounts based on documentary evidence, but sometimes reading an account by a participant who cared, lost and survived is more immediate.
This is a round robin of voices and lives in the Civil War period in Petrograd following the Revolution, recognizable political leaders, representative types, it hits the high (and low) points, the great suffering of the working class and the even greater suffering of the non-proletariat, the terrible shortages, the ironic full circle suffered by the Special Commission (CHeKa) is especially premonitory of the Stalinist purges.
However, the perspectives and events really cover the range--the characterizations are painted with a lively quick brush, the feel of Petersburg is gorgeous for such a short book.
Petrograd (cf.
St Petersburg, Leningrad) finds itself at the center of the post Russian revolution civil war.
Bandits, thugs and looters associate themselves with whichever side is in ascendancy as the germinating security state begins the grim task of deciding who should live or die in the name of progress.
Its officials find themselves seeking out the traitors as part of the Special Commission, the precursor to Stalin's Cheka.
For its chilling account of how ordinary well-meaning people turn into the tools of a brutal bureaucracy alone, this is a masterpiece.
Inspiring, beautifully written, a work with enviable experimental form. Composed in fragments and therefore easy - pleasurable - to dip in and out of; a prime example of modernist literature, therefore hard to read tiredly, or without your full attention. An interesting literary and historical curiosity (and I mean this as a sincere, not at all dismissive, compliment).
This the third of a sequence of novels that took in the themes of imprisonment, the lives of revolutionaries in Barcelona, in an internment camp in France, and on arrival in Red Petrograd, and finally the struggle to hold on to that city during the years of the civil war.This last volume is a stark portrait of a city gripped in a deep winter, with hunger and disease threatening the population, and with White Russian armies and their foreign allies surrounding the city.
Nonetheless history pushes them forward, drags them along, grinds them down, pulls them by the millions out of their teached huts to the sound of the tocsin, of mobiliazationns, piles them ino cattle cares, puts repeating rifles into their hands (hands which guided wooden plows or turned over haystacks with slow movements consecreated since the peopling of Eurasia), throws these human masses against Europe in Prussia, against Asia in Armenia, parades them through french port towns and scatters their bones in champagne, lines them up -- Ivan, Matvei, Timochka -- alongside helmeted Senegalese, turbaned Sikhs, and Tommies with pipes in their teeth, against methodical Germans whose leaders are all doctors and who go into battle wearing piglike masks preceded by waves of gas...
This is a great episodic book, albeit difficult to understand unless you are a Russian Culture student or interested in Russian History (or a general historian).
That hatred, like all other veils of power, is a mask that justifies the eternal political power struggle between élites, and oppressive lengths every class will go to in order to perpetuate their power once they attain it, coupled with the unflinching utilization of blood to retain said power.
Hands which have moved stones, earth, manure, metals, fire, and blood will applaud you (And the pedect voice sang out The Song of the Knout.
Conquered City is a novel of the Russian civil war between the Reds and Whites after the Russian Revolution.
They cling to a vision of a perfect society of peace and equality that awaits generations in the future even as they help build a society without mercy, one purged of expertise in industry and agriculture but sustained by the holdover expertise of the czar’s prison guards and secret police.The novel covers a year of the civil war and begins and ends with scenes that echo one another, in part the echo is word for word.
It is necessary.’ The bells covered them.
This particular title is from his revolution cycle, which deals chiefly with the Russian Civil War. It's got a bunch of quotes like the following:"If the human species could achieve a collective sensibility for five minutes, it would either be cured or drop dead on the spot.""The most important thing is to make ourselves useful: to do what must be done...All weapons are good.
Just check out the opening lines, describing the bleakness that is Petersburg winter:"The long nights seemed reluctant to abandon the city.
This story of the attempt of the Red Army to fend off the White in St. Petersburg in 1919 is fabulously good.
With blistering if difficult prose he describes the thought processes of a menagerie of different characters on both sides of the struggle, die-hard Soviet Partisans and White Army hold-outs, peasants and prostitutes and bandits, all well-realized and clearly drawn from the author's own experience in the conflict.
Were there sword fights?
No, but there was a brief knife fight which I thought was done well.
An excellent, multi-voiced account of St. Petersburg in 1919, Conquered City uses an episodic approach borne out of Mr. Serge's circumstances at the time the novel was written to paint a picture of a city collapsing under its own weight.
Characters are deftly drawn, and Mr. Serge's voice is, as ever, taut and somewhat oblique, throwing you into the fire an forcing you to draw out the significance of each episode.
This is an entertaining but inconsistent read, and falters a little toward the end, mostly under the weight of the mood of the narrative, which is, of course, a downer.
I've wanted to read Victor Serge for a long time--he was an intellectual hero of one of my intellectual heroes, Dwight MacDonald.
But this may not be the place to begin.
It's a bleak, unsparing look at Leningrad in the midst of the Russian Civil War, circa 1919-20.
Terror and abject poverty abound, and the workers who made the revolution understandably wonder--as did the soldiers in Cromwell's army (see The Putney Debates or Light Shining in Buckinghamshire)--what they got out of it.
It's a wonder that Serge kept his faith in revolution and socialism intact.
Perhaps his memoir explains how.
A rather bland depiction of St. Petersburg during the Civil War. Yeah, bad stuff happens to good people, but Serge is still fixated on the general idea of socialism as a good thing, and therefore he equivocates. Rather than railing against the system (like Koestler or Solzhenitsyn), he rails against greedy bureaucrats, lazy workers, and spineless party members unable to stand up for what they believe in. In the end perhaps Serge's nuanced approach is more correct, but it doesn't make for good reading.
Terrific 1st person boots on the ground story of the Russian revolution. Yes it can happen here. We are all just an insane bread line ( where there is no actual bread) away from complete meaninglessness. A world where you pay for flour with diamonds and EVERYONE in town has VD after the army passes through. Oh and Spoiler alert for anyone not up on their history: Everybody dies.
A great portrait of St. Petersburg after the October Revolution, but before the Bolsheviks have consolidated full power. As noted in the introduction yes, there is a plot, but this really the story of a city and it's climate in the throes of revolution (and violent uncertainty).
I find it hard to share Serge's optimism for our future, but these are powerful books.
Stunning. Rereading.
Fascinating depiction of life in St. Petersburg under attack from within and without. Portrayal of Bolshevik activists is particularly interesting and multi-faceted.
Read it - it's massive!
I can't get enough of Russia these days, especially the story of Leningrad/St Petersburg - the Conquered city of the title.
7
Feels like lived experience but with the names changed to protect the guilty.Pity the story is such a downer.
