https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/187044.Bear
She f*cked a bear.She literally f*cked a bear.No. This isn't some euphemism for a beefy gay man. She motherf*cking literally f*cked a literal bear.   What. The. Hell.   Okay. So. I'm not a cultured reader. I read mostly YA and...well...that's about it. BUT, I am a reader.  A layman reader.  So, here is the review from a casual just-for-fun reader:She f*cked a bear.For the record: did I pick up this book knowing there will be bear-f*ckery? No. I picked it because I wanted (for once) to read a nov
So, here is the review from a casual just-for-fun reader:She f*cked a bear.For the record: did I pick up this book knowing there will be bear-f*ckery?
Yes, it was a bit odd - it was odd that she thinks of the bear with so many human emotions, that she goes skinny-dipping with him, that she notices his very "male-ness" when she first meets him....but I maintain that at this point, there wasn't any indication that things were going to go so far south.
ded.first of all, i want to thank bill thompson, for sending me this book from canada.
i am now prepared for the customer/patron question: "do y'all have any books where a bear goes down on a lady??" yes.
oh, taboo!!) no, but, i'm not censuring the way she writes the sex scenes by calling them icky, is the point.
she writes a sex scene better than stephen king, and better than most of the romance novels i had to read for school.
come for the animal sex scenes, stay for the commentary on loneliness and communication.
Lou takes up with a chained bear that's become a “pet” on the island and appears to have been pleasing men and women for years.
I don't want to do MY paperwork, let alone read about LOU'S paperwork for her boring ass job.
she's stuck on an island near a chained, filthy bear and a boring married man with nine children.
This is IMPORTANT information).But, the man, Homer, has “a good long prick and he used it.” (Not to be discounted, big picture).And, CLEARLY, Lou's not one for clever conversation (either giving it or taking it), so why does she choose the bear that smells like “shit and musk.
O, sex with a bear.Did I just say that?
Sex with a bear.God bless 1976, when a book about a lonely, bookish woman who, sent up to the northern Ontario wilderness for work, has sexy-times with a bear, wins the Governor General's Award.
It's a weird little book, to say the least.
Not a people who have sex with actual animals, or celebrate stories about people who do this by bestowing literary awards thereupon.
We've kinda put it by the wayside, in favour of The Handmaid's Tale or The English Patient, which are, let's face it, a little more respectable, eh.I finished reading it, perplexed.
Is this a book where a Canadian woman called Lou smears honey on her labia minora and has a black bear lick it off?
Yes.Is this a book where Lou falls in love with a bear?
And whilst there are no promises that her existenz will transform in any meaningful way, at the very least Lou goes back with replenished belief in the validity of life: because, for the first time ever, she has been touched by the redeeming nurture of Love.Even if it was a bear, and not a Canadian Man who showed her the way.
After stumbling across this on imgur I feel like it's my duty to read this. For research purposes. I feel like I'm probably going to regret this decision.
Everything else I say will be a huge spoiler so if you prefer to read without knowing, don't click.(view spoiler)[So in this very short novel, the librarian, Lou has repeated intimate relations with a bear who is also part of the estate.
This and several funny internet sites that regularly point out strange book covers are probably the sole reasons for a surge in interest in the book, although it has continued to be a part of the Canadian literary cannon for students, apparently.
shows a cover or two and screenshots a few of the most explicit bear sex parts without providing the context of the novel.
Marian Engel's Governor General's Award winning novel, BEAR, is a unique little masterpiece.
In the beginning, Lou steers clear of the bear.
As time passes, Lou begins to think of the bear, dream of the bear, even interact with the bear.
But, again, Engel is so deft with her writing that the relationship between the bear and Lou never comes across as cartoonish.
Lou engages the bear.
Lou tricks the bear into pleasing her orally.
The picture of the bear pleasing Lou orally was so clear in my mind I had to stop and take a break from reading the novel.
LMAO THIS SOUNDS HORRIBLE AND GROSSIM GONNA READ IT LADS
Startling things happen, sure, but in such a matter-of-fact way that it hardly seems to be out of the ordinary when a human woman, somewhat late in the novella, begins to find passionate fulfillment in an erotic and increasingly risky relationship with a pet bear.
But deeper than any of these connections with mythological stories I felt a connection with bear and woman as the meeting of two extremely lonely creatures, who find solace in one another, and even, yes, love.
Lou is a woman who, we are told, only feels purposeful and grounded by having instructions, but she ends up having sex with the bear, and through that, having unnamed guilt healed by having her back clawed, thereby experiencing a rebirth.(I'll give you a short pause to digest that .
There was absolutely no heat, no smell, no organic motivation for this woman who thrives on cataloging to suddenly identify herself as a person who always goes too far, to have completely unsensual sex with the man who helps her out, to start yelling to the bear to tear her head off.The first thing I associate with a bear is heat—body, breath.
Wherein a youngish but isolated-in-her-modern-life archivist leaps at a chance to move into a different sort of isolation (cataloguing an estate library on a remote island) and bonds somewhat surreally-yet-unanthropomorphically-realistically with a certain member of the local semi-wildlife. The notes and asides delivered in slips of paper from the past, the setting, the hard deadpan "reality" of the delivery are all handled perfectly. Especially the latter. In another book this would slip into absurdity or grotesquerie, or slip into a fabulous or myth that would deprive this of its clever thematic immediacy and pertinence. Somehow, instead, it's utterly convincing.
Lou’s masculine name, and the changes in her body that alter her perception of her own age and gender, also suggest that Engels is toying with more than just fluidity in the species of the novel’s two main characters.I also identified with Lou. Having just finished a project that I dedicated the better part of my summer to, feeling as if I’ve been chained to my desk and experiencing days in a row where I do not leave my house for fear of losing an hour, a minute, a second of work, I appreciated her methodical habits and the moment when she realizes it has been too long since she’s read for pleasure.
The irony here being that this pure love, viewed from a human perspective, is perverse.
Society has conditioned us to think one way, but only relations with animals (outside of society) can fulfill a potential of pure encounter, without conventions, mores, judgement--but fully present and sensual.I love the attention she pays to the muskiness of the bear, the physical roughness and reality, to the non-human smells and textures, the strange equalness of the pair based on her desire for that rawness, yet her inevitable inability to handle that rawness.(Did I mention I have a bear-bear shelf?
I have nothing to add to the mountain of words, both adulatory and damning, that have been written about this book, except that perhaps more than with any other book reviewed on this site, I wish that, freedom of speech be damned, I could delete other users' reviews. For the love of reading, people, it's a novel.
He dudado... pero al final cinco estrellas. Una obra maestra perturbadora. Una genialidad.
The 1970s sextastic cover promises bear erotica, which has caused many chuckles because it's a an award-winning Canadian book so hahaha those crazy Canucks.
The summary: A quiet, young librarian gets an assignment to catalogue a collection on a remote island.
On the island she finds a tame bear and she begins to question herself about life, relationships and her previous existence in the city.
In the city she's not depressed, but she's not happy either, just going through the motions.
The island and the bear change her.
That doesn't mean that there isn't some sexual stuff in here, but it's more depressing than titillating.
3.75/5Libro recomendable para todo aquel que busque una lectura transgresora y enteramente distinta a cualquier cosa leída y por leer. Oso no gustará a todo el mundo, pero en ningún caso les dejará indiferentes. Reseña completa:http://www.libros-prohibidos.com/mari...
As Margret Grebowicz argues in “When Species Meat: Confronting Bestiality Pornography,” “[h]ow might we begin to distinguish between the sexual agency we anthropomorphically project onto animals (in the production of porn, for instance) and their real sexual agency, the very thing which render them rapeable (at least in human legal terms) in the first place?” Because animals cannot verbally give informed consent, they are legally in line with humans who cannot — for instance, the severely mentally handicapped and underaged people — in this way, all sexual encounters with animals are rape.
It was the night of the falling stars. She took him to the riverbank. They swam in the still, black water. They did not play. They were serious that night. They swam in circles around each other, very solemnly. Then they went to the shore, and instead of shaking himself on her, he lay beside her and licked the water from her body while she, on her back, let the stars fall, one, two, fourteen, a million, it seemed, falling on her, ready to burn her. Once she reached up to one, it seemed so close
Sent to Cary Island to archive the contents of its only home, Lou -- a city girl with no love for either nature or animals -- has a transformative experience that frees her from the unsatisfying gender politics of sexual relations.Bear has enjoyed a surge in popularity based on this recent Imgur  post, and although I can understand why a love affair between a woman and a bear makes for good internet smartassery, this book isn't really smutty or overly graphic.
A true gem of a novella. Engel’s third-person limited narration and simple but elegant prose fit perfectly to this modern take on the fairy tale, complete with a woman, a bear, and a library in an octagonal house on an island in the deep woods of the north (Canada). The running commentary on the books and the notes in the library that the protagonist is archiving is wonderful. This novel has such a wonderful sense of balance, something its protagonist lacks. The narrator and the protagonist make a better pair than the protagonist and the bear. A 4.5.
This book was "unbearable"PUN INTENDED!
For booklovers, even the premise that somewhere in a wilderness setting there is a beautiful old house full of antiques and books waiting to be discovered, or even catalogued, held and read and treasured.
Yes, Lou has sex with the bear.
Yes, I think it is odd, but actually I think she did better with the bear than she did with the ex-lover and the Director of the Institute over the desk.
That has more humanity than many humans.A short book that I think will linger in my mind for a long time.
What a wonderful read! I don't know that I would have picked it up without a book group's challenge to read a "book outside my comfort zone", but a protagonist engaging in bestiality certainly fit the description. But it ended up being so much more than shocking and shallow, which was almost what I was expecting. It's a strong feminist story about self-realization and empowerment, and the boundaries of personal power. It's an absorbing story and I'm happy to have given it a chance.
Atraído por su chocante y surrealista reclamo, inicié la lectura del clásico de Marian Engel esperando encontrarme una novela obscena, perturbadora y en cierta medida vulgar, pero basta adentrarse apenas un par de páginas en la historia de Oso para darse cuenta de que ese anticipado affaire no es más que una excusa empleada para ahondar en cavidades inexploradas del alma humana que van más allá de la simple parafilia.
Más bien, Marian Engel elabora en torno a la figura de su protagonista (una mujer entristecida, solitaria, frustrada por sus decepcionantes relaciones con los hombres y por el rumbo errante que ha tomado su vida) un emocionante y cautivador relato sobre la feminidad, la necesidad de afecto y la importancia de recuperar las formas más elementales de comunicación.
So...I read this book because there was an article about it floating around Facebook.
I believe the actual title of that article was something like 'What the actual fuck, Canada?' because this is a book wherein a woman gets licked by a bear.
Bear sex.
Bear sex with an actual real bear.
Ms. Engel can freaking write, dudes.Which may be part of the problem for me.
which then makes you pretty uncomfortable to read because it's between a woman and a bear.
Now I can say that I've read a book with human/bear sex.
I read this novel in my late teens (a few years after it was published) and remember being strongly impressed by it.
Strangely enough, I remember its beautiful interior-looking writing balanced with detailed descriptions of nature (especially swarms of black flies) more than anything very graphic or gratuitous about the sex scenes (even as strange as they are).
I generally dislike detailed sex scenes in novels so, now, many years later, I’m wondering if I’ve shut those scenes from my memory or if the outrage I see being expressed in some of the other reviews here on Goodreads are mostly just histrionics?
Una mujer sola en una isla remota al norte de Canadá.
Una casa llena de libros.
Whisky.
Un oso.Una novela sobre la soledad y la necesidad de establecer afectos, una novela feminista y no tanto, una novela sobre el amor por la naturaleza tan maltratada por la presencia humana.La cita que se encuentra antes de comenzar el libro propiamente dicho: "Los hechos se vuelven arte mediante el amor, que los unifica y los encumbra a un plano más elevado de la realidad; en el paisaje, este amor que todo lo abarca está expresado por la luz." Kenneth Clark, El arte del paisaje.Un artículo de Babelia: http://cultura.elpais.com/cultura/201...
Lou is one of the great feminist heroes of literature. At once daring, philosophical, and deeply insightful, "Bear" offers a gorgeously written rumination on sexuality, women, and what it means to be alone with oneself.
A brilliant book and one of my favourites. When I was doing my MA at the University of Toronto, I went to McMaster University in Hamilton (who hold's Engel's personal letters) to do some research on her papers. Someone really should do a PhD on her correspondence.
