https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1087403.Lace
Sjajna visokokvalitetna komercijalna ženska knjiga... aktuelna i zanimljiva i 30 godina posle originalnog objavljivanja... I sjajna ekranizacija... Čipke... :)
The first time I read this I was 11 years old (yes, really) because I had finished reading the stack of books I'd taken out of the library and, as I often did when I sped through my tower of borrowed books, I stole a book off of my parents' shelves.This was hardly shocking to me at 11, until I got the chapter where the Arab prince is pleasuring his concubine, and that image has since stayed with me in a weird way.
Even now I'm not sure I ever needed half of that information.That being said, the book is entertaining.
We've all heard lines in movies that have stuck with us forever, but this was the first time I'd read a book and had that happen to me!
My love of literature began early in my life, but Shirley Conrans' Lace was one of the first novels that got me excited and hence I remember it vividly (although I re-read it recently, just to be sure you see).
And this is not the last time you will hear me say this!) But back to Lace...As a teenager I loved Lily!
Of the four possible mothers of Lily my bet was with Pagan.
Which is where because I remember this book aver 27 years.
I was but a wee child of 12 when I read this book.
There were several erotic scenes in here that as a 12 year old really intrigued me due to my predisposition towards kinky sex.
But to have relations with a male who had sex with your mother is wrong yet exciting.I also remember some of the kinky scenes in here back when this was very rarely written.
I remember when I read this book if I was sick or something was wrong with me.
By the time it got to the end, I had narrowed down the potential mother to one of two, and of those two it was not the one I had expected.I don't really read books for sex (I swear!
That didn't at all detract from how much I loved it, though - in fact, I think that escapism of being set in a different world to the world of 2012 made the bits I did identify with resonate more.Let's talk briefly about how sheltered and privileged the characters in this book - and the book itself - are.
I'd never read this or seen the mini-series when it first came out (sorry, but I have to admit to being old enough for that); then everyone started doing Grey comparisons and I saw, somewhere, that this was the "Original BONKBUSTER", so I had to read it.
I liked the characters, I liked the plot; the storyline drew me in, and some of the set-piece situations are nothing short of brilliant.
Weaving 5 strands of a story over a 20+ year timeframe was very skilful, and the various red-herrings kept the suspense going right up to the end.
Before you read my review, siddle up to your mother and ask her about the goldfish scene in Lace (1982).
I doubt there is a woman alive who lived through the 1980s without reading or watching Lace.
The novel opens with one of its most famous scenes, the young actress, Lili, has gathered four women to a hotel room in New York.
The numerous sex scenes present in this novel gave way to a new genre, the bonkbuster.
This is a novel about women owning their own lives.
Lace is The Women’s Room meets Deep Throat.I think it is obvious that I adored this novel.
Konusu İsviçre de yatılı okulda okuyan dört kızımızın yıllar sonra bir otel odasında ünlü film yıldı
Ok, so I watched the movie many years ago and decided to read the book.
I'm glad I watched the movie first.
Once in a while I'm into the chic lit drama that seems to attack my inner child and give in to the juicy, bad mouthed, mystery of 4 women whom one had birthed a child in secret.
The book was written very well and held my attention as flashes of the movie came into play.
However, I think I outgrew the chic lit drama scene in my 30's so it wasn't as enjoyable the new phase of crime mysteries I read.
Awesome novel!
Very well written and kept me surprised and very interested.
I would recommend it to anyone.
Warning...
There is a second novel called Lace 2 (how original, right?) I'm telling you, do not google it and ruin the plot event for yourself.
Naturally my curiosity got the best of me as I was trying to figure out what the second book was called and came across BIG AND BOLD the whole premise the story is based on.
I was only half way through the book and my world shattered!
Do me a favor, don't ruin it for yourself!
It's nice to see female friendship portrayed like that, because that really is how the really good ones are.I've learned that there's a sequel, in which Lili goes looking for her father (the stated father is dead, so I guess she learns that that wasn't true after all?), and I think I'm going to read that, because there really were good reasons for her mother to keep that information to herself, so I'm actually quite curious how all that's going to go down.
As there was often little interaction between the four women or mention of them in each others lives this made dovetailing where each section of the story fitted together rather difficult.I also found it difficult to establish an emotional connection with any of the women involved.
I felt that it finished without answering any questions and leaving more issues to be resolved than had been hinted at during the entirety of the book.
I know there is a sequel to this book, but I am not in any hurry to spend any more time with these women.
"Which one of you bitches is my mother?" I instantly knew I was hooked after reading this line.Lace centres around the lives of four best friends depicting their lives from the forties to the late seventies.
I also liked that Conran based the characters' lives and experiences on aspects of her own life.
Lace is not as trashy as most people believe.
There is far less sex than I was led to believe too.
Looking forward to watching the Lace mini-series and also continuing the characters lives in Lace 2.
The first time there is always pain, little bird." Like many men he didn't regard rape as rape if it didn't happen in a back alley and there weren't any bruises.'This book isn't just entertaining and fun and sexy (because there are also juicy yummy sex scenes), it's also a real testament to the white middle class woman's experience of rape culture in the years after World War II.
This book has been undeservedly classed as trashy, most likely because it is a bestseller written by a woman that involves love, sex and romance.
But Shirley Conran and this novel deserve to be reconsidered.
This book was full of every cliche possible, it had no overarching story seeming rather to be a collection of as many sexual situations the author could think of, and these were not well written. Having finished the book it seemed to me that the first and final parts were connected but that almost the entirety of the rest of the book could easily have been skipped without detracting from the reveal at the end. This book is very long and not worth the investment it demands.
Read this book at least 3 time or so and this was a 5 star book for me back in the days.Still have the Dutch hardback and my daughter wanted something to read. Gave her Lace and she loved it. Wanted to read the sequel as well.Great book if you want to read something light.
"Which one of you bitches is my mother?" Priceless. That line took the story.
Lili travels from there to a private meeting with the elderly Hortense Boutin, who Lili knows was paying money on behalf of one of the school's students to a family which adopted the student's illegitimate child.
Pagan Trelowney is now Lady Swann, a British aristocrat, and the wife of a famous cancer researcher who devotes her time to raising money for his charitable foundation, Judy Hale has become a respected journalist, war correspondent, and now publisher of Lace magazine, while Maxine Pascal is now the Countess de Chazalle, a French socialite, who has rebuilt her husband's estate.Slowly, deliberately, Lili inveigles herself in the life of the three women - promising then reneging on an exclusive interview with Judy to re-launch her magazine, offering and threatening to take away from Pagan a charity premiere of her new film to raise money for research, and seducing Maxine's son, intending to estrange him from his mother.
Bu yorum aynı zamanda Romancekolikte yayınlanmıştır.Bu kitap hafızanıza kazınacak detaylarıyla sizi kitaba bağlayıp bitene kadar bırakmayan türden. Çoklu karakterler anlatımına müthiş bir örnektir. Her karakteri süper bir incelikle işlemiş, gizemi ve macerayı hikayeye özenle örmüş yazarımız. Ben şaşkınlıkla ve yazarı içimden tebrik ederek okudum.  Konumuz dört kızımızın İskoçya'da ki şık bir yatılı okulda tanışmaları ile o sene gençliğin ve başlarında ebeveyn olmamalarının verdiği başdöndürücü
Konumuz dört kızımızın İskoçya'da ki şık bir yatılı okulda tanışmaları ile o sene gençliğin ve başlarında ebeveyn olmamalarının verdiği başdöndürücü özgürlük duygusuyla cinsel kimliklerinin farklarına varırlar.
Bu dört kadından birinin çocuğu olan kızımız ise tam bir insalık dramı içinde hayat yaşamıştır.
Çocuk 20'li yaşlardadır, kızımız ise 13...
Beraber olurlar ve kız hamile kalınca adam ona parayı verip kürtaj olucağı yeri söylemesiyle ortadan kaybolur.
Kız ne yapıcağını şaşırmış bir şekilde o yeri bulur ama parası yetmiyordur.
Oradaki kadın çıplak pozlar karşılığında ona para vericek birini önerir ve kızımızın seks sembolü olmasının hikayesi böylelikle başlar.
diyeceğiniz bir kitap.
Bir gün mutlaka o kitabıda okuyacağım.
I read this first when I was a teenager in the 80s and all I really remembered about it was that there was a lot of sex.
But, I read it as a story that is really about female friendship and how important that is in the lives of the four central characters.
I applaud Shirley Conran for that, as I'm not sure there are that many books which at their heart are about friendship, and for me, that is such an important part of life that I forgive Lace for all it's other failings and don't regret re-reading it.
Quivering....All the women in this book have experiences which involve quivering: whether he quivers, she quivers or they both quiver at the same time, after a while I shook my head every time the word was mentioned.
It must appear every two to three pages.
For a book supposedly about strong, intelligent women they sure go from one man to the next, their whole lives seem dominated by relationships.
It has such an unbelievable ending, I thought I was reading a spoof parody.
The book seemed to go on and on and I ended up scanning it rushing to the end.
I was browsing barnes and noble and I'm not a romance type of reader but this book has open a new door for me.
I was hooked and read the whole book in less then a week.
I'm not gonna be a spoiler about the book but it's a great read about a companionship between a group of ladies.
One of the girls gives birth to a girl at a young age and she grows up and is in search for real her mother.
It keeps on your toes as they all grow up and you go through the journey with them.
Def. is one of my fav books.
I definitely put this novel in the "gaggle of girls" fiction genre. It rates with Mary McCarthy's The Group, Rona Jaffe's The Best of Everything, and Jacqueline Susann's Valley of the Dolls, with McCarthy's being the most superior in terms of writing. Lace is far more salacious than the others, at times even pornographic, but I suppose it was a mark of that era's sensibilities (late 70's, early 80's). It's enjoyable though, like Sex & the City-the European Version meets Penthouse Letters.
my long time favorite.... the plot was great. It was full of twists and excitement... I read this long time ago and I wanted to have a copy of this again. It's worth reading and I feel like reading it again. I'm amazed how the four girlfriends hid their secret for such a long time.... and how the story reveals the same.
Re-read as i first read this book over 25yrs ago. Took me straight back to 1982. Remembered lots of it, though there were parts i'd forgotten. As fab a read now as it was back then. Took me right back to my early teens & high school. Hope that Lace 2 will soon also be re-published as would love to re-read that also.
A fabulous novel from the 80s republished to show 50 Shades how it's really done. I vaguely remember reading this years and years ago and it's still a fabulous holiday read. Great characters and a silly plot. It's something that never pretends to be something else. Can't wait to read Lace 2.
first read this when i was about 14 and was gobsmacked by the content but loved the story. i re-read this every few years and 26 years on i still love it as much as i did when i first read it. It takes you away to a glamorous world and is totally trashy but thats why its so great!
I haven't read this book since I was a teenager and I don't plan to re-read anytime. I don't want to be disappointed by something I remember loving. Unfortunately that has happened when I've gone back to some book I loved when I was young (Savages by same author) and I've learned my lesson.
This was my first "grown up" book boy did it help me grow up.
This was the first real full length novel I read as a kid...I had to hide it from my mum. I was 15 I think and really enjoyed every bit of it. It was like the retro sex and the city!
