https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28251002-the-nix
exciting: Meryl Streep is going to star and produce "The Nix" mini series with JJ Abrams!!!!!All I knew about "The Nix" before I started reading my 625 page physical book, was the 'few' things I heard, ( "GOOD", "GREAT", "TERRIFIC WRITING", "SIMILAR to JONATHAN FRANZEN"......all of which I agree by the way), but I purposely have not read reviews-yet.
( crying, threats, drama-at-it's-best).....One of the funniest 'student/teacher' dialogues ever!!!Sam learns his mother -whom he has not seen for 20 years, is "Packer Attacker" The plan is....
In NIX 2....Faye changes the moral of the story for 'little Sam' to:"Things you love the most will one day hurt you the worst".
Picking out a quote to open a review of The Nix is no small undertaking. There are so many from which to choose. So I am just tossing this small selection out there up front. Feel free to choose your own opening quote. ”…when all you have is the memory of a thing,” she said, “all you can think about is how the thing is gone.” The things you love the most will one day hurt you the worst. …given enough time, any weight can become too much to bear..despite what the newspapers said, it was not the t
Maybe the root of his problem has to do with his mother leaving him and his father when he was nine-years-old, never to be seen again.Nathan Hill - from his siteIn Chicago, a particularly toxic Wyoming politician by the name of Sheldon Packer, with his entourage and media wake, is heading through Grant Park when a sixty-year-old woman picks up a handful gravel and heaves the lot in his general direction, with the vocal accompaniment, “You Pig.” The press being what the press is, she is instantly labeled The Packer Attacker.
Sam likes to think of life as a Choose-Your-Own-Adventure book in which it would be really great if you could mark the page where each decision was made, and go back to make a different choice, if the one you made the first time did not work out as hoped.
This one, however, was without a doubt worth the time.Mother and son over the long haul, Faye and Samuel - a great unfolding and refolding of their relationship.
Totally surprising, Hill masterfully used an online game called World of Elfscape with characters worthy of entire book for themselves.
There are many lesser characters all over the place that easily earned their time on the pages.
Guys: I know it's early but I'm going to proclaim this  the best book I've read this year.
Characters are all believably flawed without being dumb, the storyline makes sense, it all gets wrapped up at the end but leaves some questions unanswered (so we can talk about them in book club, weee!).
The book makes observations about many different things through the dialogue of the characters, so I will have to re-read it to underline some things.
This book is entirely unpretentious, a slow burn of a read that will make you think these characters are people you actually know.
So far I've picked up The Green Mile, Rabbit Run, and The Nix from this new library of mine, and those three books are some of my favorite reads of the year.
The plot seemed interesting, but I'm not really a 600+ page book kinda guy.
But then I started reading and I got sucked into the story right away.
It bounces around to different characters and time periods with pretty short chapters that keep the pages turning.
So much happens in the book and the author goes on some tangents at times that pull away from he main plot, but it's all so fun to read.
I took a quick look at Nathan Hill’s photo and immediately thought: young guy, kind of a bro, probably pretty full of himself.
Among other things, you get a boyhood friend into war games, the friends’ twin sister (a violin virtuoso and object of Samuel’s devotion), Faye’s undeserved miseries growing up, her father’s story dating back to his youth in Norway, Samuel’s gaming friend with an online addiction that’s plausible and scary, and Samuel’s literary agent who has his finger on the pulse of a nation replete with schlock, cynicism, and sanctimony.
Reader*,The Nix is exactly the type of novel I dread reviewing: one that has many good moments, some truly great moments, but is a letdown most consistently.Though my background is in science and medicine, my heart will always be with the written word.
I was astonished only in that it continued on, page after page, and by the end of it seemed more a cute experiment than something that added something to the main thrust of the book.But therein lies another problem: I’m not really sure what The Nix is trying to say.
It is a satire of the politics and media with timely observations and insights of the state of the nation captured in a clever and astute manner.
There is the dissection of the lives of Sam, his mother, Faye and other characters.
His mother, Faye, left the family when he was a young boy.
A bitter Sam reconnects with Faye which propels him to delve into her life.
We learn more about Sam's life and a more human picture emerges of Sam and Faye.
A fantastic story that captures the US in its current state so well.
I listened to the audio version of The Nix. Right now I'm at 4 stars but if the novel sticks with me I might bump it up to 4 1/2.
I know people are comparing this to The Goldfinch, and I get that, but I don't think the writing was as sophisticated as Tartt's book.
I will say that if you are going to read or listen to it, make the time for no long stretch stops.
5+++++ Star Audio!
Hopefully I can write better reviews again soon.
He should be working on his new book, but can’t recall the last time he really thought about it except in the way that one acknowledges those pesky thoughts that have a way of invading now and then.
There was nothing to stop anyone from, on any given day, vanishing.It’s after one of these escapades when he finds out that his mother, after all these years, is now on the news.
This is why he didn’t watch the news and know right way that his mother, who abandoned him and his father when Samuel was eleven years old, is the Packer Attacker, the woman who threw pebbles at the pro-second amendment, anti-first amendment possible presidential candidate walking through the park with his entourage—and many journalists with cameras rolling.When Samuel’s publisher tells him he has to fulfill the book contract he made years earlier or payback his advance (long since spent), Samuel pitches the idea that he write about his mother, the Packer Attacker, the woman who attacked Wyoming Governor Sheldon Packer.
The first major trauma in Sam’s life has already been signalled in the opening of the book but now it’s acted out in full: his mother, having clearly planned her escape in advance, walks away from the family home, never to return.
Not one to bow down to authority, Laura will find a way of combatting her professor’s annoying accusation, that's for sure.Sam is very much the lead character here and it’s through him we continue to meet the rest of the cast, even as we start to realise what a mess his life really is.
And I loved it.The best I can compare it to is  The Goldfinch, which is a book that holds a special place in my heart for a variety of reasons.
But something I can't express is the feelings these two books gave me while reading them and left me with after the last pages were turned.
They both have this special quality to them—in the writing, characters, themes, and execution—that, in my eyes, puts them above other literary fiction novels I normally read.
I don't know if everyone will find this book as funny as I did.
The story veers between 2011 when Sam agrees to write a book concerning his mother, who has achieved celebrity status for throwing stones at an ultra conservative presidential candidate, and the stories of both her and his youth.
I'm not sure who was my favorite, Laura or Guy. In one sense, both are peripheral characters, but in another, Hill saves some of his most biting sarcasm for these two.
In particular, I struggled with the sections written about Pwnage, Sam’s online gaming friend.
It is by turns funny, moving, philosophical and biting.
The style changed from time to time which was interesting and showed the skill of the author.I heard some commentary about this book saying that it is a bit dark and cynical which can make it a tough read if you are looking for something light and uplifting.
With this book, it was like the author shoved all 10 chores into the 4 hours, so they were either only partially done or done sloppily.
It seems like it would be hard to say that a book is both well written but lacks a strong, concise, and complete plot .
Nathan Hill’s whirling debut novel, “The Nix,” blasts off with an assault on Gov. Sheldon Packer, a fire-breathing, anti-immigrant presidential candidate who may remind you of a certain reality-TV star with size anxiety.
.To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post:https://www.washingtonpost.com/entert...See the Totally Hip Video Book Revew here:https://www.washingtonpost.com/video/...To watch my interview with Nathan Hill at The Washington Post, click here:https://www.facebook.com/poststyle/vi...
A lengthy novel weighted with important themes (bad parents, betrayal, and self-deception) written by a first time novelist whose previous contributions were short stories in “literary journals” (which reeks of the insufferable and pretentious) and filled with quirky affectations (a character who literally can’t stop himself from crying), silly names (Guy Periwinkle), a protagonist who is a struggling writer (pure navel gazing) and a self-consciously complicated structure of interlocking plotlines?
If there’s one thing the ENMB&SC doesn’t like, it’s when a member doesn’t even try to read the month’s selection.
We also learn the story of Faye's family, and see the forces that shaped her life.To sum up: this book is about a troubled mother-son relationship, mixed with political and social commentary.
If you like Big Bold Debut Novels, you may like this.*Sidenote: My big complaint about this book is the negative portrayals of female characters.
I'm putting this comment in a sidenote because I was reading this book during a heated presidential election, when sexist comments and stories were daily in the news and circulating on social media.
The childhood that shaped her; the hopes and dreams she once had; the things that occur in life which dash those dreams; and a love lost, or at least the chance of one.
At the opening of the book there’s a story told of some blind men who were each shown a piece of an elephant.
Full truth: I loved the first 4 pages, or so, of that.-	The end of the book felt rushed.
In part, it reminded me of books like I Know This Much Is True and The Goldfinch (not the same story by any means, but emotionally similar).
Abandoned around page 240.
I think this book will receive rave reviews - it already has from many readers with great taste, including Cynthia!
It reads like a cross between Franzen and The Art of Fielding , a book that I found so pleasantly inoffensive and forgettable that I had to Google its title last week.
If you enjoy contemporary fiction that attempts to Say Something About America in the most sweeping, arch, I-got-my-MFA-and-live-in-Brooklyn way, then I think this book will work for you.
To be fair, it probably would have worked for me if I had been in the right mood.
There were whole chapters of this doorstopper that felt like unnecessary padding.The central story - about a bored college teacher who is commissioned to write a book about the mother he hasn't seen for years - is diluted by hundreds of tangents that wander off in all directions, spending far too much time on inconsequential anecdotes and subplots from Samuel's childhood, as well as side stories about minor characters.
The great writing didn't disguise the pointlessness of certain sections and it was very tempting to skim read them (as I found out later, that would have probably had no effect on my reading experience).Not bad for a debut, though.
I think there was just too much going on, in addition to a number of odd plot devices and stunts that were distracting (like the "Choose Your Own Adventure" chapters and "The Nix" character, a Norwegian house spirit that borrows more than a little bit from Kreacher, the house elf in "Harry Potter").I still really liked it.
You may disagree, of course, but at least you'll have to explain yourself beyond I Was Excited to Read It Before Everybody Else.OK then.Some books want to tell us How Things Are Now, to make their canvas the whole of the world we live in and capture the moment we're all presently sharing.
This kind of 'insight' merely flatters the reader; no one who reads a book like The Nix finds their soul nourished by the shopping opportunities between Gates 30 and 40.
). O que inicialmente surtiu um forte efeito de choque, cedo deu lugar ao alívio...e...anos mais tarde, tudo se rearranjou!...Só lendo o livro entenderão porque vos conto este episódio da vida real, pois opto deliberadamente por não explorar esta via para evitar a introdução de spoilers!...Nix é um calhamaço, e é possível encontrar-lhe muita, muita coisa...mas a mim, a parte que mais me tocou tem a ver com as metamorfoses da vida:Somos todos diferentes e cada qual com um percurso a trilhar.
a fusillade of Far Out, man! A superb novel. Finally, a book that lives up to the pre-pub hype. Review to follow.I loved this book!
Last but not least, I loved how it was so unpredictable and entertaining which I find necessary qualities in a book this size.
In many ways, this book reminds me of "City on Fire" by Risk Hallberg, not just because of its size and publicity, but also because it is constructed in a very similar way even though it deals with a very different story.
Nevertheless, I find "The Nix" to be a MUCH better novel that is so rich in quality and entertaining that you simply must read it.
At least two characters were there simply to provide satire on modern phenomenon and were superfluous to the plot – Pwnage whose online persona has utterly dwarfed his real world self (there were some great insights here on the shifting boundaries between virtual and real life selves but it was clumsy to give so many pages to a character who had no other purpose in the novel save provide these insights) and Laura Pottsdam, a feckless self-righteous student who exploits the PC educational system to shift her failings onto the shoulders of her teacher.
One of the best books I read this year.
Nathan Hill has his finger on the pulse of the times in the same way Tom Wolfe used to.
This book satirizes consumer culture, computer gaming, politics, and other things, but it also informs and philosophizes about them.
It's also a novel that deals in a heartfelt way with the mechanics of human relationships.
How the diminishment of ego, the recognition that we are merely supporting characters in other people's stories, makes us more lovable to others.
I've said a lot without giving away any of the plot.
The story pogos everywhere, spanning roughly six decades and two continents, but all plot threads ultimately lead to 2010 and Samuel Andresen-Anderson (an English prof at a low tier college outside Chicago, an aspiring author with only a  Choose Your Own Adventure-esque short story to his writing credit, and a Level umpty-thousand elf on Elfscape, a MMORPG he devotes most of his non-working waking hours to); and his mom, Faye Andresen-Anderson (a mousy, Iowa raised former U of Chicago student and Vietnam War protestor, who abandoned her son and husband in the late '80s, presumably under the influence of The Nix, a Norwegian ghosty-wraith).
Despite Nathan Hill's frequent flights of fancy, I liked  The Nix quite a bit more than  City on Fire (which I gave 4 stars).
It’s a hefty, “white man’s feelings” novel about Samuel, a sad sack thirtysomething college professor who’s enlisted to write a book about Faye, the mother he hadn’t seen in more than two decades until she’s arrested for throwing rocks at a conservative presidential candidate.
There were long, detailed backgrounds of many relatively minor characters ranging from Samuel’s MMORPG buddy to the student who’s got it in for him to the childhood friend with a dark (view spoiler)[and fairly clichéd (hide spoiler)] secret that Samuel will one day exploit.
