https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/844573.God_and_Man_at_Yale
Buckley's main concerns are that under the guise of "academic freedom" many faculty at Yale in the early 1950s were pushing ideas which were consistent with totalitarianism--against which the United States was at war then, against Korea, as it had been for half the preceding decade against Germany and Italy--and antithetical to the old American values of individualism and Judeo-Christianity.
Buckley's reasoning is that democracy and the ideas beind Judeo-Christianity have proven to be the best possible institutional foundations, and that to teach Communism and collectivism, both of which had proven to be terrible in various manifestations through history, was not to pursue truth under academic freedom but to encourage error through carelessness.Buckley's argument is extremely compelling and, bluntly, he is right.
Speaking of bias: the hoity-toity Mr B was a white supremacist in the 50s and 60s. What a guy !
I read a lot of Buckley back in the day, but had never read this one, the book that put him on the map. Reading it now, I can certainly see why it put him on the map. Good stuff.
Reading this book is primarily for historical value.
Buckley, Jr.'s first book that he wrote while a student at Yale (published after graduation).
Following graduation, Buckley would go on to found The National Review magazine, which would be the standard bearer for the American conservative movement until the late 80's, when Rush Limbaugh becomes the standard bearer.
The themes that Buckley brings to Yale in this book include:Highest goods:1.
Christianity as the surest ground for ethics.2.
Capitalism over socialism.Criticisms of Yale:1.
Homogeneity in the ideology of the faculty (anti-Christian secularism or naturalism, socialism).2.
Buckley was writing in ca.
Exactly how hostile to "religious thought" are modern "scholars"?This book revolves around Yale in the 1950s and 70s (it has been revised since 1951) but the implications and evidence present are definitely applicable to the situation as it exists in most institutions of higher learning today.
Look at the situation in our "institutions of higher learning" today when a class can be taught by an undergraduate while a tenured professor leads protests against conservative speakers and publishes books and papers declaring things like "9-11 was an inside job and there were no planes involved".
This is a reaction to the belief that Yale had, at the publishing of this book following WFB's tenure as a student there, had moved away from their core values of individualism and christianity, toward a collectivist and atheist agenda.
The first two chapters of this book run near irrelevance these days because they rely on naming professors he finds particularly offensive and quoting heavily from texts used in their classes - but he's honest about the subjectivity of his exprience and motions towards the idea that of course people have the privilege to disagree with him if they're doing so honestly and addressing his concerns, as he is doing for them.Overall, I think Buckley's ideas are bad ones.
This book is a shining example of that effectiveness.Even as a young man, when he wrote this book, Buckley showed a superb command of the language and its intricacies, and his simple premise -- that academia, which is supposed to embrace free thought, speech and expression but in fact is skewed toward a particular world view -- is more true today than it was when Buckley wrote these words.
To the true free-thinker, "God and Man at Yale" should serve as a warning.However, as is so often the case in today's political discourse, many critics do not review the work on its merits but rather the perceived personal qualities of the author.
It's rather sad to see just how much of an arrogant tosser Buckley was even as a young man, one more suited to the reactionary world of Metternich than the post-war 1940s. Reading Buckley's early work, it's easy to understand the anti-communist witch hunts of the 50s. The motto of the so-called New Right? Don't engage intellectually, simply ban, fire, and excoriate anything that doesn't conform to your tiddy WASP world view. (and full disclosure: I tend towards conservative politics myself, but still found Buckley's writing distasteful)
A very good analysis of academic freedom and the Communist threat to higher education. I am not one to disparage a work of such a great man. However, I find the book is a product of its times, people, and events of a particular place, and this itself is a weakness.
William Buckley is a renowned political conservatist, and apparently this book kicked off his life's work.
I think it is important to read this book in the context of the times in which he wrote.
Written not long after the Great Depression, I think it is safe to say that America was swept away with Roosevelt concepts of bigger government, etc.
Buckley weaves these huge topics almost accidently into his bigger point that professors should not be completely insulated under the umbrella of academic freedom.
It seems a little longer because of Buckley's writing style, but nevertheless a very interesting read.
The book is well-reasoned but dry as an old dishcloth. Buckley's conservativsm was the genteel philosphy carved from very basic axioms. Not the most interesting book but it has held out well in the last 50 years for its disdain of the muscular fascist conservative cousin now masquerading as genuine politics today.
Difficult, dry, and dated in most respects. Buckley examines the institution and influence of Yale in the late 40s. Some of the issues, such as academic freedom, free speech on campus, protests, and attitudes toward politics and religion are particularly relevant today.
GAHHHH that was dull. DNF at 50%. The book was mostly just excerpts from various economics textbooks. WFB has a reputation for being a sparkling wit, a firebrand, and an iconoclast, but this was a snoozer. Is there a better intro to WFB?
We certainly are in a bizarre academic world when ideas like Intelligent Design are blackballed from the very public schools that claim to espouse "academic freedom." I especially enjoyed Buckley's refutation of the notion Yale (and thus all, especially private, educational enterprises) must present all ideas in an unbiased way to the students and thus allow the students to weigh and decide for themselves what is true (or worthwhile or pragmatic or whatever) - as if the classroom is suppose to be an intellectual buffet.
Buckley's analysis of the culture, politics, and ideology of Yale in the late 40's/early 50's was spot on, which of course is why it struck such a nerve and won him so many enemies, as well as friends.
His analysis of the situation is flawless, particularly given the benefit of hindsight, and he was not only right about Yale, but (as he suggests might be the case but admits he lacks the ability to judge) the whole academic elite.
Buckley's exposure of it, I think, is the biggest service this book provides.
But of course, since it was not done, at Yale or anywhere else, its hard to judge the outcome of such a move.

The second-edition introduction to this book is skillfully written.
A journalist once remarked that this title was the only one by Buckley that would stand the test of time.
I have to wonder how many readers today would be drawn to this book by any impulse other than a loathing of Keynes or a hatred of atheism.
Yet non-conservative readers will also be drawn to this artifact that reveals a bygone era when conservatives could cast doubt on the changing intellectual climate without sacrificing their own standing as intellectuals.
Strictly of historical interest, except the chapter on academic freedom, which is suitably provocative.
I wonder who is writing the updated version of this based on the issues of academic freedom under attack today.
The blueprint for the modern conservative movement. Brilliant, and quite simply one of my favorite all time books!
42-43).My high school history teacher liked to teach this very point -- that the national debt, in the form of treasury bonds sold to US citizens, is not a problem because "we owe it to ourselves.":"[T]he collectivist shrugs off as naïve any concern about financial burdens imposed on future generations.
"And so I repeat: unless something is done now, or soon, by collective or individual alumni action, nothing in all probability will be done in the future about Yale’s predominant biases, because these will be in full accord with the wishes of the next generation of alumni." (pp.
Critics of his book back in the 50s accused Buckley of being a fascist.
I do not see anything fascist about a private institution promulgating certain agreed upon moral and educational values.
(This thought seems to stim from some kind of imposition of the state's democratic ethos and cultural power upon private institutions.
Whether this is the case or whether the private university ought to hold such a position is another line of inquiry.) I can understand the problems Buckley's proposal would have for the public university.
I wish that our private universities would follow Buckley's advice.
Some Yale professors were teaching their students what to think in terms of: religion (atheistic), economics (socialistic), and politics (government control); rather than teaching them how to think.A good prof will present both sides of an issue, cloak his own feelings, and allow the students to discern the best conclusion for themselves.
This is academic freedom.A bad prof presents only those facts and ideas that support his own view and belittles those who disagree.
His first book points out how Yale failed its undergraduates Specifically it was in their religious teaching.
He felt that as since they claimed religious affiliation as a university they ought to at least support the belief in God. Instead they went out of their way to teach that Government was the answer to everything and their focus included collectivism, atheism and agnosticism.
This was accomplished by the choice of classes and instructors and he names names.
The direction away from God was encouraged through the choice of instructors and textbooks, and he does not hesitate to name names to prove his point.
Not what I had expected. Though his arguments apply to many universities, I was surprised by how Yale-specific his writing was. (In fairness, the title suggests that it would be Yale-specific). Reading about lecturers at Yale is not exacting exhilarating. That said, it took courage for Buckley to name them and his argument against so-called "academic freedom" is convincing. Knowing where Yale stands now, it's clear that the alumni unfortunately did not listen to Buckley's critique.
I mean the book was fine. The writing is top notch as one would expect by Buckley. I can see why it would be popular when it was first written. But in the current climate it is simply less impressive.
What an entitled prick. I mean, we know this, but still. Any millennial of today who is told by any authority figure that they suffer from some expectation that the world should be handed to them on a platter should point that authority figure to the early writings of Buckley. Good lord.
The whole book is written on the assumption that Yale alumni at the time saw Christianity as important and worthwhile and worthy of attention at Yale (or universities in general). Doesn't hold a lot of relevance for the present day when most people don't hold that view.
*Rating should be taken as a reflection of my opinion on the quality of writing style and argumentation, rather than an endorsement of any tenets of the argument itself.*
Being persistent to the values and taking into consideration that freedom of choice is something unique, sooner or later you will realize that thinking is moving, not standing.
