https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3343410-the-world-of-sex
Ha!! Very entertaining quickie. Miller writes about the bush and the slit that lurks beneath. I am not sure "the world of sex" is an appropriate title because this , in totality, is about the search for truth and meaning, and finding one's own way in life and living with some semblance of integrity without being destroyed by the supposed advances of society.
"Lumea sexului" (128 pagini) este mai degrabă un eseu asupra decadenței umane iar titlul reiese din filosofia personală a autorului conform căreia sexul ar reprezenta adevărata evadare din cenzura societății și atingerea libertății personale individuale.El își bazează această afirmație pe faptul că în vise, oamenii nu se lovesc de aceleași obstacole ca în viața reală și își pot îndeplini dorințele ascunse, refulate, chiar și pe cele de natură incestuoasă.
Sex kao pogon, ali ne i poriv; kao gorivo, ali ne opterećenje. Žene kao božice, muškarci kao bogovi... MIller je sveo priču o seksualnosti na jedan super liberalni nivo, što podržavam, volim i obožavam. A i mislim da svi oni koji misle da su jeb..či, ako pročitaju ovo, poklope se ušima i ništa im nije jasno. Ima odličnih citata, al to ću vaditi jedan drugi dan. Piše savršeno jasno, a misli su mu precizne kao infarkt!
World of Sex. Long ago when I was a still a participant in our organization, there was this Fat and Scary Alumni Facilitator who gave us a lecture about Psychoanalysis.
“You're wrong.” He said “I wasn't asking where we came from.
Then he stopped talking for a brief moment and asked “You wanna know why guys?” Obviously.
And a suppressed or repressed energy can mean less life –lesser being.
Love and Sex. Two of the most interesting matters here in this world.
Sex does not only give birth to babies –it also gives AIDS.
A desire suppressed or repressed can mean a lot of trouble.
Exquisite. Henry's writing is almost orgasmic. Love to read about the possibility of passionate moments, if we only set ourselves free.
"To be in love, to be utterly alone."That was a quick good read.I am not sure "the world of sex" is an appropriate title because this , in totality, is about the search for truth and meaning, and finding one's own way in life."Like every man, I am my own worst enemy.
He will treat an exceptional woman like a whore and fall madly in love with a nitwit ...
The American woman, consequently, is frequently a love starved creature, clamouring for the moon.
One can fuck not only with heart and soul, as we say, but as a new being.
It is not on my behalf to say something against Miller.
Not at this point in my life.
However much I can still find flaws in his writing, the overall feeling that I get from every one of his books is humanity, a lively smell of mistaken-ship, something I can cling to and identify with.
He is everything but a perfect individual, and that is the point of his writing, the way I see it, to expose flaws, to bathe in imperfections and to show readers how life can be lived while hopping from mistake to mistake.
Read this through twice. Tough to wade through but starting to love this style of writing, maybe because I started with Breakfast at Tiffany's and just have to get used to the turn of phrase? Either way, some real fucking gems of wisdom in this stream of consciousness, sometimes I just stopped and reread passages over and over and then took photos of them. I'd love to make some into posters and read every day. Now I'm just being a sap. Gotta read more classics...

Carte a justificării alegerilor scriitoricești precedente, Henry Miller amestecă printre argumente si episoade fundamentale pentru formarea percepției si a convingerilor sale nu numai asupra sexului, dar si a vieții in sine.
Spune, intr-adevăr, niște lucruri interesante, dar nu nemaiauzite.
Sănătatea psihică nu face casa buna cu compromisul si artificialitatea.
Acum mâncam, dormim, muncim ca niște automate.
Țara adormiților - toți ne învârtim ca niște sfârleze.Ca sa trăiască, cineva nu trebuie doar sa fie treaz, ci si trezit.
Nimeni in toate mințile n-ar putea face lucrurile nebunești care ni se cer in fiecare moment al zilei.
Suntem cu toții victime, fie ca suntem deasupra, la fund ori la mijloc.
A brief look inside the writer's mind, technique, style, philosophy - the method to his madness.
As ever when we read Henry Miller, he gives us nothing short of brutal honesty - about himself and the existential world.
Though there are countless gems to be mined in Miller's work, here are a few I culled from this short treatise:"Like every man, I am my own worst enemy.
What have we achieved in mowing down mountain ranges, harnessing the energy of mighty rivers, or moving whole populations about like chess pieces, if we ourselves remain the same restless, miserable, frustrated creatures we were before?
Henry Miller on his best, presenting us his opinion on sex and extracts from his rich sexual life. What's interesting, he never mentioned his second wife June or Anais Nin in this book, just his first wife (very explicitly) who remained without name. Of course Henry Miller couldn't forget to mention his Parisian years, the atmosphere of brothels and sexual freedom which is not quite present in the USA. It was a good quick read for Henry Miller fans, but too short for such topic as sex, I suppose.
Of course I expected such masculine lucidity in regard of life from Henry Miller. I do not agree of all he says, but I'm glad I read it, even if much of it is predictable from his novels. He talks of freedom, freedom from machinery and constraints, freedom from so called morality, freedom to feel and love.
It'd be immoral to rate this book, but I'm sure I will read it again :)
A very well needed refreshment after Tropic of Cancer and Black Spring.

In a sense we are all killers. Our whole way of life is rooted in mutual slaughter. Never has there been a world so avid for security, and never has life been more insecure.
Left hanging, waiting for more. Want the followup (that never came).
La autenticidad de éste hombre sigue siendo inspiradora a pesar de cuanta diferencia de pensamiento puedas tener con el.
Trata-se de um ensaio em tom autobiográfico com pegada fortemente panfletária, não exatamente delicioso de ser lido, mas intrigante, com certeza intrigante.Lançado no Brasil inicialmente em 1975, pela Editora Pallas, a presente edição manteve prefácio do crítico e ensaísta Otto Maria Carpeaux, em que discorre sobre a questão se pornografia é um critério artístico ou de polícia.
Fosse Carpeaux ainda vivo, pediríamos que escrevesse um prefácio também a Negrinha, de Monteiro Lobato, para ver se, com seu discernimento e sagacidade, ele nos ajudaria a enterrar de vez a polêmica em torno do preconceito racial na literatura do século passado.Dito isso, acho que a melhor maneira de demonstrar o interesse sobre O Mundo do Sexo é transcrever alguns trechos do ensaio.
wow!!!!

Não gostei.
Porventura o autor escolhe um estilo provocador, para causar efeito.
Aceito isso, mas se a ele não importar causar boa ou má impressão, então conseguiu o que queria.
Mas também pode ser o facto d este livro ser uma edição d antologia, sem coerência entre os textos escolhidos para dela fazerem parte.
Mas não me parece que seja só isso.
E quem ficar chocado é porque não pertence à sua elite.
Trata-se de livro de pensamentos, mas não me parece que sejam especialmente elevados ou condutores da nossa vida.
Секс и смрт, фриволност и религија, живот и залазак - опозиције су овог озбиљног филозофског дела прожетог нимало ласцивним, еротским епизодама из живота наратора. Ова ме је књига из неког разлога подсетила на Занотову Венерину Делту, којој се у једном моменту морам вратити, јер књиге расту заједно са нама. Омиљени цитат: Рај прошлости је Утопија будућности.
A very interesting read. There were some profound sentences I found in the pages, about identity, society, sex.Sadly it was colored by misogyny due to the time in which it was written. But often literature provides a phenomenal reflection on the climate of an era. Overall I liked it! Definitely give it a go, just try not to cringe at Miller's use of 'cunt' when referring to female genitalia.
Me esperaba un poco mas de lo que fui. Me costo avanzar porque el ingles se me hizo mas dificil de lo que pense y tambien me paso que se me hizo tedioso. Lo que valoro de el es que me hizo querer leer libros del mismo autor asi que probablemente eso es lo que haga.
Clearly, i didn't know much enough about the context in which this book is written, and sadly, I didn't really understood all the humor and inside information. I'll reread it later on, in twenty years or so.
Sorry Henry!
Il sesso, ovvero l'identità.
somewhat offensive / but overall an excellent quick read considering the era it was written
