https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/706525.The_Myth_of_Mental_Illness
This, for sure , will ever be a must-read. I know some of the strong arguments [points] of doctor Szasz: 1-Diagnosis is a tool used by psychiatrists to control and stigmatize people. 2-Hysteria and misbehavior and attention deficit disorder...are not diseases; thyphoid fever is,....spring fever is not. 3-Labeling is a stigmatization; treating with drugs is poisoning.4-Mental disease is a metaphor,...a fable, a mythology.The DSM* is a joke. 5-"Psychiatrists are more and more away from human tou
I know some of the strong arguments [points] of doctor Szasz: 1-Diagnosis is a tool used by psychiatrists to control and stigmatize people.
3-Labeling is a stigmatization; treating with drugs is poisoning.4-Mental disease is a metaphor,...a fable, a mythology.The DSM* is a joke.
6-When Szasz went to medical school, 60 years ago, there were 6 or 7 mental diseases; now they're more than 300.7-"No behavior (or misbehavior) is a disease or can be a disease".He's got a point, obviously.
More than one.---*The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) published by the American Psychiatric Association
If you think this book is dangerous then I'm not sure you understood it.
The author says that those who break these norms, the "mentally ill," do so for certain reasons, usually because it benefits them to do so.
By way of illustration, the author refers to diagnosed cases of "mental illness" that can be reduced to "a man worried about his job and life-goals [who:] seeks medical attention for hyperacidity and insomnia." (p.
The author, an M.D., says in his conclusion: "It is customary to define psychiatry as a medical specialty concerned with the study, diagnosis, and treatment of mental illnesses.
The Myth of Mental Illness: Foundations of a Theory of Personal Conduct.
Roy Porter discusses Szasz in the opening pages of his "Madness: A Brief History". Amazon has NO hardcover in stock. Zero. Zip. For my part ? "He jests at scars that never felt a wound." @ Szasz : Here is my curse on you, Thomas: May you suffer ten minutes of acute clinical depression. Ten minutes in that "over-heated room", that "bell-jar", that "bed of nails" which we sufferers know when the nerve synapses in the basal ganglia are leeched of neurotransmitters through a too-rapid re-uptake of same....10 minutes....Then we'll talk.
We didn't have these answers about what "mental illness" is and how to treat it in 1960 when Dr. Szasz was first published; we still don't have these answers now; but we need to look for them in a more careful and unbiased way.Still crucial questions to ask...not many willing to ask them...many financial interests desperate for them not to be asked.
Incredibly eye opening book. Shows how the majority of "mental illnesses", except those of clear neurological basis, are not illnesses at all. Mental illness is a metaphor. This isn't to say that what we normally refer to as "mental illness" doesn't exist, clearly these many psychological experiences do exist...but they are not genuine illnesses and when they are assumed to be this can lead to profound misunderstanding.
Rather, what we see as mental illness are the results of rule-breaking behavior by "mentally ill" people, an attempt to game their social interactions to receive the socially beneficial role of a "sick person" as accorded by Judeo-Christian morality and modern standards of care.While there is some benefit to challenging the hegemony of mental illness (a recent paper says "Almost half of college-aged individuals had a psychiatric disorder in the past year."), Szasz's argument fails on two major grounds.The first is modern understanding that cognitive events are linked to neurological events, or in other words, that mental illness are in some way brain disorders.
I find this book extremely troubling and somewhat irresponsible.
Time is precious, so please spend it making memories with family and friends rather than reading tripe from a misinformed, hippy "psychiatrist." This particular book only furthered my desire to research and uncover the truth...which is that mental illness continues to be as real as cancer and is not a myth.
Furthermore, if you are a clinician that believes that mental illness is like the "Easter Bunny"(and is not real) than in my honest opinion you need to leave this profession.
There are countless clients that would feel completely invalidated that you opine that their mental illness is not real.
I read this in college for "Human Health and Behavior" class. The seminar that ensued was lively! The author makes some valid points, but they are enshrined in an extreme and fundamentalist tone, which was alienating and made it difficult to fully endorse his ideas. In addition, he is not a very skilled writer, so it takes a lot of effort to uncover his points. I hope to re-read this soon and revise this review, but for now I can only give the book 2 stars.

That’s the argument of Thomas Szasz, professor emeritus of psychiatry at the State University of New York in Syracuse.
You may be denied a job, separated from your family, forbidden to own a gun, denied parole, divorced, or be subjected to involuntary brain surgery or electroconvulsive shock, all “for your own good” and “for the safety of others.” That’s what was wrong with the psychiatric, medical definition of “mental illness” fifty years ago, and is still wrong today.
Fifty years after first publication, the idea that mental illness is a myth is still highly controversial, in part, I submit, because of Szasz’s polemical and hyperbolic rhetoric.
He's not against psychiatry in the sense of having therapy between two consenting adults, but the paradigm of viewing the clients as having a disease must be dropped.
The "mentally ill" are simply people who have personal, social, and ethical problems.
Borrowing Piaget's concept of games, he explains social living in terms of a collection of games, some of which include "mental illness", both from the perspective of the patient and the psychiatrist.
At its core, the fact that social action is embedded into games isn't very revolutionary by itself, but the depth that Szasz goes into is fascinating.A classic in psychiatry and a must-read for anyone interested in the field.
It had good ideas, but I feel none were developed to the degree needed
In essence, what Szasz thinks about the tasks of psychiatry is not the 'treatment of mental illnesses' but rather being concerned about people's 'personal, social and ethical problems in living.' He thinks that the so-called 'mental illnesses' are really learned disabilities that tries to communicate in a non-verbal way about the patient's inability to conform to the rules of the games he operates in, much different from biological disorders which show themselves as physical illnesses.
“There is no blood or other biological test to ascertain the presence or absence of a mental illness, as there is for most bodily diseases.
If such a test were developed…then the condition would cease to be a mental illness and would be classified, instead, as a symptom of a bodily disease.” —Dr. Thomas Szasz, Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, New York University Medical School, SyracuseAlso, I thought this would be relevant.
The crisis in mental health should be managed not as a crisis of individual conditions, but as a crisis of social obstacles which hinders individual rights.
Szas seems to be trapped in asserting and repeating his view that medical illness doesn't exist and whereas he does point out compelling facts such as the arbitrary nature of disease selection and the tenable arguments of Freud to make his case he fails to address the issue of people who have genuine distress from mental illnesses and actually gives no real solutions to the negative aspects of psychiatry.There needs to be a more balanced point of view.
Ironically enough this book has helped me to realise the depth pf the complex interplay between mental and physical realms by pointing out that there is no real for or against in psychiatry just a lot of different opinions.
This is essentially two different books. The first half is dedicated to an indictment to the medical model of psychiatry. He believes that by medicalizing psychiatry, it has removed the moral component of behavior. The second half, he develops a theory of hysteria that assumes that the symptoms that hysterics exhibit are a form of non-verbal communication and can be analyzed as a form of communication like dreams. That is the interesting part of the book.
I'm reading a chapter from 1960 edition, it bothered me so much as Szasz put forward those "self-evident" justifications. He made his point in regarding mental illness as "problems in living". But I doubted the practicability of an argument over the concept itself and the implication of his idea to clinical settings at all.
Heavy going and a challenging read but definitely worth it. Very interesting though naturally somewhat dated in its propositions. It was originally published in 1961 so things have of course moved on since then! He was one of the first to start questioning the status quo and it is therefore still an important text.
'Strictly speaking, disease or illness can affect only the body; hence, there can be no mental illness.' 'Personal conduct is always rule-following, strategic, and meaningful.' 'There is no medical, moral or legal justification for involuntary psychiatric interventions. They are crimes against humanity.' Discuss.
Szasz offers many interesting points making for an interesting read at times, however, he falls extremely short in covering all the complex cases of 'problems in living' that may be encountered (and their potential reasons!). Still, I think he offers an interesting new approach that may perhaps hold some of the answers we are looking for.
Game-changer for psychology---another classic book for the field.
Bane of emotional cop-outs, ammunition for stoics. In any case, he's right.
Szasz presents an interesting idea, the extension of which I embrace - that mental illness is not merely a biological phenomenon.
Szasz has influenced many thinkers as a result of this piece. A must read for critical thinkers in the realms of social constructionism.
This book had just a few items that weren't completely out of date. Interesting book if you're looking for past work regarding mental health and therapy.
Excellent and well-written book in which the notion of mental illness is rationally debunked. There is just behaviour, that is all. The book also offers some stunning insights into our minds.
A classic, must read.
Went in highly skeptical and came out questioning some of my beliefs and being reaffirmed in others. Still overall disagree with the author but he's a good writer and a smart dude.
