https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/964504.The_Moon_Maid
Finally they organized themselves into a secret society called The Thinkers, but known more accurately to the rest of Va-nah as those who thought that they thought.
It is a long story, for it covers a great period of time, but the result was that, slowly at first, and later rapidly, The Thinkers, who did more talking than thinking, filled the people with dissatisfaction, until at last they arose and took over the government and commerce of the entire world.
The arts and sciences languished and died with commerce and government, and Va-nah fell back into barbarism.
Not sure this lived up to it's blurb. I zoned out on the audiobook, which you can start at the one hour mark--after you've learned the names of the Hero and Antagonist. After this non-spoilery (view spoiler)[Antagonist sabotages ship, it ends up on Moon, real shocker, there. (hide spoiler)] Now continue at about the fifty-eighth minute mark.This standard ERB class adventure takes a strange turn in the last two hours. Some interesting passages about the Forever Now, and some weird intergeneration
Not sure this lived up to it's blurb.
I zoned out on the audiobook, which you can start at the one hour mark--after you've learned the names of the Hero and Antagonist.
After this non-spoilery (view spoiler)[Antagonist sabotages ship, it ends up on Moon, real shocker, there.
(hide spoiler)] Now continue at about the fifty-eighth minute mark.This standard ERB class adventure takes a strange turn in the last two hours.
Some interesting passages about the Forever Now, and some weird intergenerational struggle.
Recommend the print over the audio.Not as good as: Barsoom, Venus, Pellucidar, Tarzan, or the Monster Men, maybe better than the Lad and the Lion.
Well, it's ERB, so you pretty much know what you're going to get in a novel of his.
That is, heroics, villains, and a hot love interest that needs both kissed and rescued often, and by a hero who knows how!
This one takes place inside the moon, in the future 21st Century.
Yes, inside the moon.
Perhaps, but I think it's best approached as a tale of rousing adventure set in another world.
The ending is a cliffhanger, setting up the sequel The Moon Men. I liked this one enough to eventually read that one as well.
In 1919, ERB wrote a novel titled Under the Red Flag.
ERB uses the format he has used before of the tale being related to another by another, in this case, a future relation of Julien.
We learn that 24 years after the events of The Moon Maid, Orthis leads the Kalkars on a planetary invasion of Earth.
Of course a resistance is born, it’s symbol a war torn American flag that has been passed from Julien to Julien since 1896.
It’s easy to see the roots of The Moon Men in its original guise of Under A Red Flag.
Very similar to THE PRINCESS OF MARS, although ERB's mild self-plagiarism doesn't particularly bother me in this case, in that I found THE MOON MAID to be something of an improvement.
At least THE MOON MAID tries to be more scientific in terms of space travel, but of course the science is all bogus and horribly out of date.
For me, though, it's the ridiculousness of it that gives the book much of its charm.
At any rate, it is a fun adventure story, and I would heartily recommend it to anyone who enjoys reading about exotic alien races getting punched in the face.
I don't have this particular volume, from Bison, but I have the earlier release and just love it. Sheer adventure. Excellent. And fun.
Great pulp SiFi. The creator of John Carter and Tarzan scores another hit with this book and it's 2 sequels. Very recommended
i am trying to read at least one book of Tarzan, Mars, Moon, Venus, Lost World, Earth's Core, just to read what made burroughs so successful...so far, all known is agreeing with received wisdom: same story, same first-person narrator, same damsel to love and be loved by (and rescue is how to meet-cute), variety of obstacles to overcome, monsters, villains, loyal natives, action adventure with no complex characters, no complex worlds, all of this very easy entertainment to read.
i think of what pleasures it would offer to the consumer, what guarantees of exotic worlds, lovely Girl, dastardly villains, monsters to be killed, escapes from cliffs each pulp serial issue...
I love Burroughs but this book was painful to get through. It was extremely drawn out and it had an ok story but was nothing compared to John carter of mars. I'm pretty sure this book is part of a trilogy, which doesn't make much sence to me. After how complex and drawn out the moon maid was, I can't even imagine what the other books would even be about, especially since the moon maid had such a definite ending. Never the less I probably will not be reading the others.
Quite good and enjoyable adventure. I do prefer the Mars series though. (This takes place in the same continuity, although it isn't really related.)A strangely complicated frame to the story, but perhaps that becomes more important in later volumes?
A very creative story for a classic. I am happy to see the talent that created Tarzan can write an excellent sci-fi flavor tale. I actually enjoyed it. =)
In this prequel to The Moon Men, we find Julian, the 5th of his name commanding a small space ship toward Mars.
As is typical of many Burroughs supernatural romances, Julian leads her to safety, fights battles along the way, is recaptured, escapes and gets the Princess back to her own kingdom just in time to witness an Orthis led attack featuring powerful weapons he adapted, and Na-hee-lah's city is destroyed.
She and julian manage to return to the now repaired space ship and return to Earth presumably to live happily ever after, but such is not the case.
Julian meets the moon maid, Na-hee-lah, and of course they fall in love and due to threats after the villain, Orthis" and the Kalkars take over, they escape back to earth.
The Kalkars follow them back to earth and invade.In the 2nd part, "The Moon Men", Julian is reincarnated in his descendant Julian the 9th.
He and his people struggle in around 2100 A.D. against Kalkar rule, the Kalkars being lead by the Or-tis ( a desendant of the original villain Orthis).
Undaunted, Mr. Burroughs changed the Russians to the Moon dwelling race of Kalkars and the book was retitled The Moon Men. This, however left him with the necessity of explaining who the Moon Men were.
Thus was The Moon Maid written.
The Moon Maid is a very different and darker book than your average Edgar Rice Burroughs tale, but one of my favorites.
Admittedly there are times when a Burroughs book gets an extra star or two just because it's a Burroughs book, but not here.
The Moon Maid as well as the whole Moon Trilogy gets a well deserved five stars!
Aside from having a maid on it, the Moon doesn't really seem like a very interesting place in this book. Yes, there are centaurs and guys trying to kill the hero and an uber-sexy moon maiden, but this all takes place against a backdrop of gray rocks.
This is one of the few Burroughs books that I have only read once before. The last time I read it was when it was first published in paperback by Ace back in the early sixties. I quite enjoyed reading it this time.
Read in the 70s. A good Burroughs sci-fi adventure.
A savagely abridged version of the full story was published in 1926.The fully restored Bison Books edition has, in addition, replaced words and sentences excised from the original magazine edition.It has a tenuous connection to Burroughs’ ‘Mars’ series since the tale begins when communication has been established between Earth and John Carter of Mars, or ‘Barsoom’ as the Martians call it.A ship, ‘The Barsoom’ is launched, captained by Julian 5th, but also on board is Julian’s rival, Orthis, a brilliant scientist but twisted by his jealousy of Julian’s superior position and skills.The prologue takes the form of an explanation from Julian 3rd, the hero’s grandfather, who somehow has access to the future memories of three of his descendants as he is to be reincarnated in their bodies.
possibly read in spring 1969
The titular character has yet to appear (similar to A Princess of Mars, in which she takes *forever* to show up.) (heavy sigh) Get to the characters, already!
2 Jan 2013.The Moon Maid finally showed up, but it would have been nice to get to her and her interactions with Julian the protagonist *much* sooner.
Overall the characters are sympathetic, and ERB inserts interesting commentary on patriotism and religion into the story.
After tracking down (the *correct*) Part III, the narrative makes much more sense.
Overall, the general philosophy of ERB's protagonists seems to be, "Shoot first, kill 'em all, it's no big deal.
The story is remarkably similar: Hero accidentally ends up on a barbarian world falls in with a hoard of cannibal warriors (here No-Vans - basically centaurs, instead of Tharns but similar situation) he meets and falls for a captured princess they escape, go back to the princess' people in the mid of civil war, he has to fight a rival intent on marrying her and claiming the throne...
Because of the difference in gravity he can jump impossible distances, Oh and the story framed in a similar way with our hero narrating his adventures to a third party.We also have a little of At the Earth's core in here - what with the civilization living underground beneath the moon's surface...
They just don't make covers like that any more...
That's not how they are described in the story.)Anyway, this is the story of a man named Julian and his journey to make first direct contact with the civilization on Mars, with which humanity has been communicating; except they don't make it, because one of the crew sabotages the ship, and they land on the moon.
Our moon is partially hollow, and a world lies within, full of vegetation, strange beasts, and human-like civilization -- primitive by our standards, but advanced enough to have politics.
These days any science fiction of Burroughs could easily fit the sub-genre Steam Punk.
I liked The Moon Maid partially because of its peripheral connection to the John Carter books.
In this world John Carter went to Mars decades before.
Our protagonist, Julian, encounters the same type of adventure on the moon as John Carter experienced on Mars.
I guess back when the Moon Maid was written (1922) inter-species relationships weren't such a big deal.
(LOL) These relationships were happening a lot in Science Fiction.
I know it bothers some people that every intelligent life form encountered in these books is humanoid, but heck, these books would be dirt dull without their beautiful alien princesses.
The overall plot is very similar to A Princess of Mars in that an Earth male travels to an alien planet, falls in love with a beautiful female native, and fights an oppressive government.
At least here Burroughs tries to make the journey a bit more scientific, using a space ship instead of teleportation.
There is a bit of political allegory in that the oppressive government is basically a fascist regime, but this is much more thoroughly explored in the sequel, The Moon Men. One thing that is different about this book from most other Burroughs' books is that the ending is not particularly happy.
Burroughs is most famous for his Tarzan books; and most loved among science fiction fans for his Mars books.
The Moon Maid I had not heard of before.It belongs with the Mars books in terms of explicitly sharing the same setting as the Mars books and in terms of aging well.
While the story begins and ends on Earth, he is writing about an Earth of the future, which sweeps most of the dated material under the rug.The Moon Maid in and of itself is an adventure-romp in a very similar vein as A Princess of Mars.
I like ERB's Moon stories ( they make up a trilogy ), although they are certainly not as well-known as his Tarzan or John Carter series.
In The Moon Maid, Julian is the commander of a spaceship that blasts off for Mars, or Barsoom, after contact is made with the famous Virginian John Carter on the Red Planet.
Unfortunately, the craft goes astray and the Earthmen make a landing, not on the moon, but inside it.
In the lunar interior, they discover weird creatures and an alien civilization, and, of course, the Moon Maid.
I found this book in an antique store and immediately wanted to read it. I like reading old science fiction, constantly amazed at the writers and their projections into the future. This book was published in 1926 and there is a definite difference in writing style compared to something written today. Still, I thoroughly enjoyed the story and recommend it. Who in that time period (or this one) wouldn't want to read about a trip to Mars (which is about to happen) and Moon men? This story takes place after John Carter arrived on Mars.
This printing was by Bottom of the Hill Publishing, and had many errors, making it hard to read. The story was OK, but not great. Having read several of the Martian Chronicles, with John Carter, I expected much better. This was the first of a trilogy, and I do not plan to read the next two. If you are just getting into Burroughs, skip this and read the Martian series.
3.5So Edgar Rice Burroughs, he basically has one plot, and how much you enjoy his works depends on how much you like that one plot, and how well you think it's executed in any particular novel. The Moon Maid has a slow start, but an intriguing one, and once it gets going it's a pretty good ride.
Well, when I was an early teen, I read almost all of the ERB books, the Moon series, Tarzan, Pelucidar, Venus, and more. They were great fun, taught me a lot, but I have moved on to more complex literature. I need more than these books now, to grow and learn. Not that I could ever exhaust the ERB books, but I simply need something different and, in my opinion, more.
