https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/796809.Tigers_In_The_Mud
This book filled a gap by giving an account of small unit actions (from squad up to company level).
Also, at the time of writing, he was still super pissed-off about the treatment of German soldiers after the war.
Finally, his disparagement of the American soldier for lack of aggressiveness in the closing pages seemed small-minded and unnecessary.
Why would you press your luck?)In final analysis, this is a good book to read if you are interested in armored action during WW2, especially on the Eastern front.
Otherwise, you can give it a skip.(Recommended first person accounts of combat: Company Commander: The Classic Infantry Memoir of World War II by Charles B.
Хер Ото Кариус се оказа приличен писател, но вероятно е бил много по-добър аптекар.
:)Като танкист и командващ офицер е бил изключителен.Заради ниското си тегло е отхвърлян два пъти от армията, за да бъде приет най на края в пехотата.
От там е доброволец за постъпване в танковите войски и заминава на обучение.През 1943 година започва да воюва на Източния фронт срещу настъпващите руснаци.
По голямата част от унищожените от неговия Тигър цели ( над 150 танка и оръдия) са постигнати там.
Zanimljiva tematika ali knjiga je nespretno napisana pa radnja često skače s jednog mjesta na drugo, ponekad je to naporno pratiti. Takva je priroda rata, konfuzna, posebno kada se povlačiš.I nije mi se svidjelo sprdanje autora s ratnim zločinima. U jednom trenutku uspoređuje ratne zločine s ubijanjem pjetla. Ubiti pjetla i 30 milijuna ljudi nije isto. Jedna zvjezdica manje zbog toga.
They spent more time towing broken tanks than you'd ever imagine.But there are several factors here that end up making it less than I hoped for.First up, I suspect the translation was done by someone less than ideal.
I can only imagine the lot of a German soldier post war, and thus I understand a bit why he's doing it, but it doesn't read well.The authour also, quite honestly, comes across as a cold, arrogant know-it-all.
Представете си малкото немско градче Хершвайлер-Петерсхайм (само си го представете, не е нужно да го произнасяте).
Посреща ви добродушен възрастен аптекар, всъщност най-възрастният аптекар в Германия.
Поне до 2015 година.
Името му е Ото Кариус и освен ако не сте запалени по военната история, вероятно няма и да разберете, че пред вас стои един от най-резултатните немски танкови асове от Втората световна война, записал на сметката си близо 200 унищожени танка на противника!Уви, такава среща вече не е възможна.
Възрастният ветеран умира в началото на 2015 година, но освен аптеката, именувана на легендарния танк, Ото Кариус оставя в наследство и своите мемоари.
There are certain faults with the Carius memoir (I read the 2003 1st Edition Stackpole Series).
Carius's memoir gives people insight into the fighting on the Eastern Front from the point of view of a lower ranking officer who wasn't socialized in the German officer core.
Moreover, the omission and bias that Carius's memoir has, actually turns out to be pretty valuable in discerning the German reaction to defeat in 1945.
This book is written by Otto Carius, one of the most decorated WWII German tank commanders.
And he seemed to be quite unhappy about the way WWII veterans were treated by Americans and perceived by the German public after the war.
Like many other Wehrmacht officers, he was under a delusion and even had very high "hopes for a joint struggle against the Russians" until the very last moment of the war.
His private conversation with Himmler after Himmler personally presented him the Oak Leaves to the Knight's Cross was very interesting too.
All in all, this personal accounts is worth reading and highly recommended.
I liked this book, particularly reading of Otto’s experiences on the Eastern Front.
It’s incredible to read about the day-to -day heroics of front line soldiers.
His experiences are nothing short of incredible but the final chapters of his book left a bad taste in my mouth.Funny he’d criticize America’s use of DDT (which I’d agree with) in the Vietnam War but say nothing of Aktion T4, Operation Bamberg and many, many other massacres of men, women and children, and oh yeah, the Holocaust.
dont usually read books like this but it was worth it.
Its all about reports, battle tactics, day by day fights, etc.Otto is someone who clearly takes great comfort from being in the army.
As long as the army structure is upheld he just gets on with it.
He is bitter with the portal of the soldiers after the war and that he has to hid his accomplishments and in denial of the crimes committed during the way.If you are reading to hear about concentration camps or history lesson this is not the book.
Like the title says, this is about his combat career.
Knygą vertinti gerai yra sunku. Dažniausia pateikiami “sausi” faktai, mažai detalių, tad itin sunku skaityti raporto stilistikos knygą. Autorius neįtikina - visur jį supa herojai, baimės nėra, karas ne toks ir baisus. Paskaičius kitus atsiminimus iš karo, šitie atrodo perdėti. Yra įdomių detalių, bet itin mažai ir tik pabaigoje. Vokietija piešiama kaip neteisingai suprasta, nukentėjusioji pusė, tuo tarpu sąjungininkai įvardinami kaip tikrieji agresoriai. Toks subjektyvumas neatskleidžia karo realybės. Knyga yra tarsi “garbės raštas” kovos draugams - “bebaimiams herojams”. Prastas redaktoriaus darbas, palikta daug klaidų.
decent first hand account of tank and infantry fighting in the Eastern Front, Group North in 1943-44.In the main body of the book, Carius seems to skip over many details which would have made this more interesting for me, but later I found some of what I was looking for in his After Action Reviews lumped together at the end. Overall a good read, not very complicated, a good WW2 diary.
Впечатли ме особено отношението на командирите - винаги на купола, рискувайки живота си за да спасят екипажа. Не мога да си представя наш командир на тази позиция. Несправедливо ми се струва по филмите тази особеност да се представя подигравателно като някакво високомерно перчене пред противника.
Memuaarina annab teos täitsa midagi: saab teada kus, kuidas, mis ja kellega juhtus. Aga peale selle jääb ikkagi igavaks, pole kirge, emotsioone, ei ilusid ega valusid. Ja need on ju ometi need, mida otsime raamatuist.
Interesting book about everyday life of tank crew of Pzkpfw IV “Tiger”. But there are a lot of mistakes made by publisher. People with basic/moderate knowledge of armour of second world war would notice this immediatle. Plus illegal use of photos is minus.
Fascinating view from the turret of a tigerWell worth reading if you like tanks, to read how a real tiger crew worked. Worth reading just to see the German view point.
Great readA must read for anyone who wants a perspective of a German tank commander. Has been rated as on o best
one word: excellent ! :D
Well writtenGood detail on both the Eastern and the end of the war in western Germany. It is a personal account and I found Me Carius's viewpoints interesting and informative.
If you're interested in armored warfare on the eastern front, read it. If not, give it a pass.
When "World War II" is uttered, Americans and Russians are brought to mind as the heroes. Yet, the Germans were also heroes -- they fought for what they believed in, and well. Otto Carius was one of those German heroes, a tank ace who fought for his country despite overwhelming odds.
Otto Carius verteld ook zeer expliciet en in detail over zijn gevechten in de Tijger tank.
Dit ontsnapte ook Hitler niet en maakte van Carius en dergelijken gebruik als propaganda materiaal.
Carius vermeld dit ook aangezien hij Hitler vaak heeft ontmoet voor medaille uitreikingen en propaganda stunten.
Ook dit maakt Otto Carius interessant aangezien maar weinigen van zijn rang of lager ooit de eer hebben gehad om van Hitler persoonlijk medailles te krijgen.
Het wordt voor Carius een strijd om te overleven.
Zijn leven na de oorlog wordt ook in detail weergegeven.
Based on the descriptions they slept little and worked insanely, but I guess that after a bunch of years the insanity had faded into a haze.Carius' meeting with Reichsführer SS was just about as curious as Rudel's chats with Hitler.
These show a very different view from the public image of these people, in this case Carius himself comments on that how strange it was to have such a casual chat with one of the most feared men in the Reich.His views of the end-war Americans just casually strolling around Germany in the Ruhr pocket was amusing.
Then again, compared to the brutal Eastern Front anything would've seemed like a kindergarten, I guess.

Otto Carius is one of the few Germans who served in Tiger tanks during WWII to write his memoirs, and, taken simply as a description of what it was like to serve on the Eastern Front in a Tiger unit, this is quite a good book and those interested in the Tiger and the war in the east will find it useful reading.
But Carius' blind spots about the war are grating.
Apparently the only atrocities Carius knew about was mistreatment of German heroes by the Americans - you know, the guys who had just liberated assorted concentration camps - and Himmler, by the way, was a great guy.
As personal accounts can be, it is very dependent on the writer's own experience of the war, thus becoming a collection of specific events, making hard to place in context if one has not already some background on the period. The author's way of describing makes it look like the war was a great fun adventure, a bit lighthearted in my opinion, but that comes with the person. Interesting was getting to understand the life of a panzer crew: the dangers, the logistics and tactics in the battlefield. Pity the later stages of the war were not that well described.
Tigers in the Mud is a great companion for someone who is not interested in the image of enormity of war. There are no painful or extremely detailed explanations of young men suffering which actually was the case during the war. Instead Commander Otto Carius explains strategies of tank combat during his service years 1940-1945 in the 21st Panzer Regiment and how he pulled off such fearless fights on the battlefields in the Eastern front. In total he took down incredible 150+ tanks plus as many antitank guns.I recommend in case you are interested in Nazi Germany and WW II.
Mõnus lugemine IIMS tankilahingutest Narva alla ja idarindel. Uskumatud seiklused ja 7 korda haavata saades ikkagi eluga pääsemine mürskude ja kommarite tule all. Hiljem liitus läänerindele kus sõjategevus seisis ja oodato lihtsalt lõppu. Taktikaline ja strateegiline geen ius keda alguses ei lubatud isegi sõjaväkke võtta kuna ta nii pisikest kasvu. Kindlasti soovitan lugeda sõjahuvilistel. Aumees hindab isegi vene tanke T34 saksa omadest paremaks, kuid saab aru et neil puudusid oskused ja väärt juhid.
The book was good reading, but I did feel, that it did lack good translation.English version was, maybe because of that, somewhat “stiff” in language.The book was originally indented only for the veterans of the s.Pz.Abt. 502.So that why it don’t open so good for us ”outsider’s”.After reading the book, I did sent it with couple of pictures to Otto and he was true gentleman and a signed them with best wishes.
So-so. Carius is still pissed at at how the german soldier is treated after the war.The book itself is mildly interesting, lacking any real human emotion that one would have expected of a war book. It's like he's describing a day in the office, which was probably what it was like for him; just a job to be done.
It is a dry account of the war from a tiger tank commander. It has a few interesting moments with interactions with key nazi members, but ultimately he moves too quickly through areas that could be better explained.Good but not great. It could have been much better and more informative
