https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37530.Erotism
Taboos meant to deny our animal side quarantine both sex and death so that we can get work done.
Death, and then sex, become a kind of psychic violence: Either involves a transgression of taboos; either violates the status quo of culture.
Thus, the Catholic Church becomes the most able defender of our humanity, preserving eroticism by upholding taboos.
Bataille makes death look good and sex bad -- he might as well be talking about salmon and spiders.
"Erotism is the affirmation of life, even in death" - Georges Bataille.Sex and death, the sacred and the profane, the longing for the divine... Bataille mixes philosophy and anthropology to talk about eroticism, touching a wide range of subjects, from human sacrifice and cannibalism to the Christian notion of sin and that which is diabolical. A must read!
Employing structuralist-anthropological categories like the taboo and transgression, and existential categories like anguish, nausea and horror, this philosophical work on human sexuality analyzes eroticism in terms of violence, religion and death.
In the latter half of the book, Bataille comments on others who have written on human sexuality.
For instance, he writes critically of Alfred Kinsey's Sexual Behavior In The Human Male, Volume 2, which came out only three years before Bataille wrote this book.
He analyzes the Marquis de Sade’s writings, arguing that they are to be interpreted in terms of those ideas that are the most paradoxical.
Devo confessar que a primeira vez que li O erotismo numa outra edição achei-o demasiado falocêntrico, mas eu estava sendo anacrônica ao julgá-lo assim, pois o mundo (e a literatura) era falocêntrico quando foi escrito, felizmente com o passar das décadas vieram o estudos de gênero e podemos agora aproveitar o que há de bom no livro de Bataille revisando para nossos propósitos, que no meu caso aborda pesquisa em torno de Hilda Hilst, pois convenhamos, não se estuda Hilst sem entender Bataille.
Here's a book title and cover art that elicit some subway sideways glances if you're into that sort of sexy thing and yet can stomach relatively non-sexy - and sadly, problematic* - theory.Now that I've read Bataille's fiction, historical non-fiction and theory (and not ever a poem but a quick google search just verified that those exist, upon which I would've bet the quite unproductive farm), I can assume his poetry has merit.
(I always defend that a great writer can exist even if he hasn't ever written greatly, but I know that's an unpopular - and obviously putrid-with-self-delusion - view.) Anyway, the guy has some gorgeous, provocative stuff in here, gems both in form and function.
A strong thesis that has a lot of resonance for my own thoughts on human experience. It required fairly constant mental editorialising however to filter out the extreme gender bias, the complete ignoring of homosexuality, and a tendency to a high level of repetition. These points aside though, it was a thought provoking read that sought to cut through bourgeoise niceties and stare honestly at sex and death.
Bataille hace un análisis historico para ligar los opuestos, el erotismo y la muerte. Aprendí.. más que de erotismo... un par de cosas aterradoras.Resumen:• La fenomenología batailleana del erotismo demuestra que, en su esencia, el erotismo está vinculado con la sangre, que no hay erotismo sin sangre y lo que la sangre simboliza: la muerte. “el erotismo es la aprobación de la vida hasta en la muerte”. • El erotismo surge de la dialéctica entre lo continuo (ser) y lo discontinuo (el sujeto) que
•	Toda puesta en marcha erótica tiene como principio una destrucción de la estructura del ser cerrado•	Lo que está en juego en el erotismo es siempre la disolución de las formas constituidas•	La poesía lleva al mismo punto que cada forma del erotismo: a la indistinción a la confusión de los objetos distintos.
•	Por la poesía que abre un hueco en el lenguaje, el proceso de negatividad o destrucción irrumpe en lo más profundo de lo humano y lo trastoca: el mundo, con el “hombre” incluido, deja de ser lo que era para ser otra cosa, siempre lo otro de un sí inexistente, y en eso como en la locura la sangre del erotismo adquiere su verdadero esplendor porque es el verdadero hambre, el verdadero deseo, el de mortalidad.
(Diario de lectura) Hace dos años lo leí por primera vez, vuelvo y encuentro una potencia, un atrevimiento teórico increíble. Pocas visiones de mundo tan ricas, de jardines que se bifurcan tanto como la de Bataille.Particularmente genial el cap. sobre Sade (El lenguaje de Sade es el de la víctima; La violencia es silenciosa y el lenguaje de Sade es paradójico; El lenguaje de Sade nos aleja de la violencia...)No puedo posponer más el estudio de Hegel, de quien sólo leí sus trabajos sobre estétic
(Diario de lectura)
Hace dos años lo leí por primera vez, vuelvo y encuentro una potencia, un atrevimiento teórico increíble. Pocas visiones de mundo tan ricas, de jardines que se bifurcan tanto como la de Bataille.Particularmente genial el cap. sobre Sade (El lenguaje de Sade es el de la víctima; La violencia es silenciosa y el lenguaje de Sade es paradójico; El lenguaje de Sade nos aleja de la violencia...)No puedo posponer más el estudio de Hegel, de quien sólo leí sus trabajos sobre estética. Ahí va.
Although sex and sexuality in themselves are amoral -- Bataille makes use of a moral perspective in his study of the connection between eroticism and death.
Human sacrifice (and its evolution into pastel Christianity / puritanical monotheism) and the writings of Marquis DeSade appear as two memorable themes in this work; as several other Goodreads reviewers have noted -- The chapter on DeSade is compelling.While reading "Erotism" I asked myself the question: "Must I now view life through Bataille's dark prism?
Bra, men det kunne med fordel vært mer pulings
I must admit to some fascination with the offbeat and forbidden myself, but when it comes to wickedness, to hurting others in real practice, I just don't get it.
Indeed, I've known a few, even dated a one, who intentionally transgressed taboos of various kinds, but none to the point of physically hurting anybody or even writing as if to encourage such practices.
Perhaps if one is brought up in a culture suffused with those weaker taboos, as a Catholic like Bataille or de Sade may have been, then the acts of transgression against them might lead to some sort of inertial impulse to go on and make the ultimate, ethical transgression.
Categories from structural anthropology like taboo and transgression are important here but Bataille carries them further than most cod-structuralists would dare & he extracts its logic for deployment into his own historical age.
But Bataille extracts a more complex reading, digging under the soiled flesh of Sade’s unpleasant books and reasoning that most torture, tyranny and bloodshed is not the work of sadistic libertines but rather is sanctioned by the state and wreathed in its antiseptic language; ‘foreign intervention’, ‘austerity’, ‘correctional facility’ all refer to organized death and slavery, comfortably within our purview of acceptable violence.
The whole thing is a wonderful and blasphemous!
Someone at the coffee shop asked me who Bataille was and I told him "a religious Nietzsche." Indeed, this is the case.
Bataille somehow, fitting in expositions of human sacrifice, sexual violence, incest, and all other kinds of assorted weird ass shit, manages to paint the most beautiful and lascivious portrait of the night one could ever hope for while ultimately reminding us of the necessity of that ray of light of human consciousness for us to enjoy any of it at all.
Beauty and trauma all around.
"...on the scale of unlimited loss we come again upon the triumph of being--whose only failure has ever been to be in tune with the movement that would have it perishable. Being joins the terrible syncopated dance of its own accord, the dance we must accept for what it is, conscious of the horror it is in key with."
Yes.
L'erotismo di Bataille è un saggio indispensabile, importantissimo. Ripercorre tutto, dalla preistoria sino ad oggi stesso. Pochi quelli che capiscano cosa sia il divino.
Although he grudgingly admits that there are people who don't think of sex as a taboo, the bulk of his book goes on to describe all sex as a transgression of those selfsame taboos.
He also misses the the significance of the Kinsey Reports, which he nevertheless discusses for a good chapter, and considering that this is a book on sexual taboos I'm a bit surprised that he never once discussed homosexuality.
But I think his ideas are going to resonate only with people who come to the book with his same neuroses.
Contemporary - and, in many ways, antecedent to the post-structuralists who successfully crossed the pond - Bataille's work on death, eroticism, and social structure left discernable traces in Lacan's working of desire and the law and, also, in the Derridean development of deconstruction.
Bataille, in a certain sense, might be thought of as an important post-War interlocutor for Nietzsche and De Sade (both of whom, for different reasons, had fallen into disrepute at the time).
I'm reading this for my Fulbright and can say that "Erotism" is a far more successful endeavor than Bataille's three volume "Accursed Share" work, which I found, in all, over-reaching.
The intro to this book has a lovely poetry to it and is worth re-reading. The book itself aligns taboo with anything counter to reproduction and the labor which is done for survival of the species. So the sacred and the profane are relatives, not opposites, as they do not contribute directly to work and survival. An interesting thought which is sometimes not supported so well by the dated 1950s anthropological research he uses to back up his argument. Worth reading alongside Bataille's literature.
A book that deals with the erotic in an almost medieval way--a sort of Catholic anthropology of the body through sex--despite some relatively modern psychological approaches to such things as orgasms and taboos. Curious and sometimes compelling, the book nevertheless feels unconnected to the lived experience of sexuality. I also think this might be a bad translation, since it often seems convoluted at the level of syntax rather than concept, though it's hard to imagine tracking down the French version to find out.
Wandering and banal, Bataille has two novel insights in this book. The first deals with de Sade in a way that altered my perception of the late Marquis. The other discusses the Kinsey reports, both their value and the degree to which they missed the mark about human sexuality. The rest of the book discusses taboo, organized and sanctioned (sanctified) transgressions, and the ties to eroticism. In my first reading, I missed any deep message that he intended and thought that most of his points were antiquated.I'd say skip this one.
Picked this one cause of the title.It really caught my attention.It's my first read for Georges Bataille. and I really have no idea what to think about it.It's a Really interesting read. There were parts that really got me interested, and then came parts that I just wanted to stop reading cause it was just so Dull and repetitive.The part about De Sade made me do some research about him and plan to get me some of De Sade's books.Also the part he criticized the Kinsey reports and how they observed human sexuality. That was really enjoyable to read.
This book is a very useful resource for anyone seeking research on how eroticism links with death, either from a literary perspective or a psychological one. The way Bataille is very lyrical but also manages to stay on point, providing a lot of perspectives on something that people are usually too scared to talk about but effects most people. It's a great read, especially for aspiring writers, I think!
I would give this book five stars for part one alone. I loved reading Bataille's theories on taboo and transgression. I would highly recommend it to anyone who is interested in the origins of religion, ritual, sacrifice etc.Part two is a collection of related essays and unfortunately didn't hold my interest to the same extent. After reading the first essay I skimmed through one or two others before putting the book down altogether.
best chapters are the last. sensuality and death. mysticism and eroticism. approached as a social scientist with a specialization in taboo topics, history of human extant relationships with concentration on religious and primitive sexuality, religious taboos, transgressions into violence. some of the sentences go beyond meaning, like bugs dancing around a carcass--If you can get beyond the academics really is somewhat intoxicating.
This is a fantastic book. One of Bataille's best, in my opinion. The investigation of early religion and the relationship between religious and sexual experiences sets the stage for an understanding of Bataille's project, its relation to sacrifice and mystical experience. I taught this twice: once for Philosophy & Literature, once as a part of world religions. It completely freaked out the World Religions class. I doubt most people read it in the Philosophy & Lit course.
I like to think of death as a final sexual act of some sort. There is something so beautiful in the gesture that is totally erotic. Bataille looks in the taboo and finds pleasure.
French philosophy that breaks down taboos, death, and sex. Check it out.
3,5
burn, baby, burn, that's all i wanna see...
