https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62032.The_13_Lives_of_Captain_Bluebear
And schooling under the tutelage of a professor with seven brains.I often found myself laughing aloud as I read, thinking first, "You can't do that!" Then feeling my imagination liberated because Moer had dared to do so.A master storyteller and actor, Captain Bluebear is ever so slightly pompous, but in that adorable way of harmless, well-fed scholars whose generous hearts are more than large enough to contain their puffed up egos.One of my favorite books in many years.
I read it again before the year was out, even though I only rarely re-read books and this is a formidable 700+ pages.
(c)Q:It was, in fact, the first time I’d ever thought at all, because I’d never managed to form a clear idea about anything in the eternally noisy atmosphere of the Minipirates’ ship.
Only one thing is certain: those who enter another dimension must change their way of life, possibly in the most drastic manner.
(c)Q:Until now they had never devoted much thought to how to spend their time; they had simply roamed because roaming was their way of life.
(c)Q:To justify their existence they spent their days roaming the lanes and trying to marry themselves off in the vain hope that two bad ideas might produce a good one.
Such a fun read!
Walter Moers' The 13 1/2 Lives of Captain Bluebear in turn felt reminiscent of Gulliver's Travels, Don Quixote and even Patrick Rothfuss's Name of the Wind.
Captain Bluebear's explorations of Zamonia allow Moers to build a world which is quirky, original and expansive.
The fact that the protagonist is a blue bear which interacts with all manner of creatures (including humans) is just one aspect of this strange world.
It is Bluebear's dedication to this calling and the story's emphasis on storytelling which reminds me of Name of the Wind.
If I would have been the editor on this book I would have cut out about, oh, 400 pages.
Really, the book is no more than a catalog of happenstance.
Multiply that by some 700 pages and you have a snorefest.
Yes it was.
Oh yes, they abounded within.
I suppose the most concise review I can give for this book is this---On my copy of the book, pages 561-576 were all bound together, not having been properly cut apart when the book was printed.
It made it impossible to read the pages without separating them.
The book's previous owner didn't bother to do so.
Mangels Kenntnis der Figur aus der Sendung mit der Maus (durch mein Alter) stelle ich mir sogar die Statur vom Bläubär und Dirk Bach ähnlich vor :D.Doch nun zum Moers'schen Universum Zamonien: Das intelligente anspruchsvolle moderne Märchen ist vollgestopft mit fantastischen Ideen und genialen Figuren, die immer sehr liebevoll und auch biologisch-logisch korrekt konzipiert sind: Rettungssaurier, Zwergpriaten, Klatschwellen, Finsterwaldspinne, Olfaktillen, die sich von Mundgeruch ernähren, Stollentroll, Wolpertinger...
What do you get when you put a Blue bear in one of the most wonderfully imaginative worlds I have ever encountered in Fiction?
Told almost as a biography of 13 1/2 of Blue bears 27 lives, readers like I are powerless to resist.Joining the story with a very young Blue bear adrift floating in frightening seas within a walnut shell.
From a giant Malestrom in the ocean to the legendary city of Atlantis and everywhere in between, we the reader share every every step of Blue bears epic escapade's.There is a certain magic in this book that makes it such a delight to read.
Bluebear is everything he should be and so much more than I thought he would be.
Thankfully a book friend clued me in to its existence and swore to its value, because without that I would have definitely missed out on one of the greatest stories I have read in a while.
Well I say turmoil because you and I would feel that way but not Bluebear.
Everything is just another life he gets to live, one filled with whatever is thrown his way to be thoroughly enjoyed and taken in stride.Why I loved this read?
Still love this book :) Walter Moers creates a vivid and imaginative universe and stays absolutely true to it to the very end.
I've read a number of his books by now, and this is definitely the best.I love his way of using the book media to tell his story, and though I generally don't care much for illustrations one way or another, here they definitely enhance the story.
The characters are original and well described, and the 13.5 lives different enough to make for a very interesting story.
I simply couldn't put the book down but devoured it in 2 days.In atmosphere Zamonien reminded me quite a bit of Dystopia, although the two books otherwise have nothing in common.
“A name!”“Yes,” said the first wave, “ We're calling you Bluebear.”The Babbling Billows obviously didn’t have much in the way of imagination, but still, I’d never had a name before.
It’s a fabulous example of an Author letting his imagination run riot, with the result being us being taken along with Bluebear to amazing worlds (yes, even Atlantis makes an appearance), with all manner of weird and wonderful creatures.
The many illustrations throughout add to the fabulousness of the story.I can only imagine how wonderful this book would be to discover as a young reader.
It’s a book of wonder and escapism.
A blue bear tells of his bizarre adventures (half of his 27 lives) in a fantasy world of extraordinary creatures.
there are said to be dimensions in which sorrow is the staple food of creatures that vegetate in little pools of grief", "Qwerty oozed majestically" and a clever description of "equitemporal tunnelling of dimensions" whereby time "can vanish while remaining omnipresent"; riding a horse is like moving in time to classical music but riding a camedary is more like a drunk drummer's rhythm.
Ein Klassiker, den jeder lesen sollte.Walter Moers Einführung in Zamonien durch die Augen des Blaubärs.Moers schafft es, in diesem Buch ein Universum zu errichten, was die Köpfe seiner Leser nicht mehr verlassen wird. Lebendig wird dies durch all die unterschiedlichen Charaktere, von der Berghutze bis zum Stollentroll. Es war mein zweites Mal, dass ich dieses Buch gelesen habe und ich bin mir sehr sicher, das ein Drittes folgen wird.
The story is very episodic, but there is a sense of wonder and whimsy.Bluebear goes on a journey of discovery, and each life (or half life) is a chapter.
After that his adventure include a deadly flower, working for a literary plot device, a being with seven brains, and young lady who rather resembles a hair ball.It is easy to see a reflection of current events in the book.
They're funny, but it is like that skit that goes on for just a tad too long.While there is not a over arching plot (such as a the rescue of a princess or the destruction of a ring), Bluebear's adventures mirror life.
This may sound tautological, but I'm disappointed that I didn't like this book.
Obviously, one would be disappointed after reading a 700 page book he didn't enjoy, but there's something more here.
It's like this poem.I had been to Zamonia first in City of Dreaming Books and then again in Rumo.
Every single one places Bluebear in the most dire, utterly impossible, surely-doomed, imminent death scenario.
And it's always through some deus ex machina intervention, one of which is even referred to as Deus X.
Machina.
Despite these countless hair-raising scenarios, the book isn't exciting.
Thus, despite his many near death experiences, there's never really anything at stake.
It's a tome of a book, but really a fast read.
It is reminiscent of a children's story book but with complex ideas so as to be interesting to the adult.
A blue bear that rides on the back of a pterydactyl that is one of a certain species that saves people's lives just in the nick of time (known as Reptilian Rescuers).
There are several parts that are laugh-out-loud funny and many more that are amusing enough to make you smile while riding on public transportation (always amusing to your seat neighbor).Highly recommend this book.
wish it weren't so big to lug around because the stories make travel go by fast!
Sag nie dem Wahnsinn ins Gesicht, dass er sie nicht mehr alle hat.
4,5 Sterne!Ich liebe die Zamonienromane von Walter Moers einfach, sie sind so sprachgewaltig farbenfroh und unterhaltsam, dass man sie einfach lieben muss.
Und auch dieses Buch macht da keine Ausnahme.
Alleine, wie viele Bezeichnungen für Schlüssel in einer einzigen Szene verwendet werden...
Dazu liest Dirk Bach das Buch auch wirklich gut.
Am besten höre ich gleich nochmal die Lieder zum dazugehörigen Musical(, die, wie mir dieses Mal sehr aufgefallen ist, zum Teil Wort für Wort aus dem Buch übernommen wurden).
"Das Leben ist zu kostbar, um es dem Schicksal zu überlassen."
Wow. This book was basically The Hitchhiker's Guide meets Where the Sidewalk Ends. It's exceptionally different and is a great book to escape reality in. There are many different stories full of memorable scenes and characters (Minipirates?).Definitely recommended.
Quirky.
Whimsical.
Creative.
Adorable.
Fabulous illustrations.The book is written and illustrated by Walter Moers.
He is German, but the book was translated.
I’m utterly enchanted.
I laughed out loud over and over.
I annoyed my husband with repeated WAIT.
JUST LISTEN.
He didn’t find any of the things I read out loud as funny as I did.
Dark humor.
I was reminded of Terry Pratchett.
Of The Princess Bride.
Of some of my favorite fairy tales that are multi-layered and filled with adventure.I’ll be reading all the rest of the series as soon as I can get my hands on them.One word.
Captain Blue bear ill by the author with crazy adventures of Mad Bear  This the book to read when you need to forget about something horrible to make you happy it's Terry Pratchett' Robert Rankin, P.G.Wodehouse, Family Guy & American Dad it is ....
Ich bin geflasht von dieser gewaltigen Fantasie und diesem Ideenreichtum! Wunderbar!
This is not a normal book.
If you want a normal book, this one is not for you.
I imagine it (the ideas for his books) happening like this - Papa Moers has a child with insomnia, and the only way he can get this kid to fall asleep is to make up stories - long stories, stories that dredge every inch of his imagination (the most prodigious imagination ever)...If you want to know who lives inside the eye of a tornado, or what its like to live in a mirage city, or meet insane creatures like the Japanese Bonsai Mites (my favorite), and you don't mind a plot that serves mainly to showcase Walter Moers' incredible incredible imagination - read this book, but don't worry about skipping a few passages when your exhausted brain says "Enough already!".
okay this was one of the best reads I ever had!Walter Moers is a true genius of writting I love his style and I really wish that more peoplewould read his books. I read the german (original) version and I think its more as powerfull as the english translation..
Man paveicās – grāmata bija.Kapteinis Zilais lācis aizviļ lasītāju uz pasauli, kur fantāzija un humors ir ēverģēlīgi izlauzušies brīvībā: uz Camonijas kontinentu, kurā prāta spējas ir lipīga slimība, un smilšu vētras ir četrstūrainas, kurā aiz katras idilles uzglūn nāves briesmas un mājo visas tās būtnes, ko esam izraidījuši no mūsu ikdienas dzīves.
Pie tam šie vārdi nudien neizklausās sveši, jo kas var būt vēl latviskāks par kalnu tupuci vai bollogu.Bet nu pie pašas grāmatas, biju gaidījis, ka arī šajā grāmatā aiz bērnu stāsta un pekstiņiem būs noslēpts arī kaut kas pieaugušajiem.
Sehr kreativ aber leider auch seeeehr zäh! Ich hab jetzt seid 2014, 5 Mal neu angesetzt und versucht das Buch zu Ende zu bringen, aber mir ist einfach alles zu sehr ins Detail beschrieben, was meiner Meinung nach in einem "Bilderbuch" nicht nötig wäre. Es werden auch eindeutig zu viele Wesen für mein Befinden beschrieben, die nicht wirklich eine Rolle spielen und bei denen man nachdem man das Buch zuklappt eh nicht mehr weiß, was jetzt nochmal was war und wie ausgesehen hat. Aber wie gesagt kreativ ist es allemal und deshalb noch gut gemeinte 3 Sterne.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
The slipcover of this book compared the writing to Douglas Adams and J.R.R. Tolkein.
While I agree that the author could be considered slightly clever and the book an epic saga, both become victims of too much of an almost good thing.
This book is 700 pages of repetitive, redundant and reiterative rubbish.
Now, I want those last 400 pages of my life back!
In short, by the time I finished this book, I wanted to beat the living daylights out of the author, the publisher and especially the 'writer' of the slipcover.
Mein Arbeitskollege hat mir dann auch gesagt, dass sehr viele Namen in dem Buch Anagramme von echten Schriftstellern sind, was mich dann noch ziemlich beeindruckt hat, denn dies ist nicht leicht, solche witzigen Namen aus anderen Namen zu formen.Ich war immer wieder erstaunt, wie man sich solch phantastischen Wesen und Orte einfach aus dem Finger ziehen kann und es dann auch noch schafft ein Buch über 700 Seiten zu schreiben, welches an keiner Stelle langweilig wird.
If not, perhaps you'll do yourself a service not going through the 700 pages, but if you are the kind of person who enjoys this book, boy, are you in for a ride!The book is like a big sprawling epic with no great point other than to tell the bizarre adventures of Bluebear (who is, as his name might indicate, a blue bear, and doesn't actually become a Captain until near the end of the book, but who cares) in the fantastical continent of Zamonia, where the craziest things seem to be possible but which at the same time functions as a delightful parody of human society and culture anywhere.
Since this is a such wonderful book by a talented and imaginative author, I’ve been afraid I won’t do it justice.
The fantasy world created by Moers in this book is different than anything I’ve ever read in books, seen in film or even heard of.
While I liked Bluebear, the true star of this book is the world of Zamonia which Moers creates in this first book of the Zamonia series.
BluebearThese three books are all on my top favorites list and they are the only books I’ve read more than once.
I enjoyed reading The 13 Lives of Captain Bluebear in the beginning. However, after making progress with the book, I started to lose interest.The characters are extremely unique to say the least. The world concepts are amazing, but the storytelling is far from good. The book needs a serious cleanup, say four hundred pages erased. I felt like more than half of it was pure filling. A bunch of chapters were useless, they had nothing to do with the story and the book could easily live without them.T
A bunch of chapters were useless, they had nothing to do with the story and the book could easily live without them.The story lacks consistency; it feels like a to-do list rather than a story.
I woke up today at 8 am, ate some yogurt for breakfast, took the bus to work, shot my boss is the face with my shotgun, and then took a dump on his desk.The things I love the most about The 13½ Lives of Captain Bluebear are the illustrations.
I think Walter Moers needs some work on his storytelling, since this is his weakest point from what I’ve observed.2.5 starsReview also posted on
is a long an entertainingly illustrated book of silliness. It all starts with the Mini-Pirates and goes on from there. The silliness is charming but also so unrelenting that I had to take breaks. What do you expect from a German cartoonist who is responsible for a character called Little Asshole? (March 31, 2007)
