https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13128.Cross
I may have made a mistake with these books.
For some reason I did not do this with Alex Cross and I am now starting to regret it!
People get recalled from previous books and I don't know who they are!This problem seriously affected this particular book for me and I think I enjoyed it a little less for that.
Nevertheless it was typical Patterson, lots of action, lots of death, short chapters that keep the action rolling and make you stay up late to finish the book.
I enjoyed it but think I may have enjoyed it more with better background knowledge.
This is the Alex Cross book I have been waiting to read; where he finds out who killed his wife years ago.
It did not disappoint!
This one was very fast-paced and as a reader that is now a dozen books in on the series, I felt invested into Alex finding out who killed his wife.
I think that is the best part of series: you get addicted and invested into the characters and their lives.
My quick and simple overall: fast-paced and more personal for the reader then some of the other books in the series.
Being a big Patterson fan and following the character of Alex Cross through all of the his books I am sad to say that I am really beginning to get tired of him.
To be honest I only finished this book out of dedication to Patterson and his characters.
It was alright...because it was Alex Cross, a character I have come to care about.
Hopefully this was just a miss in the line of Cross books and Patterson has some great new plots to throw at us.
(hide spoiler)] This villainous monstrosity was such in my head that when I watched the movie I was worried Matthew Fox was not up to the part.
(Okay, no more ragging, I promise.) (view spoiler)[Even if Patterson does try, in vain, to add depth to this story by constructing flashbacks of The Butcher reliving some grisly moments with his abusive father, and Cross's own flashbacks of his wife, these distractions never take away from the action.
So there I was, reading this novel, and thinking how trippy it must have been for Alex Cross to be watching a movie that had a gigantic old woman that looked like himself in a starring role.
I used to love James Patterson books.
(I loved Alex Cross' badass persona complemented by his squishy in the center role as a family man.) But lately I've chosen to stay away from Patterson's books.
However, because I have been with this character of Alex Cross for over a decade now, and I was curious to know what happened to Maria lo those many years ago.
It was a huge let down, not only to find out what happened to her, but to have to read the thinly plotted story that was barely related to the event.
Patterson has a series of Alex Cross books (most notably "Along Came A Spider", made into a film with Morgan Freeman) "Cross" is not the first in the series, although it is the first one I've read."Cross" starts off in 1993 with the happy Cross family, Alex, Maria and their two small children with another one on the way.
Maria is murdered and Alex is left to raise their son and daughter with the help of his grandmother.But when Patterson jumps to 2006, Alex has a third child, a three or four year old boy named Ali and never once does he say how this child came to join the Cross family.
An Alex cross book which he finds out who killed his wife back in 1993 must admit wasn't who I thought it was.
aunque sí me dan ciertas ganas de darle un pequeñito jalón de orejas a la persona que lo recomendó para leerlo en un club de lectura, porque si se dan cuenta, nos puso a leer el libro 12 de la saga de alex cross!
Parece que James patterson tiene un cierto desenvolvimiento natural en el género policiaco y el suspense; el único problema es que para desarrollar un libro de poco más de 300 páginas lo lleva a una excesiva cantidad de capítulos en los que podría alargarlos un poco y no hacerlos tan numerosos.
Second Read - I just re-read this book, and found the things that I didn't quite get the first time.
I thought it was one of the better Crosses, and if you like that kind of reading you probably enjoy.
Cross's and Sampson's friendship is one of my favorite parts.
It's been so good that I really enjoyed it.
Highly recommend.Part of the plot of this book has to do with Alex Cross' wife Maria had been murdered about 10 years before.
Then Cross' former partner, John Sampson, and childhood friend calls in a favor.
The case evolves to learning more about Maria's death.
Obviously there is still a murderer to be caught but for the first time Alex Cross's character is beginning to grow.
This was simply the start of what I hope is a new direction for the Cross novels and a welcome change up to the routine.
What better way to start this change and personal growth than by solving the case that turned him into the 'Dragon Slayer' in the first place.
Solving the murder of his wife felt like both a milestone for the character and a fresh start and I am now genuinely excited to read the next novel in this series.
Contudo, verifiquei que já era o 12º da série Alex Cross.
Mas vamos ao livro.
Dum lado temos o próprio Alex Cross, e a sua vida normal, com a mulher que ama e os seus filhos.
No outro oposto temos um assassino impiedoso que mata de uma forma agoniante, com um bisturi.A vida dos dois está interligada, uma vez que Cross investiga os crimes do assassino.
Até que certo dia Cross está em casa e o assassino entra sem explicação, fala e sai.
Dias depois a mulher de Cross é assassinada enquanto está nos seus braços.
After many years, Alex and his friend Sampson are on the trail of the person Alex thinks killed his wife Maria, 'The Butcher of Sligo'.
Alex quits the FBI and goes off on his own with his good friend John Sampson.
Eventually they tie the rapes to murders that are being committed by the Butcher (a mob hit man) and to Maria's murder.
So the Butcher is a hit man, he's killing folks for money, he's committing horrible rape/tortures, he's being chased by the mob (they want him dead) and the police AND he's playing at being a good daddy.
In this book, Alex is trying to solve a murder.
His wife's murder.
I don't really know how else to explain how much I loved this book.
I don't want to give any spoilers - other than the whole it's about his dead ex wife and everything.
Just trust me that this book is so freaking good.
Plus, it was refreshing not to have so much other drama going on throughout this book.
Like Christine being her annoying self or Nana Mama giving him life long lectures about picking a new wife and such.I just want more of this Cross from now on.
James Patterson's novel, "Cross" was a great book overall.
Even though this book was a good one too read, it also provided a few things that I didn't find too fond.One major turnoff is the fact that the characters in the story all seem to find disappointment or sadness throughout the amazing journey.
I feel like James Patterson's story writing is starting to lose it's exciting action packed feeling and turning into a cold stoned killer's novel.
It is starting to just turn into a depressing murder story, rather than an action packed novel that always has the good guy (Alex Cross) win.
but then I read another one because the thing I like about his books is Alex Cross, specifically, his ethics, his children, his friends, his grandmother, I want them to exist, I want someone that good to continue winning, When the story opens, Alex and Maria are discussing a case she's working on as a social worker.
Unfortunately Maria is not to continue, she's taken out by what looks like a stray bullet.
But she's made Alex promise to quit the FBI and continue as a psychologist.
Alex is a good psychologist.

I have at some time or another, read most of the Alex Cross series.This one simply does not measure up to other earlier books in the series which I enjoyed immensely.It begins with a flashback to Alex's wife's murder, and really deteriorates from there. It wasn't bad enough to make me abandon it, but the thought did cross my mind once or twice.Not recommended.
4 stars. Great story. I'm happy (just like last book) that the story line was a bit different and not as predictable as some of the others in the series. A lot happened in this book and I look forward to reading more.
Tendo ouvido falar tanto deste autor, o mais bem pago de todas as "celebridades", quis experimentar, para poder ter uma opinião própria: livro ao estilo das séries americanas típicas, com um ritmo acelerado e personagens pouco densas, demasiado "fácil" de ler. Não fiquei cliente, de todo.
Read April 2013Doing a re-read for a challenge. I really enjoy the Alex Cross series but I really need to start from the begin, hehe.
Apesar disso, encontrei um parágrafo sem qualquer sentido: "Embora a localização do condomínio a bem conhecida, as grandes que o ladeavam eram seguras, e Maggione duplicara os seus guarda-costas."  4º parágrafo, da página 288Só pedia um pouco mais de cuidado aos senhores e senhoras desta editora, pois se eles têm intenção de continuar a publicar as obras de Patterson, eu tenho toda a intenção de as continuar a comprar.
Cross is like a hot-air balloon - a big volume of air contained in fabric which, comparatively, has a much smaller volume than the air.
But we all know that even premises done to death can yield great stories.
Let's be open here - Alex Cross is the definition of blandness.
Alex Cross, on the other hand, is characterized primarily by telling, the literary technique I detest.
Why in the world is everyone sucking up to Alex Cross?
At least the guy was sometimes funny.Anyhow, I don't know if I will pick another book from the Alex Cross series.
Não sou menina de policiais, muito pelo contrário, mas o maldito Patterson tem uma escrita e um modo de envolver as pessoas que é bastante cativante e não consegui ficar indiferente. O que me dá bastante raiva, pois este senhor não pára de escrever livros e como se isso não bastasse, os malditos livros são sempre de sagas gigantescas -.-'''  Indo à história, gostei mais do Sullivan do que propriamente do Cross xD. O Cross é fixe e tal, mas foi o Sullivan que deu rumo à história e que nos faz que
A meio deste livro decidi ir ver o trailer do filme, pois não o tinha visto e toda a propaganda que tinha visto em relação a ele, era de um homem musculado e careca.
Bem, graças ao trailer fiquei a perceber que o Cross é negro (e juro que teria lido o livro todo sem ficar com essa ideia) e que o homem musculado e careca era o Sullivan.
Também fiquei a perceber outra coisa, que foi que muito provavelmente o filme e o livro não têm rigorosamente nada, mas mesmo nada haver =S.P.s: Houve uma coisa que me deixou muito confusa, a Maria estava grávida e tinha 2 filhos antes de morrer, certo?
I have to say that this is the best Alex Cross book I have read so far.
And in the book Alex actually watches a film starring the actor that plays Alex Cross in the film version of this book!
I thought that the villain of this book was one of the best that Patterson has created, I found him more believable than previous villains and I enjoyed the chapters featuring him the most in the book.
This is Patterson though so I am expecting the next book to feature another love interest and more abandonment from Cross.
1. A 5-7 sentence summary (beginning, middle & end) of the book, including an explanation of the motive of the main character and the conflicts encountered.2.
Your favorite line from the book and a 2-3 sentence explanation of what the line infers about the story, message OR main character.3.
The main character in the book is Alex Cross and he is looking for the person who murdered his wife.
Alex is a detective who will not rest until his wife's murder is solved.
I like to read stories about detective work and and mysteries and this was another five star book.
From page one: Did not care for how the author brought me into the story.
The characters were interesting but I felt like I was watching a movie on TV because there was nothing better on the other stations.It did have some great moments when I actually forgot I was reading a book (Always a good sign for me)but the story over all never really allowed me to get next to, nor close to the characters.
This is the first Alex Cross book I've ever read.
Not real impressed, but the ending did it's job and I just might end up with another Alex Cross book on my shelf.
I was thrilled to be reading this because of that and I was drawn into the story, fully hooked on how a series of crimes now is relevant to crimes from the past, and caught in the middle, Alex Cross.Then, about halfway through the book, the quality of the writing went sharply downhill.
I no longer felt a connection with the characters and the story failed to hold my interest which was so disappointing because I loved the first half of the book but the second half got a thumbs down for me.
This latest installment in the Cross series may have you thinking it's the last as Alex turns in his resignation to the FBI and settles into private practice as a psychologist.
Sampson for his part, doesn't really want to involve Alex because the murderer might just be the man who killed Crosses own wife Maria, more than 10 years earlier.
However, you needn't worry, the prolific Patterson is back at it and has already released another Cross book not mention several other stand alone's and a new one in his Women's Murder Series.
I picked this up at a yard sale.
I had never read one of his books so I thought for a quarter why not, I'll try it out, I like crime books.
Instead of creating suspense he tells you 'I'm in suspense', he goes off on tangents to create the vision of what he wants you to see but again instead of actually making the story create the situation he just tells you "He looks like an athlete, but maybe like one who hasn't played in awhile".
Why not describe a tall, muscular, slightly aging man instead?
I'm just distracted now.
Miserably.
*sigh* James Patterson has been one of my favorite writers for a long long time.
But this book just makes me sad.
Sure I read the whole thing.
I mean, it was an easy read.
But that's really the best thing I can say about it.
The Alex Cross series has also been my favorite of his to read on a regular basis, but it has just gotten to the point that he doesn't put any effort into his books anymore.
