https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71870.Darkness_Be_My_Friend
Oh, I tried for a minute, tried to pull my jeans back up, but in the end I thought, ‘Who cares, what does it matter, just get it over with and then I can go home.’I don’t understand what guys get out of sex like that; not very much, I would have thought, but they obviously get something out of it or they wouldn’t do it.
Next thing he’s undoing my zip.Oh, I tried for a minute, tried to pull my jeans back up, but in the end I thought, ‘Who cares, what does it matter, just get it over with and then I can go home.’And then she calls herself a slut and cheap!
First Read: March 16th 2010  Re-read: March 2nd 2018 The fourth book in the tomorrow series picks up after the events of book 3.Five months into World War III, Ellie and her four remaining friends have barely escaped the Australian town of Wirrawee with their lives and their sanity intact.
A group of soldiers has recruited the kids to guide the way to the Wirrawee air base.This book was the one that focused more on the psychological effects that the war was having on the group i found this was necessary part of the story because you can't go on without explaining how these characters are coping with how much there lives have changed in the course of a couple of months.
As this is the fourth book in the series I'll keep this brief to avoid spoilers. Another great installment in this series. Action-packed, a fast read, and great characters. Can't wait to see where this goes.

This didn’t impress me as much as the others in the series.
The book deals with the physiological impact the teenagers are going through as a result of the war.
The action scenes are still heavy and fast paced but it’s all starting to sound the same.
Not a lot of progress is being made.
Overall I think the series is brilliant and I’ve come too really like the characters.
In particular Ellie, I think she is one of the bravest girls I have read, but she isn’t perfect and that’s what I like about her.
Starting Words: I didn't want to go back.Ending Words: Pay the price and be proud you have paid it,that's what I reckon.Readable but not my thinghowever I will give it 2 Stars.
This review was originally posted on The Moonlight LibraryWe can’t all be winners all the time.That’s the theme of this book.Sure, in the past, things have gone wrong.
Cobbler’s Bay.Not in this book.This book is all about failure.Small mistakes.The kind you make because you’ve been living a perfectly ordinary life for six months.The kind you make because you’re adjusting to being dumped back in a war zone.The kind you make because you take things for granted.The main objective is not achieved, not by either group.Despite their failure, it’s still a good book to read.
"And so we started on that familiar journey. Again we became shadows in the night, dark dingoes sinking home to our lair."  3.5/5Me pasaron distintas cosas con este libro.Primero que nada, me costó engancharme, no sé si fue porque leí el anterior hace más de un año y me olvido rápido de algunos detallitos que suceden en los libros :O o es porque por un par de páginas pasa muy poco.Me pareció bastante distinto a los anteriores por el tema de que el cansancio está venciendo a nuestros personajes
3.5/5Me pasaron distintas cosas con este libro.Primero que nada, me costó engancharme, no sé si fue porque leí el anterior hace más de un año y me olvido rápido de algunos detallitos que suceden en los libros :O o es porque por un par de páginas pasa muy poco.Me pareció bastante distinto a los anteriores por el tema de que el cansancio está venciendo a nuestros personajes y se les nota mucho, por más ganas de no rendirse que tengan.
Otra cosa también es la repercusión que tienen los hechos sucedidos al final de A Killing Frost, es un gran golpe para ella y eso repercute en más de una vez.La cosa que más me gustó creo fue el manejo de las relaciones entre nuestros protagonistas.
Marsden keeps hitting them out of the park for me in this series, which take place in a present-time Australia that has been invaded and conquered.
In 'Darkness,' Marsden's teenage narrator Ellie is forced out of a sort of retirement in New Zealand after she and her friends accomplished a spectacular act of resistance in 'A Killing Frost.' Perhaps this is best, as Ellie seems at loose ends.
After some self-destructive behavior at a party, she signs on to return to Australia.
This story felt the slowest of the all so far, however I'm still loving the series. It was interesting to hear about how damaged they all were after their time in the prison camps. I don't think any of them realized how traumatized they actually were. They just kept living each day, never know when it would be their last. I'm really curious to see how the next book goes as they are now stuck back in the thick of the war.
(hide spoiler)], and really was completely raw and honest about her emotional anguish and survivor's guilt.When Ellie and Co are asked to (view spoiler)[return to Wirrawee with a group of Kiwi soldiers/saboteurs in order to assist with the war effort, I felt so incredibly awful for all of them.
(hide spoiler)]It was mentioned so many times in this that while Ellie and co are young, there are many child soldiers all over the world.
o.o;; I'm just hoping that, come next book, they'll get (view spoiler)[a real win this time (hide spoiler)].Now...
I noticed a lot more “I remember when...”, and Ellie will often stop midway through a conversation or action sequence to share an anecdote with the reader.
You get some more background on these radically changed kids, and it gives you new perspective on everything that happens.
Writing helps Ellie exercise her demons and sweet goodness does she have a lot of them.
Also, as soon as I thought some healing was happening for certain relationships, I got sideswiped with some really devastating news and lost it.
But I have a theory that it was because the book slowed down the pace a lot more and things calmed down.
Oh man am I glad I went right into this after The Third Day, the Frost!
I think I can stand to wait a little before moving onto the next book now, but not too long because WHOA.(view spoiler)[I am such a wimp, I swear.
and oh man, the ending!
That was just beautiful and perfect.It was frustrating how everything kept going wrong for them here, but I guess it's more realistic than if everything went right and they pulled off every single grand stunt.
but still, it's amazing how they're still five alive at the end of the book!
Man, I'd be dead in seconds.
(hide spoiler)]
When they're asked to return to Wirrawee with a team of New Zealand soldiers to undertake guerilla attacks, they reluctantly agree.
But when the New Zealand soldiers disappear without a trace, the teenagers must once again fend for themselves, and decide once again whether to hide out or fight for their country.Thoughts: This is the book where the emotional toll of the war starts to show itself.
As is to be expected with war, there's a mixture of relief and tragedy involved.
This, for me, is the book that's about exhaustion and a degree of resignation.
Yes, they're still fighting.
Read all my reviews on http://urlphantomhive.booklikes.com I really enjoyed the first three books in the series, but after the third book, it kind of felt finished.
Since I was reading a book containing the first books all in one, I knew it had to continue one way or another, but I was still a bit disappointed in the way they made it happen.
After all, they might have been acting as rebels, they are not soldiers.
The action is still very fast-paced but the story is less big than the previous books.
Nevertheless, I still enjoyed the series, also in the second part.
Still eminently readable, but not quite as good as the previous books in this series.
Ellie is basically suffering from PTSD for this entire book, so it is a lot more talking about how scared and tired everyone is.
It was a lot more about how terrible war is, but our intrepid youngsters seemed less knowable then ever.
There was a lot of narrative, explaining stuff, not very much conversation.
It's hard to explain because that all seems to follow one another - of course they are unknowable now, look at the crap they've had to do - but it makes the series less fun to read, also.
I see a progression in characters here, they keep getting stronger, no matter what they have to face.
In war time, this is an indisputable fact, you toughen up or you die.
What you don't expect is one of your own, one on your side turns on you.
Without spoiling anything, this happens to Ellie.
At this stage I'm going to say I don't feel that this series is suitable for anyone under the age of 16 simply because there is the risk that anyone younger may think that the 'thing' I am talking about is ok.
Vague, I know but there it is anyway.
I just love this series. This installment is not as heart-wrenching as the previous, but still has it's rough and depressing moments. It does follow the same formula where the climax is the kids attacking the enemy in some way. For some reason, I don't tire of this plot line though. I think it's because of the realistic characters. Can't wait to read #5!
The five are back on their own after the Kiwi soldiers vanish. Their mission in town fails but they manage to escape back into Hell. What next?
This combination creates a quite confusing feeling for the reader - but it works in the situations the characters are in because it's a lot easier to empathise with someone when you have an idea about how they feel, not just what they're going through.It's one of the most intense books I've ever read - there's either action and danger going on, or deep meaningful soliloquies from Ellie.Like I said, a great deal of the plot is focused on the characters, particularly in this book.
This started off a little slow for me, when comparing it to the previous books, but it was still a great read.
This book is the one that actually introduces the new characters and has Ellie and her friends in a different country, at least for a little bit.
This really showed how the characters have changed because they had time to process everything that they have done.*SPOILERS*Another thing that I liked about this book is that it gave closure for Ellie and friends because they find out about Corrie and their families.
This was the first book i read from the series, because i don’t know the meaning of chronological order.
But it’s been about 6/7 years since that first and only read.
Now i know why.
This book has the least amount of plot, it could literally be redacted and nothing of any consequence would be lost aside from facts that could totally be brought in later, when a plot was relevant.
I still enjoy the characters, the world and the pacing its just that this book, when looked at critically wasn’t the greatest.
After 5 months in New Zealand Elle and her little gang are asked to go back to Wirrawee with a team of New Zealand soldiers. The Australians are to act as guides mostly as they know the terrain like the back of their hands. But nothing goes to plan in this book unlike previous books everything they trie fails. On their First mission they loose the New Zealanders then they decide to try and do some damage them selves.
3.5I liked this one as well, the pace and style is great and there are lots of intense moments again. However, the way the book starts is really implausible for me this time. I mean who would send them back? That's crazy. And I have a feeling that although the plot was cool, it won't matter that much in the context of the whole series. Seems like an in-between. I could be wrong, though.
This is the series that started my reading addiction :) It's a great Australian series.
Not only does it portray teenagers effectivley , it also shows how Aussies live.
As an Australian teenager when I began this series I found that I could really relate and was enthralled with the series.
The series shows how a group of Aussie teenagers get swept up in the next major war after Australia is invaded when they go camping.
I just saw the film adaptation based on the first book in the series and LOVED IT!!!
Encore une fois, je suis conquise par cette saga.
Ce 4ème tome est particulier car il n'est plus une sorte de "huis-clos" uniquement constitué de notre groupe d'amis.
La seule chose que je déplore, c'est que l'identité du pays ennemi qui a maintenant colonisé l'Australie et mis en esclavage ses habitants n'est toujours pas révélée alors que nos héros passent plusieurs mois au début du livre hors des horreurs de la guerre, en Nouvelle-Zélande.
C'est le seul bémol "surréaliste" que j'apporte à cette saga mais sinon, c'est toujours avec un énorme plaisir que j'achève ce livre et me plongerai très bientôt dans la suite !
15 Jahren traue ich mich endlich an die englischen Bücher ran, damit ich endlich erfahre, wie es mit Ellie und ihren Freunden weitergeht.
Aber ich glaube, dass ich trotzdem alles verstanden habe.Ich finde es gut, dass John Marsden die Freunde nicht wie Übermenschen aussehen lässt.
Alle haben psychologische Blessuren vom Krieg davon getragen und John Marsden schreibt darüber sehr authentisch.
Aber die Clique rafft sich trotzdem immer wieder auf und wächst über sich hinaus, um die Eltern und das Land zu retten.Es passieren sehr nervenaufreibende, dramatische, traurige, aber auch nette Dinge.
I feel like Darkness, Be My Friend is the weakest novel so far in an otherwise excellent series.
I would still recommend the series on a whole but I hope the next novels are better than this one.
Some people might not have a problem with it but for me there were some issues with the plot that were so far fetched that it had a negative effect on the believability of the entire series, and I already had to stretch my imagination to begin with so that's not a good thing.Also there was a reference to an Alanis Morissette song and that's enough reason for me to lower my rating a little bit right there.
this book, #4 of the Tomorrow series, should have been incorporated into the story in either book 3 or book 5 of this series. If I had not been reading the series, I would have put the book down after the first couple of chapters. I truly see no valid reason to have a whole book, #4, segueing into another complete book. All this book does is link books 4 and 5. The only action is a muddled attempt to help the war cause for the Australians, and I don't believe it has to have a book to itself.
this is the 4th in a YA series about a group of Aussie teens who come back from a camping trip in the outback to find that their country has been invaded and everyone else in their community has been taken prisoner. by book 4 the story is getting a little formulaic--the kids have been through hell, they attempt another act of sabotage against the enemy. but i have to keep reading all 7 to find out what finally happens in the end.
