https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15985400-kinsey-and-me
This newest version is just released.The book is divided into two parts - the first half is a collection of Kinsey stories and the smaller second half is a set of stories featuring Kit Blue.
Grafton offers up Kinsey as her alter ego - "The person I might have been had I not married young and had children." We become privy to the similarities between the fictional Kinsey's life and Sue Grafton's.The Kit Blue stories were new to me and I think they affected me the most.
"If Kinsey Millhone is my alter ego, Kit Blue is simply a younger version of me." Sue Grafton's parents were both alcoholics.
I enjoyed the ten short stories. The thirteen autobiographical stories were sad and depressing, although they do explain the author's outlook.I have been reading and enjoying Sue Grafton's alphabet series since 1995. Now that I have read this book, I can better understand Kinsey Millhone and how much of Sue Grafton is part of her.
Sue Grafton was primarily a novelist, but she did write a number of short stories.
Kinsey and Me is a collection of Kinsey Millhone short stories in the first part, followed by a second part that contains stories based on Grafton’s own life with alcoholic parents.
She writes about her family: her alcoholic parents, who are the foundation of the Kit Blue stories in part two.
As she says in her preface, she realized after writing the Kit stories that she was working through her feelings about her mother.
The Kinsey stories were a failure for the most part.
And Kinsey's personality doesn't shine through at all.
Some of the stories had potential if they had been a novel, but now they've been used (wasted) in the wrong format.On the other hand, the second part of the book showed just how good a writer Grafton really is.
(I'm assuming that these are autobiographical.) I've rarely read such a spot-on description of depression and alcoholism anywhere.The book doesn't take long to read so the first part can be dispensed with pretty rapidly so you can finally get to the good part.
ARC copy.
Kinsey and Me: Stories is a rare treat for a mystery fan and for students of the writer's craft.
The Kinsey short stories show exactly why Grafton has such a loyal following.
They are fun and well crafted with surprisingly complexity for their given space.
The ...and Me stories - more vignettes, really - are what push this collection into something special.
They are raw and heartbreaking and beautiful; I applaud Grafton's courage and willingness to share them.
To the fan, though, they are also a trove of unexpected insights into the character and world of Kinsey Millhone.
This book has 2 parts to it.The first half "Kinsey & the second half "Me"Being a big Kinsey fan (getting ready to start No.19 in the series)it was almost guaranteed I was going to like the first half which consists of 9 short stories starring everyone's favourite female PI from the 80s.
They were all typical Kinsey stories, although I'm not sure she really suits short stories as some of them just felt a bit rushed & the mystery too easily & quickly solved.
These 13 short stories revolve around the character Kit Blue from childhood through to adulthood, marriage & children with her alcoholic Mother.
Let me clarify that by saying that I listened to "A is for Alibi" as an audio book and identified the character Kinsey Millhone with the reader of the series, Judy Kaye who does a great job.
So, I have "read" every book in the series courtesy of Judy.This book consists of 9 short Kinsey Millhone stories which were great - well plotted, clever, believable, and well written.The second half deals with "Kit" who is reflective of Sue's life in 13 stories that deal with her alcoholic mother and father, the dysfunctional family, the mother's illnesses, surgeries, etc.
The first part contains nine stories of Kinsey’s investigative adventures and I found them to be quite focused and pretty enjoyable reads.
They aren’t as fun as the novels because there is nothing of the larger group of co-characters that make the novels so entertaining; nothing from octogenarian Henry, or Rosie or Kinsey’s estranged family.
None of them are necessary to read for the enjoyment of the larger series of novels, as they stand alone completely.
Taken as a group, they do provide insights on Sue Grafton, as well as why the character of Kinsey Millhone is the way she is.
Or maybe, they just paled by comparison to the more nuanced Kinsey we have all come to know and love in the novels.In the very personal "Me" stories, Grafton deftly draws us into a world of sadness, pain and regret but doesn't abandon us, or her characters there.
As these linked remembrances come to an end, she allows Kit, the protagonist in all these stories (and a stand-in for the author), to experience the redeeming graces of growth, self-knowledge and love.
I suspect that a reader would not appreciate these stories nearly as much if they were presented as stand-alone entities.I gave the book three stars only because I felt the first part was so weak.
Ordinarily I don't care for short stories but I've been a fan of Sue Grafton's Kinsey Millhone since A is for Alias so there was no way I would miss this book.
Then I discovered that it is so much more than a collection of stories; it includes a lot of information about Grafton's life that she never talks about and some stories about a character named Kit Blue.
Blue's stories are from the decade after Grafton's mother died.
It's an emotional journey of self discovery.The Kinsey stories are short versions of her books written for various publications.
The main part of the book, Kinsey, presents nine short stories featuring Kinsey Millhone, a thirty something Private Investigator.
Each of these stories is well-crafted and presents a full, satisfying condensed version of the popular Kinsey Millhone alphabet novels.The last part, and me, is autobiographical and tells about her relationships with her parents, primarily her mother.
She tells us that Kinsey ages one year for every two and a half books.
She also explains the difference between crime, mystery, and detective books.
The mystery presents the story and makes the reader figure out the solution based on the clues.
I'll never turn down the opportunity to read a Sue Grafton book.
The Kinsey stories and Grafton's preface are totally delightful--little miniatures of the books, with wonderful twists and fun characters and dialogue.
And Grafton tells us that , yes, just as we've always suspected, Kinsey is what she might have become, had her life been different.The "stories" in the second half are autobiographical.
And they're not really tales, but reflections on how Sue Grafton evolved as a writer and a human being.
The writer has some talent, but is a novice--and the prose suffers, as art, although the pieces were undoubtedly cathartic for Grafton.
One of my favorite mystery series will never be finished due to the untimely death of author Sue Grafton.
This book is a collection of short stories half of which star her PI Kinsey Milhone.
These very short vignettes star Kit Blue who speaks of her love of mystery novels from a very young age, growing up with alcoholic parents, the early death of her mother and many other family issues.
I'm not sure why, but I felt very uncomfortable reading Kit's stories almost like I was learning way too much about a person I admire greatly.
Anyway, if you are a Grafton fan you will more than likely enjoy this book.
In the first section, we enjoy several short stories featuring Kinsey with her trademark tough girl persona and her ability to "lie" and follow the clues with diligence.In the second half, Grafton takes us into her own life in the ten years following her mother's death.
She is a stripped-down version of my 'self'--my shadow, my projection--a celebration of my own freedom, independence, and courage."With Kinsey Millhone as her alter ego, Grafton describes Kit Blue, featured in the final stories, as a younger version of herself.
When I noticed this book by Ms. Grafton to mark this anniversary year, I knew I had to have it to read.
In other words, the killer can't be someone who pops out of nowhere in the last paragraph." I hate reading a mystery and that happens, makes me so mad!Another point she wrote about that I thoroughly agree with is: "The solution to the puzzle and the explanation for the crime have to be natural and logical.
I can't imagine having to live a young dark life like she describes.
I love Sue Grafton.
Everyone knows her "alphabet" series (A is for Alibi, etc) and I think she truly started writing want she wanted to around letter P.
These are all short stories, with the first half of the book about her main character in the alphabet series, Kinsey Millhone.
I've always wanted to be her just a little bit.
She's in her 30s, living in California alone, a nice little apartment, runs to the beach every day, and she's a freelance private detective.
Pretty awesome, huh?But the second half of the book was really all about Sue Grafton.
Sue became her mother's parent when she was still in middle school.
The introduction she gives to readers in each of the letter books is pretty much the same as in each of the Kinsey Milhone short stories.
Not so much for readers such as myself, need and greedy for story development, character depth, foreshadowing, twists and turns, red herrings, false alarms, and complex solutions for our mysteries.
"Unsung Smoke" was poised to be my favorite story until the forced "mystery solved!" moment; the irony in the ending is one of my favorite things in Grafton's writing.
Now that Sue Grafton passed away, this was the only book of hers I had not read. It wasn’t quite what I was expecting but I enjoyed the first half with the Kinsey Millhone short stories. I’m REALLY going to miss those full length ones. The second half of the book were also short stories with a character named Kit and Sue’s frustration and anger with her childhood is obvious to where you feel horrible for her younger self. Rest in peace Sue Grafton.
I just heard Sue Grafton passed away. I’m really sad. I’ve been reading her books from the very beginning. Weird that I was reading this book when she died.
Wonderful short stories and brutally exposing truths.
Kinsey goes to parties wearing her all-purpose dress, leaving her much-needed gun locked in the glove compartment, while unknowingly helping criminals before bringing them to justice.The second half of the book serves as a memoir for Ms. Grafton as she dealt with her mother's alcoholism and subsequent death.
Kit navigates hating and loving her mother until her death from acting as a parent when she is young to dealing with her father's re-marriage and selling of the childhood home.I did not enjoy Kit Blue's stories as much as Kinsey Millhone's.
I did not dislike Kit Blue or the reveals surrounding Sue Grafton's life but I preferred reading about Kinsey.4/5 Stars
What a strange book – the first half being short stories starring Grafton’s recurring heroine, female P.I. Kinsey Millhone, from her long-running alphabet mystery series of novels (she’s on “W” now), and the second half being self-therapeutic random essays of Grafton’s painful childhood.
She has been like a friend to me, this character, throughout 22 books – I love the snooping and the details of her findings!
I love Kinsey Millhone and feel she is me when reading her cases.
Or maybe I always knew and didn’t need it spelled out.Two stars feels too harsh for anything with Kinsey Millhone in it, hence three.
This was like reading two different books behind one cover.
I liked the short stories about Kinsey.
I like short stories in general so I liked these.
It was like reading mini-mysteries.
And, since I already was familiar with Kinsey, I had an immediate connection to her.
They were such a departure from the "Kinsey" part that I had a hard time making the sudden change.
I found myself reading them all, but not really connecting to the story being told or the characters.
If the stories are autobiographical, then why not make them really this way?
I loved the short stories in the first part of this book!
I think the difference comes from knowing the character so well at this point that the disappointment of a story that ends quickly wasn't an issue like it usually is for me.As to the second half of the book, I compliment Sue Grafton on opening her heart up to the tragedy that was her growing up years and for making something of herself even when the world might have thought it would never be possible.As we get near the end of the alphabet, I get scared that once Z is for Z_________ we won't ever get to see or her about Kinsey again.
I have always enjoyed Sue Grafton and her Kinsey stories.
There have been times when I couldn't wait in between books in order to get my Kinsey fix.
I was looking forward to this book as I was the last Kinsey novel and I'm not sure I got what I was looking for with either one.
I missed Kinsey in the last novel.
I did enjoy the short stories in this book but they were only that - short.
The last half of the book was just painful to read.
Maybe a smaller dose would have been fine but the two didn't go together for me in this one book.
I was pleasantly surprised by Sue Grafton's short stories.
I thoroughly enjoy the Kinsey Milhone series, but I wasn't sure I'd like truncated versions of Grafton's well-crafted novels.
Well, each story was a complete Kinsey treat, notably shorter, but no less satisfying.
The revealing stories about Sue Grafton's own life in the second part of the book were dark and depressing, but they offer up an insightful back story to an author who is so beloved.
My only wish is that Ms. Grafton would someday share about her children and how her childhood did or didn't affect her role as a mother.
Kinsey Millhone is one of my favourite characters ever. To hear how Sue Grafton created this extension of herself brought tears to my eyes. People ask me why I read. It is compilations such as these that make me fall in love with a good story over and over again. Bless Sue Grafton for her depth, honesty and for giving me such a great book series to immerse myself in.
This is a book of a collection of stories of Kinsey's origins and how she came to be. Then it was about Grafton's life. Grafton had a pretty much messed up childhood with alcoholics for parents. The book was ok.
This is followed by the thirteen autobiographical stories about Kit Blue and her painful years growing up in a family with a younger sister and a pair of alcoholic parents.
Grafton’s father, C.W. Grafton was a part time crime writer, a successful lawyer and a functioning alcoholic who downed two jiggers of whiskey each morning before brushing his teeth and heading off to work.
Her daughter Sue was twenty at the time.After her mother’s death, Grafton used fiction as a way to work through and understand her past life, a way she says of “processing her emotional garbage”.
Sue Grafton has far more depth than I acknowledged while enjoying her Kinsey Millhone series of crime mysteries.
She also reminded me that she takes this genre far from what was a male-dominated tradition, and gives her female protagonist depth and strength without having her impersonate male private eyes or deny her womanhood.Where it all went way deeper for me was in the (shorter) second part of this book: a series of stories chronicling the slow death of her alcoholic mother, and what it was like to be a child in a family torn apart by the pain.
