https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7039.Tears_of_the_Giraffe
I have never really have any interest in reading the books by this author, but recently a member friend suggested I would probably like them so I decided to give the first one a try.
The main character is a lady detective and is an intriguing personality.
The pace is slow in an unhurried fashion and the crime seems to take a back step in that the book is much more about the characters.
I liked the main characters and it did hold my interest throughout.
I will be reading Book One.
I think a lot of the reviews appear to ignore this is a series written as a tea cozy mystery genre type.
Every once in awhile critics get excited over a "genre bending" book because a book didn't follow the rules.
This series is NOT genre bending.
What it is is an extremely well written, warm, amusing, tea cozy that lightly touchs on many aspects of African life, VERY lightly.
A light touch is at the heart of being a tea cozy mystery and this series does not break any of the conventions of genre writing rules.
I don't seek out Alexander McCall Smith's No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency books, and yet when I run across them in a clearance rack I can't help but pick them up.
I forgive McCall Smith for this, however, as it's clearly not his intent: His love for the country of Botswana, perhaps for the entire African continent, is genuine and infectious -- I can see why the country's leaders see these books (and the HBO series they inspired) as good advertisements to potential tourists.
I absolutely adored the first in Smith’s Botswanan stories, so after a while I set about tackling the sequel.
TEARS OF THE GIRAFFE is the better book purely because Smith doesn’t have to carefully set up the situation and characters; we already know all about them, so he can just get on with it.
As a whole the book seems a little deeper, a little more vivid, a little more in touch with the spirit of Africa, and it’s a delightful read.
I’m also glad that I decided to keep a copy of the paperback edition because it turns out I read this best by simultaneously listening to the audio book while reading the paper edition.
And I could see the humor via the audio that I missed when I tried to read the paper book by itself.
Also, the paper book helped me concentrate on the audio, though I did have to rewind at times, rarely though.
Reading the audio and the paper editions at the same time was a real pleasure and like magic for me.
Love this series!<><><><>This is a wonderful series to read and to reread.
It's the feeling I get when I read or listen to these books that I love to return to: a feeling of satisfaction, as though all is right with the world (even when all is not right in the present moment).
And that's just the way I feel every time I close one of these books.
This series has become a place I turn to when I want to feel like everything is right with the world again.
You can't go wrong with these books for comfort reads.
Wondering whether (view spoiler)[ Mr J.L.B. Matekoni will turn out to be as good as he seems (it's alleged in the last book that he is the sort of man who would help out with chores around the house) my fears were allayed when he adopts some children after hearing their harrowing story.
His kindness to them revealed just what sort of man he is and totally worthy of our lovely Mma Ramotswe.
(hide spoiler)]As with the last book, I really enjoyed the characters, the stories within the main story and I loved hearing Mma Ramotswe speak of the traditional Botswanan way.
I read this series and the Philosophy series when the world is unbearable and my emotions are out of kilter, they always cheer me up and help me through.
Times when my husband lost his job, or did not get the job we thought looked liked a sure thing, times when we nearly lost our home and I had a heart attack, these books have helped us through.
Times are better now, but it is a comfort to know Precious and Grace and their friends & relations are there, as well as Ms. Dalhousie and company.
Every person in the western, "civilised" world should read it and be humbled.This time around, Alexander McCall Smith delivers a simple and heart-warming story, which is concerned far more with the characters and community than with the little mysteries therein.
Nevertheless, this tiny book packs a punch - and I, for one, could almost imagine jumping on the next available plane and visiting Botswana, just to experience the people and the environment for myself.The writing style is deceptively simple, but it's easy to read between the lines.
It strikes me as a wonderful place to start - and I would probably advise people to give the first book a miss, at least until they've really gotten into the series.
A delightfully gentle series of books by Alexander McCall Smith - set in and around Botswana's capital city of Gaborone and stories of the 'No.1 Ladies Detective Agency'.McCall Smith has created a lovely world of mainly (very) amateurish sleuthing - which whilst ostensibly the theme which is central to these books, is ultimately almost incidental.
I liked this one so much more than I liked The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency.
Precious is so very likeable and I think she's highly amusing with some of her thoughts on women, men and the world in general.
I love the setting and think it's very unusual and captivating.
I really enjoy all the little stories that run through these books and the pearls of wisdom that everyone seems to have on offer.
These books are really easy to read and a pleasure to lose yourself in and I'm definitely looking forward to the rest of the (very long) series.
The main characters, Mma Ramotswe, owner of the No.1 Ladies' Detective Agency and her fiance Mr J.
The mysteries that Mma Ramotswe solves are pretty straightforward to the reader; there are no twists in the solving of the crimes, but this is what is so charming about the book.
Life in Mma Ramotswe's world is straightforward and full of moral fiber.
Her story of what happens in the day to day in Botswana is so different from life in the west, but has its strengths and I can see how much Mma Ramostwe loves her country.
McCall paints a serene picture (although with a bit of mystery and detective work going on) of Botswana and a wonderful cast of characters. I've been wanting to read this second book in the series for a while now and I'm so glad I finally got to it. I don't think I'll wait as long to get to the next in the series.
This is Smith’s follow up to the The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency and is another delight.
The primary tale is Mma Ramotswe helping an American woman find out what happened to her son ten years ago.
How that all works out is a charming tale of its own.
As is the case in so much detective fiction, it is place that is central to the story, whether the Fort Lauderdale of John McDonald, the San Franciso of Dashiell Hammet, the Los Angeles of Raymond Chandler or the Botswana of A.M. Smith.
– A delight in any case.
I love this series....for you who want to know the order of the books...1. The no. 1 ladies detective agency2. Tears of the Giraffe3. Morality for Beautiful Girls4. The kalahari typing school for men5. Full Cupboard of life6. In the co. of cheerful ladies7. Blue shoes and happiness8. Miracle of speedy motors9. The good husband of zebra drive
And since this book is a mystery novel involving several cases to be solved by Mma Ramotswe, well...I felt that Mma Ramotswe, as a character, is put on the back-burner for this book, and more attention is paid to other character who may or may not warrent it.
The cases were not as interesting to me in this book - the formula has already been established and there wasn't anything special that was done - Ramotswe, level-headed and fair, uses her intuition and detective-book learning to smooth out misunderstandings/mysteries.
2nd book in the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency series.
The story picks up right where the last one left off and is just as personable and easy to read.
Secondly, from the way she talks about how traditional and familial that the people of Africa are (or used to be as she thinks this younger generation is going down), would it have been in character for her to cause a stink because of the children?
Parts of the book were rambly, and I think this was to give the book a more personable tone.
Another great book in the series will continue with it.
I realize this is only the second book in the series, but for whatever reason I read the first one some years ago and then skipped ahead to five and then to seven or eight or so, and am now making an effort to catch up.But not too fast!
This volume is the one where Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni finds himself adopting two children---without first checking with Precious, his fiancée.
Grace solves a mystery, but is then caught in a moral dilemma about what to do with her findings.
Meanwhile, Precious is tracking down what happened to a young American man who disappeared there in Botswana many years ago.
The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency books are my favorite comfort reads: peaceful, unhurried stories about a country the author loves very much.
In the first, she's called on to find out the truth about a young man's disappearance and probable death ten years previously, and in the second, her fiancé Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni (who must surely be one of the sweetest and most decent men in modern fiction) adopts two orphans without consulting Mma Ramotswe first.
The second plot draws me in because the expansion of their family before they technically even have a family charms me, and I love the girl, who is fascinated by automotive repair.
I read the first book of The No.1 Ladies… series a long time ago and I don’t remember much about the plot, but I do remember I quite liked it.
What appealed most to me was solving mysteries in the Botswana setting, how “simple” were the mysteries and reading about how they live there.
It always a delight to read this books (as it also was to watch the tv show, be sure to check it out) although I find them a bit short.
This makes for a good light read that everyone can enjoy and it’s always interesting to learn new things about Botswana.
Another charming tale of Mma Ramotzwe. Many moral dilemmas woven through the tale, for which eventually the good prevails. Great read!
E' molto carino, breve e scorrevole ma non superficiale, apparentemente ingenuo ma pieno di "saggezza".Mentre si legge sembra di stare sotto un'acacia, si vedono i colori del Botswana, le strade polverose, i bambini sorridenti.E' la stessa meravigliosa parte d'Africa descritta nei "Racconti Africani" di Doris Lessing, ma qui c'è un tocco di - consapevole - leggerezza.E il "giallo" è solo un pretesto per riflettere sulle vicende umane.
What a lovely, refreshing story. This is a continuation of the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency. Now Precious is engaged to a mechanic who owns his own garage. She has now promoted her secretary to assistant detective and she is doing some great work on her own.There are also some new additions to the family that are sweet and charming. As usual, a wonderful read with many human, heartwarming stories.
Tears of the Giraffe by Alexander McCall Smith was a short, delightful read. The characters are complex, well developed and interesting. I especially enjoyed the strong, independent female character. Descriptions about Africa were fascinating. Several references to the giraffe were thought provoking. The giraffe gives its tears to the women and they weave them into the basket. We can all give something and the giraffe has only its tears to give.Looking forward to reading more in this series."Is it right to do the wrong thing to get the right result?"(KUYH's June 2017 travel challenge....Africa)
There weren't as many mysteries as the first and those that were there were not as interesting. The characters remained charming and interesting, though, so overall this was a pleasant read.
It aptly fits the book of this series.Having known the characters in the first book, this one settles you down with more happening in the personal life of Mma Ramotswe rather than a whole lot of cases to solve.
I always find myself having atleast one cup of green tea while reading the series!
;)Anyhow, the book is heavy on Mma Ramotswe with a lot happening in her life but as always she manages to work out everything.
Went back to this popular detective series and really saw a huge improvement in both the story and the cases being solved - actually the cases were pretty obvious but interesting never the less.
This seems to be a series you can pick up at any time and slip right over to Botswana and join in all the fun, family and cases of the No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency.
The result of the cases that Mma Ramotswe takes on very often end up helping others in a very sensible way, and in the midst of her investigations we are also pulled in to her lovely life, where she is engaged to a very kind man who has surprisingly taken in two orphan children.
The cases are interesting, the family life is interesting, and the escapades are fun as well – with a tiny suspicion of possible danger thrown in for some more spice.A very fun fast read.

I began this series about 5 years ago (2007 or so) and absolutely love it! McCall Smith was born in Zimbabwe and returned to southern Africa in 1981 to co-found and teach law at the University of Botswana. The characters in this series, set in Botswana, feel genuine to me; their personalities reflective of people I have known from Africa. I finally started the series due to all the people who kept recommending it to me, and I'm glad I did! I've read them all!I loved the addition of the two children and Mma Makutsi! This series just gets better!
