https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/109307.The_Shadow_Lines
“I could not persuade her that a place does not merely exist, that it has to be invented in one's imagination.”In The Shadow Lines, Amitav Ghosh writes about memory, or rather the imperfections of memory.
The book is a novel where the narrator recalls stories and events from his childhood and compares them with perspectives of other people to paint a full picture of the narrative.
History forms a central theme of the novel, where the backdrop of the story is set against events such as the Partition of India, World War II and the communal riots of 1963-64 in Dhaka and Calcutta after the theft of the Holy Relic from the Hazratbal Shrine.
The return of this asymmetrical Saturday was one of those little events, internal, local, almost civic, which, in peaceful lives and closed societies, create a sort of national bond and become the favorite theme of conversations, jokes, stories wantonly exaggerated: it would have been the ready-made nucleus for a cycle of legends, if one of us had had an epic turn of mind.~ Marcel Proust  The Shadow Lines of History (& Geography) It is said that childhood is the font of all stories. No stor
Between past and present selves… all shadow lines are sketched in loving detail.This technique is employed partly due to narrative expediency, but also to show the true nature of stories we tell ourselves - they are as fleeting as our memories.
Such strange places do we inhabit in our personal stories, the ones told to ourselves.It is only apt that one of the sideways glanced characters in the book is called MayaDevi (Goddess of Illusion), and she is in fact the main actor - the dancing shadow line - disappearing if forgotten or if paid attention to - possible (/living) only on the sidelines but impossible to live without.
From this narrative structure emerges a powerful message.For Ghosh, the world is intimately connected and our memories both shape and are shaped by the interactions with that world.
Cultures, nations and identities are not bounded entities but are formed through global processes of interaction between differently situated individuals.
Traditions, memories and history are in a dynamic interplay with each other and by exploring the way in which this happens for one individual, Ghosh eloquently paints a picture of heterogenous global world.
This book could be seen as a fictive ethnography of a global world, exploring how the narrator constructs meaning and understands his place in a global field of conflicting narratives.
the simple fact that there had never been a moment in the four-thousand-year-old history of that map, when the places we know as Dhaka and Calcutta were more closely bound to each other than after they had drawn their lines – so closely that I, in Calcutta, had only to look into the mirror to be in Dhaka; a moment when each city was the inverted image of the other, locked into an irreversible symmetry by the line that was to set us free – our looking-glass border.”This was my third Ghosh, and the first thing that I can now very easily identify and pinpoint about his writing is that it is turned both inwards and outwards, it is both Indian and cosmopolitan, and as such, most of his fiction concerns itself with the exploration of various connections between the two – between people, cultures, and countries that have a shared past – and while doing this it also looks at the connection between past and present, between memories and events, and of course, like all post-colonial fiction, between the political and the personal, in a non-linear narrative common to Indian fiction.
The Shadow Lines by Amitav Ghosh4 StarsOn its surface, Shady Lines is about two families – one English and one Bengali – whose lives have been intertwined for three generations.
It is through these seemingly unrelated stories that the larger picture slowly unfold until, eventually, you realize that they are all culminating in a single, tragic event that impacts both families.Ultimately, the story is about stories.
The stories of family history, the stories in history, and the stories needed to deal with traumatic events.
However, I don’t think anyone could go wrong with The Shadow Lines, especially if you are wanting a glimpse into the events surrounding Partition.
Their pages open up to spill a mixed bag of emotions and self-contained little worlds onto your lap.
Or how in the end, the very violence that brings in freedom, chokes it.
In Shadow Lines, Amitav Ghosh brings these subconscious murmurs to light, and paints them, with stunning heart-breaking beauty, on national canvases.
You are made aware of the violence outside the bubble walls, just a prick away - the violence that marks the shadow lines between you and the image in you see in the mirror.
It took me a while to get into it (the style, not the story/ies), and I don't think it would be to everyone's taste, but in the end it was a 3.5★ read for me.It would be too difficult to try to give a sensible synopsis, so here are a few of my favourite passages, showing how equally entertaining Ghosh can be, at both his most lyrical and base.As a young child, the narrator's mother reveals how eagerly he has waited for Ila's visit:At that moment I hated my mother.
I think this is the perfect book.
It isn't a novel.
Our lives are made up of memories.
This is a live example of that.
A person doesn't read this book, he feels it.
There have been very few books in which I didn't skim through some parts which I felt boring.
You read each and every word carefully yet without getting bored.
This is how a how a novel should be written." This is so true.
A perfect book in all aspects.
And I recommend it to everyone.Goodreads allows only 5 stars although this is way beyond rating.
For me, the most poignant parts of the book are the times when the narrator contemplates the meaning of maps and borders, or the difficulty of rendering meaning to violence with language.
There are love stories in the book, and sex, and politics.
The book follows the memories of the narrator, and like memories, does not follow a linear narrative.
This pulls you into the story, but also means that if you put the book down and come back to it you may not remember whether the events being described are happening in the present or in the past.
..... all I would like to say about this one is that......you know the book is actually good when it completely devastates you...you know it has served its purpose when it makes you question everything that you think you think you had known."And then I think to myself why don't they draw thousands of little lines through the whole sub continent and give every little place a new name? What would it change? It's a mirage;the whole thing is a mirage.How can anyone divide a memory ?"
stark... dark... depressing... heavy to digest need time to ruminate before I write anything further .
It is a story of a boy growing into a man, living in the shadow world of memories, which are so powerful that it has an impact on his present.
The nameless narrator in this book takes you through his story, which despite being his own, is influenced by his family and friends, making it a sum of their memories rather than his own.
However, the saddest part is that he remembers a London of yesteryears as opposed to the one that is today!As I said earlier, the book was one big ramble from the narrator, which made me feel as if I was caught in a blur.
The description and some of the reviews say this is, on the surface, a story of two families - one Indian, one English.
I found it only the story of the Indian family who happened to know the white English family and who occasionally spent time with one or other of them.
These latter may have taken place before the birth of the narrator, and are often told combined with his memory of the story having been told to him.
Perhaps I am wrong.Most of the story takes place just after partition of India and Pakistan.
And all of a sudden I realized that I have the same muddled confusion over this book.
I enjoyed many of the issues covered in this book - people getting displaced by Partition, living as a foreigner in another country and racial and religious bigotry.
But the style of writing made reading this book feel like work instead of pleasure.
The story is told as a young man's reminisence of his past, so some of the jumping around makes sense.
But I found Ghosh's sentence structure incredibly difficult to read.
But even though it's got this weird layout, I've found myself going through it at a pretty reasonable clip.*SPOILER (yet not terribly tied to the story, wtf?)*Still, I'm pissed off that I've spent 158 pages on it just to find out that the main character is an attempted rapist.
But its copyright is for 1988, so I'm going to continue to be annoyed.I'm going to finish it, just because I'm less than 100 pages til the end and would like to say I've completed it.
Maybe I'll be a little less annoyed when I let the author conclude the story.EDIT: I stopped at page 170 out of 246.
At the start, the reader is drawn into what appears to be a family history, but the history quickly becomes disjointed and erratic, the time of telling jumping decades ahead, turning the corner into a new story, spinning back, a chapter ending before it has begun!
But if you persist, you become aware of a rhythm, a poetic telling of a tale from the past, the present and the future (you are sometimes not sure which).
The book shows us the futility of trying to achieve these freedoms, but it is done beautifully and poetically.
I really wanted to like this book.
But...I easily put this book down to watch tv, talk to my cat, tweeze my eye brows or anything else.
The narrator /main character tells his story in a haphazard fashion, not stream of consciousness.
I thought it would be nice to read about a middle class Indian for a change.
The narrator's family was intimately connected with an English middle class family .
It was significant , but buried.I found the prose to be memorable , but the characters' stories, and plot to be shadows, not fully developed or at least not satisfying for me.
I don't exactly understand what it was that I loved about this book.
It's so simple yet lyrical, muffled but engaging - from first page to last it's just absolutely lovely.It reads like a collection of snapshots from different time frames pieced together which transcends space, time, identity, culture and distance through its fluid narration.
It was a journey through the unnamed narrator's mind who isn't trying to get to a truth but in that process reveals the greatest one - that there is no truth.
Boundaries that we've created are mere shadows and memories have the ability to eclipse them.Read if you can, highly recommended.
I must agree with Sandybanks review, the plot is quite confusing and the only engrossing character is the grand-mother who plays the main role in this narrative.
The writing was beautiful, however I was not entirely sold on the idea of shadow lines.
this book wasn't bad, it was just that to me it read more like a draft than a finished novel.
amitav ghosh is clearly a gifted writer and the book read beautifully at times, but his narrative voice and the presentation of themes could have been stronger.
the expanse of time and distance within the brief novel would have been manageable if it had been handled a little bit more adeptly, but often the year and location of the action would change rather abruptly leaving you confused for a few pages about what was going on.
it is not necessary to spell out the theme exactly, you have to give the reader a little bit of credit.
The non-linear narration was confounding at times... Yet Ghosh's signature style of writing left me numb with that (anticipated) ending
Yet another book which I think ought to be made mandatory reading at the school level, especially now when so many seem to think that nationalism and nationality are black and white ideas, too rigid to accommodate blurred lines or gray areas.
As an added bonus, we might finally teach students from a fairly early stage to see how history is always an act of selective forgetting and that how importance is given to events in history is largely determined by who is retelling history and to whom.
Amitav Ghosh's second novel is as beautifully written as his other novels, but the narrative, especially in the first part, somehow lacks cohesiveness. It reads more like the disjointed memoir of a precocious Calcutta schoolboy than a finished novel, endlessly flipping between different eras, sometimes disorientingly so. The grandmother is the most realized character in the novel, the only character who has seen it all, and whose presence holds together the different narratives. The book ends with a heatrbreaking revelation about events that happened the grandmother's last visit to her childhood home in Dhaka.
In my opinion the story didn't interest me, the storytelling did. The style was quite experimental to move back and forth in space and time. But otherwise the base story was in a way predictable and neither interesting nor enlightening.
Nonostante un inizio a rilento sono stata molto toccata dalla storia di questa famiglia indiana soprattutto alla luce del saggio finale in cui Ghosh si interroga sul ruolo estetico della violenza e su come rapportarsi con la narrazione della violenza mi ha portato a fare diverse riflessioni, questo non è un romanzo in cui compare tanta violenza sebbene aleggi continuamente come continuamente è presente nella storia dell'India
Told as seen through the eyes of the narrator, whose name we never learn (perhaps this says something of his place in the story: to observe), the story opens in 1960 when he is just eight years old, and traces events that impacted on the family from the start of World War II to the late 1970s.
That the narrator could describe events where he was not present because he had absorbed the tales told and retold by others and made them his own, was a device I thought both clever and novel.
What should I say, The Shadow lines is a healthy sort of a book, like it has a healthy theme, good English, good sentences, good flow of story, mixing & merging of events, perfectly decent characters happily meeting & parting with each other and their intricate relationships smoothly knit.
The author goes deep enough in the psyche of the characters without getting emotional, smoothly guides the reader through the story touching sensitive issue of race & religion at various points.
clearly describing each & every second, character, scene, relationships, historical events, walking through pictures out of memories and even the snippets of jokes & funny moments.
The Indian city of Calcutta, in the 1960's and afterwards is the main stage, but also London in 1940 and in the sixties, and in the second part also Dhaka in Bangladesh are places of interest in this novel.
After a while I understood that this book is about boundaries, in space and in time, and the main message is that boundaries only are shadow lines, no real fences that delimit other worlds: events in Calcutta, London and Dhaka are interrelated; and events in the past, or the memories about them, have a formative influence on the present; even the boundaries between coloniser and colonised aren't very sharp.
On the one hand it is a brilliantly written novel, which interweaves a number of stories and characters effortlessly.
On the other hand I found the latter half of the novel really hard finish.
As I continued the realisation hit me that it might never happen, however on this point I was wrong we finally find out on the last two pages!It is hard to deny that this is a well written novel with atmosphere and fully formed characters; the problem was I don’t think I actually cared about them.
It was around the time I made this realisation that the novel became harder to read.
