https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30653967-the-women-in-the-castle
Suddenly she saw everything in its harsh, naked state. She felt the pulse of the lives lived inside the mean little house she passed: selfish or generous, kind or unkind, ugly or tolerable, almost all of them sad. And she saw the histories of the people passing by like x-rays stamped on their faces—ugly, mutinous tracings of dark and light: a woman who had ratted out a neighbor, a man who had shot children, a soldier who had held his dying friend in his arms. Yet here they were, carrying groce
The Women in the Castle begins during the war, but is mostly about the post-war period, for Germans, particularly the three women of the title.
An American occupation officer finds the third woman, Ania Grabanek, from a list of women Marianne had given him.
It is a delicate balancing act, engaging us in the stories of the three women while also showing what Germany was like in the years after the war.
But She Was a Nazi.Other books by Jessica Shattuck-----A Perfect Life - 2010-----The Hazards of Good Breeding - 2004A nifty list of  indie Post-War films
Marianne was married to Albreht Von Lingenfels, from a long line of revered German Generals, who wanted to help bring Hitler to the court of law with the support of the outside world.
Marriane was married to Albreht: They had 3 children: Fritz, Elizabeth, and Katharine.Connie was Marianne's oldest friend.
Connie asked Marianne to promise to look after Benita and their - not yet born child - if anything should happen to him.
The one thing Marianne, Benita, and Anita, had in common is that each of their husbands were killed in this war.
Marianne and her husband Albrecht are hosting, news comes to them of destruction taking place that will later be known as Kristallnacht.
Marianne is not a woman that lets things go on around her without knowing what is going on, so she enters a room where her husband, her best friend Connie and others are talking about how scared they are of what is becoming of their country.
And she saw the histories of the people passing by like x-rays stamped on their faces-ugly, mutinous tracings of dark and light: a woman who ratted out a neighbor, a man who had shot children, a soldier who had held his dying friend in his arms.
Flat and borderline lifeless, it was more the pity and heartbreak I felt on behalf of these characters than any sort of likability, that kept me interested in their story.Almost a character in and of itself, Burg Ligenfels, a remote and decrepit Bavarian castle, opens and closes the doors on these women and their journey to peace.
It all starts with a party in 1938, held at the castle, where Marianne’s husband, Albrecht, and her best-friend, Connie, decide it’s time to take a stand against Hitler, consequences be damned.
At the end of World War II Marianne von Lingenfels tracks down her childhood friend, Connie Flederman's son Martin and his wife Benita.
Marianne had made Connie a promise to take care of his family if anything happened to him.
Marianne feels responsible after promising her support to Albercht as his wife to take care of the other widows.
She draws up a list of names to see if anyone else shows up from it, which eventually leads to Ania and her two sons coming to join her as well.
Also the way she acted in the situation with Ania, I didn't even see what the big deal was with everything that happened.
But this is the story not of the bold, brave German resistors but of the wives and children left behind.
With chapters that move around in time , the lives of these women unfold and it becomes clear to the reader, but not necessarily to Marianne that these two women have secrets and pasts that are very different than the privileged life she led before the war.
What this novel has brilliantly done is depict the lives of these women before the war in the flashback chapters and of course afterwards, giving a view on the Germans , that I have not often read about.
Captivated initially by the premise and cover but disappointed in the historical detail delivered.
This book just wasn't what I was hoping forSet at the end of World War II, in a crumbling Bavarian castle that once played host to all of German high society.
The year is 1938, setting a picture of the pre-war days, the Countess’s famous harvest party is being assembled, organized, and hosting this party is Marianne von Lingelfels, niece-in-law of the Countess, accompanied by her husband, Albrecht, her once-upon-a-time professor.
Since that night of the party when Connie declared her  commander of wives and children she has taken this role very seriously, but her first duty was her promise to Connie to watch over Benita and Martin.
Their new lives are very different from their old ones; much has changed aside from the destruction of the war.
I found this to be a dramatic and an uniquely told story that gave me a new understanding and a different perspective on this time period of World War II that I have never experienced before while reading a Historical Fiction novel.THE WOMEN IN THE CASTLE by JESSICA SHATTUCK is an intriguing, powerful, difficult, and thought-provoking read about the struggles and relationships of three widowed women.
I liked each of our main characters equally, Marianne, Ania and Benita although, it did take me a little while to warm up to them but once I did, I became fully involved in this story as I learned more about them and the history surrounding this time period.
Life of course never turns out exactly as planned, and eventually secrets exposed, and the ending of something important will divide these women, one will pay a terrible price.
It does show, as has happened many times, exactly what woman left alone while men plotted or went off to fight, were exposed to, faced, the danger, food shortages and the many things they had to do to survive.
And what the postwar period meant for the German people, fear of confronting their dark guilt and shame, but needing to in order to gain peace or redemption or forgiveness or something, the blame and responsibility shifting according to each character and their own history and action and inaction.While it may not quite attain the literary highs or mass adoption that All the Light We Cannot See did, The Women in the Castle is a great addition to recent WWII fiction, and from its very different vantage point feels fresh from what has come before.
Marianne's husband Albrecht, a university professor, and family friend Connie Fledermann, along with several other male guests are engaged in serious discussions in the study.
Connie asks her to be "commander of wives and children" if the plan goes awry.
Marianne began her search for war widows and children of conspirators.
She located Connie's son Martin in a Children's Home where instructors taught the doctrine of racial purity.
Marianne was able to reunite mother and son and bring them to the Bavarian castle.A second widow, Ania Gruber with children in tow, was rescued from a displaced persons camp.
Now three widows with their children lived in the castle.
The Women in the Castle: A Novel★★★★ 4 Impressive Stars!"The historian will tell you what happened, the novelist will tell you what it felt like.”E.L. Doctorow*********************************************** "I received a free advance e-copy of this book from HarperCollins via Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review, thank you! There's something about learning history through the eyes of fictional characters that engages our senses and crystallizes the impact world affairs have had in humanity
Marianne von Lingenfels is hosting the annual harvest party thrown by her husband's Albrecht aunt, an elderly countess known for her rebellious spirit and anti-German views.Under Hitler, the economy is once again booming, there are plenty of jobs and although the Nazis are actively inciting the flames that would eventually lead to a new war, most Germans are happy to be enjoying this new level of prosperity.As in turns out, that same night, violence against Jews breaks out all across the Reich.
5 Stunning StarsThe Women in the Castle is a remarkable, elegant and well-crafted story that left me quietly closing my eyes and thinking about each character and contemplating their stories and decisions.
I was highly engaged in the relationships of these three interesting and memorable women and their stories that took me on an emotional journey as I learned how their relationships formed, grew and changed.
They are flawed, damaged and brave women who create some of their own damage that left me sympathetically frustrated, and heartbroken at times.
The Women in the Castle is a heartbreaking and heartwarming story that I highly recommend.
A few times throughout the story, I did find myself feeling a bit lost which is my reason for taking away one star.
I found that part of the story very interesting but I finished the book feeling hungry for more detail and understanding of exactly what their plans were and how they would go about it (perhaps this is just me though because I always find myself strongly drawn to stories of the resistance fighters – how brave and heroic they were!).
And underneath the layers of time, the face of someone’s child, a girl some mother diapered and fed and held.” Simply heart breaking.Overall, this was a captivating historical fiction story that I would highly recommend!
Especially interesting to me was the way the author dealt with the aftermath, a time of rebuilding and dealing with grief and guilt.
When Anje sees people being herded into cattle trucks she looks the other way and tries not to analyse what is happening.
People wanted to believe in Hitler and so they did.This is a very readable book.
The three main characters are all interesting in their separate ways and their story sucks the reader in and does not let go.
It is also beautifully written.Recommended especially for readers of historical fiction and easily up there with the best World War 2 fiction books.
The book started out fine for me and then I lost my interest, then my interest picked back up and then I felt bored again.
By the description of the book, and the reviews of friends, I thought this book would knock my socks off.
Well, my socks stayed on and I was not blown away.This is a book about survival of women during the last parts of WWII.
Marianne finds the two women and Martin, Benita's son, one and by and brings them to the dilapidated castle owned by her husband's relatives.This one did not live up to the hype for me.
As I read the first several pages of The Women in the Castle, I knew that this was going to be a good read. What I didn't know was how very good it was going to be. The story follows three widows during the years after World War II. These women are very different people with different strengths, flaws and secrets. They are alike in that they are all German trying to live with what they did or didn't do and the guilt or "moral clarity" that accompanies their actions. Devastating. I highly recommend The Women in the Castle.
The men had slipped into the office at the castle to discuss their plans, when Albrecht von Lingelfels' wife Marianne interrupts.
Her childhood friend, Martin Constantine Fledermann, known to his friends as "Connie", appoints Marianne "the commander of wives and children." At the time she feels a little belittled but later she would replay that last night in her mind, long after both Albrecht and Connie were dead, as well as half the people at the party that night, and takes seriously the responsibility to find and care for the families of the resistors.
As many novels as I've read about WWII this is the first I've read that focuses mainly on its aftermath. I liked that with the characters I was able to garner insight into how non Jewish Germans viewed Hitler and his ideology. I thought the ending was a bit anticlimatic, but overall a very good story.
4.5★I’ve read many WWII books and friends may note that I’m often not singing praises to those written by women too heavily influenced with female energy, melodrama, and romance.
This is an expertly rendered human drama illuminating Germans in a beloved homeland before and after Hitler ruthlessly powered through Europe and shattered millions of lives and history.
This is the kind of rich, intelligent storytelling I yearn for and appreciate.Years ago I had a lovely friend Paula who told me stories of her life in Germany and of the daring and successful escape of her husband who was in prison and scheduled to be executed for speaking out against Hitler.
Through the three main characters, Marianne, Benita and Ania we are shown very different lives in this same harsh setting, and how people could make very different choices in the same situation.
I though Marianne's was very well written, but Ania's story was the one that was most interesting.
Highly recommended.The Story: The Women in the Castle tells of the relationship between three women, each of whom suffers loss and tragedy during and after World War II.
It’s a story of secrets that are held in for decades—secrets that affect relationships.
The writing is so gorgeous and fraught with emotion, and the characters are so very real and sympathetic.Marianne is the niece-in-law of a German countess, living in the family castle in the woods of Bavaria when her husband and best friend from childhood, both men in the German Resistance, fail in an attempt to assassinate Hitler and are themselves killed.
Ania is quiet and secretive but turns out to be a good housemate, and the three women form a type of life taking care of each other.Marianne is one with a good heart, and good intentions that will end up going wrong.
Drie Duitse vrouwen die elkaar leren kennen tijdens WOII...Marianne, Benita en Ania...alle drie weduwe van verzetsstrijders.
Ieder met een eigen verleden en eigen karakter...
en de daaruit voortvloeiende keuzes die ze maken...samen overleven ze de oorlog...Marianne met haar zwart witte kijk op de wereld, haar rechtlijnige blik op goed en kwaad veroordeelt Benita en Ania voor de keuzes die ze willen maken of hebben gemaakt.
Op latere leeftijd overpeinsd ze haar leven en heeft hier spijt van.Ik werd getriggerd door het thema van het verhaal...er is weinig geschreven over Duitse verzetsweduwen tijdens WOII...het verhaal echter wist me maar matig te boeien...jammer...
I think each of these women managed to make me like/dislike them during different periods of the story.
I especially appreciated the contrast between the German/American divide among the women and their children and the speculation of what lessons one generation has learned but another may have forgotten.
3) As the story evolved, I like how my own thoughts and feelings were constantly changing and that definitely makes this book a talking piece.
This book is centered around a different perspective-German women that were married to men that did things that they are left to grapple with.
If you liked The Nightingale, you will probably enjoy this tale of strong, resilient women on the wrong side of WW 2. It is down right hard to make those on the wrong side of history sympathetic, but here it is accomplished. I was hesitant at first, because I disliked The Reader and hated Gone With the Wind, but this book was a pleasant surprise. She doesn't sugarcoat the wrongs committed by "ordinary Germans", but she illustrates how horror can happen anywhere.
Albrecht von Lingenfel and his friends in the German resistance conspired to bring down Adolf Hitler.
The widowed Marianne von Lingenfel searches for the wives and children of the other conspirators to offer them a home in the decaying family castle after World War II ends.
When faced with difficult moral choices, things were not always black and white.It was interesting to read a book about the end of World War II from the points of view of three German women coming from very diverse social, economic, and political backgrounds.
Before, during, and after the war Marianne was there to support everyone even though she had lost everything except her castle and her children.Marianne previously lived in a castle with her husband, Albrecht and her children before the Germans took it over. Her husband was a member of the resistance but was killed by the Germans along with other members. His request was for Marianne to take care of the families of other members if he and his fellow members were killed.Marianne complied with her
Before,​ during​,​ and after the war Marianne was there to support everyone even though she had lost everything except her ​castle and her children.Marianne previously lived in a castle with her husband, Albrecht and her children before the Germans took it over.
His request was for Marianne to take care of the families of other members if he and his fellow members were killed.Marianne complied with her husband's wishes and found two women including Benita who had married a man Marianne actually had loved at one time and who was a family friend.These women and their children lived together and endured the hardships after the war as well as sharing their lives before and during the war.
Her husband, Albrecht, her former professor, is less interested in the harvest party and more concerned in political events.
Marianne is a woman who feels her responsibilities strongly and she will do her best to find the widows of the men involved in the plot and to care for them – almost regardless of their wishes.
She tracks down Benita and her son, Martin, and brings them to live with her and her own children at the castle.
It is soon clear that Marianne does not only feel responsible for those she gathers up.
I know we've all been inundated with World War ll books lately but don't let that discourage you from reading "Castle".
Of course I think we'll still continue to flesh out answers as to what led Germany to wage World War ll and the rest of the worlds reactions or non-reactions continue to need exploration.This is a book that reminds us that we don't have all the answers to the why and some of thehowof WW ll.
I I'm sounding philosophical right now but that's the state in which Shattucks book left me...looking both outward and inward and questioning.
