https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2195289.I_Was_Told_There_d_Be_Cake
HOW TO WRITE A MEMOIR/PERSONAL COLLECTION OF ESSAYS LIKE SEDARIS, BURROUGHS, VOWELL, KLOSTERMAN, AND NOW SLOANE CROSBY:So you want to be a successful memoirist/personal essayist? Follow these ten steps and wait for the book deals to roll into your mailbox!1. Write about your upbringing in ways that make it sound charming in its quirkiness (e.g. the Vowell/Klosterman strategy), charming in its weirdness (the Sedaris strategy) or terrifying (the Burroughs strategy). Under no circumstances should y
HOW TO WRITE A MEMOIR/PERSONAL COLLECTION OF ESSAYS LIKE SEDARIS, BURROUGHS, VOWELL, KLOSTERMAN, AND NOW SLOANE CROSBY:So you want to be a successful memoirist/personal essayist?
Write about high school and college, but make sure you don’t make your experience sound too fun or interesting..
Make sure you write about your social and academic struggles and/or humiliations so your readers can either relate and/or feel superior.
Your readers will recognize these references and think that if they write about, say, the first time they saw “Twin Peaks” then they too can be successful memoirists/essayists.10.
It sounded like the stories you tell your friends-your friends think the stories are funny because they know you.
Maybe they even tell you that you're really funny and you should write all these stories down and publish them because you are so funny and your stories are so unique.
You know that only your friends will think your stories are funny and that they're not really all that different from any other creative type's silly family antics.
This lady doesn't seem to catch on to that and she's not my friend so I just don't care about what happens in her fairly tepid life.I don't know her personally.
I read these stories, these essays about her life in New York City post graduation and I have flat out, after the first 8 page essay, decided that I do not like her.I do not like her.I read the first essay about her need to collect plastic ponies and how each one represented a failed relationship and then turned to the back cover of the book, took one look at her picture and noted her startling resemblance to my dear friend Miranda (who just got married in Mexico).Miranda is pretty in a very universal way.
This book feels like the author is just too young, lacks the meaningful life experiences needed to flesh out a book, and is stretching the hell out of what little has happened to her.
Perhaps the book's title is the author's way of saying she's aware of this book's "let them eat cake" laissez faire attitude.
And to be fair and honest, I did get some laughs out of Crosley's essays.
The day it arrived, I was between books and just wanted something to read on the subway.
And then I kept reading.I tend to not like to read books by "successful" people around my age.
In the end, all that really needs to be said is yes, this book had me laughing out loud several times.
I wanted to hate this book and this author.
I too moved to "the city" after college to work in book publishing.
So, in conclusion, make me laugh, through in a few little nuggets of truth like the above, and I won't regret the time I spent reading your book.
Dosadniju i pretenciozniju knjigu davno nisam držala u rukama... Ali sam zbog posla bila prinuđena da je pročitam... Jel' je čitao još neko?
sloane crosley comes across as a sweet, self-depreciating, smart and witty -- but a far cry from david sedaris or sarah vowell, two writers her style was linked to in blurbs.
yet meghan daum's seal of approval did prompt me to buy this.] it is heavy handed in the PR direction: this is a woman who is not going to make enemies with this book of essays.
being a bridesmaid for a woman she no longer knows -- also a good story that falls flat in the end.i'm going to stop reading books shelved in the humor section and go back to memoirs.
Sloane Crosley is similar to me and my friends in education, background, life experience, career trajectory, and the like.
The big difference is she has a book deal, and we do not.
As such, I tried to read this with an open mind and not hate her off the bat.
Turned out that was all an unnecessary gesture on my part, as even someone completely remote from her experience would realize she is one of the most talentless hacks to come along in ages.
This book was unbearable!
These "essays" (more accurate definition: 8th-grade reading level diary entries) were not interesting, not insightful, and almost unbearably badly written.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestWe're all in the midst of our own existential dilemmas and hearing someone write quirky little diatribes about their Devil Wears Prada-esque boss or the friend who left poop on their carpet can sometimes make us feel as though we aren't alone.I WAS TOLD THERE'D BE CAKE isn't that different from the hundreds of other autobiographical essays out there, but Sloane Crosley does have a style that is all her own. Some of her analogies are creativ
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestWe're all in the midst of our own existential dilemmas and hearing someone write quirky little diatribes about their Devil Wears Prada-esque boss or the friend who left poop on their carpet can sometimes make us feel as though we aren't alone.I WAS TOLD THERE'D BE CAKE isn't that different from the hundreds of other autobiographical essays out there, but Sloane Crosley does have a style that is all her own.
Maybe I just missed the punch lines (I think these essays were meant to be humorous), but my overwhelming response to these essays was "So what?" Apparently, they are based upon Ms. Crosley's life--I hate to break it to her, but I just don't think her life has been that interesting.
The final affront was an apparent joke in her less-than-humorous essay about a possible move to Australia (thank goodness for us Australians she never made it there)...after the teenage Ms. Crosley's plans for moving to Australia are dashed, she observes that "My Australian dreams had disappeared into the night like a baby in a dingo's jaw (72)." I'm sorry.
She can make offensive comments about Australians all she likes--we probably deserve it.
I found that each essay had, hovering in the background, an exquisite sadness. An aching. To belong, to have belonged. A desire to not fuck up despite a penchant for fucking up. This book may be, on the surface, a collection of humorous essays; but a ghost, called Lost Opportunities, hovers beneath that glassy surface, knocking. Longing to breathe. Longing to breathe the air of a wider, gentler world and to drop the burden of the "Lost". To be found.
I gave this book a snarky review a few years ago that several GoodReads readers liked, but since reading the whole book (and maturing maybe just a tiny bit), I feel much more generous toward Crosley and her brand of innocently naughty humor.
The blurb on the cover compares her to David Sedaris. The blurb on the back compares her to Dorothy Parker. These people are out of their fucking minds. Sloane Crosley has a lot of interesting anecdotes in her arsenal, but she doesn't know how to tell them without boring the shit out of you.
It's hard not to blame David Sedaris for Sloane Crosley.
I mean to use "blame" lightly - I don't think Sloane Crosley is a thing anyone should necessary be sorry for, but by popularizing the whole "my family is weird in a way that is eccentric but essentially without serious conflict" genre of self-data mining, he's opened the door for people like Crosley to tell very similar stories about their OWN harmless strangeness.I suppose this is essentially livejournal lit - as a blog, Crosley would be pretty great.
Easy to read, funny in patches, not at all special.
I was eager for a helping of Crosley's Cake after quickly burning through her very latest essay collection - Look Alive Out There, released in spring 2018 - earlier in the week while away on a brief vacation. I also really enjoyed the pleasant and similarly-styled Cake, which chronologically is her first book from back in 2008. Crosley again discusses various and unrelated topics - summer camp experiences, her first job after college, being a member of a wedding party, a health concern - with spot-on humor and occasional insight in fifteen distinct compositions. Seconds, please. (ha-ha)
couldn’t have been more wrong.when this book was first purchased, i was very pleased to read the pony story again.
i imagined with horror the looks your family would give, when stumbling across your plastic pony corral in the kitchen drawer.chapter 2 and three were some of the most unappealing collections of vowels and consonants i have read in ages.
frankly, your book bored me so much, that after three chapters, i put it down and decided to forget about it, altogether.something like a year has gone past.
each story waddles back and forth like a drunken semi-retarded penguin, straying from topic to topic in a shoot from the hip manner..
Further, I knew there was a generation gap when she started waxing nostalgic about video games in the excerpt entitled "Bring Your Machete To Work Day." And I didn't quite know how to take the proclamation: [I] "find people who publicly strive to make the world a better place to be moderately annoying." I feel I should have been more on board with her sense of humor by 117 pages into the book where this appears.
My guess is that she's going to get better and better.Bottom line: Good writing, mildly humorous, nothing new for baby-boomers, but probably great for Gen X'ers and those who follow .
Oh man, this book was so much fun.
Great, great little rants on the hell of being a bridesmaid, the shame of locking yourself out of your apartment (in your pajamas!
Did I mention these essays are deliciously fun?
I have no idea if this would be fun for someone with totally different life experiences.
The other thing I discovered while reading this (rediscovered, honestly, as I do every time I read essays) is that I am soooo much easier on essays than I am on short stories.
Essays though?
I just really like essays, and I really like Sloane, and I really liked this book.
None of the stories were particularly funny or interesting.
Reading the book was very much like meeting someone that all of your friends like and you've heard about this person non-stop and then you meet them and they're not particularly funny or interesting.
At first you try to like them as much as everyoen else does but then you just say "Sorry, I don't see what everyone else sees." Some of the early essays are mildly amusing in that bloggy sort of way but I really lost patience for her with the wedding story.
Crosley has a good voice, but I just didn't see the magic that other essayists - like the ubiquitous but amazing David Sedaris - bring to their books.
If you're the sort of person who likes easy breezy books for the beach, and you have this on hand as you're venturing out for a weekend in the Hamptons, you won't be disappointed with this one...or maybe if you're on a plane and just want something to pass the time...but in terms of a legitimate "good read," you should go back to Amazon and order something else.
Sloane Crosley isn't the reason I dislike most creative nonfiction, but she writes from the same sense of smallness that leaves me as a reader thinking, so what?
So, you collect plastic ponies, so you've lost your wallet and had it returned a bunch of times, so you were a maid of honor and a jerk to your friend, so you almost were sick but just ate too much spinach instead, who cares?What bothers me about creative nonfiction/the personal narrative which we are teaching college freshmen across the country is how generic it is, how it has become distilled into some meaningless cross between a Seinfeld observation and a blog post.
Look at me, this is ironic and obscure, did you ever notice.On the other hand, I've read essays from this book because I don't want to think.
A series of essays that are sometimes entertaining. Some are funny, some...not so much. But, it's short, so...
Funny. Funny. Funny.
The nice thing about a collection of essays is that you can read one, put the book down, and come back to it later, and not really have to remember what you read before.
Even if I hadn't been stuck on a plane for 6 hours, I probably would have read most of Sloan Crosley's essays in one sitting.
They're funny and a little sad, and easy to relate to.
I couldn't put the book down, and frankly, I didn't want to.
Thanks Sloan Crosley, for making my six hour flight to Boston (in the middle seat, no less) that much more enjoyable.
It's true that to enjoy "I Was Told There'd Be Cake," you have to be in Sloane Crosley's target audience, and it's true that her target audience is a fairly small group.
I know Sloane Crosley's experiences because I basically lived them.
Le chapeau you have to make me, please." "Christmas in July," her story about her bizarre summer camp...
"The Pony Problem" made me laugh so hard that I had to interrupt my husband's football watching to read him the end.
And my absolute favorite of Sloane's witty creations - "Bring-Your-Machete-To-Work-Day," about the wonderful, brilliant Oregon Trail game.
Unfortunately, I couldn't choke out the words to the story because I was laughing too hard.
He spends quite a bit of energy trying to get rid of it because he doesn't want the person waiting outside the bathroom to think he left it.) The first time I read it, I was on a plane and I laughed so hard people began to stare.
Like Sedaris, Crosley has a chapter about poop too.
Unlike Sedaris,Crosley asks the reader to accept a pretty far-fetched tale about her finding a turd on the carpet of her bathroom after a dinner party.
I don't know what kind of people she spends time with, but I'm fairly confident that none of my friends would ever poop on my carpet.
The power of the blurb: I probably wouldn't have even picked up the book in the store without them, but those are some pretty big shoes to fill, and I think my expectations were a little high.
I enjoyed the book a lot.
I'll probably pick up anything else she writes.
So some of the essays I wasn't so into.
She has whole essays about being a vegetarian and bearing the brunt of jokes and obnoxious questions, growing up with a boy's name of dubious cultural origin, being very wary of weddings, and having a rare blood disease.
I learned nothing from this book.
However, after reading her book about our shared lives of relative privilege I feel as though I was raised in Wonder Bread world with not so much as a dash of Arby's sauce.
Most her essays left me shrugging, "Who cares?" In the past, I have enjoyed reading essayist with backgrounds similar to my own.
I take comfort in familiar themes and chuckle over clever turns of phrase.
Usually, I learn a word or two.
Usually, I feel enlightened.
Barring enlightenment, I usually at least have a chuckle.
Unfortunately, the book didn’t come with cake, and it was poorer for it.
While I admired some of the sharp prose, I felt that I was reading a weird cross of The Devil Wears Prada (and all the other young-woman-just-out-of-college-finding-her-way-in-NYC novels) and David Sedaris: memoir-type essays written by a woman in her late 20’s in NYC who works menial jobs in publishing.
Although she gives an entertaining spin to her selfishness, this is not someone I’d want to spend time with in real life, and so I felt increasingly distanced as I went through the essays.
I just read it while I was PMS-ing, overly emotional, and wracked with job-related stress, but I suspect that other, sane, normal readers would take home the same impression: mediocre NYC-female memoir essays, with all the elements of teen struggle you haven't gotten over yet, roommates, apartments, jobs, bosses, the city, parents.
Struggling with recipes and dinner parties, trying to be friendly with friends from high school you don't talk to anymore, satanic evil bosses, fellow bridesmaids, your friends' idiot boyfriends, all while trying to find your voice and your way in the world.
