https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/845386.Journal_of_a_Solitude
“Am I too old to acquire the knack for happiness?” she wonders.I’ve been a full-time freelance writer for nearly a year now (and prone to melancholy for much longer), so I can certainly relate to Sarton’s descriptions of both the loneliness and the exhilarating freedom of the writer’s life: “People who have regular jobs can have no idea of just this problem of ordering a day that has no pattern imposed on it from without.” She wisely notes the necessity of both isolation and community for any creative spirit – “a balance between the need to become oneself and to give of oneself.” I took inspiration from her assertion that being a writer is a noble endeavor, a means of “creating the soul” afresh; “Each day, and the living of it, has to be a conscious creation.”My library copy is bristling with red Post-it flags; I found lines that grabbed me on nearly every third page.
Does anything in nature despair except man? September 15thI feel inadequate. I have made an open place, a place for meditation. What if I cannot find myself inside it?For a long time now, every meeting with another human being has been a collision. I feel too much, sense too much, am exhausted by the reverberations after even the simplest conversation. But the deep collision is and has been with my unregenerate, tormenting, and tormented self. I have written every poem, every novel, for the sam
Deep down there was understanding, not of the facts of our lives so much as of our essential natures.September 20th“There is something demoralizing about watching two people get more and more crazy about each other, especially when you are the only extra person in the room.
It's like watching Paris from an express caboose heading in the opposite direction—every second the city gets smaller and smaller, only you feel it's really you getting smaller and smaller and lonelier and lonelier, rushing away from all those lights and excitement at about a million miles an hour.” P.September 22ndI am losing the ability to hold a conversation with people.
My prior knowledge of May Sarton was limited and picked up on her via Aubrey and the 500 great books by women; many thanks Aubrey.One of the things I really enjoyed about the journal were her descriptions of the natural world, most especially of her garden and the flowers and creatures in it.
Flowers and their scent were clearly very important to Sarton;"The garden is growth and change and that means loss as well as constant new treasures to make up for a few disasters."“A gray day .
I have now spent 3 months reading Sarton's journal of a year of her life in Nelson, New Hampshire, a journal which reflects her love of the old colonial home and the vast gardens she had cultivated there, her nightly skirmishes with local wildlife who wanted home access (raccoon, feral cats), the neighbors who tended to her land and road, her flowers and pets, her many friends, acquaintances and above all, perhaps, her writing.
(loc 2045)And she writes in her final entry of this journal on September 30,I begin to have intimations, now, of a return to some deep self that has been too absorbed and too battered to function for a long time.
This book, Journal of a Solitude is said to be her best.This memoir includes almost daily entries of her life for the span of one year (1972-1973).
The title is about her preference to be alone when she writes poetry, the literature form she likes best.
In the book, she mentioned about her visitors too like my favorite Virginia Woolf (also a lesbian) and other writers whose names just don't ring a bell.
In fact, I did not know anything about May Sarton until this book.
Sarton writes: "It is the loneliest dying and the loneliest death I ever heard of.
Sarton's writing amazes me. It's not everyone who can say, "Hey, I'm going to shut myself in a house for a really long time and write about watering my plants and my depression, and it's going to be really beautiful and interesting." But Sarton makes it happen. The eloquence and introspection that makes up this book is absolutely fascinating.
Solitude: “Whatever peace I know, rests in the natural world, in feeling myself a part of it.” Her prose is the embodiment of solitude: slow-paced, thought provoking.How can what seems like nonsensical talk, be so transformative?
Read this book while you’re alone, and you feel the aloneness, you smell the flowers, sense the pain.
Virginia Woolf is called upon a few times in this narrative of part-feminine discourse (she was one of Sarton's writing idols).
I read and I know that it is necessary, to require solitude at my age, just as it is necessary, for Sarton to still ponder, seek, and wander at her age.
I read this book over a couple of weeks, as journal entries need to be read a few at a time for me in order to maintain freshness.
May Sarton lived alone for a year in her house in New Hampshire, but it was not exactly in solitude.
She maintained a pretty full schedule of speaking engagements, vacations, and visits with friends, not to mention all of the visitors she entertained, and the neighbors she enjoyed.
Her journal entries over the year were very honest and full of insights.
I'll be reading more, beginning with "Plant Dreaming Deep" which concerns the time before 1973 when this one was written.
She began writing poetry at age twelve, she also wrote novels and later in life a children's book.
When she started this journal which was written over the period of a year she was battling depression and examing different relationships in her life.
If you enjoy solitude, nature, flowers and deep insight I encourage you to read it.
On a personal note I began journaling in 2001 because I needed an outlet for all I was feeling after the terroist attacks.
I also write poetry which began in 1998 after my Dad died unexpectedly.
I enjoy times of solitude to get centered.
The author's fixation on flowers and fluffy critters, coupled with her intense depressive streak, results in a journal that often reads like Mary Engelbreit having a bad day.
But the deep collision is and has been with my unregenerate, tormenting, and tormented self," she writes and man, do I hear her on that), her struggles with rage, and her need to question and examine her experiences.
While I didn't have the deep soul connection with this book that I wanted and expected to have, it's an inspiring study in one intensely sensitive person's efforts to brave worlds outer and inner and chronicle her experiences.
For a book with "solitude" in the title, a lot of her friends sure come over.
A friend lent me this book many months ago, but last week the timing was finally right to read it, and I'm so glad that I waited for the right time, when I could sit and be quiet with the book.
The journal was one of those experiences of reading someone who is writing your experience.
I have too many quotes to write them here, but here is a key observation:"One must believe that private dilemmas are, if deeply examined, universal, and so, if expressed, have a human value beyond the private." p.
107And finally, this bit of hopeful observation:"perhaps we write toward what we will become from where we are." p.
I like the fact that Sarton calls her journal "a" solitude.
I have gone on retreat several times lately and each time there is something different I need to work on.
We are in different places in history and in our own lives.
The question of course is will I be able to do it now?Much of this journal includes thoughts about women's places in the world.
Something we still struggle with, but times have changed.
I recommend this book to anyone interested in writing, women or recent history.
It was the first paragraph, included in a review, that made me go and order the book: "I am here alone for the first time in weeks to take up my 'real' life again at last.
That is what is strange—that friends, even passionate love,are not my real life, unless there is time alone in which to explore what is happening or what has happened...
A central thought of Sarton's journal: that being in a difficult place is maybe part of being a poet or writer, or just anyone who is open to the world.
I never thought I could enjoy the diary of a woman who likes to garden.
Of course, that's not what the book is 'about' and I found this a very enjoyable trip into the mind of a person who I'd probably never get along with in real life.
Sarton has an ability to make simple observations about her life seem like major revelations on the nature of all lives.
I have picked up several of her other books and will read those after I've gotten a few more horror, SF and weird books under my belt.
A very quiet book, and I enjoyed it immensely.
From the title alone, knowing nothing of May Sarton, I was expecting pristine and Zen-like wisdom, stones rubbed smooth by the cleansing waters of solitude.
In fact, I am reminded of Adrienne Rich's "Storm Warnings." In that poem the speaker draws the curtains on the storm (the one outside but more importantly the interior one): "These are the things we have learned to do / Who live in troubled regions." Certainly no stranger to "troubled regions," Sarton never seems to manage the curtains, another thing I love her for.Needless to say, my May Sarton crush will almost certainly propel me to 
People who love to read know the extreme pleasure derived from reading passages that express precisely your own thoughts.
I found passages like that over and over in this book.
I am the kind of reader who likes to clip along usually and get the gist of what a writer is saying but not with this book, the writing is too good.
Give me to be in your presence, God, even though I know it only as absence.""But in our effete American civilization few people are willing to pay the price of anything--a garden, children, a good marriage, a work of art.
This book was absolutely wonderful, and I recently re-read it because I love the descriptive and picturesque prose that Eleanor Marie Sarton, pen name was May Sarton, uses throughout the book.
I had not heard of her; I just happened to pick this book up at the library and checked it out because I thought it sounded quite poetic for a journal.
I am so glad that I did; I have read books my whole life, and know the names and works of many authors, but I cannot figure out why I had never heard of May Sarton, until serendipity played a role.
In Journal of a Solitude she writes openly about her mood swings and attacks of rage and I give her kudos for her honesty, but it does make her hard to like.
It is not that I can't sympathize with that - it just makes for a hard read.Between all the bad moods were real gems though - Sarton's observations about nature and her garden, her thoughts about the role of women and marriage, and of course her musings about solitude.
She consciously observes everything: from daily, physical minutia, (she is a gardener,) to her own psychological motivations, to spiritual implications.
By observing with honesty, and sharing her weaknesses, she gives the reader permission to do the same.
Nothing gets shelved (stuffed away) in her unconscious.
For many summers I lived down the road from May Sarton, in New Hampshire, but I had never read anything by her.
A loner, highly sensitive and brilliant, she uses words as a surgeon uses a knife, to cut away what doesn't serve."I hate small talk with a passionate hatred.
It is always expensive and I will not waste my time."She's not everyone's read.
First read when I was in my late twenties and living in the northwoods of Minnesota.
I loved it, then, relating particularly to the author's struggle to find a balance between her inner/writer self and her outer/professional/social self.
This time around, I was the same age as the author was when she wrote it, and I found her rants frustrating.
I didn't want her to be dealing with the issues I associate late adolesnce.
I was also disappointed that she didn't really seem to be writing about solitude at all, but about a manic-depressive kind of bouncing between her interior life in her rural home and her exterior life.
May Sarton is getting on in her years and living with her choices to live a mostly solitary existence and write. Her reflections on her work, art, and her garden are more than enough to make me want to go out and find the other things she has written.
There are several quotes that do, in fact, describe me - "How Unconscious we are, often, that giving may actually be asking, asking at the very least for attention", her long discussions on the difficulty women, particularly married women, face in bring their creative self to the world ("It is harder than it used to be because standards of housekeeping and house-decorating have become pretentious and competitive" - history supports her here), and "I feel cluttered when there is no time to analyze experience."However, I am put off by her temper - early in the book, she throws a screaming tantrum at a friend over a casual comment about the flowers in her house not being perfect.
Honest and unflinching, as all her writings are, this journal of one year, 1972-3, in the life of May Sarton is both extremely engaging and very enlightening.
As she approaches 60, she looks back at some key events and encounters in her life – she met Virginia Woolf amongst others – and explores the creative process.
The book became a key text in women’s studies and has influenced generations of feminists.
Compelling and thought-provoking, I very much enjoyed this journal and look forward to reading more from May Sarton.
There is much to like about May Sarton's journals.
This journal covers a year of solitude that reads like an examination of conscience.
For instance: "...
I am an impossible creature, set apart by a temperament I have never learned to use as it could be used, thrown off by a word, a glance, a rainy day, or one drink too many.
She is lovely because of her honesty, and her honesty and vulnerability as a diarist makes one want to read more, because she's trustworthy.(
Ms. Sarton courageously shares a year of her life with the reader (warts and all).
Some of my favorite entries include her description of a visit to her friend Anne Thorp on Greenings Island who I am sure is the inspiration for her novel, "The Magnificent Spinster" (which I loved).
There are moving entries about her mother, her struggles with maintaining the creative spark, her many friendships and, of course, her need for solitude and how it relates to all aspects of her life.
I've read a few collections of correspondence of favorite authors but this is the first time I've read a journal like this.
I like journals from people that observe and honor nature. They have the ability to calm and open our eyes to our surroundings. Not only does May do that she also exposes personal issues, some which we can all relate to. Very enjoyable.
a beautiful poetic journey within, punctuated by the ever changing nature, the idiosyncrasies of the seasons, the ebb and flow of depression, gardening, house-making, and self-discovery through old age, the tension between what's publicly expected and what one really wants.
this kind of solitude, i understand, is part of the art of emptying oneself of clutter and proceeding to get full of oneself, in the best possible way.
the size of this book is misleading: it is best appreciated in slow sips.
i rushed through it because of my own aggravating melancholia, my hate for winter; will copy excerpts to remember.
- I am here alone for the first time in weeks, to take up my "real" life again at last.
That is what is strange - that friends, even passionate love, are not my real life unless there is time alone in which to explore and to discover what is happening or has happened.
–– All aspiring writers say these things: "I will not compromise and write a best seller!" - as if they could!
It takes a good storyteller to write a best seller, and a good craftsman.
She makes many good points about solitude and dealing with one's shadow self,the longing for something more (with and without others,) as well as the acceptance that the extra space one has been granted, is also a gift.
While she seeks a family of friends, she also needs her alone time or she feels frazzled and out of sorts.
Her insight is keen and beautifully stated in so many ways: "When I talk about solitude, I am really talking about making space for that intense, hungry face at the window, that starved cat, starved person.
