https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/750470.Futility
Nina rivela ad Andrej Andreevič di non averlo mai amato e a quest'ultimo non resta che vederla partire dal molo, mentre Nikolaj Vasil'evič, con tutto il resto della ciurma, rimane in città sognando ancora di recuperare le sue miniere.La prima parte del romanzo, nella quale cominciamo a comporre il complicato puzzle composto dai Bursanov e sodali, è intrisa, come si può facilmente arguire, di rimandi alla letteratura russa che Gerhardie amava di più.
In one of the fine moments, and the book is a string of fine moments, in the middle of Memoirs of a Polyglot Gerhardie describes in his wonderfully suspect and egocentric voice something of what I'm trying to describe: Just as every political party considers itself a "centre-party" threatened by revolutionaries on the left and reactionaries on the right, so every young writer tends to think his talent is compounded from the choicest ingredients.
Reading these novels (for I would say Memoirs of a Polyglot classifies as such as much as the others do) is like being in a house of mirrors, your pleasure deriving from a constant, and rather discomforting, blurring of the conventions of the real and the fantastic, of life and art.
“’How long ago it seems,’ she said at last.
And we drag along, and try to patch it up...but it won’t.
She takes some small comfort from living her life as a life, not like a character in a novel, but wicked old William Gerhardi has denied her even that.
Largely autobiographical, the novel is set against the background of the Russian revolution and its long drawn-out aftermath which Gerhardi – brought up in St Petersburg – experienced at first hand.
Otherwise Futility ended up being rather repetitive and a little dull.I have a copy of Gerhardi's Doom on my shelves.
Life in Russia before, during, and after the Revolution, seen through the eyes of a rather self-absorbed young Anglo gent.
The chaotic nature of the "White" cause in the Civil War (endless splits and coups and a plethora of "All Russia" governments competing) is portrayed, and the general uselessness of the forces available to it.
There is a great opportunity for an ambitious young Arab-American novelist to reboot this story around Iraq or Libya in the early 21st century.The parallels between Gerhardie and Vladimir Nabokov and their fictions have also been noticed before - see Brigid Brophy's essay "The Eye Of A Penholder" (reprinted in "Baroque'N'Roll"), which links "Futility" to Nabokov's "Glory".
This story features an enormous British passenger liner called the SS Titan, which, deemed to be unsinkable, carries an insufficient number of lifeboats.
On a voyage in the month of April, the Titan hits an iceberg and sinks in the North Atlantic, resulting in the loss of almost everyone on board.
There are some similarities to the real-life disaster of the RMS Titanic.
The book was published fourteen years before the actual Titanic, carrying an insufficient number of lifeboats, hit an iceberg on the night of April 15, 1912 and sank to the bottom of the North Atlantic.
One of the interesting things about this novel is how well the comic vignettes and the lyrical passages fit together - perhaps because there is no real flow to the narrative and no sense of composition.
On the strength of this first novel, Waugh is much the greater artist, but Gerhardie is refreshing to read for breaking so much old ground in a completely new way.
Another interesting thing is the striking difference in the characterisation of male and female characters.
An interesting question is to what extent the sisters' behaviour - particularly Nina's - is influenced by a negative animus.
Что странно, поскольку вышел в 1922-м и не полюбил его только ленивый, ибо в числе поклонников «Тщеты» — Кэтрин Мэнсфилд, Эдит Уортон, Бернард Шо, Грэм Грин, Ивлин Уо, Ч.
Запутанные отношения в семье Бурсановых — одновременно и экзерсис в исследованиях «загадочной русской души», и метафора череды русских революций, и тонкая пародия на великую русскую литературу.Роман лукав, остроумен, пронзителен и, как говорила про него Мэнсфилд, «дышит».
С книжкой Кесселя, изданной по-русски, сравнивать его не имеет смысла, ибо Кессель — проходная писанина, а Джерхарди — натуральный шедевр, хотя оба автора в означенный период во Владивостоке присутствовали, и даже если б интервенции союзников не случилось, еле бы следовало организовать только для того, чтобы «Тщета» была написана.
I picked up _Futility_ at a library sale - a book by an unknown (to me) author with a glowing preface by Edith Wharton.
What tremendous luck - I'm utterly in love.
This wonderful, warm, dazzling book reminds me so much of another little gem that takes place in revolutionary Russia, Penelope Fitzgerald's_ The Beginning of Spring_.
Unlike Fitzgerald, who somehow managed to "get" Russia without having been there, Gerhardie is an Englishman who grew up there, one of those weird cosmopolitan creatures who are at home everywhere and can "translate" the Russian soul for the West.
"There are honest men in Russia, and there are clever men in Russia; but there are no honest clever men in Russia. And if there are, they're probably heavy drinkers."
"It is a consolation to think there are other useless people in the world besides ourselves...."Bah! Found no interest in any of the characters. And as for this being funny in any way ... ugh. That appears to get repeated in reviews, but I just don't see it.
Futility'yle, güvendiğimiz bir yayınevi olan Melville House'un The Neversink Library adlı dizisi sayesinde tanşıtık.
Edith Wharton, Katherine Mansfield, H.G. Wells ve Graham Greene gibi isimlerin övgüleriyle dolu bir kitabı, Evelyn Waugh'nun "Ben yetenekliyim ama o bir dahi," dediği yazarı insan ister istemez merak ediyor tabii.
William Gerhardie Rusya'da doğup büyüyen, 20'lerinde üniversite için İngiltere'ye gidip savaş sırasında Rusya'da görev yapan bir İngiliz.
Futility'nin anakarakteri de bu açıdan Gerhardie'yle aynı özellikleri taşıyor.
Bir İngiliz tarafından yazılmış bir Rus romanı olarak da nitelendirilebilir.
Muhteşem bir eser, kitabı bitirdikten sonra özlem duyulan karakterler...
Gerhardie'nin diğer eserlerini de merakla okuyacağız.
Our hero, Andrei, is a British-Russian who meets three sisters in St Petersburg, before the First World War. He falls in love with one of the sisters, Nina, and in doing so, becomes involved with the fraught domestic arrangements of Nina's father, Nikolai.
Nikolai owns gold mines in Siberia.
In addition, there are sundry impecunious aristocrats, who pop up or in the case of Prince Kniaz, never leave.Andrei followed the family, as they embark on an absurd amount of travel as Nikolai's tries to regain his mines; there are wars and revolutions; wonderfully comic admirals, generals and British diplomats.
Amusing summary of and homage to Russian literature and Russian life, set right at the turning point of 1917 - feels like a translation, until you realize it was written in English, by an Englishman, though one who was raised in Russia (and is probably of German descent).
Despite his assertion that "the 'I' of this book is not me", it seems likely he shared the sensation of being divided between cultures that the narrator describes.
Had higher hopes for this--a sort of lampoon of Chekhov.
At times very funny indeed, but the punch lines around the story and characters (basically of the slow dissolving of a middle-class Russian family's fortunes in the run-up of the revolution) repeated and grew tedious.
The details of that era (gramophones, fox trots, sumptuous locomotive interiors, port wine) and the parody of Slavic bluntness were enough to keep me slogging through the bits of literary Siberia Gerhardie wanders into.
Makes sense the author was also a playwright--at times, scenes were too blocked and staged and left little room to the allow the reader to configure his own imagined staging.
Satire and observations on Russia during the revolution by an Englishman who was stationed there with the British Military Mission. Early humor involving an assortment of characters who all depend on a man waiting for his mine to come in gives way to darker reporting on waves of Russian Army disasters around Vladivostok. Intermittently very funny, but not as satisfying in the last third, where his never-resolved love story mimics the never-resolved story of the patriarch waiting for someone to solves his problems.
Written just a few years after the events recounted, Futility is able to deal with the classes an issues involved in the Russian civil war with insight and humor that would soon become rare. The tragic fate of the overthrown nobility had not, in 1922, yet fully unfold d, nor had the tragic end of the revolutionary euphoria on the other side. Perhaps for these reasons, reading the book now makes it poignant in ways the author had not intended.
una famiglia russa vista attraverso gli occhi di un amico- la rivoluzione, tre sorelle bellissime, la siberia (non da deportati), il parassitismo e i mille espedienti per vivere. la futilità, per l'appunto- nonostante l'incalzare della storia. vorticoso e frivolo.
I didn't get it. Perhaps too cerebral for me.
Tiene un puñado de frases para el bronce. El resto: Algunos momentos divertidos, una trama confusa, diálogos mal hilvanados, un fallido homenaje a la mejor literatura rusa.
The most Russian sensibility I've ever encountered in a novel.
This guy gets negged so hard he keeps traveling to Russia just so see her. Impressive
