https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2472016.Mister_Roberts
The hero, Mr. Roberts, spends his time on board trying to leave the safety of his cargo transport's milk-runs, filing one transfer request after another, seeking the action of a war-ship.
The author, Thomas Heggens, was discovered drowned in his bathroom in 1949, an apparent suicide, despite, or perhaps because of, the huge financial success of the book and play.The Reluctant was a cargo ship engaged to carry trucks and toothpaste on a regular run "from Tedium to Apathy and back; about five days each way.
I wondered if she had also read Mister Roberts.
Saw the movies, read the books.
Would most like to revisit Heggen's words, vague-est memory.***Amused by punchline of copied review"KIRKUS REVIEWEpisodes aboard the Reluctant, a Navy cargo ship, three years out in the Pacific, where the dreary, unheroic life is measured only by small legends, petty interests, and miniature crises,-where the only claim to any esprit de corps lies in Lt. Roberts, who commands respect and liking among men submerged by boredom.
Most of the play is staged on the deck of the ship with a few scenes in the cabin shared by Lt. AJG Roberts and Ensign Pulver.
Mister Roberts is basically the serious naval officer who wants nothing more than to be transferred to a ship that's in the thick of the battle where the rest of the personal are bored but glad to be assigned where they are.
Ensign Pulver is the main character that is full of shenanigans and he gives the play most of the fun and laughter.
Loved the movie, loved the play and now I love this book, which everything else was based on. Obviously there is much more detail in here than in the other two sources. And it was those details that made this so incredible of a read.
But her agonizingly uneventful months in the back-washes of the Pacific form the background for one of the most authentic, most moving, and at the same time, most humorous of novels…Lieutenant Roberts is Cargo Officer and First Lieutenant.
Well, there were a lot of things you could say automatically and without thought, but they were all the wrong things; and just this once, just this one war, anyhow, let us try to say true things about the dead.
But, thought Roberts, if they did not live equally, they are every one equally dead; and you could say this affirmative thing of all: that in a war of terrifying consequence and overwhelming agony, they participated one hundred per cent.
Try to imagine anyone writing an ode to the war dead like this today: The dead, Mr Roberts mused.
Well, there were a lot of things you could say automatically and without thought, but they were all the wrong things; and just this once, just this one war, anyhow, let us try to say true things about the dead.
But, thought Roberts, if they did not live equally, they are evey one equally dead; and you could say this affirmative thing of all; that in a war of terrifying consequence and overwhelming agony, they participated one hundred per cent.
Mister Roberts was one of a slew of books published by rising American authors immediately after the end of World War II.
These young men had served in the war and drew from their experiences in the conflict as an initial introduction to their work.
For young writer Thomas Heggen it brought instant fame and praise, and later personal tragedy.
The book is ok, the story is original (one of the greatest battles in war can be the fight against boredom and monotony), however, the resulting movie is more interesting than the book.
If not for the popularity of the movie, this book would be forgotten.
The book is a lot less light hearted than the movie adaptation. The story is rather dated and not terribly interesting. The captain isn't as over the top as Cagney portrayed him in the movie and in the book Doug Roberts is in his mid 20's, Hollywood wanted star power and cast Henry Fonda who was 50 at that time to portray Doug Roberts.
Tom Heggen's novel "Mister Roberts," first published to instant acclaim in 1946 as the country caught its collective breath after World War II, is a charming collection of vignettes based on his experiences aboard USS Virgo (AKA-20) transiting around the beautiful, sleepy, steamy harbors of the South Pacific Islands during the war.
After the war, Thomas Heggen returned to work at Reader's Digest, while helping craft his novel (1946), then play (1948) into worldwide smashes.
After the war, as noted in the afterward of the version I read, USS Virgo 'made numerous trips between the West Coast and American Pacific bases.
The author Thomas Heggen a young naval officer served on various ships and one of them was a ship like the USS Reluctant as described in the book.
I felt a kinship since I too served in the US Navy but after WWII and my ships were destroyers or as they are referred to in this book tin cans.
Then for a few hours you can live what the sailors on the United States Ship USS Reluctant during WWII as told to you by the author Thomas Heggen; who served in the US Navy during that period of World History.
Lol,,,I seem to be re-reading many of the books from my younger years. This was one of my favourite books. The characters are fantastic. Lt Doug Roberts, his detractor in the Captain and the wannabe Dougs. It will take you through a wide variety of emotions but it will put a smile on your face when you think about the relationships between the characters.
Great book. Gives an over view of being on a ship in the Navy during WW II. And shows some of the ship mates and officers and the state of their mental health and challenges while on board.
Book #3 in the shelf experimentI found Mister Roberts to be a surprisingly interesting story that dealt with life on a Navy supply ship at the tail end of WWII.
Contrary to the battles being waged elsewhere, the crew of the USS Reluctant (yeah, absurb name) couldn't live a more sedate life, traveling from friendly island to island, delivering goods and not much else.
The book consists of ten or so chapters that pretty much break down into individual short stories about certain crew members and their experiences.
After having loved the movie growing up I was curious when I found that Mr. Roberts had begun life as a book.
I was even more curious when I found that it was the author's one published novel and that he died before celebrating his 30th birthday and before the stage adaptation starring Henry Fonda made it big.
(hide spoiler)]The book is perhaps not as great as the movie adaptation but then young, ex-GI Heggen didn't have the talents of Fonda, Lemon and Cagney to bring his characters their additional embellishments.
The book is perhaps not as great as the movie adaptation but then young, ex-GI Heggen didn't have the talents of Fonda, Lemon and Cagney to bring his characters their additional embellishments.
What the book does have is authenticity and I'd recommend it to anyone who's considering spending time in the service.
Life aboard ship is not always the harrowing adventure tale that we see in movies and read about in books.
By all means, if you liked the play or the movie, then check out the book, but don't expect too much more depth than what made it into celluloid.
Loving this funny, touching film is what prompted me to read the book, which is also wry and comical.
It doesn't quite have the heart of the movie, but, as a short and mostly breezy read, it doesn't disappoint either.
I just had to hold my nose when women were mentioned.
It's hard to read something in which most of the male characters feel that women have some duty to be young and pretty, willing and available, yet remain, impossibly, innocently virginal.
But as a book about war, and the boredom and tedium in war, Mister Roberts succeeds.
This is the novel the classic movie (James Cagney, Henry Fonda, Jack Lemon) was based on. It captures the tedium and oppressive heat and life aboard a little ship in a big ocean.My dad started his naval career in the earl 50s as a cook on one of these little supply ships in the Pacific, and he had shipmates who'd been there since the War. He said this is pretty darned close to the real thing...including the palm tree!
i just started this book a couple days ago and i haven't goten that far but the crew isn't like the rest of the navy crews by how they act and dress. the captin really doesn't act like a normal captin he doesn't know what kind of power he has over the crew. So the crew can kinda push him around. and mister roberts is the most respected officer.
Funny and poignant, Mr. Roberts was a real treat to read. More a collection of short stories than a novel in the classic sense. The all too real story tells of the trials and trivialities surrounding a crew onboard a cargo ship during WWII. The movie is much altered from the book, but both have their own merits.
My dad was a Navy man who loves this book and the movie that followed. Once I read the book, it was an instant favorite. The story is filled with humor and insights into life on a ship in the Pacific far from the action of WWII. It's a book I go back to a lot just to read a few pages, which always lifts me into a great mood.
Loved the book. Loved the movie. Originally published as short stories in the Atlantic Monthly, this book is about a group of men on the Navy cargo ship, the Reluctant. You read about their antics and trials while in Europe and the Pacific World War II is being played out without them. The movie starred Henry Fonda, James Cagney and Jack Lemmon.
I actually saw the movie first with Henry Fonda, James Cagney and Jack Lemmon. I thought the movie was great and the book did not disappoint either. As with anyone who's seen the movie before the book, you picture in your mind the actors from the movie with the characters in the book. A great read and to me it reminded me just a bit of M.A.S.H in its style of comedy.
A series of comic vignettes aboard a Navy cargo ship in the Pacific during WWII. The book is different than the play and movie in that it doesn't focus solely on the characters of Mister Roberts and Ensign Pulver.
This marks the third time I've read this one. First time early 60's an adventure story with a sad ending. Late 70's as a Navy Vet it was a real world story, Finally yesterday 2013 it was just a story of people serviving a difficult job. Definitly worth reading a clasic.
Wonderful book. Funny, heartbreaking and true. If you haven't read, go get it now and do so right away.
1st edition cpl.
DON'T SEE THE MOVIE UNLESS YOU DIG JIMMY CAGNEY. THIS NOVEL WILL LIVE FOREVER!
As much as I enjoyed the "light reading," I doubt if I would have read the book had I not seen the movie and, in retrospect, I doubt f I would have seen the movie if I read the book first.
read between fall 1974 & spring 1975
