https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/862018.The_Sky_Phantom
Great Nancy Drew story as she hunts down hijackers... or rather skyjackers!
So like, this book was pretty much nonsense.
I loved Nancy Drew as a kid, and I'd like to revisit some others, because I suspect this one is just kind of wacky.
I appreciated the degree to which Nancy is just automatically the best at everything - no really, I know that's silly but for the target demo I think it's fine.
She's also super chill about all her near-death experiences and pretty much relaxed about her friend's relationship crisis.
I don't know, I have feelings.
I don't regret reading this, it was just so super weird.
Another fun Nancy Drew mystery. This time Nancy is taking flying lessons when she discovers something wonky is going on. Nancy and friends solve another mystery, but this one isn't as good as many of the others.
It's a mystery!" So in this novel, Nancy's compassion and empathy actually seem more confined/limited to me than in most of the novels.Because of the lack of any sort of useful clues to support most of Nancy's hunches, the jumbled and overflowing plot that tries to cram in details about both the horse ranch and the flying school, and the lack of any realistic sense of compassion or pressing anxiety for the kidnapping victim in the story, I just don't feel that The Sky Phantom matches up to mist of the rest of the yellow spine Nancy Drew novels.
Man, I loved Nancy Drew books when I was younger, but this was not one I read back then, so I didn't even have nostalgia to really help me through it. I bought this one from a used book store a while back, unable to resist the call of the yellow cover. But this book was extremely jumbled and disorganized. The only fun part was reading out particularly stilted bits of dialogue to Micah. I kinda wanna go back and read some of the other books now, I am 99℅ sure they were better than this one...
Ranchers (though not as sexy as in book five) and piloting (Nancy is a skilled pilot, of course).
It's as if the ghostwriter drug out the story until she realized "oh crap, it's chapter 20, gotta end this thing!"A completely recycled vignette from Book 5 where an enemy puts a bur under Nancy's saddle and causes her horse to buck while she's riding it.The first instance I've never seen where the author refers to an earlier book's events.
Bess stays with Dave, of course.Nobody loses consciousness, but Nancy and Ned have to gnaw their way out of burlap sacks.
Nancy almost showed some human compassion instead of focusing solely on solving the mystery.
For a while I thought we might lose Bess to a cowboy.
She is thinking about getting married, but this time it wasn't to Dave, but a cowboy she meets.
Dave hasn't asked her to marry him yet; The mystery is pretty weak.
And of course Ned and the fellows have to make an appearance and ruin the girls' fun.
They show up at the end so they can protect the girls and help solve the mystery.
Ned is a bit concerned about Dave possibly getting hurt if Bess dumps him.
Nancy could have used a bit of tact when talking about the dead pony..... I actually liked this book - it was different from the others. Maybe because it never took place in River Heights and her family was never involved. and.... horrors! the marriage word was used! ;-)
This however is one of the more violent and tragic books from the series, as a horse is shot in the leg and dies, and Nancy is shot at while out riding!Nancy Drew is taking airplane flying lessons from Excello to improve her piloting skills, and one day notices a cloud that seems to be magnetic!
Nancy and her friends search for clues, avoid mean cowboy Ben Rall, go on pony rides with cowboys Range and Chuck, and even uncover a hidden message depicting "Revolutionary Bomb Site, Under Great Cloud!" Turns out, Roger Paine was kidnapped by a gang and his plane was being used to manipulate the magnetic cloud!
OK,I wanted to like this book because, well all the Nancy Drews are usually pretty good.
But this one probably the worst Nancy Drew out of the originals series (the books with the yellow spine), because it dosen't make any sense at all!
So suddenly, at the start of the book, she is taking flying lessons.
And characters pop out of nowhere!
I am sorry to say that sadly this time Carolyn Keene did not live up to her reputation in this book--the other books?
well yes, mostly.
But this one was a big plop.
I give this book one star.
I found out early on that the higher the series numbers go, the worse Nancy Drew books would be.
Not all are completely hopeless; but I guess I'm now reading them through the eyes of a grown-up who, although still likes reading Nancy Drew, becomes less enthused with how the mystery and its solution was written.The Sky Phantom, though, is one of those occasional ones in the series where the villain was not quite outright obvious (even if the apparent accomplice was).
Nancy remains the perfect Mary Sue and the others bask in the brilliance of her person.
I read this book for the Nancy Drew/Hardy Boys category in my local library's 2018 book challenge. My rating of 1 star probably isn't very accurate since it was hardly written for a geriatric reader such as myself, though I was an avid ND fan about, oh, 60 years ago. Tastes change! The style, vocabulary, conversations and plot really haven't stood the test of time very well, in my opinion.
I enjoyed the adventures and the mystery overall. I just felt like there were some things that weren't concluded well, such as the motive of the villains. I feel like it could have had more closure. But overall, it was an enjoyable read.
Love these for a little escapism
I didn't really care for this one at all. Seemed like the story was just quickly put together, and it wasn't very engaging to the reader.
“The Sky Phantom” was a very mysterious and unexpected Nancy Drew Mystery. More intrigue and friendship issues than any of the others I’ve read. Exciting and dastardly!
The book was good. But in my opinion making the cloud stay in one place seemed impossible. But nevertheless it was good.
The Sky Phantom  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 53rd book in the  Nancy Drew  series. While vacationing on a ranch in the Midwest with her friends, Nancy Drew investigates a mysterious magnetic cloud, searches for a hijacked plane, and hunts a horse thief. I’ve always been a voracious reader. So, as a child, one of my favorite things about summer was the frequent trips to our local library, which was less than a mile from our house. Like most young girls of a certain
While vacationing on a ranch in the Midwest with her friends, Nancy Drew investigates a mysterious magnetic cloud, searches for a hijacked plane, and hunts a horse thief.
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
Nancy Drew has to be one of my favorite book writers.
She is one of my favorite book writers because in every book I read of hers she always has some sort of mysterious thing going on.
And in the book they see a plane flying over them and they get down and get into cover and the guys flying the plane (Roger Paine) notices them and gets away.The book "The Sky Phantom" is hard to read when you first start but once you get really into the book you start to read faster and you start to understand it more.
My favorite part is when they see the plane fly over them and they think it is a sky phantom and they freak out and get into cover.
Every so often I like to go back and read something that I remember fondly from my childhood and see if it holds up. Sadly, this one does not. The dialogue is really stilted, Bess seems really out of character in her infatuation with Chuck, and then the plot itself is kind of forgotten in places and then winds up very quickly as if the author realized that she was at chapter 19 and had to finish things up.
I love a great Nancy Drew mystery, but this one disappointed me in some ways. While, as usual, I found it hard to put down, the pace of the book was almost too fast for me. There were some elements of mystery to it but again, the story moved so quickly and with few clues to help me out that by the end I was left confused and with a few questions. Not one of my favourite books of the series but that doesn't make me love them less!
This book was good. The flying aspect was fun and it was funny to have Bess get a little crazy when it came to boys, more so than usual. The only reason I gave it only 3 stars is because a horse gets hurt and has to be put down. I felt that that part could have been left out. If I had read this as a child it greatly would have upset me.
One of the less enjoyable Nancy Drew books. I thought Nancy, Bess, and George were written as less capable characters in this book, which was rather annoying. This mystery was also quite a bit darker than Nancy Drew mysteries usually are, which wasn't necessarily bad, but some things seemed out of place.
Ok, another Nancy Drew Mystery I just didn't "buy". I wondered at the alleged science behind the mysterious cloud and the accuracy of the flying descriptions. Bess' love dilemma was new as was George and Nancy's reactions. This did include some description of action that involved Nancy's friends but not her which I always enjoy.
While Nancy Drew takes flying lessons at Excello Flying School, Bess, George, and Nancy stay at a nearby ranch and a mystery involving a phantom pilot and a kidnapping captures her attention. Added to this, the rancher's prized palomino, Major, is stolen.
Another typical Nancy Drew caper ... this one didn't have so many hair-raising situations, and I didn't really "get" the solution to the mystery, so I didn't think it was as well written as many of the others.
Sometimes Nancy Drew books are just a little too convenient; things just kind of fall into her lap. I was also frustrated that some of the personal interaction in the story was short changed and unresolved.
Even while Nancy Drew is on vacation she is learning new skills. She is taking flying lessons. And of course mysteries follow her wherever she goes.I didn't like this book as much as some of he others I have read because it didn't seem as realistic.
I love the author of all the Nancy Drew books because she writes in a fashion where it is easy to understand yet she adds suspense and a lot of detail, so I can easily picture it in my head, as if it were a movie.
196 starsPeppo read to me
