https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/331344.Being_Peace
Yesterday, when I walked through the woods the leaves were falling.For the first time that I could ever remember I actually heard them fall.They fell like paper rain on the forest floor.Maybe Mother Earth had heard it too.I just know though, that she weeps too much these daysand probably doesn't hear anything anymore.Maybe like me, she is only hearing her own pain.And I just wish that I could breathe in peace and breathe out peace again.written by Jessica Slade, 2017
thich nhat hanh, vietnamese poet, peace activist, and buddhist monk, has written dozens of books, many that incorporate the related themes of non-violence and zen buddhism.
nhat hanh focuses his book on the subjects of suffering, perception, non-duality, interbeing, meditation, and peace work, offering a stream of fluid, remarkably apt analogies to illustrate his teachings.
nhat hanh's introduction of the fourteen mindfulness trainings, if practiced widely, could have beneficial effects individually and on society as a whole.
Even though some references are a little dated (Cold War), this book is entirely relevant now: in order to achieve peace, we each have to become peaceful. We can't wait for peace to happen, we must live it.
He recently had a stroke at the age of about 90 and was seriously ill, but survived.This book is a collection of talks he gave to peacemakers and meditation students in 1985.He tells us of the importance of walking meditation and smiling, and offers a short poem we can recite from time to time, while breathing and smiling.“Breathing in, I calm my bodyBreathing out, I smile.Dwelling in the present momentI know this is a wonderful moment.”“When we sit down peacefully, breathing and smiling, with awareness, we are our true selves, we have sovereignty over ourselves.”Meditation helps us to return to our true self.
;)Words that impacted me in this book:If we are peaceful, if we are happy, we can blossom like a flower, and everyone in our family, our entire society, will benefit from our peace.To meditate well, we have to SMILE a lot.Because of your smile, you make life more beautiful.To remind ourselves to relax…set aside some time for a retreat, a day of MINDFULNESS.We can practice smiling.Breathing in, I calm my body.Breathing out, I smile.Dwelling in the present moment I know this is a wonderful moment.A smile makes you master of yourself.We have thousands of things which help us be away from ourselves.
The more we understand, the easier it is for us to have compassion and love.
Understanding is the source of love.
Understanding is love itself.
Thich Nhat Hanh writes in a simple and beautiful way and introduces us the teachings of Buddhism and how to use these teachings and guidelines in our daily lives.
He educates us on how to be more peaceful and work for peace in order to make our society more livable; a society where people are aware of themselves and all beings.
This is the most basic kind of peace work.
This book, recommended by my then therapist, skewed my vision for the better. Instead of seeing black & white, I started seeing and understanding all the shades of grey. The Middle Way. A little hokey, but whatever, it works if you want it to.
A book to keep.
We need people who can sit still and be able to smile, who can walk peacefully.”“In our former lives, we were trees… This isn't just Buddhist theory; it's science.
Accepting the Verdict“The way you speak, the kind of understanding, the kind of language you use, should not turn people off.”"I vow to develop understanding in order to be able to love and to live in harmony with people, animals, plants, and minerals.”“Aware of the suffering created by fanaticism and intolerance, we are determined not to be idolatrous about or bound to any doctrine, theory, or ideology, even Buddhist ones.
1st Read: Worth reading several times over. I have direction on how to deepen my Buddha practice. I will need to read this book numerous times. Fortunately, such a short book, only 115 pages.2nd Read: I will read this book repeatedly and practice a bit here and a bit here my Buddha nature until it becomes my usual nature.
Like most Thich Nhat Hanh books, this is a very sweet and very simple book. Good advice. Not complicated. Just clear and direct. Maybe too simple on a couple of points -- not sure. He seems to say that we won't change things by demonstrating. Not sure about that. But being peaceful, clearheaded and calm while planning and participating in a demonstration seems like a good idea.
In which I learned that Thich Nhat Hanh's way of offering Buddhism to westerners is one of those simple-but-difficult, deep ideas. Just breathe and smile.
When you catch yourself thinking, just smile and return to listening to your breathing.'We have to smile a lot in order to be able to meditate.'(Thich Nhat Hanh)With practice you will gain control and silence the chattering conscious mind and in this silence you will find a sense of peace.
Now just sit peacefully in this silence but with a sense of awake anticipation and one day profound thoughts will rise unbidden to the surface of your mind like bubbles of oxygen in a lake and all the while the sense of peace will grow.Back to Thich Nhat Hanh; 'When we are in touch with our true mind, the source of understanding and compassion will spring out.''One smile, one breath (taken in awareness) should be for the benefit of the whole day, not just for that moment.
2. Caring and understanding 3.living community( Sangha).When we understand, care and live in harmony ,we are entrusted as buddha like the seed entrusted in the earth.3.feeling and perception:Our feelings like anger, pleasure etc fluctuate and move around.the mantra is being aware of our state and not creating the fallacious division of observer and the object.
Heart of practice;Meditation doesn't mean leaving the world and going to a special place of peace.
The practice of meditation if done correctly, transforms the individual in everyday life.5.working for peace:Are we causing disorder in world?By using lot of paper, consuming too much meat etc.
In the book, Hanh uses the philosophy behind Buddhism in order to explore the ideas behind living in happiness and how to achieve true peace.
It stresses the importance of allowing happiness to be present in your life, and how to truly be present and not let moments slip away.I am not Buddhist, but for me it was still very interesting to learn about the peaceful way of life in the eyes of a Zen master, and what the religion means for him and other Buddhist people.

Not as much of a favorite as Mindfulness in Plain English or Full Catastrophe Living, but still very good (and no doubt this is the direction those other books would take if they hadn't been so Westernized).
I agree with a lot of what Hanh says in terms of making mindfulness and loving compassion part of a daily practice that's not confined to a meditation space, and also what he says about the interconnectedness of living things.
Another issue - truth becomes a fluid rather than a static thing with Hanh.
Once as an individual you've reached a conclusion, if you accept that the moral truth of it is fluid, how do you legislate?
Yeah, one must be good, the book says.
Yeah, you shouldn't get angry and value others' opinion as much as yours, the book says.
doesn't talk about that.At times, I felt like the author started presenting a brochure on Buddhism or offering applications to join some sort of cult.
While I was able to understand what the author intended to convey, he certainly sounded very immature, naive and grossly inept with words, while trying to convey that.
No. They are different.Before taking it out for the journey, you must know that the car and you, are the same.
I got so much out of it the first time through, and I have a feeling I will get more out of every re-read.
I haven't read much about Buddhism, so I didn't start this book with a lot of preconceived notions or expectations.
I certainly read this book at the right time for me, and cannot wait to read it again.This book is a collection of talks given by Thich Nhat Hahn in the 80s, and he speaks simply, beautifully, and with a knowledge and compassion that amazes.
There should be more people in the world like Thich Nhat Hahn, and more people in the world trying to be peace.
In order to achieve peace, we must be peace.
If we are to change the world, he explains, we need to begin with ourselves, and awaken that eternal part of us where true peace resides - our own Buddha nature.
His straight forward writing style helps a person to realise how easy this awakening can actually be.
He explains that with inner peace as the guide and criterion for all of our actions, we transform our way of living into one genuinely capable of bringing lasting peace into a troubled world.
The book also helps us with some basic understanding of Buddhism and meditation.
If the meek really do inherit the earth, many will owe their inheritance to the gentle teacher, Thich Nhat Hanh.
Thay (as he's called by those who love him) lovingly reminds us not to make ourselves battlefields upon which we wage war against our own anger.
Instead, we should recognize the anger as a manifestation of suffering.
Be gentle with ourselves and let our own compassionate awareness of our feelings transform our anger into peace and acceptance.
When we practice cultivating inner peace--and only when we cultivate inner peace--are we able to "wage" peace in our families, communities, and among nations.
Thich Nhat Hanh's "Being Peace" is an excellent book.
It contains a collection of teachings written by Nhat Hanh that cover typical Buddhist topics including (but not limited to) peace, consciousness, interbeing, meditation, love, understanding, and mindfulness.
The wisdom found throughout the book has the potential to awaken readers that have an open mind.
There is something about his writing style that makes for easy reading and his message seems to be absorbed subconsciously in my mind.
Having read other books by Nhat Hanh, I am happy to continue learning from his teachings and look forward to exploring more of his works.
Simply put, "let peace begin with me" and "let me begin with peace." I always find Thitch Nhat Hanh's writings to be simple, inspiring and refreshing.
His messages are so powerful that they stay with me, and I find myself coming back to them or realizing them in my daily life.
While he often references Buddhist teachings, his writings are about life, about love, about understanding.
The teachings and stories transcend Buddhism and offer simple ways that everyone in the world can find peace in their daily life.
And it's not hard, it doesn't take years - every day you can be peaceful.
Another soft book, by Hanh. I read "Living Buudha, Living Christ" first, then found this one.Hanh doesn't really say anything "new," mindfulness meditation and Buddhism have been around for centuries, we all know about them. He just suggests a nonconventional approach to daily life (I speak from our Western standpoint). As you read, you'll find yourself thinking, "I never thought of it that way, I think I should try that."Mindfulness meditation isn't a way out, it is a different way through. It's a thought process, not a ritual. And Hanh does a good job pointing out how to do it.
I've spent the last 3 days listening to the audio version of this book and felt peaceful and calm ever since.
Some of my most favourite quotes from the book:“For things to reveal themselves to us, we need to be ready to abandon our views about them.” “Do not say that I'll depart tomorrow because even today I still arrive.” “We have to be in the present time, because only the present is real, only in the present can we be alive.
We do not practice for the sake of the future, to be reborn in a paradise, but to be peace, to be compassion, to be joy right now.”
A great book! It's a collection of Thich Nhat Hanh's lectures that he gave to peaceworkers and meditation students during his tour of Buddhist centers in 1985. Among many things, he talks about walking meditation, sitting meditation, how our environment affects us and the manner in which we handle situations affects not only us, but those around us. Definitely a book that should be read several times throughout a lifetime...and should be given as a gift to others.
This book is about the practice of mindfulness and meditation to help oneself be in the world with understanding and compassion for self and others. I first read it in 1988 and it is just as cogent and helpful today as ever.
A beautiful, easy to understand reminder of the road to peace and what we can do to get there. Would recommend to anyone.
Hmm. It's funny to only give three stars to a book by someone who I think deserves 5+ stars for his actual work in the world...but I think I like Pema Chodron better, at least for easily accessible writings about embodying Buddhist ideals out in the messy real world.
It's not that this wasn't easy to read--it was--but felt a little toooooo easy at points.
Like, if you've never read anything about engaged Buddhism, here's a good starting point.
I still found it a thoughtful and warm review/introduction, and it did make me excited to read more of what he has to say in the future.
This is a simple read reminding us that we are all Buddhas. Being Peace reminded me, personally, my peace is part and parcel to everyone's peace. Topics include meditation, resolving conflicts, Feng shui, and world peace. Although the references are dated, this book is forever relevant. I found myself thinking about current events as Hanh spoke of past wars. He offers that one must understand, and be compassionate towards, both sides in order to resolve a problem. A quote from the last chapter: "understanding is the source of love. Understanding is love itself." Great quick read.
