https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/592657.Deliverance
The book was told entirely by him, not just the events that occurred following Ed and his friends’ preparation for their remote white-water adventure, but his thoughts about work (too much), his family (too little), and his feelings about life which bordered on the too philosophical.
The character descriptions were rather sketchy, but this is not a book so much about people’s lives, but how they deal with adversity.

The adventure takes a nasty turn for the travelers when they encounter two mountain men and soon the reader will be taken through narrations bursting with sheer rapids of violence, quest for survival, tragedy, moral dilemmas and transformation of civilized humans beings into their primal form of hunters.
To give a fair warning to those who want to read ‘Deliverance’ with out giving any of spoilers, I need to say that some of the scenes in the book are quite disturbing for even readers with a high threshold for descriptions of violence.One of the plus points that make the novel more engaging is the descriptions of the surroundings in which this pure adventure happens.
Only men would think it is a good idea to go canoeing into the jungle wilderness of Georgia.
If this novel were female driven it would have been about two pages long because no woman would stand for its sheer bravado-driven ridiculousness.
So four guys so canoeing in Georgia and things go wrong.
It is a novel about men but ultimately it is an ode to masculinity.
It lures the characters, and ultimately the reader, into this intense, sweaty, oppressive forest.
The lives of these men, their decisions whether they be just or not and, ultimately, their fates.
But, when, EVER, has the climax happened way BEFORE the last page?
It occurs, SPOILER!/whatever: at around page 200.
Then there's like 80 more pages (oh anticlimax supreme), & it seems like a wee uneven, especially for a tale that's not all that unconventional.
Ah, you and I can find this in the elusive "MEDIOCRELIT.-BEGETTING-UNFORGETTABLE-CINEMA" category next to Oscar winning "Ordinary People" (the Judith Guest novel is hella skipable and lame) and "Bridges of Madison County" (this is the lowest of the low) & "Up In the Air", as well as non-Oscar perennial favorite "I Know What You Did Last Summer"...
Wow. I've been talking about Deliverance to all my friends, who all roll their eyes at me, because I haven't seen the movie.
This was one of the best books I've read this year.
The banjo scene was beautifully written, and the rape is brutal in its simplicity.
I think that was the best quality of Deliverance - the simplicity.
Wikipedia tells me: "In 2008, Deliverance was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being 'culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant.'" One can hope that means they succeeded.
Al punto che, alla prima edizione, la traduzione italiana era Dove porta il fiume, per poi diventatare identica a quella del titolo del film nella versione italiana, Un tranquillo weekend di paura.La sceneggiatura è opera dello stesso Dickey, ed è eccellente: per esempio, sui titoli di testa, mentre scorrono immagini del lavoro per la diga, si sentono le voci dei quattro che parlano al bar e pianificano il viaggio in canoa: non li si vede che più tardi, già in macchina diretti al fiume, ma con poche battute iniziali fuori campo sono riassunte pagine e pagine del libro in modo magistrale, e il pistolotto macho di Lewis è reso molto più accettabile e condivisibile.
Deliverance is a book about wilderness and survival. Maybe, not the way you would generally imagine a wilderness -vs- survival meeting (no spoilers here) but none-the-less, survival in the truest sense. This novel was very well written, extremely fluent and flowing.
I am happy to report, though, that some license was taken with The Scene in the movie version as far as hillbilly lines are concerned, the lack of which made it just slightly more tolerable to read.
And it is a blessedly brief moment, which is strange considering it is like the only thing people seem to remember about the story.
(hide spoiler)]This is not just some Chainsaw Massacre style horror story about scary redneck survivalist types, though, but rather a redemptive (for some) tale of struggle and resilience and friendship and the indomitable human spirit and how some of the least likely people harbor vast reserves of untapped strength which would crash open if they would only push themselves a little and blah blah blah.
Will Patton's narration puts you on that river, in that tree sighting the arrow with one shot at survival and this gets my highest recommendation.
This is a quote from one of the most riveting scenes in the story, both sighting that arrow and getting in the position to be able to do just that, their lives depending on this very moment.
‘But mainly I was amazed at my situation.
Just rather dumbly amazed.
I put tension on the bowstring, and the arrow came back a little.
DELIVERANCE is a tremendous novel and river adventure from James Dickey. This is an American classic.
Poet Laureate James Dickey is interested in getting back to the basics, escaping from the plastic-wrapped safety of suburbia: his characters find that they are in no way equipped to handle it.I know Deliverance from the movie, and specifically from the only scene anyone remembers from the movie, which involves squealing like a pig.
In the second interpretation, men get in touch with reality and immediately cock it entirely up; their fear and incompetence lead them into the worst possible decisions at every turn, and they emerge criminals.Both are to some extent true.
Like many of you, I imagine, I have a simple rule: read the book, then see the movie.
But in a testament to the book, slowly they slipped away and the power of the page prevailed.The plot is well-known: four buddies embark on a canoe trip down the a river in rural Georgia before it is dammed for hydroelectric power.
She is wearing a towel and when it drops “she looked like someone who had come to womanhood in less than a minute.” The next morning, before embarks on this river trip, Ed and his wife make love.
:)This book is about 4 suburban men who spend the weekend river rafting and hunting deep within the mountains of Georgia.
I felt like I was right there, like I could feel the Cahulawassee River raging around the men whenever it felt like it.What a ride this book is, especially with the suspense it offers, and the superb way Dickey shows just how vulnerable we are to nature and the unknown, and how we're at the mercy of other people.
None of it is badly written, some of it is startlingly brilliant: the small waverings and clingings of the narrator,torn between wanting to savour this weekend in the wild as much as the macho friend he almost hero worships - but not quite - and realising that he belongs in a far more urban, domestic version of the world, however strong the temptation to fantasise about rugged survival might be.
His need for safety and escape, the extremes they drive him too, the moments of total focus, identification with his target, contempt for the weak, for his weakened friends.
4 homens de classe média , cansados da vida da cidade com todo seu stress e correria decidem ,para relaxar, descer de canoa o rio Atlanta , rio que leva o mesmo nome da cidade onde moram, mas acabam vivendo um grande pesadelo, com mortes e muito horror e com uma cena de um estrupo que me chocou! puro sadismo puro terror !Quem leu o livro vai saber o que estou falando.Um livro muito bom...nem parece que foi o primeiro livro de James Dickey, e nem parece que seu forte nos livros posteriores seria poesia.
The book is narrated by Ed Gentry after the fact, and his observations of his companions and the environment around him are sharp and resound with humanity.Besides the human characters in the text Mr. Dickey has written one of the great novels about Nature and its power.
Rarely have I read a book where the physical actions of the characters were etched into my mind and my body responded with the sense memory.
Dickey has made the physical battle for survival as real as I have come across in literature.Besides the survival element of the book, "Deliverance" also deals with the philosophical question of what makes us human and civilized.
The movie followed fairly closely to the book, so I knew where the plot was headed the whole time.
As a canoe trip that began as a break in life’s monotony quickly morphed into a struggle for survival, we can see how Ed changes and becomes someone he never imagined he could be.This book is a mixture of a thriller tinged with adventure, camaraderie, dread, and the horror that only an unexpected, unspeakable situation can inflict.
Author James Dickey’s portrayal of forced survival decisions is powerful and revealing, and is not a book to be missed.
Outside of my comfort zone Deliverance tells the story of four men closing in on middle age and looking for a little adventure take to the remote white waster river in the Georgia wilderness with two canoes.
The adventure turns to a nightmare and a struggle for survival.I honestly had never heard of this book and for me this was a challenge as I don't read adventure stories.
The characters are real and extremely well drawn and I really enjoyed reading the character of Ed and experiencing the journey through his eyes.
I just found out that it is also a movie so look forward to that now I have read the book.
The 'where' and the 'who' of this novel seem to be the most important aspects of the author's famous work.
The intense, visceral clash between "the people with nine fingers" and the alpha-males challenging themselves on Georgia's cavern of white water rapids couldn't have come to life anywhere but there.
And what happens on the river between the city-dwellers and country-kin is somehow believable because of the cultural differences.
I've been reading most of the night to find out what happens to the four men who come to the river to test their survival skills and leave civilization behind for a few days.
I get his point of view but he and I differ ultimately on what the story should mean.What makes the book work so well, regardless of my disagreements with Dickey, is the voice and the brain of Ed, the main character.
He may not be a very realistic character, I've certainly never encountered a man of his age with such acute understanding, but it works for the book.
And it's interesting to me that while the book and the film dared to depict a man as a victim of rape, that it's become so singular as the symbol of this in pop culture that you almost never see it elsewhere.
But film has rarely if ever captured the dark beauty of nature or the hopelessness of true tragedy and so it became time to place the story into the frame for which it was painted by its author.
James Dickey's novel is a haunted lyric, a trembling poem in homage to the blackness of the woods, the foaming malevolence of white water, the wretchedness of human depravity.
As a man, I have learned to love the woods and the waters that flow through them.
I enjoyed this book. From what I remember, I believe the made the movie pretty close to the book.I don't think the characters were very prepared and did not proceed with a lot of common sense, so it could be said that they sort of deserved the trouble they encountered.The biggest thing I took from this is how easy you can go from having a fairly normal life to having one with skeletons in your closet that will haunt you every day.
4.5 Stars. A weekend canoeing trip for four friends becomes a battle for survival in this suspenseful and action-packed adventure story set in the remote backwoods of Georgia. A real page-turner that makes me want to watch the movie again plus see and hear the dueling banjo scene. A must-read!
While I read it, I kept thinking to myself, "Why did none of my college professors ever force us to read this book?", all the while trying to ignore the simple fact that it would have been too much, too risque, too potentially offensive...
But the most well known part of this book is most definitely not the book.I personally think that the title belies how good this book is.
The author knows how to capture moments that at first might seem too small and too personal to be of any merit, certainly of recording and probably of remembering, but then, in doing just that, he also makes the reader recognize them.
Some impressions of the book four months after having read it:The book, unlike the film, is told completely from the perspective of ad agency studio artist Ed Gentry, and so there's a lot of stuff about his home, work, family and his lust for an artist's model that are completely missing from the film.
Ed is a main character in the film, for sure, but quite diminished in the screen version.The first encounter with hillbillies as the men set out on their adventure is far less ominous in the book than in the film.
But I was glad to have finally read the book after having seen the film so many times over the years.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/A weekend adventure for four middle-aged suburbanites quickly turns sour when a couple of strangers interrupt their canoe trip . . . With Spring just around the corner and the rumblings of “float trips” already being overheard in my corner of Redneckville, USA, I figured it was prime time to brush up on my camping knowledge so I can inform people what to truly expect on their weekend excursions. Even if you are like me and have never w
With Spring just around the corner and the rumblings of “float trips” already being overheard in my corner of Redneckville, USA, I figured it was prime time to brush up on my camping knowledge so I can inform people what to truly expect on their weekend excursions.
Even if you are like me and have never watched the film version of Deliverance, I bet a lot of you are familiar enough with a certain iconic scene that when you hear a particular little ditty
and then was terrified at what could possibly happen next because there was a lot of book left.
And what a lot of book there was.
You're a bibliophile who refuses to watch movies if they're based on books, you hate Burt Reynolds, or you have a fantasy wherein you're raped at gunpoint by country boys.
My point is, no one watches the movie and says to themselves, "I've gotta read this book!" If you have never heard of Deliverance, you should sublet your rock to the witness protection program.
Even if you haven't seen the movie or read the book you've heard about the scene concerning Bobby's anus and one redneck's probing demeanor.
This is what Dickey's writing is like.
Why did I read this book?
I haven’t seen the film adaptation of Deliverance; I’ve only heard of the infamous “squeal like a pig” scene.
Having just finished the book, the movie is next up on my Netflix queue, and I can only hope it’s half as good as the novel.
The book does what so many of the greats do: tell a highly entertaining, page-turning story while at the same time layering in ideas and themes one after the other without telling you what to think about them.
By the end of the read, after the rapid-fire story and ideas, you’re just as tired and exhilarated as the narrator.
A fantastic read.
Lots of thoughts. RTC soon.
