https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6442769-paper-towns
I need to start off with my criticism of John Green:1) Margo and Quentin are exactly the same people as Colin and Katherine and Miles and Alaska.
Having said this, I am in love with Quentin/Colin/Miles, and Margo/Alaska/Katherine is the girl I want to meet/aspire to someday be so I can't be too critical.
I think it's a creative premise that makes me want to read the book and is extremely well-executed, but if I don't believe in someone, I'm not going to fully feel for them or understand them.
However, however, I fucking loved this book.
(I love Green's use of periods).
Why so many good ratings for this book?
It could basically be called Looking for Margo, or Paper Alaska, because it's the same formula, again and again.
How many books can he write about an unbelievable teenager secretely loving another unbelievable teenager?
Everything was so absurd, Quentin's parents, the road trip, Ben, the black Santas.
The book that Quentin reads, Song of Myself, all the thoughts he had about it are so painfully forced down the reader's throat.
And Quentin is so self absorbed, bashing Ben when really he should take a good look at himself.
I enjoyed Paper Towns but did not love it as much as Johns other work. The ending was not as fulfilling as I hoped.3.5/5 stars Xx
"Nothing ever happens like you imagine it will," she says."But then again, if you don't imagine, nothing ever happens at all." I already said this in a status update but I am so glad I reread Paper Towns. I first read it years ago; back before I'd heard of vlogbrothers, back when John Green was only known by a handful of readers, way way back before The Fault in Our Stars. And I loved it. “It is so hard to leave—until you leave. And then it is the easiest goddamned thing in the world.” Then TFi
Then TFiOS happened and I began to question my feelings for John Green's writing.
It felt like a book that set out with a mission to be deep, clever, to deliver a multitude of messages, to prove that teenagers are quirky and intelligent.
Augustus, especially, seemed built around "intelligence" and "quirkiness" to the point that he didn't feel real; he felt like a caricature of a "philosophical teen".But coming back to Paper Towns made me realise that I hadn't changed.
In TFiOS, I felt like JG created caricatures.
and obviously, this isn't a horror novel, but i was reading this with so much apprehension, heading towards an uncertain ending, genuinely concerned for the characters.(view spoiler)[ seriously- that scene with the dead raccoon - my heart was in my throat the whole time, i kept thinking NO YOU ARE NOT GOING TO DO THIS SO EARLY IN THE BOOK!
but it was such a tense scene, i was turning each page with dread, and then i missed my subway stop, so thanks a lot, john green (hide spoiler)]i liked this even better than looking for alaska.
i thought looking for alaska was great, but those kids were a little too smarty-pants for me, while this book just sounds like actual smart kids talking.
*spoilers* It veers from an amusing and interesting start to the baffling obsession of Quentin in his quest to find the will-not-be-named-again girl after they had one night of vengeful fun.
I found myself wondering if this was seriously what this book was about after Quentin starts a desperate search for said girl who left home, is 18 (yes a legal adult) and has studiously ignored the crap out of him for 9 years apart from that one night!
That's all good and well, but, in future please do something more interesting with your great characters John Green, thank you.
Those included in the so-called “blindspots” quadrant.In this novel Paper Towns, John Green indirectly used Margo Roth Spiegelman for Quentine Jacobsen or simply Q to understand love and life and to know himself better as a person, as a man.
Who would have dared driving your parents’ car in the middle of the night, pushing it with your friend few meters away from the house so as not to awake them with the sound of the engine?
I applaud Green for creating a character like Margo that can rally boys to transform themselves into men without disregard to the pains of growing up.
I never thought that a middle-age man like me would still enjoy a YA book.
2/5 Stars ⭐ ⭐“What a treacherous thing to believe that a person is more than a person.”Oh boi.
This motherfucking book.
Let me talk to you about this book.
I HATED THE GUTS OUT OF IT.
I have never given this kind of low rating to a book, I guess it's time.
And I would have given it less stars but I gifted it half a start because of something I will talk about below.
Here's what I wrote when I started this book two days ago: I have heard the worst fucking things about this book.
This isn't the bo
Anyway, now let's start with the tea.Quentin Jacobsen has spent a lifetime loving the magnificently adventurous Margo Roth Spiegelman from afar.
Let's start with what I liked about this book, won't take much time- ????
When I read books which have been adapted into movies or tv shows I ALWAYS WATCH THEM.
NO MATTER IF I WANT TO RIP THE BOOK IN TWO I ALWAYS WATCH THE MOVIE OR THE TV SHOW THAT IS INSPIRED BY IT.
So, after hearing this, you will realize I didn't watch the movie because I liked the book, but because I always do.
I am a big fan of John Green but found this book plodding and boring.
I hated the Margo character and thought that Q was a big whiner.
His obsession with Margo, who he didn't really even know, was really annoying.
I realize that this was one of the messages of the book, that we all assign traits and "personalities" to people we hardly know, but it was still hard to take, page after page.
I still love John Green and his blog, still consider myself a "nerd fighter" and would give just about anything to see him in public, but can't give Paper Towns more than 2 stars.
And whilst this was okay in LFA, reading the same characters again was annoying!
I'm willing to bet all my money (which is not much) that John Green bases the male protagonist on himself, and that the female character is the type of character he fancied at school, and it sort of plays like he's the dorky, awkward girl in love with the popular, unattainable boy.
(hide spoiler)]The thing is, John Green is a good writer.
I used to watch YT clips of John and really liked him, so his books are a bit of a let down in comparison.
This book as the others by this author has the John Green theme:1.Awkward funny charismatic good looking fit main character who somehow is a looser.2.The hot popular girl who he is forever in love.3.A weird funny bestfriend who gets in trouble.4.Prom.5.Everything happening in the last 2 weeks of high school.6.Quotes that every teenage tumblr girl has in their blog description.7.Road trip8.Some meaningful ending when you re-think all your teenage years and wish that this would have happened to you.
Unexpected in many ways but still quite a ride!  THOSE UNREACHABLE PEDESTALS  Nothing ever happens like you imagine it will. This book definitely wasn’t what I expected but then again it surprised me in many ways, and I also made me think, so clearly this wasn’t a journey without a return.How well do we know the other people?How well do we know our neighbors?How well do we know our own close friends?How well do we know our first crush?I am not shocked if many readers wouldn’t enjoy this book, s
This book definitely wasn’t what I expected but then again it surprised me in many ways, and I also made me think, so clearly this wasn’t a journey without a return.How well do we know the other people?How well do we know our neighbors?How well do we know our own close friends?How well do we know our first crush?I am not shocked if many readers wouldn’t enjoy this book, since (without spoilers, don’t worry) it’s a love story like not one you may expected, but still hardly a bad one.
Margo Roth Spiegelman screams Manic Pixie Dream Girl from miles away, she’s whimsical and different and did I mention she’s better than you?
If I have to hear the term ‘honeybunny’ one more time, I’m going to set rabid bunnies loose on his ass.So basically, I liked the premise, but I couldn’t stand the character whom the entire book was about, and I didn’t want to read another sentence of Q worshipping Margo Roth Spiegelman in one way or another, connecting her to philosophical and poetic mumbo jumbo, and placing her on ten different pedestals.
I am not going to linger on the comparisons between those two because 1) I never liked Looking for Alaska, 2) I never even finished Looking for Alaska and 3) I thought this book was original enough not to find it some twin brother or sister.If you’ve previously read a John Green book, then you’re somewhat familiar with his writing style.
But still.Margo Roth Spiegelman disappears with clues behind so smart people can track her.
Eso consumía cada minuto de su existencia y lo hacía dejar de lado a sus amigos y otras cosas importantes.- El speech inspiracional-metafórico de Quentin al final del libro, de ventanas y espejos y cuerdas y todas esas cosas.
*avienta el libro por la ventana*- También me gustaron algunas otras cosas que dejaré bajo spoiler...
También los tres besos del final, y me agradó que Quentin tomara la iniciativa en eso.
Ya leí 4 libros de John Green (TFIOS, Alaska, Katherines, y este) y puedo entender porque todos dicen que siempre escribe "más de lo mismo".
If you liked Looking for Alaska and Abundance of Katherines, you will LOVE this book. I could NOT put it down. It's funny and mysterious and just so real. Definitely recommended.
"It's so hard to leave-until you leave. And then it is the easiest goddamned thing in the world...Leaving feels too good, once you leave." We all leave eventually. No matter who and what we are, or where we’re from, we will someday and somehow leave our comfort zones or the norm of our lives to find ourselves a place in this world. Some people take their time into actually doing it. They spent much time planning and scheming on how they should gloriously plow into life. There are some who tried
No matter who and what we are, or where we’re from, we will someday and somehow leave our comfort zones or the norm of our lives to find ourselves a place in this world.
Then, there are those who are used to having things come to them in a rush; and when it’s not fast enough they go for it instead… Such is Margo Roth Spiegelman and many other teenagers out there who cannot wait to be themselves without the restriction of the norm.
They are like the paper cut-outs Margo described, who boxed themselves inside this very peculiar thing called normal life.
This sort of read is off the beaten track for me, non-fantasy YA-ish literature.That said, it's amazingly well-written, and I enjoyed it immensely. John Green is an amazing author, and he writes with a delicacy I admire and envy. This book, was sweet and light and heartbreaking and true. It's the sort of book I'll never be able to write... Highly recommended for anyone.
Not that there was anything wrong with Margo, but they went years without talking and still he's obsessed.
Firstly, I think too much emphasis was put on prom and preparation for something that was really a non-event for the main characters in the end.
Also, finding her just seemed to get monotonous, but that might well be because I'm impatient so don't worry about that!Part 3:The final part of the book was love/hate.
I don't know I just finished the book and was like hmm that's the end?
I love how it ended solely because he keeps his characters genuine and true to themselves.
Naturally, the girl (Margo) that geeky Quentin's been in love with for years is someone he hasn't talked to since he was a child and someone who just so happens to be beautiful, mysterious and popular.
He only seemed obsessed with Margo because of her beauty and popularity — it was a very shallow love and that in turn made the whole driving force of the book (Quentin's desire to know/find the real Margo) come across as false and meaningless.Ben was irritating — especially when he kept calling girls 'hunnybunnies'.
I'd heard lots of good things about this novel, and even though I was more aware of John Green's penchant for using Manic Pixie Dream Girls in his books, I thought Alaska was at least done well in Looking For Alaska, as was Augustus (a rare male example) in The Fault in Our Stars.
6. The Manic Pixie Dream Girl/Boy isn't actually around for much of the novel, but his/her presence is felt by the characters even after s/he's gone.

Like the character in the book, the girl who I had this gigantic crush on and who was unintentionally making me a 'cooler' person just by spending time with her and her friends, she disappeared soon before I graduated from high school.
(hide spoiler)]I'm just saying this stuff to put it out there, that part of why I might have given this five stars is because a) it's a really good book but b) I could kind of read my own high school experiences in some of what happened.
I was disappointed in this book, especially since John Green is an author I've been meaning to read for some time now.
If I were a teenager (the novel's primary audience) reading this book, it's doubtful that I would have finished it.
Green failed to make me care.There were some interesting ideas sprinkled throughout (not that many of them, though), and some of the dialogue was entertaining (very much soon-to-be-dated teenspeak, as is often the case in YA lit), but I only actually liked one of the characters--Radar--and he wasn't the protagonist.
I think John Green's books are just never going to be my thing.He's really intelligent and a solid writer, but something about the way he writes "quirky" girls and the same general formula has just gotten really old for me.
Most of his characters annoy me and everything just seems unrealistic.
So my 1 star rating is for my DNF and complete lack of interest...
not for the quality of the book.
Like I think a ton of people will love this book and already do, so I'll just leave it with: I'm out.My blog | Tumblr | Twitter | Instagram
Going to stop this one at 25%... I'm just not able to get into it no matter how hard I try. Sigh. I love John Green books, but I'm not sure this is the one for me.
“Nothing ever happens like you imagine it will.” Well, I have to say, and please don’t hate me, that was a lot better than The Fault in Our Stars! I mean A LOT BETTER!I liked Quentin in this story, and it was noble the way he was so intent on finding Margo, alive, or dead or somewhere in-between. I did wonder what he was doing at times, he should have been studying, he should have been attending graduation, he should have been doing a lot of things, but instead he was so obsessed with finding M
I mean A LOT BETTER!I liked Quentin in this story, and it was noble the way he was so intent on finding Margo, alive, or dead or somewhere in-between.
I did wonder what he was doing at times, he should have been studying, he should have been attending graduation, he should have been doing a lot of things, but instead he was so obsessed with finding Margo!
(hide spoiler)]Anyway, I understand what people mean when they say that this book is a bit deeper than it seems on the surface, and I have to say that I liked the mystery, I thought the story was well-constructed, and that last part was really quite gripping!And that ending!
The more I think about this book the more I don't like it. I hated the ending. It made the entire book completely pointless. I do enjoy John Green's writing style, but I'm starting to get the feeling once you've read one of his books you've read them all.
So this is my second John Green book, and my second accidental first edition of one of his books too:The focus of this novel is a girl named Margo, and the MC’s (Quentin) obsession with her.
Before she goes missing she leaves clues for Quentin; following them ultimately changes his perspective on life in the last few weeks of his senior year.He—accompanied by his two best friends and some girl one is dating—skip graduation to drive from Florida to New York in search of Margo, only to have a bittersweet reunion.
I'm probably gonna get a lot of WTF responses for saying this book was so overrated. But, it really was. Over. Freaking. Rated. Sorry, not sorry.I don't understand the hype really. Guys are so dumb. Girls are so dumb. I think it tried too hard to be "deep", which just made me cringe a lot. This is the third John Green book I've read and maybe I let myself have too high of an expectation but, ugh. Margo is so needy and annoying. Q is stupidly naive. Ben is silly, which I liked. Razor is the saving grace.
