https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119073.The_Name_of_the_Rose
In which I, as reader, feel used.Yes, I'm almost certain Eco wrote this thing for the sole purpose of informing us of how knowledgeable he is of the finer points of monastic orders, book trivia, and medieval philosophy.
Knowing most would not put up with this crap for 500 pages, he wisely chose to interrupt his many digressions on poverty, heretics, whether or not Jesus laughed, Aristotle, architecture, etc, with an amateurish mystery plot.
You must often wait a chapter or two to get back to the mystery that drove you to read this thing in the first place.
إن كنت ستقرأ إسم الوردة فاترك خيالك وراءكفأنت بكل تأكيد لست بحاجة إليهفهنا ستجد دقائق الأشياء تتجلى 

Go ahead, throw your tomatoes at me!I know that in general this book is loved. Many count it amongst their favorites. I found it very dull and very boring. I had an extremely hard time staying interested in the story, which is weird for me and mystery/suspense stories. Never have I fought so hard to finish a book (in general, I do not DNF).So, if you couldn't stand it either, let me know that I am not alone.For those that loved it and are ready to launch rotten produce at me:
(A-) 84% | Very GoodNotes: A medieval Sherlock Holmes manages sectarian politics and investigates serial murders in a dense but effective read.
Eco crafts a novel that could be labeled as historical fiction, mystery, theology and philosophy, metafiction, a plot-boiler, literature, and many others - hell, there's even a bit of love and sex thrown in and of multiple sexual orientations!
He also leaves in plenty of untranslated Latin while having William conclude that true scholars must first master languages, and to key in on the idea that this book was a text found and translated by the character of Eco. He leaves some detective work for the reader, and I thank him for that.You really need to read this book.
I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted here illegally.)The CCLaP 100: In which I read a hundred so-called "classics" and then write reports on whether or not I think they deserve the labelBook #7: The Name of the Rose, by Umberto EcoThe story in a nutshell:In one of the more fascinating stories of how a novelist was first drawn to his profession, scholar Umberto Eco was actually an Italian history professor and Medieval expert for years before ever turning to creative writing; according to legend, it was his thrilling and exacting retelling of actual Dark Age stories that inspired his friends to keep urging him to write a novel based in those times, which he finally did in the late 1970s.
Surely Bernard will take over the question of the deaths at the Abbey and use them to strengthen the Pope's position that the Franciscan's philosophy of the poverty of Christ be eliminated by the Pope.William and Adso's exploration of the labyrinth to discover a missing book, the seeming motive for the murders, intensify.
As expected, Bernard announces he intends to inform the Pope that the Franciscan orders of Poverty should be prohibited.Nevertheless, William and Adso will solve the mystery of the labyrinth, the secret manuscript it contains, and the identity of the murderer.
At first glance, it may seem to be a book largely about obscure Fourteenth Century religious controversies, heresies and sects, with a murder mystery mixed in.
Just as Brother William of Baskerville guides the naïve Adso through the world of the monastery and the wider world of knowledge and reason, so Eco guides the reader through a story where few things are what they seem and everything can be read several ways.
At the time of its first publication, the parallels between the book's religious politics and modern manifestations of the same ways of thinking, including Cold War political expediency and terrorists like the Red Brigades, would have been obvious to Italian readers.
Forget Christopher Hitchens.
Away with that Richard Doggins guy.
For a truly penetrating look at religion and atheism, Umberto Eco, he da man.
The Name of the Rose is a profoundly nihilistic book.
It is ostensibly a book about a murder mystery: A man, a monk rather, Brother William, arrives with his assistant, Adso, at an abbey high in the Italian Alps.
A murder has been committed, and Brother William will apply reason and logic—a Sherlock avant la lettre—to deduce the murderer.
Umberto Eco stares in the abyss, and the abyss laughs mockingly back.
I was profoundly moved, depressed, and discombobulated.
الكتب لم توضع كي نؤمن بما تقوله ولكن كي نتحرّى فيها، لا يجب أن نتساءل أمام كتاب ماذا يقول ولكن ماذا يريد أن يقول.كي تعرف ما يقول كتاب يجب أن تقرأ كتبًا أخرى. هناك نوعان من الأعمال المرهقة؛ الأول أمقته بشدة وأشعر أثناء قراءته بملل لا ينتهي وتشتت يدفعني لاحتمالهما واجب إنهاء الكتاب. يعتصرني حتى النهاية، وقد أكون صبورة بالقدر الكافي لإنهائه وقد لا أفعل.والآخر رغم أنه مرهق لكنه ممتع (أو ربما هو ممتع لأنه مرهق، لا أدري)، يعتصر عقلي، يُربكني، وبشكل ما لا أستطيع تحديده ولا صياغته في أفكار ملموسة فور ا

293. Il nome della rosa = The Name of the Rose, Umberto EcoThe Name of the Rose (Italian: Il nome della rosa) is the 1980 debut novel by Italian author Umberto Eco. It is a historical murder mystery set in an Italian monastery, in the year 1327, an intellectual mystery combining semiotics in fiction, biblical analysis, medieval studies and literary theory. It was translated into English by William Weaver in 1983. عنوانها: آنک نام گل؛ نام گل سرخ؛ گل سرخ یا هر نام دیگر؛ نویسنده: اومبرتو اکو؛ تاریخ
عنوانها: آنک نام گل؛ نام گل سرخ؛ گل سرخ یا هر نام دیگر؛ نویسنده: اومبرتو اکو؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و هفتم ماه آگوست سال 2009 میلادیعنوان: نام گل سرخ؛ نویسنده: اومبرتو اکو؛ مترجم: رضا علیزاده؛ تهران، روزبه، 1391؛ در 880 ص؛ شابک: 9789643344344؛ با عنوان: آنک نام گل؛ خراسان رضوی، آهنگ قلم، روزنه، چاپ دوم 1394؛ در 864 ص؛ شابک: 9786005452761؛عنوان: نام گل سرخ؛ نویسنده: اومبرتو اکو؛ مترجم: شهرام طاهری؛ تهران، شباویز، 1365؛ در دو جلد؛ چاپ پنجم 1368؛شابک: 9645511275؛با عنوان: گل سرخ یا هر نام دیگر - چند گفتار و گفتگو از اومبرتو اکو؛ با ترجمه: مجتبی ویسی؛ تهران، اختران، 1386؛ در 160 ص؛ شابک: 9789648897197؛ نام گل سرخ یا آنک نام گل؛ نخستین رمان اومبرتو اکو نویسندهٔ ایتالیایی است که سال 1980 میلادی منتشر شد.
در سال 1986 میلادی بر اساس این رمان فیلمی به همین نام ساخته شد.
This is one humdinger of a book - medieval history, Gothic noir and classic whodunit rolled into one.
It's very slow - but taking your time to read it slowly provides rich dividends, IMO.
The story unfolds in the fashion of the classic mystery.
The secret, when it is revealed, is sufficiently shocking - and points a finger to a real historic puzzle.A word of advice: please don't watch the movie before you read the book.-----------------PS: Umberto Eco incidentally passed away the day I originally posted this review.
تحدث القصة خلال الفترة التي انتقلت فيها البابوية من موقعها التقليدي في إيطاليا إلى أفينيون، حينما قام ملك فرنسا بتعيين يوحنا الثاني والعشرون "بابا" على رأس الكنيسة الرومانية المقدسة.
- النسق الروائي: تبدأ القصة لدى وصول غوليالمو ، والوفاة المفاجئة لأحد الرهبان (القتل أم الانتحار) يتبعها وفاة راهب آخر مما يشيربوضوح إلى أن شخص في هذا الدير المنعزل هو القاتل.
تبدأ الجثث بالتراكم فيلحّ رئيس الدير على غوليالمو لكشف السر قبل وصول المبعوثين.
يستكشف غوليالمو وأدسو المتاهة لإكتشاف القاتل والدافع وراء هذا القتل المتكرر!- القراءات: هل هي رواية بظاهرها فقط؟ أيمكن القول انها قصة "أشخاص" و "دير" ولغز" وكفى؟!
Eco writes whole paragraphs in Latin and then leaves them untranslated, because he's such an awesome polyglot that chicks want to do him.
Eco likes to hear himself talk, too.
He wanted to perform God knows what magic with that horse, and, with his fractured Latin he called him 'tertius equi.' Which would be the u." "The u?" asked William, who had heard my prattle without paying much attention to it.
The words are carved over the mirror!" "Come," William said, "perhaps we are still in time to save a life!"
I had wanted to read The Name of the Rose for a long time, mostly because I enjoy both fiction and non-fiction about the Middle Ages, and also because of its importance as a piece of modern Italian literature.
In addition, much of the historical background read like a text-book, and not a novel.
For those who want to stick with a 500 page novel, The Name of the Rose can be quite rewarding.
I feel that I learned a lot about life in a medieval Italian monastery, and about the most important philosophical and religious concerns of the time.
اولاً کتابدار این کتابخونه، پیرمردی نابینا به نام «خورخه بورگوس»ـه، که هم از نظر نام و هم از نظر نابینایی و هم از نظر کتابخوار بودن، شبیه به بورخسه.ثانیاً کتابخونه در حقیقت استعاره ای از تمام جهانه، و تمام کتاب هایی که هیچ کس حتی اسم شون رو هم نشنیده، در اون وجود دارن.و سوم، معماری کتابخونه است، که شبیه کتابخانه بابل، از تعداد زیادی اتاق چند ضلعی تشکیل شده که از هر طرف با دالان هایی به هم متصلن.جدای از کتابخونه، پیرنگ اصلی داستان هم از یکی از داستان‌های بورخس به نام «مرگ و پرگار» اقتباس شده.
We shall not understand the history of men and of other times unless we ourselves are alive to the r


The figure of Jealously literally embodied in the monk who protects this great treasure, not simply with a castle's walls but inside a labyrinth library with a secret reading room.The form of the labyrinthine library is taken from Borges The Library of Babel and so the story proceeds with layers of references to surprise and amuse, however if you are in danger of floundering among them the trick is to find out what the hidden book at the centre of the library is all about and to keep that in mind for every reread.The relationship between truth, myth and invention is a theme that In the Name of the Rose shares with Foucaults Pendulum and Baudolino.
Surreptitiously sailing under the banner of what seems at first glance to be a traditional – and thus holding the promise of mass appeal - detective story, the recently deceased Italian semiotician clearly is reaching for a far more rich tapestry of genres – some tropes of which maintained, others slightly subverted - and themes.
Caspar David Friedrich: Abtei im Eichwald (1809-10)As subtext to this “basic” plot (which naturally can only end in the finding of the culprit) there lies a tale of medieval theological embattlement, with the abbey serving as a microcosm of the disarray observed in the outer world.
20 February 2016 - Umberto Eco died yesterday. Sad. May he rest in peace and may the gods be with him. I have read some rather amazing books this year but upon reflection this has to be the best. Apart from being a gothic thriller set in the late fourteenth century in a monastery, the structure and style of the work is exceptional. I really wish though that I had not seen the film with Sean Connery because every time Brother William of Baskerville philosophized or even asked a somewhat ordinary
20 February 2016 - Umberto Eco died yesterday.
Sad. May he rest in peace and may the gods be with him.
I have read some rather amazing books this year but upon reflection this has to be the best.
I really wish though that I had not seen the film with Sean Connery because every time Brother William of Baskerville philosophized or even asked a somewhat ordinary question, I could see Sean Connery in my mind's eye.A remarkable book and I could even see similarities with Sherlock Holmes and also Watson in relation to the novice, Adso of Melk.If you are looking for "an erudite murder mystery, which is not only a gripping story but also a brilliant exploration of medieval philosophy, history, theology and logic", then this book is definitely for you.I could not have chosen a better book to see out 2015.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Stat rosa pristina nomine: "The Name of the Rose" by Umberto Eco"Stat Rosa pristina nomine, nomina nuda tenemus"In "The Name of the Rose" by Umberto EcoAs a novelist Eco blends the style of Arthur Conan Doyle with that of Cervantes in a most intellectually entertaining way but with surprising heart, also.
It makes me keen to explore the labyrinth of his philosophy, which seems to exist in a realm of its own immune from the tedium and drudgery of most contemporary attempts at philosophy.
What more can I say about The Name of the Rose, besides adding that I loved it?  “Until then I had thought each book spoke of the things, human or divine, that lie outside books. Now I realized that not infrequently books speak of books: it is as if they spoke among themselves. In the light of this reflection, the library seemed all the more disturbing to me. It was then the place of a long, centuries-old murmuring, an imperceptible dialogue between one parchment and another, a living thing, a r
What more can I say about The Name of the Rose, besides adding that I loved it?
“Until then I had thought each book spoke of the things, human or divine, that lie outside books.
Now I realized that not infrequently books speak of books: it is as if they spoke among themselves.
It was then the place of a long, centuries-old murmuring, an imperceptible dialogue between one parchment and another, a living thing, a receptacle of powers not to be ruled by a human mind, a treasure of secrets emanated by many minds, surviving the death of those who had produced them or had been their conveyors.”

عمل أدبي يجمع بين الجريمة والفلسفة والتاريخ الدينيصراعات الطوائف الدينية والرغبة في احتكار الحقيقة وسلطة المعرفةالحوارات وإشارات النص والنقاشات الفلسفية مثيرة للتأمل والاهتمام أسلوب ايكو ممتع ومشوق وسلس رغم كثرة التفاصيل في بعض الأجزاءالرواية فيها الكثير من عالم اليوم
On my list of "All Time Favorite" novels.
This incredible book is the newest entry onto my list of favorite novels of all time.
Reading this book was a one of a kind literary experience that I highly recommend everyone experience.
The basic plot of the novel is an excellent murder mystery set in an Italian monastery during the 14th century and featuring an excellent "Sherlock Holmes" type character named William of Baskerville.
As good as the basic plot is, the real essence of the story is a exposition on the nature of philosophies, beliefs and the ability of man to obtain knowledge of universal truths.
Definitely one that I will re-read several times.
آنچه در این سطور میآید ممکن است ماجرای رمان را لو بدهد**نام گل سرخ را شاید بتوان اثری متلاطم متاثر از کلام نیچه داست.
شاهکار اومبرتو اکو، روایت تلاشی برای یافتن یک کتاب است.
تلاشی نافرجام و کشنده.
نیچه گفته بود که اگر هنر نبود حقیقت ما را میکشت.
نیچه از حقیقتی زهرآهگین و کشنده سخن میگوید.
اکو این حقیقت را در هیات یک کتاب به رشته تحریر درآورده است.
کتابی که زهرآگین و کشنده است و طالب حقیقت را به کام مرگ میکشاند.
به رغم آنکه صفحات کتاب آغشته به زهر و کشنده است، محتوای آن زندگیبخش و زلال است.
آنچه در این سطور می‌آید ممکن است ماجرای رمان را لو بدهد**نام گل سرخ را شاید بتوان اثری متلاطم متاثر از کلام نیچه داست.
شاهکار اومبرتو اکو، روایت تلاشی برای یافتن یک کتاب است.
اکو این حقیقت را در هیات یک کتاب به رشته تحریر درآورده است.
کتابی که زهرآگین و کشنده است و طالب حقیقت را به کام مرگ می‌کشاند.
کتاب کذایی، اثری از ارسطو درباره هنر است که به تعبیر نیچه خاصیتی شفابخش و دم مسیحایی دارد.
خبری ناگوار از یک دشمن حقیقت.آن‌گونه که از اکو انتظار می‌رود، نام گل سرخ کتابی درباره‌ی واژگان، نشانه‌ها و دلالت است.
This medieval tale doesn't feel like a contemporary book, which is the aim of most historical fictions.
As this story is a mystery at its heart, its disheartening to report that the best deducting by our heroic detective is carried out right when he and his Watson of a chronicler are setting foot in the abbey.
I like to consider the setting of the time and lieu crucial to the underpinnings of what's a simple story at its heart.
I know the title of the book doesn't refer to the peasant girl as the Rose.
Throughout these 40 pages he contradicts himself, and talks down to the reader too many times to count.Really my biggest frustration with “The Name of the Rose” is that it infrequently presents an interesting idea which if followed up would have made for intriguing reading.
Every time he presents an idea (philosophical, educational, religious or other) he makes the point in 2-3 pages and then goes on to lecture the reader for another 10-20 pages on the same point redundantly.
