https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152347.Milk_and_Honey
Milk and Honey is the 3rd book in the Peter Decker/Rina Lazarus mystery series.
In this installment Rina is living in New York with her two boys, but an event has occurred that has her come running to Los Angeles for a visit to Peter.
On the eve of Rina's visit, one of Peter's old army buddies is accused of rape.
At the same time while on the daily beat, Peter and his partner Marge Dunn encounter an abandoned two year old girl and take the case in order to find her family.
I am looking forward to Peter and Rina finally getting married and forming a blended family of their own.
You know, even for a cop Peter Decker's life is...fast moving.Even on a night drive in a quiet neighborhood things will seemingly search out Peter and draw him into tragic events.Here Peter comes across a blood spattered toddler wandering a residential neighborhood in the dead of night.
From there he gets drawn into a convoluted case that will strain his, Rina's and hopefully your sensibilities.
This is a good entry to the series and as with the others I've read (so far) I can recommend it.
There is a pert that leans on some, well some well trodden ground here but it doesn't take away from the story significantly.recommended.
I continued on to this book because I wanted some resolution in the romance plot, but this book convinced me that the author's treatment of gender and race is just so obnoxious that I'm not going to bother sticking around, and that any resolution in the romance plot would be unsatisfying to me anyway.Also, I was expecting that a series of mysteries known as the Peter Decker/Rina Lazarus mysteries would involve both characters in solving the mysteries.
Instead, it seems like Decker does all the solving, and Rina Lazarus serves as muse/love interest/source of conflict.
By this time I have discovered that the series is more about a man and a woman from two different cultures and with two different sets of emotional baggage who happen to love one another and are trying to build a life together than it is about "who done it?" Unlike like other stories that draw their energy from the heat of conflicting values and cultures, Faye Kellerman writes her stories about the couple's efforts to build an unique and powerful relationship from what is best in each of them.
The bonus that the series has offered me is a personalized look at the culture of Judaism.
That would be the scene with the eventually completely dropped character, Ozzie Crandal, whose introduction and inclusion in the middle of the book where the author apparently was going to have him be an incompetent lazy sheriff character, but for some reason, even though the murders were in his town, simply dropped out of the book, after a completely irrational hissy fit by Marge, Pete's partner, because Crandal called her, 'little lady', joking, while they were examining four rotting eviscerated bloated bodies crawling with maggots and bees and stinking of rotting meat smell with blood sprayed everywhere and thick on the floor.
This was my first Faye Kellerman book. It was okay but I probably will not read any of her other books based upon this read. Milk and Honey did not hold my interest as do many other mystery writers. To me, the characters were not believable and the plot trite. There were many incidents such as finding a lost child, officers being shot or injured, being attacked by swarms of bees and discovering multiple murders. However, none of these happenings really had much credibility. I felt the ending was predictable and was an average mystery at best.
The side story of Decker's past is more interesting than the actual case he is working on in this novel. Murder on a bee farm could be engrossing, but somehow it is just confusing and not a satisfying conclusion. I'm glad that I am reading these in order because I find the romance between Peter and Rina to be an interesting one, and I am enjoying the religious discussions that come up fascinating too.
4 stars🇺🇸
The early Peter Decker/Rina Lazarus novels are still the best of the lot. This one was a very tangled, very good mystery to work through, as well as getting to see the tension rachetting up between Peter and Rina in their ongoing, rather troubled, courtship.
Love these
More than two decades ago, I discovered the Peter Decker/Rina Lazarus detective crime novels in the library; and I think those books were what spurred me on to having a huge attraction to these pure police procedural reads.
The appearance of Abe Atwater, with whom Peter has a love/hate relationship because of the obvious shared history of their time in Vietnam, shows us a different side to Pete.I’ve always liked this book; especially how it’s totally realistic and there are no sicko weirdo villains in it.
Peter finds a blood-stained toddler playing in the dark of a residential area.
No one has reported a child missing and soon the police find out why.Meanwhile, Rina, who misses him dreadfully, comes for a visit.
The visit is complicated by the fact that Peter is helping Abel, an old army buddy, accused of rape.
Dealing with Abel awakens memories of Viet Nam that Peter would prefer would stay buried.Despite all the different storylines Ms Kellerman weaves them into a satisfactory ending to the third novel in the love story of Pete and Rina.
Well, this book was more appealing to me than the last in the series because the religious parts weren't quite so abundant and in my face.
I liked the story line and I was anxious to see the outcome which was discombobulated in the end.
The very first book that I read whose name escapes me really drew me to the characters, Decker and Rina, but I'm still not as much of a fan of these earliest books in the series.
I suppose they will lay the ground work but it's making it hard for me to stick with the series.
Two-haiku review:Old friend arrestedThen Decker finds little girlWith blood on pjsParallel casesOne theme: uncontrolled angerLook at Decker's past
Detective Pete Decker finds a little girl on patrol one night, and in his quest to find out who she is and who she belongs to, uncovers a grisly quadruple murder scene.This is a tough review to write.
The overall mystery involving the little girl and the murders was good, and the only real reason I kept listening.
If that's the case, given the fact that the Pete/Rina series is still being published, are all the books set in the early 90s?
Do Pete and Rina age in real time, or do they stay about where they are in this book while the world around them changes?
Ambivalent about Rina because her personality couldn't be more opposite mine and thought Decker was a good lead.
Summary would be 'boy meets girl, major differences to overcome in cultural and religious beliefs, good suspense in the detective mystery'.
I found Book 2 enjoyable because the relationship between Rina and Decker wasn't rushed to develop and because Peter admitted to the unlikelihood he would become as religious as Rina would like him to be.
Summary would be 'boy and girl test the boundaries of what is possible between them, realistic development of relationship and interesting detective mystery'Book 3 - DNF.
Detective Pete Decker finds a little girl on patrol one night, and in his quest to find out who she is and who she belongs to, uncovers a grisly quadruple murder scene.This is a tough review to write.
The overall mystery involving the little girl and the murders was good, and the only real reason I kept listening.
He's verbally abusive to his fiancee on several occasions, and treats her like she's a little girl.
She's too good to hear that language".
It's not something I hear a lot.so far this has been my least favorite of the series.
Being an atheist myself I felt almost excluded, like I had been left out of some private joke, during most of the dialogue that involved Peter and Rina due to them being loaded religious references which the reader was just expected to understand.
The other major issue I had with this book was the way the author waited till literally the last couple of pages to explain what happened with, what I would consider to be, the second biggest plot line in the book.
Won't be reading any more of this authors books in a hurry.
I really liked the first book in this series.
Well, this book was on paper so I can't blame the format.
Toward the end of the book, Peter's emotional "lapse" was explained, but it still left me wondering about these characters whom I had begun to like so much.
I might give one more book a try and see if this was just a one-time thing in developing Peter's back-story.
Plot-wise, the book was pretty good, but several of the characters were less than likable (bigoted and misogynistic).
I hope the next book is better!
This series is a slow one for me, I only pick one up every once in a while.
The child leads Decker to a murder mystery, and along the way he’s also trying to clear a fellow Vietnam vet of some nasty charges.The book jumped around a lot and just didn’t leave much of an impression on me.
Other than the small child involved, I didn’t feel much for any of the perpetrators/victims in either plot line.
It wasn’t weak enough for me to give up on the series, but I won’t be rushing out to pick up the next one either.
Peter Decker is finding his new Jewish spirituality as he prepares to marry Rina Lazurus.
In this book he finds a little 2 year old girl wandering a neighborhood in the middle of the night.
As he and his partner unravel the crimes, Peter is asked to bail his old pal from the Vietnam War out of jail and investigate a rape charge against his former friend.
This opens the flood gates of horrible memories of the war, distressing and distracting Peter.
I enjoyed the unfolding of the stories and how Decker learns to face his demons.
We learn of their history in the war, Abe loses his leg, Peter saves his life.Peter stumbles upon a two year old little girl & he and Marge comb the neighborhood to see if anyone can identify her.
Although Patty Bingham hesitates, she says no, but she suspects who the girl's father is.
Since the girl has various bee stings, they search out bee farms and that's where they meet the Darcys -- a large family with the grandpa, grandma, the sons & wives & children & unmarried children.
Katie is the little girl's name and she has witnessed a gruesome scene of murder.
I think I used to like Faye Kellerman's books many years ago, so when this came up in a Kindle deal-of-the-day, I went for it.I really had to struggle to finish it.
I found all the main characters annoying.
Decker was a bit of a neanderthal, in fact almost all the men were depicted that way.
Surprising to me that it was written by a woman.And I was unimpressed when the mystery was finally solved by one of the witnesses explaining it all to Decker and his partner.
It felt like a waste of my time.
I enjoyed this, but less than I remember enjoying the old Faye Kellermans. Still a hundred times better than her later stuff like The Beast. It was great to see Rina and Peter as actual characters again and not just as the cardboard cut-outs they've become later in the series. A few of the scenes with Abel were WTF, though, especially the one with Rina in the barn. I like Marge. I wonder when Oliver shows up?
I have just (as a fan of the Peter Decker / Rina Lazarus books) who is up to date, gone back to read the first three books. Loved them and so interesting to be retrospective and find out more about Peter, Rina, Cindy, Marge etc earlier on. Loved the familiar LA setting, fast pace, gruesome attention to detail. Fab, but also perception and intuitive, with more depth and dimension than other books in this genre. :) :)
I don't often give a book 5 stars. (If every book was a 5-star book, the 5-star rating wouldn't mean much anymore.) What amazed me about this book was the intricate weaving of subplots with the main plot - a found toddler, a multiple murder, an old army buddy accused of rape, and the ongoing saga of Peter Decker's relationship with Rina Lazarus. The warp and weft of all the strands came together well, keeping me turning the pages to a fully-satisfying denouement.
I am really enjoying this series and the third installment of this series is the best so far. Peter and Rena are a great couple and I love the little romance thrown into a police procedural. I love the team that surrounds Peter and the mysteries that he solves. I love that Peter is a multi-dimensional character who struggles with reconciling his past with his present and trying to forge a future with Rena and her boys. Cannot wait to read the next book.
I am really getting hooked on this series. Although the books can be read as stand alones, they are much better when read in sequence. This is the third in the series and the quality improves as they go along. The characters are genuine and quite likeable.
I don't normally read mysteries, so I think I missed a lot of nuances in this book - the Orthodox Judaism, the difficulty in relationships, Vietnam, etc. must have supplemented the main plot in some way. I'm not sure I would buy another of Kellerman's books - it didn't really get me at the end.
I love Faye Kellerman's books, but I am always just a touch disappointed in the endings, in particular the way the perpetrator is revealed. I think this one facet of her books could be handled differently, in order to create more emotional impact.
