https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22483.Social_Origins_of_Dictatorship_and_Democracy
Sürekli Marksistlere laf çakmaya çalışmışsa da, Marksizm'in çözümlemelerinden çok şey öğrenmiş.Kitaptan öğrenilecek önemli bilgiler olduğuna şüphe yok.
Teorik çerçevesi yerli yerinde, günümüz akademisyenleri gibi laf salatası yapmayan, titiz bir araştırma.
Soğuk Savaş zamanı Harvard'da akademisyenlik yapmanın bir bedeli var elbet.
Bilimsel bilgiden çok, soğuk savaşta verilen ideolojik mücadeleye hizmet eden bir ayrım: ABD, İngiltere demokrasi, Sovyetler ve Çin diktatörlük.
Bu ayrım da çok partili rejimin demokrasiyle bir tutulmasına dayanıyor.Özetle okurken bunun Soğuk Savaş döneminde ideolojik mücadelenin kalelerinden biri olan Harvard Üniversitesi'nde yazılmış bir kitap olduğunu, okuru bilgilendirdiği kadar onu anti-komünist yörüngede tutmayı da önemsediğini unutmamak lazım.
If the aristocracy turns to commercial agriculture, as in Britain and France, and peasant society disappears, you will have a revolution that leads to the emergence of democracy.
In the French case, no alliance between the bourgeoisie and the aristocracy emerged that was sufficiently strong to repress the peasantry before the Revolution, and the French Revolution successfully destroyed enough of the ancien regime to prevent a bourgeois-aristocratic coalition from emerging.
In the cases of China and Russia, no significant bourgeois class emerged before their revolutions.To summarize, Moore argues for two necessary conditions for democracy's emergence: a balance between a landed aristocracy and a monarch, and the absence of an aristocratic-bourgeois alliance against the peasants and workers.
Social Originis of Dictatorship and Democracy to me was one of the books that comes along that stands as the pinnacle of comparative history and discussions of the political economy.
One of the top five most important books I have read in my life.
One review does not due justice to the amount of research and theoretical comparisons Moore accomplished in this book.
Those who reduce the book's thesis to merely, if a bourgeois class does not exist, than a democratic-capitalist country will not exist fail to see the complexities of Moore's thesis.
Many will say this book is boring, I think it's genius.
This book made a really good doorstop. The pages were textured just right to grip the carpet, and it was thick enough to wedge under the door.
I believe the most likely primary goal of a reader is to read the theory formulated by Moore.
This theory is the last three chapters of the book.
If linearly read, the grouping of countries is obscure and so is their relevance to formulating the theory.
For example India is grouped with other Asian countries but its relevance to Moore's theory comes forth when discussing the emergence of modern democracy (England, America, France).
The case of India is well chosen as it helps to refute many existing theories of peasant revolution, as well as emergence of modern democracy.

Though I was almost moved to give this 4 stars, I reconsidered upon reflecting that the only reason I would have done so is that this was the first book I'd read in months without regression tables or game theoretical models.
All in all, it is an information-laden tome that presents a fairly simple theory of how democracies came to be (the use-value for explaining democratization in the contemporary context, I think, is sorely lacking).
Moore obviously knows a lot about a lot, but the narrative often gets bogged down in minutiae such that the thesis is totally lost for tens of pages at a time.
It's like you're getting twisted and pressed into Barrington Moore's densely packed brainfolds: so much knowledge, such a broad vision. I like these macrohistorians, they got balls. And it's harder to figure out their mistakes. Possibly the best course-assigned text I've ever read.
good leterature
A comparative history of world politics. The author looks at several countries, including the United States, England, France, India, China, and Japan, and their path to democracy, fascism, or communism. A bit dry and meandering. Some interesting information.
This book is very impresionant.
I know this book is propped up and pedestalled (new word) as a genius comparative politics work.
While it definitely covers a lot of ground (histories of some of the world's biggest "players") and describes how forms of government came to be, I found it wordy and rather difficult to digest.
I admit to skipping a few chapters and skimming a few others (as allowed by my professor, because 500 pages?!) Perhaps if I didn't have to cram it in four days and maybe if I reread it it would make more sense....
a long, excruciating survey of the historical and sociological origins of parliamentary democracy, fascism, and communism in britain, germany, france, russia, china, india, and japan.
i frequently have trouble separating my opinions of the content of a book from the author's ability to express that content clearly.
this is a turgid, meandering tome that never seems to specify a main thesis or process clearly.
small N analyses often resort to massaging the theory in order to show that the empirical data fits it well.
in this case, it is so obtrusive that the book is a pain to read.
Whoaa. Moore isn't exactly a linear fellow. Recommend taking one chapter, at minimum and maximum, at a time. Re-read salient passages and hop around within chapters in order to follow the argument. He is good at quickly deconstructing recent historical theories and replacing them with a more pragmatic view. What about religion? I'm about half way through and not much mention of religion at all for a "social" history. He disparages (mostly rightly) a number of Marxist arguments but is quite materialist just the same. Still, very worth reading even as a primer for various historical epochs.
This book is a classic piece of work that reworked the ground for peasant studies. An amazing amount of information on peasant-landlord relations from places as diverse as France, USA, and China. It is interesting to read his thoughts on India, which I felt are similar to what many are expressing about Sub-Saharan Africa countries. While the book may seem to be just good history, or for critics maybe "anachronistic", I found the theories and insights to be highly relevant to my work in the borderlands of Nigeria and Cameroon where feudal relations still rule the lives of pastoral herders.
I very much appreciate the nuanced take on history--the book doesn't pretend to have all the answers or even a framework for all of them. I greatly appreciated that.Unfortunately, the formatting of the book could be better. The first part sets up the "facts" and the narrative for each of the main cases. The second uses it to make a theory. But it's hard to understand the "facts" without the context of the theory (or vice versa). The two should be more seamlessly integrated.
Moore's lengthy work argues that we can understand why countries progress along three routes to modernization (democracy, fascism, communism) by analyzing class relations and class changes. His argument is, for the most part, convincing. I highly recommend reading chapters 7, 8, and 9 before delving into the case studies (chapters 1-6), as these chapters better establish the terms of Moore's argument.
Excellent readding, althoug I failled to read it completely, for I had to return it. It was borowed to me by a colege professor. She came and simply ofered it for me to read. It was my first semester in colege, I still don't know how she figured out it was about one of my main interests. I guess she just liked me...
A classic look at the costs of modernization and the costs of inequality in producing the modern world. Dated, now--- but a fiercely reasoned account. Very much a book anyone interested in Russian serfdom, the English agricultural and industrial revolutions, or the end of the Ancien Regime in France should read.
It's ... very informative. I am learning a lot about, you know, revolutions and such. ...definitely not one that I would be able to force myself through if it was not for class, regardless of how much of an "Important Text" its considered to be.It's difficult to follow and the point that the author is makig ...kind of comes and goes. ...Hope none of my professors see this....
I'm afraid my eyes glazed over many times. Perhaps there was a deficiency of brain activity at the time. But I walked away from this very long book without a clue as to what he was saying (except, of course, that it had to do with dictatorships, democracy, lords and peasants).
An amazing read that helped define how I see the world of politics. This is not a light weight book or a breezy read. Moore presents a challenging read with every sentence heavy with ideas. I read this book as an undergraduate studying political science and never looked back.
الكتاب يتحدث بعمق عن التاريخ الاستبدادي لفرنسا و انجلترا و اميركا و كيف قامت فيها ثورات غيرت وجه التاريخ بأكمله ، الكتاب ليس بالمختصر ، ولمن ليس مهتماً بتاريخ أوروبا التفصيلي فلا أنصحه بقراءته ، إضافة إلى سوء الترجمة !!
great start for comprehending historical sociology
I unfortunately had to do ye olde grad school reading of this text. It is one I definitely want to revist in detail.
A brief book to learn between a class relations and dictatorship in the modern world
If you want to know how cetain countries become democratic and how those countries function, i recommend you to read this book.BM
This is magnificent. It suddenly puts revolutionary thought into the perspective of those who are thinking those thoughts, and why. This has now led me to Walzer.
Read this years ago. I remember it as being very good.
Don't remember this well. I read it 20 years ago.
