https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91682.Revolutionary_Suicide
I knew Huey as a child and I didn't like him.
I'd hide behind my father every time I saw him.
From the time of his death until now, I've learned more about the man he was, before I was born, and the organization he created.
Even still, I knew nothing.
It's like Huey was two different people: the man I knew and the man who shines in these pages.
If you know very little about the Black Panthers or even if you believe you're an expert on their history and organization, I encourage you to pick up a copy of this amazing autobiography.
The insight into Huey's soul, thoughts, and adventures is worth your time.
Huey was one in a million, with a sharp mind, a loving heart, and a peaceful soul.
In practicing criticism/self-criticism, my only issue with Huey is his patriarchal/male chauvinist tendencies which tainted his book, writing as if women did not exist either in the BPP or the world, by consistently using male pronouns like man, brothers, and sons when referring to people in general.
Reading his words fills me with courage to fight oppression and liberate the people, and I recommend this book to anyone fighting for social change and justice and who wants to know what the Panthers were really about.
I read this in college and alongside the Autobiography of Malcolm X, this book details what is like to define yourself on your own terms. Newton, along with X, was able to create his own identity after realizing the error of the identity that society had given him as a stereotypical young black man. This book really assuages a lot of the wrong stereotypes that exist about the black panther party to this day as well.
I think this is something that people need to read. I learned a lot. More than I can write here. Because this book creates a dialogue. You need to react to this book out loud. It begs you to argue with its ideas. It also shows the contemporary reader how little things have changed in the police vs black man. And if this white woman can see that, I cannot even fathom how horrible the reality is. Read this.
Part small time criminal, fighter, revolutionary, self taught intellectual (Newton couldn’t read or write before he entered college and taught himself reading Plato’s Republic), polyamorist, Marxist, defender of the poor, and probably twenty other things on top of these.
Anger at the wanton violence and racism of the police in his community, most certainly (I didn’t know for example that the derogatory term ‘pigs’ for cops started with Newton and Bobby Seale).
Perhaps had Newton lived, he would have be unsurprised by the events of a Ferguson or the murders of countless innocent black men at the hands of police.
Insightful for a Black Marxist revolutionary.
So far I have read ''Souls of Ice'', ''Soledad Brother'' and ''Revolutionary Suicide'' and I am convinced the BP were controlled op funded by Zionists because of all the overly sympathetic references to the holocaust.
This is a shame because previous Black Nationalists like Garvey and Malcom were overly cautious of the outside influences funding their community.
Aside from the Marxist and pandering to 3rd world rhetoric, this is an insightful look into a Black Nationalist who wanted the best for the struggle of his community.
I really liked it. Huey Newton's voice is distinct throughout the books. There are no cliches, just an insight into the history of the Black Panther's. It's also a story of fighting, of believing that life is rather lived than lived living dead.
Particularly for such an impressive man to say "They either do not want to learn or they do not believe that I can think." was a simple but very honest and telling sentence.He was a revolutionary man, to be sure, and helped create amazing changes in our country (trial by jury, community/police liaisons, community consciousness, survival programs, "pigs.") At times I did find it uncomfortable his views on women and queer people.
His admission of using the sexual liberation movement to put women in sexual/romantic situations that they did not want to be in was particularly bothersome.
Mr. Newton didn't see the racist police officers, district attorneys, judges and privileged established white america as the enemy but a lack of their understanding to the struggles of all people with color as the main source among divide within America at the time.
Thoughts on his views with religion are very captivating having grown up a traditional baptist background...after attending college he in a way rejects this belief system while still holding the bible as one of his favorite text, I am under the impression that the revolution in a way became his new faith and the higher being he was seeking was freedom for all people oppressed by the ignorant.
I thought this was a great, straight forward look at Newton's (and the Black Panthers) ideology and beliefs and how his party came together and what tore them apart, and his own experiences with the law and the justice system.
I was a little frustrated by the introduction by his wife just because she lets the reader know that he had a drug problem later in life and then to read him say multiple times how much the Black Panthers disapproved of drugs from the influences of Malcolm X and the Muslim population.
I really liked reading this, and want to know more about the movement.
All the while, I may have had too high of expectations for this one, as I knew a bit about and it's like -the founder of bpp-, but even beside that, my criticisms are not as significant as they were for, say, Malcolm's X Autobiography.One criticism I have is Newton's homofobia.
It only comes up once, but it's also in a dismissive fashion similar to Assata's disregard (rather than intense disgust, as with white feminists of the time) for a transgender comrade in the holding cells.
I skipped most of it, but I know it's extremely important people read it.
Assata was expansive on this as well, so it seemed a bit unnecessary.
Just like Malcolm, the books these men read in and out of prison, was what allowed them to develop new thinking and help convert their capacities to positive causes.
My main criticism (among many) of this book is the patriarchal tinge Huey gave the BPP and the exclusion of the woman's fundamental role in the party, it's disappointing that I'll have to read another book to find out the role women played in the party.
(Not because I don't want to read another book on that era but because I feel it was important that Huey covered it).
hard ttoo believe we've gone from overt racism in the oakland police force to borack obama, a black man, as president. the linear progression of freedom is truly a wonder to behold. grod bless america
I really enjoyed reading Huey P Newton's book. I had not much knowledge about the Black Panthers or the pain they suffered by the authorities.
The first third is quite interesting. But one begins now to suspect a lack of empathy in this man...
His strange personality and keep-it-real Blackness make the book a fun read, although the details of the trial kind of slowed things down a bit.
Although I know the general history of the Panthers in the period the book covers, the stuff about his family and the civil rights organizations he checked out before was all new for me.
His sour relationships with Eldridge Cleaver and Stokely Carmichael are addressed but he didn’t get as mean-spirited as I had expected and I was surprised by how much love he shows for George Jackson...
Obviously Revolutionary Suicide is a must-read if you are into the Panthers.
The Black Panther Party organized a community centered around respect and perseverance.
Food was provided for children.
Safety was provided for families.
They policed the police, ensuring officers operated under the legal guidelines and nothing more.
They wanted equality for all, not just whites, not just Blacks, but for all.
They were a movement of positivity and progressive ideas, fueled by generations of unjust oppression.
Huey's words are immaculate, and universal to anyone with a sense for what's right.
He speaks from experience and with wisdom.
I was appalled when I looked back on my high school history textbook and found only a meager sentence on this magnificent individual and his revolutionary party.
Even that single sentence they managed to mess up, by portraying the Black Panthers as a black separatist movement hell-bent on bringing fear into the community.
In reality, the Black Panthers were an open group, with goals of self-defense and community peace, based on the teachings of Malcom X in his latter years.
It also made me re-think Eldridge Cleaver's role in the Black Nationalist movement.
In poverty, he says, a man can attain the innate nobility of soul that is not possible in beggary; for while society may drive the poor man out with a stick, the beggar will be swept out with a broom.
I say with hope and dignity; and if premature death is the result, that death has a meaning reactionary suicide can never have.
It is the price of self-respect.Revolutionary suicide does not mean that I and my comrades have a death wish; it means just the opposite.
We have such a strong desire to live with hope and human dignity that existence without them is impossible.
Incredible insight to one of the greatest men to have touched this earth.
From the start of the book it never failed to touch me.
From his own motivation to teach himself how to read with Plato's Republic to his perseverance in bringing equality for Black people, Huey did not fail to teach me.
I even adored his opinion on the possessive aspects of a relationship and whatnot.
I digress, this is an amazing outlook of one of the most amazing leaders of a very beautiful party.
Thank you Huey for teaching me that freedom comes from the barrel of a gun.
the man was a genius. his personal story is compelling, and his political and philosophical analysis ... well, take a look for yourself. the book begins with an account of his childhood and ends with eldridge cleaver's defection from the party, so the party's demise and his final year aren't documented here. it's amazing to see the process he went through forming the party and to read his account of the events around his cop-killer trial.
I picked up this book as a reference for a term paper I was writing on the Black Panther Party. I wasn't expecting to read much of it or even enjoy it. But once I started, I could not stop. This book opened my eyes to a man I had never heard of before then. I can't believe all the years of schooling and learning about civil rights leaders and never once was Huey Newton ever mentioned. Revolutionary Suicide is one of the greatest books I've ever read.
Poetic, masterful and inspiration Huey's auto biography not only shows the progression of the Black Panther Party from a little group in Oakland to a national threat to white supremacy but also the personal ordeals he endured as revolutionary and his impressive commitment and passion for Black nationalism is remarkable. must read for anyone interested in black liberation theory
Truly inspiring. This book annihilates many of the myths and misconceptions surrounding Huey and the Black Panther Party. After reading this I will definitely like to read memoirs/autobiographies from female Black Panther members. It would be noteworthy to look into sexism and female invisibility inside the party which resulted in the disintegration of the Panthers.
It is good to read autobiographies by revolutionaries now and then. If nothing else, it can be inspiring. Huey Newton is certainly inspiring. With all the BS conjecture in the air about the Black Panthers I enjoyed hearing their story from their point of view for a change.It is also tragic to realize what happened to this man later in life - and not covered by his book.
This was one of the most stimulating and interesting books I've read in a long time. And further proof that IQ tests are bull. And as a paying member of the anti-Cleaver club it was nice to meet the founder and President.
It's a shame how much I've relied on mass-media and various cultural forms to 'educate' myself on the Black Panthers. I'd never fully realized that until I read this book and got more complete idea of what the Black Panther were trying to accomplish when they first began. Amazing.
Good book to read if you want Huey P Newton to tell you how cool and smart and great he was
A friend recommended this and I'm glad I picked it up, it was an eye opener. Now I found myself interested in history and non fiction books thanks to this
Newton describes his life growing up in a poor, Black neighborhood in California, and overcoming a dismal education system, structural racism, and dim prospects for those in the community who just wanted the same access to goods and resources that those in nearby wealthy, white communities had.
Newton was unjustly blamed for killing a cop, when in fact, he had been unconscious during the entire incident due to having been shot himself by a cop.
Furthermore, his insights into the prison system, having spent 33 months there, are worth the read.
