https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1835913.The_Flaming_Forest
When David Carrigan of the Canadian Mounted Police is sent on a mission to catch Black Roger Audemard he feels he has picked up an unusually difficult, but enjoyable job.
Now, he has another mission, to find out why she shot at him and if she has anything to do with Black Roger.
While he follow the law, bring Black Roger to justice or will he let a pretty woman turn his head, something that's never been done, even by the beautiful lady outlaw he had tried to pin a case down on?
But seriously, this book was good.
The ending was on-the-edge-of-your-seat good and overall I couldn't rate this lower.
Everyone is familiar with the idiom “We always get our man” in reference to the diligence displayed by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police but does this also apply to the fairer sex?
James Curwood, with an intimate knowledge of the Canadian wilderness, paints a breathtaking portrait of endless forests.
This story was first published in 1921 and as all of the stories I’ve read from that time, love and men’s attitude toward women are both overly chivalrous and naïve.
It has the makings for an enjoyable afternoon of reading.
Read this a long time ago and loved it! Never got around to reviewing it because of not having my copy handy to add (it's actually my mom's book), and someone has actually added it now...if only procrastination worked that well every time! Tweety has written an excellent summary in her review, so I will just say the book was excellent and recommend that you head on over to find your own copy to read. Very good outdoor story!
This is one of my all-time favorite books. Classic pulp-fiction from the early 1920s, your typical adventurer in the Canadian North walking the fine line between love and justice. I read this book every couple of years. One of Curwood's finest.
Outstanding!! Kept me on edge, and racking my brains for the answer to the mystery. I love books with Mounties, and this was perfect-had me dying to travel the same empty Canadian wilderness David did. A two thumbs up!
A fun escape to the north woods.
Then he passes into and out of consciousness and feels like there are actually two women, one with lustrous black hair and beautiful eyes, and one with flaming, golden hair and blue eyes.
Eventually, a canoe comes by with the stunning woman with the black hair and beautiful eyes and a massive, half breed with long, apelike arms.
In the mean time, Carrigan is locked into the cabin, trying to figure out how to escape so that he can take up his mission of bringing Black Roger Audemard to justice.
I read this book because we toured Curwood's faux castle writing studio in Owosso, MI.
The wilderness barely figures in the plot at all, except as a backdrop for the interactions of the characters.
Most of the book consists of overly flowery language describing how buff the main character is, how invitingly beautiful his love interest is, and how noble the guy is for not going after her because she's married.
This novel is surprisingly like a Danielle Steele novel (not that I've read any of those, but I've seen the covers) for guys.
It's no wonder that Curwood has slipped into obscurity, while London is still respected.
Impossible to review. Picked it up at a garage sale and had a wonderful afternoon and evening. It took me back to reading adventure stories of many years ago—the heroic character who took on all challenges, loved the outdoors, was a gentleman to the core, and ultimately gave up being a North West Mounted PO to marry the girl of his dreams.
Enjoyed the plot - long, twists & surprises, end wrap up and interesting plot. Nicely narrated by Roger Melin, recommended. Other reviewer is correct- it's an early days pulp fiction.
Este libro me sigue gustando tanto como la primera vez que lo leí hace muchos años.En él se ve claramente el amor del autor por la naturaleza, (evocado en las amables descripciones que hace de los paisajes), y su opinión sobre el efecto corruptor de la civilización.La historia va sobre David Carrigan, un policía montado que va tras los pasos de un peligroso criminal en las hermosas tierras del Norte, pero casi pierde la vida cuando alguien le dispara con intención de matarle.
The overall theme of the story is: which is greater - the letter of the law or love?Three threads - adventure, mystery, and love - intertwine to make this an enjoyable read, with more twists and turns than the river it is set upon.
Written in the early 1920's, this does have the unfortunate language of the time in reference to one character who is Metis but in the story referred to contemptuously as "half-breed" by the white officer of the law.
Will definitely re-read this one again in a few year's time.
Good story! 4.5 stars!
I am not a big fan of adventures books but it is a fun to read it from time to time (but the good one).
Far out.
love/romance adventure story.
It a great escape for a lazy afternoon!
Read this book for free through Project Gutenberg: http://www.gutenberg.org/files/4702/4...
kindle
A good little story.
