https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/290400.Best_Friends
Just as excellent as it was back in 1986 when I first read it. Also, Jessica Wakefield is a sociopath.
Loved this book series when I was young! Hard to rate the books, but I remember them with so much joy that at least 4 stars are they worth even though I probably wouldn't appreciate them now as much as I did when I was a teen.
This was a really powerful book for me because I felt psychologically pulled to identify with both Jessica and Elizabeth.
Consequently, this sweet valley duality was the fountainhead of many years of existential anxiety for me.
You see, what Pascal does that is so brilliant, is to present you with the choice between good and evil.
Will I identify with wild, rule-breaking Jessica, popular and exciting?
Or peaceful, rule-abiding Elizabeth, successful and righteous?
It really tears you apart b/c you can't fall back on the ol' well-whose-prettier?
option...they look exactly the same!!!
Pascal is a truly cruel protagonist, but divinely so!
These were my favorite series of books from my tween years. How I yearned to be the best friend of Elizabeth Wakefield, or possess the power over the prepubescent boy crowd, like Jessica could. I have to give the 4 star rating based on how I devoured these books as a 11 year old girl, but in all reality I probably wouldn't want my daughter to read them.
With her silky blond hair, blue-green eyes, and perfect features, there was no doubt about it.""[Elizabeth] didn't know who made her feel worse -- herself, for waiting forever like a wimp, or Jessica, for having no consideration at all.""How was [Jessica] going to keep her own twin sister from finding out the best thing that had ever happened to her?""Maybe that was how Jessica always got around her.
7. She's on one of her "fat is evil" kicks, and she's horrible to Lois Waller.The Big Deal: Jessica's Unicorn Club initiation Lingering Questions: In SVJH, which isn't that long after this, Liz says that she and Jess quit dressing alike in the 5th grade.
This review stands for the whole series.
Between the ages of 12 and 13 I maniacally sought and read all of SVK, SVT and SVH.
There was magic in being a twin, and I wished I was one.
I really identified with Elizabeth, bookish and clever who had great besties and an entertains sis.
Then I started high school and realized that there were books out there that would make your mind explode.
I outgrew the Wakefield twins long before they went to SVU.These books were a part of my childhood.
I remember them with fondness; but rereading them, bringing them into my adult world, would ruin those memories.
One of my favorite series when I was younger.
I've been wanting to read this series again (because I'm overly sentimental). So I'm starting with book one, and all I can say is I must be getting old because Jessica annoyed me to no end! 😩😂
It turns out in the past 27 years not much has changed with sibling relationships and middle school friendships.
I don't remember if I read any of the Sweet Valley Twins series as a child, I do remember owning a few of the Sweet Valley High books.
But, the book is only about 100 pages so it's definitely a quick read.I enjoyed the book quite a bit, even though the characters are in middle school I was still amused by their lives.
I find I relate much more to Elizabeth, the bookworm sister.
Jessica, the superficial dumb sister I don't really like at all and I can see her turning into a villain later.
Where to begin.
I started reading these books when I was in second grade.
I got the first four for Christmas and devoured them.
And then they went around to every other girl in my class.
The stories are a nice, sweet escape for an eight-year-old going through a tough time.
Elizabeth and Jessica took me through many adventures through six years: starting with Twins, moving up to Sweet Valley High, then on to the Sagas and Sweet Valley University.
The Sweet Valley Twins books remained my favorites (though I remember the Sagas most clearly).
I loved these and the SVH books as a kid - gobbled them up.
And apparently I still love them because once I started reading, it all came back and it read just as well as they did then.
For being turned out like they were, I can't help thinking they are pretty well done.I did not realize what a sociopath Jessica was when I read them the first time around, but that girl is so beyond mean girl it isn't even funny.
I can't wait to read them all again - I already ordered the next 5 from surrounding libraries :o)
I LOVED the Sweet Valley Twins Series.
I think I started reading them in Grade 4-5, along with the Baby-Sitter's club books.
They were totally formulaic but the nice thing was you didn't necessarily have to read them in order.
Elizabeth was my favorite twin.
Jessica was kind of mean.
I felt like I hit the jackpot if I found at least one in the local library.
They were easy to find by their pastel-covered spines along the rows of books.By grade 6 I think I read them all and started reading the Sweet Valley High series, which were ok, not as fun as these.
It's weird to see that school in Sweet Valley seems like it will benefit them more in life. Yeah we get to choose one of our electives but they have cooking as a class which seems more helpful in life than building a rocket. I'm saying this because when you,hopefully, graduate college you might need to make a fancy dinner. Cooking is more useful than building a rocket, unless you are a rocket engineer.
3.5*I knew this wasn't my favourite but it has more redeeming features than I remembered. It also made me think that Jessica was a real piece of work! Love the scene setting and character building and it made me reminiscence about how much love I had for this series.And the Dairi Queen revenge scene - I cheered. #saynotofatshaming
Read this series in elementary school.
jessica wakefield is a terrible person.
Finally the twins were my age!( for more svh svt madness - check out my site - http://cliqueypizza.wordpress.com/) It's embarrassing to recall just how influential this series was to me and my friends.
And when they get revenge on the Unicorns - only rich-girl Lila is targeted , and embarrassed - why not Jess?
Sometimes I think these girls exist in a dream world - one in which Jess can perform deeds Liz can't or battles wanting to , which would explain why Liz gets the blame.
But Jess never really gets punished because in a dream world Jess would be Liz's id.
Project: Re-read Sweet Valley is off to a good start, and we're back into the world of Jessica and Elizabeth Wakefield.
She isn't very good at articulating her needs, and combined with Jessica's definite narcissism, there's definitely an unpleasant vibe between the sisters (that will carry them all the way through high school and beyond).
I like that they're short and are very quick to read, meaning I can work my way through the set, and then let them go out into the world with a clear conscience, as they're certainly not worth keeping once you're done.
One of the twins--Jessica--suddenly wants to hang out with elitist snobs: a club of girls called the Unicorns.
And the other twin wants to be a writer and starts bonding with other kids who want to write for a school paper.
The pranks and hazing tasks that Jessica has to go through to be part of the Unicorn Club were really messed up, and a lot of the "oh look, mixed-up twins" hijinks annoyed me.
It was kinda sweet that both of the twins had a loyalty to each other that made them really want to pull each other into their own interests and opportunities, though.
I'm only adding the first book because I think I read about sixty of these when I was eleven or twelve, and I really don't feel like searching through them all.
One that I actually didn't like at the time, but appreciate in retrospect, was the special Christmas book where the twins went into the Narnia-like world.
I think it bothered me because it was so unlike the other Twins books, but I read a recap on the 1bruce1 community on Livejournal recently, and man, there was some serious Jungian shit going on there.
I thought it was stupid that Jessica wanted to be in a snobby girls club called the unicorns.
(BTW,I hate Jessica) Elizabeth was trying to be nice to Jessica about the newspaper,but Jessica screams in her face and says no.
Then Jessica gets these pledge tasks to get into the unicorn club.
Then Jessica told Elizabeth that she could try to get her in.
Elizabeth pledge task is to exchange Lois Wallers whipped cream with shaving cream.
She says NO.
Jessica pretends to be Elizabeth and do the pledge task for her.
Elizabeth calls Lois and gets back at the unicorns.
Pascal, Francine.
Print.Genre: Children’s Chapter BooksSweet Valley Twins by Francine Pascal is about two twins that have been so similar throughout their whole lives.
This book gives readers the opportunity to look at the life of a teenage girl.
This book is best suitable for children in middle school to Jr. High because it is at their reading level and gives them the opportunity to see life in other teenager’s shoes.
The vocabulary is suitable for the readers because it allows them to expand their vocabulary and learn new terms that can help them in the future.
Read the whole series in elementary school.
I would highly recommend this book to all young girls because it teaches good, core values.
Like respecting your elders, respecting your parents, how to deal with siblings and the bonding of sisters, meeting new friends, and basically all the things that young girls might not know very well.
My sister while growing up was 5 years older than me.
So, these are cherished books & i highly recommend that they follow up with high school series.
Cause those also teach valuable lessons to young teenage adult girls like i was.
I still really enjoyed reading it again, and I think tweens are really going to be able to relate to Jessica and Elizabeth, even after all these years.
I just did not realize how much of a sociopath Jessica was as a kid - she is so beyond your average mean girl!
Some of the stuff is outdated and we probably wouldn't want to teach our daughters that "boys are mean or tease you when they like you" - even Elizabeth realizes that Bruce is a bully in this way - but Jessica eats it right up.
It was with these books that I realized just how much I would love reading.
In third grade I used to sneak them to school and read them under my desk until I got caught.
I can't speak to the quality of writing (because I'm sure if I went back to read them they wouldn't hold up) but they meant a lot to me at the time.
My dad used to buy my sister and I new ones when we got good grades or for good behavior.
I read almost every book in the series, though I won't add them all because that would take me all day.
I read this book when I was about nine or ten, and obsessed with all things 'twin'. Elizabeth and Jessica Wakefield certainly fit the bill. This is the first book in a very long series about their adventures at Sweet Valley Middle School. Here, we see Elizabeth and Jessica begin to claim their individuality, particularly when Jessica joins an elite club called "The Unicorns". I still remember the three initiation tasks she has to do. The whole book was quite interesting, and let's not forget the little teaser for Book #2 at the end!
Well, it sure is a nostalgic trip through time reading this, to say the least. But it was also incredibly generic and it makes me wonder why adults write books for kids (though most books for kids are written very well). Best Friends wasn't bad but if you haven't read it, you aren't missing much.
Didn't like these books as much as the Babysitter's Club, and didn't like Sweet Valley High as much as I liked Sweet Valley twins. By high school, the girls, particularly Jessica, were a little of boy crazy for me. :p. At least when they were younger, I could relate to their problems. I liked Elizabeth more, because I always fall for the quieter, more bookish ones.
This series began the year I was in 6th grade and was where I found all my advice on being what we then called a pre-teen (now: tween). Also prompted my best friend and I to begin our own private Purple Unicorns and wore purple every day somewhere on our bodies to show we were member for six months. We even made a clubhouse. Um, we were the only two members lol.
