https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/237379.Two_Little_Trains
The writing is simply repetitive, just right for little children, and the connection between what the real train is doing and what the toy train is doing is sweet and imaginative.Two things bugged me, one very minor and one a little more seriously.Firstly, although the trains are going "to the west", if you were to look at a map, with North at the top (as is typical), west is to the left...
I'm very interested in the research which says that children pick up racist attitudes more quickly if we do NOT talk about it.Apparently, since children aren't actually stupid, when they see that other people have skin a different color than their own, they wonder about it.
What a gem with Margaret Wise Brown as the text author and Leo and Diane Dillon as the illustrators. Loved the illustration concept of on the left side of the double page spread is the sleek train heading west and on the right hand side is the depiction that a young child is playing with their train and the same things are occurring to both trains.It was a delight to find this title as I straightened library book shelves yesterday after a busy summer reading day.
A picture book showing two trains going West. One is a real train and one is a toy train. Cleverly told and illustrated.Ages: 3 - 6**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website: The Book Radar.
Solid book but a bit sleepy. I like the contrast of the child imagining where the trains are and the depiction of how they're playing pretend. I find it a little too repetitive to want to read aloud. Recommended ages 2-4.
Loved the repetitive texts! But was a little confusing for a toddler.
I just I thought it was going to be about two full sized trains that were friends - I have no idea where I got that idea from though haha.
I'm not sure why, and I'm pretty sure it's not supposed to, but this one brings me near tears every time.
i was mesmerized. great moments of fantasy or children's play that came to realize as a book.
A cute and imaginative comparison between the travels of a real-life train heading west and a toy train traveling through the house until it finds its child.
This is a poem of two little trains, a "streamlined train" and a "little old train", "going west."The marvelous illustrations transform this rather dull poem into a story, and tell the story pictorially far better than the text does.
The pictures tell the story of two trains, one a sleek passenger train, the other a toy train.
My children have never gravitated to her books, and the few times we have checked her books out of the library, they never ask for them to be re-read, which is a relief to me.
I chose Two Little Trains because of the author Margaret Wise Brown. She also wrote The Goodnight Moon Room, so I knew this one would stand out too. I enjoyed the comparing and contrasting of the two trains, one old and one new. The illustrations were calm and did not distract from the text. Alliteration is also used quite often through the book.
It travels through a house full of things that could easily be from the late 1940s.I checked out the updated version for Harriet.
The streamlined train is now a train going cross-country while the "chug chug" train is a toy train going through a house.
Their parallel journeys are shown side by side.I read the book to myself before I read it to Harriet.
I thought the parallel structure might be over her head but she not only understood the book but loved it.
She declared it was the "best book" I've ever checked out from the library for her.
If you have a train fanatic in your household, (or just enjoy them) you must own or at least read this book.
It was a very nice train book!
The illustrations are great, one page the left side is scenes about a streamline train with 'realistic' scenes and the right page is of a 'little old train' which is a toy train.
As the text describes scenes the streamline shows 'real' and the old train shows the toy train throughout the house where a child would play with it, (Running it through a book for a tunnel, running it along the bathtub to be beside a lake etc) I really enjoyed reading this out loud to my adult special needs son.
He enjoyed the great illustrations.

Margaret Wise Brown is better known for GOODNIGHT MOON, but of her many books this is my favorite.
TWO LITTLE TRAINS describes two parallel train trips.
Both author and illustrators demonstrate a deep appreciation for train travel, but especially capture a child's imagination and love of trains.
Brown captures the feeling of train travel in the rhythmic and varied language.
Matching these words with the inventive, dreamy illustrations by Leo and Diane Dillon is what makes this a real treasure.
They bring to life the carefully chosen words with beautiful creativity and imagination perfectly for any little train lover.

“Two Little Trains” is a story about “two little trains”.
Both trains take a journey west through mountains, rivers, and tunnels or stairs, tubs, and books until they at last reach the west.
This book has fantastic scenery, it is very detailed, the text is at the bottom of every page framed by white space.
The book itself is wide which invites the reader to take time to look at the pictures.
I would use this book to encourage children to engage in pretend play and to reinforce that it is ok to use their imagination.
My toddler loves, loves anything trains. He also possesses a deep affinity for train books. As a parent, I make a noble effort to introduce him to train stories that veer away from Thomas and Friends - books that are more creative and meaningful. One such book we uncovered is Two Little Trains. The illustrations are artistic and lifelike. And the story itself is completely synonymous with a little boy's imagination. From the author of Goodnight Moon (a beloved classic), it's no wonder this story was such a hit in our household. ~AH
This book was originally written in 1949 by Margaret Wise Brown and re-illustrated in 2001 by Leo & Diane Dillon.
My son loved the story of the two trains, one old and slow, the other shiny and fast.
They are traveling west and go up hills, through mountains and over river bridges before getting to their destination.
The book is cool in that all the destinations are in the imagination of the little boy that has these two toy trains, so when the train is going over the river bridge, it’s really driving next to a bathtub full of water.
I like how this story follows two trains travelling West which is compared to each other on opposing pages. One train is a real train, the other is as seen through the eyes of a child. The child will enjoy the adventure the train takes them on.Margaret Wise Brown uses poetry techniques to make this classic book a great read-aloud. She uses lots of repetition and rhythm, which makes it sing-songy. A great book for the young train enthusiast.
This is a new rendering of this rather obscure story by Margaret Wise Brown. The new illustrations tell most of the story, and while breathing something of a classic feel, make the story more modern and - I suspect - drastically better. I myself loved it, and the juxtaposition of the two trains really tickled my son's imagination. Absolutely delightful!
Two little trains, one old and one streamlined, head west…in a wildly imaginative trip a two toy train goes over bridges spanning vast lakes, over mountains and through tunnels, just like it's real train companion. The lovely illustrations in muted colors show snatches of common household locations that become track, mountain and lake and parallel the real train's journey. My story time audience loved this one.
This lyrical text combined with beautiful illustrations is a hit with my little guy. Not-I-think-we-should-own-it-incredible, but a solid library multiple check out.Sept 2008: Now that we are more than half way through the recommended reading list on trains and have little to inspire, this book is looking stronger with every check out. Maybe it will go into the ownership catagory after all? We'll see.
The book follows two trains, one steamlined train and one wooden toy train. The trains go on parallel adventures all across the country as they venture ever west in a very satisfying read. The text has an obvious rhythm that follows the "chuga-chuga" sounds associated with trains to better entertain the reader. I found the book to be well done and I can easily see why it has continued to be published for years. Not my favorite though.
One of Margaret Wise Brown's lesser known works. The two little trains of the title are actually one real train on a long journey westward, and a small toy train on a journey around a house. The story is from 1949, but in the copy I read the illustrations were from 2001- although they certainly captured a mid-20th century feel with the illustrations. I really like the comparison of the two trains, but the story as such didn't work that well for me.
Not my favorite Margaret Wise Brown book, but not bad; I just didn't like the resolution of the story shown through the artwork. It looks like both trains will reach a similar destination at the end, but they don't. Why don't they? Maybe it's a good discussion point with young children, but they may not "get it" either.
This story line is cumbersome and the words do not flow. It is difficult to read aloud. Cute concept of 2 different trains--one real going through the country and the other a toy train tackling the same obstacles (river=bath tub, hills=blankets, etc.) but it just doesn't work well. Emerson likes the pictures none the less.
Absolutely wonderful! Not as well known as Goodnight Moon or Runaway Bunny, which makes it a good baby gift - the chances are pretty good that the parents won't already have received a copy.The two little trains in question are a real train and a toy train. The text has the same soothing lilt to it that Brown's other books have, and the illustrations are beautiful.
We absolutely loved the parallel of the small toy train and the large steamer. The boys squealed with joy over the toy train going over the river (bathtub) and through the rain (shower). Love the imagination!
One of the few Dillon-illustrated picture books that's for very young children. In this, they update Margaret Wise Brown's simple text with great imagination: one real train and one toy train on similar journeys. At the end, we're left to wonder... did that little toy train travel all by itself?
