https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/432879.The_Warlord_of_the_Air
That sort of pulp zaniness combined with an authorial voice that can be subtle and clever and precise will keep drawing be back to Moorcock's writing--indeed, he is an inspiration for authors of speculative fiction, if only he'd spend a little more time polishing up.Some of his political satire was a bit rough, lacking in the precision that makes satire truly effective, but other sections showed a much lighter, knowing touch.
It seemed he was only thrown to the wolves to procure a bit of drama, which seemed rather cheap to me.Hopefully as the series continues Moorcock will take a bit more confidence in his voice and let the story play out instead of interposing interesting scenes and rather more bland exposition.
Very good, if your into steampunk, which i very much am.
It was so neat to read some that was written in the 70's and compare it with the steampunk genre today.
This is the first book in a 3-novel volume i'm reading about Oscar Bastable called The Nomad of Time, if you have a more recently published copy, it is now called The Nomad of the Time Streams.
This was my first Moorcock book and i will be reading more; it is extremely well-written in my opinion.
Great book- air ships, time travel, and he's good at describing the mundane and making it great..
There may have been earlier examples of the genre, and perhaps there are later examples that more solidly explore the ideas behind steampunk, but the Nomad of the Timestreams trilogy is the definition of steampunk to me.While a dimension hopping, time traveling Oswald Bastable might seem to be a hard pill to swallow, it is written with such an honest face that not only could I suspend my disbelief, I could almost turn full circle and believe that I was reading a historical text.
It is the transcript of a narrative related to the elder Moorcock by Oswald Bastable, an opium-addicted stowaway he encounters while taking a kind of rest cure on Rowe Island in the Indian Ocean.
The year is 1973.Warlord of the Air is Moorcock writing in a Wellesian mode and the first of his Nomads of Time trilogy.
The reader can write off Bastable story as opium-induced ravings, since what he has to say about 1973 is so far off the mark of what we, and Moorcock, Jr., know.
At the end of the story, with Bastable once again disappeared into the time stream, Moorcock's grandfather reviews the manuscript in his hand.
Having been a fan of this type of science fiction since my childhood I found "The Warlord of the Air" to be great fun.
Mr. Moorcock combines Victorian and mid-twentieth century attitudes and throws the story at us with a wink since the inside joke is that we (the readers) already know that it's an alternative history story.
There are other reviewers who have taken issue with this, but if you are familiar with the older science fiction novelists then you won't have any trouble with "The Warlord of the Air".
I understand why this is considered a steampunk classic.
Although, I will admit that it started a bit slow for me, it did pick up and get me sucked in, which is good because there are two more books in the series.
The best thing about this book is that Moorcock wrote it in a way that was reminiscent of writers from the early 1900’s, keeping the feel of it realistic.
The airships and inventions are great but don’t have the intricate details of the newer steampunk genre.
Remember, Moorcock and Jeter practically invented steampunk.
Overall, a fantastic book.
Long on politics, short on action and adventure. OK, so it takes all sorts, but this is my review and I felt like I was reading a pamphlet (which is not to say I do or don't disagree with the sentiments, just this is fiction and I prefer fiction to be fun). I'd also quibble with the status of this book as a steampunk classic. Not much 'steam' and pretty easy on the 'punk', too. It's dieselpunk, if anything. The presence of a few airships in a book does not a steampunk classic make.
He discovers that England, Japan and some other places are 'utopia'-esque, and he thinks it's frickin AWESOME, and he becomes an airship pilot!
Or are things NOT so ideal for someone, somewhere...perhaps all those colonized countries following the rule of the more powerful nations....You bet.
And, slowly but surely, our hero converts from a soldier of England to a rebel himself!
But, Warlord of the Air is partially redeemed by the fact that it was still a fun read, and it at least ATTEMPTED to wrestle with some important social issues.
He keeps the narrative moving along briskly, and adapts both the tropes of the form and the politics which drive the story in the later chapters to produce a highly entertaining read, one that has aged well in comparison to other novels of its type.
This is an excellent starting point for someone wishing to explore the steampunk genre, as well as a fun read for anyone seeking a good book with which to pass the time.
Taking characters from his giant toybox of “Eternal Champion” archetypes and throwing them into Hx, then shaking them about into alternate realities and times.Bastable meets some old favourites (Una and I think Jerry have cameos), and some real characters (Joseph Conrad as airship captain, Mick Jagger as soldier) as he travels through time and gets caught up in revolution.Presented as a found manuscript, by his grandfather, this may be the opium addled ramblings of an English officer that went “doolally”...or indeed the memoirs of a nomad of the time streams.The flavour at the start is a bit “Man Who Would Be King”, but this changes as our protagonist is thrown forward in time to an alternate ’73 and a world of airships and empire with revolution bubbling away under the surface.
In general the book was more successful in its ideas than in its story: the author gets carried away with the description of life in alternate 1973 and the exploration of the results of unchecked imperialism, and then skimps on the story aspects of plot and character.
This conversion is shown in a compressed time scale without a personal event to anchor it, and as a result it felt like I was being told instead of shown, and rushed through the author's themes of imperialism and racism.
Moorcock tells this story in an alternative future, by the eyes of a typical soldier of the British Empire who is sent to an alternative future where the British Empire seems to have created an utopia.
At least in the main character's eyes.
The British Empire after years without going to war ( the technology is not as advanced as it was back in our actual 1973) which leads to apparent economical and social advances.
We will know later that the Empire is in fact lying in fragile foundations.
Although heavily biased to left propaganda, this is an awesome and seminal steampunk fantasy book.
Is Oswald Bastable sane? Dreaming? Time traveling? Dimension hopping? Whichever, it's a fun read. Not what you might call meticulously constructed with a plot of jewel-like precision. More of a story reeled out across several drunken and/or dope-crazed evenings. But there's some social satire in there, and some buckles get swashed, and there are airships. I won't hunt for the next volume but if it crosses my path I'll read it.
It has the best technology in the world because lots of really smart people chose to live there.
I think this is because it's combined with didacticism--Moorcock isn't just presenting a series of fantastic events, as in, say, the Barsoom series.
He's presenting a series of fantastic events in support of a political thesis.
in a way contrary to the author's intent.Either aspect of the novel works well by itself, but I did not think their combination was very sincere.
Though the lack of a love story I'm frankly quite satisfied with.This book may be more interesting for its time, being from the 70's, but again, I'm always after something stimulating, not necessarily only "as seen in context".
And then what?Not much.Though a very different genre and including magic, you get more apt airship details in The Aeronaut's Windlass (even if THAT book was very focused on running around a lot).
And for political revolution in a sci fi setting, The Moon Is A Harsh Mistress is more to the point - also with more apt science details.
Resta, como esperança de um mundo diferente e pós-colonial, um senhor da guerra chinês que congrega no seu bem defendido território anarquistas, rebeldes e dissidentes de todo o mundo e desenvolve novas armas capazes de defrontar as bem armadas frotas de dirigíveis imperiais - ágeis aeronaves mais pesadas do que o ar, capazes de abater os pesados zeppelins, e uma arma suprema desenvolvida por físicos dissidentes que será lançada sobre a cidade japonesa de Hiroshima, ponto de encontro das frotas aladas aliadas que se congregam para aniquilar a cidadela do progressista senhor da guerra que está a provocar inquietação em todo o mundo colonizado.É neste cenário que se move Bastable, salvo das ruínas himalaias por um dirigível da polícia fronteiriça do Raj anglo-indiano.
An interesting readI first read a Michael Moorcock book in Guyana when I was 14.
My family was there on vacation and I needed a new book.
I enjoyed it, an Elric story.
Hadn't read another Moorcock story since.
43 years later and I realize why I liked his writing.
Warlord of the Air is a basic, no nonsense sci-fi story that, while now a bit dated in the premises, still makes for a good tale.
Time travel, airships, good guys, bad guys, revolutionaries and the inimitable Brits makes for the basis of a good Netflix movie.
Ok, somebody go make the movie!
I first read this about thirty five years ago, and found it fascinating. It is a fascinating mix of alternate history, social criticism, and dare I say it, Steampunk, before the word was invented. My recent re-read was due to a rekindled interest in the works of Michael Moorcock as inspired by a mutual friend. I now can also appreciate the use of historical figures such as Joseph Conrad in an alternate timeline.
Hailed as one of the first Steampunk novels, it's really more of attempt to revive a bunch of tropes from Victorian literature. It has a Victorian-esque prose style that works surprisingly well at describing the alternate history setting. The plot filled with subversion of adventure story tropes, but it's hard to describe what makes this better than your average throwback without spoiling anything.
Starts slow, picks upI read some Moorcock in high school and found it a slog. This work, however, starts slow and then does a quick tour of 20th century leftist thought while touching every steampunk trope along the way. If you don't like politics or moral ambiguity, read another author. An enjoyable and fast-paced read, on the mean. Far superior to Priest's tiresome Leviathan series. For steampunk fun, start here.
Fun steam punk time traveling with Captain Bastable of the Lancers thrown into 1973 where he meets scout leader Ronnie Reagan and police officer Michael Jagger. A mix of Boys Own adventure and political fantasy.
A fine pulp atmosphere, finally a non-irritating steampunk, but it's still Moorcock's usual deus-ex-machina plotting, barely more than an outline of a novel.
Too "Wells" for me.
.
Enjoyable precursor to the whole steampunk genre.
I know Han Solo is an archetype anyway, but it's fun to run into a character that is his precursor rather than the other way around.UPDATE: April 1So I finished the first book of this trilogy (all volumes are contained within this text), and, well, it's more interesting as a time capsule than as a story.
I really thought women would have had more of a Star Trek kind of liberation, considering it was written in the 1970s, but 1) It imagines a world that the Victorians populated and 2) The ERA stuff really hadn't taken hold.
But in 1971 Michael Moorcock wrote the original airship novel, The Warlord of the Air. Moorcock’s novel, written under the guise of his fictional grandfather (also called Michael Moorcock), makes comment on colonialism and the alternate futures of the British colonies.Taking the character Captain Bastable from E.
In stead of airplanes, airships dominate the skies, and Bastable is trained to pilot these ships.Moorcock nails the Edwardian adventure tale with writing so skilled it is difficult to differentiate from period tales.
Viewed in the context of its original publication date, The Warlord of the Air is an important book in the canon of science fiction and fantasy.
Com a chancela da Saída de Emergência, chega-nos o primeiro livro de uma trilogia do aclamado autor britânico Michael Moorck, vencedor de um Nebula Award, dois World Fantasy Award e três prémios da British Fantasy Society. “O Senhor da Guerra dos Céus” foi publicado em 1971 (seguiram-se “The Land Leviathan” e “The Steel Tsar”) e é uma das provas de como este autor é um grande nome da Fantasia e Ficção Científica mundiais. O livro começa com a recuperação de Michael Moorcok (supostamente o avô do
“O Senhor da Guerra dos Céus” foi publicado em 1971 (seguiram-se “The Land Leviathan” e “The Steel Tsar”) e é uma das provas de como este autor é um grande nome da Fantasia e Ficção Científica mundiais.
Ele é Oswald Bastable, um soldado britânico do início do século XX que numa das suas missões na Índia é surpreendentemente atirado para o futuro, mais precisamente para 1973.
Mas bastou ler as páginas iniciais para perceber que “O Senhor da Guerra dos Céus” é uma excelente obra.
O aspecto mais interessante desta obra é a facilidade com que transpomos as suas metáforas para os dias de hoje.
После этого я оставил его и никогда больше не встречал. Освальд Бастэйбл После прочтения аннотации единственная мысль, жалобно трепетавшая в голове — это что за бред?!Но повествование, стоит признать, не оставляет настолько бредового ощущения. Хотя «фантастическое допущение» - перемещение во времени — уж больно притянуто за уши. Ближе к концу складывается ощущение, что всё затевалось исключительно ради описания альтернативного варианта истории.Мистер Бастэйбл упорно представляется в качестве эда
После прочтения аннотации единственная мысль, жалобно трепетавшая в голове — это что за бред?!Но повествование, стоит признать, не оставляет настолько бредового ощущения.
Китайские, для Китая, но на общем абсурдном фоне это мелочи, поскольку учёные всех стран, объеди...
Да, и никого не смущает, что буквально за день до этих мультиков оный мистер Бастэйбл утверждал, что ступит на корабль лишь для побега.
Кстати, примерно в ту же ночь, когда мистер Бастэйбл поменял своё мировоззрение, правительство тамошнего Китая внезапно перестало опасаться оккупации и позволило ввести на свою территорию вооружённые силы сразу всех стран.
The Warlord Of The Air is the story of Oswald Bastable, a man from 1902, who is mysteriously jolted out of his own time, and into the world of the (then) present, 1973.
Wells, and other writers of the time, often started a story with the premise of it being a recounting of events - either the story is being told to another character, or the narrator is committing remembered events to paper.
The difference between the two though, is the world of The Warlord Of The Air is much more integral to the main character's emotional arc, which kept me much more engaged in the story.
