https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10677277-article-5
I am very sorry if I gave anyone false hope with my earlier updates on this but I was also misled by the beginning of the book. What seemed like a potentially interesting dystopian world became little more than a roadtrip filled with teen romance and angst. It seems that dystopia is the hottest new setting for romance novels, because really, that's exactly what the author was writing. It was only made into a dystopia because of the current trending of this genre.I mean, let us ask one of the ve
It was only made into a dystopia because of the current trending of this genre.I mean, let us ask one of the very basic questions that need to be asked when dealing with a dystopian novel: how and why did this alternate world happen?
I hate it when really ridiculous things happen in order to move the plot in a certain direction but just end up sounding so unrealistic, like when Ember decides to leave Chase.
My point being that I never thought for one second that Chase's actions were unjustified.And so most of the novel is a romance with an annoying heroine...
leave them to people who can really build a satisfying world!and it's not dreadful - i never wanted to stop reading it, but it doesn't bring anything new to the genre.how did we get here???at least try to come up with something, please.
why are things the way they are, why are people being executed for these infractions?
what happened and who is in charge and why do the rules keep changing and how and when and wtf??throw me a bone, here.
this is one of my biggest pet peeves in books, where sooo many things could have been avoided with a single conversation.
come to my blog!
Don't worry, I don't think it ruins anything since it was obvious from the beginning anyway.The Plot:I'm not sure I could ever consider Article 5 a dystopian novel.
I think it is more accurate to call it a Dystopian Romance novel since most of the plot and major twists largely depends on Ember and Chase's relationship.
The ending finally has Ember thinking, "Hey, I live in a really wrong society, maybe I should start using my brain?" By that time, even though I'm happy she's finally come to this revelation, I'm like,Article 5 had the perfect premise, especially with the way things are going in the US.
A world where being born from an unwed mother can get you killed - or worse.
It simply makes it a book that keeps you reading until you turn the very last page.
As someone who's read a lot of dystopians, this one still stands out and brings about a new shocking world that can't help but fascinate you.
It's not a fun dystopian like Divergent or Uglies where you get a cheerful rush from the new exciting future before it turns ugly.
As a dystopian, Article 5 delivers with a gruesome world, non stop action and heart pounding energy.
Here I am, about to dish out a scathing review on this book, and I made the mistake of looking at the author's profile picture.
Why do the guys always put up with this kind of immaturity?And good grief, why oh why do we have to suffer through an entire book where the main characters can't hold a regular conversation because they're so hung up on what they think the other one thinks?
And I don't want to look!One of the things that irritated me the most about Ember was her whole obsession with her mom.
Half-explained, carelessly over-looked details were missing throughout the book, making it feel jerky and incomplete.
I couldn't continue.
I really, really wanted to but the book was really driving me crazy.
I made it to 63% so I really tried.
Review coming soon.
I just need to read something else before I review this so I'm not so irritated in my review.Ok..
I just wrote this in comments and I figure it can hold me over until I write a review later....The majority of the reviews on this book are outstanding.
see this is me ranting...
that is why I need to wait to actually write a non-ranting review.
Article 5 is so packed with action and twists and turns that it's sometimes hard to breathe.
The dystopian world, filled with its cruel laws and even crueler people, is one that sucks you in and makes you SO thankful that you don't live there.I loved everything about Ember and Chase!
Intensely heart-pounding, original, and action-packed, Article 5 was a debut that gripped me from the first page and left me breathless until the last!
It's everything that an amazing dystopian book should be.
Definitely a book you need to buy!!


If the book is rather lacking in explanation (and it is), it does a decent job of creating a stifling atmosphere of control and surveillance by a regressive right-wing government.During a systematic sweep of the nation to reinstate strict moral codes and “reform” it’s citizens to traditional gender and family roles, Ember Miller and her mother fall afoul of “article 5” of the Moral Statutes, by virtue of Ember’s illegitimacy.
It’s a fast paced story and a relatively quick read, with compelling stakes and an ending that avoids cliffhangers, yet leaves the way open for Simmons to further develop her characters and the world they live in.
I can't wait for Breaking Point!The main character, Ember Miller, wasn't a bad character.
I mean, we don't know much about her other than she has a mother, two best friends, and likes to read Frankenstein.
I really did think Ember was a good character.
Little note: I especially hope we see this certain character, Sean, in the second book.
Which is something most book lovers like and expect once in a while.
But, just a tip, read this book when you are in the mood for it or the plot and characters could get annoying pretty fast.I really, really liked Article 5.
ARTICLE 5.
I didn't know what that was going into the book, obviously.
But now that I do, I'm irritated just looking at the words!
The injustices described in this novel are horrifying.
Gut-wrenching.
Tragic.
They elicit reaction.
After Simmons settles you into the unfair world of Ember Miller, she takes you on a crazy, world-widening survival ride.
If you like post-apocalyptic survival stories, this book is for you.
And oh, I don't usually say this, but, there was something about Chase Jennings.
But there was something very...capable...about Chase.
Because he's Chase Jennings.
She reprimands Chase for trying to kill a man who would have hurt her, she tries to run away, and trusts all the wrong people, conveniently putting herself in danger so many times that Chase is forced to play "knight in shining armor".So what if it's been years since you last saw the guy and he isn't acting sappy in love anymore?
Sometimes, I just wish I could love all the romance stories and then I wouldn't have to disappointed so much.
As soon as I ended a chapter, I just HAD to know what happens next (this is why I ended up staying up until 4 in the morning to finish this book).
I honestly wasn't really looking forward to reading this book.
Yeah, I heard about it everywhere and had wanted to read it, but it wasn't on the top of my list.
*sigh* I find these types of stories so cute.- This book was very easy to read.
Lately, I've having a hard time reading some books.
By the end of the book, she was braver than anyone else in the story.- Chase.
It almost read like someone who was telling a story about what happened to her in the past, and so I thought the voice really fit.
This might be a problem in books where there are a lot of prominent characters, like the Nightshade series, but Article 5 was mostly narration and internal dialog, with two main characters that did the speaking, so it worked great.
I loved Ember's character, she went through so many ups and downs in Article 5, she was always a trooper.
Multiple times!Chase was an excellent addition to this book.
I liked how the author wrote Chase's character.
I’ve read so many excellent books recently, I’d forgotten what it was like to read a less than mediocre book.This was a less than mediocre book.I had high hopes for it given the many 5* reviews of it on Goodreads. What a disappointment. Let me be clear: this is not the new ‘Hunger Games’. This isn’t even THG’s inferior cousin.Where to start?What caused the War? Who’s in charge? Why did things change? These are all questions that need to be answered to give a “realistic” dystopian setting. In or
Every good adventure/thriller/novel has the main characters and then the supporting characters which you know just enough about to care about and look forward to them making a recurring appearance.
What few recurring characters there are, you don’t care about and then the other characters mentioned (Beth, Ryan who seem likeable and even interesting) are mentioned at the beginning, never to appear again.And then the characters we do have: Ember and Chase.
It takes a fair chunk of the book before you get to see what’s really going on in that head of his.Which brings me to the Chase/Ember relationship.
Seventeen year old Ember is mortified when her mother is arrested and sent to trial for having a child outside of marraige.
Ember is sent to a reform school complete with guards, locked gates and a cruel headmistress.
On top of that Ember is heartbroken that the boy she once loved - Chase is the soldier that arrested her mother and sent her to reform school.
Ember manages to escape with the help of Chase and together they try to rescue her mother whilst hiding from the authorties, who have put a price on their recapture.
I am not quite sure why things got so corrupted but they did and now everyone must live by a set of impossible rules set to “help” their country become “one whole family” Ember tries to live by the rules as much as she can, but when soldiers come knocking on her door to take her mom away for violating article 5, having a baby out of wedlock, everything flies out the window.
I will give a warning though, this book is way more of a romance than a dystopia and maybe that is why I loved it so much.
I think Article 5 had a lot of potential, but ultimately, it simply fell flat as so many other dystopian – no, sorry,  dystomances  - seem to be doing lately.In a futuristic world where compliance is mandatory, rights and laws as we know it have been replaced with a set of austere regulations known as the Moral Statutes.
Ember actually runs away from Chase, the one character in this novel who has jeopardized his career and reputation in the attempt to  keep her alive,  twice!
From page one, I was sucked into the cruel and harsh world that Kristen Simmons has created and was taken on a thrilling and heart-stomping journey – one that only made me want more!Ever since the soldiers took over parts of America, Ember Millers life has changed drastically.
And now I know, 2013 is going to be an even longer wait because I’m dying to know what happens next.Kristen Simmons has created a master piece with Article 5 and she has truly been able to capture the intensity of Ember’s world.
Overdoing the inessential elements and under-doing to ones that could've made me fall in love with this book.
Yup, I'm that mad at this once promising book that I'm bringing in the dreaded maths.
I was honestly hooked from the beginning, with the action and just digging right into the pages.
This was what I least expecting from a blood bath- looking book.
Some books are fantastic when driven by love, for example, Black City By Elizabeth Richards, but this was a complete, pardon me but, disaster.Then why, as I've been bagging this book for the last 3 paragraphs, have I given it 2 flimsy stars?
No, Article 5 pretty much starts from the get-go with Ember and her mother being dragged away because her mother broke one of the Moral Statutes.
And it just so happens that one of the heartless guards dragging them away is none other than the boy she'd given her heart to, Chase.Ember is a great heroine, she's feisty and fights the system as soon as they grab her.
The action and plot twists were pretty much non-stop in Article 5, and there were few parts of the story where Ember and Chase could even take a breath.
World-Building I feel like we were playing a game of hide and seek and this book was too good at the game.
How did America go from the land of the free to a country of bigotry, misogyny, and some sort of war-torn hellhole?
America hasn't been outright invaded since the War of 1812.
-When does this take place?-How does stopping the War have to do with throwing away everything our country stands for?Many questions, which must have been hiding too.
I didn't feel Ember's motivation to save her mother the way how I felt Katniss's determination to protect Prim, or Saba's  somewhat stalkerish  desperation to save her twin Lugh.
Two things: 1) I'm at work, and I'm bored and 2) I just can't keep quiet about this book.
Someone (who loved this book) in another review said that there is non-stop action.
Even if I stopped said rescuer from killing said would-be murderer/rapist, I wouldn't then BERATE my rescuer for his actions.
Things are bad for Ember in this book and her morality just doesn't make sense in certain situations.
Chase should have left her on the side of the road and not looked back.Oh yeah, and did I mention that most of the middle of this book was BORING?
If you're writing a novel about the need for feminism, don't make me spend my time with a lead who's weak both mentally and physically.
If we're really going to talk about how this book steps on women, we're going to need to talk about the romance.
Chase spends the entire book ordering Ember around.
Ember describes him as physically terrifying, and yet somehow, in a world where the threat of rape is around every corner, she falls for him anyway.I read this book in a period of time where I actively disliked approximately 2% of books.
Forget my boyfriend, I think I'm gonna spend Valentine's Day reading this.
It was like watching a car wreck happen beside you- You want to look away but you can't.Spoilers ahead:I imagine this world that Simmons has created is something to the effect of what Hitler was going for.
On a nice day Ember comes home to find her Mother breaking the law, she's reading an unauthorized book.
The knock at the door provides her with her worst nighmare, the MM coming to arrest her Mother and take Ember to a Rehab center.
Ember is determined to get out, find her mother and get to a safe house.
But when her ex-boyfriend, and Moral Militia soldier, Chase comes to rescue Ember under the guise of taking her to her mother's trial, Ember's desperate plans to escape come to a frantic tipping point.
This is the best aspect of the novel, as Article 5 is a terrifying glimpse at an entirely possible future America, ravaged by war and turning to religious zeal and militant patriotism, with a focus on the kind of aggressive, fear-inspiring dialogue that rings scarily close to home.
Actual Rating: 2.5 StarsI was really looking forward to this book, and I think that's part of the reason that I stuck out with it until the end.
I'm giving this a rating of 2.5 stars because I can think of more bad things than good in this book.
What irked me most about this book: the main character.
When things get bad, she runs.
He has depth, but I've read many characters like him before, and I kind of wanted something better.At any rate, I built up my expectations for this book and was disappointed.
Do Not Finish at 40 or so pages. I saw this book in the library, I tried to read it, only to find I could hardly make it through the first 40 pages. So bye bye, book.(LINK: http://vampirekiki.deviantart.com/art...)
