https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/181601.If_You_Give_a_Pig_a_Party
Numeroff is going to milk this cash cow for all that it's worth. I had an idea for a new book. "If you give an author a best selling book, she's going to want 50 more just like it."
The original pig and mouse ones are funny, but I'm not a fan of milking ideas dry and I'm afraid that's what this book does.
So, my kid is really into this show and this is the only book of the series that we have. He loves it. We have to read it nearly every night. I think the show is somewhat better than the book at showing teamwork and teaching the lessons.
Text- to-World Connection“If You Give A Pig A Party” is another cute addition to the series of Felicia Bond” If You Give Books”.
Around the world, young children, and adults love having fun.
Many families can relate to this book.
Most moms have parties which can last two days .Unlike the pig the child asking for more activities, such as can I bring a friend to the movies or can I have a sleep over?
I do really think most children read this book before they ask for a party.
The picture in this book let you see all the fun Pig.
This is another book in the "If you give...book" series.
This book starts out "If you give a pig a party and then goes through a list of things the pig will then want.
This continues through the book and ends with "and chances are she's going to ask you for a party," which is the same way the other books in these series end.
Children seem to love these books and the have the same few characters in the series and the same story idea with just the circumstances different.
If you give a pig a party / Laura Numeroff / 2005Genre: fictionFormat: picture bookPlot Summary: One thing leads to another when you give a pig a party.Considerations: noneReview Citation:Booklist, vol 102, number 4"Part of a series...young fans of the series will squeal with delight to see their pancake-loving pig once again."Selection Source: BooklistRecommended age: 3-6
A wonderful read from my childhood, one I’d certainly suggest for other youngsters. Whilst it is not my all-time favourite childhood read I can still recall all the details of this one meaning it certainly left a lasting impression upon my young mind. And isn’t that what we want with children’s books, for them to leave a positive lasting impression?
This book was about a pig and she put on a party.She wanted her friends to come so she went to go find them at the street fair.Yes i did like the book because it was funny and it looked like they had a great time.I think my 2 grade buddy would like this book because she loves to read books like this one.
Another in the If you give... series by the collaborative team of Laura Joffe Numeroff and Felicia Bond. It's a fun story, as are all of the others, and the charming illustrations only add a bit of whimsy to the story.
This book is alsome
The pig then asks to decorate and invite all of her friends.
3 book topic ideas1.) This book could be good to relate to students about a party they once had and if their friends were invited.
2.) This book is a good example of sequence events, students could write a story with a sequence of events or identify the sequence of events in the story.
3.) This book is also a good example of a cause and effect book where students could start to work on cause and effect writing or identifying cause and effect in stories.
Another beloved If You Give a blank a blank book.
Personally, I love these types of books, I find them so adorable.
These books all give me a sense of nostalgia, and sometimes it makes me sad, but when I get to spread the beauty to children it gives me a piece of my childhood back and brings happiness.
I read to the kids in my practicum class the other day, and kids were rowdy, but as soon as I started reading it was like a magic flip, the kids loved this story.
This book is similar to the famous Mouse a Cookie book, but has some really cool things for my almost 2-year-old.The best page is when the pig plays hide and seek and the reader can search for all the different animal friends.
My kid is learning numbers and so it's fun to look at that page too.The pictures are a lot of fun and are unique.(As a mom and reader of lots of picture books, I've come to appreciate good art and I like it when the illustrators don't reuse pictures one book to the next).
This is a story about a greedy little pig who wants everything after given something else. I recommend this book to young children and children that are learning how to read. The story is enjoyable, easy to read, and understand. The book also explains cause and effect. If you give someone this then this will happen. The illustrations are bright, colorful, and very detailed. I really enjoy how the end of the book ties to the beginning of the book. Kids will really enjoy this book and can relate to it.
This book is with the same character as pig a pancake and of coarse the pig is having a party so it wants balloons then to decorate the house and so on. This book is similar to all the other ones in the series just want a different theme and a different character. I love all of these books. Laura Numeroff is so creative with her style and how she creates a huge story over a simple character. Will never stop loving all of her books.
This story is about a pig who wants to throw a party because the main character gave her some balloons. The story goes through the motions of pig wanting to throw a party.The pig goes to a carnival with her friends who eventually come over to her house for a party. This story is silly and appropriate for younger children. I would definitely recommend it for elementary school classrooms.
Genre: Picture BookCopyright Date: 2005Thoughts: I love the series of "If you give a pig a.." books. They are just good, fun picture books that you know will bring smiles. Classroom Use: This is just a fun read! Could bring up discussions about how different students celebrate their birthdays or other parties that they might have.
This book is full of imagination and colors. In a class discussion this book may allow me to teach the children what can be done while planning a party. As well as how to stay calm in a situation where many things are happening in a short period of time. Although it is a fun and creative book I will probably not use this book to teach.
Same thing. The "if you ..... then..." formula. I find the whole series of books not engaging. One page after another are kind of forced to be each other by glue. If the book ever comes apart in little hands, you wouldn't be able to put it back together without page number, by following the plot line. After the first page, it could be any page really.
Same formula as all the other "If you give a [ ] a [ ]". Maybe I have read "If You Give a Mouse a Cookie" too many times, but once you read one of these, you really don't need to add another into your life.
I've read a great many of the "If You Give A..." series, and every kid that's come through my daycare has LOVED them as well. It's so much fun to watch their eyes light up at the colorful pictures, and how much they can relate as they bounce around from object to object.
I really love this series and that they now have changes of characters, while still keeping the essence of the books, and also featuring the other animals from the series. I feel this is an absolute must read for kids. The familiar sequence, while still being different, is great.
Not a fan of these books because they show no attention, self discipline or ability to complete a task.
A fun and entertaining story to read that certainly keeps children engaged! It usually makes my Kindergarteners giggle.
This was just as charming, endearing, and entertaining as If You Give a Mouse a Cookie.
This was one of my favorite books when I was little. I had forgotten about it. I adored this book.
I like this book because it helps my kids learn more things so it makes their minds grow
Such a cute story, I love this author's books!!! ☺
I loved these books as a kid. Love the illustrations and the creative, silly story
A well written spin off to the original "If you Give a Mouse." The illustrations are bright, and catch my young child's interest. The font could have been a little bigger.
