https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/616650.Prayers_for_Children
Morning PrayerNow before I run to play,Let me not forget to prayTo God who kept me through the nightAnd wakes me with his morning light.Help me, Lord, to love Thee moreThan I have ever loved before,In my work and in my play,Be Thou with me through the day.AmenPrayers for Children, illustrated by Eloise Wilkin, p.
She loves to memorize and recite prayers and this is such a precious time and set of memories for me that was helped to form and be created from the organization and recommendations of the Memoria Press Junior Kindergarten Curriculum.
Read to me by parents, and to my children by me. Great thing - should be more of those things.
this book would be a great book for the cancer center
This sweet book contains several poetic prayers by various authors.
Some are prayers for safety, some are prayers of gratitude, but they all have a sense of a relationship with, dependency on, and respect for God. The pictures are lovely and quite detailed.
Most pictures have a fancy border around them.
The book was first published in 1952 and some of the poems are older than that, so the language is older- more flowery and biblical.
Each prayer rhymes, so despite the grand language it flows well.
In the back of the book one of the poems has been adapted into a song that can be played on the piano.
Let's pretend, just for a moment, that the Christian religion was not invented by Roman aristocrats as a way to control the masses (especially the poor). Now, follow along in your best zombie voice, kids: "Our Father, Who art in heaven..."
2010: My 18-month-old baby loves this book (she's a fan of Eloise Wilkin). She loves the pictures of the "babies." The little prayers in verse are very nice bedtime reading, even though we don't pray exactly that way. It's like reading hymns.
What a little precious book!Despite the aim at children, the prayers and prose are wide reaching and soul stirring.
I colored on the pages of my first copy of this. I adore the illustrations. Reading it is like eating comfort food.
Bible 7 (4)
Beautifully written and illustrated This book is appropriate for children of all ages and is written in poetry style prayer accompanied by precious and applicable illustrations. A true classic from Golden Books, it is a favorite in my home.
I read this a lot when I was little.
Christian based prayers. All of the prayers I know are included in this book. Includes music notes at the back of the book to the Evening Prayer.
A sweet kids book
Prayers for ChildrenWilkin, EloiseThis book is a great support for teaching religious practice at home
A great little book for all ages.
I did not recognize a single prayer in this collection so found it hard to enjoy reading to my daughter.
