https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9712.Love_in_the_Time_of_Cholera
The lesson men can take from this book is that if a woman says "no" (as Fermina frequently and clearly says to Florentino), she really means, "make me change my mind." NOPE.
IT IS NOT ROMANTIC TO OBSESS ABOUT HER FOR FIFTY YEARS, IT IS CREEPY.And OF COURSE Florentino still fucks anything that moves while claiming to be in love with Fermina, because he is a man and that's just how it works.
Lying there on the rocks, her body covered with cuts and bruises, she had wanted that man to stay forever so she could die of love in his arms."...Once more with feeling: NOPE.AND THEN, as the creepy pedophilic cherry on top of this rape sundae, Florentino's last affair is with a child.

And the tone of the book seemed to be saying that that's expected - quite frankly, like the more sex a person has, most of the time with the more people, the more normal and in some ways the more gifted they are.
Because not being sure what a book was saying is not usually the book's fault.In some ways it should have been titled "Sex in the Time of Cholera," because the term "love" was used instead of "sex" almost constantly, and obviously, those are two very different things.
الرواية التي حارب فيها ماركيز الزمن*المراجعة بها حرق للأحداث* الكوليرا داءوالحب داءكلاهما يغير حياة المرءكلاهما يعلن حربا شرسة ووحشيةكلاهما قاس وفتاك وكلاهما يستهلك صاحبهتقول والدة فلورينتو في لحظة تأمل” ..الحب شبيه بالكوليرا ..“ الحرب والكوليرا والحبكلهم يطهرون المرء بطريقتهيعيدون تشكيل من يصاب بأي منهمولكن الحب حرب ضد الموتوهو من يضمن لصاحبه الخلودعكس الوباء وعكس الحرب والقتالفلورنتينو في النهاية يتخلص من باقي المسافرين على المركب الذي يحمله وحبيبته العجوز بخدعة أن السفينة أصاب من عليها وباء ا


He rationalizes his behavior in whatever way he can, so he never feels that he is doing anything wrong.I grew impatient with him fairly quickly; I wanted to wring him by his neck and yell, "GET OVER IT!!!" I have no tolerance for that kind of behavior.Sometime during the Seduction of the 600, it says that Florentino Ariza thought that when a woman said no, she really meant something else (that's a paraphrase).
236. El amor en los tiempos del cólera = Love in the time of cholera, Gabriel García MárquezLove in the Time of Cholera (Spanish: El amor en los tiempos del cólera) is a novel by Nobel prize winner Colombian author Gabriel García Márquez first published in Spanish in 1985. Alfred A. Knopf published an English translation in 1988, and an English-language movie adaptation was released in 2007. The main characters of the novel are Florentino Ariza and Fermina Daza. Florentino and Fermina fall in lo
The main characters of the novel are Florentino Ariza and Fermina Daza.
Even after Fermina's engagement and marriage, Florentino swore to stay faithful and wait for her.
After the funeral, Florentino proclaims his love for Fermina once again and tells her he has stayed faithful to her all these years.
Urbino's function in the novel is to contrast with Florentino Ariza and his archaic and boldly romantic love.
Urbino proves in the end not to have been an entirely faithful husband, confessing one affair to Fermina many years into their marriage.
This review is now also available at The Bombay Literary Magazine (TBLM): The Infinite Capacity for Illusion  The words I am about to express:They now have their own crowned goddess.  THE INFINITE CAPACITY FOR ILLUSION Whither The Magic? One Hundred Years of Solitude  is one of my favorite novels. Which is why, when I started reading Love in the Time of Cholera, one of the things I noticed immediately was the lack of the subtle brand of magic that I had so enjoyed. I missed it and was on the loo
I think it is because of the Quixotic Heroism of the people who populate these doomed worlds.It is this heroism that veils the Apocalyptic forebodings that pack so densely like storm clouds throughout the firmament his novels.After all, Consider how during the entire time he waits to talk to Fermina again (fifty-one years, nine months, and four days) Florentine Ariza is dauntless and never ever gives up even the slightest sliver of hope.
I learned that I will never be a great writer, because sometimes, there are people like Marquez, who manage to write such an amazing piece of art without making it ponderous, pretentious, or difficult.
The way the story is told is segue-free, almost conversational, but with such sumptuous detail and description, that it can only be explained as an absolute justification specifically for the written word.
No other format for this story would be good enough.
It made me crave to read it in the original Spanish, though.
Amazing book.
Please read it.


I feel suspicious about the fact that I didn't fall for this book the way Florentino Ariza fell for Fermina Daza.
As a synesthete, I found Florentino Ariza and Fermina Daza's names to be WAY too similar.
For example (not real quotes) "This particular bed-fellow was the closest thing to love that Florentino Ariza ever experienced apart from Fermina Daza." Turn the page, now talking about a brand new lover, "Now, as it turns out, THIS particular bed-fellow was actually the closest things to love that FA experienced apart from FD." Next chapter, another new lover "Okay, SERIOUSLY, this is the one this time"...
This was not the book for me. I know a lot of people give it praise and it is considered a classic, but I never got into it.It rambled . . . it was repetitive . . . I got bored.What was supposed to be a story about love seemed to be more about twisted obsession and I never found it endearing. None of the characters were all that great and I pretty much found myself feeling sorry for everyone.I was thankful when I was done.
Confession lost breath in a wave of condescension; But my knees found strength even in that repudiation;For I never lost my heart as per a plan,For I never sang a song as a sound man.Delusional, I wandered into many seductive doors;Recluse, I made love, with artifice galore.
بالرغم من النحس المبالغ فيه المصاحب لمحاولاتي لإنهاء الرواية ، إلا إنها رااااااااااائعة ومذهلة ، عمري في حياتي ما اتسرقت في الحكاية قد ما اتسرقت في الرواية دي ، دخل بيا من حدوتة لحدوتة ، أحداث قديمة في أحداث جديدة ، رغم إن فيرمينا داثا هي في رأيي بطلة الرواية إلا إنه ما حكاش عنها قد ما حكى عن عشيقها المجنون فعلياً بيها ، حبيت أوي الدكتور أوربينو ، وعجبتني جداً فيرمينا ، ماحبيتش فليورينتو آريثا إلا لما فيرمينيا بدأت تتقبله في آخر الرواية مشكلته مش انه حبها لدرجة الجنون ، مشكلته ان حياته كانت من غير هدف ، ولما قابلها خلاها هدف حياته اللي عايش عشانه ، احتقرت جداً اللي عمله مع امريكا فيونكا .عميقة أووووي الرواية ، علمتني كتير..
متهيألي إني ما قرأتهاش ..
أنا عشت فيها
Then he saw a girl, the most beautiful in the world to him, Fermina Dada, daughter of a man with money, and a dubious reputation, ( he was secretly a former mule driver) involved in shady dealings, in the mountains, who desires that Fermina marry into a rich, distinguished family, bringing respectability to him too.
But Mr. Ariza is so in love, nobody in history is more so, that he literally becomes severely sick, his distraught mother , thinks he's going to die...
Florentino spies on the girl, while she walks with her Aunt Escolastica, the sister of Mr.Dada to school and back.
كانت تبدو له جميلة جدا.
فاتنة جدا.
و مختلفة جدا عن الناس العاديين.
بحيث لا يدرك كيف لا يختل الأخرون مثله بصناجات كعبيها على بلاط الشارع.
و لا تضطرب قلوبهم بهواء تنهدات كشكشها.
و لا يصاب العالم كله بالجنون حبا بحركة ضفيرتها و طيران يديها.
و لجين ضحكتها.
و أنت في حضرة الماركيز لا تتوقف عن الانبهار في كل لحظة.
انه لا يحكي بقدر ما يبث لك من أحداث بل يجعلك تراها رأي العين.
ليس ذلك فحسب و لكنه أيضا يطلعك على ما في النفوس و يجلي خفايا القلوب بسرد بسيط و مسترسل لا تكلف فيه و لا عناء و كأنه أنفاس حسناء
ليس ذلك فحسب و لكنه أيضا يطلعك على ما في النفوس و يجلي خفايا القلوب بسرد بسيط و مسترسل لا تكلف فيه و لا عناء و كأنه أنفاس حسناء مستغرقة في النوم.
و الخف الذي كان يبدو لها دوما و كأنه خف مريض.
كانت تتوقف عن أي عمل تقوم به و تضرب جبهتها بكفها لأنها تذكرت فجأة شيئا نسيت أن تخبره به و ترد في ذهنها في كل لحظة الأسئلة اليومية الكثيرة التي لا يستطيع الإجابة عنها أحد سواه.
لقد قال لها في أحد الأيام شيئا لم تستطع تصوره: ان المبتورين يحسون آلاما و خدرا و دغدغة في أرجلهم التي لم ما عادوا يمتلكونها.
Marquez shines as a comic genius of irony (the significance of cholera to this book is, itself, genius storytelling) and critical examiner of human relationships.
The world is much broader than our silly little individual plights, my friends, and the experience of love changes if you are to ask an old woman, young man, or adolescent girl to define it.
Marquez captures each of their stories, and more, and never asks that his reader compare these to their own experience of love, he simply describes them and includes them in Love's definition.I find the courtship between Fermina and Florentino dazzling and spot-on.
"Love in the Time of Cholera" is fine literature.
Remember me with a rose. That pressed flower kept long ago in a favorite book did not appear conceited of its appearance. There was no sheen, no fragrance, no guard of pricking thorns and yet it carried a delightful reminder of a time when the first wary step towards love awakened feverish fantasies about a world where poets find their rhymes, writers find their stories and romantics find the gleeful manifestation of an incurable disease. So when I read about a 'Love' which bloomed and survived
So when I read about a 'Love' which bloomed and survived in the time of Cholera, I knew that such flowers will also remind me of the singular passion of Florentino Ariza.In a distant land with no personal ties, in a former century with no wistful years; an inadvertent disquiet loomed over my heart when death greeted me on the very first page.
And not very far away from them, Florentino Ariza’s long wait was waiting for its end while his virgin heart diligently registered the beats which were solely preserved for Fermina.
مبدئياً : العنوانحينما كنت أسمع عن " الحب فى زمن الكوليرا " كنت أقول لابد أنها رواية مأساوية تتحدث عن حب بين اثنين فى ظروف صعبة ومعدمة وفى جو يعكر صفاء الحب بينهما الفقر المدقع ، ومما يزيد الأمر مأساوية هو أن يصاب احدهما بالكوليرا ، ويتوالى الصراع بين الحب والموت ، الحب والفقر ، الحب والمرض ..إلخوبذلك تكون الرواية رائعة ..لإنه بالتأكيد ماركيز _وكنت قد سمعت عنه كثيراً بأنه عالمى،ولم تنجب الرواية مثله من قبل_ سيتناولها بأسلوبه الذى هو قطعاً ساحر وعالمى وبشكل سيجعل دموعى تفيض أنهاراً من بؤس الأبطال ومأساوية الحكاية..فأفاجأ بأنه ليس هناك من مأساة من هذا النوع على الإطلاق ..ولنترك العنوان ولنتحدث عن صلب الموضوع ولكن في البداية أحب أن أستطرد في الحديث عن شيء ما..إننى لتكاد تنفجر مرارتى ، ويقف قلبى معاناة بسبب هؤلاء الذين يتنادون بالقيمة والهدف والرسالة والمضمون الذى يحمله الأدب وما إلى ذلك ..
One Hundred Years of Solitude is one of my all time favorites and I did not expect to enjoy Love in the Time of Cholera as much as that book - probably because of all the hype it's received on it's 20th anniversary and as a result of Oprah lauding it.
Specific to this book, I love that once the story was told, I could think back through the novel and realize that the love story in question is really just a metaphor for cholera (or is it vice versa?) and the havoc it wreaked for decades on the characters' Caribbean homeland.
The notion which becomes as chronic as the Cholera itself and which leaves its patient a midst a ceaseless mourning?It seems so to be the case with Florentino Ariza, who, for more than half a century, attires himself as one in mourning of a rejected love while still trying to fight the disease in his own manner, invoking in as much as 622 remedies till he attains the one which can cure him of his illness.
For how a human can possibly remain at peace with so many love (sexual?) relations when it takes a whole life time to come to terms with even one, as is the case with Fermina Daza.
I did not enjoy this at all.
This is a book about a weak man excessively obsessed with a married woman for over 50 years.
He pines his time away with 622 sexual encounters that he records and we have to read through.
The book is SLOW!
He is sickly obsessed.
He finally is reunited with his true love when she is in her 80's and then he describes their bodies and love life.
This is not what true love is...it is a book about obsession and weakness.
Wasted my time when there are so many wonderful books out there to read!
Love in the Time of Cholera is about: unrequited love (Florentino for Fermina); marital love (Fermina and Juvenal); platonic love (Florentino and Leona); angry love (Florentino and the poet who makes him so furious); jealous love (the adulterous wife killed because of her affair with Florentino); young love (Florentino and Fermina in the beginning); dangerous love (the mental patient and Florentino); adulterous love (Juvenal and his affair, Florentino and many of his women); love from afar (Florentino and Fermina); elderly love (Florentino and Fermina, Fermina and Juvenal; the cyanide suicide); May-December love (Florentino and his ward); the relationship between sex, age, society, art, death and love (pretty much the whole book).
http://more2read.com/?review=love-in-the-time-of-cholera-by-gabriel-garcia-marquez
Márquez weaves a rich, dense and unbroken interplay of themes – death, decay, sacrifice, patience, desire, obsession, wars, modernity, experiments on your sense of smell etc – in a story whose each part reads like a whole to inform on the essential romance of two, or three, protagonists inhabiting the wild heart of life.To tell the story of Florentino Ariza and Fermina Daza (how I love these poetic, smooth-sailing, metrical Hispanic names) Márquez does not need those abundant magical realist tricks up his sleeve; in this case he relies on his prodigious capacity to create an internal logic that, despite its unearthly stretch, enchants and entrances and bamboozles you with its powers of persuasion.
I first read this about a decade ago and loved it.
I read Love in the Time of Cholera shortly after reading Lolita, which was also disturbing.
Η ικανότητα του να φτιάχνει ολόκληρους κόσμους, να σκιαγραφεί τους χαρακτήρες του, να μιλάει με τόση τρυφερότητα και να παρατηρεί καταστάσεις όπως τον έρωτα, το πάθος, την αγάπη, τον θάνατο, τα γηρατεία, τον γάμο και τη μοναξιά με τέτοια φαντασία, λογική και σοφία παράλληλα, είναι τα στοιχεία που με γοήτευσαν και υπάρχουν και εδώ.
Τσεκάρετε λίγο τα παρακάτω (αγαπημένα) αποσπάσματα για να πειστείτε‘’Ξαφνικά στον μεγάλο καθρέφτη στο βάθος, είδε την Φερμίνα Δάσα καθισμένη στο τραπέζι με τον άντρα της και δύο ακόμα ζευγάρια, από μια γωνία που μπορούσε να την παρατηρεί καθρεφτισμένη σε όλο της το μεγαλείο.
ما الحب إلا للحبيب الأول.عمل تقليدي جدًا , بسيط جدا , بديع جدًا.العمل عن قصة حب ولكن ليست كأي قصة , فهي قصة اليائس فى حبه الآمل منه في نفس الوقت .قصة من عاش حياته كلها لملذاته ولشهوته ولكنه مازال يربط قلبه بحبل دقيق تركه واثقًا في العودة إلى الحب الأولِ.تناول مذهل للعواطف الإنسانية مع عمق نفسي رائع يضعك مكان شخصياته , بل وكأنه يحكي عن مواقف تعرضت أنت لها من فرط دقته وروعة وصفه.قصة الحب التقليدية التي استمرت عقود تحت النار إلى أن نُجت ومنحت الحياة لتؤجج مشاعر أطرافها , قدمها لك الكاتب متكاملة لم يغفل تفصيلة واحدة منها.اللحظة اللي (فيرمينا داثا ) نظرت فيها إلى فلورينتينو وقالت له : لا , أرجوك ,انس كل شئ هي لحظة الرفض الأكثر كلاسيكية ومتعة قرأتها في حياتي .
Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Love in the Time of Cholera: "it was inevitable: The smell of bitter almonds always reminded him of the fate of unrequited love."I saved my favorite opening phrase for my last.
When we realize that cyanide smells like bitter almonds, this phrase opens like a lotus flower revealing an amazing amount of depth, sensuality, and irony.
I have always found that this apparently simple phrase was plump with meaning and perfectly suited to the book it introduces - perhaps the most perfect opening line I have ever found.
Reading Gabriel Garcia Marquez’s Love in Time of Cholera made me understand one thing.
It is because people associate sex with love.
Because if the carnal flesh heightens the experience of love.
Florentino Ariza’s love is the epitome of Cholera.
According to his younger brother, Jaime, he had been suffering from complications caused by chemotherapy, which saved his life but accelerated his dementia, a disease that apparently ran in his family.
It is a love that blossomed in a time where death domains, in time not only of Cholera but in time of mortality.
The scent of death, of Cholera destroyed all inhibition that hindered their love.
