https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89323.Joe_Hill
"I dreamed I saw Joe Hill last night, alive as you and me." So goes the Woody Guthrie song about the legend of a union man.
And he was dedicated to the organizing of One Big Union.
You can feel the squalor of a sweltering tent encampment where families of pickers live beside hops fields near Sacramento without the benefit of hope of a better life or basic sanitary facilities.
He lives on as legend through his songs and the stories that are told about him.
We could use a man of courage like Joe Hll, willing to fight for workers rights, even today.
This is a book about Joe Hill, the Union Organiser and Wobbly Bard who was executed in 1915 in Salt Lake City, Utah.
He of the famous son, sung in the 60's by Joan Baez, "I dreamed I saw Joe Hill last night, alive as you and me...".My edition is actually a Penguin edition not shown - which I got from Nile.This is a strange blend of fact and fiction, man and myth written by a wonderful author whose books have recently occupied many hors while in bed sick.
Stegner creates a full bloodied portrait of Joe and other characters like Lund.
This was the third book I have read recently that speaks about the violent social upheaval in the 1910s surrounding the start of the labor movement. Interesting to see how unions emerged and then have largely disappeared in 100 years. In the process, I also learned that my mother’s assisted living tablemate is the niece of famous Wobbly martyr, Wesley Everest, who was lynched in Centralia, WA in 1919 following a Veterans Day clash with American Legionnaires. I think I have now read all of Stegner's books.
The book originally was called "The Preacher and the Slave"; the simpler, later title probably was a reaction to Hill's revival as a folk icon in the 1960s, but also happens to reflect Stegner's portrayal of Hill isolated as an agitator — it reflects the writer's homing in on the man over the movement — and it sets the stage for the novel's final third, when Hill is jailed in Salt Lake City, either a martyr to law's blindness or a double-murderer, but in any event feeling very much alone even as he feels his death will lead to a larger, greater good.
Hill (also known as Joseph Hillstrom) was a Swedish laborer who emigrated to the U.S., traveling across country from New York to the West Coast and serving as an organizer and songwriter for the International Workers of the World (IWW), also known as the “Wobblies” or the “One Big Union.” He ended up in Utah in 1913, was accused and tried for the murder of a store owner and his son in a robbery attempt by two men in Salt Lake City.
Starting from the twin facts of Stegner being my favorite author and Hill being a figure I am predisposed to like in an organization I have pet sympathies for, this should be my favorite book ever.
The pacing and proportions don't seem very considered; and while there were a couple properly transcendent Stegnerian passages in there, they didn't have the same buoyancy as ones I still remember from Angle of Repose and Wolf Willow, and didn't come as often.
I just got the overall impression this may have been a dashed-off labor of love that he may not even have intended for publication but just couldn't stop coming back to.
I read this book because it happened to be on the must-read list of my favorite band at the time - Rage Against the Machine.
Yes, I will concede that it was an arguably poor reason to read the book, but this book will be forever in my list of favorites.
The book is the fictional account of the life and times of Joe Hill - famous union organizer and songwriter.
The book gives such a human and ultimately relatable voice to its hero.
In this book, Joe is portrayed as a reluctant leader struggling with his own personal demons and sense of self.
This is a fictionalized biography of Joseph Hillstrom, aka Joe Hill, of the Industrial Workers of the World. I'd read a straight biography years before--a gift from my brother, Fin. This, while much more highly interpretative, is an interesting supplement to the historical facts, a very well-written one.
Beautiful, complicated insight into the early 1900's labor movement and the psychology of a "voice of the movement".
Not a biography, but a fill in the blanks biographical novel about one of the more interesting characters in Utah history (unknown to most Utahns but memorialized on a mural on the side of Ken Sanders Rare Bookstore), Stephen King's son's namesake, labor organizer, songwriter, and convicted murderer Joe Hill. Stegner leaves mush of the real life mystery mysterious, but leaves the characters a bit flat. Good, not great.
Third time read. As a teenager, I saw Joe Hill as a hero of mythic proportion. Later as a mid-career public employee I viewed him as an idealist - admirable but with complexities. Now as an embittered old cynic - an individual - a tiny, insignificant widget. Used by both sides of a brutal system to their own ends.
It was worth reading for intimate view of IWW workers and of Joe Hill. The first half of the book had some really lovely writing. Towards the finale, the book dragged on (as did the legal appeals on behalf of Joe Hill).
interesting tale, sometimes a little stodgy, but worth reading. a 3.4
Although Stegner states in the preface that the book is a work of fiction it follows closely the real events of Hill’s story.Hill is a drifter who had been a seaman and a lumber camp worker.
It seems that the IWW is genuinely attempting to save Joe, but that they know that his death will bring significant benefit to their aims.After finishing the book, I took a look at some Wikipedia articles on Joe Hill and it does seem that his legacy that ensued after his execution was a powerful symbol for the cause of the labor movement.
The IWW has barely survived, but the image that Joe Hill left behind continues to animate the supporters of labor.
This "fiction" about a real man deals with the plight of union songwriter/agitator Joe Hill in the 1910's.
In real life he wrote songs for the Industrial Workers of the World calling for a Marxist revolution.
In real life, he was put on trial in Salt Lake City, Utah for the murder of an ex-cop who was working as a shopkeeper.
This book fills in the major gaps in Hill's life with fictional details.
The book was heavily researched, but there is so little known about this poor immigrant, that he takes on the aura of a myth more than a man although Stegner tries hard to humanize him.
Boring and unsympathetic/tone deaf. If I were to write a fictional biography of Ronald Reagan or some other political figure whose ideology is mystifying to me, it would probably turn out like this. I think Stegner considers himself to be sympathetic, but so much of this book is condescending to the ideology underpinning the syndicalist movements of the early 20th century, and he looks for simplistic answers to complex questions (why does a European immigrant get involved in radical organizing given the extreme risks-- he hates his wealthy father. Bleh.).
One of Stegner's books describing historic events, he paints a picture of of a driven, somewhat fanatical IWW activist executed for murder in Utah in 1915. Joe Hill became a martyr for union organizers but Stegner's Joe Hill leaves many rough edges and unanswered questions. Stegner is a master story teller. I'm sure he based some of this on actual records, quotes from newspapers of the day and court records, etc, but his descriptions and dialogues put you in that farm field in Fresno in 1912 or on the picket line in San Pedro.
In he closing statements of the Afterward Stegner clarifies that this book is "Historical Fiction". I must say that is is superb historical fiction...Joe Hillstrom met death by a firing squad in SLC, Ut after being convicted of 1st degree murder. Did he do it? or was he innocent as he proclaimed right until the end? We will never know but what we do know is that Joe Hill was one of the great martyrs connected with the IWW and the cause of labor unions.
I would give this 3.5 stars if I could. A pretty good read about a complicated man/myth. As someone else mentioned, this seems like it may have been a pet project of Stegner's and thus didn't get his full attention. At times it was a bit of a slog but overall it was a well written book with some beautifully written moments we all know Stegner was so capable of crafting.
Excellent book about one of the main characters of the early labor movement in the US. Main character was an organizer for the Industrial Workers of the World (Wobblies). This is an "historical novel" and is an an easy read. I have enjoyed it so far.
A good but not captivating telling of the Joe Hill myth. I would have preferred this to be written as non-fiction but this did allow for some conjecture by the author. I would have given 3.5 starts but that's not an option.My first book by Stegner, I'll try him again.
I am a huge fan of Stegner and although this one took me a while to get into I really liked it in the end. The subject matter was timely and the characters have stuck in my mind. Good one to read if you don't know much about the IWW or Labor Movement.
Good early history of Utah, and the radical labor movement. A lot about his time on death row and execution- may have inspired Norman Mailer in his "Executioner's Song", about another Utah execution.
Beautiful blending of fact and fiction. Engaging story about the labor movement in the early 1900s in America. Fascinating characters. Stegner is a master with words. Highly recommended.
My review from December 18, 2000
One of the few Wallace Stegner I had not read. Very compelling.
A fictionalized account of a rebel in labor union circles in the early 20th century, is made interesting by Wally Stegner's story writing.
Stephen King recommended.
the IWW.what we need now.more'n ever. . .
No my favorite Wallace Stegner, but a very good read and interesting view of the early labor movement and working conditions pre-unions.
