https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23093367-saga-vol-4
Goddamn. This series. It's so good. It has such a density of narrative. Such quality of story.There was a series of four panels that made me burst immediately into tears. Vaughan. What the hell man. How do you keep doing this to me?
I WISH THESE COULD BE LIKE A THOUSAND PAGES LONG
This is a real marriage.Can we please fight about it in the morning?Ok, so now that they aren't running for their lives, the mundane existence of taking care of a family sets in...as it does with a lot of marriages.Alana is working full-time as an actress on this space soap opera, and Marko is staying home with Hazel.
*sigh* It must be a sign...And so it goes...I think Vaughn did a spectacular job of showing how each of them fell off the sparkly marriage wagon just a bit.Alana starts taking drugs (recreationally) to help her fight the crushing pressure of being the only breadwinner, while working long hours at a soul-sucking job.
A lot of people who came into my family's life looking like heroes ended up acting more like villains. I wish I could say the opposite was also true, but that was pretty fucking rare. see, this is why goodreads is so great - i wasn't in love with this volume until i read anne's excellent review, where she recontextualized the story into real-world situations that made me appreciate it so much more with her insights and anecdotes. that woman's got a gift for reviewing, man. she should come back a
see, this is why goodreads is so great - i wasn't in love with this volume until i read anne's excellent review, where she recontextualized the story into real-world situations that made me appreciate it so much more with her insights and anecdotes.
(hide spoiler)]it's a different vibe from the previous books, and there was far too much time spent in robot-ville for me, but it's definitely setting the stage for exciting developments to come.
i wish i'd been reading this series when this was going around because i would have grabbed it like cake.
The only complaint is that I wanted more Lying Cat, but it is PERFECTION. If you haven't read Saga because "everyone always talks about it, and I want to be the lame hipster who finds fault in pop culture," take a selfie, upload it to Instagram, pick out a complimentary filter, set you iPhone 6+ on your rug from Urban Outfitters, jump over the phone and GET OVER YOURSELF. If you aren't reading Saga you are losing at life.
I'M SWALLOWING THESE BOOKS FASTER THAN ALANA DOES FADEAWAY DRUGS.And I don't know about you, but if that wasn't just some fantastic character development and maturity for Marko right there, then Mama Sun's a saint sent straight from the heavens. Would have loved to see more of the other characters than we did, but boOOoOoOoy oh boy am I still invested in this story than ever.I'm coming for you, Vol 5!!! No seriously, expect a review to follow in t-minus 2 hours. This shit really is like drugs— the best frickin' kind of them.
Alright, so this took unexpected turns.
I wish Alana would stop cursing in front of Hazel, because I really hate when people do that in front of their child and I’m really annoyed about her doing what she did to keep her job and this new character Ginny trying to steal the spotlight.
Not my favorite volume, but the graphics are still incredible, the characters and plot are still interesting and it’s normal to have dark moments in life, so I’m just going to forgive my favorite characters for what they did.
Hazel, you precious girl, I love you.
SO GOOD SO GOOD.Especially in this one, every chapter was a freAKING CLIFFHANGER it made me need to keep reading.
Alana and Marko were so sweet with Hazel.They had this super adorable scene and then this happensThat one sentence made me tear up.I’m so shocked with what went down in this volume.
Hazel summed up my feelings pretty well “I guess I’m not sure what to say about that.
Words are harder than they used to be.”But I loved that we got to focus a little more on the family part in this story.And I still stand by my point that Gwendolyn is so damn badass.Also are they teaming up now??Because I need Marko and Alana to reunite right now.Support creators you love.
Four volumes and I've given each of them 5 stars.'nuff said.
I didn't like this one as much.
Alana was bitchy and Marko was all emo.
It was kind of funny how Alana had the job in that virtual reality soap opera.
But then, (view spoiler)[her getting addicted to drugs sucked all of the humor of it, plus she was miserable, so it wasn't fun to watch (hide spoiler)].
it just felt like inserted drama.
I guess it was to tease you because (view spoiler)[you think Alana and Marko are breaking up and he is going to cheat on her, but it's just that they literally get separated physically at the end.
They "split up" literally.
Tease!
I thought it was funny.
You know, I really cant get over how good this series is. I took maybe a month between reading the first 3 and then this one, and I was so excited to get back into the story. It's simultaneously adorable, creepy, sleazy, and incredible. Each chapter leaves me wanting so much more, and yet is so fulfilling. If you want to know more about what I think of the series, check out my other reviews. Otherwise, I can't recommend this enough. WEBSITE | TWITTER | FACEBOOK | INSTAGRAM
It's fast paced, the stories are great (it's finally going somewhere), it's more complex and the drawings and characters development improve much further.
If the quality of this volume continue to the rest of the series, I can see why Saga received the acclaim it gets.Marko, Hazel, Alana have changing and more complex relationship now.
However, the best characters goes to Prince Robot IV and The Robot Janitor, without those two I really don't see the plot going anywhere great.
Especially The Robot Janitor, his appearance really make the story much more intriguing.I read the entire volume straight within 40 minutes cause it was so addictive.
LOVE.
Re-read 4/19/17: Marko is still a stone cold fox tbhOriginal read 2015: Absolutely incredible. Also, Marko is a stone cold fox. Damn
This fourth installment was not as perfect as the last one, but it was still fucking amazing.The plot continues to thicken and the characters keep getting better at what they do.
A lot of unexpected things happened plus an annoying cliffhanger in the end.
I can't wait to read the next volume to know what's going to happen with (view spoiler)[ Marko and Alana's relationship.
Vaughan sure knows how to write a great plot.The artwork is consistent since the first volume.
My favorite thing of this volume would be the fact that The Stalk and Will appeared in the end.
The Stalk and Will are among my favorite characters in Saga.
OMG that ending. How is it possible for this series to be so consistently amazing?! Need volume 4 immediately.
The best volume in the series to date! Exciting, action-packed, great character development, and beautiful artwork as always. Simply PERFECTION.
Love where this story is heading!
All I can say is she's blue, she tries going after Marko and lets just say that little Hazel said it best in the book Her is ugly I had to get that out so now we can move on :-D Oh yeah, her name is Ginny!
Marko puts on some disguise that's not really a disguise to me, but whatever works :-DThe prince tv head gets some of his senses back and is told about his son being stolen so he's on a mission.
While said person that stole his son is out on his mission and killing people, er, things left and right.
HOLY MOTHER OF GOD.
My fangirl timeline:First there was Scully and Mulder (the truth is out there).Then came Sam and Dean Winchester (saving people, hunting things, the family business).Recently there's been Elizabeth and Philip (Married Russian spies not to be confused with Royals)Now keeping company with all of these is Alana and Marko.
Star-crossed lovers from the warring planets of Wreath and Landfall.
Then there are the mercenaries, Robot insurgents, and interplanetary revolutionaries who want to make the denizens of Wreath and Landfall pay for unleashing such a brutal and unceasing bloody war upon them all.So much love for this series it's turned me into bonafide fangirl stupid.
Re-Read 5/14/18:So I'm revising this down to four stars.
Because it is, conceivably, the weakest of all the volumes.
It's not that it's bad, but that so many crappy things happen...
or are caused by...
the characters I love the most.Too much whining, too much indulgence, and just when they're both acting the most selfishly, FATE has to intervene.
So. Crap.
This is the downturn.
Things GET BETTER.
*Sob* But first, sometimes, an alien has to hit bottom first.Original Review:NOOOOO...I'm gonna kill the person who created serials.
I'm gonna clone the shit out of him or her and then kill em.
PopSugar 2018: 35. Un libro que haya ganado el Goodreads Choice Awards  Este volumen ha sido desgarrador, desolador😭😢¿Escuchan eso? Es mi corazón rompiéndose ➡💔No todo es miel sobre hojuelas en el matrimonio de Alana y Marko están enfrentado una crisis como pareja, distanciados en parte por el nuevo trabajo de Alana como actriz y no ha tenido tanto tiempo para su familia.Por otra lado Marko se ha dedicado a cuidar a Hazel y la ha metido a clases de baile y la profesora azul morada whatever, est

So good! I need the next one, now!!
My favourite of the series so far. I forget how much I love the writing when I'm waiting for the next volume and then I'm like a kid at Christmas when I get my hands on it. Love.
Alana is now a working mother, and Marko is now a stay-at-home dad.
This is the chapter where we really see the struggle of Marko being a stay at home dad, while Alana is the major breadwinner of the family.
Alana is becoming more and more addicted to the Fadeaway drug, all while Ginny is hanging out more and more with Marko.
Prince Robot IV finally shows up and sees Yuma and Marko, who is now separated from his family.
We then find out that Marko is working with Prince Robot IV and Yuma to get their families back.
There's clearly new and exciting things about to come and the groundwork was laid here (and that's it.)All comic book series reach this stage at some point though I was quite suprised to see it happen here so early.
I think the story is becoming bigger with each new volume so more work is needed to carry it forward in a convincing manner.Far too much time was spent over on planet Robot (or whatever it's called) for my liking.
Marko seemed petty and childish where as Alana was just hostile (even more so than usual.) So I'm hoping things are better balenced in volume five!
The series is still coming up with new ideas.
This is one strange world they live in.
I think this is a fun story well told.
I'm enjoying itWhat I don't like is how almost every writer out there seems to think that every couple has to break up for drama.
It's an easy and predictable thing to do.
Can writers not create drama for a couple without them breaking up?
I don't understand.
I know every relationship has rocky patches, but that doesn't mean they have to split.
It's a pet-peeve of mine.
I'm so tired of it.
The Lying cat is turning out to be one of my favorite characters from this series.
Loyal pets that end up saving the day always make for the best characters.
After all the bloodshed and things you can't unsee because it's all so graphic, the cuteness factor Ghus provides is almost mandatory.The one thing that I can't get used to though is how everything just happens all at once and it's over before I can even realize that something actually happened.
You know there's something wrong when you start enjoying the illustrations more than the actual story-line.
