https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60079.Queen_Lucia
Darlings, you simply must visit Riseholme.
Let us instead speak of more important matters, in quaint baby-talk or made-up "Italian" - much as Georgie and Lucia and her husband Peppino often converse!Some say the village of Riseholme worships social climbing and the highly irrelevant minutiae of Who Said What And To Whom And Oh No They Didn't Oh Yes They Did...
Even in charming Riseholme, one simply must have adventure!
Could it be - no, we mustn't speculate - yes, we simply MUST - could she be bringing love into sweet Georgie's life?
This book is my cure for the doldrums -- a comic masterpiece.
Granted, it helps to be an anglophile and a bit of a misanthrope to boot, but the antics of the villagers of Riseholme, led (or dominated) by the immortal Lucia always make me realize just how absurdly delicious life can be.
It's a select but oddly inclusive group, I've found over the years.
This book is, in the words of a recent New York Times op ed piece, a "deal breaker" for me.
Every few years I reread the entire six-book Lucia saga over again.
This first volume in the saga was as delightful as I remembered it.
For a book that was written almost a hundred years ago, it also feels remarkably fresh and readable.One character, the gullible Mrs Daisy Quantock, is prone to embrace some of the era's health crazes and as such we get a short but interesting exposition of the tenets of Christian Science, and then an amusing dalliance with yoga - taught by her personal guru; and then onto another splendid infatuation with spiritualism via the services of a Russian medium known as Princess Popoffski.
I read all of the Lucia books when I was 13 and thought they were so funny. I remember laughing out loud quite a bit. This time around I still enjoyed Queen Lucia, but not as much, and I'm not sure why. It was all very witty and amusing, but I found myself a little bored. Also, the silly factor, which I thought was so funny when I was younger, grated on me a bit. Maybe I'm just jaded now! Solid three stars for me this time.
In ‘Queen Lucia’ we are introduced to the rarefied atmosphere of Riseholme where no one seems to do anything very much; but read, listen to music, plan dinner parties, indulge in the latest fad of the moment, and speculate about their neighbours.“The hours of the morning between breakfast and lunch were the time which the inhabitants of Riseholme chiefly devoted to spying on each other.”  The undisputed queen of Riseholme is Mrs Emmeline Lucas – otherwise known as Lucia, who lives in three Elizabethan cottages made into one, surrounded by her Shakespearean garden (beds named for Shakespearean characters).
But thanks to E.F. Benson's Mapp and Lucia books, we have a good idea of what such an existence must have been like in provincial middle England in the 1920s and 1930s.
"Queen Lucia" is the first book in the series and, in my view, is the best one.
It introduces us to the fabulous Lucia (Emmeline Lucas), Georgie and the sundry other characters who provide a rich seam of comical pleasure throughout the series.
I urge you to read it - and the other books in the series.
While not as good as those written by E.F. Benson, they are also well worth trying.)
3.5“Hitum, Titum and Scrub”Don’t you just love discovering new books with charming characters.
I’d never heard of Lucia, or indeed Benson, and it is with surprise that I entered the leisurely enclave of Risholme.
Its inhabitants are a delight of caricature of wealthy England between the wars.
The author offers us colourful characters, from Lucia, our social prima donna, to her cohort consisting of her husband Peppino and friend Georgie, ruling over the rest of the village.
However, Benson does also raise a very astute point about village life: "‘I never knew before how terribly interesting little things were.
Abstenerse lectores que no sean fervorosos entusiastas de la comedia social inglesa acerca de la relamida burguesía rural y con ese humor cargado de sátira tan característico, porque esta primera novela de la saga Mapp y Lucía es ferozmente british.
Riseholme es un pintoresco pueblecito inglés, un aparente remanso de paz plagado de peculiares, exagerados y pretenciosos habitantes con una gula por los chismes exacerbada.
A mi me ha encantado la pluma de Benson, comprendo que el tipo de historia narrada pueda resultar aburrida?
si lo muy british no es debilidad como mi caso o, si se espera algún tipo de acción.
La miniserie me había gustado mucho y estoy deseando continuar con los libros.
Emmeline (Lucia) Lucas wants nothing more than to rule over her friends and neighbours in the Elizabethan village of Riseholme.
This novel is the first in a series featuring ‘Queen Lucia’ and introduces us to the characters and settings where the books are set.
Of course, this novel satirises the idle rich and the author captures that perfectly – that time between breakfast and lunch when the inhabitants of Riseholme duck in and out of shops, spying on neighbours, and hugging titbits of gossip to carry on to others, is wonderfully told.
First novel in his Lucia series that has been praised since it was published.
It's just an exquisite portrait of a society where pretentiousness, fake emotion, fake culture are the norm.
A wonderful satirical view of a class of people that are still very much alive today.
There is no real plot but the incisive portraits of the people inhabiting this little quaint bourgeois village of Riseholme is very entertaining.
The plotting of who's on top of the food chain and the sweet but hardly innocent artiste that moves to the village and runs to the ground Lucia's little castle offer quite a romp.


4.5 stars Nadia May does a marvelous narration of this satire of the social maneuvers in English village life during the 1920s. If you like Gaskell's Cranford, you will probably enjoy this.
She’s a vain, pretentious, snobbish, selfish, passive-aggressive, over-bearing lady who reacts with extra-ordinary rudeness when she doesn’t get her own way.
She may indeed be a vain, pretentious, snobbish, selfish, passive-aggressive, over-bearing lady who reacts with extra-ordinary rudeness when she doesn’t get her own way, but she is the glue who holds her world together, one who believes in it absolutely and feels she is spreading joy and culture wherever she goes.
This is a book about small things, about little dramas, about conflicts that take place with a smile and absolutely no vulgar scenes.
I'm sad because I didn't love this. Both women are so unpleasant. I do realize that they're supposed to be comic characters, but this just didn't work for me at this time. I'm going to watch the BBC series and see if that helps.
It's perfect for anyone who's cynically observed Queen Bees at work in any era.Queen Lucia operates as a delicious satire on two levels: Yes, the novel paints a particularly stinging picture of the social climbing of the British upper middle classes in the period between the World Wars.
Our protagonist, E.F. Benson's Emmeline Lucas -- referred to as Queen Lucia behind her back -- considers herself "high-priestess at every altar of Art" and the small village of Riseholme's premiere social arbiter, imposing her iron will on all her neighbors.
If I'd read this first, I doubt I'd have gone on to discover Benson's masterpiece 'Mapp and Lucia'; but doing it out of sequence after having loved Mapp and Lucia so deeply made this a pretty disappointing read too - catch 22. Some funny situations and dialogue, and it was interesting to see the characters of Lucia and (gay-gay-flamingly-gay) Georgie in inchoate form. But this did not fit together into a memorable whole. Read Mapp and Lucia instead!
Emmeline Lucas - you may call her Lucia (pronounced loo-CHEE-ah, of course) - rules the upper-class social roost of the small English town of Riseholme in the care-free time between world wars.
This book sort of plays out like Dangerous Liaisons...
But that's not a criticism, just an observation, because oh what characters!I really enjoyed this book, and the narration by Nadia May (aka Wanda McCaddon) was very good.PS - The creator of Hyacinth Bucket (pronounced bouquet, of course) had to have been a fan of Lucia.
Hyacinth is like a middle-class and even more ridiculous version of her.
I can't remember why I downloaded this book from the Guttenberg Project, I must have read about it s
A lovely comic novel about middle-class people attempting to pass for upper class and rich people with too much money and time on their hands getting involved with charlatans in the form of: Indian gurus, Russian mediums, weird religions and fake cures. I kept hoping for someone with common sense, but only one came along, Olga, an opera singer from a poor background.
My goodness, some of those English village society ladies in the 1920s are snobbish and they sure made for a fun read. This is a new series for me and it was a bit cumbersome in the writing style but still an enjoyable book to read. I'm listening to the second book Miss Mapp and it is really charming and delightful.
What fun!Written in 1920 and set in fictional Riseholme (but based on Rye or Hastings? Jen will confirm ;-) in South England; starring the delightful Lucia and her BFF George. Who embroiders. He was a hoot. They all are!Don't tell my mother-in-law, but Mrs Quantock reminds me of her. And the lozenges she begins consuming at the end of the book will surely make her grow 2-6". The many testimonials say; it must be so!Good news: There are more of these and there are also British telly adaptations (Mapp and Lucia). Much more of this in my future. Hooray!
May I introduce the indomitable Mrs. Philip Lucas, known to her subjects as "Lucia", the unrivaled Queen of Riseholme society, and future conqueress of Miss Elizabeth Mapp, Queen of Tilling? To read this book for the first time is to embark on a magnificent obsession, as it's the first of many novels concerning the adventures and intrigues of Lucia and her devoted aide de camp, Mr. Georgie Pilson. I've read the series countless times, and it never palls.
It's been years since I first visited the idyllic village of Riseholme and it's queen and arbiter of all things artistic, Mrs. Lucia Lucas; I fell in love with her and the busy, gossiping denizens of Riseholme and then Tilling, Lucia's next home.
in any event, even though i was looking for ghost stories i picked up this first novel in the lucia series (which is nothing at all like any ghost story i have read -- well maybe like wilde's canterville ghost, but that's it) by benson which much more like another favourite: wodehouse.
i would like to transcribe a portion of the book here: Dear Georgie: It was such a lovely day that when we got to Paddington Ursy and I decided to bicycle down instead, so for a lark we sent our things on and we may arrive tonight, but probably tomorrow.
After those four hours in the train a short walk would be pleasant, but, though she veiled it from her conscious mind, another motive, sub-consciously engineered, prompted her action.
It would, of course, be universally known to all her friends in Riseholme that she was arriving today by the 12.26, and at that hour the village street would be sure to be full of them.
They would see the fly with luggage draw up at the door of The Hurst, and nobody except her maid would get out.
Revisit. Emmeline Lucas (Lucia), the ‘queen’ of all things social and cultural in Riseholme finds her authority challenged quite suddenly when the prima donna Olga Bracely moves there, for not only are her ‘subjects’ changing their allegiances, some are also rebelling openly. Her gentleman-in-waiting, Georgie too, seems to be switching sides. Not that one can blame them, though, since Olga is certainly the much nicer of the two, is far more talented, and knows how to have genuine (unpretentious) good fun. Their antics and little games of social one-upmanship are entertaining and great fun. Molto Bene :)
As Lucia would say “quello di un bel libro”.Loved this book, very amusing and on occasions very politically incorrect.The story of middle class Mrs. Lucas, and her attempts to rule over the social scene in the village of Riseholme is a joy to read.
The plot is virtually irrelevant; it is the constant one upmanship and subsequent falls that keeps the story going.
The characters, in particular Mrs. Lucas (Lucia) and Georgie, are so well drawn that they feel alive, and you can clearly visualise them and their silly activities.Can’t wait to read another book in the series as this one was “molto buona”.
I'm not sure I can explain why Lucia is so amusing.
She's a pretentious social climber, and in real life she'd annoy the hell out of anyone.
I suppose the appeal lies in how far removed the novel is from any reality I've ever known: married well-off couples who putter about getting into trouble but don't need to worry about money, or health, or children, or anything meaningful.
That, and an emphasis on real estate.
The Lucia novels are as unreal as his ghost stories, but just as firmly rooted in the mundane, albeit a different mundane than I ever deal with.
Its such a delight to read a book you feel you should have read as a teenager when you were discovering literature and somehow missed. I adored this. I read something I thoroughly enjoyed which was well written, entertaining and in every way enriching. I borrowed a friends copy and was half way through Mapp and lucia when I left her house. I have now ordered the entire series on Amazon.
