https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/208063.Quicksand_and_Passing
To lose oneself in the mire of identity crisis, discontented with life, love, and career. To seek true meaning and purpose, only to find that it eludes you:  Somewhere, within her, in a deep recess, crouched discontent. She began to lose confidence in the fullness of her life, the glow began to fade from her conception of it. As the days multiplied, her need of something, something vaguely familiar, but which she could not put a name to and hold for definite examination, became almost intolerabl
I lived with her, observed with her, got mad at her, empathized and sympathized with her, and was unhappy with how things ended for her, until I realized that I only have to look around me in suburban America, to look around me at life, and I will most likely see similar endings.Ever read a book and imagine the words coming out of the mouths of people on a movie screen?
In Quicksand, Helga struggles with her own racial makeup and at times she seems to hate her own people, yet she realizes that she can't live without them, or without being herself:
But it was probably better that way.
Here are a few notes on each:Quicksand: Stylistically, the prose is conventional, with some interesting indirectness and some surprisingly concise and fresh sounding turns of phrase.
As for the content: the main character’s (Helga Crane’s) very identity suffocates her: In her America, having a white mother and black father means that bigotry and patriarchy condition her autonomy.
Her resultant way of being put me in mind of Camus’ The Stranger and Delillo’s “Baader-Meinhof”.
She’s foolish in the way we all are, in that we act only on our always incomplete knowledge and muddy intuitions.
If you will read both, end on this note.
Larsen explores not so much the ostensible side of racial politics in America, but instead explores the more insidious nature of racism, of the deeply embedded prejudices in American society which stripped African-Americans of their humanity, of the links between this and the perpetuation of the dominance of the white population, of the little things, such as the affected condescension Helga experiences in the employment office, which gradually chip away at Helga's sense of self, until she is forced to become grateful for even the most base level acceptance.
Passing is one of the best books I have ever read. The conflicts in that novel are so complex and tightly composed that while reading it, I feel so conflicted and torn I can barely breathe. Beautiful language, fascinating story, complicated and well-constructed characters. This book is excellent in every way possible.
Coming-of-age, woman as child, young woman with all the potential of a child until she foolishly marries an ugly man for a house, for God, for the chance to give up responsibility for her own foolishness.Helga Crane goes from Naxos, a prestigious school dedicated to Negro uplift - call it the nonprofit sector - to suddenly realizing that she hated the hypocrisy of do-good work.
She is a young woman dedicated to having as much of the beautiful world as possible, never quite confronting the horror of limitation.At the end, giving birth to her fifth child, she has become a slave to the extra mortality of a woman's body.
In many ways Larsen presents her female characters as Romantic heroines trapped in a Naturalist novel.
As the poet W.B. Yeats has lyrically expressed, they’re “sick with desire and fastened to a dying animal.” That dying animal is embodied in many ways in "Quicksand" and "Passing," from sterile or racist environments (such as Naxos and Clare's home life with Bellew), to the fragile limitations of the female body, to the institutions of marriage and the responsibilities of motherhood.
Still wanted.” Recommended for those who like to explore the complicated issues related to race and the theme of the "tragic mulatta."
After reading both of these novels I was so sad to find that after some scandal about plagarism Larsen abandoned her writing. I wish, I wish, I wish she had written more.
Not an easy read nor a happy one. Best not to read the introduction first (why do they always give away the ending?), but it helps you understand why Larsen made some of the choices she did. We had a great week in class discussing this book. It opened up a lot of students' eyes about the peculiar racism and sexism that mixed-race women have experienced (and continue to).
Great learning experience for me as far as being in the head and heart of a bi-racial woman living in Harlem during the Renaissance (20s and 30s), but though I fully appreciate the tenacity and talent it must have taken Nella Larsen to write such novels in those days and the sacrifices she had to endure later, dying in anonymity as a nurse in New York, I still found the books a little too forgettable for what I was expecting.I disliked both narrators: Helga (Quicksand) and Irene (Passing), and for the same reasons.
As I write this, I realize that maybe Nella Larsen did something very original in that she allowed her black heroines to be complicated intellectuals with snobbish penchants.
Without living a life of her own from a very young age, she was unable to identify specifically what she wanted- from her intellect, social life, and love.
This story can relate to young adults despite its historical perspective; the challenge may come from the awareness this book may create within the reader, of our own self-perpetuating flaws and shortcomings that are preventing us from obtaining our full potential.
I have been compelled to self-reflection as a result of reading Quicksand, I'm not sure that I can read Passing, the second story by Larson, quite yet.
Read these novellas a number of times over the years. They were a big part of my master's thesis about mixed race Af-Am women and the concept of the "cyborg", a being existing within apparently contradictory identities.
I felt that the novellas Quicksand and Passing were the work of a writer who had not quite reached the height of her powers.
Quicksand meanders a little too much, without getting to the heart of its central character, but Passing is a deft, insightful piece of work, with a twist I wasn't expecting.
Both novels, set and written in the late 1920s, deal with being mixed race, and of Black people "passing" as white.
They explore a sense of rootlessness or detachment experienced by their main characters because they are mixed race.
She is a very skillful writer, you only have to read a few of her well crafted sentences to see that writing comes naturally to her.The way she created the 'tragic heroine' or 'tragic mulatto' as was the term attributed to such protagonists in those days, was very touching.
This is probably the most tragic of the 'tragic mulatto' stories I have read from the Harlem Renaissance - and this is a triumph on the writer's part.
Following Helga Crane as she escapes a prominent but stifling faculty position at a southern all-black school to move to Chicago, Harlem, Copenhagen, back to Harlem and finally to rural Alabama.
With each new place she goes through the same emotional cycle of elation, irritation, then rejection as she moves on to a change of scenery and people.
Helga's search for authenticity is central to her restlessness, for she is the daughter of a black man and a white mother (from Denmark), and her pursuit of identity, connection, and place are all integral to her constant flight.
After reading these two powerful short stories, Nella Larsen is now up there with one of my favorite authors.
Both stories beautifully depict the restless and beleaguered spirit of smart, young, black women in 20th century America.
What is so striking is how much I related to the feelings, emotions and internal battles of the characters.
Despite it being of another time, I think many women, especially women of color, will resonate with the suffocating limitations of race, class and gender that the characters face.
In 21st century America much has changed, but much more still has not.That's why Larsen's stories are still so profoundly relevant today.
A light and yet incredibly intricate novel that throws into question every notion about identity -- the title is rather odd, in that in combines two separate short novels, the first mediocre, the second brilliant, but entirely appropriate, because Passing is a novel of intellectual quicksand, likely to trouble some your habitual ways of thinking and feel you are on slippery ground.
the harlem renaissance is the only historical era i care one whit about, and these two novellas represent some of my favorite writing from it. i re-read them often. i think they're incredibly evocative and mercurial; for a long time, i've had a fantasy of writing a treatment of *passing* as a full-length film. but i'm too lazy.
Nella Larson was an author that was thought of as crazy, a liar, a plagiarist in which she simply vanished for awhile in her career. But this book is very insightful. Some believe that Helga, the protaganist in Quicksand, is a biography of Larson's life itself. But the two books are seen as a movement, filled with sexual desire and the representation of one's race. Overall a great read!
These two novels were really fascinating. They explored issues facing African-American women during the Harlem Renaissance era, particularly light skinned women. There is a tremendous emphasis on liminal figures in these books--African-Americans marginalized by race, lesbianism repressed and projected, and individuals passing between race and through sexualities.
Just wrote a 15-page final paper on this book, although I greatly enjoyed both stories, am happy to put my earmarked/post-it-noted/highlighted copy DOWN. :)
Someone shoot me if I ever express the desire to read this again
My heart ached throughout the whole of the novel. Both stories beautiful pieces of prose, reflective and thought-provoking.
Read this one in my first year working for a school. I liked it a lot and so did the 11th graders.
Mild spoilers (I try to be vague about the endings).This edition (Rutgers University Press, 1986) brings together two amazing Harlem Renaissance novels by Nella Larsen, both concerning mixed race young women in the 1920s.In Quicksand the protagonist Helga is a lovely, intelligent young woman who travels to a number of places to visit family or make friends and find a home.
After Irene moves back to New York (and hopes she never sees Clare or Clare's husband again), Clare misses her and comes to visit a number of times.Like Quicksand, Passing is strongly a psychological novel with a lot of attention paid to the thoughts going on inside the head of the protagonist.
Nothing, she imagined, was ever more completely sardonic.Question: could the idea of Passing being contemporary enough to merit a movie despite having been written in the 1920s be even more sardonic?
It is a thing that happened, happens and will happen.(Or maybe it is like confetti (hello fellow Haunting of Hill House tv show fans), and ideas are sprinkled across time and space?)Which one is it in the end?
I imagine it’s a collective choice.
I imagine it’s a personal choice.
I’ve been slowly renouncing the idea of justice (it’s a very slow and quiet thing for me) so I’m only a little melancholy that Nella Larsen has not written much more.
Passing is told from the perspective of Irene, a light-skinned African-American, but is really about Clare, a friend (if that's the right word) of Irene's who passes as white and is married to a white (and incredibly racist) husband.Both stories explore a lot of complex issues of race and delve deep into the inner lives of their protagonists.
One of Larsen's greatest strengths in these novellas is her ability to expose the complex inner working of her protagonists' minds and to articulate their subjective experience.I read Quicksand and Passing for a history class I'm taking on racial identity, and they are excellent sources for understanding intersections of race, class, and gender.
I'm so glad I discovered Nella Larsen and saddened to learn that her extraordinary career (first black female creative writer awarded a Guggenheim!) was a short one.
Quicksand's Helga Crane is a (n autobiographical?) half-black, half-Danish young woman who feels alone in her otherness.
Whether at an all-black academic campus, with relatives in Copenhagen, or surrounded by friends and admirers in Harlem, Helga Crane is a constant outlier, isolated by her pro-assimilation, anti-segregation stance.
The protagonist in Passing is Irene Redfield, similar to Helga in her discomfort, pride and shame but of a much more logical nature.
Passing is a tragic thriller.
Quicksand reminded me of Sister Carrie. In spite of Robert Anderson's questioning and her recognition that she loves him. Helga's preoccupation with racial identity as the only source of her discontent prevents her from ever looking at her own superficiality and impulsiveness as possible contributors to her unrest. It is a story that resonates on many levels. Both Quicksand and Passing explores the idea that racism may be intrinsic to the human condition and perhaps more damaging when it comes from within than without.
What fascinating stories. Nella Larsen introduced me, not only to the complexity of being mixed-race in the American 1920's, but she so cleverly brought in themes of agency, sexuality, fighting for independence, and the role of women in society as well well. Her female characters were human and flawed, and while I didn't necessary like them (Helga got on my nerves pretty bad), that is what made them so good. 4 stars. Review to come!
Betoverend boek met een paar uitzonderlijke passages. Een pleidooi voor kleur.Klik hier voor een videorecensie van Drijfzand op mijn Youtube-kanaal De idioot leest.
