https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/528230.The_Rose_Tattoo
He shows us a world within a world, he takes us into a journey into the human soul and I love him for it.
This play raises many interesting questions about love and explores this subject from different points of view.
The Rose Tattoo is a play that bravely and bodly explores a great number of themes: love, sexuality, loneliness, motherhood etc...The majority of characters in this play are Sicilians.
Serafina and her daughter are the main characters of this play.
I admire the way that cultures clash in Williams’ plays, he has a unique gift for portraying that.
http://naqderooz.ir/1foنقد نمایشنامه خالکوبی رز(خال گل سرخ)نمایشنامه خالکوبی رز حول محوریت شخصیتی به نام سرافینا دلا رز میگردد. سرافینا خیاطی اهل سیسیلی است که با دخترش در روستای کوچکی زندگی میکند. همسرش رزاریو کامیونداری ایتالیایی است که خالکوبی گل رزی روی سینهاش دارد، که در طول نمایشنامه به این خالکوبی رز به عنوان نمادی از عشق جسمانی اشاره می شود. سرافینا به شدت عاشق همسر خوش قیافهاش است. در آغاز نمایشنامه او برای فرزند دومش حامله است. وقتی که استل اوهنگارتن که زنی هرزه است به دیدار او می رود
وقتی که استل اوهنگارتن که زنی هرزه است به دیدار او می رود و دوخت بلوزی به رنگ رز برای معشوقش را به سرافینا می‌دهد.
سرافینا هم این سفارش را قبول می‌کندبدون اینکه بداند ای زن معشوقه‌ی رزاریو همسر خودش است.
بعدا خبر می‌رسد رزاریو که زیر بار موزهایش مواد موخدر قاچاق می‌کرده در درگیری با پلیس کشته شده است.سرافینا عزای شدیدی می‌گیرد و خودش را در خانه حبس می کند و تا ماه‌ها سفارش دوخت لباس از کسی قبول نمی‌کند و نسبت به کار و زندگی‌ای بی‌تفاوت می‌شود.
سرافینا با شنیدن این خبر جا می‌خورد و بر افسردگی و اندوهش می‌افزاید...ادامه مطلب در سایت نقد روز:http://naqderooz.ir/1fp
In  “The Rose Tattoo”  Tennessee Williams surprises the spectator in blending together the grotesquely comical, the mystic symbolism and the unhinged dramatism that surround the recently widowed Serafina Della Rosa, a plump middle-aged Sicilian seamstress who is equally hilarious and unstable, and her teenage daughter Rosa, whose lust for a local sailor represents the tensions between the Sicilian and the American communities at the beginning of the 20thC.The virtue of pure love and the almost deranged religious devotion that impregnate Serafina’s soul and her frantic attempts to disclose the enigmas of her deceased husband Rosario, whose idealized presence is constantly invoked yet never materialized, tinges the story with visual and auditive effects that make of this play a multisensorial experience.
Highway signs: "Slippery When Wet." ~~ "Truck Drivers in Rear."You may know a lot or a little about Blanche, Alma, Maggie, Maxine, Laura, Stella, Amanda, The Princess and Myrtle...but few can recall the big Sicilian peasant, Serafina Delle Rose -- the first 10 Williams heroine who isn't repressed in any way.
He had a rose tattooed on his chest.How she deals with this traumatic loss and unborn baby shape the action : hearing that husby had a mistress she prays to the virgin for a sign to confirm or deny the rumors.
10 is in a compassionate mood : Serafina faces this and that truth, and her suitor soon has a rose tattoo on  his  chest.
This one was a real clunker. I thought the structure was clumsy, the characters both ugly and uninteresting, and the plot veered on silliness. This is one I'm actually glad that I didn't see on stage, because I'm afraid that it would tend to be even worse when performed. I've never read a play that has as much business described as this one does, and I didn't really see the point of much of it. Not T. Williams at his best, or even close.
The Rose tattoo, Tennessee Williamsعنوان: خال گل سرخ؛ نوشته: تنسی ویلیامز؛ مترجم: مرجان بخت مینو؛ مشخصات نشر: کرج، مینو، 1382، در 144 ص، شابک: 9647487185، موضوع: نمایشنامه های امریکایی قرن 20 م
‎The Rose tattoo, Tennessee Williamsعنوان: خال گل سرخ؛ نوشته: تنسی ویلیامز؛ مترجم: مرجان بخت مینو؛ مشخصات نشر: کرج، مینو، 1382، در 144 ص، شابک: 9647487185، موضوع: نمایشنامه های امریکایی قرن 20 م
I want to take this play out to dinner and then cuddle with it on the couch afterwards.Three well-deserved stars.
This one is really different from the other plays I've read so far. The problem for me is the caricature of Italians here... I honestly don't know if Italians are the way depicted by non-Italians in literature and film, but it always feels like stereotyping a culture when we focus on just their most noticable aspect only, here passion. I would have had more respect if the play was set with Americans rather than stereotyped Italians. The plot and action are entertaining enoughl but there is nothing like emotional depth or complexity. Instead, it read at times like slapstick.
It is a play with many relevant and important themes: love, sexuality, loneliness, motherhood etc...
Moreover, the characters are complex and this is especially the case with Serafina.
Williams, it is a female character that is in the centre of the play.
Now when I think of it, they are in a way shadowed by Serafina.
In a way, she makes religion out of her love.
Nevertheless, Serafina is like Blanche in her own way a strong woman.
I always like the way that cultures clash in Williams’ plays.
The cultural distance created in his plays deepens that sense of loneliness.


I don't know any Italian, so this play was a challenge to read. I like the idea that Serafina's ability to love was sealed inside the urn with her husband's ashes, only released when the urn was broken. The side story with her daughter, Rosa, was boring.
I fell in love with Serafina Delle Rose. She makes a wish, she takes a risk, she opens up her door... God exists if you just stop worshipping some arbitrary "Him".
In 1955, Williams wrote the screenplay for the film version of "The Rose Tattoo" which became famous for the Academy Award winning performance of Anna Magnani.
The play tells the story of a middle-aged Sicilian immigrant woman, Serafina Delle Rose who passes from grief and despair to love and sexuality and to a second chance at life.
In the opening scenes, Serafina is pregnant and married to a man named Rosario and the couple have a 12-year old daughter, Rosa.
Williams and Kazan never worked together again."The Rose Tattoo" is a beautiful play about disappointment and grief and about the power of love and sexuality to redeem life.
The Rose Tattoo concerns one Serafina delle Rosa, a first-generation Sicilian-American who lives somewhere on the Gulf Coast with her 15-year-old daughter Rose.
It also lacks the neat resolution of The Rose Tattoo and the cast of characters is more diverse, ranging from pure and detached (Hannah) to Serafina-like (Maxine) to falling apart as we speak (Shannon).Which isn't to say that The Rose Tattoo is a mediocre play or not worth it if you've already read/seen Iguana.
I haven't read anything else by Williams so I wouldn't know if his other plays are more differentiated, but I found The Rose Tattoo to be a great companion piece and counterpoint for The Night of the Iguana.
Tennessee Williams’ play, The Rose Tattoo, stemmed from the fragilities of the heart.
His protagonist, the rambunctious widow and seamstress, Serafina Delle Rose, was on a fervent trajectory of discovering the truth of her relationship with her late husband, Rosario upon his death.
The metaphor of the rose, a perfect flower, was her illusion she held for Rosario, a man she worshiped throughout their marriage.
A devout Catholic, Serafina, put together a shrine to worship Rosario in death and superstitiously asked the Madonna for an affirming sign.
Serafina started laughing and opened her heart to allow Alvaro to be with her.
Serafina Del Rose is a woman highly infatuated and in love with her husband Rosario, and when he dies her passion for him doesn't -- his manly, rugged body marked by a rose tattoo is the one she still dreams of five years past, to the embarassment of her community and especially of her daughter, who wishes they could both move on with their lives.
The Rose Tattoo led nowhere, and read like a copy paste of the author's previous works, giving the impression Tennessee Williams had no new themes to address or points to make.
Reading this play, I see for the first time a range in Tennessee Williams I didn't know existed.
Instead, The Rose Tattoo, which is like a libretto for an opera waiting to be written, features poor immigrants, broad comedy, and a hopeful life-affirming ending.
Written at the peak of his powers between Streetcar and Cat, things must have been going well for Williams, and it shows in his outlook in this play.
Until then, we have the 1955 film version starring Burt Lancaster and Anna Magnani, who originated the role on Broadway and won an Academy Award for Best Actress.

I wouldn't call this book perfect, eventhough it satisfied me with the style and genre.
I was quite stunned how Mr. Williams could identify with Serafina's feeling and describe them like his own.
The reader can see both sides of the generation gap, which arised between Serafina and her daughter Rosa, therefore he could be the judge knowing and comprehending the problems of each side.
This piece of work is also an adviseble insight into the times (the book was published in 1951), when a lot of immigrants moved into US and struggled with their lives trying to adapt to the different and fast way of life.
I didn't actually finish reading this script, that's how uninteresting the characters felt to me. I gave it through the entire first act, so I don't think it was just that I hadn't reached the important part. I normally enjoy reading scripts but I found myself thinking "I hope no theatre I'm a part of decides to do this show" with this one to be totally honest. The daughter seemed like maybe she could have been interesting but the mothers development lacked so much and left me wanting to much I couldn't even continue :/
I have adored Tennessee Williams since my first dramatic literature class in high school ("The Glass Menagerie") and I have no idea how I have missed "The Rose Tattoo" all these years. I saw the movie with Anna Magnani (brilliant) last month and had to read the script (ten times more brilliant!). Every line, every character, just perfect. I think this is one of the great American plays of the 20th century. And Tennessee Williams says more with his stage directions than most playwrights do with an entire scene.
Tennessee Williams understood human nature and passion and jealousy. Perhaps in creating a play everything needs to be over the top in order to understand what is going on inside someone's head. Things are thrown, knuckles are bitten and the old lady in the neighborhood is termed " the Strega" or the witch. Of course. Everyone is Sicilian and passionate but when making the movie how did they justify casting Burt Reynolds as a Sicilian?
passionate, tragic, painful, three words for this masterpiece.Serafina is a tragic heroine, living a life that she thinks its perfect until the truth shatters it in pieces.she remains prisoner of her own imagination, but I believe she is a prisoner of her own tradition and restricted society. After all, she lives in America but she came from Sicily and I felt the burden of the so-called proper behaviour in the face of America's changing society in the 50s.
To me, the best part of this book was Williams' preceding essay, "The timeless world of a play," where his prose left me thoughtful and smiling. But when the play has 15-20 % of the characters' lines in Italian, I often felt left out of the story and on the sidelines, just the opposite of where I like to be as I take in a play.
تينيسي ويليامز.. عبقري
a bunch of sentimental whining en Espanol, and some glorified cat fighting that never amounts to anything you wouldn't see on reality television. Williams at his worst.
Wonderful, poetic and emotionally charged reading. The characters are so well developed by the playwright you see them come alive before your eyes. The actions are perfectly founded and relationships finely nuanced. The author's remarks are very precise and beautifully written.Also, I appreciated this play for its profoundly positive message (not taking this for granted when it comes to Tennessee Williams).Could not help thinking that a play like that, completely centered on exploring human types, relationships and emotions, almost void of any social or political commentary would probably could not appear in our days.
My heart is broken.
Williams, clearly a well-read man, weaves in all sorts of elements found in dramatic history from the Greeks to Shakespeare to modern Realism, giving them all his own twist.Williams wants us to think this is the story of a woman’s journey back to happiness, but her preoccupation with happiness is the problem of the entire play.
In the end, the playwright wants us to conclude she has opened herself to a happiness she has refused ever since the death of her husband, but in reality she has just moved on from one idolatry to the next.
