https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95693.The_Blue_Castle
Knowing what I know now about the beauty and magic of her books, I realize I missed out of some major reading adventures with Anne, Emily, Pat and gang, and will consequently never be able to wax nostalgic about how those books effected my life (which is probably for the best, as I tend to go into sappy, melodramatic overdrive when I really love a book - you know it's true, my GR friends) :PBut in the case of The Blue Castle, it's a good thing I didn't pick this up to read until I was about the age of Valency, because I don't think a younger girl would be able to fully appreciate this story as much a young woman who has lived a little.
Written in 1926 by the author of the beloved Anne of Green Gables series, this is the story of Valancy, a 29 year old timid mouse of a person, considered an old maid by her family and the town generally.
One day Valancy, without telling her family, sneaks off to the doctor to find out why her heart has been bothering her.
The letter she gets a day or two later from the doctor informs her that she has a severe heart condition, and less than a year to live.Oddly enough, this death sentence frees Valancy from her miserable existence.
An important and underrated part of the Montgomery collection -- in this story, a young woman (young by our standards, an old maid in her time) rebels against her oppressive family and a conservative society to achieve a few basic but essential moments of happiness.
This book had a big impact on me in college, and is still important as realistic fantasy for women living in strict conservative societies (patriarchal Japan, for example).
There are many layers at work in her stories, and some pioneering feminist concepts tucked in between the deep appreciation of nature, the commentary on the stuffy contemporary society of her day, and the delightful, well-drawn characters.
Most, if not all, of the Stirlings would have died of horror if they had known half the things Valancy did in her Blue Castle."- Lucy Maud Montgomery, The Blue CastleThis is the sort of book that makes me so glad to be a reader.
A pivotal experience in her life (no spoilers), however, changes her life forever.I loved the new Valancy; I fully support women who have thrown off their shackles, decided enough is enough, and have decided to live authentically.
And it made me laugh to read how Valancy's relatives thought she had gone mad because of course free-thinking women have clearly lost it.What I also adored about this book was Montgomery's veneration of nature.
Who could not love this story about a woman who gains the courage to break free from the smothering yoke of her family and to make the most of the life she has left?This book was hilariously funny in some parts, always inspirational, and sometimes pretty sad.
It took a life-changing event to get Valancy to see this, and I was glad she did.The romance was lovely in this book.
We all need a blue castle in our lives, a place where we can go to feel true happiness, a retreat away from the disappointments and expectations of the world, and others' judgments and requirements for us.
As I read this book, I wondered where my blue castle was.
This is my favorite novel by LM Montgomery, even though it's not necessarily typical of her books. It is the sweetest romance I have ever read, full of laugh out loud moments and obnoxious "villains". In fact, this book's annoying characters are on a par with Jane Austen's best. it's a great story of learning to be free of society's bonds and expectations, of finding love when and where least expected, and of the joys that come when you open your heart to them. I completely recommend this book. It may be my favorite ever novel--definitely in the top 10.
Once upon a time...there lived a beautiful young woman named Valancy Stirling. She was tall, with black raven hair, large brown slanted eyes, and pale, white skin that gleamed in the moonlight and gave her an ethereal, dreamlike appearance. Valancy was the mistress of the Blue Castle in Spain; a big, imposing, majestic structure of elegance and grandness, resplendent in blue.  "Everything wonderful and beautiful was in that castle."  She had everything she wanted, from glamorous jewels to gorgeo
Once upon a time...there lived a beautiful young woman named Valancy Stirling.
Valancy had a prince too, of course.
A red-haired and blue-eyed mysterious hero, with a twisted grin, unkempt appearance and kind, amiable ways.
He was everything her heart had always desired and more.One of her favourite escapes, too, was reading John Foster's nature books, which truly freed her soul and let her marvel and wonder over nature's beautiful gifts.
One letter from Dr. Trent to Valancy, telling her she was dying of heart disease was enough to make her break free from the miserable, predictable and insupportable pattern of her life, and start living her own.
If her inadequacies did slip her mind, her "loving" family would be quick to remind her.
For a short time she's happy, and it looks like she's found her Blue Castle after all.
She knows it can't last-- she's dying, after all-- but then things take a turn she never expected.This book is the contemporary romance of its day (1926) and is infused the wit, biting social commentary, and charm.
The Stirling family is so obnoxious and so amusing at the same time.
This was a lovely, cozy read that I started on a snowy day and finished the day after.
However, we meet Valancy on a fateful day that comes with a dramatic twist, and everything quickly sets off and goes in a delightful direction that I immensely enjoyed reading about.
Some parts of the story and the ending were a tiny bit too sugar sweet for my taste, but in general I really enjoyed reading about Valancy’s development, and I had a lot of fun guessing where the story was taking us.
This was the perfect, cozy read, and so far the best book I’ve read of L.
awwwww i'm so bummed. I thought the mc had anxiety so i was soooo excited, but turns out she didn't :(
Definitely, DEFINITELY a new favorite! Charming, witty, beautiful, delightful. Full of whimsy and heart and as is true of all Montgomery's books, stunning nature writing. And the sweetest romance there ever was (and a leading man with a most unfortunate name...). I laughed and cried - sometimes in the same chapter! This book rivals Anne for me,and that is something! Anne will always hold the top spot in my heart, but if not for nostalgia's sake, this one would sit right next to it.
I wonder if McCullough meant her book as a sort of tribute to Montgomery?There's a quite a bit in The Blue Castle that is early feminism.
The Blue Castle perfectly portrays the cultural and family disapproval young women of the time faced when they went against social norms.
Sadly, I know many people who have experienced a manipulative, selfish mother like Mrs Stirling, a nasty woman who thinks nothing of using this ugly method to control her child.
It angers me to know that many young women today are still up against the same obstacles that this book from the late 1920s portrays.
This just became one of my all-time favorites! In fact, this may be my favorite L.M. Montgomery book, and I'm a huge "Anne" fan! I loved Valancy saying exactly what she thought to her stuffy family. I loved the drama and the romance, and the beautiful descriptions of the Canadian wilds. What a great book! It's a treat to read, just a joy with every page!
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || Pinterest🌟 I read this for the Yule Bingo Challenge, for the category of Malfoy: Character you love to hate. For more info on this challenge, click here. 🌟Oh man, this was just the palate cleanser I needed after all those crazy bodice ripper romances. L.M. Montgomery, author of ANNE OF GREEN GABLES fame, brings to the table something wickedly funny and wholesomely real with THE BLUE CASTLE: a story of a bitterly unhappy girl who learns to discover h
L.M. Montgomery, author of ANNE OF GREEN GABLES fame, brings to the table something wickedly funny and wholesomely real with THE BLUE CASTLE: a story of a bitterly unhappy girl who learns to discover her true self in the face of a terrible tragedy.The plot actually reminded me of the 2006 film, Last Holiday, starring Queen Latifah, and I couldn't help but wonder if Last Holiday was in some part inspired by THE BLUE CASTLE.
I think THE BLUE CASTLE is written for a much more cynical audience who, like Valancy, hasn't quite given up hope...If you're a fan of clean and older romances, you should definitely pick up THE BLUE CASTLE.
This book made me cry. And it is very rare when a story makes me cry.This is one of Montgomery’s lesser know stories in The States. It got a reprint Stateside during the “Anne Mania” after PBS broadcasted the Canadian mini series.And the premis of the story goes like this, Possible Spoilers.......If you were told you only had a year to live, what would you do? And the main character crams in many things during that year. Which makes this book a fabulous adventure.Even though it has its sad parts, this book can help inspire one to do great things.
I was once guilty of THAT myself!) In her small, gossipy community, she has "failed to get a man," and is now a "hopeless old maid." Valancy herself has not yet given up hope that Romance (Yes- capital R!) will come her way.
As far as she could look forward it seemed certain to be just the same until she was nothing but a solitary, little withered leaf clinging to a wintry bough.But all that is about to change...A visit to a strange doctor about her odd chest pains brings some startling news, and suddenly...Valancy is speaking her mind (GASP!) and telling off her relations with wild abandon!"But I'm not a young girl," retorted Valancy, uncrushed.
With its uncomplicated plot, laugh out loud moments and familiar characters these books has the uncanny ability to reach out and bring to surface "that old feeling" which reminds you why you started reading in the first place.
"Live" for one thing and that is exactly what Valancy Sterling has in mind.
Living life takes a new meaning in the case of Valency Sterling.
Written with beautiful and imaginative voice the character of Valency has the ability to make you empathize with her and bring out that small part of you that recognizes the unpredictability and shortness of life.
Pretty sure this is the best romance novel I've ever read. Pretty sure. I wouldn't bet my life on it but I'd put it in the top five.
This is a sweet story about a spinstery spinster who conversely is given a new lease on life when her doctor pronounces a death sentence on her.
The first thing Valency does while squeezing out of society's cage is to see things (and people) as they truly are and speak the truth, niceties and platitudes be hanged!I have to say that if I wasn't pressured by my daugher to keep reading this, I would have given it up around page 45.
It read like a serious pity party.
No tall dark and handsome claptrap, just an honest to goodness decent guy for a change.
When we meet her on her birthday Valancy strikes us mostly as unhappy, kept down by family poor thing.Though I was in my teens when I read  The Blue Castle  for the first time I could easily identify with her, I understood her concerns and anxieties.
Oh, that joy when you can allow yourself to do what you please,  the luxury of speaking one's mind.And so Valancy sets out for her dreamed Blue Castle.
And if Valancy’s Blue Castle would turn out to be just an imaginary place woven from her unfulfilled dreams you need to check out for yourselves.
If a book could be a sumptuous feast, this would be one fit for a king.
I had no idea where Montgomery would take me.
I refused to read the French flap of this edition, therefore I felt so constricted and pressed down when I read about how Valancy had lived most of her life.
Not allowed to have opinions or have any say about anything including her wardrobe or reading material.
So the whimsical and funny turn the book takes really jostled me in the most pleasant way possible.
I reallly do need to read more of Montgomery's books.
:-)The Blue Castle told the intriguing tale of a twenty-nine year old woman living with her strict, bleak, colorless mother and cousin.
And yes, though slower paced, there’s just something about L.M. Montgomery’s writing style that I enjoy.
In any case, I ended up liking Valancy and adoring her story quite well.
I liked a lot of things about this love story.
Some things I didn’t like about The Blue Castle.
I will say though, once Valancy is more settling down, it does mention that she found a nice, country church, and liked it.
Two: Valancy was rude and a bit arrogant at certain parts.
Valancy Stirling is introverted love.«El miedo es el pecado original —dijo de pronto una voz suave y apacible que provenía de lo más profundo de la conciencia de Valancy—. Porque casi todo el mal que hay en el mundo tiene su origen en el hecho de que alguien tiene miedo de algo».Valancy Stirling vive en Derwood, cerca de Muskoka (Canada) , ella sigue soltera a los 29 años, odia su vida, su rutina, el seguir los dictados de su madre y tías, odia las burlas de sus tios. Pero nunca alza la voz , al
Porque casi todo el mal que hay en el mundo tiene su origen en el hecho de que alguien tiene miedo de algo».Valancy Stirling vive en Derwood, cerca de Muskoka (Canada´) , ella sigue soltera a los 29 años, odia su vida, su rutina, el seguir los dictados de su madre y tías, odia las burlas de sus tios.
* * *Probablemente para las chicas modernas les parecerá muy raro que una mujer de 29 años siga haciendo casos de los dictados de su familia, todo porque no está casada.
This is without question my favorite L.M. Montgomery! Even more so than Jane of Lantern Hill. More Heartwrenching and beautiful then any of her others. It will take me some time to sort my thoughts out on this one. Valancy has had about enough of her family's nit-picking, if they remind her one more time about her being an unwanted old maid, she feels that she will burst. Then Valancy finds that her heart is not only having strange jumpy spells, but is leaving her crippled with pain at times. S
Valancy has had about enough of her family's nit-picking, if they remind her one more time about her being an unwanted old maid, she feels that she will burst.
For the first time in her life Valancy feels free, she says what she wants, (most of the time), works for Roaring Able and she helps his daughter Cissy, the towns shunned fallen woman.
But that doesn't matter, because for the first time in her life, Valancy is blissfully happy.
A house that always looked like a stupid, prosperous, self-satisfied man with warts on his face."A house like that," said Valancy solemnly, "is a blasphemy."Mrs. Frederick was shaken to her soul.
She held Valancy back on the landing as Cousin Stickles went downstairs."Won't you try to remember you're a lady?" she pleaded."Oh, if there were only any hope of being able to forget it!" said Valancy wearily.Mrs. Frederick felt that she had not deserved this from Providence.To her family's uncomprehending horror, Valancy not only leaves home, but takes a job and - SHOCKER - appears to be completely happy.
The second half of the book takes a slightly more dramatic turn (cue "hidden" identities, and "surprising" discoveries), as Valancy negotiates a delightful relationship with laid-back Barney Snaith.
(I read this as a library e-book.)Having just polished off a couple of modern Regencies with the Dying Hero trope, I had asked if anyone had encountered one with a dying heroine, because I was curious how they would compare.
The differences in time, place, and style of the writing from this century-old book overwhelmed the comparison, alas for science, but it was a very enjoyable read nonetheless.
I don't see how humans can live in cities.I'm still looking for a more modern dying heroine, for comparisons.
LOVED THIS ONE SOO MUCH!! :D I think it will definitely be a reread! So happy that I finally got the chance to read it :)
Se non avevate mai sentito parlare di questo romanzo è perché, sebbene sia del 1926, è appena stato pubblicato per la prima volta in Italia grazie alla Jo March, casa editrice che non smette di regalarci gioie, riportando alla luce tesori nascosti altrimenti destinati a rimanere nell’oblio (almeno nel panorama editoriale italiano, dove invece, chissà come mai, i fenomeni editoriali più beceri proliferano come l’amanita muscaria).
Valancy ha trovato una via di fuga nel suo castello blu: un palazzo immaginario dove si rifugia sin da piccola ogni volta che ne sente il bisogno.Arriva un giorno, però, in cui non riesce più a raggiungere il suo paradiso interiore e si vede dispiegare davanti a sé il grigiore di un’esistenza vuota, segnata dall’amarezza.
My second time reading this was even more delightful than the first! I inhaled this book in two days, and it refreshed me wonderfully.
Because of his books, she loves nature and doesn't fear the woods, the lake, or the night.
So...walking away from civilized Deerpark into the wilderness "up-back" near the lake, she becomes housekeeper to the town drunk --a likable old rascal -- and carefully nurses his dying daughter, a former classmate.
:)This is not always a light-hearted tale, but it is sooo satisfying to see Valancy come into her own.
Predictable at times, but Montgomery managed to surprise me with one key detail of Barney's mysterious past.
Also, too many passive tellings about life on the island, at times coming across like a list.
