https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/292365.Dopefiend
It is nothing close to high minded literature, it’s a junky writing about the world he knows, and I give him props over other junkies who never wrote a thing, just stole, whored, and shot shit.That having been said, this novel was completely hardcore!
It’s sort of like an epic after school special, but the subject matter is so horrific, a judge would question sentencing even the most hardened juvenile to read it.I can’t exactly judge the level of realism portrayed here; at times it seems over the top and yet when you think again, actually it seems even the most outlandish events described, or worse, could have happened, to some unfortunate soul on this earth.
Dopefiend is a phenomenal, devastating book.
It's far better than the three novels by Donald Goines that I've read up to this point.
Never Die Alone was OK, but was too short and sketchy to have much of an impact, and the first two Kenyatta novels--which Goines wrote under his "Al C.
Dopefiend seems more autobiographical, and there's a compassion for his characters that I felt was missing in his other books.
That's not to say that Goines spares his characters any suffering--this is one of the most miserable narratives you will ever read--but I got the sense that he knew these people and cared for them, even if there was no hope for any of them.
The junkie fever is the manic look that I would see in the eyes of people who looked at my possessions and calculate how much they could sell them for.The drug den was the house that I would cross the street to avoid when walking to and from school.I loved the fact that there is a romantic (I use that term VERY loosely) relationship at the heart of this novel.
The characters in this book are living a dirty, desparate, infected, bloody and twisted version of life.
Donald Goines was a wildly talented author whose work I think should be read by everyone, especially other authors no matter what genre they write in.
Goines continues the story showing the extremes that Terry and Teddy go to, to get money for the drugs.
The story captures the turbulent love of Terry and Teddy and shows the outcomes of a dope fiend life.
Initially Terry’s parents did not know she was doing any drugs, it wasn’t until they found out she was stealing from her job that they found out.
Sometimes I do get those feelings of guilt but I can overcome them, like Terry did.
Overall, this book was extremely interesting and Goines did a great job in portraying that way of life.
The book was absolutely chilling. It left me feeling as if my skin were crawling. It was disturbing. I have never read something so gruesome and brutally honest as this. I felt myself bringing my hand to cover my gaping mouth. I was awestruck.
The Real Deal!!!!!!
If there's one thing I've learned from Donald Goines and Iceberg Slim, it's this: for the love of god and all that's holy, stay off the goddamn needle! And if you're on it, get the fuck off now!
Donald Goines first saw the devil on the streets of Detroit back in the 1950's and wound up with a monkey on his back the size of Mighty Joe Young, eventually going belly up in the gutter at age 37 over a dope deal gone way south.
Despite what the young and elegantly wasted, Velvet Underground, or Keith Richards may lead you to believe, there's nothing glamorous about sticking a spike into your vein.To be honest, there's not much to like about ANY of the characters here, Detroit ghetto rats chasing the dragon's tail and entirely consumed with that next dimebag of smack.
Brutal and hellish depiction of the lives of addicts in Detroit, around 1970. For the most part the novel follows a young couple, Terry and Teddy, as they descend into addiction and crime to fill their junk-need.
It vividly describes the hard life of a junkie in the streets.
The plot of the story revolves around a young fiend named Teddy.
Porky gets a serious rush from seeing people weak to his will, especially women.
Later in the book, Terry hooks up with a young fiend named Minnie, who is pregnant and heavily hooked on heroin.
She eventually gets Terry hooked on drugs as well.
Terry eventually resorts to stealing from her parents and prostitution in order to get a fix.
The details of Teddy’s struggle and decline are disturbing; but, his life and death are a vivid morality tale.
Mr goines took me on an adventure an i explored baby yes Lord powerful book! Whew wow! Masterpiece
this book was one of the first adult-fiction books that i read. it was extremely graphic (as is the nature of d.goines novels) but the characters and the writing style pulled me into the book...even if you are un-accustomed to the subject-matter, you feel drawn-in and i definately felt like i learned a little about the pull and addiction of drugs. the ending was unforgettable, both image-wise and in a literary sense. Great Book!
No words needed
There's a scene in this book I'll never get out of my head.
Addicts face the problem on their own, and they can only turn to other people in the heroine culture, which seals their coffins shut with them still alive, inside.My takeaway from reading this book, and others, like The New Jim Crow by Michelle Alexander, and Chasing The Scream by Johann Hari, and other novels by Donald Goines, is that drug addiction needs to be treated like a medical problem.
We need to show compassion and provide medical help for drug addicts.
Instead, when Nixon launched the War on Drugs, federal dollars were allocated towards State police based on narcotics arrest quotas.
This is my eighth D. Goines novel read this year and so far, my favorite. This 'junkie' novel(about a young black couple who are strung out on dope) is so raw. The explicit detailing of the dopefiends prepping, cooking, inserting the drug was intense to read. I can actually visualize it (not bad for a non-drug user) This story was as real then (written in 1972) as it is today, which is sad and pathetic. Donald Goines, who was also a junkie for most of his short life LIVED the dopefiend life and did a great job writing about it.
Wowzer!!!!! What a shame!
Before reading Dopefiend I never knew the importance of an addict having their ‘morning do’ and unclogged works.
Donald takes you through physiological minds from two perspectives, the drug dealer and the user.
Dopefiend is a very bleak description of drug usage that takes place in the 70’s in Detroit Michigan.
His vivid details made me feel like I was in the drug house helping Smokey find a vein, or running out of the local store with my floor model black and white TV screen.
Dopefiend By Donald Goines I finally got round to reading my first book by Donald Goines, something I had been wanting to do for about 15 years at least, and I have to say I wished I had done so years ago.
Dopefiend is exactly what you would imagine of a book with a title like that, it comes across as a Black Detroit version of William Burroughs Junkie.
In that it tells you everything you ever wanted to know about being a smack head in Detroit at the end of the 60's/turn of the 70's.The book centres around Porky's shooting gallery and the lives of his customers, all of whom seem to only do heroin and almost no other drugs whatsoever!
Donald Goines Dopefiend is a great book to read.
I enjoyed reading this book because it really describes how a simple drug can change your life forever.
I also like how realistic Donald makes the books, he doesn't sugarcoat anything.
I wouldn't recommend the book to anyone under the age of 17 because of the fact that the book deals with adult themes that children wouldn't be able to understand.
I would recommend the book to all races, so that they can see how the drug cocaine can take over any and every ones life.
This one’s complicated for me.On one hand, I read this book in two days and couldn’t put it down.On 
This was definitely one of the easiest and quickest reads for me. Goines' prose flowed as if he were a literal shadow of each character, transcribing their every thought, action and emotion. I think it's a beautiful gift to write this way, as it is much harder than it seems. The themes in the book will probably be a bit too gritty for some people, but there is no filtering or watering down the tough stuff and I appreciate that. I'm officially a Goines fan and I think this is a great introduction to his work.
This is one of the readings I had to read for college, and man was it depressing.
This book tells the stories of young adults quickly pulled into the world of dope.
It tells of the struggles they go through daily just to get their fixes.
They shoplift, rob people (including their own families).
They risk their lives in the process, just to get enough money to take care of their habits, spending hundreds of dollars a day.
When reading this book you're faced with harsh reality of life, and the cruelty of people.
This book was a real page turner, it just wasn't my cup of tea.
This is the street lit the urban community needs to read. Donald Goines paints a dark and painful picture about what drugs to the user, how it gives power to the dealer, and the corruption in the community. This is not some over fantasied hip hop videos where the drug dealers are popping champagne. Goines tells it like it is, realistic and grotesque. I think this is a book everyone should read but particularly people in the urban communities who think the life of the dealer and user are all fun and games.
I listened to the audio version of this book & Whoreson.  ; &
It was book that I didn't really expect to like. It was recommended in writing my wrongs by Shaka. The first chapter hooked me in. It's an accurate depiction of what life is like when addicted to heroin. It was fast paced and kept my interest throughout the entire book. I plan to read more of his books.
At the beginning, the first chapter shocked me. But, as I got caught up in the story I just had to keep reading.Loved it! It was just so raw.

If you're having trouble concentrating, especially due to depression or anxiety, Donald Goines might be an author to try - this book was super readable and pulled me right out of my own problems.
Goines is a legendary author of urban fiction who published 16 books from 1969 to 1974, when he and his wife were killed in a murder that has never been solved.
This book is about heroin addiction and follows Terry, a middle class young black woman in Detroit, as she becomes addicted, and Teddy, her addicted boyfriend.

