https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28449270-today-will-be-different
(This review can also be found at The Slattern: http://theslattern.com/2017/02/17/tod...)DEJA VU, so much deja vu...This is a (sort of) sequel to Where'd You Go Bernadette, and there are several similarities between the two.The protagonist, Bernadette Eleanor, is a wildly talented middle-aged architect illustrator who seems to have lost her creative mojo after moving from New York to boring suburban Seattle.
The plot follows Eleanor over the course of one day trying to navigate, well, life.
Hilarity ensues.My main disappointment with this book wasn’t how similar it was to WDYGB; after all, if it ain’t broke don’t fix it.
I had been enjoying the first part of this novel, and then about halfway through I abruptly hit a wall where the quirkiness and mania and frenzied story jumping got so aggravating that I abandoned the book in frustration.This is the second Maria Semple book I was unable to finish — I also couldn't get into her novel "Where'd You Go, Bernadette." And since she's a popular author, I must conclude I'm just not the right reader for her books.
So, you may enjoy these novels more than I did.I will share what I had liked about "Today Will Be Different" before I got frustrated.
Today will be different.After that good beginning, we meet our messy heroine, Eleanor Flood, on what turns into a very hectic day.
There’s nothing that bad about the story of middle-aged animator Eleanor Flood, her hand-surgeon-to-the-stars husband Joe, and their precocious kid Timby, but nor is there anything very interesting about it.
The novel is one of those rare ones that take place all in one day, a setup that enticed me, but all Eleanor manages to fit into her day – despite the title resolution – is an encounter with a pet poet who listens to her reciting memorized verse, another with a disgruntled former employee, some pondering of her husband’s strange behavior, and plenty of being downright mean to her son (as if his name wasn’t punishment enough).“In the past, I’d often been called crazy.
Big difference."Since I'm one of the three people on earth who has not read the author's previous work - Where'd You Go, Bernadette, I may be the ideal audience for this book.
. .I liked it .
though I expect many, many will not.Your enjoyment of this book will depend solely on whether or not you like the main character Eleanor and her family.
If you're not a fan of novels about very white people experiencing first world problems, you'd best move on.
As I said, you may not like her.
I found her fascinating, and the book unpredictable.
I may be the only person on earth who has not read ‘Where did you go, Bernadette?’ the much acclaimed novel by Maria Semple that preceded this one.
But, when this one started getting lots of promotional coverage a while back, I placed a hold on it at the library, thinking I’d have plenty of time to read ‘Bernadette’ first, because the wait time was unreal.
Well, I forgot about the hold, and never did read ‘Bernadette’.
But, after seeing a few reviews, I thought maybe that was a good thing, and might give me a slight advantage, an opportunity to read this book without high expectations.
And that's kind of the same way that I feel about Maria Semple's latest, Today Will Be Different: it's a poor-man's Where'd You Go Bernadette?I don't know if Semple was consciously trying to write a book that mimicked Bernadette in any way, but it's definitely hard to avoid comparing the two.
They're both about women feeling out of place in their environment, to the point where they reach a breaking point.Today Will Be Different follows a day in the life of Eleanor Flood, an animator who lives in Seattle with her hand-surgeon-to-the-stars husband Joe and their precocious eight-year-old son Timby.
"Today I will be my best self, the person I'm capable of being. Today will be different..." –Eleanor FloodDo you ever scroll through your friends' Instagram pictures, their Facebook family vacation albums to exotic locales, or just spend all night eating a pint (okay maybe 2) of rum raisin ice cream and scrolling through Pinterest only to feel like utter crap because your life seems so minuscule and unorganized compared to everyone else? That happens to me...a lot! It's why I have a love/hate r
No person has everything as together as they'd like things to appear, and that's where Eleanor Flood comes into play because I can relate to her desire to wake up and change everything about herself.She isn't the most caring, nurturing character I've come into contact with in my reading adventures, but her self-deprecating attitude doesn't belie the immense love and loyalty she has for those closest to her.
I haven't read Where'd You Go, Bernadette, and I understand a lot of her fans were disappointed that it took a completely different turn, but think of where The Rolling Stones would be if they never changed things up a bit, or A Tribe Called Quest, for that matter, making a comeback after what seemed like eons.
Everything starts out promising.....on the FIRST PAGE.....then it's a little roller coaster ride -- the dips -- and the highs.Our narrator tells us "Today will be different"....
The next 9 pages we learn how her old ways weren't working....things she felt irritable about, and lots of bitching about a woman named Sydney Madsen--a friend she hasn't been able to shake for ten years.
We also learn her husband is named Joe. They moved from New York to Seattle 10 years ago.
I wasn't yet half way into this book-- but about 50 pages into it --WHILE HOME NURSING A SORE THROAT- THROBBING HEAD ACHE ..
From the very first page, I was hooked – and remained so every step of the way.Eleanor Flood is the renowned animator of a popular cartoon called Looper Wash – a New York transplant in Seattle, where she lives with her husband (a hand surgeon for the Seahawks) and her wise-beyond-his-years third-grade son Timby (his name might have been Timothy, but the iPhone autocorrected it).
Who hasn’t come up against the PC police (Timby’s friend – a girl!
It’s a book for any reader who is striven to become one’s best self despite the odds.
This book is basically the story of this completely unsympathetic character, this character I don’t give two shits about, running around like a jackass, son and dog in tow.
But as Eleanor doesn’t seem like a real person to me, I didn’t try too hard to believe anything that happens in the book.
Being more sensitive to this sort of thing because fucking hell, the poor dog is really the only decent character (aside from Timby) in this book, I’m distracted for the next almost 150 pages: where’s the dog?
Especially when your head is a constant whirl of too many thoughts and too much baggage and family secrets and thwarted ambitions and self-loathing and wry observatory brilliance.I don't feel like this summary is going well; the book sounds normal and boring when actually it's kooky and pell-mell and sharp and so funny.
Plus there's a whole secret plot with other family members that I will not spoil at all, and another about the agony and ecstacy of the life of a poet-for-hire who is also a guy who gives out samples at Costco, and a totally explainable incident where Eleanor steals one of Timby's classmate's parents' keys, and a Grievance List, and a thwarted book deal or two, and hand surgery in Africa, and haughty drunken hijinks in New Orleans, and a harrowing funeral in Aspen, and on and on.
I enjoyed the author's Where'd You Go Bernadette? I was hoping for another entertaining read, but was disappointed. The main character, Eleanor, was self-centered and obnoxious, a doctor's wife taking poetry lessons, pretending to be friends with someone she criticized behind their back, and begrudging time spent with her young son. The plot was all over the place, between learning about her estranged sister, her dysfunctional childhood, her husband's mysterious secret, and her life in Seattle as a former animator. My impression of this novel was that it tried too hard to be funny, but wasn't.
Instead of behaving like a well-rounded, functioning adult today Eleanor will have to deal with a missing husband (who has told the office he’s on vacation), a “sick” kid who has used the bellyache excuse to get out of school numerous times in the past couple of weeks, a book deal that maybe isn’t a reality any longer, and if that’s not reminder enough that she’s sort of a big fail, she’ll also dredge up some memories from the past when she’s “triggered” by a keychain bearing the name Delphine.
Maria Semple most definitely has a unique sense of humor, and if you don’t share it you probably won’t like this one much.
After you find where Bernadette actually went, you will inevitably begin to crave another deep into the wacky world of American Northwest mothers: they are a species less romantic than the Sex and the City Gals, albeit more human.
Not less refined, nor less entertaining, but yeah: waaay more human.Semple's sophomore novel is arguably one of the best comedic novels of all time.
Semple writes love stories that are devoid of syrupy sentimentality or any other known conventions.
At the point in which the character realizes, wait a minute, "I love Josh" (Clueless, 1995)...
this is when the character's transformation/plot's apex transpires.
Like I said, the humanity in these women is what must be highlighted, applauded.
It took one glass of wine and 12 pages for me to realize I couldn't go the distance here. I adored Where Did You Go, Bernadette, but this feels like snark, not satire. I'm not in the mood.
This book is kind of clunky and with all of the flashbacks, I felt like I was constantly having to get my bearings in this book. But it is a quick read, still has that Maria Semple wit, and has a lot more heart than I was expecting.
I read this book twice in a row: the first time weeping with laughter and slack-jawed in wonder; the second time so I could try to figure out Maria Semple does it.
I think she was just born with a gift.For fans of Bernadette: get ready for your new favorite book.
For fans of blazing wit, bottomless empathy, and the kind of side-blinding observations about art and life with which true literary fiction can smack one upside the head: read all three Semple books.
(Especially the first one, which received no buzz, but is one of my favorite L.A. stories of all time.)
Today Will Be Different is an interesting read.
Semple’s last book, Where’d You Go, Bernadette, was laugh-out-loud funny and very entertaining.
I was hoping that Today Will Be Different would be the same.
While it is entertaining, laugh-out-loud funny it is not.
I also love the concussion app that Timby found when he was worried his mother Eleanor had a concussion – every five minutes it randomly asks a new question meant to check a person’s alertness.
I was glad I read today Will Be Different, but Where’d You Go, Bernadette remains my favorite by far.
Where'd You Go Bernadette was one of my favorites last year, so my expectations for Today Will Be Different were admittedly quite high, which may be the reason I felt more disappointed than I would have had this been written by another author.
In a way, the style of this book, even the plot is not very different from Where'd You Go Bernadette, but in the latter, I cared about the characters, and their moodiness felt understandable.
Unfortunately, I found the plot very slow and uneventful, and the revelation that could have rounded out Eleanor's character came much too late for me to care a whole lot.
It's funny, endearing, totally real, and charming in a quirky way - everything good in a saturday morning read.
But as the pages flipped on, I found myself more and more lost, wondering "what really is the point here?" Which, as I write that I'm thinking...maybe THAT'S the point.
Sometimes I'd start a chapter only to halfway through realize this wasn't a flashback after all.
Time to start over and gain new insight, I guess.
Anyone that likes books that are light, quirky, and feel slightly disjointed but together enough to make sense in the end.
It’s an oft used British phrase describing when one has lost the ability to understand or cope with what is happening, except in this case, it is both literal AND metaphorical.There is a framework of a plot, but in structure and voice, elements seemed incompatible and the feeling of disjointedness made for a somewhat bewildering read.
But the thorny part is that the voice jumps from first person to third person narration for the main event and then back again which lends to this feeling of confusion.My favorite parts involved Timby, Eleanor’s wise beyond his years child and sidekick throughout this wacky day.
A rather strange book...I'd call it "stream of consciousness" writing. It had some funny moments, especially the scenes involving her son, Timby. I got a little confused at times but got back on track pretty quickly. Overall, not bad. The narrator was great!
Timby is a precocious kid who should be in school, but seems to prefer hanging out with his mom and driving her to the point of distraction (the job of most kids) where she hands him her purse and flees, leaving him with a man she barely knows.The tone of the narration, in general, is a bit on the sarcastically snappish, the story wanders back and forth through time, missing her sister who is no longer in her life, a dictate, more or less, from the brother-in-law who wants them out of the picture, then back to her husband Joe, or Timby or something else, someone else.
Really wanted to like this book, but it's a mess.
The premise is brilliant - all Western women, I bet, start their days with the resolution to do everything right this time, and to have a perfect day, which is a sure fail, of course.
She mixes in irrelevant characters, uninteresting and even bizarre plotlines, and her protagonist is not a real woman, not to mention her very strange son.
The only interesting and human character in this book is the husband, but unfortunately we don't get enough of him or of what is actually going on with him.
Semple is talented and super-intelligent, but I'll be saving my time for her next novel.
At first I thought the heteronormative world view (women need husbands and are fulfilled and defined by them) and the "love you no matter what" (control freak Joe who claims he pays "for all this circus" gets portrayed as somehow good and desirable) was one of the "problems" of the narrative, along with the superficiality, lack of relationship and consumer driven capitalist lifestyle of Eleanor and her dysfunctional family.
Despite being wealthier than most of the world I think Eleanor, Joe and Timby are "the masses" they seem to exist only to consume and to "feel good".I am honestly sorry I couldn't like better than this a book about an adult survivor of a parent's alcoholism.
Semi spoilers (in that they describe what happens at the end of the book but won’t ruin the central mystery of the story) to follow:(view spoiler)[ So for most of Eleanor’s trek across the city, she’s accompanied by her son and their dog.
Had Semple’s narration just skipped the bit where Eleanor gets the dog outside the store, I wondered?
But the story barreled on, and I realized: yep, that dog is definitely still tied up outside Home Depot, and I think Maria Semple was counting on me being so wrapped up in the story that I wouldn’t remember the dog until the moment the characters realize that he’d been forgotten at the store.
2 1/2 starsThe book is told from the pov of a woman named Eleanor Flood who has an emotionally unhealthy sense of being and a chaotic life.
Eleanor Flood is cut from the same cloth as the protagonist (Bernadette) in Maria Semple's last book.
It feels forced and disengenuous, as if it was meant to piggyback on the formulaic success of the previous novel, like a sure bet.
She's a mere shadow in the face of the full character of Bernadette in Maria Semple's previous novel.
It seems unfair to compare the two characters, but the truth is that it's unavoidable since Eleanor was created to be Bernadette 2.0.
Also cringe-worthy but brutally reflective of real life is Eleanor's encounter with a former coworker, once a real underachiever, now turned famous artist.
All of this is accompanied by a wonderfully funny take on life and its mishaps.This is one of those books that's easy to read and over before you notice, leaving you wanting more of Semple's great writing.Thanks to Little, Brown and Good Reads for allowing me to read the advanced reader's copy of this book.
I know it's a very simplified review, but it's in the mood of the book, so don't pout.
The most important thing here is HOW, then WHAT, then WTF.
I guess I was in the right mood for this book, because I almost absolutely loved it, as much as I loved Where'd You Go, Bernadette and couldn't put it down through all of my weekend.
Check it out anyway, the good thing about this book is that you may notice if you like it or hate it right after you begin the reading.
If you’re traveling with someone who’s confident, organized, and decisive you become the Helpless Traveler: “Are we there yet?” “My bags are too heavy.” “My feet are getting blisters.” “This isn’t what I ordered.” We’ve all been that person.
But if the person you’re traveling with is helpless, then you become the one able to decipher train schedules, spend five hours walking on marble museum floors without complaint, order fearlessly from foreign menus, and haggle with crooked cabdrivers.
Not the framed greatest hits, but the moments between.” ― Maria Semple, Today Will Be DifferentBy the way, that passage on motherhood and brain cells?
