https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2971.The_Autobiography_of_Mark_Twain
“In this Autobiography I shall keep in mind that I am speaking from the grave. I am literally speaking from the grave, because I shall be dead when the book issues from the press”(Twain xxxv). The Autobiography of Mark Twain explores the many aspects and anecdotes of Mark Twain’s life, as well as the many people who influenced Twain and his work immensely. He reveals his personal thoughts of the people around him, and the world around him. He reveals himself as a person who writes what he knows,
I am literally speaking from the grave, because I shall be dead when the book issues from the press”(Twain xxxv).
The Autobiography of Mark Twain explores the many aspects and anecdotes of Mark Twain’s life, as well as the many people who influenced Twain and his work immensely.
Mark Twain’s presentation of his own life is vivid and full.
Though his writing was chaotic at times, the Twain flair makes the chaos more exciting, more lively than an ordinary autobiography.
However, in the end, the strengths of The Autobiography of Mark Twain highlights this book as an exciting read.
I started crying from happiness at about page two. When I finished this book, Joe and I got in the car and drove directly to his house in Hartford CT and I cried all the way through that too. He is wonderful, brilliant, genius. Learning about his life from his own pen felt like a gift. From him, I've gleaned tiny informative bits to add to my mental notes on "how to write."
BUT, it was not a finished work, Mark Twain dictated a lot of it toward the end of his life, and it was pieced together after his death.
Loads of intricate thoughts put into striking forms, like: "As a rule, technicalities of a man's vocation and figures and metaphors drawn from it slip out in his talk and reveal his trade; but if this ever happened in Macfarlane's case I was none the wiser, although I was constantly on the watch during half a year for those very betrayals." This is a great thought: to listen to images used by someone to guess who they are.
Mark Twain ends his autobiography with the death of his daughter Jean (he asked his editor to do so if he thought it appropriate).
This is NOT the Mark Twain Post 100 years Autobiography that everyone is talking about.
Vol. 1 is found elsewhere on GRs.Neider's most important book, however, was arguably The Autobiography of Mark Twain (1959), in which he fashioned a chronological structure that was lacking in the original material and included never-before-published passages.
This book is really a series of short stories told as if a Mark Twain impersonator was standing up in front of you on stage.
With Mark Twain it is always hard to figure out when he is telling the truth.
Other books you read, they affect you, they touch your life, your heart, your soul, and you are changed, a different person afterwards.
I absolutely fell in love with Mark Twain and his autobiography.
It is even more interesting when you realize that Mark Twain never actually wrote an autobiography.
I was just so taken in by the humanity of Mark Twain, his was an American life to be sure, but it was more than that.
This was one of the few books that I have read where I actually had tears streaming down my face when I closed the last page.
I like this.
It helps it read more like a journal.
The accounts of the vast mounts of money he made and lost and his extensive travel make for a fascinating read in and of themselves.
Add to that Twain's trademark tongue-in-cheek humor, and it is a whole lot of fun.
I would love to go back and read this after becoming intimately familiar with all his work, because he tells about people upon whom many of his characters were based, and I thought that a lot of fun.
Kind of like meeting the characters in real life.
I'd give this 4.5 stars if I could.Incredibly humorous and charming, as is natural of Twain. Very many interesting anecdotes about his life and encounters with the figures of his time. Many timeless observations throughout. Also a refreshing format for a biography, he just talks about whatever pleases him at the time. The only problem is for such an enormous book, I was expecting a lot more which was devoted to the actual autobiography. The scraps and notes are still worth looking at, though.
When it was good it was very very good but when it was bad it was boring af.
وهو دائمًا يمشي إلى الأمام وإلى الخلف في الغرفة أثناء التفكير وبين أوقات الطعام...يستخدم بابا لغة قوية جدًّا، ولكن ليس لدي معلومات أكيدة بخصوص الوقت الذي تزوج فيه ماما.
لم يكتب مارك توين إلا القليل، مع أنني أظن أنه كان يملك الكثير ليقوله لنا، لكنه اكتفى ببعض الأحداث في حياته، وهي الأكثر تأثيراً ربما، وسأنقل لكم بعضًا من سيرته هنا:رفض الناشر لكتابه الأول، وبعد أعوام كثيرة التقى به مرة أخرى فقال له الناشر: "في الحقيقة لست بالشخص المهم على الإطلاق، ولكن لدي من المزايا ما أفخر به ويمكنه أن يخلد ذكراي، فقد رفضت كتابك، وبذلك فأنا أستحق جائزة الغباء في القرن التاسع عشر دون منازع".مارك توين، كان السبب في وفاة ابنه البالغ تسعة عشر شهرًا، فالجو كان باردًا ولم ينتبه إليه وقد كان بجانبه، والغطاء انكشف عن الطفل، فمرض مرضًا شديداً ومات.توفيت ابنته بمرض السحايا، ثم بعد أعوام توفيت زوجته، وبعدها توفيت ابنته الثانية، وكل هذا حدث أمامه.في وفاة زوجته كتب مما كتبه: "الساعة تشير إلى الحادية عشر والربع ليلاً، واليوم هو الأحد، الخامس من يونيو 1904.
Twain wanted to make sure that his autobiography wasn't predictable.
The differences that it's Mark Twain who is telling the stories.
Instead I dipped into it from time to time before I went to sleep, got hold up a great story, a vivid memory, and hilarious anecdote, and then I went off to sleep with Mark Twain's voice in my head.
It reminded me in some ways of listening to my grandfather tell me stories about his life whenever I was a 10-year-old.
I wasn't sure all the stories were true, but he didn't really care, because they were great.
I ought to have read through this much faster and less thoroughly since I was looking specifically for musical references while researching a Twain-themed library music program, but I couldn't help but read through most of it, especially towards the beginning.
Yes, Twain constantly rambles into miscellaneous musings but those musings are often pure gold, skillfully rendered with often gut-splittingly hilarity.
He was an international celebrity at this point who didn't have to write anything except exactly what he wanted to and what seems to have fascinated him most were individuals from his past, both the obscure (such as citizens of Hannibal) and the great (such as Ulysees S.
Grant, who Twain admired and Bret Hart, who he despised).
Painful and wonderful. Read the full review: http://classiclit.about.com/od//fl/Th...
Mark Twain is an exceptional writer and this autobiography is worth reading. He expounded a bit much on some of the people he describes, thus making it more of a story than a strict autobiography. The loss of his children and wife were sad to learn.
I defy anyone to read this book and not to love this man.
The humor of a man who lived life sincerely and felt things deeply.
It is the humor of a man who loved life well, and saw in it, always, something of majesty and mystery and delight.
I don't know that I would have wanted to read this book, rather than having listened to it, for it is true that there is little of organization or continuity.
But what matters that, when you are having a conversation (rambling, disjointed, marvelous), with such a man?
Twain was brutally honest, devoting entire chapters to times of personal loss and failure.
He covers one particular night when he bombed at a lecture, showing no particular ego.
In another he covers the night his brother died with savage emotional honesty.
Most of it is witheringly funny and all of it is worthwhile and insightful, casting out on all possible topics, even ones he wasn't comfortable publishing about in his own day.
That's why this book contains chapters only released after his death - some decades after.
The best bit is that there are still things he wasn't ready to share, not until a hundred years had gone by.
Mark Twain on "the Thing Called an Authors' Reading" "I think that [Thursday afternoon at Vassar] was the first exploitation of a new and devilish invention—the thing called an Authors’ Reading.
There were nine readers on the list, and I believe I was the only one who was qualified by experience to go at the matter in a sane way.
I knew, by my old acquaintanceship with the multiplication table, that nine times ten are ninety, and that consequently the average of time allowed to each of these readers should be restricted to ten minutes.

Not only the episodes about his mother and brother (characters in his books – Sid and Aunt Polly, for those who remember), but especially the memories about his wife and daughters.
Susy’s biography, written when she was about 14 (have no idea if it ever got to be published) is at the same time, funny, objective and delicate.In some smaller parts it’s boring – consider the episodes about his troubles with business partners, copyrights a.s.o. But then again, family comes into sight, with focus on his wife, Olivia, an extremely determined woman, who always found a way to get out of financial problems.
This book was dictated in the final years of his life, and I felt like I was sitting in front of Mark Twain and hearing him tell me his story as a friend would.
I laughed and got choked up multiple times as I read about his triumphs, misadventures, and losses.
The structure is unlike any other autobiography I've read, as it follows a generally chronological timeline, but deviates from this course at will and occasionally breaks up the narrative with excerpts from letters and diaries.
A fascinating book for any fan of Twain or American history.
Brilliantly and hilariously mean, for the most part.
A rather disconnected collection of memories, anecdotes, and rants, set aside to be published posthumously.
Twain spends several chapters each excoriating a former business partner of his and the writer Bret Hart.
Of the widow of a poet friend, he says, "A strange and vanity-devoured, detestable woman!
He also talks about his religious skepticism and other subjects that he did not feel free to publish during his life.
Nicely cynical and yet also sometimes quite moving on the subject of his family and good friends and their loss.
I found this book to be fascinating. There are personal philosophies, political aspects and well thought out plans incorporated in every page. Being one who journals, I was intrigued by the notes Twain left behind, things like "publish all of this but not until I am dead." the thought of not publishing his biography until he had been dead for a hundred years was genius, no worries about offending friends and acquaintances because they would also be gone as would likely be there children and potentially grandchildren. It was an interesting glimpse into into the mind of a great writer.
I read a biography of Mr. Twain because I was curious about the man. In it I learned that he published the "Personal Memoirs of Ulysses S. Grant", which I then read. And, just to see how he himself wrote it, I then read this, his autobiography.Are all the facts there? Are facts shoved around and bent for his nefarious purposes? Who cares! This is another great read from one of America's best writers of any century. A master of imagery and tale-telling, Clemens makes his life a pleasant read for all.
After reading this autobiography I have gained new insights into the genius of Clemens. It has given me a better perspective and understanding of his work. If you like his stuff, this will increase your appreciation for it. If you are curious about why people make such a big deal about Twain, this will help you answer that question too.
This compilation is very well done. I would love to have sat and had a cup of tea with this man. It is my privledge to be able to visit his only remaining original CT home (The Redding one is rebuilt after a fire destroyed its predecessor). A brilliant tragic life. Read it when you can.
O carte geniala, umor destept si fin.
I had to stop reading this one half way through. I got the feeling this was Mark Twain's last joke on the world.
Filled with truth and stretchers. I like the stretchers best.
There is a story that leads to another story, because of an incident related or a person remembered, and there are fascinating character profiles of persons known to us today as historical figures but who for Twain were personal acquaintances if not friends (for examples, Grant and Carnegie), and there are sorrowful remembrances of the deaths of his beloved ones.I would think that anyone who is interested in Twain, or who is just a lover of American literature and some of its principal figures, would find spending a couple of hours with this book to be of immense pleasure.While I read, Mark Twain/Samuel Clemens was still ALIVE speaking to me; when I closed its back cover he had rejoined the past, truly dead for over 100 years.
After fiddling around with the idea of an autobiography or memoir for a couple of decades, rejecting most of his efforts as too literary, he finally around 1902 hit on the idea of 1) eschewing chronology; and 2) dictating rather than writing the story of his life.
Like most people, I knew something about Twain’s life--his boyhood in Hannibal Missouri, his riverboat days which changed him from Samuel Clemens into Mark Twain, his adventures in the California/Nevada gold and silver country, his disastrous investment in a typesetting machine that cost him two years of international lecturing to pay the debt.
