https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/278470.The_House_of_a_Thousand_Lanterns
Buddy Read With Dorcas. :D I'm not sure how I feel about this, it had a dramatic ending, but by George it took awhile to get there! I guess the biggest problem was I wasn't ever afraid, it took to long to get the the scary parts, and by then I knew she'd come out fine. I don't understand why it took so long for the suspense to kick in, the first 3/4s of the book went in circles, was Jane in danger? Where was the secret of The House of a Thousand Lanterns hidden? Could Jane trust Joliffe? Could
I don't understand why it took so long for the suspense to kick in, the first 3/4s of the book went in circles, was Jane in danger?
His Uncle's feelings never crossed his mind, the selfish pig.Jane was a likable heroine, I didn't entirely see what she saw in the hero but, there's no accounting for tastes.
Not my favorite Holt, not near enough suspense, thrill or plot movement for me.PG, Jane is married and you know it for sure but all bedroom scenes are behind closed doors, some mistresses, mention of tea leaf reading, yarrow sticks and pleasing the Ancestors, (whatever that may entail)
Buddy read with Tweety.I almost gave this 2.5 stars but it probably deserves 3.Probably…For three quarters of the book I was waiting for something to happen.
Oh, things  happen but not suspenseful things.
Where was the chilling suspense?and the characters...I just better shut up.
But if you're new to the genre and can read a book without trying to "improve " it in your mind and if don't mind some senseless repetition and rooting for the wrong person then you'll probably enjoy this.
But she can do so much better.CONTENT:SEX: Behind closed doors, mention of mistresses.
Love this book! I don't know what it is about Victoria Holt, but it's always a fun, delightful read for me. She's a romantic thriller novelist, and apparently, that's a favorite genre for me. There's the intrigue of trying to figure out the mystery, but there's all the gushy, awesome romance that I need too. Her books are books that I can read over and over again.... and I do!

Remember Victoria Holt, Bev? Her books came endlessly through the Book Fair when we were teens and in retrospect I read too many. Wonderful historical escapist romances. Ahh... happy memories. It gets 4 stars not because I'm sure it was great fiction, but just for the happy memories of blissful, long St. Louis summers rummaging through the thousands of dusty boxes of books in the barn being sorted for the Greentree Fair. I won't admit how many other titles she wrote that I read...
This book has Gothic elements to it, but is more like a romantic suspense novel, or could even appeal to historical romance fans.
I had forgotten about this author for a long time, but when my interest in Gothic fiction was rekindled, a few years ago, I began searching out her books.
For those who are interested, there are a few of VH novels available in digital format, but she has a huge library of work, so investing in a print copy is most likely your best bet.
This gothic is set in Victorian British Hong Kong. In addition to the mystery and adventure, you definitely get a feel of the city from the English point of view at the height of the Empire.These stories will always be special to me because they were commuting mainstays during high school and lead me to other authors.
Books written by Victoria Holt are so cheesy, but sometimes that's exactly what you need. I've read a loooot of her books when I was 14/15 years old..that was the last time I've read them. I absolutely loved them at the time. I'm thinking of reading one of her books just for the old times sake! =)
I used to like Victoria Holt, but this time through it was pretty bad.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/13772487
One of my top 5 favorite Holt's.
Loved this mystery book
ලනතෑරුම දහසේ නිවහන - විකටෝරියා හෝලට1906දී එංගලනතයේ උපත ලද එලිනෝර හිබරට නම යුවතිය ආරූඪ නම කිහිපයකින සිය ගරනතකරණයේ යෙදුණි. එනම විකටෝරියා හෝලට, පිලිපා කාර සහ ජීන පලේඩි යන නම වලින වූ අතර වඩාතම ඇය පරසිදධ වූයේ විකටෝරියා හෝලට යන අනවරථ නාමයෙනි. ඇයගේ ජීවිත කාලය තුළ ඇය නවකතා 200කට අධික සංඛයාවක රචනා කළාය.මැය එංගලනතයේ මිඩලසෙකස විශවවිදයලයේ උපාධිදාරිනියක වන අතර ලොව විශිෂටතම ලේඛයින වූ චාරලස ඩිකනස, එමිලි බරොනටේ, ජෝරජ එලියට විකටර හියුගෝ ,ලියෝ තොලසතෝයි වැනි ලේඛකයන ගේ අභාශය සහ පනනරය ලද බව සුපරසිදධ මතයකි.1961 වන වි
මෙය එංගලන්තයේ සුන්දර ගැමි පරිසරයක තම මවත් සමග ජීවත් වුන දැරියක් තම පියාගෙ අභාවයෙන් පසුව "රෝලන්ඩ් ක්‍රොෆ්ට් " නම් මහා මන්දිරයක ජිවත් වීමට යෑම වටා ගෙතුණු සුන්දර කතාවක් වේ.සිල්වෙස්ටර් මිල්නර් නම් එම මන්දිරයේ අයිතිකරු ගෙන් ලද දැනුම් සම්භාරයෙන් තුරුණු වියට පත්වූ පසු ඇය ලබන පන්නරයත්, අහඹුව ඇයගේ ජීවිතයට එක්වන ජෙලිෆර්ගේ ආදරය හේතුකොටගෙන ඇයගේ ජීවිතයේ සිදුවන පෙරළිය ඉතාමත් සුන්දරව මැය විසින් රචනයට ලක් කර ඇත.පසුකාලීනව ඇයගේ ජීවිතයට උදාවන අඳුරු යුගයත් සමගින් ආදරය සිතේ සඟවාගෙන දිරිය ගැහැණියක් ලෙසින් ජීවිතයට මුහුණ දෙයි.ඒ අතරතුර හොංකො රාජ්‍යයෙහි පුදුමාකාර නිවහනක අයිතිකරු වීමට ඇයට ඉඩකඩ ලැබෙන අතර එහි වසර ගණනක සිට සැඟවී ඇති රහස සොයා සිල්වෙස්ටර් සමගින් යාමේදි ඇයට විවිධ සිදුවීම් වලට මුහුණ පෑමට සිදුවේ.එය කූතුහලය නංවමින් රචකයා ලියා ඇති ආකරය ලගන්නාසුලුය.නුහුරු පරිසරයක විවිධාකාරය හැගීම් අදහස් වලින් පිරුණු මිනිසුන්ගෙන් ඇය ලද ජීවන අත්දැකීම් බොහෝය.එංගලන්තයේ සමාජ පසුබිමට සහ සිරිත් විරිත් වලට බෙහෙවින්ම වෙනස්වූ සමාජ පසුබිමක විවිධ වු මිත්‍යා විශ්වාස ,සිතුම් පැතුම් හා ගැටෙමින් ජේන් මේ සියළු අභියෝග ජයගනී.
She also learns more about Sylvester’s House of a Thousand Lanterns, and about the rivalry that arose from what once was a family business: now Sylvester’s nephews Adam and Joliffe are in competition with him in the Chinese art business.One day, Jane is out walking in the English countryside near the manor when she is caught in a rainstorm.
Their marriage is passionate, but we also begin to see that Joliffe may not be entirely trustworthy, as Jane finds herself very jealous of the women in Joliffe’s life, how charming he is and how much women like him.
For the first time in forever I read a book in just one night.
I bought the Spanish edition (with an awful and even misleading cover, by the way) of this book over a year ago.
Although this book hasn't changed my life and I know next week I won't even remember the name of the characters; I have to admit that I thoroughly enjoyed it.
But I liked this book.
I will probably never read this book again, but yeah, I liked it!
The quote below is an example:>“The sooner you begin with Mr. Sylvester Milner the better,” she said.
My duties with Mr. Sylvester Milner had begun.<As usual with Ms Holt much of this novel revolves around a long suspenseful build-up to a climax that's over too soon.
She's great at building suspense, creating mystery, but tends to resolve her heroine's most trying moments too quickly and too easily, as I feel she's done here.Overall, “The House of a Thousand Lanterns” is a good read, though the ending had the potential to have been much better.
This book was so atmospheric and I really liked the protagonist (or maybe the way the reader read the characters).
This felt so much fun and more lively than the India Fan. I just really, thoroughly enjoyed it, and got wrapped up in the mystery and the suspense and the descriptions.
Although Holt's characters never seem to fall in love with the people I want them to.
:PIf you like "gothic romance"-style tales full of hidden passageways and underhanded plots and dark mysteries and hidden treasures and haunted houses...
that sort of thing.
You should really read Victoria Holt's books.
that sort of thing is gonna be there, and there's nothing overly horrible, so.
Cut and pasted from my other Victoria Holt review (her books are quite similar, so this is completely applicable to House of a thousand Lanterns as well:)Oh Victoria Holt.
This book is very much like her others.
You can always count on a young heroine, several suitors (but which one is best for her?), and a mystery/danger of some sort.
This book started out fun (I adore vintage suspense novels with great heroines and exotic locations although the time period was a little earlier than I normally love.) But the story rambled on and on and got a little tedious.
We read this for book club.
Much more Jane Eyre than the bodice-ripper romance I was expecting (dreading?).
I spent a number of pages scoffing at the fact that the mystery was so simple (although the story was good enough as it was that I kept reading), and then I was totally blindsided by the actual ending.
One complaint was that the ending felt rushed, and I was a bit disappointed that Jane didn't do more to attempt to save herself and her son from the Dread Tomb.
(That's not actually what it was called.)If you like the 19th-century gothic romances, this falls very nicely into that genre.
I guess it could take a rating of 3, but Personally, I did not like it a lot.
I felt while reading all the pages that the writer repeats herself a lot so I got bored easily and wanted sometimes to throw the book and quit reading it.
I could easily knew what gonna happen next or what the writer would say.I liked a lot the part about the Chinese Culture in every aspect.
I wanted to meet Jason, as I think, the writer was excellent in describing his attitude and behavior as a child.
Had a great start to it, but then it plodded along and never delved into anything remotely mysterious until the very end (even then it was rather weak).
I saw another reviewer mention that she (the author) often repeats herself...I, too, noticed this.
It really gets on your nerves after awhile.
Stuff like that throughout the entire book!
I've wanted to read a Victoria Holt book since I was a teenager so I can, at least, finally check her off my TBR list.
I highly doubt I'll ever pick up another...Daphne du Maurier is much more to my liking for this genre!
I liked it like I like all Holts.
At the end I thought there was no way she could give us any other villain but the hero: everything pointed in his direction.
I even didn't like him anymore, seeing him as evil.
The hero is never the villain, is he?
I was sceptical when I went through the explications of who the real villain was and why, but after a while came to accept it as quite plausible.
Kudos for Ms. Holt.While reading I once again noticed the easy way in which she writes.
It's like the reader really is presented with the diary of a normal woman.
Victoria Holt tried to create a "Janeyrish" style of writing and at some points her effort was really respectable but only that.I felt like the book was too quick and things sometimes just didn't happen.I wasn't scared at all.She could have handled the book differently because it's a promising read really but somehow it doesn't take off!
This is Victoria Holt novel #3 for me. Even though it's my least favorite thus far, it was still a good read. It wasn't overly simplistic, but it was not a hard read either - just enough to keep me interested. I don't much care for the lead male in the story - he was kind of...soggy?...which let me down in comparison to her other novels.
I love Victoria Holt's novels...I thought this one particularly good. I think Holt did a good job with the character development (esp. the heroine). She gained insight about herself, and grew as the story went continued. Other gothic novels that I've read are very light, fluffy, and predictable after the first several pages. I like that Holt tries a little more with her stories.
This was the first I've read from her collection of Books. I loved it and started searching for more of her books. Now since I discovered your site I can read them all!!But I still wont stop searching for the Books!!!
Fantastic suspense, some light and interesting history, and some nice romance. Passion but without the vulgar overbearing language that over-explains what the imagination can easily supply. I loved this book.
I have to give this book only two stars. It had such a good premise: love, mystery, ancient Chinese customs and artifacts---- but it was boring and laborious to get through. The end was finally exciting--- but to get to it was very hard. Not worth the read.
When I was growing up in the mid to late 70s, there really weren't "teen" novels and Victoria Holt was one of the authors my mother "approved" of me reading. Traditional Gothic romance, mystery and adventure, with no graphic sex.
3.5 starsAlthough reading Victoria Holt after a long time is quite different than when I was a teenager, I was still pulled into the story. And like always, I love the historical details and the ever-present creepiness.
