https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70771.Nightfall_and_Other_Stories
Isaac Asimov's 1969 anthology bundles together three types of story: substantial works of the early 1950s that had for whatever reason escaped his earlier anthologies; a few small, often whimsical works, often written on commission, from the late 1950s and the 1960s, after he had re-oriented his main career toward popular science writing and wrote fiction only occasionally; and "Nightfall", his 1941 masterpiece, that he had previously kept out of anthologies, probably out of resentment.
What if you lived on a planet with six suns and never knew what it was like to be in the dark?
What would it be like to never have experienced darkness?
Unfortunately for me, up until the end, the story was all about the scientists discussing what they thought was going to happen to the people and how they would react, instead of what actually happened once the darkness came.
Their theories about how people would react to the darkness seemed really exaggerated to me and kind of ridiculous.
His shorts usually entail a sort of puzzle, and a great deal of fun is trying to stay a step ahead of the characters (if you can) or see how Asimov will get his people out of a jam, or not, as is sometimes the case.
As usual, Asimov provides little introductions to each piece, describing its genesis and publication in chatty detail.
Asimov's assessments about the industry and his own work seem mostly right "on the money" to me, at least, and he was certainly right about "Green Patches", a great story to which John Campbell assigned the worthless title "Misbegotten Missionary".
I had been told that "Nightfall" is considered by many to be the best science fiction short story of all time.
It was good, but once again, I am not sure what makes a short story great.
I can say that unlike so many highly praised literary short stories, "Nightfall" did have a beginning, middle, and clear end.
So that was nice.One of the clear challenges in science fiction is to write something that is both imaginative yet not something that can become dated.
I suppose one of the great things about "Nightfall" is that it succeeds here.
Nightfall:Interesting idea, but I was constantly brought out of the story by what felt like little breaks - if these aliens had never seen stars or darkness, then how did they know about how to "simulate" stars? The technology level seemed to be all over the shop as well... But other than that it seemed like an interesting idea. Green Patches:Another interesting idea. I actually liked this one better than Nightfall. The idea of biologic organisms all in symbiosis - and being able to bring in other organisms into that symbiosis.
I've only read Nightfall from this compilation, and maybe it's just me but I didn't really enjoy it. People have claimed Nightfall is the greatest sci-fi short story ever written, and I was just bored with it. It felt like a business meeting, it didn't feel like it was sci-fi other than mentioning other stars and whatnot.But again, that's just me.
I have no interest in the novelist expansion w/ Silverberg. Mainly I just want the title story. I know that I have read it but for some reason it never sticks.
The renown author builds his narrative like a complex puzzle, with scattered hints that help his readers soon realize that the astronomers (1) fail to understand or comprehend darkness, which the citizens of their world and its six suns have never experienced and (2) the fabled Stars that the Cultists predict will appear are, in fact, no different than the ones we often see in the sky.
After all, Sheerin 501, the prickly psychologist utterly confident in his predictions on how darkness will impact people’s sanity, compares darkness to infinity and eternity, inconceivable to us, too.Ironically, the near-inexplicable fear of the dark shared by the scientists eerily reflects what they perceive are the naïve and simple-minded beliefs of the Cultists.
Having read a lot of Asimov as a child, this collection was a natural and safe (in the sense of predictable) choice.Of its contents, I only really remember "Nightfall", his 1941 short story about, among other things, enlightened scientists versus the ignorant masses on a distant planet.
The reason I recall this story, however, is not its excellence per se but the coincidence that a summer later I heard Asimov himself read it aloud.The occasion was the community occupation of the Morningside Heights Public Library in Manhattan.
I know Asimov is supposed to be king, but I find him very long-winded and boring. His ideas are great but the telling is poor. Sorry, got to be honest.
A wide variety of Asimov stories, from classic to comic — with introductions adding historical and biographical context. What's not to love?
Unable to grasp the darkness and the stars the story ends with a reporter desperately grabbing for a torch but knowing that his mind is going.Green Patches: Humanity discovers a planet where all lifeforms live in harmony.
In the end, he does kill the two aliens, one by slamming a door on its neck and another with oxygen, which is poisonous to the aliens.In a Good Cause-: Two friends, Richard and Geoffrey, grow up together on Earth, which is now one of 50 inhabited planets.
Yet the alien in charge of studying Earth says that these humans, and their world, are different.
This collection of short stories gathers some of Asimov's greatest hits, ranging from "Nightfall" in 1941 to "Segregationist" in 1967.
Whether these are truly Asimov's best stories is undoubtedly a matter of subjective opinion, but they're mostly entertaining and certainly not a waste of time.The lead-off tale is the title story, a novelette really, and it's fine, but I've never fully understood the furor about it.
?") or are broadly satirical ("What is this Thing Called Love?", "The Machine that Won the War").The more interesting stories to me personally are ones that deal with human responses to changing technology, our inherent and unspoken prejudices and the intersections between the two (e.g.
This is by far the best book of short stories I've ever read.
My personal favorites: Nightfall: Likely the best of the short stories in the book, it deals with a planet that never experiences night except for every few thousand years.
Green Patches: I really liked how cleaver this story was.
Dealing with an intelligence that only wants the best for humanity.
What if-: A fun romantic short story dealing with a couple that gets to see What if things had gone differently.
I think one of the best parts about this book are the small introductions to each story.
Nə qədər yenilərini oxusan da, yaddaşından çıxmayacaq üslubu ilə özünəməxsus yer tutmuş bir yazardır.2 il əvvəl oxuduğum "Vakıf", "Robot" seriyaları ilə Əzimovun nə üçün bu qədər il keçsə də elmi- fantastik ədəbiyyat taxtında oturduğuna şübhə etməmişdim.Nightfall hekayəsi (1941) (kitabdakı adı ilə Karanlık Bir Dünya) üçün axtardığım bir kitab idi "Galaksi Şeytanları".
Amma Nightfall bir başqa idi.
Alfa günəşi batarkən, Beta günəşi çıxır və digər ulduzlarla bu tsikl davam edir.
Heç bir vaxt ulduzları görməmiş, qaranlıq gecənin necə olacağını təsəvvürlərinə gətirməyən bir mədəniyyət və bu hadisəni həyatın sonu, xaos kimi dəyərləndirən toplum düşünün.Kitabdakı digər hekayələr: "Hostess" (Galaksi Şeytanları), "C-Chute" (C.
IMPORTANT EDIT: my book says at the beginning that the anthology was called "Nightfall and other stories" in English, but the story Nightfall does not actually appear in the book I read, so I have no idea if it was published in the same form in English.I don't get the fuss about Asimov.
Why, possibly because the protagonist supports the unfair oppression of part of the population?In Asimov's defense, I read the French translation, which in parts was horrible.
Nice little collection for Asimov completists.
Being outside his most famous subject matter it's a fun slice of a less familiar side of the great man's imagination (there's even a romance in there!)These stories are by no means wall to wall brilliant, but Asimov's personal introductions to each one really put them in context both in his career and his state of mind at the time of writing.
Some oddities in there include a short story he wrote live on tv during a panel debate (he admits to cheating a little) and a story he wrote for playboy that was ultimately rejected.
I read this book a longtime ago. The five stars is for the Nightfall short story. It intertwines religious, psychological, astronomical, and archeological story lines in a plot based on a planet with multiple suns that has an eclipse one every two thousand years. The timeline of the story starts in the final few days before the eclipse. What will happen when the eclipse occurs?
genius!asimov creates a reality so different from ours on lagash (where the story takes place), a far away planet where light is available only half of the day and obscurity claims everything the other half. full of suspense, absurd and the typical creativity and particular touch of the king of sci-fi. loved it.
I can't say that I loved every story in this collection, but the title story, "Nightfall", is superb. It's also one of the classic "idea" stories; if you're at all interested in the history of science fiction, you should read it.
An amazing story, considering when it was written, establishing Asimov in my mind as one of the great science fiction authors.
One of the best books I've read in a long time. Asimov is so great, always asking questions, posing interesting situations, and imagining life in ways I never thought of.
Nightfall is a brilliant story.
Yet, in the end, it's possible that both men are heroes "In A Good Cause—".After discussing what might have happened if they'd each made different choices in life, a married couple named Norman and Livvy encounter a eccentric old man on a train who presents them with a mirror that allows then to ask "What If—" and see the results play out.
Will Norman and Livvy's love survive this test?A con-man named Gellhorn visits a mechanic named Jake who restores old automatic cars and allows them to roam free on his farm.
I recently picked up a used copy of Nightfall and Other Stories, and having never before read Asimov's work, dove in immediately.
For example:In the titular short story "Nightfall," which is the first in the book, Mr. Asimov asks the question 'what would it be like to live in a world that never experiences darkness?' In this story, we are introduced to a world in a planetary system with six suns, and through the hypothesizing and discussion of the characters we meet, we are led to believe this world is headed for absolute darkness during the event of a solar eclipse that only happens once every 2000 or so years.
Part three of "The Complete Stories, Volume 1." This section definitely had the most variation in quality of its stories.
My other favorite is probably "It's Such a Beautiful Day," very similar in style to Ray Bradbury."What If" was a cool idea that I had to tell my wife about.
Asimov comes up with excellent concepts, but it's hard to want to keep reading when he doesn't start or end some of these stories well.
Many of them start right in the middle of the action, making it very difficult to see what's going on, especially when you just read a story that is completely different.
Other reviews will be added if I read others from the collection.
This is the original story from the September 1941 issue of Astounding Science Fiction rather than the later 1990 adaptation in collaboration with Robert Silverberg.It is of its time, of course, but it still stands up as an essay on irrationality and science as a sentient species is faced with new phenomena so radically outside personal experience that they can create madness and social collapse although these phenomena do no material harm directly.It is the latter aspect that is interesting because it contains an insight about how we construct our cognition through the past habits of our perception.
I have been slowly making my way though a majority of Issac Asimov's Science Fiction works.
I personally like the Nightfall novel, featuring Robert Silverberg, which expands on the original short story more as it provides much more context on the events before and after nightfall.
Nightfall, C-Chute, Sally, StrikeBreaker, and Segregationist are my personal favorites in this collection.
There are a few good super-short stories as well which act as humorous punch lines.
I would definitely suggest this anthology of works to fans of Science Fiction, just not above some of Asimov's more well known works.
Asimov, Isaac.
Nightfall and Other Stories.
Del Rey, 1984.Nightfall was the story that put Asimov on the map as an important science fiction writer.
He was so young and modest at the time that when John Campbell paid him at a higher rate per word than usual, he thought it was a mistake and asked Campbell whether there had been a mistake.
The premise is that you have a civilization orbiting a double star system so that it never gets dark, that is, until there is a once-in-an-epoch total eclipse.
Everyone is afraid of the dark.
The story is well-plotted with good characterization and science that holds up.
Nightfall and Other Stories;Rated* Nightfall (2/5)* Green Patches (4/5)* Hostess (3/5)* Breeds There a Man...? (2/5)* C-Chute (2/5)* In A Good Cause-- (3/5)* What If--(4/5)* Sally (3/5)* Flies (3/5)* Nobody Here But-- (4/5)* It's Such a Beautiful Day (3/5)* Strikebreaker (3/5)* Insert Knob A in Hole B (2/5)* The Up-to-Date Sorcerer (2/5)* Unto the Fourth Generation (1/5)* What is This Thing Called Love? (4/5)* The Machine that Won the War (2/5)* My Son, the Physicist (3/5)* Eyes Do More Than See (4/5)* Segregationist (2/5)
