https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/168822.The_Secret_History_of_the_Lord_of_Musashi_Arrowroot
A samurai warlord with a fetish for 'woman heads' (severed heads with the noses cut off) and a complicated psychology that makes this fetish possible, the Lord of Musashi is as despicable and outrageous a character as any you'll find in French surrealism, and Tanizaki's way of telling his tale (essayistic, with fictional historical sources, footnotes, etc) gives it a delicious deadpan hilarity.
I remember an early, very Poe-esque short story about a tattoo, but aside from that The Lord of Musashi is the only work by Tanizaki to really make an impression on me.
Questi giapponesi!Nel XVI secolo, tempo di samurai e feudatari c'è un giovane guerriero.Una testa mozzata, priva di naso, tra le mani di una bellissima fanciulla che la pulisce dal sangue e la acconcia per l'esposizione come trofeo di guerra: questa immagine si fissa nella giovane mente del protagonista e diventa la sua ossessione erotica di tutta la vita.Potremo mai capire gli abissi dell'animo umano?
Antes ya me gustaba Tanizaki, pero con esta obra ha quedado claro el gran maestro de la literatura japonesa que es. Mezclando una historia de samurais con el toque perverso que caracteriza todas sus historias, con un tono de crónica histórica, logra que quieras leer más y más. Una preciosidad de novela.
قرأت للكاتب ابراهيم العريس مقال عن هذا الروائي الياباني واخترت ان أبدا بهذة الرواية اعجبني اُسلوب الكاتب وسخريته من المجتمع الياباني وكذلك وصف دقيق لعادات اليابانيين الغريبة
Pirmais gabals bija ļoti forša vēsturiski sadistiska fantāzija, tiesa, bez nobeiguma, savukārt "Arrowroot" man tik ļoti pietrūka konteksta zināšanu, ka viss vienkārši aizlidoja pāri galvai.
A Vida Secreta do Senhor de Musashi é minha coisa favorita do Tanizakijá Kuzu é um sacopeço perdão pelo vacilo
Chambers in his Introduction to The Secret History of the Lord of Musashi writes: Indeed, Tanizaki's fiction is far less autobiographical than that of most Japanese novelists.
I was going to say that this story will appeal most to scholars, scholars of ancient Chinese or Japanese historical writings in particular, but like the imaginary scholarly writings of Jorge Borges, the amusement transcends that narrow realm.
Real perverts, I fear, will be too busy actually doing perverted things to read about them, especially in a translation of an unofficial history allegedly written by a nun who, in her past, may have seen service among the Lord of Musashi's household staff.
The Secret History of the Lord of Musashi is probably best described as a novella, Arrowroot a short story.
The Secret History of the Lord Musashi tells of a Sixteenth Century Japanese lord who is sexual aroused by the image of a woman smiling at a decapitated head that has had its nose sliced off.
Tanizaki had previously translated Stendhal’s The Abbess of Castro into Japanese: this is not a work I know but apparently the narrator of that story basis his narrative on two manuscripts.
This was definitely interesting reading after "The Makioka Sisters." "Arrowroot" seems more technically interesting to me, but I enjoyed "The Secret History of the Lord of Musashi" much more. I just got into it more and felt like "Arrowroot" was always about to get started, right up until the end, though it had some beautiful moments. I enjoyed both, though. I'm just saying I preferred one over the other.
The first novel was just...weird. The second was boring.
He kills both of pages, he knows he must run for his life so he cuts of the nose of the general and takes it back to the castle with him.
She is, of course, a great, delicate beautyA man who has masochistic sexual appetites, as did the Lord of Musashi, is apt to construct fantasies in which his female partner conforms to his own perverse specifications.Exciting and mysterious events put out her right in front of the castle where his brother and his wife live.
Tanizaki là kiểu nhà văn k thể tử tế được. Tử tế phát gớm ngay
Una extraña experiencia en la niñez del persona genera una fijación en un rostro mutilado y la venganza. Al igual que el segundo relato, Tanizaki narra la búsqueda de la madre.
tags: japanese nobility
4.5
Memetik jelaiMemetik ApsintusDi dalam tangan kami ada sembilan kacangSembilan kacang, tetapi lebih dari itukami merindukan rumah orang tua kami....Jika kau merindukan akuDatang dan temukanDedaunan aroma Hutan Shinoda lambang kesedihanBuat saya, buku ini lebih menyerupai biografi, alih-alih novel sejarah seperti yang diungkapkan sang penulis.
Saat itu memang banyak cerita yang beredar seputar kehidupan seksual para pria yang disebut-sebut sebagai pahlawan dalam sejarah.Setelah memeriksa beberapa dokumen rahasia milik keluarga Kiryu, penulis memahami siapakah sosok Musashi sebenarnya.
Ia begitu tersentuh sehingga menutuskan untuk menceritakan kembali detail kehidupan seksualnya dalam wujud sebuah novel sejarah yang diberi judul The Secret History of The Lord of Musashi and ArrowrootPenulis menggambarkan banyak hal dengan terinci dan dengan gaya yang unik, cenderung eksentrik malah.
Saya mengira bahwa buku ini berisi analisis atau bahasan dari berbagai kitab mengenai sejarah Jepang masa lampau.
dan rupanya tidak seburuk itu.Sebagaimana yang terdapat pada sinopsisnya, buku ini berisi dua kisah yang berbeda.
Menurut saya, penulis hanya ingin menjadikan apa yang telah ditulisnya menjadi sebuah buku.
Itu menurut saya.Saya tidak begitu menikmati ketika membaca buku ini, tapi sesekali, pada beberapa bagian tertentu saya bisa tenggelam.
Tulisan Junichirou Tanizaki ini gabungan antara fiksi dan opini, atau mungkin juga analisisnya dari berbagai kitab dan sejarah Jepang yang saling berkaitan.
Well, ini semua hanya opini saya yang seorang penikmat fiksi.
I don't think I read Arrowroot.
I should, but the secret history is one of the most Japanese stories, and is sort of a literary version of the ero-guro genre of Manga ie something like Maruo or Saeki.
The Lord of Musashi has an erotic frisson as an impressionable youth while watching young women of the court prepare the hair of severed heads of young warriors takenin battle.
The care and fetishistic adoration afforded the heads strikes deep to the tingle root, and the young lord is never right again.
I get a frisson from this story.

Rasanya kurang tepat jikalau menyebut dua karya Tanazaki adalah Novel, karena penuturan ceritanya bersudut pandang tepat pada si Penulis, maksudnya benar-benar berorientasi pada penulis yang sedang menuliskan sebuah kisah bersejarah, sebuah eksistansi penulis, ya anda akan selalu mengijaminasikan bahwa sang Penulis seperti bercerita kepada anda.
Rasanya biar afdol biar kubahas satu-satu kedua karya yang digabung menjadi sebuah Buku setebal 305 halaman ini.1.
Si Penulis menceritakan sebuah hal tabu yang seperti diucapkannya bahwa belum pernah diungkap dalam buku sejarah jepang manapun.
Apakah kau pernah mendengar bahwa sebenarnya daimyo Musashi yang bernama Hoshimaru/Terukatsu memiliki sebuah penyakit kejiwaan ?======== bersambung =====
Secret History of the Lord of Musashi: 3.5 Odd; sex death and some things in between. Only Tanizaki could write it....then again very few others would probably want to.Arrowroot: 5 Word for word [only 57 pages] it might be the best thing I’ve read so far by Tanizaki. A subtle meditation on family, the past, art, nature, love, friendship, and how all these things interconnect in unexpected ways. It reminded me a bit of Natsume Soseki, maybe because it had two male charters walking through nature and talking about everything under the sun:)
I think I have read this before, like 20 years ago, but my memory is so bad I didn't smell a rat until I came face to face with the thing about cutting off noses . As I had forgotten everything else I kept reading.Musashi's sexual perversions are not quite as perverted (albeit gross to our sensibilities these in these days of terrorism) or as sexual as you might anticipate from the introductory chapters, but still the fetish he develops (Freudians sit forward) is explained for his peri-pubertal experience with a pretty woman and a severed, noseless head...
Bon alors, si vous avez pris ce livre certain de voir des samouraïs s'encanailler avec des jeunes éphèbes vous allez être déçus. le bandeau que l'éditeur à ajouté pour appâter le chaland est une honteuse arnaque. Pas de sexe ici ! reste que c'est un excellent petit roman qui se lit quasiment d'une traite, et que le parti pris de l'auteur (nous raconter une histoire soit disant tirée de divers témoignages et documents) est amusant et bien mené.
Reading these two novellas by Junichiro Tanizaki was, I think, subtly mysterious and uniquely narrated, that is, with typically Tanizaki-style prose and dialogs that few authors could surpass him. From his preface, we may regard this sentence, "As Wang Yang-ming said, it is easier to subdue a bandit in the mountains than to subdue the evil in your heart." (p. 9) as a tip of thought.
I found the concept of each story to be quite interesting, though the way they were written didn't quite seem to bring out the best. I would have liked them to be more fiction, rather than, what I felt, was non-fiction. There seemed to be a bit of the dryness that can be found in non-fiction. Despite that, the mythology of the stories was fun.
I think it's suffice to say that I don't understand classic Japanese literature. The first novel The Secret History of the Lord of Musashi is downright disturbing and strange, but I actually think I preferred it to Arrowroot that seemed to end just as it was getting started. Maybe I'm just not used to Eastern literature, but I really did not understand these.
The Secret History of the Lord of Musashi (and Arrowroot) by Junichiro Tanizaki. Musashi was typical Tanizaki, an arresting tale of sexual obsession: a boy, a girl, and a severed head with no nose. Arrowroot was much shorter and didn't make much of an impression on me. I am trying to read all Tanizaki's works in English and then I'll start writing a paper on one of his many themes.
Awalnya aku lbh suka novela Secret History of the Lord of Musashi, soalnya naratornya sompral.Dan arrowroot sungguh berat!!!Tapi akhirnya aku lebih suka Arrowroot. Wakakak... soalnya si narator awalnya udah sombong ke sana-sini, akhirnya dia mengaku kalah juga.Baca deh!
Lama dianggurin, baru kelar sekarang~ Dari dua cerita di buku ini, Musashi sih yang menarik. Arrowroot membingungkan, mungkin karena legenda-legenda yang disebut-sebut tak satupun yang kuketahui. :(
I loved the absurdity of The Secret History of the Lord Musashi and its manipulation of actual history into a weird story that revolves around noses. I didn't quite get Arrowroot as much. I might need to re-read the whole thing to muster up some stronger feelings about it.
