https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/840278.Eon
Review – ReduxThere should be a picture of Eon in the dictionary: right next to “Sense-of-wonder-SF”.Reading this book was like listening to a complicated symphony.
It is therefore no great surprise that the book eventually evolves (or devolves, depending on your point of view) from Hard Science Fiction to a form of Space Opera.
Then, of course, there is the grand finale, which is really something else.Like the early Uplift novels by David Brin Eon seems to be a bridge between old school and the new as far as Science Fiction is concerned.
So, if you enjoy artifacts in Science Fiction, this is mandatory reading.
Pronounced "yawn".
They're called big dumb objects because boys of all ages love them, their eyes go all glazey thinking about the size, power and size of these things and all the author has to do is make sure their alien object is really really big.
And plus, when the scientists go and explore it, or the guy in House of Leaves rides off on his bike to investigate the vastness of the House, it's like when kids in stories find doors in trees or in the back of wardrobes and they get to explore a magical kingdom.
"Of course, " she said. "It's like touching the square root of space-time. Try to enter the singularity, and you translate yourself through a distance along some spatial coordinate." "You slide along," Farley said. "Right."  I never tried touching the square root of space-time before so I cannot attest to whether it is in any way similar to trying to enter the singularity (which I have also never attempted for some reason). Still, as an avid sci-fi reader I like reading the odd bits of technoba
I never tried touching the square root of space-time before so I cannot attest to whether it is in any way similar to trying to enter the singularity (which I have also never attempted for some reason).
It’s just cool (fits my conception of cool any way).Eon is a classic sci-fi book featuring one of the most beloved tropes of the genre, the Big Dumb Object.
Explorations and adventures inside “The Stone” (the name humans give to the gigantic asteroid shaped B.D.O.) are also featured in Eon but they constitute less than half of what this book is about.
What is forgotten is that from the Cold War assumptions seen by the average, contemporary, 1984 world citizens--however blind to the evident realities of Russian/Soviet internal decay and near collapse—-the times still presented a very, very real global threat of planetary atomic annihilation.
The Cold War itself is immaterial to that threat of self-destruction.The near collapse of mankind, in the very near future, is the premise of this book by Greg Bear.
But Greg Bear has followed the more traditional science fiction of Arthur C.
Having read Blood Music, and now Eon, the impression I am getting of Greg Bear is that he has good ideas, sets them up well, but has no follow through and no idea how to end his stories.
I was convinced that Eon was going to be a really good read.
"There's a hole on this end and the other.""That's right," said NATO-official Chinese Democracy of the International Order of Space Division Center, Third Division Demilitarised Antigravity Chief, Steve Jiaolong."So that must mean Schwartzfeld's theory of antimatter propulsion holds up in two dimensions for periods of time significant enough for five of string theory's folded dimensions to balance out.""Allowing the former owners of this vessel to travel across the universe using their own feet as a vector.""Is this a novel or a fucking astrophysics lecture?" she said, exposing her breasts.
It was the awesomest thing I'd read to that point, and it remained awesome in my memory.
The plot was interesting and moved quickly.
The mysteries and plot points that remained unresolved were, to me, not so interesting anymore.
I'm okay with a slow-moving plot full of interesting characters.
Slow plot + predictable characters = Bo.Ring.However, even given the flaws and failings, I'm still glad I re-read Eon. It showed me how far my reading taste has evolved over the last 20 years.
Re-reading Eon also was a nostalgic experience, helping me connect with my younger self, the self that developed a passion for sci-fi largely because of Eon and others of Greg Bear's novels.
The big cataclysmic event that takes place while our POV characters are on the Stone is so coldly rendered that it might as well have not even have happened.I commented to a fellow bookclub member that this book is very much a product of the time it was written.
The only time I was ever invested was when the rogue intelligence was meddling in the affairs of our human protagonists.Now this book isn't all bad.
The technology is wonderfully thought out and described, the whole concept of the Stone and the Way are amazing, and Mr. Bear isn't lacking for ideas.
I need compelling characters who interact with the cool technology.
But it isn't giving the Americans a technological edge, only offers confounding mysteries and a devestating vision of their future that they seem powerless to avoid.This book, paradoxically, seemed both too long and too short.
The sheer number of characters, minor story arcs, and mind boggling concepts explored was too much for a single book.
On the other hand, more time could have been allowed to develop the many characters and their own story lines, the esoteric concepts more carefully explored if it was spread out over several books.
I generally don't like books that have maps inside; like maybe if the author was better at conveying a complicated story, then we wouldn't need a map?
Even though he spends the whole first half of this 500 page novel describing things, I still couldn't really see what this world was supposed to look like.
That said, I willingly bungled my way through, accepting that the locations didn't matter as much as the characters and plot.
I came up a bit short there, as there really isn't much of a plot, at least, not in the first 400 pages.
Eon is one of those "asteroid hurtling toward Earth" books.
There was a cluster of these types of books in the late 70's and throughout the 80's.
Eon tells the story of one such asteroid, but this one has a twist.
I really enjoyed Eon and I'm a sucker for any type of archaeological science-fiction like this.
My only complaint is that there is a Cold-War race to examine the asteroid that now feels very dated.
However, it is not a major part of the story and as a result, I was able to set this aside.
But was disappointed with things: too much of political stance to it, and too much of physical descriptions of technology and its workings.
But eventually I for one did not really like the amount of this idea that is focused upon in an SF book.
These were awesome and very-well written with good and perfect amount of descriptions, in comparison to Eon.I will eventually be reading its sequel sometime soon.
Although, I think a reader would not miss anything great (except some of its ideas) if this book is left unread, considering there is a lot more good content out there.
The Clarke tradition is to take an Idea then build a story round it; this can lead to novels that really don't have a good story or even much of a story at all, for example, Niven's Ringworld.
It's a clever story and never boring but its one weakness is that it uses several major characters in order to cover all aspects and veiwpoints of the narrative.
This splits one's sympathies so that the reader never fully invests in one character's interests - this leaves one too much outside the story, looking in.
Often inhuman in origin, investigating the BDO usually acts as the mcguffin that drives the plot.
In Eon the Earth encounters one of these BDOs in the form of The Stone, a massive asteroid that parks itself in in Earth orbit during a rather politically tense period between the NATO and soviet governments.
there are strong elements of Cold War politics throughout the story.
It’s discovered the asteroid is hollow, and as the investigation into the nature of the stone continues amazing things are discovered.I originally read this at a very young age and I found it fascinating.
Everything starts as a mysterious asteroid enters Earth orbit, and an expedition sent by the west discovers that it was built by humans of the future and somehow sent back in time unintentionally.
The portrayal of the Russians is incredibly stereotypical, and Bear never misses a chance to beat the reader over the head with the message that communism was wrong and the U.S. right during the Cold War. With the non-English characters he makes numerous mistakes.
The author writes a traditional ideogram to describe a Chinese character's shirt when the PRC has used simplified forms for fifty years.
What I suspect was going on here is that Greg Bear obvously wanted to pay homage to Arthur C.
The use of the word(s) USSR dates a sci-fi novel like a yellow stove-fridge combo dates a kitchen.
Having some of its novels also written in the 1980s, the Culture series still makes us think critically about political systems.
Upon exploration, we discover that the asteroid is hollow, has artificial gravity and is divided up into seven huge chambers, some of which contain cities.
The flounder: I mostly liked this story minus the Gorbachev factor, but at some point after the Way, it floundered.
Bear is a "hard" sci-fi writer - a lot of science, not so much in the way of character development.
Actually, Bear's characters are developed fairly decently, but his best efforts come in his mind-expanding scientific/philosophical speculation.
I honestly don't know enough math or physics to follow some of what he was talking about, but the basic ideas are pretty mind blowing, which is what good sci-fi should do.
Overall though, if you can overlook a few bad moments, deal with a book set in the future that's now the past (2005) in which the Soviet Union still exists and add a heavy dose of weird math and physics, you're in for a crazy ride.
Excellent read. The story was inventive and intriguing until the wheels came off at the end. I think Bear loves his inventions too much to create good endings...he can't seem to keep from following every thread to a conclusion at the expense of good story telling.
Instead, the more pertinent question is what does Greg Bear want to say about politics and human nature?Politics and human nature are the crux of Eon. They inform both conflicts: the tension between the Russians and the Americans, which culminates in an invasion of the Stone that goes pear-shaped faster than you can say, “an invasion of the Stone that goes pear-shaped”; and the meetings between the 21st-century humans and their alternate-future counterparts from Axis City.
Bear emphasizes that just because one belongs to a group doesn’t mean one’s own identity and choices are subsumed into that group.Human nature is an interesting one, because many of the inhabitants of Axis City wouldn’t fall under our definition of “human”.
But it perhaps isn’t the most useful response.In general, Eon attempts a great deal but doesn’t always deliver.
Kupio čim se pojavilo 1989. i bio "paf!" kako mi je bila dobra knjiga, dobro se sjećam, a sve ove ocjene starijih knjiga prenosim onako kako sam ih doživio tada, pri prvom čitanju.(ima nešto u onome kako je prvi dojam najvažniji)Izuzetno dobar SF, prepun odličnih multiverse ideja.Sjećam se i kako sam napeto čekao nastavak no nije mi bio ni blizu tako dobar.
This book represents many interesting ideas; not least of which , how (as readers) do we react to a “future vision” that is wrong?This novel is set in 2005, and it takes it a little getting used when reading this in the modern day (2014).On the whole, I usually like Greg Bear, but reading this reminded me of how limited his vision of the future is.
Their victory or failure is utterly devoid of meaning, and resulted in me disengaging about two-thirds of the way through.In short, lots of good ideas that are never fully realized.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
I recently read 'Ringworld' another object in space story.
I started off thinking this was so much better, much more readable and user friendly.
The concepts weren't as hard to grasp and although I wasn't getting the picture Bear was trying to paint all of the time, I took most of it in.
The main characters were alright and their were smart women!
Women who weren't just there to be sex objects.
I did however find my attention start to wain about halfway through.
About the time the Russians attacked and we started to meet the residents of the seventh chamber.
EON.Not really sure how I feel after reading this.
It certainly is full of some very good sci-fi ideas.
I like the idea of the infinately long linear universe, 'The Way', created by man kind's future descendents.
A whole new social structure exists, strange and complex.The book deals with how our current mankind deals with his future, and his tragic past.
The future is uncertain.The technology throughout the book is beyond understandable science, but within the acceptable level of imagination.
My problem with the book is that Greg Bear has not created any characters whom I feel any affinity to.
While asteroid starships are not uncommon, few are as beautifully conceived and realized as the Thistledown, with its haunting, abandoned cities, forests, and libraries of books from other realities -- it's a character itself.
The scene in which the Thistledown library personality discusses brain- and personality-repair options with a character who has been shot in the head is chilling and touching.
But what I love most about Eon, and most of Greg Bear's work, is that it is about HUMAN achievements, and the dreams and flaws that can drive individuals and civilizations both to greatness and destruction.

This is unbelievably awesome! What a story! I listened to the audio version which was very well done. I want to read it again in print, because a lot of my listening is done while exercising and it's easy to miss things in the book. I've purchased the complete series in ebook. My plan is to read the other books and then go back and read Eon again.
An amazingly complicated tale by "Master of Disaster" Greg Bear, that I somehow missed reading, back in the day. It's quite a ride, and I'll have to look into the sequels.....I can think of no sensible way to review the book without spoiling it, and can only suggest that, if you also missed it, and have liked other Bear books, you give it a shot. Very good for a fast-acting sense-of wonder recharge!The go-to real review is Dirk Grobbelaar's, conveniently located at the head of the pack below.
Bear cleverly sets up the East/West ideological divides while Nuclear War destroys the Earth in the background, before bringing in the people of Earth’s future.
They live in Axis City, a vast mobile habitat which roams ‘The Way’ (the corridor which stretches along the infinity of parallel Universes) and which is itself divided along ideological lines between radical Geshels and orthodox Naderites.The Naderites (who take their name from Ralph Nader, a real-life American campaigner and activist on social issues, who, from what I can gather, espouses Green Policies) embody the ideals of a combination of Green policies and advocate a rejection of over-reliance on technology (despite the extremely hi-tech lifestyle they enjoy) specifically rejecting the tendency of the Geshels to redesign their own bodies into fantastic forms.The asteroid has arrived from a future parallel universe, but one which also suffered the same nuclear exchange as ours.
