https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/900682.An_Inspector_Calls
An Inspector Calls is a memorable play from the mid-1940s, written by the popular English dramatist J.B. Priestley.
(hide spoiler)] The entire play is set in the drawing room of the Birley family, as Inspector Goole questions the family about a young working-class woman, Eva Smith, also known as Daisy Renton, who has apparently killed herself.
It has been suggested that the knowledge the Inspector has of the "fire and blood and anguish," is itself precognition; a foreshadowing of the First and Second World Wars.There is a lot of mystery and tension in this play, as well as it being a scathing description of the crumbling of middle class values.
As the play goes on Priestley brilliantly puts his audience into two positions; in one we watch the horrible family weave rope which, as the play goes on, we realize is going to hang them out to dry and we rejoice in their discomfiture but at the same time he turns the spotlight on the reader/listener/observer.......are you, he says to us, any better?
Take opportunities to make things right, it challenges, because one day you may find it is all too late and horrible things will come home to roost.
I read the play, then watched the BBC adaptation… you have to see it performed to appreciate the power packed into ninety minutes of stage-time.(view spoiler)[The Birlings (the industrialist Arthur Birling, his wife Sybil, daughter Sheila and son Eric) are having a quiet little dinner at their home to celebrate Sheila’s engagement to Gerald Croft, son of Sir George and Lady Croft.
But the Birling’s evening of woe is far from over.Inspector Goole establishes that a couple of weeks before, Eva Smith had approached Mrs. Birling in her capacity of the chairman of a charitable society.
"An Inspector Calls" has themes of responsibility, class structure, and social duty.
Set in 1912, Arthur Birling, a wealthy factory owner, is celebrating his daughter's engagement to the son of another industrialist.
The celebration is interrupted by Inspector Goole who is conducting an investigation of the suicide of a working class woman.
As the Inspector questions the family members in the dining room, it becomes obvious that each person had a connection to the young woman and had treated her badly.
Κάθε ανθρώπου ο θάνατος εμένα λιγοστεύει, γιατί εγώ είμαι δεμένος με την ανθρωπότητα.Γι'αυτό ποτέ μη στείλεις να σου πουν για ποιον έρχεται ο επιθεωρητής. Για σένα έρχεται.
نمرة ترجمة خوانین شیرازی و حروفچینی و صفحه بندی نشر افکار منفی پنجاه بود، ولی خود متن پریستلی انقدر خوبه که می تونم توصیه کنم دل قوی دارید و با ارادة آهنین از دست اندازهای متن فارسی عبور کنید و نمایشنامه ای لذت بخش و تأمل برانگیز بخونید. نشر افکار را یارای سایه انداختن بر نبوغ پریستلی نیست! اگر به متن انگلیسی دسترسی داشته باشید هم که چه بهتر. در اون صورت از نمایشنامة پیچ خطرناکDangerous cornerپریستلی هم غافل نمونید
It is in fact the simplicity of his work that creates such an appeal, because it touches more at the heart of humanity and society.The narrative of the play delves around a mysterious Inspector who interrupts the celebration of a respectable British family.
If not for the tight, clever and thought-provoking plot instead enjoy it for the very fact that it will leave you with perplexing question.
And any work which haunts the reader afterward in a pleasant way deserves to be read and enjoyed in futures to come.
Apparently its heroine is now believed to be a composite.That did rather remind me of Priestley's play.
He then confronts each member of the family in turn, showing them a picture of the girl and explaining how their actions, in various ways, have led to the tragic event.
One of them got her fired from her job, another one seduced her and left her when he found she was pregnant, and so on.It's clear from the conscience-stricken reactions that everything the Inspector says is true.
Note that the Inspector was careful to show each of us the picture in a way that didn't let anyone else see what he was doing.
مسرحية بريطانية مثيرة للاهتمام. تعرضت لها خلال اطلاعي على منهج الدراسة الإعدادية/الثانوية البريطاني وانبهرت بكمية الفائدة في فهم التاريخ وتطور المجتمع البريطاني خلال القرن الأخير من خلال هذه المسرحية. المسرحية تحكي قصة زيارة المفتش "قول" لعائلة بيرلنق الأرستقراطية ليلة احتفالهم بخطوبة ابنتهم، ليفاجئهم بخبر انتحار فتاة يتضح بعد أسئلة وتحريه أن لها علاقة بكل واحد في العائلة، وينتهي للإثبات أن لكل منهم يداً في انتحار الفتاة المنتمية إلى طبقات المجتمع المسحوقة. شاهدت هذا الإنتاج لها : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vukp3...ولربما سأبحث عن النسخ الأحدث منها ..
Just in case you couldn't tell, Priestly drops hints about it for the entire scene, including references to the titanic - which, incidentally, hasn't sunk yet - of course, Birling still knows enough detail about it to grace his family with, and a reference to the great war leaves a sort of horrendously botched attempt at exposition (trust me, I'm only just getting started).
One of the best crime detective story ever written, period.The story crafting in this play has got to be one of best ever, it had such an intense effect on me.
The thrill and ominous tension had me on the edge of the seat even though I've already seen the 2015 TV movie adaptation.
I love books and movies set in confined space and where there is a lot of dialogue between characters.
This play is set in a single room, a family is celebrating an engagement and 
This play will set the reader thinking, introspecting and retrospecting their lives.
Man I wish we’d have read this in secondary school. This was suuuuuuper good.
Review to come.
3.5 STARS
But the themes of hubris, responsibility and the place of the individual within society are critical to modern Americans, just as they were to postwar Brits, just as they were to the aristocracy at the beginning of the 20th century.Directing the recent production gave me great respect for Priestly, the humor, the sincerity, the ingeneous weaving of story lines held me, an international cast, and a pack of high school students who actually stormed into the final showing (some to watch it for a third time).
so good, best book i studied for english tbh
It was during this period that I became a confirmed socialist (or rather left leaning in my politics).When I first read the play - I remember a few classmates being confused that one family encountered the same girl, which went beyond coincidence - far too contrived.
Synopsis: The play is a three-act drama, which takes place on a single night in 1912, focusing on the prosperous middle-class Birling family, who live in a comfortable home in Brumley, "an industrial city in the north Midlands".The family is visited by a man calling himself Inspector Goole, who questions the family about the suicide of a young working-class woman, Eva Smith (also known as Daisy Renton).
Granted, I was reading it because I had nothing better to do in a cold, boring english classroom where my teacher was talking to us about something or rather.I didn't know much about the historical, social or political context of the play or the era it was set in but the information I did know was enough to understand the play because it was quite simple and didn't go into much detail about these things.
11/3/16: Although I kind of saw the ending coming, I really enjoyed this play and am not only looking forward to studying it this year, but reading more plays in the future.
They're so easy to read and pretty insightful, usually.15/4/16: was 5 stars, but i tweaked it bc i was thinking about it and i realized how bad the ending was.
but i was thinking mORE about the ending and i came to the conclusion that the inspector was some kind of [insert word here] that was trying to change the characters & make them see the consequences of what they've done.
like, basically, eva hasn't died yet when he arrives.
The author allows himself, from his advantage point in the future, to look back upon a past time where the people concerned were living on the brink of disaster and didn't know it.
The inspector disagrees.ESPAÑOL: Esta es la séptima vez que leo o veo esta magnífica obra, una de mis nueve obras de teatro moderno preferidas.
Pero el tema principal es otro: ¿Somos responsables de lo que les pase a los demás?
Algunos de los personajes dicen que cada uno debe cuidar de sí mismos.
It does its job.
The play starts off with a plan that the audience can immediately see the outcome of; switching between the different family members until the story of Eva Smith is slowly pieced together.
Where the play does its best is where the dramatic irony kicks in strongly, and there's definitely a lot of conflict that the audience can tap into.
However, where it falls short is at the point where it becomes too 'preachy' on the subject of socialism.
There are a lot of repeated beats, and many reminders of what happened to Eva and whether or not they should be responsible.
Boom! MIND BLOWN!!! Seriously it's just so good how it gets revealed in the end.
I remember reading this when I was 10.(during my Sherlock Holmes phase.)I already knew the ending but it was still a fun trip down memory lane.
Loved it! The ending was especially hilarious! Who WAS that inspector?!
I really enjoyed this one! full review to come
A brilliant, amazing, beautiful and absolutely fantastic ending. Wonderful.
J.B preistly is a god damn hero
Enjoyable but a tad predictable! Anyone else agree that the inspector might be a representation of god?
4.5/5 starsI enjoyed this play very much.It's well-written, easy and quick to read, the characters and the story are relatable and the morale (just as morales are supposed to be) makes you think. I just overall loved this story.
Interesting play. Now I'm going to have to find a dramatization on YouTube or wherever.
