https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12137.Buried_Child
“You can't force a thing to grow. You can't interfere with it. It's all hidden. It's all unseen. You just gotta wait til it pops up out of the ground. Tiny little shoot. Tiny little white shoot. All hairy and fragile. Strong enough. Strong enough to break the earth even. It's a miracle.” Sam Shepard, Buried Child I recently reread this for the first time in many years. I had assigned it to some of my acting students for a script analysis class, and wanted to revisit it. Revisiting it as an adul
It's a miracle.” Sam Shepard, Buried Child
It touched a nerve in me that in my youth was not yet exposed.Buried Child is a darkly comic portrait of a family brought to its knees by incest, betrayal, adultery, and murder.
None of these characters escapes Shepard’s grotesque world unscathed.Clever and witty, Shepard crafts a sharp dissection of heritage, family; we learn in the most horrific way “the past is passed” is far from the truth.
Nearly 40 years later, Shepard’s tale is as disturbingly relevant to all those who feel confined by the constraints and expectations of family.In the end we left wondering who is the buried child?
First produced at the Magic Theatre in San Francisco on June 27, 1978 and in New York City at the Theatre for the New City later that year, an off-Broadway production in 2016 featured Ed Harris in the role of Dodge, an old timer withering away on a sofa while his hen pecking wife Halie (played by Harris' wife Amy Madigan in that production) tries to keep a secret from ripping what remains of the family apart when they receive a surprise visitor.
Reader: "Book?
What're ya doing here?"Reader: "Oh, stop fooling around already."Book: "You're the one who's fooling.
What's it to you?"Reader: "I'm your reader, that's what it's to me."Book: "Reader?
I ain't got no reader."Reader: "You're a book.
It promised to buy me booze!"Reader: "Book, you can't drink!"Book: "Course I can drink!
Drowned it in my own pages, I tell ya!"Reader: "Well, I'm obviously still alive, aren't I?"Book: "Alive?
Who are you?"Reader: "Oh, fuck it..." *shakes head and trots off of stage*Book: "Booze!
There's my booze!" *takes up a bottle hidden under the couch and drinks it* *drowns*(Curtain)
.موضوع نمایشنامه راجع به زندگی آمریکایی و یک خانواده از هم پاشیده سو نویسنده خیلی خوب فضای این خانواده و مشکلاتشون و سردرگمی شخصیت ها رو ترسیم کرده
I've heard about this play a while ago when a friend went to watch it and left the theatre perplexed about it.
Buried Child is a dark and twisted play which talks about adultery, betrayal, murder and even incest.
Deeper than this subjects, the dysfunctional family has a secret buried, one which will soon be revealed after so much plough of the arid terrain in which it was buried.
An incredible play for anyone who wants to be shocked by this family dysfunctionality and secrets.
Tiny little shoot.
Tiny little white shoot.
Strong enough.
Strong enough to break the earth even.
December of Drama 2015, day fifteen"The other night we went to see Sam's play,(Doin' the things that we want to)It was very physical.
It held you to the stage.(Doin' the things that he wants to)"--Doin' the Things that We Want to, by Lou ReedAlright, so maybe I will start using relevant lyrics to open my reviews.
I'm pretty sure that song is referring to a different Sam Shepard play but it nevertheless applies to this one.
Buried Child is poetic and surprising, brutal and uncompromising.
Gary Sinise apparently directed a revival and it's no surprise that he was drawn to it.
I have to say- this play is MESSED up. This play shows the destruction of a family from the inside out, and I was relieved when I finished it, not because it was bad, but because I couldn't wait to get out of these characters' minds.

I have read this play about seven or eight times. I used this play for my final script analysis project in college and kept finding more and more bizarre qualities hidden in the text each time I read it. I am a huge fan of dark plays with twisted characters.
پرده ی اخر رو به علت هیجانی که توش داشت بیشتر پسندیدم و پرده ی اول به نظرم خیلی حالت معرفی شخصیت و این ها داشت و فقط آخرش اون بحران مورد نظر رو ایجاد می کنه بنابراین صفحات اولیه اش به نظرم اضافه بود چون می تونست این ویژگی شخصیت ها رو بعدا هم بیان کنه.
This is some scary, crazy, awesome sh*t.
Dark, dated, but probably fun for actors to act in.
Hyper-Reality and Fragmentation of Identity: An application of Baudrillard’s theories to The Buried ChildWe live in a world which signs no longer refer to something, but to themselves.
Baudrillard approaches the issue of identity with his theory the fragmentation of identity.
In fact, in the hyper-real world of simulation when no duality of Me/Other is possible, signs and images decide the identity of the Me. Subjects appropriate simulated identities by signs.
In the Buried Child, identity is what the characters invent for themselves; Identity is a sign in their hyper-real world which accidentally achieves meaning for them.
I have heard (and feel like I will continue to hear) great things about this play.
It was really only years later after having the opportunity to forget a lot of the extra crap that I realized the play is really simple.
There's a mentally-disabled guy, and a dead child in the family has pretty much ruined his slim chance at normalcy.I understand that a lot of things can be left to your own imagination about if they were hallucinations, dreams or perhaps just a warped timeline.
Often tactics like this will lead to a better, more interesting story.
Didn't really like it.
Buried Child is more about the form than about what it's trying to say - although I'm not sure if it tries to say nothing at all.
That's the problem with expressionism and absurdism: the art piece in itself is the center of everything and in Buried Child's case, the mystery and illogicality of it all takes the attension of an audience or a reader and the characters and the theme of the play - or an art piece - goes without notice.
These kinds of plays makes me feel like it is all about the play, the art when I feel it most certainly should not be.
Strange reading experience.By the end of Act One I was really into this play and impressed with Shepard's writing (I'd never read one of his plays or stories).
Lots of tension.But the play -- which won the Pulitzer, go figure -- just becomes stranger and stranger with no payoff, in my mind.
One of my pet peeves when it comes to plays is when all the characters are screaming at each other, drinking, saying whacky things.
Seems like almost every sentence ends with an exclamation point.
But this play didn't move me in the least.
I had zero connection to any character.
It's true of almost any play, or work of art, that what happens works on more than one level but for me, here, it is distracting.
The myth making being challenged is true and real while the reality the characters are working through is also painful.
However instances where they act like symbolic characters rather than humans undercuts all the work done to define them while the need to ground them in naturalistic soil pins the wings of the absurd.It's a thin line and more personal than anything, this wavering balance of emotional and intellectual engagement.
This book was one of may books read in my continuing journey as an English Literature major.
I think this play was a dark, riveting tale that used ambiguous character development, limited setting and stage perception, and a non-traditional plot to show-case what happens to a typical American family when they don't focus on what really matters in life: the people we love, the things money can't buy, and the things that we often cannot grasp, but are real all the same.
It is a weird, disturbing tale, with a morbidly touching ending, and I think it is a brilliant read.
Ever came home after a few years, get that unsettling feeling that maybe, just maybe, you've walked into someone else's purgatory, where people are full of hate and mean drunks and being eaten alive by old secrets, and think: "well let's see if there's corn outside"?
Painfully beautiful, beautifully realistic, realistically awkward, Shepard writes regular American family life like it's a surrealistic painting. With classic symbolism, this dysfunctional family passes from one generation to the next in a few strange moments.
Strange strange strange. But I liked it.
Dark, poignant (if you're from the south and have creepy family I suppose), and more Shepard than a Mass Effect marathon.
Be warned -- Samuel French acting edition spoils the ending on the back!
It's like Everybody Loves Raymond if there was a long lost third brother who's never been mentioned before, and he's just dropped in unexpectedly!
Such a terrible nightmare, but still brilliant.ویژگی کار سام شپارد آن است که از موضوعی ساده و دم پا افتاده، با گفتگوهایی آسان، روایتی شگفت آور حکایت می کند.
I understood that this family had some secrets and tragedy, and that they were a bit nuts from it.
My final understanding of what he was trying to say is that when people deny the sins that they have done it creates mental problems.
Perhaps he was saying something about mid-western families, in that many of them act as though not talking about tragedy will help to heal it.
Younger people were getting more into psychology and exploring the idea that even the darkest of secrets needed to be discussed in order to heal.
Might be his plays just aren't my thing.
It's dark and twisted, everyone keeps saying, and that's true.
But other than some nervous chuckles and some mild a-ha moments as things are revealed/hinted at, I don't get much out of it.
Near the beginning the exposition of Halie sort of talking to herself struck me as a bit clumsy.
(Dare I say that of a Pulitzer winner?) My ear is a bit sensitive to that sort of dialogue.
I got distracted wondering how an amputee character manages to leave the couch that hides the actor's leg to crawl after his prosthesis.
Easily distracted am I.
This play was very surreal and definitely had an American Gothic feel to it. I didn't always understand what exactly everything meant, but I really enjoyed the general feelings evoked while reading.
HELP! I didn't understand the play at all.
I would love to see this staged with great actors. I felt it read a bit awkward, stilted, but I know it was nominated for five Tonys and won the Pulitzer so it must be quite moving to see it live.
