https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11861062-starters
Callie is forced to make some tough decisions when an offer to rent her young body to an elderly person for a short time comes across the table.
The world that Lissa Price builds is terrible but very believable; while not entirely unique (which is pretty impossible at this point), she gave a brand-new spin in her creation of this dystopian society.And the Old Man. There are several mysteries that I have still lingering in my mind and that will haunt me until December.Overall, a smashing debut in a genre that is very difficult to break into.
However, the population in this book (before the war) lived, on average, to the age of 150 (in some instances up to age 200).
Wasn’t this all about her brother and NOT fighting evil (aka Prime Destination)Callie....”If she had a black eye or a broken nose, then maybe the body bank people wouldn’t pick her”.
And why would Blake ever go to an abandoned warehouse after just meeting Callie?Why would Callie’s brother have a “rare lung disease” while people can be fixed, and healed enough to live to 200?OverallI had a super difficult time writing this review just because I really didn’t enjoy the story.
I think it’s a strong idea and ripe for ethical discussion, in this case examined through the lens of a post-apocalyptic/dystopian world where the fallout from biological (I assume) warfare has rendered life precious, and youth a commodity.
The story is told from the viewpoint of Callie, fending for herself and her younger brother on the streets, who against her better judgement accepts a contract with Prime Destinations to rent out her body, in order for the rich and old to briefly experience virtual youth.
My main issue with Starters, however, is that the fact that too many problems and solutions in the plot feel convenient.
A list of things I would do if I were in someone else’s body:*Moon nunneries*Spend a day doing nekkid performance art in illegal locales*Yell at people randomly that they can’t handle the truth*Trick various people into skinny dipping with people and then steal their clothes.*Randomly strip on trams and use the pole to danceA list of things old people would apparently do in my body:*Drink/Club*Sports*Sex*Bungee JumpingIf anything is representative of the generation gap – I think that is.See Dad,
This is how we have fun!This is not a bad novel – but nor is it a per­fect one.Price has strengths, which make this book an enjoy­able read, but she also has marked weak­nesses.
It is those weak­nesses, unchecked, that ruin an oth­er­wise enjoy­able tale.The story, a futur­is­tic dystopian Body Snatch­ers of sorts, is a fast paced, thrilling read.
What­ever spark Price wanted us to feel, just wasn’t there for me.Per­haps the biggest fac­tor that crip­pled the novel for me was in the M.
Inside this flashy cover, Lissa Price has written a fun, original dystopian that reminded me a bit of The Host (one of my favorite books ever), and even though the world itself could use more details, the story is highly entertaining.After a war that only left children and seniors alive, Callie, orphaned, has decided to donate her body for a few weeks so she can get enough money to save her brother.
With the amount I've read, I'm surprised how dystopians keep being so interesting as well as original.
This was pretty entertaining, if a bit sketchy on some of the details. Still, there's a very interesting twist at the end that I didn't see coming! And I will definitely be reading the sequel. Review to come.
But after reading just a few pages, I knew I would absolutely love Starters.In a genre that has become so popular in the last couple of years, it's only natural that some topics and tropes will be recycled and "transformed", but in the end we have the same of everything.
If you're a fan of the dystopia genre and are looking for a compelling, original and action-packed read, Lissa Price's impressive debut is the book for you.
This book starts with a bang as Callie enters the posh, beautiful lobby of Prime Destinations to find out how much money she can get for renting her body.
Yep, I did just say 'renting her body.' Callie's parents are dead and her little brother is ill, partly from living in such poor conditions with a lack of adequate food and water and she finds out from Prime destinations that just one month of her life could change their lives forever.
The only way for an unclaimed teen to earn some money is to rent their body for a month or more to an Elder through a company named Prime Destinations.
Wiping out the entire population between twenty and sixty is, admittedly, a bold move, but if an outbreak were to happen, something similar to the described Spore Wars, we probably would inoculate children and old people first.
The process of renting out teenage bodies to old people reminded me a little of that horrible movie Surrogates with Bruce Willis and that blonde actress whose name I always forget.
really, really sick, and the only way to save him was go on into Prime Destinations and rent yourself out to a stranger?That's the basic premise behind Lissa Price's fantastic YA thriller, STARTERS.
When a recent war went biological, there was only enough serum to vaccinate the old and the young...The book jumps straight into the thick of things, the first scene taking us straight to the uber-creepy Prime Destinations, where the likeable main character, Callie, is understandably skeeeeeeeved, talking to the old "enders", who, in there power and hunger and basic chilliness, come off as something like vampires.
Starters July 7thThis book was... amazing! I haven't given 5 stars in quite some time. I loved how the author wrote the voices of the characters. I really liked that she wasn’t annoying and that she had something to fight for. But its’ really weird that she had to sell herself to an Ender. And that’s where the story begins. Callie and her brother live on the streets ever since the Spores wiped out every adult. The children and elderly were vaccinate, since they were the most vulnerable but ended up surviving because of that.
Die Rezension: https://youtu.be/Jpbu1DX6CEc
I just read the chapter sampler and am completely engaged in the story.
I'm a teacher, and I can see this book being used in certain courses to discuss, for example, the long-range consequences of biological warfare, the differing perspectives of young people versus the very old, the consequences of forgetting what it's like to be young, how far one will go to attain beauty (or money), our changing views of family and of what one considers home, and the ultimate price we pay for technology.
“First Sara, then Redmond. Who else was going to suffer because of me before this was over?” 3 1/2 stars I've complained a lot about dystopian books, but I feel like my complaints are understandable. It's an overpopulated genre with most books riding off of The Hunger Games and eventually, they all start to sound the same. With each new dystopian novel, they feel more and more like copies of each other and really, can we just not have another special girl single handedly taking on an evil gover
At first she feels a bit like Cinderella, a poor girl trying on beautiful dresses, going to parties, meeting cute boys, and eating delicious food… But then the dazzling life of the rich begins to fade as Callie uncovers dangerous secrets and a deadly plan.This book checked off nearly everything I look for in a dystopian: a ton of action, a compelling plot, a vigorous page turning quality, and a likable, tough main character.
It wasn't a life changing book, but I found it to be an enjoyable, good ol' fashioned dystopian.
Straight up, you can’t trust the elderly, this is an important life lesson I learned from Lissa Price’s exciting debut Starters. Like, I hate to compare books, but I feel like Starters might be 2012′s Divergent. The two books aren’t alike plot wise, but they both have that up all night quality. I mean, I read Starters mostly during the week and was ITCHING to get out of work so I could read more of it.Read the rest of my review here
Really looking forward to this book. Think it will be a real page turner!!A Very Striking Book Cover!!Update- Was not disappointed after having read this terrific novel. Kept me captivated from start to finish and was difficult to put down. Full of interesting twists and turns with a very surprising ending that has me highly anticipating Enders, the second book in the series. Definitely recommended!!
You will meet Callie, a young girl whose parents are dead, and her 7-yr.-old brother, Tyler, is very sick.
Her only hope to get money is to rent her body out to old people to use.
Can't wait for the second book to come out in December!(Gerard's review)Starters by Lissa Price takes place in the future but isn't too far out that it is unbelievable.
Callie decides to rent out her body for a big sum of money that would be enough to provide a home for her and her little brother who is also sickly.
I’m not even sure if this review can justify this amazing story of Starters.
Starters is a story you really don’t read every day.
I’ve read countless books that had the worst future ever thought.
Then Lissa Price walked in and she just proved me wrong.Callie’s character is one of the best that happened to this story.
She is a character that will stay in your mind long after you read this book.
I demand for the second novel now especially after I read the last three pages that left me hanging and wanting for more.For fans of The Hunger Games and Divergent, get Starters and get started now!
You don’t get to meet a book like this!
Right away on the first page, there were so many intriguing information that kept me turning the pages.
And the stark contrast between Prime Destinations and where Callie lives.
Callie's care for her brother Tyler, made me think about the "Graves of the Fireflies" -- an amazing film by Hayao Miyazaki, where the older brother desperately tries to take care of his little sister who became very ill during World War II.
Callie's physical transformation at Prime Destinations is amazing.
I kept looking at the front cover, too, because the two different colors of her eyes are so intriguing.
The enders want to hold on to power and money.
But there is one thing that the starters have that the enders want but can't have: youth.
For a time, the ender gets to live inside the starter's mind and body.
Despite distrusting Prime Destinations, Callie chooses to enter a contract.
The external conflict (survival) and the internal conflict (Callie's decision to be rented) are powerful.
But what really makes Starters work is the philosophical conflict that echoes our own world.
Most of us are like Callie, just struggling to survive and trying to hold on to the illusion of free will.
Un minuto de silencio por lo que pudo ser y no fue.
Now I have to wait, for what is going to seem like forever, until I can read ENDERS and find out what happens after all those cliff hangers?
*growls at Lissa Price* Why do I love this book?
Starters has amazing characters, a very unique setting and a super exciting plot.
These books have mastered the art of story telling--they are the complete package.
STARTERS is a complete and fulfilling book and it's teasers are not gratuitous--they are exciting and well thought out.
Congrats, Lissa--I'm expecting great things from you and if you ever want to let me peek at ENDERS--I'm available.
What a great YA SciFi novel! I really like the idea of the story, and the book was very well-written. Will be reading Enders soon, realy curious to that!I've read this in one day, a whole lazy Sunday. Lovely, this is what Sundays are supposed to be made of :)
One day there will be fewer young people to support the ever-increasing number of elderly citizens, and here we can see how things could change in their favour.Starters are under 19 years of age, those just starting out in life and Enders are the elderly.
Enders don’t care about Starters unless they’re family.
They live to 200 years old and appear to have no health problems due to advances in medicine, odd because not all Enders are rich and the last time I checked medical care wasn’t free in America so how come none of them appear hampered by age.
Some of the characters thoughts or actions did not make sense.
This book is really different and for some reason, it is almost similar to the Host.
Callie, her brother Tyler, and her friend Micheal have to find a way to survive on the streets.
The Prime Destinations pay teens a great deal of money so Callie had no choice but to rent her body.
The reason I had mixed feelings about this book was because of the decisions Callie made.
Tyler was the only character I was attached to but he wasn't in the book that much either.
Wow! So loved the premise of this book! Creepy and fantastic. My favorite part was the end when she learned...Ha you thought I was gonna share a spoiler. Nope. But still loved the end! Who knew grandmas and grandpas could be so evil! There was some really cool forward thinking technology in here. If you didn't notice it skim through it again because it was really brilliant.
Auch nicht, dass es so eine innovative Idee enthält und, dass es uns eine so realistische Zukunftsversion präsentiert.Die Idee, dass nur noch junge und alte Menschen (Starters und Enders) existieren, weil diese die ersten waren, die geimpft worden sind, finde ich persönlich sehr interessant, denn das ist ja tatsächlich eine Vorgehensweise, die existiert, dass die giftigen Sporen dann all die Menschen, die weder alt noch jung waren, getötet hat, weil die Zeit nicht reichte auch diese zu impfen, führt zu der Welt in der Callie lebt.
Ich kann auch noch immer kaum glauben, dass Lissa Price es tatsächlich geschafft hat, die Idee der "Body Bank", also dass sich die Enders einen Körper von den Starters für jede Menge Geld leihen können, realistisch rüberzubringen.
Ich finde auch, dass die Autorin das Thema echt gut umgesetzt und erläutert hat, sodass man wirklich das Gefühl hatte, sowas könne in Zukunft wirklich möglich sein.
Es ist ja wirklich so, dass vor allem junge und alte Menschen anfälliger sind für Infektionskrankheiten, daher konnte ich die Reihenfolge der Impfungen gut nachvollziehen.
Ein bisschen merkwürdig finde ich jedoch, dass laut Buch nur Erwachsene von 30-50 (oder war es 60?) den Sporen zum Opfer gefallen sind.
Können ja nicht alle Enders stinkreich und griesgrämig sein?Callie hat mir als Charakter ganz gut gefallen.
Summary Starters  by Lissa Price is an excitingly addictive story! After the Spore War that wiped out everyone not vaccinated (everyone ages 20-60), Callie Woodland, a sixteen-year-old unclaimed orphan, is living in an abandoned office building with her younger brother, Tyler. Life is terrible--running from renegades who would kill her just for a cookie, living in a cold, abandoned office building with no clean water, heat, or food, and hiding from marshals that want to institutionalize them and
Since her brother is sick, she desperately needs money...so she "donates" her body to a place called Prime Destinations, which is run by an unknown figure known as The Old Man. At Prime, elders (a.k.a. Enders) rent teens' (a.k.a. Starters) bodies!
They do that by inserting a chip into the Starters' heads, and each Ender has control over the teenage body that they rent!
Can Callie stop the Enders?About the AuthorLissa Price is a newcomer who is obviously talented to write such a good book!
Lissa Price is now officially one of my favorite authors and I can't wait to read more books by her.
This book is amazing! I read it in one sitting through the noise of screaming children playing, so you know it had to be good to keep me from being distracted and into the story! ^_^I really loved every character in the book. I loved the Enders that Callie "befriends" as "Helena". I loved Blake. (view spoiler)[ omg, at the end! I was like NOOOOOOOOO no no no! and then I was like "Awe yes yes yes!" (hide spoiler)] Blake is a 'real teen' that Callie befriends while she is still in her rental perio
I loved the Enders that Callie "befriends" as "Helena".
and then I was like "Awe yes yes yes!"  (hide spoiler)] Blake is a 'real teen' that Callie befriends while she is still in her rental period, so she is supposing to be Helena's "niece".
But I loved their characters (view spoiler)[ and when Callie was sitting there thinking how familiar that gesture was, I was scrambling my brain like "who?!?
I just read that!" (hide spoiler)]Although, at one point towards the end of the book I could sort of guess what was happening, but then until it was actually said I wasn't ever sure.
