https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30671.The_Sleepwalkers
It isn't as well-known as it should be that the Copernican universe used the same machinery as the Ptolemaic one - intricate arrangements of revolving spheres - but Copernicus's argument was that the arrangement of spheres was simpler if you let the Earth rotate and go round the Sun. It took a while for people to notice Copernicus's work, but when they did the effect was dramatic.The longest section in the book is about Kepler, clearly Koestler's favorite.
Introduction, by John GrayPreface (1968)Introduction (1959), by Herbert Butterfield--The Sleepwalkers: A History of Man's Changing Vision of the UniverseAcknowledgementsSelected BibliographyNotesIndex
This is a wonderfully readable and interesting account of the history of astronomy, and to some extent cosmology, up to and including Newton.
Of particular interest are the quite detailed biographical sections of Copernicus, Tycho Brahe, and Kepler.I'm lengthening this review today by giving the table of contents.
This much of the book consumes over 500 pages.
The book has probably been in print ever since it was published in 1959.Equations?
Very readable for anyone with an interest..
It's in V for Vendetta, it's everywhere in the kind of books I enjoy reading.
Plus, on the face of it, it's a book I really should enjoy.
And it is full of the best of stuff.Look: there are different ways of getting into a book.
Very often, especially with fiction, it is almost the only way.
But this is not fiction and in this case I am not so much following Koestler's flow as I am skipping from current to current in this little bit of his head and everywhere I swim I meet the biggest most awesome sharks and the most colourful fish.
This is the kind of book writers should read.
Thank you, Koestler.
Koestler brings a true passion to his cosmographical history, detailing man's theorizations and beliefs on the nature of the universe from ancient Mesopotamia through to the enforced recantation by Galileo of his heliocentric confirmations and the synthesis of his predecessor's pioneering work by Newton to establish the basis of modern science.
Kepler's cheerful and unflagging efforts - in the face of poverty, disease, betrayal, stubbornness, blind alleys, mistakes, and tragedy - to establish a logical and mathematical basis for the planet's enigmatic orbits; his capacity for both sarcastic antagonization and affectionate loyalty in his dealings with others; his creative and virile genius in doing much of the leg work necessary for Galileo's success; in short, his so very human failings and virtues make his story the epitomy of the creative potential of the inspired human spirit.
Yet the decisions coming out of free will can be heavily influenced by larger forces: "the cosmology of a given age is not the result of a unilinear, 'scientific' development, but rather the most striking, imaginative symbol of its mentality - the projection of its conflict, prejudices, and specific ways of double-think on to the graceful sky." (106)This larger environmental pressure on thought is sometimes shaken off by individuals who tap into an element of universal truth and carry it along the path towards a "logical conclusion".
For a long time he clung unto the principles of Aristotle, who was partly responsible for the dark ages in cosmology, and didn't want to alter his views and theory.Isaac Newton is mentioned only briefly - certainly compared to the more detailed accounts about Corpernicus, Kepler, and Galileo - and mainly his findings and further explorations are discussed.
And so you'll read how he took elements from Kepler and from Galileo, and improved their examinations.In the Epilogue, Koestler throws in a large chunk of physics and some philosophy, but also looks back at the evolution of cosmology.
Great on Kepler and the Galileo trial, far too light on ancients and Newton.
Galileo's opponents were not the nitwits we believed them to be.
But ancient science was a much more interesting phenomenon than Koestler realizes.
He mouths the same old criticisms of Plato and Aristotle, essentially blaming them for the beliefs of their later followers.
In particular, the role of Plato's Academy and Aristotle's Lyceum in framing the deductive structure of mathematics and the axiomatic system is ignored.
Also the Alexandrian museum was started by members of the Lyceum.
The ecstatic contemplation of geometrical forms and mathematical laws is therefore the most effective means of purging the soul of earthly passion, and the principal link between man and divinity.- From the end of the sixth century B.C. onward, the idea that the earth was a sphere, freely floating in air, made steady head way.
They knew that the orbits, periods and velocities of the five planets were connected with, and dependent on, the sun – yet in the system of the universe which they bequeathed to the world, they managed to ignore completely this all important fact.-The curse of "spherism" upon man's vision of the universe lasted for two thousand years.
I would devide my life to before and after reading Koestler.
Reading Koestler for the first time, just released, Koestler changed me to a totally different person.
The best description of the time is when he says; The sun of the age of reason was setting down.
Arrow in the Blue together with The Invisible Writing are kind of autobiography of first 35 years of Koestler's life.
این اثر کستلر با عنوان “خوابگردها" توسط منوچهر روحانی ترجمه شده.
من چاپ دوم آن را دیده ام که در 1361 منتشر شده است.
Read this for a graduate course in rationalism. I was particularly impressed by the section dedicated to Kepler, who, I am reminded, essentially wrote the first piece of science fiction waaaay back when. In the middle of the all the gory religious persecution of medieval Europe, a guy figured out that the planets move in an elliptical, as opposed to a circular, orbit around the sun. Koestler takes the reader through the stages of Kepler's thinking, with a wink and a nod to the intuitions that would, at times, lift him above that thinking. Highly recommended.
An extremely readable account of the history of some key developments in human understanding of the universe. This is a book I read a long time ago, but which has stayed vividly in my memory.
Koestler included an often ignored line of thought; how religion influenced early understanding of the universe.
In addition to this, in the first half Koestler traced the views of the universe from the ancient world, the middle ages through the Ionian school up until the age of Newton.The second half,which makes up the bulk of the book, will depend on your tastes.
To further his thesis on which the book draws its title from, the idea of the early universe 'fathers' making cancelling errors which somehow resulted into the right thing, Koestler told us about their lives and in great detail.
Amazing book which chronicles the way that humans have viewed the universe in which they reside, since the Ancient Greeks.
It deals with the works of Copernicus, Tycho de Brahe, Kepler, and Galileo in depth.
It ends with Newton and an analysis of the new synthesis that occurred with his works.
It details the intellectual, political, and religious climates respective to each of them.
The manner in which they reached their conclusions is very detailed, especially Kepler's methods of inquiry.
The book ends with a modern epilogue which briefly details the state of science and religion today.
I think I read 2 of Koestler's bks.
This must've been one of them b/c I remember the subject matter but I reckon it's possible that there's another Koestler bk w/ a long section on Kepler (as this one has).
Alas, this is the only bk I've read in my astronomy section.
Obviously, I 'need' to catch up on the subject!
Maybe it was too drily scientific for me.
Maybe I just didn't get it.
In retrospect it seems like a fascinating subject.
I'd forgotten how much I liked this book...it's old-fashioned criticism at its best, intensely readable and deeply humanist. While I don't think it's a "provocative" book any more (as Sir Bernard Lovell claimed 40 years ago), it's a wonderful re-tangling of the humanities and sciences and a great way to get a quick understanding of how the major scientific discoveries of the last few millennia unfolded as well as a sense for the scientists and movements that made them.
A series of well researched essays on Copernicus, Kepler, and Galileo, and how they stumbled, or in Koestler's words - sleepwalked, their way through their eponymous works and discoveries.Thoroughly researched, incredibly well written, and Koestler's insights into these men's lives seems uncannily spot on.
He wasn't exactly flattered by Copernicus or Galileo, and though he clearly respected Kepler's genius, he also portrayed him as a distracted genius who either by accident or through distraction ignored his greatest laws of astronomy.Copernicus was a boring prefect of the Catholic hierarchy.
And describing Newton's theories on gravity - "one is able to realize the enormous courage - or sleepwalker's assurance - that was needed to use it as the basic concept of cosmology." Koestler insists that Galileo didn't get in trouble for his heliocentric theory but partly for being an asshole for decades and also for insisting that the earth moves (although it's hard to envision a heliocentric model where the earth sits still).
Galileo's theory of tides was based on a star parallax that was obviously wrong even at the time he was proposing it and caused all this trouble, although Kepler had already proposed the correct theory for tides.
Years following one approach, not comfortable with the results, then another major approach, then another, fruitlessly trying to solve the puzzle, which he finally did in the formulation of Kepler's 3 laws of planetary motion!!Then about Galileo, in this I side with the Roman Catholic Church at the time.
(That he was stripped naked, hung upside down and burned was not necessarily because of this viewpoint but other religious opinions.) However Galileo proclaimed that the heliocentric model was the correct one, which the Church said it was alright to formulate that hypothesis, but he could not say that it was "the" correct one, unless he could prove it!
Más allá de todo lo dicho en otras reseñas acerca del contenido de este libro, la historia de la cosmología que presenta Koestler en Los Sonámbulos, es divulgativa en cuanto a que nos invita a recorrer los pasajes y rutas creativas que han recorrido los creadores de la cosmología moderna para comprender la génesis del conocimiento actual. Es también de carácter filosófico y reflexivo, puesto que muestra la dualidad en el pensamiento —científico y espiritual— que poseían los adalides de la revolución del conocimiento científico, destacando la importancia de esta dupla y analizando las consecuencias actuales del divorcio de estas.
The Epilogue is prescient in its vision of 21st century mans dilemma, blind obsession with quantitative data with no recourse to subjective senses have lead to the ends always justifying the means, where the ends are limited and the means unlimited.
Brilliant. Amazing context (historic, scientific, religious, moral, but above all - human) given to the subject of how the universe works. The editorial asides didn't distract me in the least, in fact I found them quite refreshing. Highest recommendation!
حداقل در زبان فارسی از این بهتر نمیتوانید کتابی پیدا کنید که به شیوایی و زیبایی شما را با فرآیند تکامل تاریخی علم آشنا کند...
En español salió con el nombre de Kepler
Classic history of ideas
Koestler's influential view of Kepler as an intuitive, effusive mystic "sleepwalking" his way toward universal truths isn't the standard view of modern Kepler scholars and may be based on a naive reading of the Astronomia Nova that ignores Kepler's rhetorical framing of his discoveries, as well as the discrepancies between Kepler's style in his published books and his often ironic and practical personal correspondence.Koestler's anti-Galileo arguments also tend to be a bit blunt and partisan.
Koestler's findings that I found notable included:Astronomy began simply as sky-geometry, it was not until Kepler that someone attempted to apportion a causality to the movements.Arstotle and Plato's ideas about the immutability of the heavens (and the variability, and hence inferiority, of the sub-lunar region), the chain of being down from God to the lowest particle of dirt, with everyone and everything having a place, and that the motion of heavenly bodies is circular and with uniform speed, all become completely accepted into mainstream thought and religion, and hence were dogma.
THE SLEEPWALKERSBY ARTHUR KOESTLER INTRODUCTION Man has always existed under the heavens, and man has always had a tendency to dream and gaze wondrously at the countless nighttime points of light. The intention of Arthur Koestler's The Sleepwalkers is to provide a comprehensive survey of man's ideas about the universe which encompasses him. The beginning of this journey starts in Babylonia and ends with Newton. In between is not a continuous stream of cosmological evolution, but a rapid, initial
Four great vision¬aries- Copernicus, Kepler, Brahe, and Galileo- were able to re¬store what was lost during this time and were also responsible for a re-evolution of cosmology.
CONCLUSION 	 Koestler provides an epilogue in which he theorizes of the past, present, and future of science.
As for the future, the book, printed in 1959, ends with Newton and not Einstein because he felt that the ideas of rela¬tivity and the curvature of space itself were not, at that time, established to the point warranting a discussion.
I found this rather more interesting.The emphasis now shifts from the evolution of ideas to the individuals responsible for it, beginning in Part 3 with Copernicus.Part 4 is the largest section and deals principally with Kepler, but also with Tycho and a little of Galileo.
Unlike Newton, for example, Kepler gives us details of how he arrived at his three laws of planetary motion, including mistakes and wrong turnings, and it is a fascinating story.Part 5 is mainly about Galileo and his clash with the Church.
After nearly 100 dense pages on the various non-entities surrounding Copernicus, a man who seems to have spent most of his life avoiding real work and contributed nothing really new by the way of astronomy or scientific thought, one wonders what exactly motivated Koestler to write this book.
Of course there is prurient interest in reading about how difficult it was for Copernicus and his fellow canons to get rid of their mistresses during the Chruch's reform movement in the mid 16th century, but one wonders what such alleys of social history add to any deeper understanding of 'man's changing view of the universe' - it's always been difficult to get girlfriends to leave your house; nothing new there.
