https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/134799.The_Theory_of_Economic_Development
The basic requirement for Schumpeterian Theory of Innovation
I really liked this book! The introduction was a good overview of academic economic history and gave good background for the original text. Having read the other two books of the "trilogy" first (I read the third book, "Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy" first, "Business Cycles" second, and *then* this book) I could see where Schumpeter was heading when he started referring to business cycles. I feel bad only giving this book three stars at first, but I'll review my notes and revise the rating if there was something else of value that I'm forgetting about...
This is an edition of Schumpeter's first book and a good articulation of his theory of innovation and entrepreneurship and how they fit into the capitalist order. It is especially valuable in showing how creative destruction and entrepreneurial finance fit into an economic system that is already at high employment. It is not for the faint of heart and their are better presentation of these ideas by Schumpeter later down the road, such as in Capitalism, Socialism, and Democracy.
"The 2nd chapter is the best. The first chapter sets up the logic and arguments supporting the second chapter. The rest of the book is dry and difficult reading. Also, Schumpeter wrote with an egotistical tone. As an example, "But I shall not add another word of explanation because the matter must be clear to the reader who gives it the appropriate attention."Recommended only for those with a keen academic interest in the role that entrepreneurship plays in economic development."
i love how he uses the circular flow of capital. what happens to capital once all domestic sources of investment are exhausted. great book on understanding the bottom up approach. That said it is not the easiest of reads, but his mind will amaze you.
Seminal work, but very technical and theoretical. Not suitable for laymen. Good for reference.
Mislim da mi je omiljeni deo knjige rasprava o kreditima.
