https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6139960-empire
Yes it is a creation of its time, the science is pure make believe, the characters stereotypical, and the moral message certain saccharin overload (although I think at the time of writing I am not convinced the saccharin was discovered (okay Google has just proven me wrong).However through all of this there is such an element of fun, you very quickly spot all of these flaws (after all having one of the characters furiously puff away at his pipe in the middle of a control room buried deep within a space ship?) but something strange happens.You don't care!
That core is good, or even great, if it stuck to political intrigue between an existing monopoly and an upstart new technology, and the social and political consequences of that.Instead, the story loses itself in the implausible endless things that the material energy field can do, such as spying on anyone anywhere, material projection of anything to anywhere, 3D projection of images anywhere, and even time-travel.
Many of the elements that make Simak's stories great are here, but it does not work as a whole.
It is filled front to back with old school Science Fiction cliches from the wealthy adventurous super scientists who smoke pipes and design and develop new technologies on the fly in the middle of a space battle to the lowly tech who sells out the scientists to the evil corporation.
There is no sex or even any female characters and everybody smokes.
(The scientists are high class they smoke pipes and you have to look down on the cigarette smoking tech who exhales smoke through his nose).

I'm a big Simak fan so when I saw Empire was available on LibriVox I went for it. Meh. This was one of his earlier novels, from 1951, and it really felt dated. The plot pacing was slow and I had a hard time remaining interested at points. There were some neat scientific concepts scattered throughout, cutting edge for the time, such as holograms, gravity manipulation, and advance energy generation techniques. But the story just didn't hold up for me.
Plot-driven, character-driven? Technologically driven. Wars of patents. Solar versus coal? The established versus the newly invented? Humans pulled along by their evolutionary limits in the technology their evolution called for?
This was a good LibriVox find. I've liked very much most of the Simak stories and novels I've read so far. He was a true quality SF golden age writer. Was right up there with Doc Smith, Pohl, Asimov and Williamson. A deserving grand Master. This story is packed with colossal ideas written with big ol' sense of wonder pros that was just right for its time. The story, though a bit "geeky" (but rightly so, considering its intended audience) is a grand fast paced technological and sociopolitical space adventure.If listening to the audio version, it is expertly narrated.
Unfinished. Didn't like the librivox sound quality
great science fictionMr Simak was a great writer
Certainly a dated book in terms of the science that it suggests, but still with a story about would be emperors and tyrants and the drive of man to be free and to explore. Maybe a hair too preachy in the last chapter or so, but still, a good and very readable yarn.
A Simple Juvenile workThis is a short book it only 145 Pages. It has a simple plan. And simple characters. The science fiction is also very simple and not well explained. I believe this is most likely intended for juvenile perhaps preteen audience from 1951 when it was published.
High 1.
Old, but good.
Wonderful super-science adventure with geniuses versus evil corporations. Some creative stuff here that is quite enjoyable. I think this could make a swell 2 or 3 part miniseries.
A children's book?It's been over 40 years since I've read any Simak. And it will be at least another 40 before I read another. This reads like a book written in junior high English class for pre-teen boys. Don't bother
Then the two just conflict the heck out of each other for 150 pages.To be fair, Simak did have some good ideas here--the idea that energy would be at a premium in space is realistic, he also discusses solar energy in a manner that approximates how we use it now, and also the greatest threat being a mega-corporation with a monopoly certainly was going against the grain at the time.
I think this book is worth going back as a slice of another time--a time for square jawed heroes using their brains against pretty obvious villains, and where just about everyone is good underneath it all.
Two scientists discover a field into which energy can be fed and then released, a field whose applications are soon built into a super-ship to defend the scientists against the minions of the Company as the secrets of free energy will mean the downfall of the tyrant Chambers whose monopoly of energy supply has put him in virtual charge of the Solar System.Simak here, uncharacteristically, takes great delight in exploring the unfolding layers of uses and applications that this new discovery promises and delivers.There is a hefty flavour of EE 'Doc' Smith here, reminiscent of the Skylark series; the two stuffy moral scientists versus their corrupt and power-hungry nemesis.

So far my only experience with Simak's work was "Way Station" which I thought was terrific.
Kindle offered a small bundle of his works (cheap) so I'm diving into more of his writing.
Like "Way Station" this is a thoughtful book.
It is classic science fiction adventure complete with a space battle and colonies on multiple planets but with a thoughtful bent.
The plot explores the nature of freedom and revolution and is reminiscent of Heinlein in this regard.
It's interesting that harnessing gravity waves was recently in the news and Simak was talking about it sixty years ago.
Spencer Chambers is the virtual ruler of the Solar System because his corporation owns the patent on the energy accumulators which power every aspect of interplanetary travel"," and even the continuing existence of Earth's colonies on other planets"," moons"," and asteroids. But Gregory Manning aims to break that monopoly"," by means of a technological breakthrough.But will Manning's discoveries allow him to triumph"," or is Chambers too deeply entrenched to be overthrown?The combination of super-science and social manipulation make this a science fiction tour-de-force.
Found this rare book written by my favorite author. Of course, it's not as great as stuff he wrote later, but even here I see glimpses of what made him so amazing--big ideas, real character interaction even in the middle of space opera, sparse but memorable prose. His stories are, IMO, the most human of all the golden age science fiction writers.Finding this makes me want to re-read all my favorites by Simak. Good memories.
This early Simak novel starts slowly, then races through much of the remainder, until some heavy-handed moralizing at the end. The characters are mostly flat, but there is enough action to somewhat compensate. It's about two scientists who devote themselves to breaking one man's interplanet economic empire. The dominating business leader isn't quite as evil as one might think, giving him some unexpected depth, relatively. The price was right, as Amazon offers this free to Kindles.
Every now and again, I re-read a science fiction novel I must have read when I was younger (I devoured them by the hundreds). I must have picked this one because of Simak's womderful City and Way Station, but I don't think this one was nearly as good as either of them, because I don't remember anything about it even though I only read it last year.
Not the best written book by a long shot, but the ideas behind the story are quite impressive. Simak basically lays out a neoimperialist plot for the solar system. The biggest ideas behind movies like Transformers are what cup sizes the actresses need to fill. So whereas this book more or less fails in prose, the imagination and earnestness behind it carry you through the end.
Early Simak Sci-Fi novel, very different from his later works. The story is as much about interplanetary business intrigue as it is about the good & bad guys. The scientific inventions really stretch the imagination, with little explanation. Still, though, a fun, fast novel to read. For Simak fans, it's interesting to see his early style.
I've been a fan of Clifford Simak for years, especially books like "City" and "Way Station". This is one of his earliest books, one I'd never read before, and it's quite unlike any of his others. It's fun, but more space opera than his normal thoughtful fiction. There's no real depth to the plot, and the characters are pretty basic. But it's entertaining, since Simak is never dull.
2013 Grade D. 1951. Free e-book with way too many long descriptions of how the fake technology works. Old hard SciFi where impossible inventions, and constructions in an impossibly short period of time save the empire and freedom for everyone. Not very good.
A little too simplistic for my taste. Has almost a comic book feel. Characters make massive leaps in technology which was hard too buy.
Just about readable.Dated,no women,just men sitting around, puffing on pipes.Snappily written.Mercifully short.Oh,and spaceships that travel at 10,000 times the speed of light..... !
good book
