https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/594134.By_the_Pricking_of_My_Thumbs
I read this book a very long time ago and never forgot the image of the old lady calmly saying that the milk is not poisoned TODAY and inquiring about the body walled up in the fireplace.
I also like that Albert is still with them and provides a bit of domestic comic relief.One more reason to admire this novel is the way that Christie sets herself a difficult challenge and lives up to it--rather like Nemesis, the mystery starts with almost no clues to go on, and the characters must think well outside the box to get on the right trail.
This is the first Tommy and Tuppence series I have read but it definitely won't be the last.
This novel possesses a chilling tone that intensifies as the story progresses.
The story finds Tuppence interested in a painting of a country house that is inherited from Tommy's aunt.
The novel is filled with neat mixture of characters and the plot is very original, with an ending you will never be able to guess (trust me on this).
I am going to check out the other Tommy and Tuppence series.
This book took me months to read. I do not think I have ever struggled through an Agatha Christie novel the way I struggled through this one. I picked it up and put it down...picked it up and put it down...picked it up...But that ending.Wow.Agatha Christie went creepy. It is wonderful. I added another star for the twist. I think I need to re-read this one someday, just in one sitting. Tuppence and her muddled brain and intuitive leaps really keeps things confusing (though doesn't push the plot far)Not my favorite Tommy and Tuppence Mystery, but what an ending!
Agatha Christie's leisurely murder mystery, begins in an old ladies home.Tommy Beresford is visiting his Aunt Ada, at Sunny Ridge.
This woman ,who seems slightly confused,always talking about a dead child!Miss Packard, who runs this peaceful establishment, doesn't take Mrs. Lancaster seriously.Three weeks later Aunt Ada dies and Mrs.Lancaster is suddenly taken away ,from Sunny Ridge.Tommy inherits a painting from his aunt, originally owned by Mrs. Lancaster.Tuppence being a generous woman, insists on giving back the picture .
This was an incredibly chilling mystery; I had the cover image and the creepy, insane mutterings of the killer burnt into my mind and preventing me from falling asleep. Scary.Agatha Christie has produced yet another brilliant mystery, one that is intense and possesses gripping tension throughout the entire novel as the detectives attempt to solve the puzzle. Tommy and Tuppence are back again, now very much advanced in age, but still as spirited as ever. The light romance between the two is very sweet, particularly considering their old-couple status.
Oh Aggie, your mind really must have been going to have written this and considered it a complete novel.
It doesn't make sense!
But in this mystery not only do they lack believable motivation for taking any action, they don't get to do much of anything together, and their chemistry is all wonky, which was the most depressing part.I'll take some of the blame for not understanding the plot, as I did fall asleep reading it maybe three times, but not much blame.
I mean, there's intentional ambiguity, and then there's throwing in plot points at random and forcing the reader to make sense of something is straight-up nonsensical.
By the Pricking of My Thumbs (Tommy and Tuppence, #4)تو باغ، رزها باهم رقابت دارند، با بویی دلفریب و مست کنندها. شربیانی
Tommy and Tuppence Beresford visit Tommy’s Aunt Ada in a retirement home called Sunny Ridge.
While Tommy is visiting with his Aunt, Tuppence goes to another room where she meets and has a conversation with another resident Mrs. Lancaster.
Tommy and Tuppence return to Sunny Ridge to make arrangements for Aunt Ada's possessions and find that Mrs. Lancaster left suddenly and unexpectedly.
Among Aunt Ada's possessions is a picture that Mrs. Lancaster had given her.
The sudden disappearance of Mrs. Lancaster, unexplained deaths at Sunny Ridge, unsolved murders of children years ago in Sutton Chancellor, a gang of thieves that used rented houses, a doll containing uncut diamonds.
The only other book I've read by her is And Then There Were None, which I deeply enjoyed, too, but I actually kind of guessed the end of that one (like I wasn't 100% confident, but when it was revealed, I was like yeah, I should've run with that thought).
Tommy and Tuppence are just a cute married couple that find themselves in these precarious situations (haven't read any other Tommy & Tuppence novels, but I'm just assuming) due to Tuppence's curiosity.Anyway, highly recommend, and I'm very excited now to get to the rest of the Agatha Christie on my shelf!
A recipe for one of Agatha Christie's most creepy, atmospheric thrillers:A senile old lady's mysterious words.A sudden disappearance.An oil painting of a house which invokes an unexpected sense of déja vu.A dead body walled off behind a fireplace.A stuffed, glassy-eyed, broken doll.A string of unsolved child murders.A missing grave.A killer in a home for elderly ladies.A cache of precious stones.All these set in a picturesque setting, along with a sprinkling of gossipy middle aged villagers, shifty lawyers and secret drawers are stirred up to put forth an old fashioned mystery, that is spell-binding in its quaint peculiarity.
Yine çok iyi yazılmış, ürkütücü bir hikaye.
It is without a doubt this is my favorite Tommy and Tuppence story.
Tuppence gets caught up in a mystery that is about the old, the young, what time can do to a person, and how you never quite know if your perception of something is the right one.
I have mentioned in other reviews that I prefer younger Tommy and Tuppence to older them, but this is the exception.
Tuppence continues to be possibly my favorite mystery-solver.
Definitely a darker more sinister story worth a more complicated plot than some of her others. Loved it!
And, it is worth bearing in mind that Tommy and Tuppence were the main characters of Christie's that aged in a linear and believable fashion; Miss Marple was pretty much unchanged for almost all her entire (very extensive) career.
Whereas Tommy and Tuppence, perhaps because they had so many fewer novels with written about them, with much wider gaps between stories aged and developed quite believably.In this story, the two visit Tommy's great aunt Ada, in a nursing home and as she is waiting for him Tuppence is asked the strangest question by one of the other residents, a question that leads to the pricking in her thumbs.
Not one of Christie's best . The original premise is interesting and has lots of potential but things rapidly go downhill. The plot takes in a dead child, jewel robberies, a criminal mastermind and a child killer to name but a few. A less scattergun approach would have made for a more coherent and enjoyable detective story.
Puoleen väliin asti kirja oli puisevaa luettavaa, lopulta alkoi sentään hieman tapahtua. Englantilainen maaseutu kätki jälleen sisäänsä epäsuskottavuuden rajoilla häilyvän tapauksen... ei ollut murhamamman parhaimmistoa tämä tapaus.
Picture Tuppence sitting infront of a fireplace at Sunny Ridge, as Tommy is upstairs visiting his old aunt.
Beside her sits an old and kind woman drinking hot milk.
They inherit a picture of a house from an old aunt of Tommy and Tuppence decides she has seen that house somewhere in England and goes looking for it.
This crazy search leads her to a house with a dark past and strange present.'By the pricking of my thumbs, something wicked this way comes'Agatha Christie always delivers and she has created two lovable chartacters in Tommy and Tuppence.
I feel an explanation is required since really, I would have thought NO ONE could rate a Tommy and Tuppence one star, but there you have it. I'm just not into her mental-murder mysteries, and while I enjoyed 3/4 of it comfortably, by the fourth I was uncomfortable and the last two chapters were just ghastly. It was, to be brief, too much for me-I prefer a mystery with a detective who quietly goes about arranging clues in order and making observations, with a less psychotic murderer.
The dynamic and dialogue between them is always a joy to read, and whilst part of me misses the snappier exchanges they had in their youth, another part of me likes that we get to see them age throughout the series - and change in both ability and temperament accordingly.
It could easily have ended up a mess, but she still manages to bring everything together and deliver a satisfying twist.I only have one more Tommy and Tuppence book left to read now, and I'll be sad to say goodbye to them.
Überzeugte mich leider nicht.
i'm so disappointed..well, this is a summary about how did the "adventure" started:Tommy and Tuppence went to an old age home called Sunny Ridge to visit Tommy's ant, Ant Ada..
while Tommy was talking to his old ant, Tuppence sat with Mrs Lancaster who also resides at Sunny Ridge, suddenly Mrs Lancaster asked Tuppence "was it your poor child?
Forty years after Christie first presented that dynamic spy duo, Tommy and Tuppence, to us in the 1920s, they are back at it, this time investigating a murder at a "home for old ladies." (Let's all just get it over with, roll our eyes at this sad cliché - two old detectives at an old folks home, which thankfully are now referred to as assisted living facilities - and get on with the review.) The solution involves a modified painting, smugglers, a child murderer, secret passages, questionable identities and perhaps every trope in this genre.
I am a little surprised that this book is rated so low by AC fans.
Admittedly, the plot is a little convoluted, but it is not fully unbelievable and the story unfolds in a decent manner.
(view spoiler)[I find it loathsome that AC depicted a woman who became insane because she had an abortion and then went around killing children.
(hide spoiler)] It's really stretching fact quite a bit.
(view spoiler)[My bet was on Ms Packard of the Sunny Ridge but alas, she turned out to be irrelevant!
(hide spoiler)]Excellent mystery and a chilling read, this is one of AC's lesser known books.
I always enjoyed a good Agatha Christie’s book, unfortunately “by the pricking of my thumbs” is not a “good” Agatha Christie’s!The story is so weak!
Tommy and Tuppence are not my favorite characters (that would be Poirot) but I already read some books about their adventures and they were quite good and interesting, but this….
I hate when that happen!!!Well, now I'll have to read a new Poirot's book to overcame this disillusion, my only problem is that, I don’t know if there’s any book about him that I haven’t read yet.
Masterful Agatha Christie classic. A Tommy and Tuppence mystery in which the intrepid Tuppence takes center stage. Subtle, multi-layered mystery that shows all of Dame Agatha's plotting and character creation skills. One of my all time favorites. (view spoiler)[The usual witty and pleasant banter between Tommy and Tuppence and the overall cozy-type style gives way to a jaw dropping and chilling ending. I was blown away and wasn't even close to seeing this coming. (hide spoiler)]
Christie was in her late 70s when she wrote this and, after decades of spewing out books, had clearly stopped bothering. I'd never heard of the protagonists - Tuppence and Tommy - before and I'm not surprised why. This is half-hearted piffle, splodged together and peppered with the odd bit of reactionary nonsense directed at the modern world of 1968.
Nothing give me more comfort than reading an Agatha Christie book while traveling. Not sure why, but she's been my go to for probably 20 years or more. And I was introduce to Tommy and Tuppence! I had no idea she had characters other than Poirot and Miss Marple!
I always enjoyed Christie's Tommy and Tuppence novels. I do like how she has them age as time goes by and they are a little different in each book. Here they are around retirement age and are starting to feel a little older. It was a fun read, but I think there was maybe just a little too much added to the plot. (view spoiler)[ The organized crime sub-plot that was added didn't seem needed to me. I think the story flowed just as well if it wasn't there. (hide spoiler)] The ending did surprise me
I always enjoyed Christie's Tommy and Tuppence novels.
I do like how she has them age as time goes by and they are a little different in each book.
Here they are around retirement age and are starting to feel a little older.
It was a fun read, but I think there was maybe just a little too much added to the plot.
(view spoiler)[ The organized crime sub-plot that was added didn't seem needed to me.
I think the story flowed just as well if it wasn't there.
Very much enjoyed this one.
A este libro no he podido darle el progreso pq sencillamente no he estado mucho en casa que es de donde tengo conexión pero: Ha sido un maravilloso reencuentro con Agatha Christie, nuevos personajes e investigadores, los esposos Beresford que son una delicia, tampoco sabes nunca quien es el criminal como nos tiene acostumbrados, una lectura llena de cosas que descubrír siempre con ese estilo muy inglés, yo diría con ese tono algo bucólico. Me ha encantado. Una lectura para pasar un buen rato.
A Tommy and Tuppence mystery where the reader now finds them in their 70's. For the majority of the book Tuppence is on her own when she decides to investigate a painting and clues left by an elderly aunt, a mystery going back many years but one she is determined to solve with dire consequences.
