https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/86451.Ill_Wind
After all, I was talked into buying the first 4 in the series at one time.
After setting out the "internal rules" of these "Wardens" dealings with the Djinn, the main character quickly proceeds to smash them to bits in her own dealings with the "rare" free Djinn she meets up with.
Well, you can look forward to my reviews of at least 3 more of these (if I can take it)...the lesson here is, just because someone you meet loved a book (or series) it doesn't mean you'll like them.
Compared to that, the djinn were *easy* to believe in.Which reminds me, if there's one thing I hate, it's a romantic interest who mysteriously turns up by the side of the road, but turns out to have been there on purpose because (drum roll) they've actually met before, in horrible circumstances crucial to the plot, which are all in that backstory that's slowly, slowly being doled out while the novel slogs along to the Big Climactic Not Exactly a Fight Scene.Was there anything to *like* about this book?
Joanne Baldwin is a powerful weather warden who is running from the storm, looking for her powerful friend Lewis who is the only one who can save her from a demon mark.
The whole story is basically set out around a huge road trip, but it's a journey definitely worth travelling.
The weather descriptions went over my head a little as they were a bit too scientific for my liking, but definitely makes it unique in a sense.
I loved how the story unfolded and felt like I went on a little journey myself, reading about the circumstances following Joanne.
I'm very pleased to report that my enthusiasm for this story has not dimmed with time!I absolutely love the way this story is set up.
We also get introduced to some very interesting secondary characters.I absolutely loved the way the author set up the world.
I'm very pleased that the author didn't just brush over these details.We got a very nice introduction to several secondary characters.
Kudos to the author for creating such an interesting character through flashbacks alone.
The action feels high paced, and I love the fact that things are constantly happening, but it leaves the character development feeling a bit of a lack.
Urban fantasy is full of powerful women.
I thought the concept of Weather Wardens was really cool.
Joanne can do that, but she is on the run for her life for most of this book.
Then there's the fact that the scenes in this book are so vivid and dramatic that they could be from a blockbuster action/sci fi movie, except Hollywood doesn't make movies this cool.
Djinn are underutilized in urban fantasy.
But the djinni are the red-headed stepchildren of folklore when it comes to urban fantasy, although their powers are probably more than most of the other mythical beasties combined.
I just started reading the Weather Warden series and it is so nice to know that the series is complete and that I won’t have to wait to read the next book.
There are 9 books in the Weather Warden series and I plan to read them all.
These Weather Wardens are assigned beings known as djinns to assist them.Ill Wind is the first book in the series and it focuses on Joanne Baldwin.
The author managed to personify the weather as malevolent entities seeking destruction.
She manages to neatly explain weather phenomena.
Ill Wind is action packed and as unpredictable as the weather.
Their power is augmented by djinn who do their bidding, but they're not invincible.Joanne Baldwin is a Weather Warden, and she's just had a Demon Mark forced onto her.
With a viscious storm following her and someone of immense ability trying to skewer her with lightening bolts, Jo finds that friends aren't who they seem and neither are new allies - including the cute hitchhiker, David.
It's subtle work, and they have to take into account things like how a storm cleared up in one place will only rebound with greater force elsewhere.
Cheerleaders practising naked in the parking lot?" I had high hopes for this book since I love Rachel Caine's Morganville Vampire series.
And David he is a interesting character that left me wanting to know more.
The only problem I had was I found the weather talk a little bit confusing at first but as the book went on it got easier to understand.Random Thought for my friends at Bookers: I'm not sure what year this book was published but in the story Joanne buys some velvet purple pants (I kid you not) and every time they mentioned (which was quite a lot) all I could think of was this http://images.buycostumes.com/mgen/me...
Rachel Caine just announced she is going to write another Weather Wardens Novel!!!!!
Sometimes you just fall into a series of books that take you away.
Joanna Baldwin is a weather warden, with a flick of her hand the weather above can move and change to help the world stay safe from natural disaster.
But when an evil force tries to frame her Joanne hits the road taking it by storm.
The back story of characters are rich and flow seamlessly in Rachel Caine’s writing.
" -Rachel Caine Weather Warden SeriesFor more reviews check out http://ktbookreviews.blogspot.com/
It was probably my least favorite first urban fantasy book in a series (that I've read so far), but I still enjoyed it and see its potential.First lets talk about the good stuff.
I also really loved the way we got to know about the world: through Jo's flashbacks.
The other characters are kinda meh right now, but this is the first book in a series so I'll let it slide.The other thing some people might find annoying is that not much really happens in this and it is all about getting to know Jo and this ling roadtrip.
So, I'm bumping it 1 star because I think my ennui is driving my reflex rating down & the story had its moments.
I don't know enough about the weather to know if all the science was right, but it sure sounded good, although where Joanne gets all the power to do what she does is a question at times.The author took some chances with characters that I liked, too.
She didn't do an information dump, but took advantage of driving time & situations to feed me & let me guess ahead.I may get the next book in the series, but I'm not in a rush.
A firm 3 stars to the start of this series. I like the idea behind the weather wardens and the twist at the end has actually made me more interested than I would have been to carry on reading this series.
I especially love when Joanne (the main character) is musing on he nature of the elements.
The present timeline with Joanne's escalatingly bad situation forms the framework of the narrative and is interspersed with flashbacks that form the meat of the story that fills in the framework.
I did like his character but his persona was very elusive and very much bound up in Joanne's 'present' narration so I never truly connected with him either.6) The romance.
With all that I think the 'What works' far outweighed and more heavily influenced my enjoyment of the book that the 'what didn't work.' I do plan to read the next book because I love the idea of the series so much.
Highly entertaining and with an easy to like heroine, Joanne takes us on a road trip chasing after a friend that she thinks will be able to help but might just have caused a whole heck of a lot of problems. I really enjoyed the weather based magic system that this author created and the mixing of it with Dijinn magic.This girl drives a mustang so how could she not be in for trouble? Hot men help too of course.
Seriously, fuck those guys.So the idiot brigade is chasing Jo to OKC for the big show-down.
She was, it seemed, a particularly powerful human being, she had some strange yin/yang thing happening with Lewis that I wanted to know about, and now she's something completely different, not a weather witch anymore, because hey, djinn are basically all mini-Lewises - they seem to have all the elements in their control.
Are we seriously supposed to believe that the entirety of the Warden's Association is too fucking stupid to ask their djinn to allow them to see Demon Marks?And can someone PLEASE explain Lewis?
3.5 “People talk about nature as a mother, but to me she's always been Medea, ready and willing to slaughter her children.”This unusual Urban Fantasy has a modern day world where there are special people who possess the power to control the elements.
Joanne as the main character is one of the more powerful, young and on the run, suspected for something not her fault, seeking out another renegade who may be able to help her out of her tricky predicament.“Me and normal have never really been on speaking terms.”Some of the plot surprises I had guessed ahead of time, one or two I hadn’t.
Excuse me while I babble.This book is really hard to rate. On one hand I didn't really enjoy the story overall (which is not to say I didn't like it, but I wasn't impressed by it) but on the other hand the storyline was really original-especially when compared to whats on the market at the moment. I mean c'mon, this book had genies! (Can you say awesomesauce?) I don't think Jo makes a good Urban Fantasy MC—I don't even know if this book should be classified as an Urban Fantasy. She is one of  th

Very fast, witty and quippy.
Very big on the "I'm a kick-ass woman who loves muscle cars, sex, and driving fast, but I still love pretty clothes and designer coffees." Several clever turns of phrase here.The story starts out in the middle of action.
By starting with the action, we dispense with all that boring build-up of setting and rising action and get right to it.
The author dropped informational nuggets into the story in the form of flashbacks to get us up to speed, in the meantime...the reader is treated to an action-packed romp.
I won't say anything but WOW did not see THAT coming.I loved this book.
and If you are a dresden fan you will certainly like this book.
I couldn't put it down and was sad it was over and that doesn't happen too often!
I felt for the character like I knew her and pulled for her and hated it when things didn't go her way.
I love that she is both strong yet very vulnerable and weak at times, made her very real.I don't like that it ended so suddenly....
I wanted more followup to what happened to everyone...
First books in series don't generally rate as a 5 star book.
You've got the world-building, getting to know the MCs, whether you like the MCs etc etcThis book just blew me away it was so original.
We have Weather Wardens, controlling the elements and trying to control mother nature and storms, which can have sentience ie intelligence.
Helping the Wardens are Djinn, but not willingly, they seem to be enslaved.Can't believe I haven't read this series already.
Luckily I have all the rest of the series and the spinoffs.
This was good people, if you haven't read it yet, why not?
Ill Wind starts off with a thunderous bang!Joanne Baldwin, is one of the Weather Wardens and she's running for her life, being accused of murder and all.
Only he's in more hot water then she is.This is one road-trip-straight-to-hell that is not like any other as Joanne fights to save her life, the people that she's meet on the way, while trying to figure out who she can trust...I swear, Rachel Caine can do no wrong in my eyes.
Now, I just have to get my hands on the next eight books:) A Must Read for any Rachel Caine fans out there!
It begins in medias res, with plenty of hints at supposedly exciting things that happened before the book began.
She stops at this restaurant, and makes a snarky mental comment about the guys eating there having "the physique of people who drive all the time and eat nothing but HoHos." This from the girl who has done nothing but drive for the entire book, and eaten...lets see: pizza, cheese puffs, candy, and a greasy cheeseburger.
Oookkay.Speaking of looking good, I died laughing when she went to the mall, came out, and her super hot new outfit was "low rise purple velvet pants, and a purple velvet jacket." Really, Rachel Caine?
Ill Wind is the first installment in the Weather Warden series by Rachel Caine.
I recently read Undone; which is a branch off of the Weather Wardens series.
And I really enjoyed that book, so I decided to get into the Weather Wardens series and was really glad I did.
Joanne Baldwin is a Weather Warden, with power over wind and water.
Currently, she's on the run from a murder wrap and unfortunately she's bearing a demon mark too.
I really loved the idea of the Weather Wardens and cannot wait to read the rest of the series.
Synopsis:Joanne Baldwin is a Weather Warden.
This is what goodreads has to say about Ill Wind-First in the new Weather Warden series...
I started listening to the audio book but the narrator while being good just didn't hold my attention so I ended up reading it instead and I'm so glad that I did.
I will definitely be reading the entire series and I recommend it to everyone.
Read the weather warden series you won't be able to put it down.
The beginning was confusing and the author dolled out information one grain at a time.
I was extremely frustrated and considered quitting the book more than once.
I would have given this 5 stars except for my frustrations with the beginning.
But, I did not read this for the weather.
The characters were fun and I really enjoyed reading about the different relationships and connections each character had.
I was surprised throughout most of the book and I loved the djinn, something different and new.
I will positively be reading the rest of the series.
She bears a demonic taint and is pursued by evil forces, creating a malevolent storm, tracking her every movement.The main storyline is interspersed with flashbacks of her previous life, providing some world building, giving her a backstory and slowly catching up to the current plot.Not bad, but not as gripping as I thought, based on the book blurb and not a funny and snarky as I expected, after reading a short story set in the same universe.
And why do the wardens have to manipulate the weather at all?I am not so happy about the instalove either.

I really love Rachel Caine's writing style, and figured it was time for me to start one of her other series.
I love the Morganville Vamps so much, and I hope I will grow to love Joanne and her gang, too.
This is an original take on the urban fantasy...I haven't read too many involving people who control weather, let alone djinn (genies).
Just like any typical UF heroine, Joanne is super strong and has way too many potential love interests to suit me, but I'm hoping it will all pan out like I want it to.Looking forward to the next book, and having a new series to enjoy!
I didn't love this. There wasn't anything wrong with this book, but I didn't really enjoy reading this much either.I can't even come up with a decent review right now to say what's on my mind either. Maybe later.Hearing Tom Jones sing My My Myyyyyy Delilah every time they mentioned the Mustang didn't help either.
The first half of the story was sort of 'meh', but mid-way though things picked up. I think it's really more of a 3.5 star book, but the ending bumped it on up to a 4 star for me. I sure didn't see THAT coming. Also, I think I've developed a crush on David, so it looks like I'm going to have to continue reading this series.
