https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/672493.The_Pursuit_of_God
He is very well read and often deals with theological topics but he typically scoffs any intellectual dealings with faith and puts forth his down to earth alternative.
I liked the book (this is my second time through it).
Tozer has many good observation about a life of faith and good insight can be gained from reading this book.
----------------------------------------Second ReviewI revisited Tozer recently and concluded that I was a bit too rough on him in the first time around.
The reason from his initial distancing of his argument from scripture is because God needs to be viewed as a person to be interacted with and not a distant deity to give lip service.
Broke down in tears reading one of Tozer's prayers. Praise God for the hour I spent reading part of it today, it was as if God was hear with me sharing the wisdom from the book! Incredible book that taught me to slow down and listen to God.
As a Church, we are creating a new breed of Christian who understands doctrine better than at any point in history yet fails to understand what it truly means to be a follower of Christ.Having identified the problem, Tozer offers a beautiful solution that is more practical and mystical than theological.
While many Christian writers invite the reader to seek God to the point of making a decision for Christ, Tozers encourages the Christian to make the seeking of God the continual foundation upon which their life is built on.Tozer’s book served to draw me closer to God and instilled in me the desire to come even closer.
I read this book over and over. It's the one I'd pick to have on a desert island. The way Tozer talks about faith and living the Christian life--he takes what religion has turned into complicated and noncommittal routines and returns to the blessed simplicity of what it means to pursue God, to fully engage your heart with His. I can't write a review that will do the book justice. It's a short one and can be read in one day, so see for yourself.
I read this many moons ago, and just now listened to it again. Very edifying book, with some brilliant sections.
We accept with our mind the theological truths of the Bible, but do not show by our actions that we have truly taken them to heart.Give a favorite quotation from the book and discuss why and how it impacted you.“Has it ever occurred to you that one hundred pianos all tuned to the same fork are automatically tuned to each other?
They are of one accord by being tuned, not to each other, but to another standard to which each one must individually bow.
The theme dealt with has to do with the basic idea of "finding God" vs.
There are places I must disagree with some of whats taught here, but that does not mean that I disagree with the basic point of view.I can and do highly recommend this for Christians seeking a closer relationship with God.I won't go into basic disagreements as the bottom line is that I don't think "where we disagree" is on a point of doctrine that would "force" two Christians to have a major disagreement (though some of course would/will.
Recommended especially for Christian readers.
Feeling humbled to write a review on a book written by such a man of deep faith as AW Tozer.
The thing that most struck me was the importance of keeping our gaze on the Lord no matter what we are doing at the time.
No conversation or task mundane if undertaken with our eyes on the face of God. While it sounds a bit intimidating to train ourselves to focus on two things at once, certainly we do so all the time.
An interesting and inspirational guide for Christians seeking to get closer to God.The book is public domain and is available free from many sources. I downloaded free, from Amazon, to my Kindle. I listened to it on LibriVox, also free, as I read on Kindle.It is about a two (2) hour read.
I cannot recommend this book highly enough.
AW Tozer's genuine passion for God and to see others encounter and draw near to God is unmistakable.
He is relentless with his courageous call for a life lived in opposition to nominal Christianity.Casual, or common, Christianity is not a legitimate option in Tozer's view of things.
The book is basically the author's attempt to walk through the disciplines, or methods of pursuit.
He leaves room for the reader to "fit" each method to his/her own unique personality, but he is intractable with regard to the importance and meaning of each of them.
I have been wanting to read this book for a long time, and I am amazed that as I completed this book I wondered that had I read it sooner it would not have been as impacting.
The simplicity of the pursuit and how our fallen nature and desires complicate the journey resonate with me.I do highly recommend this book for those honestly seeking God. In fact, I plan to get a hard copy as it seems to be one of those books I would turn to time and time again for a perspective check and maybe even a new insight should I mature in my walk.
Every Christian should read this book.
As I was reading, I had a longing in my heart.
It was about surrending and the importantance of knowing who God is.
This book is a freeing that it releases many lies that as christians we can believe.
Only the truth will set us free to love and to surrender.
How we are to beseech the lord to show us his Glory.
Which again leads to a total surrender.
I loved how each chapter ended in a heart-felt prayer to the Lord.
This book is a blessing to read over and over again.
Such crafted language is beautiful enough to make one want to pursue God. Yet it is not the outer beauty of the writing that captures a person in this book, it is the passionate heart-filled exhortations which overflow with love for Jesus that make one desire to pursue God after reading this book.
Tozer writes not only with passion, but also with God-exalting humility.
I greatly recommend this book for anyone who wishes to draw nearer to and deeper with God.
Considering Tozer wrote this classic on an all night train from Chicago to Texas, I'm challenged to redeem the time I spend on airplanes!This intensely spiritual yet practical book gets beyond emotive arguments for pursuing God. Tozer stimulates a hunger for God and teaches us to find him in various ways and placed.
He kindles the fire so that we become dissatisfied to religious programs and orthodox theology alone.
Nothing less than the presence of God will satisfy.
I was especially challenged by the chapters on meekness, possessing nothing, hearing the voice of God, and apprehending God by faith.
A book worth your time.
I would recommend this to any Christian. In fact, once I finished, I ran down to Barnes & Noble and bought 2 extra copies for friends. I took my time to read it (4.5 months). Read it, shared excerpts with others, meditated on it. This explores the importance of passion in seeking God by a man who lived with passion for God. It is so easy to get distracted by a noisy and demanding world and this book is spiritual succour
The Pursuit of God is one of those books that ought to be studied by everyone.
Ever chapter finishes with a prayer that convicts my heart and brings the lessons that much closer to my soul.Next week WOTG will dedicate the whole week to specific lessons from The Pursuit of God and Tozer’s life.
I hope that you’ll find value in the lessons, but more-so, I hope you find the time to not only ready Tozer, but to study and know him as you pursue God.Check out my book reviews every Wednesday at worthyofthegospel.com
A classic, by one of the greatest minds and theologians of our time. Although written a long time ago, the content still holds true. It challenged me. Encouraged me. After reading this I can honestly say, "I want more of God." And isn't that the point?

This little classic is a gem and is actually available for free in e-versions!
He explores how it is that we open ourselves up to God and hear God. While there are points at which his references are plainly connected to his own time, this is more than made up for by the spiritual richness in these pages.
We used this for a book discussion and each chapter provided us with 45 minutes of rich content for discussion and the prayers at the end of each chapter became our prayers to end our time together.
This book addressed specific areas in which Christians can pursue God with one’s whole heart, mind, soul, and strength and gave me quite a few things to think on and strive to change in my own thoughts or attitudes.
The chapters are short and the book makes for a great two-week daily devotional book.
I don’t always agree with Tozer’s theology, but I do always enjoy reading him - He has the imaginative qualities of C.S. Lewis that I like except with a better foundation for what he believes.
I rarely hand out five stars. But this book is worth it only considering the prayers at the end of every chapter. However, the content of the book is filled with wonderful insights, the likes of G. Campbell Morgan and Alexander McLaren. It's a short read but full of dynamite. You can spend many hours meditating on what you will read here.
I have so many highlights, it's hard to sit down and pick the best. Excellent book!
Moody has thankfully provided us here with an edition that is both economical and of a quality made to last.This edition has a short article called “Tozer’s Legacy” that tells us a little bit about the man and that he wrote this volume on his knees.
He often draws on the incredible attributes of God, something else he is famous for writing about, to show, for example, what His presence and voice means.
Every Christian should read this book in his or her lifeI received this book free from the publisher.
Tozer describes relationship w/ God in nontraditional terms, which could be mystical or could just be refreshingly innovative.
"There must be somewhere a fixed center," he writes, "against which everything else is measured, where the law of relativity does not enter and we can say ‘IS’ and make no allowances,” (100).
And in God, Tozer finds it: "Everyone and everything else measures from that fixed point [of God:].
‘I am that I am,’ says God, ‘I change not’" (ibid).
I like that: God as Fixed Point.
A very nice antidote to the rampant relativity of 21st C.
I read as many books as I can find about Christianity and this book came highly recommended.
This is a must-read for any Christian.
It will instill a greater knowledge and understanding of Christ's love for you every time you read it.
I won't give any details away because I believe the book needs to be read to understand what I'm writing.
There are few books that I've read that make the power of the Trinity in my life so evident.
I've read it numerous times.
I won't put a finish date, because I intend on reading it for a very long time.

This book was a free Kindle download on my iPhone, and if I had realized what a treasure I've been carrying with me, I would never have looked at Facebook or any other app.
I knew in the back of my head that this was classic Christian Literature, but I found it so practically applicable to the culture today.
I found myself reading and re-reading certain pages, not because they were difficult to understand, but because I was in awe of how these words on the page so accurately summed up the struggles and conditions of us all, and the simple yet profound responses were such a refreshment to my soul.
This is probably Tozer's best known work. And, it is a classic! He wrote this in 1948, but most of it could have been written yesterday. Timely teaching on living the Christian life. If you've never read it, you need to read it now!I just finished reading this for the third time. So much of it still resonates with me. He is so practical on so many levels. I just realized reading it this time, how much of what he was think in 1948 fits into my thinking in 2018. Amazing book that is well worth your read!
This was a May re-read. Tozer is an incredibly rich writer which defies easy categorization. Your everyday evangelical, fundamentalist mystic radio-preacher from a few decades back. So much here that is worth digesting slowly. With as much as I read, it is sometimes daunting dipping back to old favorites. Will they hold up? Will they be good as I remember them? In this case, just rewards--Tozer is the real deal.
This has been a great book to read and listen to simultaneously while being off work due to an injury. I found this book to be refreshing, encouraging,and challenging. I loved the prayers at the end of each chapter, which help one start to put into practice these great seeds of the Christian faith gleaned by Tozer.
