https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/826585.If_You_Give_a_Pig_a_Pancake
Kids are going to love this If You Give series by Laura Joffe. The fun is to the point. I can really imagine how happy children are going to be when they get to know what happens when they give a pancake to a pig!
My kids absolutely love the  If You Give a  series by  Laura Numeroff . In this installment we meet pig and learn about the chaos that will ensue if we were to give a pig a pancake. The story is fun and silly, the illustrations are cute and appropriate for youngsters.
This book made me exhausted. This is one messy and chaotic pig. I do admire her love of maple syrup. Orianna, on the other hand, seemed a bit mystified by the antics and the girl characters willingness to follow the pig's whims. In the end, the important part is that she understands the relationship between syrup and pancakes. Job done.
If you give a pig a pancake:6-8I liked this story; it gives you so many ideas to work with, such as pancake lesson, Sequence, what comes after each steps.
Teach the children very nice things like when you want to send a letter what should you do first, write the letter down, then put it in the envelop and put stamps and take it to the mailbox.
Another thing is the tree house, what you need when you want to build one.
I think that this book is very expressive in the way that it was both written and illustrated.
I like how the events that took place are displayed in sequential order.
It helps readers to understand that once the pig has done something, this is what happens next all the way to the end of the book.
But what is neat-is that once you reach the end of the book...
I thoroughly enjoyed this book and the children that I work with seem to love it too.
They can almost quote what is going to happen next!
THESE are the kinds of children's books I enjoy and feel that children should be reading or having read to them!
This is a modern classic that is placed in the series of books that includes "If You Give a Mouse a Cookie" and "If You Give a Moose a Muffin." One zany thing leads to another and it is just wacky and hilarious.
At the same time, children will almost definitely understand everything that is going on in this "if and then" arrangement.
This is definitely a children's book that should be in your child's book collection!
Good grief, after my nephew shoved this book in my face the fourth time I gave it a whirl. I'm glad I did. The combination of detail in the art and the sweat surrealism in the story made me turn the pages not to convince my nephew, but because I wanted to see where it was going(embarrassing considering it's a children's book!). My nephew enjoyed it and so did I and that's why I recommend you get a copy and find out just what happens If You Give a Pig a Pancake.
The story begins when the little girl gives the pig a pancake and snowballs from there.
Next, the pig wants syrup and then she gets sticky so she'll need a bath.
The illustrations by Felicia Bond present the little pig's actions fairly well, but the layout can be confusing for children because multiple scenes are presented on each two-page spread (hence only 3 stars).I can't help but thing of "The Song that Never Ends" from Lamb Chop's Play Along (a television program for young children (here's a youtube video of the song from the program http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VZNaec...
The main theme of this story is that sometimes when you have lots of demands for someone, it can get crazy and that person gets tired.I love this story because I personally love pigs, and I think the little illustrations are absolutely hilarious.
I love it when picture books have funny illustrations and I found myself laughing out loud several times while reading this because of the pig's crazy antics.I would recommend this book to young children, because the story will captivate them and keep them focused, since you are constantly anxious about what happens next.
In this story the little pig receives a pancake from a young girl, but then the pig continues to ask for more and more.
The little girl persists in his wants, and it is humorous to see the pig's destruction.
This book is for beginning reading levels.
I'd have them read this story with me, and then I'd have them think of someone that helps them a lot, such as a parent or sibling.
Next, I'd have my students write thank you notes to the people that they think help them out the most.
If you give a pig a pancake.
This was a cute picture book. I loved the fact that when the pig got one thing it led to a whole bunch of different things. I don't really have much to say about it except that the artwork was beautiful and now I'm interested in checking out her other stories.
this book is just ok...its got nothing on "If you give a mouse a cookie"
It all started with, "If you give a mouse a cookie.." This series, I feel like, has been around for a very long time. I think I enjoy these the most because although the animal and object might change in the book, they all go together in different ways so in the end, they all lead back to..."If you do this....Then this"
I love this book
this is a cute little story.
Summary:This book is about a young girl caring for her pig.
The pig is demanding, with one thing leading to having to do another thing (for example giving the pig a pancake, the pig wanting syrup, but then the pig gets sticky and needs a bath).
The pig has the girl do many things, but they eventually all lead back to wanting a pancake to go with her syrup.Evaluation:This was another one of my favorite books to read as a kid, and it has not changed as rereading it as an adult.
The students could learn about sequential order through this book.
This book has colorful illustration. Children love silly and funny books. It teaches love of pets. It teaches young children what comes next, and allows to do activities such as cooking. Also allows asking children questions using the word "If" and "then."
Great book for teaching young children sequence beginning middle end, first next then last, and an overall fun book to read to children and have fun while reading, also please dont read without having pancakes ready:)
1) This kid-friendly fiction book sends the child’s imagination soaring with the detailed pictures and creative storyline of the girl eating pancakes with a pig. This story goes from the girl and the pig eating pancakes to the pig wanting to take a bath and the series of events continues until in the end the pig wants some more pancakes and the girl is so tired because of the day that they have had. 2) Ages 0-5, Kindergarten3) This book could be used as a first time reader for children with easy
1)	This kid-friendly fiction book sends the child’s imagination soaring with the detailed pictures and creative storyline of the girl eating pancakes with a pig.
Then at the end of the small groups, everyone could share in front of the class how their literature circle learned to read it as a team.6)	This book could be used in whole class use and read aloud to the class to introduce cause and effect, with the pages always leaving you hanging on what the pig and the girl are about to do and you could have students guess before you turn the page.
This little pig gets a pancake, but that's not enough she wants some maple syrup to go with it.
However, the syrup made the pig sticky so now he needs a bath..
with bubbles, but the bubbles make him want a toy, so the little girl has to go find a rubber toy for the pig, which happens to be a little duck.
The toy duck makes the pig homesick and then she feels the need for even more things.
2) Grade level, interest level, lexile (1 pt)-Kindergarten-2nd grade.3) Appropriate classroom use (subject area) (1 pt)-Fun entertainment.
I really enjoyed reading this book "If You Give a Pig a Pancake" to my cousin, who loves reading and listening to books.
At the end of the book the pig ends up wanting more pancakes.
The pig was used throughout the whole book.
This book took place during the summer or fall months.
My younger cousins also loved the book.
I think it would be a great book to read to any child.
This book could be a good bonding time if you read it to your child.
Then tell them that you're going to read a story about a guest who causes a lot of trouble  Read Aloud for Curricular Purposes: - This book has great potential to be acted out.
You could have all the students stand in a circle and listen to the story, and act out what the pig is doing when you tell them to
It pretty much talks about a pig that was eating a pancake with syrup.
The pig gets all sticky and takes a bath with a rubber duck.
Having that rubber duck made the pig homesick making her do all kinds of crazy things.
At the end after the pig built a tree house, she wanted more syrup, and if she wanted more syrup, that means she wants another pancake.
The book gives out a good story for little kids.
I mostly recommend this book to kids in elementary and middle school.
It's a short, easy to read and also funny book.
The gently outrageous consequences that stem from a simple act: giving a mouse a cookie, a muffin to a moose or a pancake to a hungry pig - are sure to make any reader smile.
The kids hung on every word and took in every colorful, detailed picture.
They also knew what was coming so when we got to the last page, they all knew that the pig, in the end was going to ask for a pancake.
After words I got out a flannel of the story, and the children retold the story with the help of the flannel clues - and they did a very good job of it, too!
I think that the book If You Give a Pig a Pancake, is a good book for young children.
They would be interested in the pictures, and the message isn't hard to understand.
I connected with the book, because the girl in the book connects well with pets.
If You Give a Pig a Pancake is not just about connecting with a pet, it also shows that it is a lot of work to have a pet.
The girl loves her pig, but by the pictures you can tell it is hard work to have a pet pig.
“If You Give A Pig A Pancake” really brought back memories for me, I read it quite often when I was little. It was a quick read, and only took me about seven minutes to read. Any little kid would love the little girl and pig who get into all kinds of trouble. The end of the book is the best part, i like how the pig asks for syrup and the book starts all over again.I recommend this book to any parents looking for a book for their kids who are just starting to read.
This book is about giving a pig a pancake and what will follow after. The pig will want many things that will eventually lead to others. Can the girl who gave the pig the pancake keep up with what the pig wants. I recommend this book to everyone from kids to parents. It is a good book about how to make a pig happy.
This book was really cute and the illustrations supported the storyline throughout the book. It is a book that I would read to my class during a morning meeting or if there is a lull in the schedule for the day. It is a fun book where the storyline is funny, keeps you guessing what else the pig will want or need, and so forth. Overall, this picture book was a quick and fun read!
Cute and clever. But not a lot of content here. No real story but definitely a chain of events. With not as repetitive text as I would have expected. And good enough art. So not a bad book at all, just not great. 3.5 of 5.
If you give a pig a pancake is a very humorous story. This story has a lot of sequencing and can help a child understand steps. Often times students can relate because they'll ask for one thing, then another, then another.
