https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66512.The_Murders_of_Richard_III
Fairly average, predictable and try hard 'English Country House' mystery with a quirky American librarian as the sleuth. The subject matter was not dissimilar to Tey's The Daughter of Time but I'm afraid that's where the comparison ends. However, I did enjoy that this book characterized fanatical Ricardians as complete nutters and I couldn't resist awarding it an extra star for that fact alone ;-).
I really, really dislike this character Jacqueline the librarian, and am shocked by it, because I enjoy Peters' other two series very much, especially Vicky Bliss.
Jacqueline, like Amelia, expresses certainties about her own character that her actions belie, i.e., that she does care about people and their troubles, but she is a woman set loose in mid-life from the duties of motherhood and she is only serving her own whims.
The mystery is an English country-house Agatha Christie set-up.
It is okay, but disliking the main character made it hard to pay attention to whether it was a good mystery or not.
Murder and mayhem among the Ricardians, c. 1974.I didn't enjoy this as much as the Amelia Peabody mysteries I've read, by the same author, but it was an enjoyable way to spend an afternoon in bed when I wasn't feeling well.
You don't have to be a Ricardian to enjoy the story, but being a bit of one myself, this was my main motivation for reading this - and it made me think I should probably take up the old study (last endulged something like ten years ago now) again.The book was written in the 1970s, and it shows.
Also, the interaction between the characters often seemed haphazard to me: quarrels break out for no reason, frowns and smiles show equally without motivation.Still, in spite of these it was a quick and amusing read.
So I am a perfect audience for this updated, at times hilarious, revisit to the Ricardian controversy, especially from one of my favorite writers.Jacqueline Kirby, librarian at a small Midwestern college, is on vacation in London when her friend Thomas invites her to attend a meeting of his Ricardian society, funded by a wealthy industrialist who has just acquired a letter proving Richard's innocence.
And again like Die for Love, this book ends with a long explanation by Kirby, without which readers could not solve the mystery (although all the necessary pieces are present).
I thought that this would be an interesting light read because it was written in 1974 and the subject matter was very relevant to the present day.
I was keen to know how Richard III was perceived retrospectively.
The story is very light and if you are interested in a beginner's guide to who was who at the court of King Richard then you will enjoy it.
I felt that there was just too much information as the reader is bombarded by different speculations and anyone who knew nothing about the events would, I feel, come out of it knowing even less than they did in the first place.
I love the old fashioned mysteries like Sherlock Holmes or Lord Peter Whimsy.
I did like the Jacqueline Kirby character quite a bit, and went on to read other books in her series.
I would have rated this book higher if the other characters were as believable as she is.
Peters is a prolific author, so most people who read mysteries probably already know if they like her or not.
If you liked her other books, this one is definitely one of the higher quality plots.
I had feared there would be too much about the mystery in modern times and not enough about Richard III, but there was enough discussion of the past (and love for the long-dead man) to suit my tastes.
And since there was more than one mystery, while I solved one of them well before the reveal, the other one snuck up on me.Elizabeth Peters is one of my favorite writers, and so far none of her books have disappointed me.
This one excited me more than usual, however, because of my keen interest in Richard III, and I had hoped it would prove to be her best work (or at least my personal favorite).
I was really excited to read this as I am a staunch Richardian.
However, after the page where the character goes on and on about how Charles II was sexy and didnt care about the paintings about those who were not?
Yeah, I just made the decision then not to invest my time.I am not saying that all I read is first rate literature...it is just that that particular scene turned me off just ever so much.Can anyone tell me that I am wrong and it is worth a read?
I do see that it gets mainly three to four stars?
Oct 2018: a bit messy on audio and the fat-shaming is really appalling, perhaps just because I was mildly irritated by reader Grace Conlin and majorly irritated by Jacqueline Kirby’s smugness. I wish that as a know-it-all librarian she would be a bit more kind. Not adjusting the stars but this time I’d not give it more than three.Aug 2013: Five stars for being a good Jacqueline Kirby, but perhaps I like it because it is so Vicky Blissish? I have a soft spot for historical reenactment crazies and they're all here.
This is a Jacqueline Kirby mystery, and I like her even if she is a too-perfect Mary Sue. The book is fun, a drawing room mystery where all the suspects are within one social group, gathered in one house. The group in question are re-enacting the history of Richard III, so the history and theories about the late king are a bonus. This is a quick, easy read.
I didn't like the main characters as much as I did Amelia Peabody and her gang, so I wish I could give this one a 3.5. That, and there needed to be more actual death, rather than the constant 'practical joke' teases. But otherwise highly enjoyable, Christie-esque reading.
Not too exciting of a mystery, but I enjoyed the character of Jacqueline Kirby enough to get through. She certainly stole the show from the stupid, whiny, preposterous protagonist. The rest of the characters are pretty one-dimensional but they are good enough to prop up the plot.
While I loved the Richard III historical references, the plot and characters failed to really grab me in this highly anticipated read. The 3-star rating aptly describes my feelings toward The Murders of Richard III, it was OK.
The most fun of all the Jacqueline Kirby mysteries by Elizabeth Peters.
Grabbed this one because it mentioned Richard III in the title...been a little hooked on that subject since reading Tey's Daughter of Time.This is a good one. Three and a half stars.
Clearly one of her earlier novels. The introduction was slow, and the "who done it" explanation really dragged on. And the plot just wasn't that compelling.
I liked Book 1 better - this was a classic whodunit book and it caused me to do more research on Richard III (I had read in the news recently that they just confirmed finding his remains) but the book itself I did not enjoy nearly as much as the Amelia Peabody series.
Jacqueline's character isn't as developed as Amelia's and we don't know anything about her children (at least in the two books I have read) or much of anything else about her other than she is a librarian whose glasses slip down on her face in varying degrees, and that she is beautiful.
I suspect I am spoiled by the Amelia Peabody series, which I love.
This one looked unpromising to start with, just because of the characters: The heroine has a few too many Mary Sue qualities, and the point-of-view character a lech.
I also appreciate the extensive revisiting of 15th-century history; more knowledgeable readers might find the amount of exposition excessive, but for me it's just right.
I'm no connoisseur of mystery novel plots, but the solution here strikes me as unpredictable, plausible, and clean.This is a quick, pleasant read and it makes me interested in checking out more of Peters's stuff.
I had not realised the Elizabeth Peters had written a book away from her Egyptian series, until it was mentioned in an article I was reading.
This led me to a light interesting read.
All the traditional mystery tropes: weekend house party, dark building, gathering of disparate people, plus they are Ricardians, lovers of King Richard III or are they?
You will be wondering why I gave it four stars after the paragraph above.
I gave it four stars because I laughed throughout, I enjoyed the set up, I liked the playful way that Elizabeth Peters led us through the story.
So do read the book.
A quick read....an okay mystery....I've read Elizabeth Peters' books before...this one is so-so. Yes, it contains a great deal of historical fact about the controversy surrounding Richard III, but it didn't reach the level of brilliant writing in the "Daughter of Time"---but then, what other book can? The characters were, for the most part, flat and unlikable...I used it as a bit of fluff to give relief from heavier reading. Her more famous series (Amelia Peabody) has better characters, more research, and better plots...but this one is at least 3 stars. Not her best work, but an okay read.
Elizabeth Peters' mysteries are usually amusing confections with a dash of scholarly wish-fulfillment, and this is no exception. Our charming and witty heroine attends an academic conference-cum-historical reenactment at which a wealthy eccentric intends to unveil a piece of historical correspondence that sheds light on the mystery of whether King Richard III was really the vile murderer of his young kinsmen. Hijinks ensue.
The detective, Jacqueline Kirby, is very annoying, but I liked everyone else, and the story was great. This was my first foray into the story of Richard III, and it's fascinating and clearly explained (it's complicated, so this is no minor accomplishment). Peters also has a bit of fun with the murder-mystery weekend trope, which she does well. I won't be reading any more of the Kirby series (ref. my first comment), but would definitely read something from one of her others.
So I really liked The Seventh Sinner for its setting and loved the idea of a sexy middle age detective librarian so much that I wanted to continue. However, this book didn’t match the first. Thomas is our barrator and he’s trying to sleep with Jacqueline through the whole book, which feels really gross. I did like learning about this bit of history.
An English house party with a bunch of Richard the Third supporters and the promise of the unveiling of a letter that clears Richard of the murders of the young princes. Of course there is trouble. An excellent read.
Silly and fluffy mystery.
Ein Alltime Favorite. Lese ich immer wieder gerne. :) Unterhaltsamer als Elizabeth Peter's Krimis wird es einfach nicht.
Good cozy historical mystery
Not as good as her Amelia Peabody series (which is understandable, given that she's an Egyptologist).
Clue (1985) except with British people in costumes.Audiobook read by Grace Conlin = ✓
