https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/589141.The_Bog_People


I can't even remember the first time I picked up this book.. I hold Prof Glob responsible for my becoming an archaeologist. My husband holds him responsible for being dragged to museums throught Europe to see leathery dead people.
These bodies were found in bogs, mostly in Denmark.
The acidic water in the bogs preserved the bodies so well that people who found them thought they were recent murder victims and often called the police!
Except for the darkened skin from the tannins in the water, some of these people look like they're just sleeping.
Even their brains and eyeballs were preserved.
From the objects found with the bodies, experts were able to determine that many of these people were ritual human sacrifices to appease the fertility goddess so she would provide an abundant harvest.
I remember reading this as a kid.
I didn't remember anything about it so I re-read it.
(sadly an all too common occurrence in library books that have interesting photos) Luckily I think I only missed one page of writing.
This is also an older book so I would like to see updated research on this subject matter.
I only gave it four stars cause it was an older book so not sure how up to date the theories are and I added it to my best reads pile.
The photos of the nearly perfectly preserved people are fascinating.
These semi-serene countenances, preserved for thousands of years under peat and now carefully displayed under glass, have made the bog people some of the most popular exhibits in the greatest museums of the world.Glob’s minute study of the remains of these bodies will interest those who find autopsies entertaining.
Glob doesn’t make strong links between the body on the dissecting table and the world of Iron Age Germania.
It turns out that the bodies themselves give us few clues as to who these people were, how they lived, and how they came to be buried in a bog.
One of my (weird) dreams is to see mummies and bog bodies lying on their museum beds.
When I was a lot younger I watched a documentary about bog bodies which made me utterly fascinated with the subject.
Although she still makes me kind of sad and the thought of barging into the chapel and taking a picture is inappropriate.Edited 31.7.2012 Well, it was definitely interesting, even though I'm still leaning towards Egyptian mummies in my interests regarding creepy wrinkled people (British Museum, I finally conquered you during the summer of 2011).
As I read, my question was answered, but the writing was a bit dry, and because of when this book was published (1960's) the pictures were all in black and white and scientific methods of studying these people are not as advanced as they are today.
These days one can go online and find much more up-to-date information on this subject.
I found a National Geographic article from just last year--more accurate information and much better pictures.
That's why this book is just ok for me even though in it's time it would have been quite the popular read.
I came to this through re-reading some of Seamus Heaney's poetry, who is fascinated by the bog people, and decided that I wanted to know more too. I have to admit I skipped over the numerous soil analysis passages, but apart from that I found this a very engaging book about something that both repels and amazes me (some of the 2,000 year old bodies were so well preserved that they still had fingerprints!). I also think that Mr Glob has the perfect name for a bog body expert, and that made me quite fond of him from the beginning.
Dear Professor Glob,Unfortunately, I was disappointed in your book. I regret having to tell you because you obviously worked very hard on it. The subject was fascinating, but the text read like an autopsy report. Sadly, it only became exciting for a brief time in the last chapter. Better luck next time.Very Truly Yours,Neil
We have so much to learn from the bog people
Bellaghy, nella contea di Derry, è una cittadina pervasa dall'odore affumicato della torba.
A Bellaghy c'è anche il museo di Seamus Heaney, che è il motivo per cui ho letto The Bog People di P.V. Glob, testo di ispirazione per North, il quarto libro di Heaney.
Una famiglia del luogo mi ha offerto il caffè; erano due signori anziani in visita con la figlia e il genero.
La torba era parte di tutti loro.Ecco una parte del racconto dell'estrazione dell'uomo di Tollund: The soft surface of the bog made it impossible to bring up a crane up to the spot, and everything had to be done by hand.
The bog people comprise a fascinating aspect of naturally formed mummies from the Iron-Age. P.V. Glob introduces the Tollund and Grauballe men in the first two chapters before expanding to other individuals found in and outside of Denmark.
It is a compelling argument; one I'll enjoy investigating with the more recent book, "Bog Bodies Uncovered: Solving Europe's Ancient Mystery" by Miranda Aldhouse-Green.
The chapters are well organized and with each, Glob builds a foundation of understanding and appreciation for bog people.
Additionally, this book is one that Aldhouse-Green references in her own book, so I was anxious to read Glob's book first before reading anymore of "Bob Bodies Uncovered."
The book was in fairly good condition, and on intriguing enough a topic for me to be eager to read it and see just what new information I might learn.As previous reviewers have noted, this book is charming from the outset.
The author wrote this book by way of offering it up to them - a long letter of sorts.
It's less speculative than the other book I read on the topic, but is charming for its straightforward approach.The pictures would've benefited from a color release, but are startlingly vivid even in black and white.
Read this as part of my research for university. Really insightful but the pictures were so grim 😩
i can’t wait to be an archeologist
V. THE BOG PEOPLE: IRON-AGE MAN PRESERVED.
As it turns out, the Iron Age described in this book by its author, a noted archeologist, spans 400+/- years around the birth of Christ.
Written as sort of a scientific detective story, the author provides an engrossing and reliable account of the religion, culture and daily life of the European Iron Age as presented through the evidence of bodies found in the bogs of northern Europe.
Although the narrative concentrates on the bodies found in the bogs in Denmark, it also tells the story of similar findings throughout the rest of Europe.
Anyplace where you find bogs you will – ultimately – find preserved bodies.
This book was written in 1965 and has an introduction by Elizabeth Wayland Barber and Paul T.
This was a fascinating account of preserved bodies and artifacts found in Danish bogs.
It describes initial finds and how people assumed they were modern murder victims.
One of the great aspects of this book is the large amount of photos showing not only the bodies, but artifacts and bogs as well.
This was a short book about Bog People, I have become a lot more interested in the topic and this book has sparked my curiosity.
La cuestión es que La gente de la ciénaga me ha sorprendido por su claridad, su manera fluida de contar y describir algo que un principio pudiera parecer árduo: el descubrimiento de cuerpos de más de 2000 años en las turberas del norte de Europa.
Para mí, que soy profana en este tipo de cuestiones, leer el libro ha sido una agradable aventura que me ha llevado a entender un poco más a esas gentes que vivieron hace tantos siglos, y que todavía están presentes en nuestras culturas.
La gente de la ciénaga se eleva desde sus tumbas para explicarnos el por qué de sus cuerpos incorruptos, de sus misteriosas muertes, el cómo su cultura permitió que ellos acabaran en esos lugares.
Glob writes a good introduction for those beginners interested in archaeology.
His clear explanations of the science and his obvious passion for the subject make this book a pleasurable read.
It suffers a little bit because of its age, but considering it was written almost 50 years ago, it stands up to the test of time well.
He occasionally used terms that have fallen out of favor such as "primitive," but his overall treatment of bog people makes it clear what he thinks of these ancient people.Sometimes his obsession with describing the Danish countryside was grating, however his analysis and expertise were well worth it.
I loved this book. It was so excellently written. The author has such a way with words. He painted such a picture that even if the book didn't have photographs included, you would have been able to imagine it perfectly. Most of the book is about the people discovered in the bogs of Denmark, but there is one chapter about the people discovered in bogs all over Europe. I would highly recommend this book for anyone interested in archeology and history.
I thought the morbid topic was interesting, so I picked it up for some fun. The writing is dry, and I definitely assume to be outdated by now. Despite the inaccurate information and focus on the bodies being sacrificial offerings (Those masculine and feminine pieces of wood made me lose it.), I still am glad I picked this up. Anyways, who can hate a book with pictures (excluding spider pictures or infectious diseases pics).
I found this book in my house so I read it. It was written in 1971 and reads like it. It is full of facts and place names that can be difficult to wade through. Overall the story of the bog people is interesting and unexpected. My copy had lots of photographic plates which enriched the experience. If you are interested in the bog people there are several documentaries that would be more worth your time.
An excellent small book dealing with the many bog mummies that have been found and scientifically examined. It includes an overview of the history of the people who are generally found in the bogs (usually about 2,000 years old). Very interesting!
I happened upon this book and found the title and author’s name appealing. If like me you aren’t super into archaeology, this is still a very enjoyable read. If that’s your thing then I would certainly recommend it.
interesting read. Music by Inward Circles about bog people caught my attention and lead to this book.
This is astounding stuff! A rather old book, but still readable and it has amazing pictures! The anthropologist in me just loves it.
The Bog People: Iron Age Man Preserved (Paperback) by Peter Vilhelm Glob
A survey of the bodies found preserved in the peat bogs of northern Europe and the British Isles dating back to ancient times.
really interesting and the letter in the introduction made me laugh
