https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48464.A_Good_Man_is_Hard_to_Find_and_Other_Stories
An exemplary short story collection & very likely at the zenith in most "all-time" lists.
The elements of which practically overflow in each short story: the immortal clashes between races, between sexes, between ages...
Sentences are overstuffed with a hidden meaning, & there is absolutely no real key to unlock each mysterious element or eerie undertone.After the first story, the stories linger on insignificance much to long, but this is quickly forgiven as the last four stories (A Circle of Fire, A Late Encounter with the Enemy, Good Country People [my personal winner], and The Displaced Person) in the book match, if not surpass, the first one, the very very good "A Good Man...".
This stuff is twisted, sparse, clipped, dark, doomy, funny, dramatic, Southern, angry, sexy, super Catholic, death-haunted, maniacial, bizarre, possibly racist, apparently desperate, fatalistic, existential, dreary, ugly, fetid, frenzied, morbid, lax, stern, prepossessing, unforgiving, unrelenting, anti-everything, aged, "retro", haunting, parabolic, anecdotal, moral, redemptive, sublime, reasoned, feverish, dreamlike, unsparing, sparse, I said that one already, seductive, craftsmanlike, worried, extremely well concieved, taut, brooding, polarizing, scary, and powerful.I literally didn't know one could write like this until I heard her do it.
I didn't know that the human mind would concieve of this until she did.
Exiled From Eden I don’t always have the aptitude and the patience (paradoxically) for short fiction, but O’Connor has a way of connecting all her stories by setting them in a landscape that refuses to leave you. The stories and the unease stay with you as you finish each grotesque piece, building up layer upon layer of despair until you thirst for an almost religious release from it all.Peopled with the religious, the good and the moral -- trying to come to terms with a god-less world, grappli
But this apparent simplicity is misleading, for it operates on many levels — showcasing the power, absurdity, and danger of religion; and also its hypnotic beauty and irresistible splendor.While the stories are deeply religious and derive their grotesqueness and tension from religion, a religious sensibility is in no way required for the reader to stand in awe of and grapple with the cold, godless and essentially lonely reality as presented to the protagonists.

My review, as well as my other thoughts on reading, also can be found on my blog.Coated with cynicism, the stories of A Good Man is Hard to Find question the possibility of redemption in a society nearly rotten.
Almost all the stories grotesque and make strange Biblical narratives, from the drowning of demonic pigs to angels in the wilderness.
O’Connor’s stark descriptions of the South are breathtaking, and her ability to create sympathetic but unlikable characters is impressive.
Aside from the titular story, favorites included “The River,” “A Temple of the Holy Ghost,” “A Circle in the Fire,” and “Good Country People.”
Good Country People: A young man shows up at Mrs. Hopewell's house selling bibles and takes a shine to her daughter, Joy.This was another great story that reminded me of a Jim Thompson, Savage Night.The Displaced Person: A priest hires a displaced person to work on Mrs. McIntyre's farm.
How will her existing hands take it when he's more capable than them?The ending of this one really drives home my point that it's very likely that Jim Thompson was a Flannery O'Connor fan.A Good Man is Hard to Find is a powerful collection of tales by an overlooked mistress of the form.
Seeing as I have no fear of the wrath of an angry god, why did this book affect me so deeply, leaving me with a stunned expression staring at a blank wall for several minutes after each little story had wrapped up?
My only conclusion is that, aside from being hypnotized to terror by O'Connor's seductive prose, I must have some residual, albeit repressed fears of the religion instilled in me at a young age.
Those "tales of terror" from the preacher's mouth must still rattle around in my subconscious from time to time, which would explain why the horror movies that have most scared me in my life have always centered on demons and damnation.
Horrible horrible horrible, particularly the first two. Trust me, I'm not saying this just for effect. They take 'dark' to a whole new level - like staring down into a bottomless pit. Yet absolutely brilliant, more of a review later (maybe) once I've recuperated.
A Stroke of Good Fortune  is the story of another selfish woman, one of modest origins who tries to escape from the perceived prison of the cycle of marriage and children and taking care of the land and of the family, choosing instead a form of living for yourself.
Yet there is hope still for the old man, even at this late stage in his life: "Mr Head stood very still and felt the action of mercy touch him again but this time he knew that there were no words in the world that could name it.
Joyce Carol Oates says (in a review in the New York Times)no postwar and posthumous literary reputation of the twentieth century, with the notable exception of Sylvia Plath, has grown more rapidly and dramatically than that of Flannery O’Connor, whose work has acquired a canonical status since her death in 1964.And she compares Flannery’s rep with that of Carson McCullers and Truman Capote who, sez Joyce, have gone down.Which surprised me.
With Flannery O’Connor I’m in the most uncomfortable position of greatly enjoying and admiring a writer who I know absolutely I don’t understand, and further, that if I did, I wouldn’t like any part of what she was telling me.
Such a fantastic way she has in drawing her stories.
So vivid, varied characters, in all these stories regardless of the social strata of the people they are all searching for the same thing, grace.
Knowing this author's background leads to a better understanding of her stories.
Her long illness, she suffered with lupus, her Catholicism in the bible banging South and her people watching are all present in Jr stories.
I am in awe of her talent, the symbolism contained in these stories is frankly brilliant, she even uses the weather and the sun to bring home the message being conveyed.
I’m usually all on board with the creepy, crazy, what-have-you, but the difference here is that nobody is even alive before they’re dead.
Shit happens, yeah, and the world is a rough rough place, but it has real human people and whatever it is we call a soul, it’s there.
It may have a good enough dose of evil but it’s not shrunk down with hate.
There was this other review that said O’Connor believes in God but not so much in people, and all things considered that’s exactly it.
The thing is, I need the opposite.
The most appropriate image that I can think of is that scene in The Wizard of Oz when the tornado is ravaging the Kansas farm of Dorothy's parents and then picture her singing "Somewhere Over the Rainbow" while the bicycle-riding wicked witch is smiling at her.
It is up to you, the reader, how you can transform your life to put colors in your own rainbow.O'Connor's short stories are different from the ones that I so far enjoyed.
In contrast, above the beauty of her prose and the darkness of her stories, O'Connor's strength is on unpredicability of her plot and the twist that she presents towards the end.
This particular disillusioned, Roman-Catholic-raised southern-boy can’t argue with that.It’s obvious that O’Connor is an influence of Burke's, and in the sixty years that have passed between the writing of his novel and O’Connor’s excellent collection of short stories A Good Man is Hard to Find, little has changed.With a serrated saw blade of an eye for satire, O’Connor goes about dismantling the men and women of her Southern American surroundings, showing their grotesque ideas of religion and behavior as the petty, mean-spirited shams that they are.
A review in song form (thank you Sufjan): http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FlcrHE...*****The short story is quickly becoming my favorite fiction genre (unlike Jason here who “just [doesn’t] have time for [them] anymore").
The title story “A Good Man Is Hard to Find,” is not at all what I expected.
My favorite story in the collection is “Good Country People.” In this story, a self-righteous woman who happens to have an artificial leg meets a man whom she thinks is a simple bible salesman (salt of the earth!).
In the end we discover that people are not what they seem; even good country folks.
E di bambine, e di ragazzine)Camminiamo, un mattino, su marciapiedi di città, verso una grossa colazione:"Cosa ti ricordi di quello che hai letto di Flannery O'Connor?""Ricordo che mi piacevano molto non solo i racconti ma anche la sua figura...
A un certo punto racconta che, arrivata a casa dopo aver comprato L'idiota di Dostoevskij, la madre le disse: 'solo una come te poteva comprare un libro con un titolo del genere!' [...] Un'altra volta racconta che da bambina aveva insegnato a un pollo a camminare all'indietro: 'e c'ero anche io, lì vicino al pollo, a incoraggiarlo...
Hepsinin ana teması bana sorarsanız, kitabın isminden de anlaşılacağı gibi karakterlerin arasından neredeyse hiç iyi insan çıkmaması.
Daha doğrusu öyle ince bir çizgide ilerliyor ki bu ayırım, bazı öykülerde fark ediyoruz, çok doğal insanlık hallerimiz bile bazen kötülüğün kıyısında gezinen bir karakter yapabilir bizi.
İyi İnsan Bulmak Zor, benim kategorime göre onlardan.
Özellikle “Yapma Zenci” ve “Ateşte Bir Çember” öyküleri oldukça gerilim yüklüydü, okurken gerilim filmi izliyor gibi hissettim kendimi.
Yabancısı olduğumuz coğrafyaları öyle bir resmetmiş ki -evet resmetmiş diyorum çünkü muazzam betimlemiş, anlatmış- film izler gibi gözünüzde canlanıyor her şey.
Karakterler iyi ve kötü olma arasında direnme özelliğine sahipler, bir türlü tam emin olamıyoruz nasıl olduklarından.
I like the dense, loaded writing that takes weeks of thought and discussion to fully unpack.
Her characters are so three-dimensional it’s like they spring up in your head, fully alive.
Her characters are good, upstanding country people who feel reassured by their habits and place in the world.
But by the end, Flannery O’Connor shows you (more like punches you in the face with the fact) that the joke’s actually on you and her characters both.
The world of Flannery O’Connor is a brutal, violent place where no one is ever safe or set apart – especially not her readers and ESPECIALLY not her characters.One of my favorite stories in this collection is 
Flannery O’connor, Amerikan Gotiği’nin öncesine, Büyük Buhran’ın içine doğmuş; ülkesinin aidiyet kurduğu ya da kuramadığı taraflarına öykülerinde kinayeli şekilde yer vermiş, yazarlığını ‘ayna’ gibi kullanabilmiş yetenekli yazarlardan bir tanesi.
Hayatının son yıllarını dindar bir münzevi olarak yaşamış Oconnor’dan bu tarz öyküler okumak beni şaşırtmadı ancak dini alt metinlerin insanların yozlaşması üzerinden aktarılması (haliyle ortaya dinin yozlaştırıcı etkisini de açıkça koyduğundan) beni biraz şaşırttı.Tüm öykülerde Amerikan kırsalındaki içine kapanmış, o meşhur rüyaya ucundan köşesinden bile dahil olamamış, cahil ve yoksun insanlar başrolde.
30 sayfalık bir hikayede okuyucu alıp, bu kadar başka bir coğrafyanın gerçekliğine güm diye bırakmasını kesinlikle başarılı buldum.En beğendiğim öykülerden bahsetmem gerekirse: ‘İyi İnsan Bulmak Zor’, ‘Yapma Zenci’, ‘Ateşte Bir Çember’, ‘Temiz Köylüler’ ve ‘Mülteci’.
Bazen de bununla birlikte yazarın hayat hikayesi ve içinde bulunduğu yapıyla ilişkilenme şeklini bilmek okumayı ve anlamı kolaylaştırıyor.İyi İnsan Bulmak zor bu iki koşulun birlikte belirleyici olduğu ve yapıya hakim olunduğunda adeta edebiyat şölenine dönen bir okuma oldu benim için.Kitap on ayrı ( ayrı mı dedim) öyküden oluşuyor ve her biri için ayrı ayrı değerlendirmede bulunmaktansa O’Connor edebiyatı üzerine konuşmayı tercih ederim.Amerika’nın güneyinde adına ‘İncil kuşağı’ denilen bölgede ( Georgia) yaşamış, kendisi de inançlı( Katolik) bir yazar O’Connor.
Bu çivisi çıkmış dünyaya cehalet, riyakarlık, ikiyüzlü ahlak anlayışları ve ellerinde İncilleri ile cevap olmaya çalışan redneck’in ayarı bozulmuştur ki kitaba adını veren İyi İnsan Bulmak Zor öyküsünün baş kötüsünün( sanki babaanne iyi bir insan da) lakabının Ayarsız olmasının elbette bir anlamı vardır.
Spirituel motifleri okumayı her zaman sevmişimdir, ki O'connor İyi insan Bulmak Zor'da bu motif oluşumlarını kendi inanç algısı doğrultusunda, Amerikan Güney kırsal yaşamı doğrultusunda kuran, insanları, karanlık bir anlatım doğrultusunda kuran gerilim hissinin çok iyi verildiğine inandığım bir öykü kitabı oldu.Kitaptaki aşırılık hissinin fazla olmasının okuru bazen yormasına ve sabrını tüketmesine rağmen edebiyat seven bir okurun muhakkak göz atması gerektiğini düşünüyorum.10/8,5

I read the first short story in this collection by Flannery O'Connor and sat back, astonished.
You'll know then exactly where you stand with O'Connor's stories after that first one has slammed into you like a hammer to the back of the head.In A Good Man is Hard to Find, a family prepares for and sets off for a vacation in Florida.
It begins as one sort of story and ends as quite another and it's one of the most brilliant things I've ever read.
Each story is finely honed and reads as surprisingly contemporary, for all it's written about a rural South that is long gone.
The New York Times, in a review of O'Connor's stories, referred to her as an American Guy de Maupassant.
This is an apt description.
O'Connor's stories paint a dark yet spot-on picture of the human condition.
She takes the quaint out of southern living and shines a spotlight on the ignorance and prejudice with a razor-sharp and truly wicked sense of humor.
Reading her stories left me amazed by her literary ability yet also a bit nauseated.
What depresses me the most is that current events seem to bear out O'Connor's less than flattering assessment of human nature.
edebi olarak oldukça doyurucu ve bilmediğim bi coğrafyadan o kadar bildik insanlar ki bambaşka bir yerden bu insanlık durumları ancak bu kadar güzel anlatılır da bu kadar tanış gelir insana.. iyi kitap okumanın verdiği mutluluk yanında sizi öykülere çekip insanlık adına tersyüz edip atması da cabası. Bi de güzel bi Platonov tadı ki mis gibi...
The last story titled "The Displaced Person", did provide a wrap-up of events toward the end which gave the reader a sense of an ending.
(01:23:00—01:50:40) A transient shiftlet visits a farm, marries daughter, "borrows" car to take bride on honeymoon, and (view spoiler)[abandons the daughter at a cafe.
Upon returning the cousins describe what they saw to the younger girl who (view spoiler)[misunderstands their explanation and comes to the conclusion that the body is in fact a temple of the holy ghost.
(view spoiler)[The Polish refugee is killed by an "accident." Everyone leaves and Mrs. McIntyre suffers nervous breakdown.
THE RIVER (1 star)A little boy of 4 or 5 years is taken by his babysitter, Mrs. Cronin, to a preacher who is to wash away the child’s pain in the river, the “River of Life, of God and of God’s Blood”.
(view spoiler)[They were now both happy to live where they did (hide spoiler)].Thank goodness I did not give up on the stories too soon!
The boys (view spoiler)[start a fire and the reader understands that the house and property will burn (hide spoiler)].
Although I’m not quite sure I read them the same way O’Connor intended.
I’m a firm believer that almost anyone, at the right time and under the right circumstances, might stop, look around and say, 'Wow, I’m a colossal douchebag.’ I need to quit being such an ass.
I’m sure not everyone will like it.Anyway, my two favorite stories in the collection were the riveting and moving, "A Good Man is Hard to Find" and the funny, twisted and ironic "Good Country People." In fact, "Good Country People" is one of my all-time favorite short stories.
I said aloud "Flannery's two for two," meaning the first two stories vividly pulled me along and ended viciously/awesomely.
Things picked up for me toward the end with the one about the old general that echoes Faulkner's Nobel speech about the old verities and the one with the girl with the wooden leg and the "innocent" bible salesman.
The long last story seemed to me to overextend the Poles versus WT/Ninjas conflict, and ended predictably for me.
Haven't read for years and deserves a long review, but it was so awesome to read again. So amazing. This combination of the spiritual and crazy. Grotesque, southern gothic, sardonic humor, deftly hilarious observations. Grace occurs in the oddest and most surprising moments.
