https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13536860-fifty-shades-freed
Welcome back, fellow masochists (or those of you who simply wish to forgo the hassle of reading this crap and opt for my poignant reviews instead). I wish I could say Fifty Shades Freed met my expectations, but...well, honestly, I don't know what the fuck that was. I don't know how I feel. I don't know what to think. The only thing I know is that, usually after finishing a trilogy/series, I'm lost. My brothers end up finding me curled up in a ball somewhere and they laugh and call me names, mos
I'm sorry, but hearing about how Christian inserted a butt plug into Ana's 'bottom' made me both uncomfortable and highly amused.
Ana asks Christian who cleans the toys (this is after they've used the aforementioned butt plug), and he informs her it's either him, a submissive, or Mrs. Jones.
When you read scenes like that over the course of several books, it really comes as no surprise when you discover that Ana has missed several appointments with her gyno and apparently completely forgotten about her birth control shot.
In the second book Christian had ostensibly let go of that life, and was struggling to let go of his issues with control.
Together with "Holy Fuck" and "I love this man" they make up a good portion of the book.And Ana didn't sit much better with me this time around, either.
It seemed to me that after 2 books of hearing how she can't believe someone that physically beautiful could love her that it would be toned down a bit.
How do you ever expect to build a marriage with him?")It all seemed so over the top, almost hokey, all surface declarations of this all-consuming passionate love and I wasn't really buying it this time around.
By the end of Fifty Shades Freed, not only are they closer to one another, but they're also more confident in themselves.
In the final installment of the Fifty Shades series, Ana and Christian are married, but that doesn't mean that it's all roses and sunshine for the happy couple.
But their sexual interactions are beautifully interwoven with humorous and somber plot points, character arcs, and the infamous email exchange between Ana and Christian (love those!).After reading Fifty Shades Freed, I kept trying to decide which of the three books I loved best.
sort of.*I received Fifty Shades Freed as a complimentary copy for review from the publisher.
If you have low self-esteem, it's perfectly okay to lose your virginity to a stalker, uber-controlling guy who gets off on kinky-f*ckery.
And you know this because...well, you know...you embarked on this relationship after having signed a non-disclosure agreement regarding your relationship with said stalker-uber-control-freak, and after you've studied a contract regarding his kinky f*ckery and what he would do to you as his submissive.
So, if you, like me, like TOO DAMN MANY of us, find yourself with a set of the FSoG trilogy you no longer want, I've compiled a helpful list of ways you can re-use, re-purpose or recycle them!
Step Four: Cut up about twenty pages of any of the FSoG books into 1-2 inch strips.Step Five: For the first layer, wet the strips with water only, and drape them over your butt cheeks.
Step Six: Now pile on some layers of the glue mix.
MAKE YOUR OWN VALENTINE'S DAY CARDSStep One: Paint a sheet whichever color you want on each side.Step Two: Once it dries, add a message.
I can’t get enough Fifty.I have read a lot of mixed reviews for Fifty Shades Freed, the third novel in the Fifty Shades trilogy.
LOL)Christian and Ana make a lot of progress in this novel, but they also suffer a few setbacks.
And, I absolutely adored the epilogue and the bonus chapters at the end!!!E.L. James - Thank you so much for writing this hot, crazy, mind-blowing story!
It has been an absolute pleasure reading Ana and Christian’s love story.The Fifty Shades trilogy is UN-FREAKING-BELIEVABLY GOOD!This series is HILARIOUS.
I just don’t see that happening, but hey, I never thought I’d read and love a BDSM novel either.
With some body out there threatening them and Christian's own fucked up past, wedded bliss maybe but a dream.Although I am not the biggest fan of the other books, I did find them strangely addicting and was quite looking forward to Fifty Shades Freed but I am very disappointed.
STAY!Ana: It is not that I am abandoning you for milk, we have just run out, you know I love you *gives soulful look*Christian: MINE STAY!
It seems instead of giving Fifty Shades Freed a plot, it has just been filled out with sex.I don't normally give such negative reviews and I try to say something positive, something that I liked, but I have found it hard for this book.
By now, I'm not entirely sure what to say about this book. Aside from now Ana and Christian are now married, travel to fantastic places for their honeymoon and someone is still trying to do both of them harm, not much has changed. I'm really tired of Christian's over-protectiveness, fast. It's beyond annoying and he's no where near as sexy now as I thought he was in the beginning. I can't understand why anyone would think Christian's behavior is sexy. Troubled? Tortured? Stalkerish? Childish? He
It's like Ana and Christian finally become the terrific couple we thought they could become in the first book.
I won't give too much away, but Christian becomes likable again, and Ana tolerable.This really should have been just one book, and only one!
Unacceptable.And I understand re-using certain words and phrases throughout a book, it can drive a point home, reconnect you with a certain feeling the author wants to convey, even be funny or sweet, reveal something.
This book really reminds me Breaking Dawn, in that like Bella, Ana really and finally comes into her own and takes some control in her life.
The book starts out with Ana and Christian on their honeymoon.
Christian is determined to give Ana the rainbows and butterflies she wants....and she gets it the entire book.
Christian loves Ana probably more than life itself, yet she doubts it all the time.
We still have Fifty keeping secrets from Ana, ALL THE TIME!
Oh, and Ana calls red....I was a little afraid to post a review for this book.
I wanted to give the book more than three stars because of the ending, but I didn't.
Who knows, I may like the third book even more the second time I read it.
You want me to believe that this successful man is "broken" himself because his mother was a "Crack whore" (fuck you for constantly calling someone that just by the way - the constant reference to his mother as the crack whore pissed me off just as much as the shoddy workmanship and bullshit pretentious over-use of puffed up vocabulary did)but I will NEVER accept that being broken is an acceptable reason to use people like toilet paper - something our supposedly irresistible Mr. Grey even admits to.
Awesome - so a bunch of people read about kinky sex and now the riding crop and butt plug industry is booming.
And then, just when I thought it was over...along comes an Epilogue.Ana and Christian frolicking in a meadow with their son, while she pregnant with their daughter.
Poor Ana had a scary labor and delivery!But it doesn't end there.'Cause where's the fun in that?No, you get re-read the first chapter of Fifty Shades of Grey...from Christian's point of view.God!
Poor little Ana shouldn't have driven the incredibly dangerous jet ski.Arghhhhh!And, naturally, Ana simpers and rushes to comfort the crazy bastard.It was like that for the entire book!Ana, you deliberately disobeyed me, by leaving the house to have drinks with your friend.*simper, simper*Oh, my poor, poor, Fifty!
Looking at the other reviews here for the continuation of what can only be called the word-like remnants of a loose bowel movement that doesn't even have the decency to be original fiction only further confirms that the world is ready for the zombie apocalypse.
My review for the first "book" is applicable here as well, though as far as I'm aware this "book" picks up past where my summary ended.
But you all enjoy.My Fifty Shades of Grey review.
My Fifty Shades Darker review.
My review of the Bundle.
It includes some important points I didn't include in these reviews.
I love them so much that not only do I have all 3 books on my Kindle but as soon as I finished reading Fifty Shades Freed earlier today I went online and ordered all 3 in paperback.Now I’m sitting here trying to put into words how much I love the Fifty Shades of Grey Trilogy without sounding like a babbling idiot but I don’t think that’s going to happen.
A couple of things that I loved about the books and had me laughing out loud were the emails between Christian and Ana. When the emails first appeared in Shades of Grey I made the mistake of only reading the main body of the email and not the signature line.
4.5 I'm yours. I will always be yours Stars SpoilersFirst Read Feb. 16th 2015Reread Sept. 25, 2015Re-reread 6/3/2017 What a Awesome conclusion to the Fifty Shades trilogy. So bittersweet that it had to end, but Christian and Ana deserve their happily ever after. God knows they worked hard for it! IF you have not read the first two books in this series you really need to, to understand this book. They all go together and should be read in order.  "So beautiful," he says as he deftly undoes the fi
Moments in which I feel she should have tore into him a little more , fought a little harder , but if she came out the gate kicking ass and taking no prisoners I don't think she would be the real Ana. I love how she starts to really get some confidence in herself in this book and in her relationship with Christian!"You're right to be nervous, Gia, because right now your work on this project hangs in the balance.
I like how he keeps track of all the drinks she’s had during the day, even at times when he wasn’t even there.* Still compares his wife to his crack whore mother.
Let’s have elevator sex while we’re at it.* Christian completely loses his shit when Ana tells him she’s pregnant.
Might want to express some fucking gratitude there, Jimbo.I am getting sick of this shit:“My inner goddess has her sequins on and is warming up do dance the rumba.”“My inner goddess is wearing her gladiatrix outfit and is taking no prisoners.”Her inner goddess also likes to read Charles Dickens and Jane Eyre in her spare time.
I love this series! No matter how many times I read it, it never gets old! I don’t think this book needs a real review. I’m just going to say that I love it, and I loved listening to the audiobook!   “I want your world to begin and end with me.”
The steam is a perfect blend of erotic and romantic, Ana and Christian’s chemistry so palpable and sexy that you cannot stop turning the pages, no matter how hard you try to set the book down.
That theme is unconditional love, something Ana has for Christian and continually demonstrates to him no matter how unsure she is of herself or the situation.
Be prepared to laugh to the point of tears.Freed in ComparisonWithout sharing any spoilers, I will just say that this final installment in the series shows all of the above in a really satisfying, bittersweet way.
This is a review for the overall story—all three books1st book - 5 stars Loved it!
2nd book - 4 stars Liked it a lot!
3rd book - 1 1/2 to 2 stars Huge disappointment.
I loved it until the story "jumped shark" (went down hill) in what will be the third book.
I can only hope the author takes the time to make some huge plot changes and releases a better third book than what she produced for her online version.
Now that it has arrived and the weaknesses in the plot and editing were not addressed as I had hoped, I find myself disappointed and surprised.
I couldn’t love Christian any more if I tried, and I am big enough to admit that I am just glowing green with envy of Ana :) - For the most part this book was not as intense all the time as the other two but what was most wonderful, after watching these two overcome some pretty major obstacles to be together, was getting to watch them learn to be husband and wife and function in the real world together.
While Christian is just as mercurial as ever, at times I did feel for Ana in this one.
From what I understand, Fifty Shades of Grey was originally titled, Master of the Universe and was Twilight fan fiction.
I can promise you because of the popularity of the Fifty Shades trilogy, you’ll see more of these stories blatantly based on fan fiction being published in the coming years that will most likely sell well.
Writing and selling fan fiction based on Stephenie Meyer’s Twilight series isn’t free domain and it gets sketchy because of the issue of copyright.
This trilogy is more like riding in a bumper car at an amusement park.Fifty Shades Freed is the perfect example of every stereotypical semi-erotic romance.
Shall we start with the good?1.
The bonus at the end from Christian's POV was entertaining.
I would say skip the book and just go for the bonus.3.
The emails are still fun.Now the not so good:1.
I feel like I don't have a right to complain about too much sex in a book labeled erotica, but geez, enough already!
Ana has a thought that Christian disagrees with, he gets mad at her, she gets mad at him, he gives her sexy eyes, she melts into a puddle and they get it on.
I'm not a Christian Grey fan.
The only thing I’d like to caution readers about with the Fifty Shades Trilogy—it will literally ruin other books for you.So many readers glance at the back cover this book and expect an erotic novel about BDSM.
Fifty Shades is probably the best romance I’ve ever read.
It’s impossible to put into words in a review what this book will make you feel.
And Ana epitomizes the definition of inner strength.
I’ve hijacked another star and I’m giving 6 stars to Fifty Shades Freed.
I RECOMMEND (in shouty caps) the Fifty Shades Trilogy to everyone who loves an amazing love story, because that’s really what this book is.
“I want your world to begin and end with me.” Those flashbacks in the beginning of this book confused me a lot. The writing is different, too. Ana and Christian are on their honeymoon after the wedding, which isn't mentioned at first until the flashback comes. I didn't like the way the story was told this way. It wasn't smooth and easily confused the readers who couldn't remember much about the ending of book two. “I think you can only be truly mad at someone you really love.” Anyway, this book
Those flashbacks in the beginning of this book confused me a lot.
I kind of liked it when Ana stands up for herself and fights, even though it seems very stupid, but it's her actual development that I want to see since Fifty Shades of Grey.Besides the unnecessary bickering, some of Christian's reactions are awful, especially (view spoiler)[when he finds out Ana is pregnant.
Although they should have got their HEA since the last book, but it's not too late to give them in the very last part of Fifty Shades Freed.
This is, like, lame:Q: Christian, you are the state lottery, the cure for cancer, and the three wishes from Aladdin's lamp all rolled into one (c)  And a burger.
Never forget the burger.
“Who cleans these toys?” I ask as I follow him over to the chest.
(c)  Using sex toys used by someone else?
Q: You’re the best therapy.
Just what one needs during sex.
THERAPY!
My subconscious slams down her Complete Works of Charles Dickens, leaps up from her armchair, and puts her hands on her hips.
The subconscious could have done full bodybuilding routines with that one.
Christian using Ana's ponytail to pull her head back3.
Christian constantly treating Ana like a child11.
Christian grabbing Ana's chin to hold her head still18.
Dear God, doesn't she own another piece of clothing?"Oh Christian...my possessive, jealous, control freak Christian" <---Ana, those are not endearing qualities and if you had even an iota of experience you would know that.
Ana, being in fear of your husband hurting you is not a good thing.I was beyond infuriated when he burst into her office at work and referred to her as "an asset" and mentioned that surprise visits help "keep wives in their place".
These were one of the first sets of books I read when I first started reading series and were a HUGE part of what inspired me to start reading and blogging again but at the time that I read them, I still wasn’t writing real reviews.
These books have made my heart burst and break, made me laugh and cry… It is definitely one of my favorite series ever.
The depth to which the characters are taken and described is beyond words.A wonderful blend of HOT HOT HOT kinky fuckery and a deep emotional journey and love story… this is one of those series that will stay with you forever!!!I HIGHLY, HIGHLY, HIGHLY recommend these books.
I inhaled it and was greatly entertained, but I also found myself cringing a lot and was more uncomfortable with Ana and Christian’s relationship than I have ever been before.After reading this book I realized what an incredible journey the author took us on.
I ended the book completely satisfied and feeling like they were finally headed toward a healthy, happy relationship.
Where Christian once felt like a troubled, dark man, he just came off as scary and disturbed here.
It was not a pretty picture.This whole book felt like a roller coaster.
But when the relationship is like Ana and Christian’s, it gets exhausting.
L JamesCC: Christian GreySubject: A Review for Fifty Shades DarkerDate: 22nd February, 2012, 12.23From: Jessica co Blogger at Book Passion for LifeDear Ms. James,I'm going to keep this short.
This series has truly been wonderful to read, I'll forever keep these books as some of the best reads of all time.
The ending was perfect and I will forever love this series, and Christian Grey, who is by far the hardest man to forget about.
I thank you once again, Ms. James.Beguiled Fifty Shades reader Jessica co Blogger at Book Passion for Life
I have read a lot of mixed reviews for Fifty Shades Freed, the third novel in the Fifty Shades trilogy. This is my response: Fifty Shades Freed was EXCELLENT. How can anyone complain about more Fifty?
Okay - Not going o too much into a full detail on the plot – millions of people have read the books and if you haven’t and don’t want to read any spoilers…then stop now, because there are a couple of them in this review.SOME MINOR SPOILERS AHEAD...but hey, if you have read the books or you're not going to read them.....WHY SHOULD THEY MATTER!!!!And the whole thing of Christian (OMG, i love this guy - the ultimate tortured hero who makes good) being so cruel and unfeeling to Ana….well, he reacted to certain things like a lot of men do when faced with Ana’s announcement of “Blip”!!A lot happens in this book.
