https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/861992.The_Hidden_Window_Mystery
Yet another great mystery story to this add to this great book series.
I believe I read an original version with 214 pages, but it didn't appear in the choices I had to pick from. That being said, it was another Nancy Drew book. Full of mystery and suspense, sort of.
Another delightful trip down memory lane!And as a side note - Ned's status is downgraded here. While he is usually referred to as Nancy's "special friend" and MAYBE as her boyfriend once or twice, here we are told "they had been friends for years." Just friends. Poor Ned.
In our case.But perhaps some others do still find them fun.For that instance, thought I'd mention a few things.
The other thing is that this mystery centers on peacock feathers.
They keep popping up in the story, which has to do also with parts of the house that were decorated by peacock feather designs originally.
Turns out, one of the characters in the book is from India, and he had been hiding the peacocks because he thought Americans were superstitious about them, believing them to bring bad luck.
Earlier on in the book is mentions that the feathers in their fantails, especially, are said to bring bad luck.
After reading "The Hidden Window Mystery" by Carolyn Keene, I am completely speechless.
This book is beyond amazing.
This book has me reading non-stop, one page after another.
The best features of this book are the way the author completely develops them.
Nancy, the detective, and a friend, George are always wanting to see what happens next in solving the hidden window mystery.
Where Bess is more of a cautious person.
You would have never thought one specific event happened because of the beginning.
You are always eager to see what happens next, which I why I recommend this to mystery lovers!
Another fun one.
I enjoyed reading The Hidden Window Mystery book.
This one was about Nancy, who had found an article about a reward if you found a missing stained glass window that was most likely in Charlottesville.
She found so many different clues and people to suspect, but in the end, it turned out to be Alonzo Rugby who was very mean to her and made a fake window to get the reward money.
Nancy found the hidden window at a place called Ivy Hall and gave the reward money to the River Heights Hospital (she lives in River Heights).
I enjoyed reading this book!
"The Hidden Window Mystery" wasn't quite the same as Nancy Drew's other mysteries. Instead of having the usual one or two mysteries that intertwine this one had 4! Very exciting and lots of fun characters that were hard to tell at times who were the suspects and who were the victims!
I do remember reading this one when I was younger. I liked it this time around as well.
Nancy Drew, all the books, everyone is amazing. There are just a few things, but otherwise it was a wonderful and interesting book.
This is again another great Nancy Drew mystery. The hidden window mystery follows the usual Nancy Drew plot, where she stumbles on a few mysteries which happen to be connected, and at the end she solves them all. In the Hidden Window mystery, a Reward is offered for a lost stained glass window, but other evil people are looking to find it too, Nancy must find the window first in order to thwart the Evil plans of her competitors. I would recommend his book to people looking to a quick mystery.
The Hidden Window Mystery  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 34th book in the  Nancy Drew  series. A magazine article offering a large reward to anyone who can find a missing medieval stained-glass window intrigues Nancy Drew. She asks Bess and George to join her on a search in Charlottesville, Virginia. And before the three friends leave River Heights, their adversary tries to get them to postpone the trip. But no such luck, as Nancy is determined to carry through her
A magazine article offering a large reward to anyone who can find a missing medieval stained-glass window intrigues Nancy Drew.
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
This mystery takes Nancy and her friends to Virginia where they find a gang of people who are trying to get the stained glass window for a reward .Among these people is Nancy's unfriendly next door neighbour.
We find that while Nancy has been dating Ned for awhile now and he's totally in love with her (although he never says it), she's willing to play the field.
There is a party thrown by her cousin and another man occupies Nancy's time and she seems to quite enjoy it.
I am re-reading most of the series because I loved them as a tween, but as an adult they still hold some charm and they are a quaint look back at a time that is very different than the 21st century with all of our hi-tech gadgetry.
I felt like the plots and characters were a bit more even and plausible in this one than in the last few ND books I've read, and the "local color" and semi-educational information on the art & craft of stained glass windows provided some nice atmosphere - whether it's at all accurate or not, I have no idea.
Just because I didn't find the plot so preposterous this time, I would be inclined to give it a good solid four stars and call it one of the best Nancy Drew books I've read so far.But. I read the un-revised 1956 version.All the romantic nostalgia for the genteel days of slavery on the old West Virginia estates is hideous.
keywords: peacocks, cousin Susan, ghosts, Charlottesville, stained glass, trap doors, Alonzo Rugby, convertible crashThis is the first original text Nancy Drew I've read and it's heavy on racist white lady yearnings for The Way Things Were:When the maid left the room, Susan smiled and whispered to the girls, "I try to make things easier for Beulah but she insists upon working and serving everything the old-fashioned way.
I must confess, though, that I love it."--Annette pointed out the old slave quarters a hundred and fifty feet away, now tumble-down and covered with ivy.
Huomasi, ettei ollut ihan nykykirja :) mutta viehättävästi. Salossa olevaa kirjamysteeriä varten luin.Helmet: 7 (salanimellä kirjoitettu)Popsugar: 11 (pseudonym)
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew.
It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain.
Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy.
No brains.
To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation.
Carolyn Keene wrote just for me!
That is how I felt.
When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ...
I also loved the Hardy Boys.
No wonder I loved these series.Great for girls aged 8 and up.
Secret passageways and a hidden tunnel! And not available for kindle!Someone breaks into a house where the girls are staying and steals their lingerie. No joke.Nancy destroys yet another boat.Racism! I think this rewrite probably turned the house help from black to unambiguously raced, but they talk like mammies. Also, apparently peacocks are evil and bring bad luck.Nancy loses consciousness when hit by a rock thrown by an unknown assailant. George cuts her hand on glass and falls into water.
**I read the original, 25 chapter version**this was my second time reading this book.
i recall finding it a bit boring the first.
upon rereading it i found it a bit annoying for the normal Nancy Drew reasons but mainly immense amounts of coincidences, theres more in this than in most books.I do have to say it was a little funny when the process of making stained glass windows was explained as it's something I have experience with.
Although it was accurate it was amusing how the description was drawn out to try to make it seem more complicated that it really is.
I enjoyed reading this Nancy Drew book. It was like all of the other books, but with a different mystery, of course. I only gave it 4 stars instead of 5 because there were a lot of little mysteries. There is a main mystery Nancy tries to solve, and then there are others. There were so many others that I got confused when they were talking about specific people. I didn’t know which mystery they were a part of. That was the only thing that bothered me, otherwise I enjoyed the novel.
#34! Only 18 left.This book is about Nancy trying to find a long lost stained-glass window. She sees a magazine article about a $10,000 reward for a long-lost window. She travels to North Carolina to the last known place that the family who had owned the window had lived. I don't know how those authors packed peacocks, an actress, hidden passages, great manors, stained-glass artists into a small book but they did.
This book is okay. The reason I don't like it that much is because the plot is all over the place. It is hard to keep up with all the different characters. In this one book there is about three different mysteries. First it starts with Nancy Drew going to visit her aunt, then while she is there she is hit with a mystery by her aunt's friend. Then she gets another mystery and then yet another one. I think Carolyn Keene just put to much into the
Not particularly one of my favorite Nancy Drews.When I was little, I used to think that Nancy Drew was super smart and perfect. But that's just it. Now that I'm older and able to comprehend, I realized, she's just too perfect. And that she isn't exactly smart, her friends are just dumb. Blame it on this book for making it too obvious for me.Anyway, a classic is a classic so as long as I haven't got my hands on the complete Nancy Drew Mystery Stories, I ain't gonna stop.
So glad to be reading some Nancy again (though there will be a lot more in my immediate future)! This was a really lovely atmospheric one, full of peacocks and gardens and stained glass, but the ending was just a tad rushed for me.Read my full review at Get A Clue here!
When I was about 10 or 11, my mother signed me up for a book of the month club. Every month, I received two Nancy Drew or two Hardy Boys books. Every month, they were both read in a week and I was asking when the next book would be there!I thank my mother for recognizing and encouraging my love of reading.
Read and re-read this entire series as a young girl, and still have the entire set of (yellow) books circa 1960s. My dad built me a bookself with a shelf just the right size to hold my collection. I have to say I enjoyed the series. Also read the Bobbsey Twins, some books about Annette Funicello, and some other older mystery books in the same genre as Nancy Drew (Dana ? I think, very fuzzy.)
This book is about Nancy Drew finding a stained-glass window that was apparently hidden in the old castle where it comes from. She also gets accused of steeling 100 dollars from her new neighbor, even though it is illegal to send money through the mail. Are the two incidents linked, I have yet to find out.
I enjoyed the setting for "The Hidden Window." Set in Charlottesville,Virginia, you got a feel for the beauty and history surrounding this colonial area. Parts of plot were a bit slow (in my opinion), but I still enjoyed the character interactions and the "idea" of taking part in the action of this story. Besides, this short, pleasant read should get me caught up on my Reading Challenge now! :)
This is a great book for all mystery fans!!! There are so many mysteries in this book, and with so much going on, you will never want to put the book down! This time around, Nancy heads up to West Virginia to try to find clues to two mysteries, but she ends up getting involved in more! But make sure you pay attention, or else you can get really confused!
