https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/136113.Sir_Percy_Hits_Back
It's a good story but the idea of Chauvelin raising such an innocent sweet daughter while he's off murdering and scheming across the French countryside seems rather improbable. But then again, I guess everything about the Scarlet Pimpernel books is improbable. They're just pure escapism.
I just love this series, I always have.
These books gave me an interest in the French Revolution (because they reference real people and real events).
In this one we get to see the unwitting hypocrisy of Monsieur Chambertin.The thing is, I always felt terribly sorry for Adèle.
Orczy doesn't seem to be hugely sympathetic to her, but I think her situation sounds just awful :( I also tend to favour the ones in which we get to see the Sir Percy side of the character as well as the Pimpernel.
But there's no denying I raced through this with more excitement than I've felt for quite a while at any novel - loved it.
My reaction to Sir Percy Hits Back.I wish I could rewrite it.
She spends such a long time going on about what's going on and describing what people are thinking and the climaxes are all weird and there seem to be things that are just plain contradictory.How can someone be at the same time "calm" and "terrified" in the same moment?
So, really this book is about a different set of characters and how their lives are affected by Sir Percy, which is fine I guess, but not what I was expecting.
I just find myself wishing it were a better book!
It spends most of its time examining an unknown side of the series' villain, Chauvelin.
Usually portrayed as a calculating, cold-hearted executioner, the character's softer side is shown as the reader discovers he is a father.
It was an excellent example of how to make a character--even a villainous one--sympathetic to the reader.
In the other books, Orczy habitually describes Chauvelin's hands as talon-like and sinister.
However, in this volume the perspective changes to that of his daughter and she uses much softer terms to describe them.
This book showed me how point of view changes how the author portrays the same object, person, etc.
An excellant adventure of another mission that the Scarlet Pimpernel takes to save the innocent, and in this instance, some familiar faces are in need of saving! Though this was quite an injoyable read, I didn't find it to be quite as reviting as some of Orczy's other books in her Scarlet Pimpernel series. I would suggest reading Orczy's more exhilerating books first such as, El Dorado, The Elusive Pimpernel, and of course, The Scarlet Pimpernel, before starting with this book. Though with all of that said, I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book.
So this book was good in that the story is mostly told from the enemy's point of view and Chavlin has been put in a tight position... But I still like The First Sir Percy, The Scarlet Pimpernel, El Dorado, and The Elusive Pimpernel the best. Two more to Go!
It's a real shame the blurb for this book gives away the story. Fortunately, I hadn't read any blurb so had to guess what was coming. That aspect of the story made it really delightful, especially given how it played out. This is probably one of my favourite Pimpernel novels.
This is great book!
Warning: a little bit of language and perhaps more "romance" than parents might want. I plan to read this again and create a Clean Guide. Check back again or message me to request this be bumped to the top of the list!
