https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20958632-the-darkest-part-of-the-forest
After finishing this, I feel I can declare that Holly Black is fantastic at writing paranormal standalones.
I love Holly Black's writing style and the way she weaves snippets from the past into the present storyline to create more tension.
Lots of great ties between the characters.While I didn't love this one quite as much as I loved The Coldest Girl in Coldtown, I did still thoroughly enjoy it and would recommend it to anyone who liked Holly's previous books, anyone looking for a solid paranormal standalone, or anyone who enjoys faerie lore (I'm not even a huge fan of faerie lore, but I still loved this world!
I feel like my life is just a constant cycle of finally getting past the book I was obsessing about and then immediately finding another book to obsess about.My heart is growing a lot and I want to cover this story and these characters in it.
Actually, I've decided I'm completely disenchanted with the human experience and I'd like to retreat into this book!🌟THE CHARACTERS:One of the many things I loved about this book is the diversity.
I LOVED THE CHARACTERS in this!! If anything they were the pull that kept me coming back to this book. I also liked how weird this book got! BRING ON THE WEIRDNESS AND YOU'RE SURE TO WIN ME OVER. I do think this book missed the WOW factor and I wasn't super keen on the plot, but it was still a fun time.
This was such a satisfying read! I started this not knowing pretty much anything about the book and I'm so glad I didn't read more into the synopsis. It was such a fun and enjoyable read.
Down a path worn into the woods, past a stream and a hollowed-out log full of pill bugs and termites, was a glass of coffin. It rested right on the ground and in it slept a boy with horns on his head and ears as pointed as knives. *Holly Black has written a considerable amount of books, but this is the first novel by her that I have read. Not that I was not interested in the others: I am simply always too excited by new releases. While wondering what great reads 2015 would bring us, I found thi
Perhaps to possess more than enough time to include memories and solid background for our two main characters, Hazel and Ben?
Sometimes Ben told stories about how he would free the prince, with three magic words—words he’d never say out loud in front of Hazel.
I must say that, having read quite a few LGBT books and M/M romances in the past, I was not one hundred percent convinced regarding the two gay character’s (Ben + to-discover) love for each other, especially Ben’s.
It very much felt like insta-love even though they technically knew each other for a long long time.
”They were in love with him because he was a prince and a faerie and magical and you were supposed to love princes and faeries and magic people." This LINE!!!  It resonated so much with me when I read the book! It describes my love for faeries in the best possible way and I can’t thank Holly Black enough for writing it down! I think this is going to be one of my favourite quotes ever. XDAnd I’m convinced Holly Black and I will have a very long and prosperous relationship in the future! If all he
It describes my love for faeries in the best possible way and I can’t thank Holly Black enough for writing it down!
Anything that kept her from pressing her hand against her chest to feel the thudding of her own heart and know that each beat was another moment lost.”I really liked that girl!
Even though he was the centre of the story, he actually didn’t appear all too much in it, which is kind of funny but also so damn sad because I really would have loved to get to know him better.
4.5 stars - Holly Black at her finest.  Once, there was a girl who vowed she would save everyone in the world, but forgot herself.  Seriously, how does Holly Black create such bone-chillingly wondrous books  time and time again?Hazel Evans and her brother (Ben) live in Fairfold - a town blessed (cursed?) by the fair folk. The food tastes better, the art is more beautiful and the world, far crueler.  There's a monster in our wood. She'll get you if you're not good. Drag you under leaves and stick
Seriously, how does Holly Black create such bone-chillingly wondrous books  time and time again?Hazel Evans and her brother (Ben) live in Fairfold - a town blessed (cursed?) by the fair folk.
And despite all that, Hazel loves Fairfold with every fiber of her being.
The town is famous (in part) due to the horned boy with pointed ears in the glass coffin.
The way they played off of each other was superb.Also, I love the way Holly Black portrays LGBT characters in her books - they are never the main motive of the plot.
Oh book, you make it so difficult to rate you.The thing about Holly Black is that she writes in very different styles.
But this book had a couple of intriguing first chapters with an interesting protagonist and promises of creepy, dark goodness, and then it became so difficult to read on.
It felt like an effort to make myself pick the book back up.
I'm not even sure if it is the writing itself that makes the plot so not compelling.
The setting and language was creepy and atmospheric, but the main story wasn't.
What fun!! Mel 🖤🐾🐺
Down a path worn into the woods, past a stream and a hollowed-out log full of pill bugs and termites, was a glass coffin. It rested right on the ground, and in it slept a boy with horns on his head and ears as pointed as knives. First time reading Holly Black and I'm not disappointed.I was a bit skeptical at first because I heard her writing is similar to Cassandra Clare's, who I'm not really a fan of, but I'm glad to say the rumors were only and exactly rumors, and that Holly Black could give
First time reading Holly Black and I'm not disappointed.I was a bit skeptical at first because I heard her writing is similar to Cassandra Clare's, who I'm not really a fan of, but I'm glad to say the rumors were only and exactly rumors, and that Holly Black could give not only CC but a lot of authors a run for their money.
I don't know how to explain it better, but it was like reading in colors.
Everything from the writing and the characterization of the various characters made me feel like I was not just reading this book, but being part of it, as well.
Holy Changeling, that boy deserves all the love a reader is capable of giving.
Ahem...Anyway, I'm so glad I decided to read this book.
“Once, there was a girl who vowed she would save everyone in the world, but forgot herself.” This was such a whimsical and beautiful story about a sleepy little down named Fairfold, who has a pact with all the faeries that if the fae leave them alone, all the tourists are free game.
But why would tourists want to visit this little town nestled in the forest?
Hazel is none the wiser, until the handsome horned fae boy is finally broken free of this glass casket.
There is lots of coupling and pairs throughout this impactful little story.“We love until we do not.
I thought there would be more gay fae and I am sever(in)ely disappointed that there wasn’t3.5 stars, RTC
It's a magical story about Hazel and her brother, Ben, and their love for a horned boy cursed to sleep in a glass coffin.
Don't get me wrong, I love standalones...but...I could read an entire series of this town of Fairfold and Hazel, Ben, and Jack with ease.
Which means it's a good book and YOU definitely need your heart a stabbed a little with fairy swords so GO!
You could send me on some kind of quest to win your favour.""Oh no," she said, smiling at last, because he was her friend Jack, who had ridiculous cheekbones and ridiculous ideas.
It was all worth it.Confession time you guys, I am a Holly Black newbie, and with that comes all the glorious musings of a blogger who just discovered their new favorite author.
Ben and Hazel Evans live in the town of Fairfold, where the line between human reality and the otherness of Faery blur, a town with a glass coffin housing a beautiful horned boy in eternal sleep.
Holly Black masterfully normalized his sexuality in a way I feel should be embraced by all.
Black writes characters and relationships that are fucked up and doesn't always care to tell the audience “hey, this isn't okay.” There's this vibe of evil, of hate, that she's not trying to get rid of.
// CHARACTERS YOU HATE AND LOVEHolly Black is very good at writing unlikeable protagonists, characters you somewhat despise and somewhat love.
Black is very good at making you empathize with characters you feel as if you should dislike.
I also somewhat adore the way Holly Black writes relationships.
Ben and Hazel's small town feels like another world, a claustrophobic hideaway cut off from all being.
Kissed the boys and made them cry.”I hereby demand to have my own horned faerie prince.
Lots of times, when I finish a book, I think to myself that I should have read it sooner.
I also enjoyed - spoiler - the fact that the sleeping faerie prince fell in love with Hazel's brother, Ben. I would love to find out more about their future together and I heard they got a cameo in The Cruel Prince so my fingers are crossed.
Overall I still enjoyed every aspect of the book and cannot wait to start The Cruel Prince.Find more of my books on Instagram
2/5oh noooo.i'm really sorry if i'm upsetting anyone by not liking this book. if it helps, i'm upset, too.full review @ https://emmareadstoomuch.wordpress.co...
The Darkest Part of the Forest is a delightful fairy tale and coming-of-age story about a girl who wants to be a knight and a boy who wants to be loved.The fairies in the woods around Fairfold are not the playful, glitter-winged sprites of popular culture.
They sneak into the homes of Fairfold and exchange their fairy children for the human ones.
Perhaps they should be.I was charmed by this story.
Holly Black has created a world that I want to step into despite its dangers.
Highly recommended for young adults or the young at heart who are looking for a fantasy-filled escape from the real world.
There’s a monster in our wood. She’ll get you if you’re not good. Drag you under leaves and sticks. Punish you for all your tricks. A nest of hair and gnawed bone.You are never, ever coming… Holly Black has done it again! She gives us dark, mysterious and scary story about a girl-knight, who swings a sword better than fairies, about her brother who has the gift to charm everyone with his music, and about a prince who is sleeping in a glass coffin in the middle of the forest. There are horns gro
She gives us dark, mysterious and scary story about a girl-knight, who swings a sword better than fairies, about her brother who has the gift to charm everyone with his music, and about a prince who is sleeping in a glass coffin in the middle of the forest.
Of running all the way to where the horned boy slept, singing songs and making up stories about him all afternoon, only coming home at night, exhausted, wild animals returning to a den.They saw themselves as children of the forest, creeping around pools and hiding in the hollows of dead trees.
I loved quite a few things about this book - the setup, the fairy lore, the whole "fairy-prince-sleeping-in-a-glass-coffin" idea. But the plot of this novel was very poor - so rushed, with everything crammed into the last third, with an underdeveloped conflict, a silly villain ((view spoiler)[a walking tree who makes you cry (hide spoiler)]) and hasty romances. Black definitely had trouble plotting this story out, which was confirmed by her own "Acknowledgements" at the end of the book.
The thing about fantasy is, it's always a hit or a miss for me. TDPotF was definitely a hit - it's character driven with an enchanting setting and writing that makes everything unbelievably believable. Once, there was a girl who found a sword in the woods.Once, there was a girl who made a bargain with the Folk.Once, there was a girl who'd been a knight in the service of a monster.Once, there was a girl who vowed she would save everyone in the world, but forgot herself.Once, there was a girl. If
The thing about fantasy is, it's always a hit or a miss for me.
TDPotF was definitely a hit - it's character driven with an enchanting setting and writing that makes everything unbelievably believable.
It has the characters, and it has the writing.
All that's missing is a plot, but the best kind of fantasy is the one you don't understand.This gave me TRC feels sometimes, because the characters made me ridiculously happy.If you have any doubts about picking this one up, though?
(Hack?)(view spoiler)[Their romance is the cutest I've read in quite a while - the best friend to boyfriend trope done well at last.
They are obsessed with a beautiful prince who sleeps in a glass coffin in the middle of the woods… if that doesn’t make you want to read this…what would?The plot/story drew me in right away and I instantly felt gripped.
I felt like I knew a good deal about the world as I read on.The characters were absolutely perfect.
*cough*  Holly Black, I need a sequel just from his POV  *cough*   Jack  - I always get asked, if I had to choose a book boyfriend, who would I choose?
I loved the family relationship between Hazel & Ben so much.
Once I picked this one up, I couldn't put it down. I read almost all of it in one day. It was that entertaining. I was hooked, needing to know what was next, what was going on, where these characters would end up. My first Holly Black book will certainly not be my last!
The Darkest Part of the Forest by Holly Black is a standalone young adult fantasy read that takes place in a world just like ours only there are fae living among the humans.
Now this one is on the darker side as these fairies are not the sparkly nice kind but the dark and creepy version.Hazel and Ben are a brother and sister who live in Fairfold, a city in which the humans live alongside the Fae. In the woods there is a glass coffin with a faerie boy that has been there for years and years that Hazel and Ben have both fallen in love with.
This was so much better than The Cruel Prince. Where has THIS book been this whole time? RTC- - - Buddy Read with Kayla and might I say that I am loving this far more than I did The Cruel Prince
I enjoyed this but I definitely think I will forget about it in a couple days \_(ツ)_/
I enjoyed this but I definitely think I will forget about it in a couple days ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
The siblings Hazel and Ben live in a small town called Fairfolk, a city surrounded by a haunted forest full of Fairy Folk.
The boy has been asleep for centuries, and although Hazel and Ben once dreamed of saving him when they were younger, things are different now.
Both teenagers are hiding huge secrets for each other, but when one day the boy is freed and wicked fairies start crossing the forest borders into the human city, it’s up to them to trust each other and save Fairfold.
I love Hazel and Ben, not only as main characters but also as siblings.
I loved the writing style in this book. I want more 3rd person POV! And this is the first fairy book I've read all the way through that I've enjoyed! It was fun, but still had substance.
I see she has another, The Coldest Girl in Coldtown, that I want to check out purely for the fact that it's not part of a series.One of the things I think a lot of people are applauding is the fact that there's a gay character, a (maybe?) bisexual character, and African American characters (actually from Africa as there's a part when they mention Yoruban ancestry).
I’m finding this book hard to rate because on one hand, I loved the eerily-dark “fairy” tale and on the other hand, my attention was kinda lost in the semantics of fairies and magic and horned-prince-boys.
Deep in the forest, there is a glass coffin that holds the body of a sleeping-horned-boy that has remained for generations.
Hazel and her brother Ben are enthralled by this horned boy, their secret prince, since they were children.
The characters were alright, I felt like Jack was the most interesting, the others were kinda so-so, (yes, even the horned-prince boy).
