https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/382975.The_Obscene_Bird_of_Night
Όποιος ακούσει το Άσεμνο πουλί της νύχτας να κελαηδάει με χιλιάδες ανθρώπινες φωνές και μελωδίες απο τις εφιαλτικές ορχήστρες της παράνοιας,τότε σίγουρα έχει οργανώσει το χάος των τρόμων και των φαντασιώσεων του.
Έχει εκτιναχτεί απο την έκρηξη του υποσυνείδητου που παραληρεί με μια αυτόνομη λογική και μπορεί να εκφράσει σε εμάς έναν κόσμο αποσύνθεσης,απόλυτης μοναξιάς,λήθης και διάψευσης της οποιασδήποτε ελπίδας.
Όλο το μυθιστόρημα είναι το παραλήρημα του Ουμπέρτο-Μουδίτο μέσα απο τον οποίο γεννιούνται όλα και κυρίως οι πολλαπλές μεταμορφώσεις και τα ταξίδια σε έναν αντιφατικό κόσμο κατοικημένο απο φαντάσματα,τέρατα,μάγισσες,κληρικούς,μισότρελες γριές με εξαιρετικές ικανότητες και ανικανότητες,εχθρούς,απειλές,καθυστερημένες ορφανές υπάρξεις και πληθώρα συμβολισμών μιας ανυπόφορης πραγματικότητας.
(view spoiler)[ However I will just say that it is also entirely possible to read the novel in a relatively linear fashion - with book 2 mostly coming temporally prior to 1 and 3 - i.e. Humberto meets and is employed by Jeronimo, has sex with his wife while J fucks Peta, is punished by being surgically mutilated and castrated and becomes Mudito and who then, due to his lacking genitals, becomes the seventh "old woman" in the Casa etc etc and all the stuff in Book 1 take place...but I don't want to, as it is much more fun to leave the whole thing in contradictory flux (hide spoiler)]What needs to be understood from the outset is that the author is not being wantonly opaque - you are not expected to engage in close reading in order to sleuth out who our narrating persona is at any given time.
This papier-mâché world, more real than the reality itself, is full of remnants of human life scattered around like obscure statues of saints — forgotten, mutilated, never whole again.
So many layers that never truly let us in on their terrifying secrets...
Old, moth-eaten women and their sacrilegious murmur, always waiting for the final night that repeatedly fails to fall - how ungodly their monstrous sanctity is, their world of hushed rosaries, ravings and obsessions, their stories full of snarling beasts and witchcraft, teaching children how the greatest terrors are born.Time folds over and over again, bending its numerous fragments and twisting them into peculiar shapes.
The perfect review of The Obscene Bird of Night would actually be this.The image that burned in my brain as I read was Goya's El Gran CabronPathetically, that's about the best review I can offer...which is surprising because I'm usually so stingy with my 5-star ratings.
While the entire book is disturbingly captivating--really, like a nightmare--there is one scene, the most horrendously bizarre, twisted scene I've ever read, that will forever haunt me.
The natural inheritance of everyone who is capable of spiritual life is an unsubdued forest where the wolf howls and the obscene bird of night chatters." -Henry James Sr. writing to his two sons

That is not a criticism of the book, maybe just at a particular way of reading this particular novel.
You will probably read this book differently.
Out with the ugly red pen and slash that line and give me the lowest possible grade one can get for turning in a paper filled with bullshit), and that means that everything on the back of the book (i.e., what you can read the novel is about up above in the good reads synopsis) is not the reality of the narrative.
, I can see the influence this masterpiece has had upon Donoso's fellow interpreters of our magical and macabre world; authors who also dipped into the stuff of dreams and darkness, of lore and legends, in order to sketch their own eerie and compelling visions of spiritual verity, of human truth.
There is the haunting story of the monstrous Boy, who was surrounded by a world of deformed people just like himself, thus reversing the meaning of normality and beauty.The whole novel is infused with the myth of the Imbunche, even the House is transformed gradually into one, as the windows are bricked-up, rooms and corridors hidden under false walls, as if they never existed.
Donoso has written a sharpened stick to jab in the world's eye, according to the principles Poe expounded in his famous review of Hawthorne's "Twice Told Tales." Poe's supposition that such "unity of effect" as is the author's goal cannot be sustained over the length of a work that takes more than one sitting to read is here completely refuted by Donoso's incredible sense of resonance.
The images, events, even the characters double, even treble until they waver in front of the reader's eyes.
All we seem to understand is that a dumb, maybe crippled man (Humberto, the 'Mudito') lives in a half-ruined Chilean convent, the Casa de Ejercicios Espirituales, inhabited by horrible old women, a few nuns and some filthy little orphans, one of which gets pregnant.
Also, the reader gets acquainted with the story of the Casa: the convent was originally conceived as a retreat for the dishonoured daughter of the landowner's ancestor, who paradoxically ended up dying in the odour of sanctity.
Hence the problem: Donoso's talent is mostly displayed in the first book, whereas the rest of the novel gets weaker - only occasionally surprising the reader with some disturbing scene of depraved religiosity or esoteric eroticism.
dick died he was trying to write a book called the owl in daylight.
there are no villains really, there are no saints, though these capering fools will try to invent some, as the story unfolds.since pkd never wrote the owl in daylight, i'll say this book is like a south american nightmare mutation of the sound and the fury.
i didn't immediately understand all the threads in that book either but that's what keeps me coming back to it, and it's why i will read the obscene bird of night again -- that slap is a challenge that still stings.

This may very well be the leitmotif of magical realism, but here, we have a splintering of human reality so profound that the whole piece fractures into miniscule shards which are propelled disparately away from the epi centre in furious motion, so when the dust settles, there is simply nothing tangible left to commemorate the premise.The skeleton of OBN is framed by the multiple narrative of ostensibly one character, Humberto, who morphs continuously into a (eunuch?)deaf-mute, a newborn baby, and finally, into an Imbunche.
On a clinical level, I’ve traversed enough through the annals of literature to grasp the main thrust of OBN: Yes, the collapse of external reality, the denouncement of a fractured society, the purported destruction of consciousness, and the multiple perspectives of the same reality.
Una de la madrugada y yo terminaba de contemplar la desgracia de Mudito, transformado en un imbunche por las viejas grotescas y arrugadas de la Chimba, Jerónimo abatido por la relación con su hijo, Inés evocando a la beata del pasado, y así, cada uno de los personajes viviendo un infierno personal del cual es imposible desprenderse, como un destino establecido desde antes.
Personajes complejos, que contemplan su desgracia y la aceptan, porque son parte de una de las dos clases sociales que imperan dentro del contexto de la historia, miles de interpolaciones textuales que se entrecruzan dentro de algunos momentos, y continuamente, se deshilvana una obra maestra, tanto desde el punto de vista de la forma como del contenido.
Por donde comenzar...Una par de veces en mi vida he sufrido de parálisis del sueño, esa sensación de estar despierto pero seguir dormido, dentro de un sueño que se funde con la realidad, sin tener control de la situación.
Pero llega el momento en que uno de verdad se despierta, y la realidad le parece muy obvia, no sabe porqué fue tan estúpido para confundir un sueño o pesadilla con la realidad.
Esta en todas partes y todos los tiempos, pero pareciera no existir.A pesar de lo experimental en su forma de relatar, en los temas que trata, el argumento y la trama, el libro se disfruta de principio a fin.
This is not an easy book to read for two reasons: 1) It can be a little hard to stomach all the images that it offers, and 2) You must have a willingness to submit to the chaotic experience that the text lends.The novel begins with a Henry James Sr. quote from a note to his sons (in doing some research it sounds like the it is either ((mildly)) misquoted or reinterpreted by Donoso.).
All the memories I have of the book are probably false ones, but there is a general sense of elaborate deaths and elaborate reactions to deaths in somewhat tropical surroundings.
There's also a sense of general bewilderment, but I do definitely remember that this is the book that made it very clear to me how much certain Latin novelists owed to William Faulkner, or rather how much they loved Faulkner and couldn't help but be influenced.
The Obscene Bird of Night is definitely Faulkner's Southern Gothic elaborated upon by a labyrinthine phantasmagoric Latin sensibility.
Look at that cover! I want the edition with this cover!
I haven't decided on a rating for this because it's so unreal that I can't come to terms with it yet.
Nos presenta "La casa de ejercicios espirituales de la Chimba", una especie de convento, o claustro en decadencia, cuyo fin inicial se remonta a finales del siglo XVIII; ahora es una simple propiedad que ha pasado de generación en generación, perteneciente a una familia de la aristocracia chilena de origen vasco: "Los Azcoitía".
En un momento da a entender que la Casa de la encarnación de la Chimba, lleva más 150 años a manos de la familia Azcoitía.
Se conocerán en profundidad las vidas de Inés y Jerónimo, como además las de algunas de las habitantes de la casona y la del misterioso narrador: "el mudito".Reseña completa en: http://eligeunlibro.blogspot.cl/2017/...
This book was for me a grosteque hallucination. It is not an easy read, I felt dizzy often and rendered speechless. It is heart breaking and horrifying. The deformed child is surrounded by other 'monsters' in seclusion. Abnormality becomes the ordinary, and my stomach spent a lot of time twisting until I felt quesy. Not many books induce such physical reactions. It is not for the weak, as you will plumment into a disturbing dream. For me, it is one of the greatest books ever penned!
Es con esta novela, trabajada durante unos ocho años, que el autor cierra todo un ciclo temático que incluye Coronación, El lugar sin límites y Este domingo.
Obra de factura experimental, contiene un discurso fragmentado poco objetivo de múltiples narradores que se atropellan unos a otros al dar desordenados puntos de vista; dibuja un protagonista que fue escritor de novela, el secretario privado del señor, un mudito manipulador, vieja bruja y niño milagroso; mantiene encerradas a sus monstruosas creaciones en un mundo irreal, senil e inservible, siempre a punto de ser exterminado.
Flashes of seriously gorgeous prose... particularly in the closing section (and just about any time the monster/boy speaks). Not nearly as dark or disturbing as I expected or yearned for, and I think the rating suffered as a result. Still very enjoyable, with my full endorsement and recommendation.
I’m less than 60 pages from finishing this book… and I don’t think I’ll ever finish it… I don’t want no more nightmares, every time I read this book I can’t stop reading it and when I do I don’t wanna go back to it! is so good!! but so fucking scary!!!
No es un libro de lectura fácil, el universo que crea Donoso es complejo y atractivo, lleno de monstruos y figuras espectrales que entran y salen del relato principal. hubo momentos en que me cansó un poco el exceso descriptivo de este mundo pero creo que era necesario para comprenderlo en su totalidad, la locura se toma el papel de narrador principal y nos pasea por barrios capitalínos que aún podemos reconocer y personajes que aún vagan por las calles y asoman por las ventanas de antiguas casonas.
There's also this sprawling metaphor of the birth of a work of fiction in the author's obsession with a monster called an imbunche, a deformed, swaddled, small human, its limbs broken and re-set to become the protector of a place from the outside world.
The Obscene Bird of Night is itself an imbunche, a twisted narrative that at one point might have been a common fairy tale that morphed into this bizarre creation.I'm also going to add a warning that there are some scenes of...
Es que la chilenidad de este libro se desborda por los costados.
Es además uno de aquellos libros que, aunque uno trate una y otra vez de aislar un párrafo o frase para citar, no logra conseguirlo: el libro es demasiado bueno, complejo, enmarañado como para aceptar citas.Curiosamente, este pedazo de literatura de Donoso no parece ser particularmente popular en Chile.
Otras de sus obras, como Coronación (un libro terrible, a mi parecer) gozan de mucho más reconocimiento.
No puedo más que recomendarlo a cualquiera que haya gozado de libros como Pedro Páramo, Rayuela, o Sobre Héroes y Tumbas.
Espero terminar este mes la lectura.
Espero acabar con este pájaro ahora en mayo.
(mayo 2009)Al fin lo terminé.
¿Qué puedo decir después del calvario de cuatro meses de lectura, desde mis vacaciones hasta las jornadas laborales de hoy?
Un librazo, una historia para disfrutarla, para haberla leído 30 años atrás.
Una historia delirante de mundos mágicos y surrealistas, con el lenguaje intenso de Donoso, con chilenismos antiguos, de esos que ya no quedan.Se notan los 8 años de escritura y las eternas revisiones del autor.
En cualquier caso, un placer terminar esta lectura.(fines de mayo 2009)
Mind blowingly sad, surrealistic, beautiful, repulsive - I can't finish it. I am nearly to the end and I still don't know how exactly how I feel about what I've read up to this point. I'm afraid to continue; I don't know that I'm up to the task of processing what I've read once I've finished the last sentence. Powerful writing, maybe too powerful for me at the moment. I suspect I'll have this one on my "currently reading' shelf for a good, long while.
Derek warned me that this, his 2009 Best Book of the Year, was also the most disturbing read of the year. In both capacities it did not disappoint. A surreal, nightmarish descent into the mind of fictional narration itself, which experiences the freedom of its abstraction and multiplicity as grotesque deformity. Oddly beautiful, if you can believe that, and absolutely captivating.
