https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14644.A_House_Divided
It centers on the third generation of Wang Lung's family, focusing particularly on his grandson Wang Yuan.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیستم ماه جولای سال 1993 میلادیعنوان: خاندان از هم پاشیده؛ یا، خانه گلی؛ نویسنده: پرل باک؛ مترجم: فرحناز خمسه ای؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، موسسه چاپ و نشر بیگوند، 1371، در 405 ص؛ عنوان دیگر: خانه گلی؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی سده 20 مخانه گلی مجموعه سه رمان يا سه سوگنامه به هم پيوسته است؛ که جلد نخست آن: خاک خوب؛ و جلد دوم: پسران، نام دارد.
ایشان از سه ماهگی تا چهل و یک سالگی در چین زندگی کردند و زبان انگلیسی را به عنوان زبان دوم آموختند.
This third book in the Good Earth/Sons/A House Divided trilogy follows the life of Wang Yuan, son of a local warlord and grandson the the patriarch of  The Good Earth . He has left the revolutionary movement brewing in the south, but finds that he can’t tolerate living with the old traditions of his father's region. Thus Yuan moves to a coastal Chinese city where his stepmother and half sister live.There Yuan finds himself in the middle of a government crackdown on sympathizers of the revolution
This third book in the Good Earth/Sons/A House Divided trilogy follows the life of Wang Yuan, son of a local warlord and grandson the the patriarch of 
The book ends with the country in political chaos, but with a hint of hope for Yuan’s personal relationship with his young woman love interest.
.”Excerpt 2: A professor’s daughter discouraged Yuan from being influenced by her father to become Christian:“The truth is I have been much embarrassed by my parents’ efforts to interest you in their religion.
Revolution is upon China.
On return to China he faces the old versus the new, revolutionaries confused with what they have achieved, a dying father and a first love.
His wealthy uncles are fast becoming a lot poorer and no longer have the influence provided by their positions.Yuan's quandaries and mixed emotions as to what to do in a country with abject poverty and ignorance is matched with his uncertainty as to how to approach the woman he loves who is a modern Chinese independent thinker with her own plans.To me, probably the best of the three books.
Not many who have read the "Good Earth Trilogy" are likely to agree with me, but this was my favorite book in the series that begins with the The Good Earth, followed by Sons.
It is also the one that established Pearl Buck's reputation as a writer.
Perhaps it is because Pearl identified with the situation of these characters and understood their situation that she is able to write so perceptively about them.
She's able to give us more of an understanding of the psychology and motivations of the characters here than in the other two volumes.
A couple of days ago, I finished reading the novel, A House Divided by Pearl Buck, which was first published in 1935.
I found this literary novel, in which Pearl Buck tells the fictional story of Wang Yuan, son of Tiger, a Chinese war lord.
Pearl Buck tells the reader how Yuan reacts to America and Americans as well as his reactions when he returns to China, where poverty- stricken people's situation, and the upper class's attitude towards them has not changed.
A House Divided follows the son Yuan through the Chinese Revolution.A House Divided spends a lot of time juxtaposing familiar themes.
Industry is compared to agriculture in different times throughout the book.
I feel the plot is too slow to appeal to younger generations but Yuan is too teenager angst ridden to make adults really enjoy it.
There are some poignant and relevant points to be found in the value of relationships that I’m afraid people would miss by skipping this book.
But if turn of the century Chinese historical fiction is appealing to you, Pearl S.
This book was very easy to put down and forget about for several days at a time.
For he found that this lady, who could read well enough to take up any book and comprehend it, was filled with strange beliefs as any villager in his own land.
By her own talk with him he knew it, for she spoke of a certain festival in spring and she said, 'We call it Easter, Yuan, and on this day our dear Lord rose from the dead again and ascended into heaven.'"
A House Divided is the third novel in the trilogy.
The themes of the book are relevant today in that our culture, ideas, lifestyles, and the influence and relationships with our children, effect their lives and influence future choices.This book mainly concentrates on the son of Wang the Tiger (and the grandson of the original Wang) but it does reveal a bit here and there of the three sons of Wang.
You can't help but feel sorry for poor Wang the Tiger after all he'd been through and what he did for his son to ensure the future of the son he loved.
Overall, a pretty satisfying end to an excellent series by Pearl Buck.
Book III of the Good Earth trilogy focuses primarily on Yuan, with his cousins taking minor roles in this one.
Buck does a nice job of setting up these conflicts and asking the right questions about how to resolve them while depicting that there are no easy answers.
Nevertheless, Buck does a nice job developing the characters and taking the family that started in The Good Earth to a satisfying ending.I highly recommend this series.
To me this trilogy is exquisite. The use of language is like nothing I have ever read before, almost as beautifully crafted as Beryl Markham's West With the Night. This third book is not as good as the first two, but I still gave it 5 stars for the clear sense of the passage of time that this multigenerational story conveys. While the first book, The Good Earth, is best, it's worth it to hear the tale to it's end. Beautiful, beautiful writing.
Pearl Buck Nobel Prize WinnerTruly enjoyed following the life of a poor Chinese farmer who worked hard beside his strong and supportive wife to create great wealth in The Good Earth. The story sheds much light on Chinese History and the changing roles women faced as time marched forward. There is much irony in the story as the children's children forget where they came from and embrace "foreign ways".
It was hard to stay focused. I had to finish it but I was bored by the time I got to the end.
I am not sure just how much readers will learn about China and Chinese culture from the Good Earth Trilogy.
Still, A House Divided often suffers in comparison.At book's end, the final symbol of Mei-Ling and Yuan in the courtyard of the old earthen house probably gives us a last picture of what Buck wanted the new China to be.
Yuan's love-hate relationships with both his native country and the country of his sojourn are very convincing, and make a very eloquent answer to the critiques that some Chinese intellectuals made of The Good Earth (i.e. arguing that they had never seen the kind of poverty she described so she must have made it up).
I can imagine young men from the developing world today having similar mixed feelings of resentment and admiration while studying abroad in the US.
Near the end of the book comes a line like "the poor are always with us" that brings us back to a similar line in The Good Earth.
I read this book before I know there are 2 other books before it...
at first I was a bit confuse because suddenly Yuan bump into his father and they were arguing...
somehow I know what Yuan feels, he was mad at his country, but he love it with all his heart.
he lived in a hard time, when revolution started in China.
this book really show you two sides of life in china back then.
I can feel the passion, the situation, and what I love the most is the ending, it has a bit sad ending(because his father died) but still happy.
Yuan was so confused all the time and it seemed that the bulk of the book was about him kinda sorta hating one or another group of people, but not really hating them because he was a gentle soul....over and over.
I thought the revolution stuff was interesting, but don't know enough about Chinese history to really understand what was happending in a historical context.
I thought it was interesting how Meng hated the poor people who he was supposedly fighting for and that he wanted to join the new "real" revolution.
This was my favorite book of the "House of Earth" trilogy.
I loved the characters: Sheng, the elegant, handsome young poet, who loves art and everything beautiful; a hedonist, and the most honest and unconflicted of the family.
There's Wang the Tiger, a once fierce warlord, struggling to maintain power and dignity in a now defunct world, and whose most prized possession, until the end, is his beautifully decorated sword.
An image that will stay with me is that of old Wang the Landlord, a lifelong philanderer, now tamed by age, sitting in his gardens surrounded by his miniature picture collection of beautiful women.
Well, I finished reading the third volume in the Good Earth Trilogy and continue it celebrate the author's insights, building characters identity and interweaving the three/four generations of one family.
There was much to follow but completely worth the reading time.
The books, and this one in particular, highlighted the political issues in China that surfaced, went underground and then resurfaced again.
Youth who joined the revolutions took up causes that their grandparents fought for.
Along with these insights were the changes in youth from generation to another.
It's wonderful to read historical novels that offer such fresh insights into a country's evolution.
What a wonderful end to a wonderful trilogy. Through the eyes of this one family we have seen them go from poverty to riches and power to not quite poverty again. We have seen them go develop their opinion on the common man, from being one of them and hating the rich to being rich and looking down on the poor. This trilogy with its rich variety of beautifully packaged characters provides a intimate view of China as it left feudalism and empire into revolution and re-revolution. This is a must read on any list of "100 Must Reads".
He ends up in a city anyway (probably Nanjing), gets an education, becomes a revolutionary (probably a Nationalist), hides in America for a while (probably California) and returns to become a teacher.
Buck is concerned with how people and societies undergo chage, and how it affects them emotionally as the years wear on.
He never really rises to any situation, but is just less terrible than some of the people around him, which is a disappointing note to end on.
চাষি ওয়াং লাং যে পরিশরম আর মাটির আশীরবাদে ভাগয পরিবরতন করেছিল সে ছোট ছেলের জনয ভেবেছিল বাবার ভাগযে বয়ে আনা জমি দেখা শুনা করবে, সেই ছেলে জমিকে ঘৃণা করে বাড়ি থেকে পালিয়ে গিয়েছিল। ওয়াং দযা টাইগার সাহস-বুদধি-শকতি দিয়ে হয়ে উঠেছিল জেনারেল। তারও সবপন ছিল নিজের বিশাল সেনাবাহিনীর দায়িতব তার ছেলে হাতে তুলে দিবে। শৈশব-কৈশোরে যুদধের সকল শিকষা দেয়া হয় তাকে। কিনতু সেই ছেলে যুদধ ঘৃণা করতো। তাই সে যে কোনো সেনাবাহিনীতে থাকতে অসবীকৃতি জানায়। এখানেই শেষ হয়ে ছিল আগের দুটো পারট। এ গলপ ওয়াং ইয়ান এর। যে যুদধ ভাল বাসে

This book brings the trilogy into a very different context, telling the story of Wang Yuan in the coastal city and then in America. There is a sharp contrast between the values and lifestyles of the three generations which becomes clear in this novel. The events seem to proceed more quickly than in the preceding two books.
Here we meet Wang Yuan (grandson of Wang Lung, the main character of the Good Earth) a young man who is bit lost between the old and new in China.
The story mainly shows the growth of Wang Yuan as a man who can continue the legacy of Wang Lung who by the end of the story is left to make a very important decision.
One problem I found was that many of the Wang Yuan's conflicts, interests and loves are left unresolved at the end of the story.
It may suggest the continuation of the characters beyond the novel as many of the great novels has open ends.

I read this straight after reading the second in the series - Sons.
I wonder if I would have enjoyed it more if I'd taken the break between the two.
I rarely read to two books of the same series end to end as I find I need a break between them.
However for various reasons I took this on straight after Sons.I enjoy Buck's writing style.
It's almost like reading a story that has been written down exactly as it was told to the transcriber.While I did enjoy this, I found myself becoming increasingly frustrated and annoyed at Yuan's self centerdness and his continual moaning and complaining.
As I read this Book, I could not forget the sacrifices Wang Lung and O-Lan made to provide the basis of the family fortune.
Their money changed the family's life options, providing many opportunities, choices and conflicts that would not have been present in a subsistence-living peasant family.
China and the world changed too.
Much of the book deals with these choices, conflicts and changes as encountered by Wang Yuan, Wang Lung's grandson.
Wang Yuan had a troubled relationship with his father and at times his environment.
I also enjoyed an inside view of China and it's changing culture during times of revolution.
(Or at the least, I liked Yuan more than his father.)Similar to some of the other reviews, I did not like how the book ended feeling "unresolved" - or, right when it felt like Yuan's life was getting good.
It's also atypical of Buck that she ended the book when Yuan was still youngish - all of Buck's other books end when the protagonist is old and close to the end of his life.As always, I continue to be amazed at Buck's insight into a culture and people that were not her own - or even her time.
A House Divided (House of Earth Trilogy, Book III) by Pearl Buck (there may be spoilers!)A House Divided, first published in 1935, continues the story of the House of Wang Lung, which began with Wang Lung’s wedding in The Good Earth, and continued with the story of Wang Lung’s funeral, and the way his sons’ paths differed from their father in Sons.
The third novel focuses on Wang Yuan, the son of Wang the Tiger, Wang Lung’s youngest son, who had left home to become a soldier, and who, over the course of the second novel, had become a warlord of some reputation.
Membaca buku ini semula saya mengharapkan untuk mendapatkan gambaran secara utuh tentang trilogi ini.
Buku ketiga bercerita tentang Wang Yuan, putra Wang si Macan.
Dan seolah memperjelas judulnya, buku ini jelas bercerita tentang kehancuran dan kebangkrutan keluarga Wang.
Perubahan politik di China, perubahan structure masyarakat, dan lemahnya personality dari anak cucu keluarga Wang turut mempercepat kehancuran mereka.
Membaca buku ini memberikan rasa pedih dan kecewa karena banyak memceritakan kepahitan hidup generasi akhir keluarga Wang.
Tapi Buck tak kehilangan sentuhannya untuk menceritakan kisah dengan runtut dan detail.
Mungkin karena terlalu runtut, di beberapa bagian malah terkesan membosankan.Tetapi sebagai pelengkap buku ini layak di baca.
Book #3 is a great wrap up to the Good Earth trilogy.
The main character Yuan is moving around a lot more, even going abroad.
We get a real dose of Western attitudes in this book as well as more emphasis of the younger generation's desire for revolution.
It was interesting to see the characters decide what a true revolution is and whether or not it's a good thing.
All in all, Book #3 was a satisfying end to the trilogy and I'm so glad I found Buck's work.
