https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/886229.R_Is_for_Rocket
A lovely thin hardcover with illustrations lived in my room through my childhood and teenage years.
At least once a year I would revisit 'R is for Rocket', again and again listening to the forlonrn blare of the preshistoric monster from the deep, fly in Bodoni's virtual rocket, pop 'food pills' and race to the local space-port to watch rockets blast off.
Some day I'll try to pay my respects by writing fiction in which people travel through space in rockets, it rains on Venus, Mars has crumbling crystal cities, and boys dream of flying through space.
Leave me with any Ray Bradbury book, and it will quickly be devoured it short, neat order.
You're never sure what you're going with Bradbury.
But one thing's certain about his short story collections: you're going to get some duds.
But I can say without hesitation that R is for Rocket has fewer duds than any of his other books, The Illustrated Man included.
They're haunting, funny, surprising, gorgeously written, and yes, sometimes fiendishly annoying: "He rose in the air against the clouds like a magical exclamation point." But all too tempting to read out loud to those willing to listen and especially to those who aren't (though it's not easy reading a book called R is for Rocket in public).
“It’s the rich who have dreams and rockets!” … “No, Bodoni, buy a new wrecking machine, which you need, and pull your dreams apart with it, and smash them to pieces.”The old man subsided, gazing at the river in which, drowned, images of rockets burned down the sky.“Good night,” said Bodoni.“Sleep well,” said the other.I have read and loved Ray Bradbury’s stories for over forty years because his prose is beautifully delivered and because, as a dreamer myself — who often reaches too high for his own good — I identify deeply with his wonderfully tragic heroes.
Bradbury is one of our more prolific and short-story-collected writers, and the older I get the happier I am not to remember all of the repeats.
On the back of this hardcover first edition is the young smiling Bradbury which we don't often see.
The introduction is a poignant reflection of the young boy Bradbury was - the boy who used to look at the night sky and wonder about the stars.
He dedicates this collection to all boys who wonder about the stars.
The only edit I'd make this book - to all people who wonder about the stars.
Before I tell you what I thought of this book, I should note that this is only my second Ray Bradbury book, after Fahrenheit 451.
I really, really loved Fahrenheit too.This book was both good and bad, since it was full of short stories.
Seventeen short stories in all and most were science fiction, Bradbury's specialty.These were my favorites and the reasons why:The Fog Horn - Loch Ness is in love with a foghorn.
What is there not to like?The Long Rain - By far the most horrifying of all the stories in this book.
It still keeps me up at night....The Exiles - I thought of Fahrenheit 451 when I read this.
Some of the stories are dated but the prose is not. If you loved the Martian Chronicles, you will love this book.
So it turns out I just don't like Ray bradbury very much.
I think it might be because he writes from the heart and I prefer stories of the head.
There is a sentimentality to things like October Tree (and many of these stories) that means a lot to many people but feels contrived and cheesy to me.
Many of these stories are about nuclear families where the dad loves rockets.
Or the boy loves rockets.
However there were a few stories I did like--Long Rain in particular was cool.
So I think I'm done with Bradbury, sad as I am to realize it.
(I no longer remember what the other book was I wanted, maybe one of the Greg Irons illustrated dinosaur coloring books.) That afternoon, back at home, my father took me on the deck in the shadow of our house, and read "A Sound of Thunder" to me.
It had some of the dinosaur stories in it—my precious "Sound of Thunder" and "The Fog Horn"—plus a number of scifi-ish things about rockets, and a couple tales about summer in Green Town.
One thing I'd never remembered noticing before about Bradbury's stories is how hopeful they are.
Back when I first read both of them in high school, I used to think of Bradbury in the same breath as Asimov.
Only later in the collection does it become apparent that he is questioning this mindset, and he ends with two very earthy, non-scifi stories that deal only in pleasant feelings of childhood.After not reading Bradbury in a long time, I think I'm going to have to go revisit more of his stuff.
Bradbury stories deserve these editions and they glorify my bookshelves now.
I grabbed this book and read it after hearing the news.There are great and famous stories here.
A Sound of Thunder...a great little time-travel story famous for creating "the butterfly effect".
The Long Rain....a great story too.
The Golden Apples of the Sun.....a really short but brilliant piece about reaching out and not only touching but bringing a piece of the sun back....I could go on and on....every story is fantastic.
There are no bad Bradbury stories or novels.
Rejoice we can still read them and find that special place that only Ray Bradbury could take us to.
This is possibly the best book I've read all year.
These are the sorts of stories that remind me why I love science fiction: not only do they evoke a sense of joy and wonder at the amazing universe we live in, but Bradbury's writing is poetic, gets under your skin and is a joy to read.The stories are true Golden Age stuff, all food pills, bubble cars and rocket ships.
Most of them invoked the rocket as a symbol of freedom, the future and hope and even in the ones where it was absent, these themes recurred.
Bradbury will always be the quintessential space-themed sci-fi writer for me.
His descriptions of space - of the feelings and dreams associated with it - are without equal, and this short fiction collection contains a number of excellent stories that epitomize his style.
However, like any collection of short fiction, it does have its weak points.
"Here There Be Tygers" is a great example: an ongoing analogy of an unstable planet as a woman - fickle and fake.
Still, a recommended collection for those looking to broaden their reading of classic sci-fi and a great example of Bradbury's inimitable, vast, haunting, spacey prose.
Yeah, this is a thing now.
Bradbury before bedtime.
And I continue to be thrilled by it even as I continue to not bother explaining in these five-star reviews precisely WHY you ought to read short stories by Ray Bradbury.
Because I shouldn't have to.
It's Ray Bradbury.
You should know already that it's awesome and the approximate reasons why, even if you've yet to actually read any of his work.And; If you haven't read any of his work, hang your head in shame.
Then go buy some of his work and read it.
This is important cultural information, people, it's important that you have at least a working knowledge of it!
Farewell summer, Ray Bradbury. Got the news just as I finished reading this book.
Having always thought of Ray Bradbury as a science fantasy/horror writer, it was illuminating to see him achieve in this collection some pure science fiction magic.
Some of the tales are more fantasy - for example, Uncle Einar, one of the few duds - but the ones that take place on other planets are science fiction every inch of the way.
Fire and Ice, which takes place on a Mercury-like world (I don't recall that Bradbury actually characterised it as Mercury) is a riveting tale with hope, aspriation and determination in spades.
And let's not forget The Fog Horn, also wistful and taking place right here on Earth.
He was a poet of the human spirit in a way few writers could match.
It'd be like being upset that Frankenstein is based around reanimating a corpse with lightning.What I love best about this collection is that he can go from (beautifully written) golly-gee-whiz sentimentality to creepy darkness with the flick of a pen (an ability best seen, probably, in Something Wicked This Way Comes).
He writes the way I wish I could.
Ray Bradbury was one of my favorite authors growing up, and this collection reminded me why....but I also forgot how sad some of his stories could be, so not they aren't always a picker upper.
But isn't that the best thing about short stories?
You can move past one and then always go back to it later.The saddest story was "The Fog Horn" and the next saddest was "The Rocket Man"; and the most disturbing were the "The Long Rain" and "A Sound of Thunder"....my favorite and the most uplifting to me (and with the fastest pace) was "Frost and Fire".
Wonderful. Some of the stories here are Bradbury's best, it's a really good read that keeps you in a nostalgia bubble.The stories in my personal ranked1. Here there be tygers2. Frost and fire3. The Rocket man4. A sound of thunder5. The Exiles6. The Long Rain7. F for Rocket8. The Rocket9. The Gift10. Uncle Einar11. The Fog Horn12. The Time Machine13. The Sound Of Summer Running14. The Golden Apples ofthe Sun15. The Strawberry Window16. The End of the Beginning 17. The Dragon
Found this lovely old beat up mass market paperback at a warehouse sale. I threw it in my bag for practically free. It is the perfect little book to put in my work bag to read on breaks. There are 17 individual stories, where each one can easily be read over a lunch break. There is plenty of value of keeping the little book around to re-read the stories. They are varied and touch most of the different kind of sci-fi and fantasy realms.
Some of these stories have stayed with me nearly 40 years. Great to meet them again. Others I doubt meant as much to me at that age as they do now, especially the last story, about a pair of sneakers in a shop window, but really about boyhood.
Once again Bradbury never disappoints with writing another great collection of short stories. Best Stories: The Fog Horn, The Rocket, The Rocket Man, A Sound of Thunder, The Long Rain, The Exiles, Frost, and Fire.
Filled to bursting with that SF Sense of Wonder. A classic. Read it!
Wonderful, as always.
Cute stories. His female characters lack depth. They are merely worried mothers, subservient girlfriends, or just non existent.
some stories are unforgettable. some are filler.
What's the point?????
It's hard to believe I first read this book 55 years ago. A wonderful collection of short sci-fi stories.
Some very interesting and thought provoking stories.
Fantastic! So many great short stories!
Like The Martian Chronicles R is for Rocket are space stories; tales about what's going on out there and tales about the process of getting there. A collection of Bradbury's best.
