https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88076.Joseph_and_His_Brothers
1492 pages + introductions, that's my high water mark, the biggest single book I've ever read by a considerable margin.
This is Mann's masterpiece, not The Magic Mountain, estimable though that book is.
Of course, I haven't read them all, merely this one, Magic Mountain, and Buddenbrooks, so how can I possibly make that determination?
It's an historical novel and a novel of ideas (BIG ideas, perhaps the biggest), but at its heart it is a family drama, more Buddenbrooks than The Magic Mountain.And what a family are these sons of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
It's Mann, though -- you can tell by the gentle irony, massive doses of description, ridiculous depth of knowledge, and of course the old man's authorial crush on his pretty boy proto-ubermensch, proto-Christ, super-Jew protagonist, Joseph.
Joseph is thrown into a well by his brothers -- a scene that rivals (maybe even surpasses) the one in The Magic Mountain when Hans is lost in the snow while skiing -- and sold into slavery, but it's all ultimately part of a playful "holy game" God plays on the brothers.
The way Mann tells it, it doesn't matter if you know the story or not because that's the point of a myth--that it exists outside of time, and therefore it recurs...
In this book, Mann was able to do justice to that idea of recurrence, because he was able to bring out the humanity in the characters behind the story so that for the first time I could clearly see the complex psychologies, the cultural, historical, and/or personal reasons behind all of the surface action.
4.5/5 For it is good, consoling, and useful that phrases of lamentation from the early days of beleaguered humanity are preserved and lie at the ready, suitable for later and present occasions as if made for them, in order to ease the pain of life to whatever extent words can ease it, so that one may make use of them and join one's suffering with ancient and ever-present pain. I take religion seriously. My being an atheist doesn't mean I can't recognize the worth of belief's various forms, for w
For it is good, consoling, and useful that phrases of lamentation from the early days of beleaguered humanity are preserved and lie at the ready, suitable for later and present occasions as if made for them, in order to ease the pain of life to whatever extent words can ease it, so that one may make use of them and join one's suffering with ancient and ever-present pain.
The thing about this story that Mann stretched to nearly 1500 pages of epic is, it's about Jewish people.
Also, black Jewish people exist), but I still want it.
Having developed a taste for Thomas Mann and a hobby reading modern reworkings of biblical themes, I was quite pleased to obtain a copy of the tetrology, Joseph and His Brothers, during the last semester in college.
I was even more pleased during the reading of it.Mann wrote Joseph during the rise of Nazism in his homeland, finishing it during his North American exile.
1420-1320 BCE by his calculation and his representation of the times in the Middle East and Egypt is quite plausible.
His representation of the Hebrew mythical imagination and tradition, however, is outstanding.
After a good 1,500 pages, Mann leaves this becoming curiously arrested.
Nonetheless, through the use of irony and the interplay of ideas he's able to create a dizzying labyrinth.
There were times reading it when I got hopelessly bogged down, all momentum grinding to a halt.
I'd still say Magic Mountain is probably Mann's greatest novel.
It's the one where he was most successful at wedding the demands of the novel with the philosophical essay, making ideas novelistic.
Without sacrificing any complexity, Mann is able to give an incredibly moving depiction of forgiveness.
In fact, one of the ways in which Mann succeeds so admirably in this book is in his detailed reading of the scriptures, and his insistence in ensuring that every tiny detail is incorporated into the story.
While Mann does not go out of his way to ensure that details of everyday life are during the time are fully explored, what he instead focuses on is creating an accurate, living philosophical portrait of the time.It should be stated though, while Mann is definitely interested in demythologizing the biblical narrative, he is not in fact attempting to discount it, or dismiss it out of hand.
Lengthy retelling of the Joseph story from the Bible that I borrowed from the University library at the end of term and read outside on stone benches moving about from one to another trying to catch the sun.I think I must have missed something about this book, it seemed rather unremarkable and didn't fit in with any other Mann book that I had read.
The fraternal rivalries for the father's (apparently rather limited store of) affection seemed to echo Mann's own family dynamic.
The idea that Potiphar's wife represented Mann himself is vaguely interesting but currently I see no reason to return to it.
Deep is the well of the past. Should we not call it bottomless?-Opening linesThis is the fastest I've ever read 1500 pages. Review to come eventually, if at all.
My parents bought a subscription to a magazine series at my request; I rapidly transitioned from hoarding statuettes and drawing images to learning myth and hieroglyph, reading The Pyramid and Coffin Texts, The Book of Coming Forth by Day, Rosetta Stone ramification to other ancient cultures, Greece, Rome, though with preference for the Near East, the cradle of civilization, eventual incorporation of China, then the history of humanity, especially the diachronic linguistic, then neurology, cognitive science.
In certain sense a summation of the entire corpus, this chapter flings us into the time surrounding the period that Mann has chosen to ground our Hero's journey, interpreted as the past, the underworld, the land of Egypt, the North downriver, much as Joseph sees all as one and one as all.
This book -- I read the Lowe-Porter translation -- is probably the closest I have come in my adult years.
It takes the story of Joseph and makes it seem as real and as natural as if it were happening in front of you.
This book is a window on to a very old magic.
This is a long book, but patient study will find its reward.
I spent the better part of a year reading it.
I loved having this book going on in my life, and one day, maybe soon, I'll go there again.
I've lost count of the number of times I've read Mann's magnum opus.
It is enormous, sustaining, and deeply satisfying on scales both immense and minute, no matter how many times you read it.
H.T. Lowe-Porter's was done contemporanously with the four-part original publication in German, from 1936 to 1944.
Lately Lowe-Porter has come under considerable popular criticism for her translations of Mann's works, particularly for her censorship of Death in Venice.
Her translation of Joseph and His Brothers has been criticized for her use of phrasing and cadences reminiscent of the King James Bible that don't occur in the original German and which Woods avoided.
This is easily the best, most beautifully written book I've ever read.
Of zelfs van zijn ‘waarheidskarakter’: de voortdurende ironie van de verteller maakt alles in deze roman enorm dubbelzinnig en zwevend, en de boodschap daarachter ZOU maar zo eens kunnen zijn dat er geen eenduidige Hoogste Waarheid IS.Die boodschap meen ik ook te proeven in de wijze waarop de mythische vertelstof wordt gepresenteerd.
Een parabel lijkt door zijn bondigheid nog drager van een hogere waarheid die ‘het woeden der wereld’ ontstijgt, maar bij Mann wordt het woeden der wereld juist uitvergroot omdat het mythische verhaal zo enorm volgepropt wordt met bonte en tegenstrijdige details.
Thomas Mann has developed the rather short Bible story about Isaac, Jacob and Joseph into 4 books, 1300 pages in total.
Mann adds we cannot but forgive Joseph because his actions are provoked by his sense (rather certainty) to be blessed (by this father and by God), to be destined, what makes everything he does and has to undergo into a part of a much broader, divine story.
Perhaps it's a kind of biblical irony when in the end not Joseph appears to be the chosen one, but the modest and sinful Juda.I agree, Mann his written a monumental work, but I cannot really sympathize with it, nor with Joseph.
Found the third volume at home.
Started to read out of curiosity.
Got addicted pretty fast.
Mann is a genius.
He captures in an incredibly credible way the atmosphere of the egyptean and archaic jewish societies.The fact that I knew the story did not make me want to read less of it but rather the opposite.
In fact I soon discovered that I was reading not to find out what's happening, but rather to find out how things happened...
I must mention that I am reading a romanian translation which is so good that at times I wonder if the book reads as good in the original :) Respect to Petru Navodaru, the translator.
Saw this big fat Everyman hardcover at the store yesterday and coveted it, but it was $42 or $45 or something like that. With tax, that will be well nigh on $50. Maybe I should just bite the bullet and get it...think of it as four novels...
Should we not call it bottomless?"With this beginning Thomas Mann creates a monumental novel based on the story of Joseph in Genesis.
By the time you have read more than two hundred pages and Joseph is yet to be born you begin to realize just how monumental this novel will be.
Jacob's sojourn in Mesopotamia (hiding from the wrath of Esau) is paralleled with Joseph's life in Egypt (exiled by the jealousy of his brothers), and on a smaller scale his captivity in the well.
The two remaining sections take Joseph to Egypt and the court of the Pharaoh through to his reunion with his father and brothers.
Here lay the origin of the covenant that the Lord made with Abraham and that was merely the explicit confirmation of an inner reality; this was also, however, the origin of the peculiar quality of Abram's fear of God. For since God's greatness was indeed something terrible and real outside him and yet at the same time coincided in some sense with his own soul and was indeed its product, Abram's fear of God was not fear alone in the true sense of the word -- it was not only trembling and quaking, but also attachment, intimacy, and friendship, all in one.
A monumental feat of historical and biblical world building, Joseph achieves its ambitious goal of 'realizing' the incredulous lives of Jacob and his sons.
At times the density, with multitudes of names in different tongues of old gods, can confound, and the last part in Egypt can be a slog, unless of course you're an ancient Egyptian religion and culture scholar.
It's surprising more writers haven't conducted similar biblical exercises, but it did take Mann decades to finish this.
In the end, he calls his story "an invention of God", as though the story, no matter how 'real' it may be, is of divine import.
All I can say is that if you are feeling up for a long read, and probably if you have read something by Mann before (maybe The Magic Mountain), I heartily encourage you to try "Joseph.""Joseph" is a retelling of the biblical story of Joseph the son of Jacob.
The Bible story itself is very factual, and you can barely get a sense of the characters by reading between the lines.
Mann's genius is to see the deep characters that must lie behind the story, and to fill in their motivations and characteristics so that the events actually told in the Bible make more sense.
Mann really gives his language a biblical feel, though still modernized.
Although, I thought this was a story I was pretty familiar with and I come to find out some of what was new to me wasn't even stuff Mann made up.
Mann does a great job of seamlessly integrating some of his invention with that of the bible.
You could have a game show "Is it God or is it Mann?" Then, at other points that are so much more clearly Mann you get some really interesting doubts on points from the bible story, application of more comprehensive myth cycles and archetypes, and all sorts of other goodies.
The story of the bible is the point of departure for a beautiful analysis of humanity, full of humour and grandeur.
The book is big and one has to read it carefully to enjoy it completely.
Every sentence is a jewel, every passage is full of simple life elements that wonder and links us to the past to a point were we conclude that being human is a universal experience, independent of time and space.
This is all blended in with a carefull historical research, a detailed reading of the Bible and of the sacred texts.
An incredible achievement! Mann considered this his best work and I agree. While not a quick or easy read, the rhythms carry you along page after page and in my case month after month. I savored the writing while enjoying Mann's extended exegesis on time, myth, story telling, history, religion, belief, etc. etc. What a shame this is not better known although the new translation should help considerably.
Perfectly... fine, in parts. Did we really need quite so much of it? No. Could I have done without most of the overt symbolism and so on? Yes. Does the structuralist-like analysis of the myths do anything for the book? No. Does it help me to understand the Joseph story in new and fascinating ways; does it have moments of true glory; can you skim huge chunks without missing anything of any importance whatsoever? Yes.
Thank you, TM.365 Tage, so viele Male, wie Joseph oder Yusuf, Sohn des Jakobs, Ururenkel des Abrahams - ausgestattet mit dem anmutigen Antlitz seiner Mutter, die so hübsch und schön war wie der Mond, wenn er voll ist, und wie Ischtars Stern, wenn er milde im Reinen schwimmt - den Menschen in verschiedener Ausdrucksform gute Nacht wünschen kann, dauerte meine leidenschaftliche Affäre nicht an, aber immerhin gut und gerne 270 Tage.
Doch nicht der schöne Joseph war es, der mir den Kopf verdrehte, so wie er einst die Glut der stolzen Mut-em-enet, Gemahlin eines hohen Beamten des Pharaos, entfachte, sondern der Autor selbst: Thomas Mann mit seiner Nacherzählung des Propheten Joseph aus dem Alten Testament, Kapitel 37-50, und aus dem Koran, Sure 12, in "Joseph und seine Brüder".
The first two parts were cult material for me and put this book up alongside Dostoyevsky and Moby Dick in my five most significant.
Less so once in Egypt.
I read the H.T. Lowe-Porter and lapped up the biblical style but thought Mann grew increasingly diffuse, to less purpose as we dwell in Egypt.
(translation notes near the end) I see the diffuseness may not be Mann's.
Woods translation.
It took me about four weeks to complete the Joseph Tetralogy.....all 1500 pages! I found the whole work wonderous and a joy to read. If anyone is intimidated by the length, don't be. Allow yourself the time to enter Joseph's world. Looking back on it now, I think what Mann does to "flesh-out" Potipher's wife is probably my favorite invention. To get to the heart of what eventually destroys her house hold is a heart breaking story. A great deal of the book is Jacob story as well.
not really finished. a massive work i wasnt up to. i will return!
If ever I'm asked what my favourite book is, I now have an unequivocal answer. I cannot recall any greater pleasure from reading. This is a six-star masterpiece. I'm incapable of doing it justice in a review. Of course it's not for everybody. One must have patience, one must be prepared to stop and savour this book along the way, pause for thought, digest it, consider it. Joseph and His Brothers challenges the reader, but not in the way that, say, Ulysses does. Joseph and His Brothers is beautiful and erudite. It is a joy. Take the time. Read it.
