https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/406464.The_Search_for_Significance
I had no idea just how much my living, reacting, and responding to many things was out of my past until God showed me through this material.
In fact, I am resolved, committed, more than I have ever been.To break free from a performance-oriented approach to life flies in the face of everything in our culture and, sadly enough, in our churches often times.
God has transformed my life and my ministry and this book has been pivotal, helping me to understand scriptural teachings that I didn't have clarity about.
My pastor's wife gave this to me today - it could not have come at a better time. That was not an accident. Very timely book for me and a lot of rich content. I will re-read this again and again. When my children are older - I'd also like them to read it and start out with a better perspective of true success than I did.
The Search for Significance falls under "Christian self-help." It covers four core fears/lies people believe about themselves:-I must meet certain standards to feel good about myself.-I must be approved by certain others to feel good about myself.-Those who fail are unworthy of love and deserve to be punished.-I am what I am.
I cannot change.
I am worthless.and then uses Scripture to address each belief.
The author is a counselor; I suspect this book is a culmination of his counseling techniques.
The self-reflection quizzes and questions are helpful for processing as you read; the workbook at the back is helpful for self-awareness, healing, and growth.
This book has potential, but it is too focused on the ego. The emotional aspect of this book is distracting. The author wants you to embrace the fullness of justification in God. That is a wonderful thing, and in many places he does it well. However, McGee seems to makes this more egocentric rather than christocentric. I would still recommend it to someone struggling with self-worth.
"The Search for Significance" is a study about what we usually do to try to feel significant versus the truths in God's Word about where to find our true significance.
Those who hope to find happiness and significance through meeting certain standards or gaining approval from certain people will find that it doesn't last.
This book helps you to identify where you currently look for significance, explores the Bible for the truth about how God sees us, and teaches us how to replace lies with truth.
This is truly a life-changing book, and I've read it several times.
This is probably my favorite book of all-time.
Perhaps because of its relevance to me at the time of reading it.
I read it during college, when I was really seeking to find purpose and acceptance in my life.
This book brings to light the universal lies that trigger our feelings of self-doubt and unworthiness.
It is important to remain focused and aware of the fact that we all serve a greater purpose as God's children and that he created us all with the greatest amount of significance possible!
Such a refreshing book, I occasionally will reread parts of it and it speaks to me every time!
This book is like the bible to me. Which is heretical, so I won't say that- but almost. It's life changing. I read it whenever I am insecure or unsure of God's love for me. Read it!
No fluff here, only steak and potato Christian doctrine. Informative for newer Christians and a great reminder for more seasoned Christians.
Maybe 3.5 stars. I expected to like it better, and it contains lots of solid, scriptural guidance on being all God designed us to be.Then why the low rating? Because less than a hundred pages of substance is diluted by over two hundred pages of anecdotes, Reader's Digest-style self evaluations and study guides. Not that any of those were bad, but they distracted from the real material.Still, a good read.
A powerful book! :)
What a wonderful book, and I won this book through a Goodreads give away . Truth, if that is what you want here it is. Beautiful .
The sort of "snap out of it" mentality is just the very thing that had lead to some of my specific ideation, that said, this book is one of the WORST books to put into a person's hands who is suffering from a Psychotic episode due to Depression.Edit to add: The subjects that this book spent most time on were not subjects that I am currently struggling with and, though irrelevant, were also discussed in a shallow and dismissive manner.
As a guide for the average person with vague experiences of low self esteem and mental and emotional anguish, this is a book that can help with a Christian Slant.
I had to read this book for a Seminary class. However, I found it very helpful. The book hits upon various issues a saint will face in his walk with God and spiritual struggles. The part of the book that impacted me the most was the last three chapters that touched upon issues dealing with overcoming the deception we let ourselves fall into over and over and how to come out of that. It is similar to what I have seen in Cognative Therapy, but this touches upon the spiritual renewing of our minds. Very good.
Mr. McGee is a super-smart guy who conveys his message well. That alone warrants four stars. And he certainly offers readers five stars' worth of Jesus. However, given that I actually felt LESS significant and even MORE condemned AFTER reading it, I can only cough up a three-star rating. It's awesome that McGee's book has seemingly helped so many people. But for me, I walked away from the experience learning only that, no matter what, even when I'm right -- I'm wrong.
This book should be read by every Christian! It talks about getting our self worth from God and not from our performance or others' opinions of us. The fist half is the book and the second half is the workbook. It will touch your heart and encourage your soul! I am so glad to be free from Satan's bonds of lies.
Hit home for me, big-time. The book was given to me over 12 years ago, and I keep coming back to it. I'll occasionally meet folks who struggle with the same core equation McGee defines in the book, (performance + the approval of others = significance), and recommend it wholeheartedly. Love the worksheets the book comes with as well.
This book very neatly and thoroughly combated lies that many Christians believe that prevent us from understanding who we are in Christ. It was easy to follow, grounded in scripture, and brought together the things God has been teaching me over the last 2-3 years about who I am in Him.
I read this book with five other women in Mercywalk and it was a true healing process. I need to read it again.
The prefect book for Christian that suffer from addiction to the praise of others. Practical biblical insight into the lies that we tell ourselves to make us feel better.
A great book. Deals with the i thought were with me only. Ps. i recommend it to everybody
a challenging and important read. Quite possibly, one of the best books on who we are in God and His truth that I've ever read (and worked through). Highly recommended.
This book began my journey to understand that God loves me and that I matter to Him.
Life-changing potential! Great book to read, study and re-read.
Wonderful book of rich, applicable, life changing counsel, with its foundation in scripture! We cannot change our own lives in our own strength or by our own wisdom! McGee is so good about pointing everything back to the truths of scripture, the truths of Christ and the truths of the gospel and how these truths are the only things that can bring joyful, lasting change to our lives; and teach us our true identity in Christ!
This book may be very helpful for someI had some minor differences with the author and struggled through some sections due to how triggering they were (particularly one situation the author describes where he counseled a woman to stay within an abusive situation with her boss so she could learn to identify the lies she had believed from her past).
Listened to an abridged version of the book. One of the main take aways for me was the book's insight that too often I base my self worth on my performance plus others' opinion of me. Through accepting and trusting in what Christ has done, I can be free to find my significance and self worth in Him.
Great practical classic book to help us learn how to gain our sense of value from God alone! I love his tips and tools for examining the lies we’ve come to believe and replacing them with God’s truth!
Replacing Satan’s lies with God’s truth is so powerful. This book outlines 4 major lies that we do easily buy into every day and clearly lines out Gods truth in face of each lie and the freedom that comes with God’s truth.
Really good - I feel like I'm going to have to come back to this one again and again.
I had high hopes for this book but it didn’t come through. Like so many Christian self-help texts, it lacked concrete action items and was very lean in scriptural references.
