https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/828196.Tarzan_and_the_Golden_Lion
In this volume Tarzan gets a pet lion, but there's also another plotline about a race of intelligent gorillas worshiping a lion in a lost city.
There's like a new lost city every volume.
However, in a way that's very interesting, as when when these books were written in the early twentieth century, lost cities in Africa were probably a very possible thing.We have another plotline where Tarzan's former maid is leading an expedition of shady Europeans through Africa in order to loot the fabled city of Opar, where Tarzan gets his gold.
Tarzan, in his spare time, takes up the task of taming and training an orphaned lion.
Having a lion on one's side can be a very useful thing to one who frequently, to the dismay of his wife, traverses the treacherous jungles of Africa.
Tarzan has come to the realization he's going to need more money, if he's to keep his estates and continue to live the mostly civilized life he's become accustomed to.
Of course, this is a Tarzan story and things seldom work out as planned.
Doppelgangers, lost civilizations, and a former lady's maid all have it out for him this time.

I’m still hooked on this series.
For me, this one was especially nostalgic because it was my very first Tarzan novel, one that I first read way back when I was about 10 years old.
My Tarzan experiences and expectations up to that point were based solely on cartoons, the funny pages, and perhaps a clip or two from a Johnny Weissmuller film, none of which depicted Tarzan as Lord Greystoke, an intelligent and forward thinking being.This has been my “year of Tarzan”, a decision I embarked on back in January when I discovered this year (2018) was the 100th anniversary of the first Tarzan movie, a silent movie produced and released in 1918.
Tarzan is my guilty pleasure.
He is at once the big, strong hero as well as the simpleton who falls prey to the pitfalls of other people's greed, hatred, and other perilous sins.
I love the Wiziri tribe who support Tarzan and his family.
The Tarzan stories became more interesting to me this time because I realized that these were written at a time when pro-ceding the Origin of the Species.
Tarzan finds all sorts of humanoid creatures as he travels, primarily, through the Congo.
The ideas for the evolutionary indulgences Burroughs in the human realm is very interesting.
Clear division between the good guys and the bad guys, and they are not divided by color.
And the good guys come in all hues.
Burroughs has a message in here, "the good guys always win." Maybe not always true in real life, but fun to read about.
Tarzan and his family return to Africa to rebuild their devastated estate, but find his friends and allies the Waziri have already started the rebuilding process.
Tarzan finds and adopts an orphaned lion cub and trains him as a feline military animal.
Tarzan goes off to get some gold from the lost Atlantean enclave in Africa.
Good young male reading.
This's a very exiting Tarzan adventure which I like so much. It's full of adventure and lot of close bare-hand combats with wild beasts. Adding to that, there're no boring lost civilizations. And this's the book where we fist encounter Jad-bal-ja, the most fierce ally Tarzan ever had besides his Waziri friends. First few Tarzan books're always entertaining to read
love these books wish i could sit down and read in one sitting instead of pages at a time then fall asleep lol!!
Really liked this book, amazing! 9 books down, 17 to go!
I haven’t read Tarzan and the Jewels of Opar, a story that comes ahead of Tarzan and the Golden Lion.
I won’t tell you lest it act as a spoiler, but you’ll see it coming as surely as you know what will happen with the golden lion.Despite the roaring lion on the cover of my old paperback copy of the novel, I wondered if “golden lion” referred to some sacred idol that was worth a fortune.
But, if that ended the story, the golden lion probably wouldn’t be in the title.What happens to the lion is one of those fortuitous events which happens often in pulp literature.
Tarzan, Jane and their son Jack head home after the adventures in Pal-ul-don recorded in the previous book to find their African estate restored but their fortune diminished due to the war.
So Tarzan heads out on another trip to his ‘bank’: Opar.
But there’s another group of fortune hunters out to get the gold of Opar and they are not as honorable as Tarzan.Boy, this story was all over the place with at least seven different groups running around, splitting up and merging with others and back again.
There’s even a Tarzan impersonator.
Shame on Jane and Korak for not believing Tarzan could raise a lion cub to be tame!
One of his former servants is also trying to get gold from Opar, with a man who looks exactly like Tarzan (and causes Jane some temporary heartbreak because she thinks Tarzan abandons her.
Tarzan escapes from so many almost-death scenarios, no wonder there's a later book called Tarzan the Invincible.
Jane is thought dead for a while, but not half as long as before, and is safe in the arms of Tarzan by the end of the book.
Tarzan rescues a lion cub at the beginning of the story, who grows up, named Jad-bal-ja. They plan another trip to Opar to replenish their gold. But a map has fallen into the wrong hands and so another expedition is set in motion to rob the gold of Opar. And so it goes.
Good Adventure storyI read most of the Tarzan books as a youth and occasionally re-read some of the stories for light entertainment. I avoid violent and gory stuff so these books are sometimes just right.
This book is entertaining but the racism gets out of control, even for a Tarzan novel.
Another good one! Received this for Christmas in 1960 when I was 10. Read a couple of times.
আবারো পূজারিণী লা-এর আসতায় টারজান। লা এর সবামী ও পরধান পুহিত কাদিজ যে কোন মূলযে হতযা করতে চায় টারজানকে। এদিকে টারজান আটকা পড়েছে বোলগানিয়াদের হীরের পরসাদে।উদধারে তার সিংহ জাদ-বাল-জা।
আবারো পূজারিণী লা-এর আস্তায় টারজান। লা এর স্বামী ও প্রধান পুহিত কাদিজ যে কোন মূল্যে হত্যা করতে চায় টারজানকে। এদিকে টারজান আটকা পড়েছে বোলগানিয়াদের হীরের প্রসাদে।উদ্ধারে তার সিংহ জাদ-বাল-জা।
Once again Jane manages to get herself kidnapped, Tarzan gets captured yet again. The formula repeats and repeats.
The Tarzan series has lost its freshness and has become formulaic and could easily be ghost-written with the same generic plot elements re-worked over and over with changes in detail and names.
However, the apeman is still the apeman, his adventures, as always, are a fun romp through the jungle and lost cities, an element of freshness appears here and there to hold the cadres of adoring fans, and I can run through them rather fast, already knowing the route, having been there before.
On the minus side, we have the re-appearance of La and Opar, always my least favorite elements in the Tarzan series.
More pulpy adventure from Burroughs. These Tarzan books are a lot more fun than I ever expected. On their way home after their adventures in Pal-ul-don (Tarzan the Terrible), Tarzan discovers an orphaned lion cub, which he decides to raise as a pet. Jane and Korak think he's crazy -- and, you know, they may be right -- but two years later Tarzan's got that lion well-trained. Meanwhile, Tarzan and Jane find themselves a little short on cash . . .  The war had reduced the resources of the Greystok
Jane and Korak think he's crazy -- and, you know, they may be right -- but two years later Tarzan's got that lion well-trained.
They had given practically all to the cause of the Allies, and now what little had remained to them had been all but exhausted in the rehabilitation of Tarzan's African estate."It looks very much, Jane," he said to his wife one night, "as though another trip to Opar were on the books."
At the same time, Flora Hawkes, a former housekeeper of the Claytons who knows the secret source of Tarzan and Jane's riches organizes a group of mercenaries for her own journey to Opar's treasure vaults.
I, Tarzan of the Apes, have left my jungle and gone to the cities built by men, but always I have been disgusted and been glad to return to my jungle--to the noble beasts that are honest in their loves and in their hates--to the freedom and genuineness of nature.{early atheism}"You have seized the river devil," he said.
It has been long that you have been gone, but though many doubted that you would return, old Muviro knew that the great world held nothing that might overcome his master.
"Tarzan ja kultaleijona" (Karisto, 1950) koostuu oikeastaan kahdesta juonisykeröstä, jotka sitten lopussa yhtyvät toisiinsa.
Ensimmäisessä seurataan Greystoken perheen entisen sisäkön johtamaa koostuvaa roistomaista retkikuntaa, joka pyrkii ryöstämään Oparin kaupungin aarteet.
Seikkailussa oma roolinsa on myös Janella, suosikkipahiksellani don Esteban Mirandalla, ihastuttavalla La-ylipapittarella ja Tarzanin kultaisella lemmikkileijonalla Jad-bal-jalla."Tarzanin ja kultaleijona" on perusvarma romaani, joka ei kuitenkaan pääse yllättämään missään vaiheessa.
Nykylukijan silmin rasismikerroin on tällä kertaa epätavallisen korkealla: mustien lisäksi tyypittelyn kohteeksi pääsevät myös arabit ja juutalaiset.No, jos kirjailijalla on omat sokeat pisteensä, niin ei päähenkilökään täysin virheetön ole, monista yli-ihmismäisistä piirteistään huolimatta.
Nimittäin "jos apinain Tarzanilla oli jokunenkin heikkous, oli se kupponen kahvia myöhään illalla" (s.
I started reading he ERB books in the early 80s and like still like to read on occasionally.
The book is about an expedition by Tarzan to steal some gold from Opar and his encounter with another expedition of Europeans after the same gold.
Pretty unbelievable stuff, but then it always is with Tarzan adventures.
If you like a retro pulp adventure and fantasy then it is hard to go wrong with a quick read of a Tarzan book like this.Warning: there are some pretty racist ideas in all of the Tarzan books!
I find it pretty similar to seeing the old Tarzan movies.
Money is running short following the German's wartime depredations on Tarzan's property, so Tarzan heads back to Opar for a third time, to nick more gold from their hidden treasure vaults.
Things get complicated as a group of Europeans set out with the same idea, bringing with them an actor who impersonates Tarzan well enough to fool the Waziri and even Jane.
Tarzan must save La, priestess of the Flaming God, first from plotters in Opar, and then, with the help of his pet lion, from the gorilla-men who rule the Valley of Diamonds.
(Legend of Tarzan)4/2018 - I remember this as one of my favorites from back in the day and I can see why.
I think this is the first time ERB mentions Tarzan's scar in reference to the childhood fight with Bolgani which is how I always remembered it happening.
During this reread I saw that it was actually from a fight as an adult with one of the apes.
I think ERB forgot and told the story wrong in future books and that's why I remembered it wrong, too.
Hard to keep all of the details straight when you write over 80 books full of so many weird and wacky features.
Tarzan and the Golden Lion (Tarzan #9) by Edgar Rice Burroughs (Ballantine Books 1923)(Fiction). The story opens with Tarzan, bound, drugged, and helpless before the High Priests of Opar. He is rescued once again by La, the high priestess of the Flaming God, who loves Tarzan desperately. Together with a golden lion, Tarzan and La escape into the legendary Valley of Diamonds. Ahead lies a land where apes rule over men, and behind lies the evil Esteban Miranda, a Tarzan look-alike, who plans treachery. My rating: 6.5/10, finished 1972.
Like all the rest of the Tarzan books, Tarzan starts off on another adventure on his way home. I am starting to like the way Burroughs introduces creatures and places that don't exist because he was, simply, running out of room in Africa. Tarzan beings this adventure by befriending a lion cub, trains it, and it eventually comes to his rescue in the City of Diamonds. I do hope in future books Estiban will make a return because the Estiban character was entirely responsible for the twists of this book. Excited to read the next one.
I have read all 24 of the Tarzan books. Read dates are from the mid 1970s through 1982. I thoroughly enjoyed all of the Tarzan books. They made a great escape from high school and college. I still have all 24 books and they are at the top of my book shelf. I thought it was pretty neat to find the actual covers listed on Goodreads and there are no barcodes on the books, plus the cover price ranged from $1.50-1.95 for each book.
Having an actor impersonating Tarzan was a far-fetched plot. I couldn't believe so many people fell for the sham. After all there can only be one magnificent, godlike Tarzan! Even Jane fell for it. Gullible dimwits! Still, the usual enjoyable vine-swinging jungle romp with the Lord of the Jungle, further enhanced by Tarzan's pet lion Jad-bal-ja who kills Bad Guys on command.
