https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13596226-beyond-the-wall-of-sleep
But most of all did he dwell upon some mysterious blazing entity that shook and laughed and mocked him.” Since Joe Slater could neither read nor write, nor was he ever acquainted with legends or fairy tales, the doctors remained baffled as to the basis or root cause of Joe’s visions, concluding the source to be nothing more definite than “abnormal dreams.”Let’s pause here and explore an alternate explanation developed by psychiatrist Carl Jung.
It is based on a passage from an article in The New York Tribune (“How Our State Police Have Spurred Our Way to Fame,” 4/27/19), which uses a particularly degenerate family—the Slaters or Slahters—as a typical example of the decadent dwellers of the remote regions of the Catskills.In Lovecraft’s story, an unnamed intern in a “state psychopathic institution” describes the strange behavior and visions of one Joe Slater (or Slaader) whom he observed and with whom he conversed.
'How little does the earth-self know of life and its extent!'  Dreams play an important role in Lovecraft's stories. This one doesn't belong to Cthulhu mythos. It is about the importance of dreaming and an opinion on what exactly the dreams mean. The narrator labels Freud's dream analysis as silly (puerile is the word used). He allows that some dreams are not that important, but there are others that have deeper meaning, the ones that show us something that most ordinary people wouldn't underst
'We may guess that in dreams life, matter, and vitality, as the earth knows such things, are not necessarily constant; and that time and space do not exist as our waking selves comprehend them.' Told by a narrator who works at an asylum, Beyond the Wall of Sleep tells a story of a disturbed man whose case woke up the narrator's old interest in dreams.
Joe Slater is committed to the asylum where our narrator works.
And he has just the right instruments to do it ('Now, in my intense desire to probe into the dream life of Joe Slater, I sought these instruments again.')
Whilst the greater number of our nocturnal visions are perhaps no more than faint and fantastic reflections of our waking experiences—Freud to the contrary with his puerile symbolism—there are still a certain remainder whose immundane and ethereal character permits of no ordinary interpretation, and whose vaguely exciting and disquieting effect suggests possible minute glimpses into a sphere of mental existence no less important than physical life, yet separated from that life by an all but impassable barrier.Joe Slaader is white trash from the isolated region of the Catskills Mountains...Lovecraft's stories are seriously unsettling yet this one held a wonderment.A month of Halloween 2015 reads:#1: 3* Nobody True by James Herbert: fraudio#2: 4* The Horror Stories of Robert E.
Lovecraft short stories have been stacking up on my kindle since time immemorable (reading slumps make me a tad hyperbolic) & I spotted a decent collection at the library to fill in some of the gaps– fate!
author context and I'm not quite sure whether it was just a matter of that being where my head was at the moment or, as mentioned above, I was just enjoying the previous stories to that extent & seeing such a kinship with modern writing that Lovecraft's era & potential personality didn't factor into things immediately.
I love H.P. Lovecraft but HOLY SHIT he is extremely racist.
Разказите в сборника са познати, четени преди години, разхвърляни във всякакви странни компилации, но на едно място някак добиват допълнително значение, като части от тъмен пъзел за викане на чудовища от непознати селения, които не просто се интересуват от душите ни, но и от всяко парче месо по нас, способно да бъде откъснато, смачкано, сдъвкано и изплюто в лицата ни.За тъмнината в думите на Лъвкрафт, откриващи пътища и двери към измерения на злото и страха е много говорено, включително и от мен.
The story is too short for me to say much without giving it away.
It mostly takes place in an insane asylum, and involves a doctor and a very curious patient from a rural, uneducated community.
The doctor is very curious and tries to understand the patient's dreams.I've always been a bit fascinated by dreams, and I like stories that explore the whole dream-world idea.
So it's a great short read for people who enjoy that theme, but the language is quite dense, so it's not an effortless read.
I've read a few Lovecraft stories.
This unique story stands out to me with a positive insinuation rather than a manipulation of horror.
Lovecraft explains, in fantastic terms (as an atheist), another world exists, and our souls have always been and will always be.
You see the physical manifestation in the stars.
An evil star oppresses life, and many war against It. When people speak and write of Lovecraftian mythos, I realize, they refer to this kind of fictional world-building, set behind stage of our world.
Lovecraft could have started his own religion if he'd lived long, long ago in a country far, far away.
H.P. Lovecraft is not the best writer, but his ideas and imaginations are brilliant. Especially if you consider the time in which they were written.I loved this story. I loved the imagery, and the idea that we are more than just mortal bodies of flesh and bone. However, I must note that I greatly dislike Lovecraft's seeming obsession with "degenerate hill dwellers,""Esquimau diabolists,""white trash,""mongrel Louisianans," etc.
Memo to self on the story, "Beyond the wall of Sleep." 1 star.
I really enjoyed this as a concept. I thought the cosmic entity itself could have been more interesting but looking at the story more abstractly, it was pretty good.
Reading Lovecraft is teaching me how to write fantasy and horror. I enjoy my lessons.
Such a brilliant galactic journey was this short story. So very good
الرجل يحمل بين طيات أسطره كاريزما غير طبيعية، وفي هذه القصة تحديدا، يعتمد بشدة على جو الوثائق وملامسة الرعب، والملامسة أخطر وأكثر شؤما من الغوص في الرعب، تماما كالإثارة الجنسية، التي تكون في قمتها عند التخفيف من الثياب، وليس العري التام !ومازال يرسخ لأسطورته التي تتناثر في كل قصصه، متناولا أفكاره حول كتاب (نيكرونوميكون) الخيالي، والمستنبت من بنات فكره، والذي يؤسس كما يقص علينا للنكرومانسي أو استنطاق الموتي، وهو نوع من السحر الأسود البشع..فكرة لافكرافت عن الرعب كالتالي: أن تكتب عما هو غير حقيقي كما لو أنه حقيقي، لكن ليس بالطريقة المباشرة، بل بالحوم حول الأمر..
عند ذروة المواجهة..
I just love this stuff. '...the insect-philosophers that crawl proudly over the fourth moon of Jupiter.'
It struck me how original this idea must have been back in 1919, an age where there was burgeoning use of electricity and mechanical devices.It cleverly juxtaposes old ideas and this new technology, opening with a line of Shakespeare, yet ending with an idea literally from another world.Lovecraft's novel approach and parkling writing are certainly proving captivating to this new convert to his works.
I've a very weird memory attached with this book! I had read this one during those sleepless nights and then, when I went to sleep, I screamed in my sleep. Everyone woke up with a shudder, but I couldn't remember why I screamed. I was probably having a weird dream about the imagery that was described in this book! It deals with paranoia and schizophrenia in a brilliant way! A weird and amazing experience! Classic Lovecraft horror!
If you like some of Lovecraft's other dream Cycle stories, his Randolph Carter stories, or even Neil Gaiman's Sandman, then you might dig this. It's Lovecraft so you get to talk about insanity, aliens, dreams, and how unimportant we all are in the grand scheme of things. Curl up and read next to the fire with a mug of cocoa and feel nihilistic.
Great read, but now i understand why everyone says Lovecraft was racist... Wow... The story deals with what happens when we sleep, is the body nothing but a cage for a much more powerful entity? Interesting take on the subject. Probably the best of Lovecraft's work I've read until now, of course I'm only just starting.
it was pretty interesting for a short story and inspired me kinda. :)
This one was ok...
As is, “Beyond the Wall of Sleep” could actually be described as an uplifting story; one of Lovecraft’s “brighter” contributions to fiction.RATINGS BY CATEGORYCHARACTERS: 2 out of 5Only one character is described in any detail; a man named Joe Slater who has been confined to a mental institution after committing a horrific murder.
Joe Slater is a kind "mountain man" with no learning or understanding (surprisingly he isn't a racial minority), though there is a point to the casual ruthlessness he is described as it becomes an important contrast with another aspect of his character.PACE: 3 out of 5Lovecraft's writing can be ponderous, even when the story is short, but this one moves along at a good speed.
Surprisingly these seem to give a clear idea of what future texts are like with this tale being about the employee of the Asylum and The Tomb clearly being about someone who should be committed.I also suggest doing some research as there are several stories of his that you may wish to avoid or save for completion due to the narrative being overtly racist(and therefore difficult for some folk)I also highly suggest tracking down Jeffrey Combs' reading of the 6 ReAnimator tales.
I read a book by H.
It is quite short comparing to other books I’ve read.
This book isn’t a horror stories we are used to, it’s more about the psychological horror rather than physical monsters.
The narrator tells a story from an asylum about a man named Joe Slater.
The book was very interesting and unusual.
It is a lot different from what I’m used to reading, but I still kind of liked it.
I wouldn’t recommend this to smaller children, because it’s kind of scary and wouldn't be interesting to them.
Lovecraft was far ahead in his time seeing the relation between our mundane daily lives, and our unconscious dreams, saying:  "there are still a certain remainder whose immundane and ethereal character permits of no ordinary interpretation, and whose vaguely exciting and disquieting effect suggests possible minute glimpses into a sphere of mental existence no less important than physical life, yet separated from that life by an all but impassable barrier"The story turns into a classic sci-fi horror where Lovecraft explains, in fantastic terms (as an atheist), another world exists, and our souls have always been and will always be.
You see the physical manifestation in the stars.
“… The alienists soon agreed that abnormal dreams were the foundation of the trouble; dreams whose vividness could for a time completely dominate the waking mind of this basically inferior man…” One intern at the state psychopathic institution then decides to test an apparatus of his own design, a “telepathic radio”, on the poor fella. Result: a glimpse into the Lovecraftian rich universe! My favourite, a reference to the “insect-philosophers that crawl proudly over the fourth moon of Jupiter.“ Flashes of black & white sci-fi oldies jump to mind.
Одного разу в психіатричну лікарню, в якій працює оповідач, доправляють Джо Слейтера. Недобра слава давно його переслідує: прокидаючись, він розповідає дивні речі не менш дивним голосом, а тепер він жорстоко вбив людину, але не пам'ятає, як це трапилося. У закладі за ним постійно спостерігають. Оповідачу вдається скласти докупи розповіді ранкові Слейтера. Джо хоче помститися якійсь сяючій істоті, яка глузує з нього. Йому очевидно бракує слів, щоб описати сни, тому оповідач за допомогою телепатичного пристрою проникає у думки Слейтера.
Let it be known that Lovecraft hates white trash hillbillies just as much as any other lesser race. (The man is an elitist jackass; there is no way around that.) I can't quite discern if this tale of telepathic dreaming is the first appearance of Old Gods, or if the dream beings are something else entirely.(Moved 2015 review to the individual work Sept. 2017 to make room to review the collection under its own entry.)
What if every dream is a small glimpse into another world? An alternate reality? Another life that we have lived or are living simultaneously? Perhaps dreams have more importance than we tend to give them credit for, or perhaps they are nothing more than they are. The mystery is what makes it so alluring.
