https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/401905.Flashman_s_Lady
If there were six stars.This is naughty, laugh out loud funny, completely without rhyme or reason, and wholly brilliant.Flashy is just the perfect antihero and giving him a beautiful, amoral, and completely stupid wife just ups the ante.Go on. I dare you...
(1971)Flashman at the Charge (1973)Flashman in the Great Game (1975)Flashman's Lady (1977)Flashman and the Redskins (1982)Flashman and the Dragon (1985)Flashman and the Mountain of Light (1990)Flashman and the Angel of the Lord (1994)Flashman and the Tiger (1999)Flashman on the March (2005)This is the series in chronological order:Flashman (1839–42)	Royal Flash (1842–43)	Flashman's Lady (1842–45)Flashman and the Mountain of Light (1845–46)Royal Flash (1847–48)	Flash for Freedom!
(1848–49)	Flashman and the Redskins (1849–50)Flashman at the Charge (1854–55)	Flashman in the Great Game	(1856–58)Flashman and the Angel of the Lord (1858–59)Flashman and the Dragon (1860)Flashman on the March	(1867–68)	Flashman and the Redskins (1875–76)The Road to Charing Cross (1878)Flashman and the Tiger (1879)	The Road to Charing Cross (1883–84)The Subtleties of Baccarat (1890 & 1891)Flashman and the Tiger (1894)
Flashy's up to it again ;) I really loved his encounter with James Brooke and his merry men, I'm hoping to see more of them. This is so NOT politically correct, I love it!
I'd never heard of any of these people before this book, and it's always fun to look up the history behind Flashy's bizarre escapades.His wife Elspeth gets caught up in the adventure this time, and it was almost shocking to see Flashman worried about her.
I had to pause each time to work out that "b-----d" was "bastard" and not "bugger" or "bloody", and it took me a while to realize that "C----t" was "Christ", because I was trying to think of an obscenity that fitted.This isn't my favorite of the series, but Flashman is always hilarious and outrageous, and I look forward to reading the next book.
I loved the first Flashman, so decided to give this a try since it is supposedly the second in the chronology, even if it is #6.Any, at first I have to say I was pretty disappointed.
The book starts out with ol' Flashy in England, playing cricket of all things.
It get pretty detailed about the game, which I found dry, especially since I am a Canadian and don't have a clue about it.
There is a few bumps at the start of the book, but well worth the read.
He then goes through all sorts of perils against Borneo pirates, then is enslaved, along with Elspeth on Madagascar.This is the fourth Flashman book I've read, and I have to say, I actually like old Flashy.
Added to that, he did actually risk his own safety to save Elspeth this time around, so I'd say he's less of an anti-hero, and more like a normal bloke, doing what most normal blokes would do in these given situations.
Given the author's own war time experiences, you can be sure his descriptions of the jungle are spot on.
However, when the action shifts to battling pirates in Sarawak and then to trying to stay alive in the mad court of Queen Ranavalona of Madagascar, my enjoyment of the book improved enormously.This instalment also interleaves Flashman's own recollections with diary entries by his wife, Elspeth.
The title of the novel made me initially wonder whether this was going to be The Spy who Loved Me for the Flashman series, but alas no.
Elspeth's diary entries are too brief and too widely-spaced.Still, if you like Flashman, there's so much to like here!
Read for the setting for the geocaching challenge, this was a re-read after many years and it retains it's ability to entertain, though after a few Flashman books, you do start to get something of an ennui. It's an occupational hazard of long-running series' and a very good marker for the notion that all good series' should end somewhere. Of those series' I have had this response to, though, this is one of the marginals rather than a 'definitely should have ended years ago' vote!
Starts off a bit slow what with all the Cricket playing (mystifies a yank like me, you see)but once it gets going this proves to be an excellent entry in the Flashman series. Especially enjoyable are the sections featuring that most amazing 19th century Englishman, James Brooke, the White Rajah, true life inspiration to Conrad's "Lord Jim".
Just note about this series. I don't believe I've even listed that I've read the first five. However, this is one fantastic collection of books. I highly recommend them
Hilarious. Some of the language is a bit dodgy but it still worth a read.
how does he do it? can't keep his pants on. still one of the best anti heroes ever! what a creep. I love him.
I think this is one of his best and funniest adventures yet, delivering all the exoticism, hair-raising action, and unvarnished cowardice one expects, with the surprise addition of his wife Elspeth as a key figure in, and commenter on, the drama.
Elspeth, constantly described by Flashman in his memoirs as a "beautiful idiot" and "gold-headed filly without a brain," corroborates this assessment with a series of hilariously vapid, but somehow endearing, diary entries.
(The acidic editorial comments of Elspeth's prudish, homely sister Grizel also never fail to get a laugh.)As always, Fraser's research is meticulous, and his writing far more accomplished than some in the literary canon would be comfortable admitting.
As usual, Fraser interweaves Flashman into real-world events and places from the time – in this case, cricket in London, James Brooke’s battles with pirates in Borneo, and the tyrannical reign of Queen Ranavalona in Madagascar, a deadly place for Europeans to visit.
To a large degree these are three separate adventures just about held together by Flashman’s global chaperoning and pursuit of his air-headed wife, Elspeth.
Fraser plays the bawdiness and humour to good effect to deliver a swashbuckling adventure with plenty of social and historical commentary.
Now I am reading the Flashman series in chronological order of Flashmans timeline, rather than the release date.
So Flashman's Lady is essentially book number three, comparing it to the previous two I am fairly let down honestly.
The issue I find here is that the true meat of the novel all takes place in Madagascar which takes up the last third of the book, if that.
If we take Flashman's adventures in Madagascar on their own, it is probably my favourite Flashman escapade to date!
When Flashman's beautiful and exceedingly stupid wife is kidnapped by a dashing Malay corsair, he finds himself unwillingly risking life and limb to get her back.
With the help of James Brooke, the White Raj of Sarawak, a complete madman with no sense of danger, Flashy finds himself cowering from pirates in the then-unexplored East Indies to toadying his way up the the Malagassy cultural circles under the brutal Queen Ranavalona I.
Meanwhile, Mrs. Flashman is none-the-wiser, thinking she's on a pleasure cruise around the Indian Ocean.
The addition of Elspeth's placid diary entries juxtaposed to Flashy's panicked narrative makes this one of the funniest of the Flashman novels I've read so far.
The Victorian coward and hero, gentleman and womanizer, honorable cheat Harry Flashman is back!He first cheats at cricket, and when his suspected match fixing is about to be exposed he flees to Singapore.
When his wife is kidnapped he is pressured into pursuit.
After fighting pirates alongside with James Brooke in Sarawak he ends up in captivity in Madagascar, under the cruel tyrant queen Ranavalona.
Despite his constant cowardice he manages to get involved in a plot, and flees when it is foiled.
Flashmans boisterous narrative is interspersed with his doting wife's credulous diary notes, accompanied by sarcastic notes by her sister.
Another ripping yarn, with a healthy dose of satire thrown in....Once again, much of the fun of a Flashman escapade is the depth of detail about the times that Flashman is roistering through. In this one we get early Victorian cricket, steamy colonial Singapore, pirate-ridden Borneo and the wild, bloodthirsty lands of Madagascar.And once again, Flash hits them for six and keeps the English end up (in so many ways) and manages to weasel his cowardly way towards his own legendary hero status.God save the Queen and tally ho!
My previous foray into Fraser's erudite and campy take on Victorian history was Flashman and the Mountain of Light, dealing with the first Sikh War (1845-46), which never seemed to attain a sustained comic bravura. Either I or Fraser were back in form for Flashman's Lady (1842-45), and the action spans several years and many locales, launching us from England and the intricacies of cricket, to Borneo and the suppression of pirates, then to Madagascar with its genocidal queen.
Not one of my favourite Flashmans, but still hilariously funny.
It has been many years since I read one of Fraser's "Flashman" series. They are still absolutely delicious. I must read all of them and then start on the MacAuslan series.
I skimmed this book for the information on Madagascar.
7/10.
Two thumbs upGreat fun, great character, great antihero. Another successful jaunt amongst remarkable events in the company of a coward. Two thumbs up.
16/20.
Flashman really is the perfect antihero, you spend a lot of time imagining how he might get his comeuppance. The book is wonderfully funny, vividly descriptive and with a plot that moves apace.
Great Series - not for the easily offended.
Cowardly Victorian cad Harry Flashman, up to no good, as usual, this time in Madagascar and Borneo.
I found the first two books of this series (chonologically-speaking) good fun, but wasn't nearly as taken with this one. Was relieved be be done with it.
Flash is lucky in meeting the White Raj. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_B...I'd like to read a book on him, since he seems like a such a quirky ultra-Victorian character.
The fights against the headhunters and pirates were some of my favorite parts--but the best is ahead when both Elspeth and Flashman wind up in the clutches of the Mad Queen of Madagascar, Ranavalona.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ranaval...A fascinating woman.
After a series of horrors and indignities, and having to serve as Ranavalona's male concubine, he finds out that Elspeth is being kept safe in the Prince's house.
