https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7214.Blue_Like_Jazz
Unfortunately, even as a blogger, he would only be so good - because despite moments of value and bits that come close to insight, his style is heavy-handed and obvious for too much of the book's 240 pages (I know, only 240 pages and it's taken me almost two-and-a-half months!).
I think his would probably sit in the Occasional Reads section of my blogroll, checked only so often for fodder for my own blog postings—and only out of some sense of duty because he linked to me first.One good-but-obvious point Miller makes throughout the book is that the human expression of Christianity in the contemporary American church is lacking at best, gravely flawed at worst, but most likely, somewhere in between.
Having grown up in a church that is heavy on doctrine and probably somewhat mistrustful of feelings, Miller's book reminded me of the command we see in Matthew 22:37: "Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind." Yes, Jesus does say to love him with "all your mind." Yes, I think it's great for people to read theological classics.
I think it's important for Christians to cultivate that sense of the awe and grandeur of God, and also to cultivate a deep and affectionate love for Christ.
Whorish teenage girls probably wouldn't do much to convince me I should be a Christian, but in the right frame of mind (where I excise parts of my brain and forget to be critical) his descriptions of loneliness, feeling like the whole world is an inauthentic rotting pile of shit, and feeling anchorless and rudderless in life I could conceivably fall for the message of this book.
This book was recommended to me by MyFleshSingsOut, who is a very religious goodreads friend.
I do not recommend this book for non Christians.The tone is very informal.
He's young too, like just-turned thirty or something.
And it shows, not only in his lack of probing depth, but in his annoying need to be cool all the time.
He constantly goes out of his way to show that he's not like other Christians, because, you see, he's been there and done that.
And if you forget how cool he is, don't worry, because he'll remind you time and again.
I liked this book.
I finished this book a few days ago, and I just can't stop thinking about it. It's not a perfect book by any means, but it was perfect for me at this moment in my life. I'm only bummed I waited so long to finally get around to reading it.
Truthfully this book is spiritually shallow and leaves me thinking, "yeah, but so what?" I have already wrestled with a lot of the issues raised by Donald Miller and found myself wanting him to say more.
Miller has found the Spirit, but is low on Truth.
His book does not challenge me because it is nothing more than the ramblings of an idealist.
The difference between C.S. Lewis and Miller is the challenge.
Lewis really does challenge me to think harder about my Christianity.
Miller makes me feel like we should all sit around and pontificate while smoking pipes.
Great book, I really like Miller as an author. I loved the scene at the Reed College baccanal where Miller and his Christian friends offered the reverse confessional, brilliant! Even for the non-religious, this book may restore a little faith in humanity.If you find that your faith is somewhat unconventional, this may be a good book for you.
His style of writing is easy to read and fun, with chapters of titles like "Faith: Penguin Sex."I feel as though a few of the quotes speak for themselves:"I think one of the problems Laura was having was that she wanted God to make sense.
He will make no more sense to me than I will make to an ant.""In fact, I would even say that when I started in faith I didn't want to believe; my intellect wanted to disbelieve, but my soul, that deeper instinct could no more stop believing in God...There are things you choose to believe, abd beliefs that choose you.
This is how God does things.""And so I have come to understand that strength, inner strength, comes from receving love as much as it comes from giving it.
When you get it, it changes you...God's love will never change us if we don't accept it.""I think the most important thing that happens within Christian spirituality is when a person falls in love with Jesus." and the quote that hit me personally the most.."I think the difference in my life came when I realized, after reading those Gospels, that Jesus didn't love me out of principle, He didn't just love me because it was the right thing to do.
"All great characters in stories are the ones who give their lives to something bigger than themselves."I really enjoyed this book a lot - Donald Miller has a really intriguing writing style and it is hard to put the book down because of it! I loved all of his stories and thoughts on Christianity - he explains everything in ways that are so easy to understand but still challenge your thoughts on the matter.Overall fantastic read that I would definitely recommend!
And your habit of kissing your pillow in the morning "as if it were a woman, a make-believe wife?" Didn't really need to know that.===I will never look at Emily Dickinson the same way again."I saw Emily Dickinson step out of a screen door and look at me with dark eyes, those endless dark eyes like the mouth of a cave, like pitch night set so lovely twice beneath her furrowed brow, her pale white skin gathering at the red of her lips, her long thin neck coming perfectly from her white dress flowing so gently and cleanly around her waist, down around her knees then slipping a tickle around her ankles---" and are you feeling as uncomfortable as I am yet?
For the Crusades.===My second-best Donald Miller impression: "Institutions suck.
Friend: Oh, you're reading "Blue Like Jazz?" Is it any good?Roommate: Hmm. Do you want the long version or the short version?
If you pick up Miller's book looking for writing that is chock-filled with passages of Scripture or full of deep and nuanced passages of doctrine and theology then you will be disappointed.
But if you approach the book as one man's journey to faith told in a friendly and humorous manner then you will enjoy Blue Like Jazz.
Admittedly I approached the book from my very Conservative Evangelical subculture with a little trepidation.
But Miller will take you on a journey worth the price of the book and asks some very needful and poignant questions about what baggage we saddle the Gospel with to it's detriment.
I hope this book does not become a classic because it will portray our time period in history as one where we thought we were smart, but we were dumb.Third, the author seems to be ashamed of the gospel.
If a non-Christian reads this book seeking an understanding of Christianity and Christ, the non-Christian is going to see Christians as a bunch of self-loving whiners who do not know who God is.
I was hopeful when I reached the last chapter that purports to be about Jesus because I thought maybe the author was building up to a presentation of the gospel.
The author tells a story about how Navy Seals go to rescue some prisoners of war.
He also makes the analogy that we are being held captive in a world run by Satan, and we have to trust in Jesus so we can be rescued by Him. That story and analogy really speaks volumes to me..
Another reason that that little story really struck me is that just the day before, I had an interesting conversation about how people can sometimes psychologically manipulate others by taking on similar positions or attitudes in order to get people to trust them and feel more open around them...
Despite his ability to say what Christians around the world have been thinking for the last 8 years--and to say it in an interesting way--I don't think his thoughts or writing compares to so many other philosophy-type books.I think what drives me crazy is that everyone in my "Christian" generation leans towards these trendy, faddish books that finally tell them how they feel about god, when there are so many other great theologians, philosophers, and thinkers that will challenge you.
But, as I kept reading, I enjoyed the book, the characters, and the stories more.
That helps me to validate my feelings somewhat.It is a good and quick read and it does a great job of showing that not all Christians are the right-wing nutjobs you see spouting hate on television.
He does a great job of pointing out that Christianity should be about love and that we as Christians need to examine ourselves before we can try to convert others.
He met people where they were, He loved them, He showed them a better way, and He asked them to follow Him to eternal life.
Really enjoyed this. Donald Miller is so relatable and his stories are so entertaining that I feel like we're close friends. Aaaaand that's the way I like reading books.
In other words, it was trying to tell thinking people how they can believe wholeheartedly and not abandon their intellect, too.
After that attempt I felt strangely burned on Christian apologist writing in general.I'm glad I didn't use that as an excuse not to crack open Blue Like Jazz.
Where Mere Christianity's audacious reach exceeded its only-human grasp, Blue Like Jazz tells human stories to human beings.
Blue Like Jazz has definitely provided an inflection point in my thinking about God, the effects of which I probably won't fully realize for a long time to come.
It is much less like a personal spirituality manual than it is a book of quirky essays by someone who happens to be deeply spiritual and learned, through the ups and downs of his life, how his faith was as much a part of his everyday life as breathing and sleeping.
I also love this book because it was written in Portland, and the house where the author lived turns out to be right across the street from my church.
(By the big gold Joan of Arc statue, if you're a Portlander.) And he dedicated the book to all the coffeeshops and bars in Portland where he wrote it, which I thought was really cool.
Emergent malaise. I think someone else described it this way, and it's pretty accurate: It's like reading a whiny teenager's diary—there are some good points, but he still needs to grow up.
A lot of current mainstream "Christian" authors seem to want to downplay our true sin nature...
I think Miller's overall problem is that he is trying too hard to be cool.
I have no idea how many times the word "cool" was used in this book because I stopped counting when it got above a reasonable number.
but that the gift of God is eternal life, through Him alone!Just listen to what Miller said: "For me the beginning of sharing my faith with people began by throwing out Christianity and embracing Christian spirituality, a nonpolitical mysterious system that can be experienced but not explained." What???
Sometimes he wonders about the whole Jesus thing, sighs Miller in chapter one, giving us hope that a Christian author is about to dig into an earnest inter-faith discussion.
To cover all the bases, he quotes "Sarte" [sic].Religious naivete and intellectual posturing aside, there's something even more deeply wrong about this book: what it says about its audience, mainstream American Christianity.
There's something amiss about the way Miller congratulates himself and his urban Christian community that (gasp) gives sandwiches to the homeless and (OMG) protests the Iraq war.

Miller's thoughts on Christian spirituality are so refreshing, they reminded me of why it feels good to feel more than OK about my faith -- and I'd been needing a nudge like that for a long while.
For a book that makes you think about thoughts (if that makes sense), this one does a pretty good job of it.
Give yourself a few chapters and I challenge you (believer or non-believer) to think differently.
The postmoderns that we call emergent, love to talk about their feelings and experiences and here is another exchange where he's talking about a friend who is thinking about God and Christ: "She wanted God to make sense.
But if You want to talk, I'm here now." As for the missional aspects of his existence it is strained through this paradigm: "For me, the beginning of sharing my faith with people began by throwing out Christianity and embracing Christian spirituality, a nonpolitical system that can be experienced but not explained.
Though he talks about truth, for Miller, and the emergent Christians he's aligned with, it is really about the experience.
It seems like this book (or blog?) is written in a very personal way; a man nearing his 40's, musing about his life and relationship with Christ.Evangelicals - Sorry, but if you want to spread faith with a message of sin and judgement, you might as well just stay in your pews and jump up and down.
A book like this speaks to those people because it's welcoming, loving, and friendly - the best aspects of Christianity.
They need to learn about the more terrifying aspects of God, of course - but that should come after meeting pastors and Christians like Miller and his friends.
So Christianity can't and shouldn't try to be cool.
Ugh. Religion is not a defunct concept and spirituality is not preferable to Christianity.
I understand that Miller is trying to appeal to the unchurched or those who have strayed from their faith, but he errs when he chooses the vague, unfocused spirituality over the focused, definable Christianity.And yet, I would reservedly recommend this flawed book because I believe it will be of great use to many who have strayed from their faith and are not comfortable with what they assume to to be the Conservative, unforgiving church.
I remember a specific time when I was laying there in bed thinking about the absurdity of my belief....I felt as if believing in God was no more rational than having an imaginary friend.
Christian faith requires a leap of imagination to believe that there is a love greater than we are capable of, greater than anyone else is capable of, greater than we have experienced in any human relationship.
Each chapter is essentially a theme (Faith, Redemption, Grace, gods, Belief, Confession, Church, Romance, Community, Money, Worship, Love, Jesus, etc) where the author tells a story about how he's looking for authenticity.
I was amazed to find, outside the church, genuine affection being shared, affection that seemed, well, authentic in comparison to the sort of love I had known within the church.....My Christian communities had always had little unwritten social ethics like don't cuss..." He expresses his feelings that the Christian culture breeds conditional love while at the same time it preaches unconditional love.
I have a hard time understanding why this book is so popular among Emergent Christian circles; I feel like it has so many issues.Donald Miller's writing style is fragmented and erratic.
At one point, he even states that he thinks it would be really cool to go to a Greek Orthodox church because who else goes to a Greek Orthodox church?!
Miller also takes every opportunity to talk about smoking pipes, going to coffee shops, Portland, hanging out with hippies in the woods, sitting on the roof, Reed College, protesting, Republicans suck, churches suck (except for his; the people at his church "look like rock stars" and they're all artists), how his friends (who are all actual Portlandia characters) are so cool and edgy and the last people you would expect to be Christians, except they are.
