https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25486998-p-s-i-like-you
Boy-related best friend drama?
It’s very clichéd, and normally I don’t mind it that much from Kasie West, since her humour usually manages to reduce my dislike of the clichéd parts, but this time it just didn’t work.Maybe my reaction to P.S. I Like You would have been different if Cade had been more loveable and it hadn’t taken me 3/4 of the story to finally consider him a sweetheart.
His bad boy act – from the point of view of Lily – annoyed me, as I hold no love for bullies and fakers.Also, it’s all about the romance.
✨ AVAILABLE NOW ✨  "If only there was a way to transport letters faster, through some sort of electronic device that codes messages and sends them through the air. But that’s just crazy talk."  Several times during my read I asked myself, "what would it take for P.S. I Like You to reach a 4.5/5 stars?" and in all honesty, I don't think it could, no matter how cute some parts were. Now, I'm all for rating a novel according to its genre, but where am I supposed to put Kasie West books? In YA conte
: I've read all of Kasie West's books and I've never come across a female lead like Lily, which is to say, the typical quirky girl with weird self-made clothes and notebooks.
Her family is weird, crazy, annoying, roll-eyes worthy, yet so lovable, with a special award for Bugs Rabbit XDAs for the love interest, given the fact that it's supposed to be a "surprise" (come on, I knew who it was on page 6 - more on that later), I won't say his name but he was pretty great, if completely forgettable.
Their hate even came between Lily’s best friend’s relationship with Cade a couple years ago and culminated with a hated nickname he happened to give her that just happened to stick through the years.Cade is the complete opposite from Lily if everything is to be believed… perfect family, perfect house, perfect friends… but sometimes it’s easy to put up a front and as Lily learns who she’s connecting with via words and shared secrets she quickly finds that maybe Cade isn’t really the self-assured guy he shows everyone.
BEST. KASIE. BOOK. YET. ALL THE YESSSSES. I have major book hangover now. I haven't had this bad of one in a long time. This book was SO. EFFING. GOOD.THE TENSION, GUYS. THE TENSION: I can't make it stop.Please don't let it stop.You have me under your spell.If you knew me as well.You would make it stop.I can't let it stop. Guys, I cheated. I told myself I was going to finish The Raven Boys first, but nope. I got an email alert that this precious coming out and I lasted, errr, a little over 24 ho
The tension is bloody divine so I forgive her."--- couldn't be my pen pal.He couldn't.--- was an insensitive, selfish, arrogant jerk.">> (Seriously guys, you wondering why this is my favorite Kasie book, you know how much I adore love-hate stories)"So you think I'm hot.""Doesn't every girl?"It surprised me when his cheeks turned a light shade of pink.
Kasie seriously upped her game with this book guys.
I expected this to be good, I mean, Kasie can't write a bad book, she just can't, but this was so much more.
My August OwlCrate Box!I fell right in love with this book.
Lily writes in her notebook at all times.
She writes lyrics for songs and other random things.
Visit our website for more details!Lily has a best friend named Isabel and they are great together.
Every day Lily writes possible song lyrics in her special notebook during chemistry.
One day she writes some lyrics to her favorite band on the desk.
She has an older sister who is in college but lives at home and shares a room with Lily.
I love how the relationship slowly becomes more between Lily and her secret penpal.
Because I'm nosey.It was cute.The gist is that there's this artsy girl who modifies thrift shop clothes, listens to indie rock bands, and doesn't realize that she's pretty.
She's unflinchingly loyal to her one friend in the world because her artsiness and non-mainstream clothes keep all the normies from liking her.Then you have the popular jock-boy who hides his secret pain with humor that is willfully misunderstood by the angsty indie girl and her guitar.True puppy love ensues.And maybe it sounds like I didn't like this cliche riddled story, but that's not true!
This seems to be most of my friends' least favourite Kasie West book, but it's totally my favourite. This storyline just worked for me.
I'm usually not huge on modern settings/the real world, but totally loved this.
The rest of the story is her trying to reconcile the guy she knows in the notes with the version she knows in real life.
Lily herself was hilariously awkward (but not in some cliche way), stubborn, and probably my favorite Kasie West MC so far.I don't want to say who the guy is (although it's not terribly hard to predict), so I'll just say the whole relationship built up perfectly.
I love a few of Kasie West's other books, but this one is definitely my favorite!
2.5* Honestly this book just did nothing for me. I didn't hate it, but I didn't love it. It just "was" I guess. It's hard to describe my feelings toward it because I really don't have any feelings for it. I just think this wasn't the Kasie West book for me. Oh well! I definitely want to try other books by her, especially her upcoming release.
*4.5 Stars*   "So you think I'm hot?" "Doesn't every girl?"It surprised me when his cheeks turned a light shade of pink. I wasn't sure why that embarrassed him in any way. I was positive he already knew it. He ran one hand through his hair. Then he said, almost too quiet for me to hear, "You're not every girl."   I find it just so strange that I had never read a Kasie West novel until late last summer. Seriously-It’s so hard to find YA contemporary authors that make such a large range of people
I’m sorry, I adore Kasie West, but that other novel is one of my favorites of all time and it had way more, I don’t know, heart.
And let me be clear-Had this whole story been like that last 40%, this would have been my absolute favorite Kasie West book (Probably).
I finished, was smiling so big it’s unreal, proclaimed my love of it to my friend, and said I had to give it a five…but then I slept on it and realized that it didn’t feel right to give it that rating, that it wasn’t a forever favorite, and it it had too many issues I couldn't get over.
The whole plot and premise are so fun and really intriguing from the start, it's the perfect mix of a lot of different elements.The things I didn't like were the pacing of the ending (everything seemed to move a little too fast) and I would've loved a *touch* more development for the side characters, though it's hard to do in a book this short.
It's not to say that they weren't well developed, but I think it could've been done a little more.Overall a SUPER fun contemporary that I really enjoyed and read in essentially one plane ride.
I like my books cheesy and cute and fluffy sometimes and this was just the perfect one. I am honestly so pleasantly surprised right now and I just need a moment to gather all my feels.  ALSO its official: I love Kasie West’s writings& I’m ready to read everything and anything by herThe plot obviously pulled me in first. The whole premise is so adorable. Kind of like You’ve Got Mail I guess (which makes me love it even more). SO Lily starts writing on her desk one day because she’s bored duri
Honestly I’m kind of a mess and from here so it’s just going to get messy and I’m just going to list all the stuff in this book I loved:a)	The “evil rabbit” named bugs rabbit which likes to pee on unsuspecting peopleb)	The adorable brothers of Lily who are so cute ohmy c)	Ashley (her sister) and Lily’s relationship #goalsd)	Lily’s entire family and how messy and real they aree)	How competitive Lily’s parents are because LOL samef)	The whole note exchanging thing is so pure g)	The fact that Lily and you-know-who bond through musich)	Lily& her best friend’s relationshipi)	The fact that you-know-who likes kids and is so good to Wyattj)	THAT ENDING 
3.5 stars I honestly didn’t think I’ll end up liking the novel because the first few chapters didn’t do much for me.
I wasn’t instantly captivated and I wasn’t that eager to keep reading during the first few chapters.
It’s Kasie West, instantly garnering the novel half a star.
But as much as I liked the novel, I honestly don’t think a Kasie West book deserves five stars because they’re consistently predictable, clichéd, fluffy, sometimes too fluffy but to me, they’re the perfect laid-back reads you can bring with you while are on a vacation which I was and I totally enjoyed it.
So cute!!! Can’t believe I binged this ahhh this was just what I needed ❤ Definitely going to check out more Kasie West books when I’m in need of some serious fluff 😌
So cute!!! Can’t believe I binged this ahhh this was just what I needed ❤️ Definitely going to check out more Kasie West books when I’m in need of some serious fluff 😌
I need this in my life because:a.) It's by Kasie-Goddess-of-Fluff-West, andb.) IT'S A PENPAL ROMANCE.
Of course it was perfect, it's Kasie.
I legit shoved a friend out of the way when I saw this gorgeous thing on the shelf at my local indie, so of course I was going to read it ASAP.Lily is a great MC.
Her family was fun {all of those contests and voting had me cackling} and her little brothers were adorable.I love love love the idea of secret pen pals and letters and this was just perfection.
Kasie threw in a couple of mild twists I wasn't expecting, but had me grinning like a loon the entire time.
The premise was unlike any book I've read before, and because of Kasie's style, I was hooked from the first page.The main character, Lily, is bored during chem class - like many students to come before her.
Unlike many other books, we didn't have to wait until the end of the book to find out; rather, Lily learnt who her pen pal was about half way through the book, though it took a while until both revealed themselves to each other.
Because of this wait, and Lily knowing who it was she was falling for, and still falling harder, it made the book so much better to read.Like you'll have guessed, the romance was so swoony!
This book is intended for readers ages 12 and up, grades 7 and up.My Experience: I started reading P.S. I Like You on 6/3/17 and finished it on 6/12/17.
She’s always jotting down words and phrases for potential songs in her notebook wherever she walks and especially in Chemistry class because who likes Chemistry anyway?
I love reading a cute love story and this book has it all!
You won’t be disappointed!Pro: old fashioned hand written letters, humor, fast paced, page turner, couldn’t put down, suspense, mystery secret admirer, banter, cute romance, friendship, family dynamic,Con: noneI rate it 5 stars!***Disclaimer: Many thanks to Scholastic for the opportunity to read and review.
how did kasie manage to make this so cute?
she has a gift, i swear.
I spotted the love interest like ten seconds into the book, and I was 100% sure I would never like him.....
but Kasie worked her magic.SO CUTE.
review to cooome :D----------------this book is unputdownable.
but this is me right now:so goodnight & shout out to anyone who tries to talk to me at work tomorrow cause it's not happening.
gonna be non-stop reading lmao love myself <3-- -- -- -- -- -- -- may or may not have screamed when I read that my arc request was approved!!!
4 stars!! I am bound and determined to read all of Kasie West's books. I have been on a YA kick lately and after reading a few of them, I realize how much I love her style. P.S. I Love You was a sweet YA romance and even though it was a bit predictable, I enjoyed it lots. Lily is a high school student, sister to 3 siblings and 2 fun-loving parents, and a song writer. Chemistry is her arch nemesis, along with Cade, her best friend's ex. One day during Chemistry she scribbles some song lyrics from
I am bound and determined to read all of Kasie West's books.
P.S. I Love You was a sweet YA romance and even though it was a bit predictable, I enjoyed it lots.
Lily is a high school student, sister to 3 siblings and 2 fun-loving parents, and a song writer.
One day during Chemistry she scribbles some song lyrics from one of her favorite indie bands on her desk.
When she's back in Chemistry, someone else has added to the lyrics.
Lily and this mystery student become pen pals and confidants.
I loved the characters and the ending.
I am so weird, no one likes me.
This bully dude, Cade, he's soo hot.
My family is crazy and that is my life's 'Problem'.
The next day, I find a letter under my desk in Chemistry by this anonymous dude.
Oh and did I mention how hot Cade is?
Lily thinks she's weird and Cade's hot.
Bored in Chemistry, she one day writes a lyric of her fav song on her desk.
Until one day she finds out who that person is and realizes this needs to stop.
This person that she hates in real life and loves on paper.
This was a super cute and adorable book. It was just what I was craving, a surgery sweet book. It wasn't amazing but if your looking for a cute contemporary that is addictive and that you can fly through, look no further! Now I must read all of West's books! I need more cutesy books in my life, STAT!
Super cute read! I found it to be a bit predictable (I guessed who her secret pen pal was right away), but that didn't ruin the fun of the story. It had me laughing quietly to myself and grinning all the way through.
But I friggin love the movie You've Got Mail and this book came my way at exactly the right time so I was happy to read a cute and predictable YA romance.
But as I said at the beginning this book came at the right time when I needed a sweet escape from reality.
Many times people can make quick judgements without considering all of the possibilities and it's important to give more consideration.I thought the passing back and forth of written notes was a cute idea; I am beyond glad this wasn't two people texting.
Overall this was a good story. Well done and sort of well written. The characters were interesting and the plot was fun. Unfortunately this was not as good as her other books.
Writing her own....If only she could find some alone time in that big family of hers to actually write her own songs.So when one day she writes some lyrics of her favorite band on her desk, she is suprised that the other day someone responded to her.And so begins our story.Now that I marathoned through all of Kasie West's contemporary books....
I have to say that this is my second favorite of hers.It has all the characteristics of her other books that are cliche and some people may find annoying (sometimes me too), but I still loved every second of it.Definitely recommend it you're in the mood for some cute contemporary romance.
blog***P.S. I Like You by Kasie WestPublisher: PointPublication Date: July 26, 2016Rating: 4 starsSource: Review copy sent by the publisherSummary (from Goodreads):What if the person you were falling for was a total mystery?While Lily is spacing out in Chemistry one day, she picks up her pencil and scribbles a line from one of her favorite songs on the desk.
Now that Lily knows the truth, can she untangle her feelings and gather the courage to listen to her heart?From beloved author Kasie West (The Distance Between Us) comes an utterly charming story about mixed messages, missed connections, and the magic of good old-fashioned secret admirer notes.What I Liked:***SPOILER FREE REVIEW***(As in, I am not going to say who the mystery pen pal writer is.
THIS WAS SO INCREDIBLY ADORABLE OH MY GOD! “You’re my favorite way to pass the time. But time stands still when you’re on my mind.” I needed this level of cuteness, I needed something fluffy and fast and this book turned out to be just that! As I stated in my pre-review, this is my first Kasie West book and it definitely did not disappoint! I can't wait to pick up her other books. The book plot is simple and cute: Lily, a high school student, pretty much hates chemistry and never really focuses
As I stated in my pre-review, this is my first Kasie West book and it definitely did not disappoint!
I predicted it early on because it was pretty obvious, but I still loved it regardless and loved how everything was revealed, because in my opinion, the point wasn't to be shocked by the identity of the pen pal, but to live through the cuteness.
The pen pal guy is beyond cute and adorable and I just love him.

This book gave me diabetes. Not really but this was SO FUCKING CUTE! And so quick to both get into and read. Don't mind me while I go and fetch me all of Kasie West books. Not really a review because I'm a lazy ass and there's not much to say other than what I already did.
