https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/778581.A_History_of_Religious_Ideas_1
Patronul pentru care lucram cândva depozitase mormane de cărți direct pe mochetă, cele mai multe tipărite in anii '70-80, într-o cameră aflată în construcție, neîncălzită și cu pereți neizolați prin care se infiltra umezeala.
Insă cel puțin primul volum din "Istoria credintelor și ideilor religioase" mi se pare fundamentat pe o cercetare foarte amănunțită, cu referințe temporale, cu argumente convingătoare, iar concluziile pe care le trage Eliade pe baza lor sunt logice.
Poate unele nu sunt incontestabile, dar ce poate fi incontestabil într-un domeniu atât de subiectiv ca istoria religiilor?Cartea mi-a fost extrem de utilă în documentarea pentru lucrarea de disertație și nu regret o clipă că am furat-o.
In volume I of “A History of Religious Ideas”, Mircea Eliade opens on page 5 with explanation of a ritual of “mystical solidarity” from the Stone Age, that I have not read anywhere else.
In this ritual hunter-gatherers see the blood of the prey as similar in every respect to their blood; and by killing the prey they identify themselves with their prey for two reasons.
Eliade's fabulous three-volume history of religions is essential reading for any serious scholar of comparative religions. His range of knowledge and research is enormous. This collection has been my frequent companion for lo these many years.
Eliade is THE seminal thinker of the 20th century on comparative religions. This is his master reference. Anyone serious about comparative religions should not be without this three volume work.
This is a three-volume set. Don't expect a wow out of this book. Just a bunch of information that you might have previously read in any other books. It is good for a reference for a student but nothing will sweep you off your feet and you won't come out of it say, "Wow, what a finding, wow, what a discovery". In fact, the opposite may be true: a big yawn!
Simply amazing.
What an amazing journey that was..
Mandatory reading!
I feel that for the most part, Eliade doesn’t overstate the evidence, often acknowledging a lack of consensus in the field, and offering alternate theories.As an aside, I lean more towards Chesterton’s approach towards prehistoric man as outlined in his book Everlasting Man. It isn’t as scholarly as Eliade’s approach persay, but I think it keeps things in perspective:Science is weak about these prehistoric things in a way that has hardly been noticed.
Despite his reductionism -such as "Adam was a hermaphrodite"-, Mircea Eliade can be very systematic and this is helpful when studying religious systems one is not familiar with, such as that of Hinduism or Zoroastrianism.
I've heard this kind of stuff helps agnostics to realize there is an inner logic to religion, but to stay just here, for me, is kind of stepping on a thresold and never entering.
It could be a good beginning so as long as it doesn't lead to a rationalization such as "there are similar myths and ideas everywhere, I just worship one god less than you" that are commonly heard in the mouths of New Atheists.
وأفضى تكوينه الفلسفي والتاريخي إلى دراسة الأساطير والأحلام والرؤى والتصوف.اشتهر الباحث الروماني الأصل ميرشيا إلياده بواحد من أهم الكتب التي درست تاريخ الأديان والمعتقدات الروحية والتي وضعت في القرن العشرين “تاريخ المعتقدات والأفكار الدينية”.أهم المواضيع التي تطرق لها في سلسلته : الدين المقارن والأساطير واكتشاف النماذج البدئية النفسية، والمقدس وعلاقته بالإنسان، هنا إذا قلنا مقدس لا بد على الفور أن نضيف بالتالي أسطورة، حتى وإن كنا نعرف أن اهتمام إلياده بالأساطير كان ضمن اهتمامه بتاريخ الأديان والمقدس، لا العكس.
فالديني بدائياً كان أم متمدناً، يفكر، كما يرى إلياده، بواسطة الرموز.
Taş devrinden Eleusis Mysterialarına kadarki döneme ilişkin birebir arkeolojik kazılardan edinen bil
The 3rd Volume of this series ends with section 318 which deals with Tibetan Religions.
The 4th volume which is originally Geschite der religiosen Ideen, III/2 (and that we have the Spanish translation) goes from Chapter XL to L and continues the 3 Vol. series with the section number of 319.
It seems the original work of Eliade was 440 sections of which the 3 volumes cover 318.
There is also the work that is an extension of this compendium which is titled From Primitives to Zen: A Thematic Sourcebook on the History of Religions.
These works revolutionize the way we see religion.
Si existe interés en alguna persona sobre elcomienzo de las religiones en la prehistoria, Mircea Eliade nos lleva de la mano, complementando la las teorías con los descubrimientos arqueológicos.La domesticación del fuego, el descubrimiento de la agricultura, la teología egipcia, religiones de los Hititas,Iisraelís, Cananeos,Indios, Griegos y persas en sus ideas más tempranas.
تاریخِ اندیشههای دینی: از عصرِ حجر تا آیینِ اسرارِ الئوسی / میرچا الیاده / تهران: نیلوفر، چاپِ اول 1394 دین -- تاریخ ادیان -- تاریخ [...]
تاریخِ اندیشه‌های دینی: از عصرِ حجر تا آیینِ اسرارِ الئوسی / میرچا الیاده / تهران: نیلوفر، چاپِ اول 1394 دین -- تاریخ ادیان -- تاریخ [...]
This is an unit of the spiritual history of the whole humanity...Actualy, it is a complex course of History of Religions...Compulsory!
One of The most important books I have ever read
Make sure you have a really good dictionary on hand, but other than that this book is a really wonderful resource.
Not an easy read obviously, dictionary and wikipedia are a must during reading. The book was really interesting when I managed to understand what was being said there.
A seminal book on how early religion emerged.
ترجمة سيئة جداً للأسف لكتاب مهم لمؤرخ مهم
لغة أكاديمية صعبة ومعقدة تهتم بأقل التفاصيل فتهمل المعنى الأساسى، و ترجمة مزرية تكاد لا تفهم أى شيء.قرأت 150 صفحة ثم توقفت لم أخرج منها إلى بالصداع والكثير من الملل وعليها خيبة الأمل.
A typical Eliadian book, in many parts of the book he indicates the similarity between the rituals of some cultures and shamanism.
Il est impossible de choisir les mots qui peuvent decrire la diversite, mais surtout l`unite des religions. Cette lecture est surprenante et reflechit le genie du Mircea Eliade!
Il est impossible de choisir les mots qui peuvent decrire la diversite, mais surtout l`unite des religions. Cette lecture est surprenante et reflechit le genie du Mircea Eliade!
(read: chapters 7-9, 13 and 14)
Reading this 3 volume work by Mircea Eliade has been an incredibly rewarding experience.
It takes not only time and patience, but some historical knowledge, as it assumes that the reader is already familiar with its whole background.
But the reader can easily look up those background-knowledge things by the time he gets on its correspondent chapter.
I had no knowledge on Ancient History when I read this, but I was able to go through the whole thing (not under the blanket, though).
