https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24494.The_Calvin_and_Hobbes_Lazy_Sunday_Book
Then when he returns to being a boy, he could be endearing and cute like a yellow marshmallow.Calvin and Hobbes was a syndicated daily comic strip that was written and illustrated by American cartoonist Bill Watterson (born 1958).
The names of the characters were taken from the Protestant reformer, John Calvin and the social philosopher, Thomas Hobbes.The comic strip ran from 1985 to 1995.
After his sabbatical year in 1991 he managed to gain an exception to these constraints for Calvin and Hobbes, allowing him to draw his Sunday strip the way he wanted.
This book is a treasure chest of the full colour old-school Sunday Comics. While it doesn't have the ongoing storylines of the black and white Calvin & Hobbes, which allow for strong characterisation and captivating narrative arcs, these Sunday comics are wonderful in their own unique way. The humour is sharp and the philosophising is done in effective short bites. What's more the illustrations display Bill Watterson's serious artistic talent. Marvellous work.
This loses its impact if you've read some of the other collections, as it duplicates many of those, but the strips themselves are still charming.
It's been years since I've picked up a Calvin and Hobbes book.
An example of seeing things differently through (older) adult eyes: Days go by and we hardly notice them.
There are humorous moments and touching moments and reflective moments and "oh my god...that is so true" moments.-The following dialogue is from a strip showing typical "old time" adult comic book characters, which is Susie and Calvin playing "house": "Darlinggg, I'm home!..And I brought a surprise!""Let's hope it's a divorce!"-These summer days go by so quickly.
Animals like you just the way you are.Calvin: They listen to your problems, they confort you when you’re sad, and all they ask in return is a little kindnessHobbes (with a handkershief and tear in his eyes) : ...And speaking of “a little kindness” I’d have a tuna fish sandwich any time soon that you happen to make one.Calvin: Of Course some animals get on your nerves once in a while._________Calvin: Did you watch any television yesterday?Hobbes: NoCalvin: Gosh, what was yesterday like?Calvin: I think life should be more like tv.Calvin: I think life’s problems ought to be solved in 30 minutes with simple homilies, don’t you?
first book that I have ever found!
Hats off to Bill Watterson for creating one of the best partnerships in the comic world, an undying friendship that does moisten your eyes once in a while, a relationship of love and sarcasm that makes you laugh so hard that your stomach hurts...
None of the comics of Calvin and Hobbes has ever disappointed, and this one too holds good to the standards set so high by Watterson.
There are moments of pure genius in these stories which makes me appreciate the kid inside Watterson whom he brings out so well through the imagination of Calvin.
"The Calvin and Hobbes Lazy Sunday Book" opens with Calvin's 10-page adventure as Spaceman Spiff, interplanetary explorer extraordinaire, with one mission in mind: to destroy all aliens, which in real life, are disguised as his mother and Susie.
For the rest of the colorful 100+ pages, he agitates his parents mercilessly, particularly his father; while with his mother, he adversely chokes down every disgusting meal she cooks, making some of the funniest faces while doing so.
He would have been much happier in the era when Sunday comics were permitted a full page to tell a refined story, where the art was rich with detail.Book Details: Title The Calvin and Hobbes Lazy Sunday Book Author Bill WattersonReviewed By Purplycookie
I miss Calvin and Hobbes. Stopped reading comics altogether when it stopped. Nothing compares...
This book is as the title suggests... lazy and beautiful, AND in full color!! Nice.
Comics for very smart people. If you haven't read these you should check them out.
Delightful. I stopped reading when I stopped laughing, then started again another day so that I could again be in the mood to be filled with laughter while reading it.
Opening with a beautifully painted image of our heroes, walking through a snowy field, highlights for me include monsters under the bed, the intricacies of two-man baseball, the joy of giving a tiger a scratch, losing against Hobbes at Monopoly, Calvin’s Dad reading “The Disembodied Hand” and what happens if you put your hand over your nose when you sneeze.
“The best presents don’t come in boxes,” says Hobbes, “I’ll treasure this one forever.” Bringing together laughter, touches of profundity and the odd lump to the throat, this is prime Calvin & Hobbes and, as such, is very highly recommended indeed.
When Calvin is thrown out of his house, to do all this work outside, leaving his Mom calm and let he
I'd never really picked up a Calvin and Hobbes book before, though I did love the strips I happened upon.
It is pretty awesome.Calvin's imagination is unique, and this book shows a lot of it.
It's got stories set in every season.
It's got incredible friendship moments and nice thoughts on life -- mostly by Hobbes --, some hot chocolate and snowballs.
And yes, some elements and moments are repeated in different strips, but I wouldn't consider it actually repetitive because this is a collection, not a linear story.
I LOVE this book. LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO OOOOOOOOOOOOO (two hours later)OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEthis book.
A great book for a lazy Sunday, indeed. The edition had a lot more spaceman Spiff comics than casual philosophy, so more laughter and lesser thoughts. I loved the little epilogue by Watterson.
Cute. Perfect for those nights where I just need a little light something before bed. :)
Only the color Sunday comics. So much fun. I started reading Calvin and Hobbes when I was about 10 or 11, and these take me way back!
I say 'primarily', because I think Watterson regarded the covers, end pages, introductions, etc as an entertaining challenge, and seems to've taken pleasure in creating new strips and tableaux for the collections.
Even if you have the newspaper strips in other books, it's worth adding this to your collection for the additional material.In an afterword, Watterson casts back to days when Sunday cartoons were large, often multipanel works of art, and lobbies for a return to those days.
But he could have made a better case for it by actually SHOWING several pages of (say) Little Nemo in Slumberland, his own work, and some of the less artistic latter-day cartoons, with illustrative critical notes.
Unlike all of the previously released collections of Calvin and Hobbes comic strips, this one is all color and all Sunday strips.
There are no storylines, as those are reserved for the daily comic strips.
Still, this is a wonderful collection of funnies that will tickle your funny bone.
No comic strip has ever come close to making more people laugh than Calvin and Hobbes, and I doubt one ever will.
So, if you are looking for a great book to relax with and get a few chuckles out of, pick up Bill Watterson's book, The Calvin and Hobbes Lazy Sunday Book.
All the time I pick up any Calvin and Hobbes collections I lose myself for an hour.
I still laugh as hard as I did the first time I read them.
I always related to Calvin, in the sense that he is a loner and he does not care.
I always was a type of loner in which I could never stay put with the same set of friends because getting to involved with people meant that you lost time with yourself.
Except I never had a stuffed tiger, but I did, at one point have many imaginary friends.
They always laughed at my jokes.
Calvin and Hobbes caught my attention as a small child, and even though I didn’t always get all of the more adult jokes, I still enjoyed them. After a few years of reading, I appreciated more and more and even now, as an adult, I enjoy the creativity and joy Calvin finds in every situation of life. After reading every book of Calvin and Hobbes, I would recommend them to anyone who wants to find the joys of a simple life and I look forward to sharing them with my own boys when they are a bit older.
Calvin and Hobbes caught my attention as a small child, and even though I didn’t always get all of the more adult jokes, I still enjoyed them. After a few years of reading, I appreciated more and more and even now, as an adult, I enjoy the creativity and joy Calvin finds in every situation of life. After reading every book of Calvin and Hobbes, I would recommend them to anyone who wants to find the joys of a simple life and I look forward to sharing them with my own boys when they are a bit older.
Yet another among the books published by Bill Watterson from the Calvin and Hobbes comic strip that I have enjoyed. My children have literally worn out these collections of C&H comics, and with good reason. C&H is a unique blend of homespun philosophy, side-splitting humor, and insight into the human (child and adult) condition. Watterson's insights into, and sly digs at, various social, familial, and other institutions of modern life are masterful.
The Offspring have recently shared the Calvin and Hobbes love. Is it genetic, or actually universal?
An easy read that makes you re-evaluate your perspective of life.
Great!
Dá pra entender mais sobre Bill Watterson lendo Calvin e Haroldo. E dá pra entender mais sobre Calvin e Haroldo sabendo algo sobre Bill Watterson.
Reread ❤️
