https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16130.Alexander_Hamilton
It had a lot less hip-hop than I was expecting, but I still really liked it.
"...the world was wide enough for Hamilton and me." -BurrThis book is utterly exhaustive in its scope.
This feels like a life done justice, although I am also curious about the biography that Eliza started and her son finished after she was gone.
I loved the framing with Eliza in the prologue and epilogue.
Loved piecing together where the book and musical met, loved the bits where they diverged.
Shout out to Scott Brick for bringing this book to life for my ears the way few could."I am so tired.
I want to see Hamilton." -Eliza
I think Chernow gets it right that "If Washington was the father of the country and Madison the father of the Constitution, then Alexander Hamilton was surely the father of the American government." He was a man who was infused with genius and energy, but also often tone-deaf to the political realities of his time.
I’ve been wracking my brains literally for months trying to figure out who I can compare Alexander Hamilton to on the modern politocelebrity scene (or “to whom I can compare” him, if you douchey grammar wonks prefer).There are two reasons that process has taken months: 1) I’m currently operating with the mental processing power of an old Radio Shack TRS-80 (on the plus side, I guess that means I can run awesome software like Mavis Beacon Teaches Typing!) and 2) Alexander Hamilton was one unique son of a Scottish laird.Put Kanye West, Noam Chomsky, Donald Trump, and Steve Martin into a blender and what do you get?Well, probably a pretty disgusting slurry of liquefied body parts.
commercial would someday lead to the creation of an incredibly popular musical that blends show tunes with hip-hop is only a little less likely than the life of Alexander Hamilton himself.(And if you’re interested in reading a great account of the impact the show has on people I highly recommend this article that sportswriter Joe Posnanski wrote about taking his daughter to see it.)The circumstances of Hamilton’s birth on a Caribbean island as the illegitimate son of a divorced woman and a fortune seeking Scotsman were the first strike against him, and things only got worse when his father abandoned him and his mother died.
(I know that's what people call the book Lin-Manuel Miranda wrote about the musical, but seriously, this thing could stop bullets.) I wouldn't have picked this book up if it weren't for the musical, and it wasn't exactly light reading, but I'm glad that I did.
Before I did, I was kinda sure that Hamilton was the guy who was shot by Aaron Burr, and pretty sure he'd never been president, and if I thought for a second I'd remember that he was on the $10 bill.
It did make me yearn for a book all about Eliza Hamilton, though.
-Hamilton's vision for the future of the United States: his national bank, national debt and repayments, enhancing the British model of government on American soil, a model for an industrial society that would establish the United States as a key world player, the preservation of the Constitution for as long as possible and prevention of secession by any section of the country.
It was deeply researched and had all the elements of a quality written history book that read like a story; I finished the last third in a day.
And oh yeah, he also wielded his pen in a terrible and mighty way that would have made Shakespeare quiver in his breeches, producing mountains of passionate and fiercely written letters and pamphlets and essays.I also have to believe Hamilton was truly a good man, because two very intelligent women, remarkable in their own rights (his wife Eliza and his sister-in-law Angelica Church), loved him beyond measure and sang his praises for a lifetime.
Write brilliantly like a maniac non-stop, leaving behind some of the most important historical tracts ever penned, and be survived by a loyal and dedicated wife who will outlive you by 50 years and spend most of that time fighting for your reputation and the preservation of your rightful place in history.
But...seriously,Hamilton's monument at Trinity Churchyard in New York City: The Patriot of incorruptible IntegrityThe Soldier of approved ValourThe Statesman of consummate Wisdom Whose Talents and Virtues will be admired… Long after this Marble shall have mouldered into Dust.Pulitzer Prize winning author Ron Chernow's sprawling, weighty biography was first published in 2004 and seems to be enjoying a much deserved popularity resurgence, basking in the limelight of Lin-Manuel Miranda's smashing, 11 Tony Award-winning broadway musical inspired by its subject.
For a talented visionary as Hamilton who helped lay the groundwork for a country in which freedom, justice, harmony and equality among its citizens are paved, the manner of his death seemed very shortsighted.
Also, I now know more about Alexander Hamilton than I ever thought I would.
There was a section in the middle that got into the establishment of the US banking system where I got a little lost, but overall the book stayed accessible.Another thing that helped keep things interesting was that the audio was read by Scott Brick.
Brick has to be my favorite audio narrator.The book covers a great deal of early US history - not just Hamilton.
Hardcore Hamilton fans and history fans - check this one out!
But I didn't know Alexander Hamilton before--not in the way I do now.
No lie, reading this book is a major undertaking.
I am a lover of history and biography and this is one of the most compelling true stories I've read in a long time.
This book demonstrates the power of seeing events from a new perspective.
(The more I read, the more I hated TJ, LOL.) It only proves the point that so much of what we think we know about American history is superficial.
What is so impressive to me is that this man rose through the power of his words (his top-notch brain).
Alexander Hamilton will make you feel bad about yourself.
When he was about 19 years old, he had not only graduated from Columbia University, he was also George Washington's aide-de-camp.
This kind of attitude wins you enemies, and when Hamilton's enemies - chief among them, Thomas Jefferson - came to power in 1800, he and his vast talents were frozen out of government.
He was a raging bull the last years of his brief life because his talents were in their prime, but he had no meaningful outlet for them.
While Hamilton is a brick of a book, it was an interesting, thorough look at the life of a Founding Father: his upbringing, his challenges - both personal and professional, his accomplishments, of course, his fatal duel with Aaron Burr, and his lasting impact on the foundation of today’s nation.
I have always enjoyed American History as a subject so this book piqued my curiosity when I first learned of Hamilton, the musical a few years ago (which I plan to see when it comes here next year).
Time to take a shot!"Acquaints himself with two beautiful New York women of Dutch origin.
And if there's a reason he seems to thrive when so few survive, then Goddamnit- I'm willing to wait for it."And, in the Battle of Yorktown, 1781, make a move:"HAMILTON: I imagine death so much it feels more like a memory.
, written by Lin-Manuel Miranda, from songs, in order of quotes, "Alexander Hamilton," "My Shot," "The Schuyler Sisters," "Helpless," "You'll Be Back," "Right Hand Man," "Wait for It," and "Yorktown (The World Turned Upside Down)."And, that's only half the story.Highly recommended for a historical biography.
The Author is able to truly show the brilliance and importance of Hamilton's contribution to our government.I have always had the mistaken perception that Hamilton was a hinderance to free Government and that it was Jefferson and Monroe that were the true authors.
So if you're reading solely from a place of love for the musical, you won't be disappointed.But as a work of history?
This is one of the most meticulously researched works of history I've read in a long time, and Chernow uses primary sources extensively.
Hamilton with a little more impulse control would have been a rather less interesting person, but he certainly would have lived longer, because his fateful encounters with Burr would have turned out differently.It made me happy that Chernow began and ended his book with Hamilton's wife, Eliza.
Hamilton's constitutional capabilities cannot be lost on the reader, as Chernow details the battle to create an effective set of rules by which America would run.
A constitutional Goliath, a moniker Chernow resurrects from historical documents, properly depicts Hamilton and his vast knowledge of this key aspect of early America's founding.Hamilton moved from being a Founding Father to an effective statesman in the first Cabinet under Washington, formulating essential laws and laying the groundwork for many plans taken for granted in the 21st century.
Hamilton's ability to rise above a bastard's upbringing and his unsure beginnings to one of the highest offices of the US is one of those "American dream" stories that our forefathers built the cliche upon.
Chernow handles the material, lived-out so many years ago, with a deft hand, keeping my interest even through the parts I would normally find boring, such as the country's financial structuring which Hamilton masterminded.
Although Hamilton's politics don't exactly jive with mine, I've still got to respect the way the man carried himself.
It covers his personality and personal relationships with Washington, John Adams, Jefferson, Madison, Monroe, other famed men and women of those times and of course also Aaron Burr, who brought about his death in the fatal duel of 1804.
The fatal duel between Burr and Hamilton has a melodramatic flourish that I could have done without.I think Scott Brick reads the book very well.
Dueling was certainly de rigueur in those times!It is worth reading the book not just to learn about Hamilton, but also to hear about the feuds and the divergent views that existed between the Federalists and the Republicans, between Washington and John Adams and Jefferson.
He was brilliant and after reading this book, it is obvious that our government and many of the ideas that made our country run are because of Hamilton.
I learned so much about our history and the way the country works and it even sets up the mess we are in with North vs South and so forth.
This is an important work of our country.If he had not come up with an executive branch that held everything together, our states would have fallen apart.
He really did create this country.
I want to see it.I'm not a history buff and I really enjoyed this and I learned so much from it.
The first point could basically be my entire review - Hamilton led an incredibly interesting life, and was a remarkably eloquent sass explosion a lot of the time.
As to the second point, I was a little bit heartbroken to learn that the whole of Satisfied is utter bollocks because Angelica Schuyler was already married way before she met A.Ham. Also married before A.
Also, Mulligan was like WAY older than the rest of that little band and owned the shop where he did all his spying on the British Forces and most definitely didn't go back to New York and his apprenticeship.
As I have grown older, -I must confess.- my opinion of Thomas Jefferson has changed radically.
And I must confess again that this most excellent biography of Alexander Hamilton has only served to harden my revised opinion of Jefferson and the political Jeffersonians.I approached this book knowing only the current mythological cant concerning Hamilton, and I came away amazed at both his accomplishments and ethical approach to public service.
And his greatest accomplishment was, perhaps, his avoidance of hypocrisy [unlike Jefferson].I will not go on at length on particulars, but read this book by all means.
All I want to say here is that I am incredibly grateful to Lin, for introducing me to the world of Alexander Hamilton.
And that I am incredibly grateful to Ron Chernow (the author of this biography) because the way he recounted Hamilton's story was so accessible and enthusiastic and passionate that I fell in love with the real story as well.And lastly I wanna thank and honor Alexander and Eliza, for all the work they've done and to reassure them that their true story is finally being told and heard by millions of people around the world.
Definitely not something I would have ever picked up, but after becoming obsessed with Hamilton, I was curious. It was a bit dry, but very well written. I did skim parts of it, basically just wanting details for the sections of Hamilton's life that are highlighted in the play. The last chapters dealing with the duel and the aftermath were heartbreaking.
Overall, Chernow tries to paint a nuanced picture of Hamilton, and one gets the sense that his obfuscations and unevenness are not deliberate, yet when he insists that Hamilton loathed the slave trade and only bought a *few* slaves for his brother- and sister-in-law, one wonders how truly critical he has been of all of Hamilton's other faults and inconsistencies.Hamilton seemed by all accounts brilliant, as capable a leader of men as Washington and even more of a polymath than Jefferson, whose sheen was dulled by this account, slanted against him as this work may have been (did you know that without the three-fifths compromise, unpopular as he was after the XYZ Affair, Adams would have beat Jefferson in the 1800 Presidential Election?).
The Maria Reynolds Affair, political infighting between Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, John Adams, James Monroe (along with many others), the infamous duel with Aaron Burr, his insecurity regarding this upbringing and constant need to prove himself, and the start of the political destruction of the Federalist Party are all laid bare for readers to see, and Chernow tackles each one with an appropriate amount of fairness and understanding.What is maybe the most significant attribute of this grand tome is the little-known details of Alexander Hamilton's conviction towards his greater ideals.
I knew very little about Alexander Hamilton when I visited Nevis a few years ago and saw signs to his birthplace.
Like most Americans schooled in history via textbooks, I knew Hamilton was killed by Aaron Burr in a duel and that he was a Federalist hated by John Adams and Thomas Jefferson.
Another Goodreads reviewer accurately commented that Hamilton's early death did not allow him the opportunity to influence how he would be viewed by posterity, unlike Adams and Jefferson.
Perhaps that is why we know so little, and Hamilton's contributions are often minimized in American History textbooks.
This by far the most stimulating, thought provoking, absolutely enriching, fascinating biography I have ever read (actually, listened to on Audio).
I highly recommend reading this book to everyone - what a vastly entertaining education.
I have a different a greater appreciation of George Washington as a leader, a much modified appreciation of Jefferson, and a recognition of how even the best of men can be vilified by other "great" men when they perceive the need.
Who knew he was so incredibly brilliant and, in the greater scheme of things, morally and ethically upright.
But Hamilton the musical wouldn't exist if it weren't for this book!Chernow does a great job of fleshing out Hamilton as a smart, scrappy, irritating human being (with an A++++ wife, also a human being) as opposed to just, you know, the $10 bill guy.Also he does a lot of careful work explaining code duello and why, at the time, it did not seem totally bonkers to just be duelin' all the time.
I'd definitely recommend this to any fans of Hamilton the musical* to just kind of flesh out the musical and make you further appreciate all the work LMM did.
It's an enjoyable, informative read and it's really only like, 700 pages because the last 100 is endnotes.*if you are not a fan of Hamilton the musical, literally what are you doing
2018 Reading Challenge: book that is also a play or musicalThis book was the most extensive I have read in awhile. It was superb! And it inspired me to listen to the Hamilton soundtrack. And now I can't stop. And now I'm a Hamiltonophile. All the Hamilton!!!
