https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9961796-lola-and-the-boy-next-door
What kind of parents wouldn't sit the kid down and try to figure out what's going on?I kept thinking that Lola was disturbed and needed some serious therapy and I knew from the very first scenes I wouldn't like her.
Nothing felt REAL!Perkins tried too much to differentiate her characters, just so her book would be nothing like the clichés of the YA lit world.
I personally like it better when the characters of the books I read are a bit older than me (I suppose it makes me expect great adventures for the years to come or something like that)..
Cricket for everything I've ever wanted in a real boy.
Because that's the beauty of Lola and the Boy Next Door.
As much as I loved Anna and the French Kiss (and I looooooooooooooooooooove Anna), Lola was better on nearly every level because it felt real.
A normal, awkward, amazingly sweet boy who I can't even find words to describe.
Lola and the Boy Next Door is everything first love should be--painful, awkward, desperate, tender and so, so sweet.
I realized why she is able to write such amazingly real and heartfelt love stories.
(hide spoiler)] I did like Lola as a character but I wish/ed that she would man up, stop leading Cricket on, and be a better friend to Lindsay.
I was happy to see characters I knew but I have probably read 100 books since Anna and I no longer remembered the details of their true love always and forever relationship so their constant togetherness was a bit off-putting to me.
I was annoyed with Lola quite a bit but I really LOVED most of this book.
They fell in love.His name is Cricket.He's an inventor.He hangs out his window, and keeps his voice real low.And when she's within ear, he beckons her near.But Cricket wouldn't go too far.Because Lola had some scars.And then the tension grew, and hearts were ripped in two.There was love and some rough nights.But just who caused the fight?At Lola's, Lola Nolan's Casa.The most angst since Etienne and Anna!At Lola's, Lola Nolan's Casa.Sequins and tassels and two gay dad rascals!At Lola's...
I'm definitely going to burn in hell..Oh, that awkward moment when everybody loves a book and you don't understand why... You know that feeling, right? Well, yeah, I'm pretty much living it.It's not that I DIDN'T LIKE the book, it's just that I didn't LIKE it.. Does it make any sense to you, because for me there is a whole damn big difference.Anyways, this is not Anna's book-sister, this is more like the evil stepsister.. It  actually managed to  raise my blood pressure, unfortunately not in a
LOLA:I didn't care about her, her wigs, her pink and glittering room, her past with the twins, and her memories from when she was 5 years old.I found her to be really immature, and she was complaining way too much.She kept denying her feelings for 3/4 of the book and when her best friend (Lindsey) said that it was obvious that she liked Cricket then *bang* the truth hit her."I open my window and a thousand bottled emotions explode inside of me at the full sight of him.I like Cricket.
Yay for warm fuzzies. Stephanie Perkins has a talent and that talent is for making me happy, allowing me to enjoy the entire reading experience, laugh at times and come away with no deep sense of revelation - just the knowledge that I will have to get my hands on whatever she writes next. Her writing may be light and mostly meaningless but it achieves one of the greatest things a book possibly can: fun.And that's just it... this book is silly, mindless fun. I'm not sure why some people who enjo
I'm not sure why some people who enjoyed Anna and the French Kiss didn't like this, for me it was a very similar sort of book in many ways, with the main difference being that I thought Lola was a much more well-rounded and interesting character than Anna.
I thought both were entertaining romance stories but Lola and the Boy Next Door just seemed to suit me better.There was only one thing that I didn't like about this book and it was mostly because I thought it unnecessary.
adorable and wonderful! didn't want to put it down =)
Books like Lola and the Boy Next Door rarely work for me.
Reading Lola and the Boy Next Door was an infinitely relaxing experience.
(I would have preferred this book without sex though.)My excuse for liking Stephanie Perkins debut novel Anna and the French Kiss was that I read it around Christmas and it hit just the right spot then.
I am running out of the excuses here, so I guess I should just accept the fact that while I have no love for chick-lit, Perkins has a talent to convert even this jaded hater into a fan.

One thing I have to appreciate about this story is its glaring reminder that is to  NEVER EVER ENTER A SERIOUS RELATIONSHIP WHEN YOU’RE UNSURE OF YOURSELF  and I know age isn’t always an indication of a person’s maturity but in this case and it’s most often, sixteen year olds are yet on their way to discovering who they are and like what I’ve already mentioned, when you’re 16, be 16. I don’t have to explain that further.^^Truthfully speaking, I didn’t like the significant first half of the story
and I know age isn’t always an indication of a person’s maturity but in this case and it’s most often, sixteen year olds are yet on their way to discovering who they are and like what I’ve already mentioned, when you’re 16, be 16.
I didn’t like Lola’s selfishness and indecisiveness and I hated that because of her uncertainties, she had to string along two perfectly great guys at the same time, thus creating the most terrible love triangle in the history of contemporary YA romance.
I first read this book in May of 2013, and fell in love with Lola and Cricket's story.
I love that she's a vegetarian like me (that's just something that I dont' read about a lot so it really stands out to me!)I love that she basically only works at a movie theater (with Anna and St. Clare!!) just so she can afford all of her clothes and supplies she needs for her costumes.
I can't stand Max, and honestly I'm not sure that anyone likes him while reading this book.
For fans of Anna and the French Kiss eagerly anticipating Lola and the Boy Next Door breathe with ease.
Lola and Cricket had me smiling like an absolute dork the entire time.
It's the type of book you want to continue for endless chapters.There were parts of the story that reminded me of Pretty in Pink with Lola's quirky style and hand-made costumes.
ADORE!!!Realizing this isn’t a coherent review but rather a gush-fest about my book crush, I’ll stop now and just tell you that Perkins fans and YA Contemporary readers are going to enjoy this little gem to the tenth degree.
Just like Lola and the Boy Next Door.Perkins goes for quirky characters in such a way that she’s imitating Dessen’s trademark cast selection and mixing it with Elkeles’ cheesy lines.
Yet, when Lindsey insists that Lola goes with Max because she doesn’t want to be a bad friend, Lola mentally attacks Lindsey’s KIND and FRIENDLY personality in saying “there’s no good way of dealing with her when she’s like this.” Um, she’s like this BECAUSE OF YOU and what you put her through, chicky.Lastly – this is a BIG one – Lola has THE GALL to LOOK AT CRICKET, as if to LOOK APOLOGETIC for leaving, when she should be begging at Lindsey’s feet instead!
Okay, so, Lola is supposedly 17 years old.
Basically her life is Halloween every day.Whothe helldoesthat?!I know Perkins wanted to make Lola seem different and unique, but come onnnn, this is way too extreme.
Lola acts and talks and thinks like a 12 year old and I just could not handle her thoughts and her narration.
Wow. Max is described as an awesome boyfriend, but of course, for Lola to end up with Cricket, he has to do something bad for us to hate him, right?
But the truth hurts sometimes.I think that's enough roasting for Lola.Now. The plot.
Español - EnglishLola viste extravagante y tiene una vida única: padres gays, madre alcohólica y sin hogar, mejor amiga que se cree Charlock Holmes, un novio rockero y un vecino que acaba de mudarse nuevamente a la casa de al lado con el cual tiene tema pendiente.
Es bastante predecible.--Lola dresses flamboyant and has a unique life: gay parents, alcoholic and homeless mother, best friend who believes she is Charlock Holmes, a rocker boyfriend and a neighbor who has just moved back to the house next door with which she has a pending issue.Appear Anna and St. Clair, who goes to the same university as the aforementioned neighbor.It looks complicated, but it is not.
cricket is the sweetest, but just wondering who the hell names their kid cricket?
D'AAWWWW, well isn't that just lovely.Initial reactions:1.
Serious business guys.
There are more things going on than just the boy next door.
Perkins is able to write her main characters with such a voice.
They are complete characters.
I love how Lola has interests, and there are issues surrounding her life other than boy problems.
And although she's her own character, you can't help but relate with her also.4.
Lola's development as a character grew the more confused and distraught she got.
Oh how I missed you guys.6.
It's really nice to read about the 'boy next door' character.
boy next door.
Stephanie Perkins writes characters and worlds that feel totally realistic and I really couldn't put this book down.
I loved the side characters like Lola's dads (and even Calliope's whole ice skating thing).
And it was so fun to see Anna and Etienne again!!
Part of me is like awwww that was so fluffy and cheesy I want to hug this wonderful book.
But the other part of me is like WTF WHYYYYY is this girl stringing a guy along for the ENTIRE BOOK.
I was laughing at so many parts at how totally accurate books like The Love Interest or Brooding YA Hero are.
Allahım en sonunda badboy olmayan bir erkek karakter. Şükürler olsun şükürler olsun ＼(^o^)／ Kitaba başlamadan önce bazı şüphelerim yok değildi. Sonuçta "Komşu Çocuk" ki biz bu zamana kadar ne komşu çocukları gördük. E haliyle en başta badboy-saf kız klişesi okuyacagimi düşündüm ama Cricket ve Lola beni benden aldı. Yaşasın düşüncelerini açık seçik dökmekten kaçınmayan, heyecanlaninca ellerini kollarını nereye koyacagini şaşıran hafif aksak erkeklerin kardeşliği (*︶*)
Allahım en sonunda badboy olmayan bir erkek karakter. Şükürler olsun şükürler olsun ＼(^o^)／ Kitaba başlamadan önce bazı şüphelerim yok değildi. Sonuçta "Komşu Çocuk" ki biz bu zamana kadar ne komşu çocukları gördük. E haliyle en başta badboy-saf kız klişesi okuyacagimi düşündüm ama Cricket ve Lola beni benden aldı. Yaşasın düşüncelerini açık seçik dökmekten kaçınmayan, heyecanlaninca ellerini kollarını nereye koyacagini şaşıran hafif aksak erkeklerin kardeşliği (*˘︶˘*)
I mean, I read “Anna and the French Kiss” five years ago and never even thought about continuing this series even though I loved the first book.
I almost loved it as much as I loved AATFK.Just like the first book in the series, this is a very quick and cute read.
That means that this book once again isn’t anything new and unique; but it’s another one of those books that just make you incredibly happy and will make you feel good about life which makes it perfect.
FOUR POINT FIVE STARSTwo years ago I remember reading the first book in this series and enjoying it.
While in high school I dated an older guy too (not quite as old as hers but to my parents too old for me).
Now, I know why my parents thought it was a bad idea to date an older guy.
Here's another reason why her parents knew this relationship wasn't a good idea: a 17 year old and 22 year old are at two very different maturity levels and stages in their lives.
Lola is this girl whose parents are two dads.
Well, it surpassed my expectations.How can I best define  Lola and the Boy Next Door?I literally couldn’t put the book down.
I was Edward Scissorhands but with Lola and the Boy Next Door books instead of hands.
People tend to think you’re weird if you smile like that all the time…I loved Lola; she’s unique, spunky, smart and fun.
Everything in this book is damn sweet, I feel like hugging it and feeding it pie and *snuggle snuggle snuggle snuggle*Mmmmmmmmmmmm *snuggle snuggle snuggle snuggle* with the guys…Oh, God, why did it end???
*hugs*I love everyone!!!!
I honestly can't bear to read one more page.
Especially not Lola and Cricket (out of all names she had to call him cricket) I know Lola is supposed to be different and awesome but wearing wigs every single day is just weird to me.
➨ I'm sure Max is going to be portrayed as an asshole real quick just to make everything easier ( feel free to let me know if this actually happened) ➨I'm starting to think that the only contemporary novels that I enjoy are the one in which something very tragic happens like Colleen Hoover's books.
➨Sorry Meriem.
--- My good friend Meriem is making me read this.
Let's see how it goes.
Oh. My. God. What a perfect little book! I wasn't expecting to love it so much. I enjoyed 'Anna and the French Kiss' but this one was on a whole other level. So good! I've been in the mood for fluffy contemporaries and this was perfect. I'll definitely read it again in the future when I need a smile.
The main thing I love about this is Stephanie Perkins is just a great writer.
I've heard things about Lola, and kinda had a preconceived notion of her, and my prediction that I wouldn't like her was correct.
I didn't like how a lot of this book was Lola refusing to break up with her boyfriend, and the entire love triangle (????) was really underwhelming because you know she's gonna end up with Cricket.
So nothing in this book surprised me, and it followed a really typical pace of a stephanie perkins (or, any YA) romance.
first read: September 21 - 22, 2015first reread: March 8 - 12 , 2016MARCH 2016: I loved it just as much the 2nd time around!!!------SEPTEMBER 2015: Totally loving these books! I think overall, I liked Anna's story better....but I definitely found more things that I could relate to in this book. “Just because something isn't practical doesn't mean it's not worth creating. Sometimes beauty and real-life magic are enough.” I really ended up liking Cricket, he is just...so awkward, and sweet and tal
first read: September 21 - 22, 2015first reread: March 8 - 12 , 2016MARCH 2016: I loved it just as much the 2nd time around!!!------SEPTEMBER 2015: Totally loving these books!
I think overall, I liked Anna's story better....but I definitely found more things that I could relate to in this book.
I really liked that Anna and St. Clair were in this one, and from reading the description of book three, I am really happy that not only are THOSE two in it, but so are Lola and her boyfriend.
"And I hold my head high toward my big entrance, hand in hand with the boy who gave me the moon and the stars."This is one of the sweetest books I've read.
Lola & The Boy Next Door is a story about finding yourself in yourself, moving on, forgiviness, love and self-acceptance.In the beggining I had a bit of a hard time.
Getting Lola is quite a trip even though I liked her and I can say I'm glad I read this book.
Oh, he's so sweet and I even liked that asshole (Max) as a character.
I read this book in under 24 hours just like I did with Anna. IT WAS SO AMAZING . I WILL REVIEW SOON. The worst part about this book is that I'm done reading it. Seriously.
Even Perkins' charming writing couldn't really save the book after tying it to so many heavy bricks and tossing it in the ocean to see if it would float.Cricket, the male romantic lead, is the boy next door from the title, but he wasn't involved in the story enough.
I think I could've liked Cricket's sister and Lola's best friend Lindsey if they'd been allowed to develop, but these aspects of the story are part of what was shrunk down by Anna's history and Isla's set up.
I love Stephanie Perkins writing style and can't wait to read even more of her books!One of my favourite parts about this series is the quirky but relatable traits/thought processes of the characters!
For example; this is an excerpt from Lola and The Boy Next Door that I found particularly funny: "I wonder if he's looking at my butt.
It didn't get 5 stars due to a certain plot line (view spoiler)[ How it was evident that Lola liked Cricket and that she knew she liked Cricket but continued to lie to Max. Especially when Max would straight up ask her, he wasn't clueless and then she'd lie.
