https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/218357.The_Space_Between_Us
This book ravaged my soul and kidnapped my heart.
This book will always have a place in my heart long after the last pages have been turned.UPDATE: Since writing and publishing this review, it has been brought to my attention that there will be a sequel, The Secrets Between Us. I feel like this was a serendipitous occurrence, having read the book over ten years after it was released..
If I had read the book when it was released, I would have had to wait 10+ years for the sequel..
My favorite quote from this book:"...How, despite our lifelong preoccupation with our bodies, we have never met face-to-face with our kidneys, how we wouldn't recognize our own liver in a row of livers, how we have never seen our own heart or brain.
We know more about the depths of the ocean, are more acquainted with the far corners of outer space than with our own organs and muscles and bones.
She is raising her granddaughter, Maya, by herself, her daughter and son-in-law having died of AIDS, her husband having left with their son, Amrit, many years back.
Through the eyes of these women we get a taste of how life is lived on either side of the class tracks in India today.
Bhima always seems to fall back on low class subservience even when she is in the right.
Maya has an abortion, with the help of Sera, who had already rewarded Bhima’s care of and loyalty to her and her children by paying for Maya’s education.
A book that makes a deep impression....
Sometimes I just had to stop reading.
So much sadness and misery, there's only so much I can take.Poverty, illness, death, abuse, rape, abortion, disrespect, distinctions of class, condescension, it's all in this book.
Impressive, but to be honest I'm glad I finished this.
Hard to read.
But: This book is really well written and is food for thought.
I would like to read more of this author, but need to take a break first...
A very sad story but in the end it does have a shimmer of hope....
The story is a shattering account of the soul crushing poverty of an Indian servant juxtaposed alongside her employer, an upper-middle-class Parsi housewife.
Bhima lives in a slum; but for over 20 years she has worked in the household of Sera Dubash.
Even though the two women formed a kind of bond over the years, Sera drinks tea in a chair at a table, but she expects Bhima to crouch on the floor to drink her own tea.
Thrity Umrigar wrote a touching afterword in my book.
She included personal reflections of her own middle-class childhood and their servant…treated in much the same way as Bhima was in this novel.
This is a beautifully written story telling the side by side yet intertwined stories of two women from different classes in Bombay , India .
It's sad , really heartbreaking at times as we come to know the stories of Sera , a wealthy woman, and her loyal servant , Bhimi , whose life in the slums is a stark contrast .In spite of the class difference and the deeply rooted societal space between them , these women are bonded somehow as they share their personal heartaches .
Yet , the space remains .Umigar's writing not only takes you into the hearts and souls of these women , she takes you to the place where they live .
Meh. This is the kind of novel I used to like - exploring gender and class issues in a foreign setting - but I found it unsatisfying.
*SPOILER ALERT* The one redeeming feature of the book to me was the fact that the two women characters in the book whose lives are profiled, do NOT find a way to bridge the class gap between them.
However, the flashbacks employed by the author were sophomoric and the very fact that this gap is not bridged is not explored nearly fully enough.
The novel gives a flavor of the class differences in Bombay, but not much more.
I could not put this book down from the moment I began to read.
The characters are beautifully drawn out, and the writing superb.
It's one of those books where the story just stays with you.
Life in Bombay with it's sharp lines between poverty and wealth.
The main character of this book has been a servant to a higher class and well educated family for so many years the ties become as strong as family.
Yet with their class discrepancies do they really know one another?
This book tackles so many deep questions while also being a simple story of daily life.
With nearly 30,000 reviews on Goodreads, my contribution will be a tiny drop in an ocean of years of thoughts, but as the novel is actively in current circulation I'm happy to add a few "bon mots" to the pile.
The relationship between servant and household mistress are examined here, an oddly out of sync friendship where the wealthy Sera is emotionally dependant on the servile Bhima, but holds all of the power.
The great disparity between castes will continue to perpetuate the tragic story of The Space Between Us, unless there is a major social change.
This is a gorgeous story about friendship, family relationships and the artificial barriers created between the classes in India.
From the first page, I was sucked into the life of Bhima, a hardworking servant to an upper middle class, Parsi housewife named Sera.
Moving from compassion to resentment and love to hate in a flash, the author effortlessly weaves together the painful family histories as well as the current day story of these two women.
How it’s possible that people who work extremely hard can barely feed themselves or keep a roof over their heads.
I really loved this book.
There are other more recent reviews...(wonderful reviews written on this site)The story takes place in Bombay (before the name change, Mumbai) --during a time when I visited myself.
One of the things that this book brought up for me --is the reminder that no matter how different two people might be (educated or not -wealthy or poor) --emotions of love and loss are universal.
I have a few wonderful woman friends who are very different than me --yet "The Space Between Us"...seems to be just the ingredient that has us turn to each other during the greatest times of need.
In Thrity Umrigar's transportive novel, we come to know Bombay, as well as its residents, in its ugliness, its evocative beauty, and its uniqueness; and find how rare and difficult it is for people to transverse different parts of it, geographically and culturally.Throughout The Space Between Us, there are details presumably unfamiliar to the reader not conversant with the colloquial language of Bombay; the rhyming, the slang; yet, it hardly matters, as the thrust and emotional meaning of each line are apparent, even if not immediately so, and Thrity's ability to communicate the emotional essence of thoughts and conversations rarely leaves doubt about what is happening.The book delves deeply into the sufferings of women, of any caste, at the hands of men.
I've read this novel as uncorrected proof, i.e. before publishing... and liked it... but the agency representing the rights for Serbia always asks too much money and that's the reason why I didn't buy the rights... For the same reason many good books will never be published in Serbia... :(
You can tell by her actions, movements, and words that she's lived a difficult life- just how tough we learn throughout the book.
Bhima works as a servant for Sera Dubash- a wealthy Indian woman, who also has lived a tough life bound with secret pain.
Bhima & Sera come together to survive the abusive familial relationships in their respective lives.
My heart broke for Bhima by the end and I was frustrated with the way the author left it-- Bhima made me realize hope can be found even in the direst situations.
I found this book for a challenge looking for an author from Southeast Asia, and I'm so glad I read this one.
This is a well-written but not-so-subtle exploration of how class, gender power, and generational differences isolate the two female protagonists in India.
Spoiler Alert:I would have given it more points, but I felt like the author trotted out every stereotypical horror that could befall her female characters.
Wife getting AIDS because her husband brought it home from a prostitute?
Wife being abandoned by her alcoholic husband?
Sexual coercion and abandonment of a virgin teen?
By the end of the novel I no longer felt that string of scenarios made a realistic story, but that they were being included to excessively manipulate my heartstrings.
So I stopped reading them till this one- I picked this one up because of all the great reviews plus earlier this year I read "Everybody's Son" by this author and loved it.In this earlier book (pub 2005), we are in Bombay pre 1995 (became Mumbai in 1995).
This book is about 2 women Sera and Bhima- master and servant- who develop an underlying friendship that will never be a true one because of the class separation.We learn about both of them- their lives, their loves, their families and their heartaches.
The author is a beautiful writer and I will definitely be reading the sequel!Highly recommended!
The Space Between Us is a novel about the relationship between two Indian women, the upper-middle class Serabai, and her lower class servant, Bhima.
The lives of these two likable women have parallel experiences that connect them, but there is always that "space between them" due to class differences.
The author also wove in descriptions of Bombay (Mumbai)--the slum where Bhima and her granddaughter resided, Sera's apartment, the markets, the beach, the traffic, the food.
Umrigar based the book upon her experiences growing up in Mumbai.
There was a real domestic servant named Bhima who worked for her family.
She served as a model for the hard-working, stoic character in the book.
Thrifty Umrigar, the author and a seasoned journalist, draws an exacting picture of the two Bombays that the middle class Sera, a Parsi and Bhima, a Hindu servant inhabit.
Sera values Bhima because she is a good maid, cook, nanny, nurse and confidant.
At the end, Sera's family which has eaten Bhima's food for over 20 years eats into Bhima.
She has cleaned Sera's family's dishes, floors, bathrooms, linen, furniture ,even Sera's abused body, yet they, in the end dirty Bhima's reputation and her daughter's.
Bhima is still illiterate and can not share her story.
Despite being there to witness each other's pain and suffering, Bhima and Serabai will never be close because they are from different classes.
What I knew for sure about all the characters in this book was that they were all out for themselves and they were all unhappy.
By the end of the book you are left feeling so hopeless about the state of humanity you just want it to end.I have read many books like this one but you got to know the characters, not just an account of their actions.

Why do all the books I read set in modern day India have to be both so incredibly sad and so incredibly well written?
Economic, education, and class/caste disparities perpetuate ---- as the title suggests and the story centers on, in "The Space Between Us."Two women, middle class and servant class by birth.
But there is also the space between the daughters of the two women and the opportunities they do and do not have.
I was particularly impressed with the authentic thought, words, and actions of the characters.
This often made the book almost too painful to read, but to Umriger's credit, she did not flinch.
The Space Between Us centers around some very hard hitting women's issues, controversial topics/themes, and caste systems within Indian/Parsi culture, Bombay, India."She is tired of it all - tired of this endless cycle of death and birth, tired of investing any hope in the next generation, tired and frightened of finding more human beings to love, knowing full well that every person she loves will someday wound her, hurt her, break her heart with their deceit, their treachery, their fallibility, their sheer humanity."Despite being exceptionally well written, this isn't a novel I care to reread.
Captivating journey through Bombay's society!The Space Between Us is a very fitting title to the story of two women in Bombay - Sera, a Parsi from the upper-class and her domestic helper Bhima, who lives in the slum only 15 minutes away.
Both women have radically different lives, yet there are overarching themes that bring them together - their love for their children, their hopes for a better future, facing the ugly reality of machismo in India everyday.The first half of the book really grabbed my attention.
But when its told in fiction, I like to see a redemptive resolution.Perhaps if we had some sorta epilogue letting us know the women are okay?
(Umrigar was so real with everything else- Why end it with a cheap metaphor??) Here's something about me and books- even if I don’t like the way a plot or ending goes, if it’s true to the characters I can at least respect it.
Not a bad writer- she made Bhima's pain filled world feel very real- but in the end disappointing.
In Sera’s home Bhima has witnessed the intimate details of the family’s life, and cared for Sera’s injuries; in return Sera has helped Bhima deal with the hospital when her husband was injured, and is paying for Bhima’s granddaughter, Maya, to attend college.
I am appalled at the treatment both these women endure: Sera because she cannot face the shame and humiliation of admitting to anyone that her husband beats her; Bhima because her lack of education and status make her such an easy target for anyone more powerful (and virtually everyone she encounters is more powerful than she).
hati-hati dengan lelaki yang penuh dengan pesona..#halahBhima, seorang pelayan yang mengabdi kepada 
Or perhaps it is that time doesn’t heal all wounds at all, perhaps that is the biggest lie of them all, and instead what happens is that each wound penetrates the body deeper and deeper until one day you find that the sheer geography of your bones – the angle of your head, the jutting of your hips, the sharpness of your shoulders, as well as the luster of your eyes, the texture of your skin, the openness of your smile – has collapsed under the weight of your griefs.
A heartbreaking story of a mistress and servant who become inextricably connected as they share disappointments, sadness and joy in each of their lives over the years, despite rigid and unforgiving class barriers.
However, it also shows that money and class make life just that little easier to bear and brings power that someone living in poverty, as Bhima and her granddaughter, can never achieve.In the end, the rich and powerful may stomp on the poor, or as Thrity Umigar said in the interview at the back of my edition, the novel shows,‘ how power twists and corrupts human relationships.’ Of course this money and power is focused in the men in the relationship but although it is their husbands who are responsible for the women’s troubles, this is by no means a male bashing novel with several sympathetic male characters.
Reminds me a bit of Behind the Beautiful Forevers: Life, Death, and Hope in a Mumbai Undercity and The Rent Collector with the description of life in Bombay's slums.
