https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18176747-the-hard-thing-about-hard-things
Ben Horowitz has good war stories, if you care about the narrow space of Venture Backed fast growth technology startups.
To the extent that Ben's stories will generalize, they only apply to fast growth venture backed tech startups that plan to IPO.
It does offer an incremental view if you are primarily interested in the narrow niche of venture backed startups, and serves as a 4 star or 5 star book of anecdotes that have potentially generalizable lessons, if read critically, while fully aware of the appropriate broader context.
Rand Fishkin of Moz put together a full day Foundry Group CEO Summit.
There was a moderator for each session – the first five minutes was each CEO putting up one “top of mind” issue in the topic, and the then balance of the session (75 minutes) was the entire group spending between 5 and 15 minutes on each topic.It was awesome.
I drove home with my mind buzzing and arrived around 8pm to see Amy laying on the coach reading a book.
It felt fitting to start reading it.At 10:30 I was finished with it.
The Hard Thing About Hard Things was the perfect way to cap off a day with the CEOs of the companies we invest in.Trust me on this one.
The truth is that they likely did what everyone else in that situation has to do - get scrappy and just figure it out - and don’t give up."Great CEOs face the pain.
If the employees fundamentally trust the CEO, then communication will be vastly more efficient than if they don’t."Ben had a lot of great advice on how to hire well, especially executives.
Internal candidates across often do better, which is a great thing to think about when building a team.
Ben talked about how "Some employees make products, some make sales; the CEO makes decisions." The strength of those decisions is built upon having data.
These are my people, this is what I aspire to be, how I aspire to live, and the journey I aspire to take.Some will say that the book is for funded startups - and I'm a 'hustler for life'.
It is just as scary fighting for your own personal livelihood as it is fighting for the jobs of 300 people.There is practical information: how to conduct a review, how to live your life how move forward.I can't say more strongly: if anything I've said has ever moved you over the years go out and buy this book.A couple things: I missed my spot on the standby list because I was so engrossed in this book.
I think his advice is really interesting, and it's clear that a lot of the lessons he's learned throughout the course of his career were earned with blood and sweat, but ultimately, I'm not sure I can get past how annoying I found the voice he was writing in.- He sets up the most epic humblebrag ever, first by talking about this Bill Campbell guy and how awesome he is, and what a great mentor Bill Campbell is to people like Jeff Bezos.
In this memoir/business advice book, he recounts choice moments from his extensive career and shares information he found important along the way.In a world filled with Rah-Rah You Can Do It!
A lot of his advice also applies to people who are running companies with hundreds if not thousands of employees.Despite not being in that world, however, I still found this book a useful read.
If you're bringing someone new onto the team, really think hard about what strengths are most important for the job and find someone who is world class at those things.
I mean, duh, but still a good framework for thinking about the meeting.* As a CEO, you don't have time to develop your direct reports.
I suspect this is really difficult for many CEOs to deal with at first.
But it makes sense -- at that level, you just have to be able to do the job with minimal-to-no developmental runway.Anyway, for my first management book, this one was fun and readable and very honest.
The first part is about the author's experiences building and running various tech companies and is fairly interesting.
It might be of interest if I were looking for a how-to book, but, even so, it seems to be based pretty heavily on the author's own experience, i.e., "I did this.
Ergo, this is the right thing to do." I suppose that is better than taking advice from a failure, but I would prefer more than one sample point.I read it based on a positive mention in The Economist.
I guess they are better at commentary than book recommendations.
I rarely read the same book twice, but I'm going to do just that with this book.
Because this book has the lessons I need in my business, right now.
This book has definitely made it into my "top 10 books all entrepreneurs must read" list.
I only give five stars to books I believe everyone should read.
This book isn't a must-read for everyone, but if you're an entrepreneur it has five stars for you.Update March, 2015.
I've read it three times.
Every time I read it I learn several new things that are directly applicable to my business, right now.
I can't take insights from someone who has so little insight about himself.
Cases in point: As a white boy, you do not have to call yourself the "Jackie Robinson of barbecue".
You can just say you are good at barbecuing.
Or say nothing, really because it's irrelevant.
That fact that your grandfather once WENT to a black neighborhood is not a story.
Seriously you should not tell people that, because IT'S NOT A STORY.
The fact that you bullied your wife into going on her first date with you, is kind of a story...
but it doesn't reflect well on you.
Superb and unique book for its target reader - the founding CEO of a software company.
A few useful nuggets for non-founding CEOs, executives of non-software firms, and non-CEO founders, but this is by no means a generalist book on entrepreneurship or "business".Largely collected from Horowitz' blog, so regular readers there will not find too much new.
It also suffers from blog collection syndrome, meaning the structure of discrete essays precludes much of a continuous line and results in some distracting repetition.
Still, downright excellent overall and I suspect massively helpful to any founding CEO of a software company.
It's a must read if you're into management + tech.The hard thing about hard things is that nobody and nothing really prepares you for them.
Horowitz is the most prominent VC firm in the valley.
This book depicts great stories about the struggle from Horowitz.
Initial few chapters are good and the reader gets more curious especially how his business was transformed from selling cloud solutions to pure software based.
How they pivot on initial phase.
However, after 2-3 chapters, I got lost since this book turned into management/leadership lessons.
That's the point I got lost.
I was hoping that Horowitz will talk more about personal journies, his investment journies and the struggle that the funded startups faced.Good learnings though.
I had to skip few pages just after glancing those.
AKA: bullshit-free insights on management and leadership.
I started reading it in the middle of my biggest struggle as a founder and CEO of Neoteric (#32 on Deloitte Technology Fast 50 CE).
It was recommended by my co-founder, Mateusz Paprocki.Ben shares tough stories here.
It's only 1 month since I started implementing the changes and I already see a huge improvement of both business and personal life.I wish I had read this book 2 years earlier.
I recommend it to anyone who has entered fast growth.
I hit the glass roof before adopting - you don't have to and this book can help you prepare.
Some interesting insights, but nothing life-changing. I often felt like he was trying too hard to draw generalizations based on his experience at one particular company (Loudcloud/Opsware). And it's bizarre that he introduces each chapter with rap lyrics, often without any obvious connection to the chapter's topic.
great lessons about running startups, hiring people, managing people, being ceo in good and bad times. I liked the direct style of the writing with almost zero self advertisements.
No bullshit book about firing people you love and a surviving guide for the worst possible scenario in a company.
This very personal book is a detailed manual on how to be the CEO of a technology company with 300 employees. It is unashamedly based on the author’s experiences and it’s “straight from the heart,” as they say.I once owned and ran a tech startup that never got to more than 35, so I’m poorly qualified to comment on the quality of most of the advice. • I never had to demote a loyal friend. I tried to give my loyal friend Tassos fewer shares than my co-founder Marko, but he did not accept and I bac
•	In the total absence of silver bullets I had no choice other than to fire “lead bullets” (though mine were probably more like plastic bullets) •	book2eat.com (my company) never hired a big-company executive and had unbelievable luck with the small-company executive, Martin, we got on board •	The 360 review I instituted was a disaster, as all employees thought Orange (our investor) had requested it.
Damiano worked at Blockbuster illegally after falsifying his age (and went on to manage the Clapham Grand, probably before he got to vote for the first time).
If you're looking at starting a business, this is a good reality check of things you're likely to face. Highly recommended.
Два важных уточнения: 1) именно "прикладного", а не теоретического; 2) по сути это такая "настольная книга CEO", включающая в себя рекомендации и по оперативному, и по стратегическому управлению.
Мне кажется, что для России более актуальны руководства про небольшие и малобюджетные стартапы "от 100 долларов" (в стиле Криса Гильбо ;)).
Я понимаю, что вопрос это спорный, но по моему мнению, в России пока ещё не сформировалась определенная стартап-культура; что у нас даже небольших успешных IT-стартапов лишь десяток-полтора наберётся :( Книга "Легко не будет" посвящена "большим" стартапам.
Понятно, что тут немного разная подача материала: "Легко не будет" писал менеджер, "Яндекс.Книгу" писал журналист; менеджер хотел поделиться секретами мастерства с менеджерами, журналист просто рассказывал историю компании.
Briefly, this is the best business book that I've read in 2014 so far.
Thinkg seriously to read it again.باختصار ...
أن "بين" يشارك في إدارة حاضنة أعمال تعنى بالإستثمار مع شباب الأعمال وتساعدهم بشكل كبير على إدارة مشاريعهم، ويختم كتابه بقوله:" لا اريد أن أعمل حساب اي شخص، أو افكر فيما سيقوله الآخرين وهو ما اقوم به الآن كحاضن أعمال، وذلك عكس وظيفة الرئيس التنفيذي التي كنت عليها من قبل".كتاب ضروري جداً لكل رجل أعمال، أو صاحب منصب قيادي، أنصح به بشدة.
This is the best business book I've ever read.
Just like building a company, its gritty.
I've been through those sleepless nights, lived through months of those pit in the gut, sick, 'I think I might vomit' feelings.
I've never before read a business book like this one.
It's not like the typical "build your business...
7 steps to..." books that help you build your company when it's still yet a dream, or in the very beginning stage of its life.
This book is about those hard things.
This book is about those hard things.
Мені подобається, як ця книжка починається. Відразу ріже по живому:- не складно придумати ГУЧНУ ціль, складно звільняти людей, якщо її не досяг- … складно, якщо люди починають вимагати неможливого- … складно заставити людей комунікувати у щойно стовреній компанії- і ще багато отаких "складно".Це книжка, розділи якої я інколи перечитую як підручник.Резюме: нема формули для складних речей. І для вирішення всіх поблем теж формули нема. Кожна ситуація інша, і її потрібно вирішувати найкращим для неї чином. Висновок: 5. Горовіц шикарну книжку написав. Цікаво, що вони разом з Марком напишуть через кілька років про a16z.
Horowitz has assembled a great collection of hard fought knowledge for future founding CEOs. I took away a lot from this book, despite neither being a CEO nor planning to be one.
The advice on hiring and firing is clear, succinct and valuable.
I also got a lot of great insights on what to look for in product managers.
While not entirely discouraging to would be entrepreneurs, Horowitz's vividly retold experiences make it clear that running a startup consists a lot more of stomach churning decisions and shit sandwiches than unicorns and ponies.
Ben's personal stories along with key lessons and advice on how to handle those difficult decisions was amazing.I'm not sure it would be of value to anyone who's not a founder CEO.
However I think it's a must read for all founder CEOs who are in the process of building a big company, or trying to.
Sometimes while in the grind you hold hope that someday everything will just get easier.
I know that's not the case but it's easy to hold onto.
Ben's advice at the end is a deep truth we, founder CEOs must buy into: "embrace the struggle".
This is all well and good, but, as Ben Horowitz correctly points out, is more about the "What" than the "How".
The hard part of building an A+ team is not realizing that you need to find people who have complementary strengths and can work together, but is rather that sometimes the right person doesn't look the part, works for a friend, or is not as smart as the unreliable genius.
The Hard Thing About Hard Thing give pragmatic, to-the-point advice for CEOs and managers- the things you wish someone had told you.
Mega konkretna i inspirująca. Najlepsza książka jaką znam o tym co oznacza być CEO w szybko rosnącej firmie technologicznej - z czym to się je, jak podejmować decyzje, jakie warto stosować narzędzia, jak rozwiązywać największe problemy. Polecam zwłaszcza tym, którzy wyszli z etapu kilkuosobowego startupu i potrzebują wskazówek jak się dalej rozwijać, jaka powinna być rola CEO i kluczowych osób w organizacji. Będę do niej wracał <3
This book is 5☆ in the knowledge that we could get.the writing style would be less because the author talked and praised himself too much. however I think it's fair because it's about his personal experiences and how he got over the hard things.1 observation is that at the beginning of the book, there are lots of highlights but it drops near the end. Probably readers feel less engaged gradually with the book.Will need to summarize the lesson-learnt and apply.Overall it's still a 5☆. Thanks Ben!
Читається на одному подиху, а читати треба кілька разів. Книга наповнена порадами, які вимагають трохи рефлексії, бо люди роблять бізнес успішним.Пісні з епіграфів додав до свого списку улюблених пісень :)
