https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102218.Love_in_a_Dry_Season
However, I've come to realize that, more often than not, a novel being described as "Faulknerian" is really just shorthand for the following: Southern; quirky, dark characters with unhealthy libertine appetites; and a tragic ending--and these are all things with which I'm okay.
Foote's novel has a somewhat stock plot in Southern literature: Yankee comes to the South, tries to make inroads to the gentility and old money, and is destroyed in the process.
However, it's the dysfunctional and well drawn characters that make the novel such an enjoyable read.
Both women are disconnected from the "Old Miss" of Southern myth and lack a defined role in society.
A sleepy southern town as the setting gives us some mighty fine southern gothic.Imagine yourself standing on a hilltop, watching what you know will be an historic, incredible train wreck.
You watch the collision, the bodies and debris flying in all directions, the twisted metal coming to rest in the dust and destruction.
And although you regret the injuries and death and ruined lives, you just have to say to yourself: "As train wrecks go, that was a beautiful example of a classic one."That's what I felt as I turned the last page of this novel.
When slick Harley Drew ( a Northerner) comes to town seeking fortune, he finds easy prey in Amanda Barcroft the gullible old maid daughter who stands to inherit her father's estate and also the young , beautiful, but fiercely restless Amy Carruthers, wife of recently blinded Jeff who has retained his father's wealth.
Getting past one woman's father and the other's jealous husband will prove far more difficult than expected and unfortunately for Drew they're the ones who hold the keys to the family fortunes.
I never would have guessed that Civil War historian Shelby Foote could be the author of a complex psychological drama but Love in a Dry Season cries out to be dissected reading groups who like to delve into the dark inner workings of the human psyche.
It doesn't take Fellini to figure that out but that is just one of taste of the many subtle and not-so-subtle erotic innuendos and insinuations.I was totally engaged for most of the story and was going to give it five stars but I feel that Foote took pity on his characters toward the end(view spoiler)[ and let them off easy (hide spoiler)].
For me, Shelby Foote has always been that intrepid Civil War historian that wrote the book on the Southern perspective and contributed so much of importance to the Ken Burn’s mini-series.
He leads us a dance that is hard to watch, but from which we cannot force ourselves to look away.The end of this novel was not a bad ending.
Who knows.I’m pleased that I was brought to this novel by On The Southern Literary Trail book group.
It was time well spent and I would not hesitate to read other novels by this great historian, who obviously knows that history is really just the story of people.
Twenty years before this was written, William Faulkner wrote a short story about a naïve spinster-to-be, her overbearing father, an inappropriate suitor who woos her weekly, an old Victorian house, a sick room in the house, and a woman who refuses to acknowledge the death of a loved one.
It felt like Foote grabbed the guts of that story, added the lecherous married couple, and had the inappropriate suitor be the tie that binds them.Maybe somebody who is better read and more literary than me (it ain't hard to be, peeps!) can tell me if that general story line is just an old style plot or formula, similar to how romance novels have a woman with a husband they feel that is not trustworthy and a potential lover to entice her.
I first became acquainted with Shelby Foote while watching Ken Burns' brilliant series on The Civil War. I was struck by his innate story-telling voice and felt I could have sat at his feet and listened to him all day.I discovered, in addition to penning a collection on The Civil War, he'd delved into fiction as well.
I wondered if that "voice" carried over to the written page.I needn't have worried.His is not prose that will suck you in and carry you along for the ride ...
I happily did so these last days and look forward to reading more.
Southern author Shelby Foote sure knew how to build characters.
You may not like the characters in Love in a Dry Season, but you certainly won't forget them anytime soon.Harley Drew, Amanda Barcroft and Amy Carruthers are all part of a love triangle with Harley Drew at its' center.
Amanda is a wealthy, virgin, wallflower and is a perfect target for an opportunist and narcissist like Harley Drew.
Well, until Harley meets the wealthier Amy Carruthers who has affairs with men for sport and a blind cousin for a husband.
My first Shelby Foote book, but not going to be my last.
Southern gothic in which a young man shows remarkable patience, and keeps his options open, in trying to marry his way into money. A little bit "Washington Square" and a little bit "The Postman Always Rings Twice". None of the characters was particularly likable. The book was well written and I was entertained by it, but I was glad that it was not longer. There was a little too much description and not enough action for me. The narrator of the audio book was excellent.
Strange and bizarre characters, each with their own peccadillos stand at three sides of a love triangle.
Oh wait, are there at times 4 sides.
Or at one time five sides?Yes, it's baking and it's gnarly.
And it's in Faulkner country and also, IMHO, attempts Faulkner like language.
Style wise anyway.
Holding lengthy, complicated by four verbal phrases at minimum sentences, at that.
before the ever present foul language of that genre?
Regardless, it nails these characters.
Amy is the present day nasty girl man user.
But their depths of avarice are nearly 5 star in plot, locale, form.
4.5 star and Shelby Foote could write.
Umm... This wasn't a bad book but I was considerably underwhelmed.
It s been said that in reality there are only six distinct plots in fiction. If so, then Shelby Foote takes one of them the classic love triangle and makes it his own.[return][return]As in other novels set in contemporary times, the story takes place in the fictional town of Bristol, Mississippi, in the equally fictional Jordan County. Amanda Barcroft, virgin daughter of the supposedly fabulously wealthy Major Barcroft, has spent her life caring for her father and sister. A catch , but the price
If so, then Shelby Foote takes one of them the classic love triangle and makes it his own.[return][return]As in other novels set in contemporary times, the story takes place in the fictional town of Bristol, Mississippi, in the equally fictional Jordan County.
Seeing his chance at living the kind of high life he has always dreamed for himself, he courts Amanda, but falls in love with Amy.[return][return]The heart of the story, but as in all of Foote s novels that take place in Mississippi, nothing is ever at it seems, and nothing ever works out as expected.
I can't believe I waited so long to read Shelby Foote and I am after the next one already . I want to bask in more . I will write a better review later . Need to post this books ihave read as I have been participating in great conversations!
I loved this book with its strange group of characters. The heat and humidity of the south made it that much more intoxicating. One of my favorite southern novels!
Oh, this was lovely. Southern drama, infidelity, revenge and family strife, what more do you need in a book? The plot is fairly straightforward -- a stranger arrives in the Mississippi Delta (not the delta of the Mississippi River), from the North, obviously, because where else would upheaval come from? and tangles in turn with a sheltered old maid and a wealthy, restless young married.Grade: ARecommended: Must-read for those captivated by Southern Gothic. It's also a bit on the mild side of the genre, it's not the way out grotesque of Flannery O'Connor, nor heavily convoluted like Faulkner.
Shelby Foote's tale of upper class Southerners behaving badly is redolent with that peculiarly disturbing characteristic called "Southernness..."See the full review at www.newsoutherngentleman.wordpress.com - link available at my Goodreads page. Thanks for stopping by!
Definitely engrossing, in the way that eccentric, wealthy, and largely unlikeable characters tend to be. The narration is suitably caustic, though a real affection for the Deep South is readily apparent.
Southern Gothic! He has such a placid, genteel (and slyly humorous) way of presenting essentially horrifying human behavior. The Southern mind is a fascinating thing. I have yet to figure out why this place is so different than the rest of the country.
I got to know about Shelby Foote through the Ken Burns "Civil War" series.
His commentary and witty insights led me to his epic book series on the Civil War. I read all three volumes.
I then discovered he had written a novel which led be to this book, actually I listened to it on audio.The story covers interaction and a historical view on the lives of a number of people and a family in particular in the south from around the turn of the 20th century up to and into World War II.

As one might expect, Shelby Foote's novel contributes to the body of Southern literature, and does so in a first rate fashion.
The prose is like music, with melody, harmonies, rhythms, and counterpoints.
Each character starts out as a kind of archetype, but is more fully developed over the course of the narrative.
Some of the plot points might seem like clichés in lesser hands, but Foote avoids clichés in the prose, and manages an ending that is anything but clichéd.
Foote uses skillfully the language of the battlefield for less significant matters.
Less significant, that is, to all but the participants.
Beautifully written but terribly depressing novel about very unlikeable characters in the South during and after Reconstruction.
Still, there is enough of Foote's fine writing to recommend "Love" even with its comparatively dialed-down passions.In "Love in a Dry Season," set in the 1920s to the 1940s, Northerner Harley Drew, visiting Mississippi on business, then sees a personal business opportunity (money through faux romance) and decides to stay.
But the fact that Drew, a man to whom women are attracted, would wait a decade to marry for money a woman he doesn't really care about, is a stretch.
Club Read: On the Southern Literary Trail Comments: It does indeed seem to me Foote's novel fuses elements of the Southern Gothic, the Barcroft story, with certain material, i.e. the Carruthers' characterizations, you'd expect to find in something like Fitzgerald's 'Stories of the Jazz Age', if not 'The Great Gatsby'.
Feeding the Gothic narrative, Foote portrays the Barcroft family as largely the malformed creation of a stern patriarch undone by the successive deaths of his wife, young son and eldest daughter.
LeAnne, I'm pleased you cited the Major's staging of the Civil War battle with his disinterested son -- it was an especially telling detail going to the old man's state of mind.
Foote gave an interview in the Paris Review back in 1999; I highly recommend it if you're a fan of his work.
I don't do enough contemporary reading, but I'd imagine that not as many books go into depth the way Foote did with his characters in this story.
I'm sure that's done because of the product of the times we live, but I find it refreshing to read a story like this.
Would recommend to all Shelby Foote fans and to anyone who has an interest in a character study.
First chapter didn't grab me, then it started to unfold. When I finished, I was struck by the characters' relationship to time. The daughters trapped to wait their lives out with their stern father, the suitor waiting for the day when a father would pass, the father waiting to die to prove to his daughter he was right. Even in their love affairs, they were not living in the moment, but for that far off day when they would have arrived.
A story told as only a Southerner could tell it. I am from the Mississippi Delta, and I delighted in his details--like whining balls. The dialogue has all the majesty and melodrama of the Delta. As for a review of the prose, I agree with Faulkner's assessment of Foote: he'd be a good a writer if he'd just stop trying to be Faulkner. Yet, Foote does manage moments of brilliance when he, too, reveals the old verities, and in moments, he does approach the truth of Faulkner.
Great storytelling by Shelby Foote. Many writers have in their novels explored the similar theme of money,sex, greed and misery, but not everyone could tell the story with such style and sense of humor. Most of the characters in the book are pretty unlikeable, but I find myself admiring them nonetheless for their incredible determination, ruthlessness, selfishness and most of all their resilience.
Lots of fun. I put this one on the border of fun popular fiction and literature. This is more plot-driven than High Lit, but with great characterizations and subtle motivations. Occasionally the author throws in a reference to something Biblical or Greek or Roman to satisfy his need to Feel Important, but not so much as to be obnoxious or intrusive. Written in 1951 but feels more modern. In its Southern setting and culture, it's a cousin of Faulkner, but much more approachable.
The audio file was corrupt so that I couldn't listen to the end of the story. The tone of this story is languid and sad. The characters are deep, interesting creatures of their time and environment. I will definitely need to finish this one sometime.
