https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16241200-thank-you-jeeves
After a good hour of whiskey drinking and oxycontinmarket research, RYHF has put together the "Jeeves, That's Funny" Happy Package which we are making available to you, the public, for the first and possibly last time depending on how well our new and improved ShakeWeight Lotion Dispenser idea sells.
The "Jeeves, That's Funny" Happy Package was the perfect opportunity for me to get a great book and the guys at the RYHF were nice enough to work with me on flexible payment arrangements.
If you act now, RYHF will send an additional copy of Thank you, Jeeves ABSOLUTELY FREE***.
Hilarity ensues.The 2011-2012 re-read...After Jeeves and Wooster have a spat over a banjolele, Jeeves leaves Wooster for Lord Chuffnel, who is enamored with Bertie's ex-fiancee, Pauline Stoker.
Complicating matters are Stoker's dad, a millionaire who wants to buy Chuffnel's mansion, and Chuffy's, who is being pursued by Wooster's old nemesis, Sir Roderick Glossop.
When Bertie winds up engaged to Pauline instead of Chuffy, can even Jeeves set things right?After so many books, I'm almost at a loss at trying to convey the awesomeness of P.G. Wodehouse in words.
More tales of woe for Bertie Wooster, but this time he's on his own with no Jeeves to get him out of the soup.
Perhaps that's why I felt this volume - though probably as good as the rest - didn't quite resonate the way others have.
Wooster without Jeeves is like Laurel without Hardy, Abbot sans Costello.
But the good thing about reading Wodehouse is that it's like watching a rerun of an old favorite tv show: You can anticipate all the jokes, but you laugh anyway.
So although the usual winning formula goes a bit cockeyed in Thank You, Jeeves there's still enough Wodehouse-isms to keep his fans happy.
Since I admittedly like my comedy British, I decided it was time to give Wodehouse a try.
During the first few chapters, I thought, "What's all the fuss about?" There is some admittedly clever language and the strange turn of phrase, but nothing laugh out loud hilarious.
In true Wooster fashion, I thought, "Everyone who loves this man must have gone potty.
Many of the jokes aren't subtle in that you know exactly how one event leads to the creation of a particularly vexing problem for our man Wooster.
(I am trying to be as vague as possible mentioning the key ingredients of the farce without spoiling the actual events)It seems like a case that can be solved only by the oversized brain of Jeeves, so lets hope he and Bertie deal with the banjolele issue before wedding bells start to ring for the young Wooster.
Thank You, Jeeves  is an entertaining addition to the Jeeves & Wooster canon, and I highly recommend it as the perfect companion to a rainy day: It seems almost impossible, considering what the night life of Chuffnell Regis was like, but the next thing that woke me was not a girl leaping from under the bed, her father bounding in with blood in his eye, or a police sergeant playing ragtime on the knocker, but actually birds outside the window heralding in a new day.
Sublime, splendid, superb.…in short, PG perfectionP.G. Wodehouse is the funniest writer of the past century.
I read Thank You, Jeeves for my book group and, once I had started, I realised this was the third time I’d read it.
It is one of my favourites: sublime, splendid, superb…in short, PG perfection.I chuckled, I laughed and I even guffawed.
Upon finishing this wonderful book, I discovered that this is the first of the Jeeves and Wooster novels.
Up until the publication of this novel, the characters had only appeared in short stories.
Bertram "Bertie" Wooster is part of the English idle rich.Set during the Great Depression of the 1930's.Most of his friends are members of the Drones Club in London and hardly notice the bad economic conditions.He has a valet Jeeves, much smarter than his boss and for that matter his friends.Which comes in handy, as Jeeves is always getting them out of trouble.The often engaged but never married Bertie,finally drives poor Jeeves out, by Wooster's constant banjo playing.
The fun begins with the eccentric Bertie(the poor are called crazy), and his new mysterious valet Brinkley, cause the local police,the two of them , man headaches.The forever calm Jeeves will have to use all his wisdom to eliminate the misunderstandings , for a hopeful, proper,and exceptable ending .This is, England....
Oh my WORD, this was funny. I read this last year when I had to spend a few weeks in hospital and it was exactly the type of book I needed. I'm definitely ready to read more of Jeeves.
Before picking up Thank You, Jeeves, I had read several of the short stories that introduced the world to the indomitable literary pairing of Bertram Wooster and his faithful valet Jeeves.
A chance meeting of several characters from earlier stories, a run-in with the local law enforcement, an unfortunate application of boot polish and some lady trouble all add up to a hilarious adventure, with enough convenient but perfectly structured twists to keep you guessing (and laughing).
I won’t give it away, but anyone who has ever read anything about Bertie and Jeeves knows who comes to the rescue in the end.Despite the comedic situations and overall light tone of his work, don’t be deceived into thinking Wodehouse is deficient in serious talent.
And so we come to the first of Jeeves and Wooster novels.I wonder how nervous PG Wodehouse was when he sat down to write this book.
After all, here he had characters who had proven their worth in short stories, but would the material really stretch far enough for a whole novel?
Was there a danger of the whole thing becoming episodic, a series of short stories joined together?
Old P.G. always came across as a jovial and sanguine individual, but when he sat down to write this was there some sweat on the old brow?
An enjoyable story, the only jarring note being the usage of racist terms to describe the mostly off stage minstrel troupe.
I gave the book a 4 instead of my usual Wodehouse 5, other works of PGW's are just as humorous and don't have the racist terms.Still, if you are a Jeeves and Wooster fan, you need to read this one, as several characters make their appearance again in later novels.
When Chuffy falls in love with Pauline and Bertie seems to be caught in flagrante, a situation boils up which only Jeeves (whether employed or not) can simmer down...A display of sustained comic brilliance, this novel shows Wodehouse rising to the top of his game.MY THOUGHTS: I have been having a bit of a Wodehouse/Jeeves fest this week.
You really can't beat a bit of bumbling Bertie and the dry acerbic wit of Jeeves.
I listened to the audiobook Thank You, Jeeves recorded live by L.
This review and others are also published on my blog sandysbookaday.wordpress.com https://sandysbookaday.wordpress.com/...
আমার লাইফে পড়া অনযতম শরেষঠ রময উপনযাস। মন-মেজাজ ভাল না থাকার পরও, এইটা পড়ার সময় হাসতে হাসতে সিরিয়াসলি অবসথা 'খারাপ' হয়ে গেছে। যেমন উডহাউসের রময, তেমনই খোনদকার আলী আশরাফের অনুবাদ। নিঃসনদেহে আমার পড়া অনযতম শরেষঠ অনুবাদ। পি জি ওডহাউসের 'বিদঘুটে' ইংরেজি সমপরকে হালকা-পাতলা ধারণা থাকায় অনুবাদকের পরতি শরদধা আরও বেড়ে গেছে। মুগধ।
আমার লাইফে পড়া অন্যতম শ্রেষ্ঠ রম্য উপন্যাস। মন-মেজাজ ভাল না থাকার পরও, এইটা পড়ার সময় হাসতে হাসতে সিরিয়াসলি অবস্থা 'খারাপ' হয়ে গেছে। যেমন উডহাউসের রম্য, তেমনই খোন্দকার আলী আশরাফের অনুবাদ। নিঃসন্দেহে আমার পড়া অন্যতম শ্রেষ্ঠ অনুবাদ। পি জি ওডহাউসের 'বিদঘুটে' ইংরেজি সম্পর্কে হালকা-পাতলা ধারণা থাকায় অনুবাদকের প্রতি শ্রদ্ধা আরও বেড়ে গেছে। মুগ্ধ।
If you want to escape from modernity with P.G. Wodehouse you will get free tickets.The world of Jeeves and Wooster is a frozen slice of English 1920s idyll where people enjoy picnics and play cricket on the village green and people walk out in their Sunday best, the sun always shines and somewhere is the call of a wood pigeon and the sound of a church bell pealing.
The worst thing that ever happens is a social faux pas or accidentally getting engaged through farce and misunderstanding.But don't worry.
Jeeves is always at hand to rescue the day with a bit of manipulation.Delightful.
Stalin, sì. Al Capone, sicuramente. Ma non Brinkley. 4 e mezzo, quasi 5. Più per quello che manca, tipo un Gussie, una zia o qualcosa di simile. Ma quello che c'è è perfetto.Grazie, Wodehouse ❤️
In the initial chapter, Jeeves leaves Bertie’s employ, refusing to remain in the house of someone who has taken up playing the banjolele; in the ultimate chapter, he returns to his role as valet to the now banjolele-less Bertie.
The plot, too, seems richer and more complex than many subsequent Jeeves novels, nuanced and with more depth than some that followed.
As such, this initial novel-length foray into a Jeeves-Wooster world that Wodehouse subsequently explored more extensively is well worth reading.
In my experience, there are two kinds of elderly American.
He greets you as if you were a favorite son, starts agitating the cocktail shaker before you know where you are, slips a couple into you with a merry laugh, claps you on the back, tells you a dialect story about two Irishmen named Pat and Mike, and, in a word, makes life one grand, sweet song.The other, which runs a good deal to the cold, grey stare and the square jaw, seems to view the English cousin with concern.
It is not Elfin.
It broods.
It says little.
It sucks in its breath in a pained way.
And every now and again you catch its eye, and it is like colliding with a raw oyster.
More like "No Thank You, Jeeves."
”You know, the longer I live, the more I feel that the great wheeze in life is to be jolly well sure what you want and not let yourself be put off by pals who think they know better than you do." Bertie Wooster has become enamoured of the banjolele but is getting nothing but grief from his neighbours and his valet Jeeves.
After a severe disagreement about the instrument causes Jeeves to leave his service, Bertie departs for the country to practice in peace.
Madcap hijinks ensue, leaving Bertie to fend for himself without the stalwart advice of his gentleman’s gentleman.This is the second Wodehouse book I’ve read and the first full-length novel.
This is probably the funniest book I've read in a long time.
Perfectly hilarious.I love to listen to Jonathan Cecil's reading. (I am curious how much I would have liked P.G. Wodehouse's stories if I had read them by myself.)Pauline and Chuffy's struggles - ridiculously priceless. Mr Stoker, Sir Roderick... And many other characters...I am a big fan of Jeeves, Bertie and his friends. Period.
I always read Bertie and Jeeves’ exploits with a goofy grin on my face - in the brilliant words of Stephen Fry on the back of my Arrow paperback, “You don’t analyse such sunlit perfection, you just bask in its warmth and splendour.”
Just about anything by P.G. Wodehouse gets 5 stars from me!
This was fun. The quirky dialogue and the cast of absurd characters made this a nice, light pre-bedtime read. I think I will be reading more of Wodehouse when I need an extra bit of humor in my life, which is pretty much always, these days.
Jeeves is then faced with two options: 1) to continue in his employment listening to that racket or 2) heading into the unemployed life.
Like any intelligent man, Jeeves, after Bertie stubbornly refuses to give up playing his instrument, leaves his service.
He is quickly scooped up by Bertie’s friend, Chuffy, however, and continues to help Bertie throughout the novel as Bertie, at the protest of his neighbours, moves to the country and tries to play matchmaker between his friends.
Best parts for me included Bertie getting woken up/tackled to the ground numerous times by the Police and then declared as insane for sleeping in a shed.
This is the book I enjoyed least of the Jeeves books.
If this title was the first one written then the writing has gotten better since fortunately.
Thank you, Jeeves was hard to follow, as in, it seemed kind of pointless.
It killed the plot for me because it wasn't remotely necessary to the story; only there to provide some comic relief and in poor taste at that.
That said, in context it is historical evidence of the era (1930s) in which this story was written and placed so I'm not for censoring it either.I'd say skip this one.
It’s a good formula and I was very glad to see that it managed to hold up pretty well when stretched to fill a whole novel – my previous Jeeves experience being just the first three volumes of short story collections.
I doubt it’s the best of the Jeeves and Wooster series, but it’s not bad either, especially as a first try.The one warning I would give is that it is incredibly politically incorrect and racially problematic in places – a lot of the story revolves around Bertie, in blackface, trying to find some way to get the boot-polish off and being constantly foiled.
A rollicking pleasurable farce, Thank You, Jeeves delivers exactly what you want: ridiculousness, zany antics, and jokes you can see coming a mile away and yet find yourself laughing at anyway in spite of yourself. If you have not yet initiated into the delight that is Wodehouse and his merry world of over-the-top personalities, I would not suggest starting with this one. If you are already initiated, well, then I don't need to tell you much more, do I? Now let me get back to my banjolele.
Verso le 5 stelle e oltre!
The translation of the actors in short stories to the larger frame of a novel is not always a happy transition but Wodehouse takes it his stride.
Only Jeeves and Wodehouse could come up with a solution involving a travelling minstrel troop, a tin of boot polish and Jeeves replacement, Brinkley, burning down Bertie’s cottage.Only Roderick Glossop has featured previously in the Wodehouse cannon being called upon to pronounce Bertie insane on more than one occasion, however, by the end of this novel Roderick and Bertie if not bosom pals are certainly more cordial.
Reading this novel shows the short story formal was holding Jeeves and Wooster back and that if they hadn’t previously existed Wodehouse would have had to invent them.
