https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13275.Poetics_of_Music_in_the_Form_of_Six_Lessons
Stravinsky eserlerini ne zaman dinlesem, zihnimde ifade edemediğim keskin tınılar, cümleler oluşur.Kitabı Stravinsky hitleriyle okuduktan sonra Stravinsky ve eserleriyle alâkalı tüm sorularım cevaplandı diyebilirim.Aslında tüm bestecileri biraz kendi kaleminden okuyabilseydik de tüm armonizasyonu çözmek işi bize kalmasaydı :) Kitap, Stravinsky'in Harward'da yaptığı 6 derslik konuşmalarından oluşuyor.
Sanırım satır aralarında, müziğini oluştururken yaptığı felsefi sorgulamaları, girift düşünce yapısını, okuduklarını, duyduklarını, tüm çevre ilişkilerini ve içsel sürecini anlatmasını çok sevdim.Stravinsky kitabın başında anlatımlara başlamadan önce, eserlerini hangi dönemlerde ve hangi siyasi atmosferlerde yarattığını açıklıyor.
Stravinsky'nin çok keskin bir çizgisi var.
Müzik böylece kendini diğer insanla ve Yüce Varlıkla kurulan komünyonun bir biçimi olarak ortaya koyar."
tanışma, müzik fenomeni, müziğin bestelenmesi, müziğin tipolojisi, rus müziğinin avatarları ve müziğin icrası gibi bölümlerin bir ya da birden fazlasında boğulduğum, imdat çığlıkları attığım oldu.fransızca metinden ingilizceye, ingilizce metinden türkçeye çevrildiği için midir bilinmez, yazar konservatuvarda olmadığımızı, müzikal pedagojiyle sıkmayacağını söylemesine rağmen, yer yer terimlerden önümü göremediğim oldu.elbette faydalı bir okumaydı ama.
birçok not aldım, enstrüman çalan arkadaşlarımla kitaptaki görüşleri tartıştığım oldu; okuduğum için pişman değilim.ilgi duyduğum bir alana, çaldığım enstrümana derinlik kattığımı hissettiğim oldu.
daha ne olsun?belki biraz daha hafif bir şeyler ile başlamam gerekiyordu, bilemedim; belki de böyle böyle açılıyor müzik ufku.
There are composers like Arnold Schoenberg and Pierre Boulez who are also gifted communicators and insightful students of music history and theory.
Then there are composers like Igor Stravinsky, whose genius of expression lies purely in non-discursive domains.
His basic unit of thought seems to be about the size of a sentence, and Stravinsky never gives a sense of developing ideas.
The best thing I got out of reading it is a mild sense of personal connection to one of the great musical minds of the twentieth century, but he gives little insight into the nature of his genius or his method.
In his preface to this collection of lectures Darius Milhaud says, "Poetics of music is like a searchlight turned by Stravinsky on his own work on one hand, and on music in general on the other." This comment provides an excellent introduction to this short book.
Given as part of the Charles Eliot Norton lectures, these compact essays provide an insight into the mind of one of the greatest composers of the twentieth century.Half the book is concerned with music in general,focusing on the phenomenon of music, its composition, the various types of music and aspects of musical style.
These lectures by a great Russian master whose own style evolved significantly over his lifetime make great reading for all who love music.
When I first got into architecture school they gave us a list of recommended readings for the summer before our first year. Of those, this was my favorite, and the only one that wasn't exactly about architecture. It's been a while since I've read cover to cover, but I often scan if for some of the quotes I underlined (one of the few books I own I've actually done that to!)
Stravinsky represents another high point of creativity for me. After listening to his "Rite of Spring", you can be sure he was channeling something from a different plane. Pure genius. You should also give his violin concerto and ballet "Agon" a listen. One of those rare, protean spirits that comes along only once or twice a century.
the man has strong opinions, and does speak poetically about music, and in a way that could apply to more than just the subject at hand. an interesting meditation on the process of art-making in general.
Brilliant - found his ideas on composition most enlightening. Just re-read again, this was a book dug out of the "shool days" chest.-s
beautiful.
Ideas ill-defined and nonsensical.It’s like he started believing all the hype around himself and his music and gave up his improvement.I’ve browsed a couple other books of Stravinsky’s lectures, letters, and interviews and it appears that the older he got, the lower the quality of his thinking.I don’t understand the other reviews, but maybe this would help explain the 4-5 star ones:1.
Other reviewers might be swayed by the high sounding language in this book.Or3.
Maybe I just didn’t get it.If your are a composer like me or even an artist, don’t think that this book will give you any insights about the creative process.
In this series of lectures, Stravinsky goes through ideas about the artistic process, some ideas about classical music and the traditions of Russian music, and also how music is to be performed.
While I was at first surprised about Stravinsky’s conservative views about the construction of music, it made more sense thinking about his music itself.
In particular, I liked how he explored the idea of creativity, the idea of having a purpose when moving forward, even though one does not have a particular plan in mind.
These are Stravinsky's Eliot Norton Poetry lectures at Harvard from the 1930s. For someone so modern, he has a deep understanding of the music of the past, particularly Brahms and the Romantics. Hates Wagner. Fiercely opinionated, but everything sounds reasonable and is presented with brevity and clarity. The perspective of an artist on his field.
An excellent resource for learning about the creative process in music composition and even all other art forms. Appetite comes first then the idea.NOTE: I read this for HUMA 6300
a must if you love to "think music"
Essential in the understanding of Stravinsky the man. Like the Bible, it should be taken seriously but not literally.
I'm concerned that my confusion comes from the fact that our world has very much gone the way that is inchoate at the time of the lecture, that Stravinsky seems terrified will consume our musical culture.
We are now a culture that accepts and even champions the musical drama and the tone poem.
Perhaps I am just so indoctrinated by this current state of cultural affairs that I resist his notion that tone poems and musical dramas and overt musical symbolism are somehow antithetical to musical expression.My confusion aside, there are some real gems in his lectures.
Excellent (albeit short) lecture from an always articulate Stravinsky at Harvard.
Stravinsky's compositional approach changed a lot over the years, and it's intriguing to hear about his approach to composition, and his thoughts on the motivation behind his constant exploration and exploration of music, as well as where music had been and where it was going.
It is interesting to compare his thoughts to those of his contemporaries (specifically Shoenberg) and the later generation of experimental musicians in the 50's, as well as the reemergence in the 60s/70s of more secular-influenced composers like Arvo Part/Gorecki/John Tavener.
Originally published on my blog here in May 1998.This book consists of a series of six lectures delivered in Paris, translated from the original French.Considering how much I like Stravinsky's music, and how much the music he made influenced the development of twentieth century classical music, his views about music turned out to be somewhat disappointing.
The introduction, by George Seferis, is a probably best skipped, being both pretentious and uninteresting.By far the most interesting part of the book is the section on Russian music, where Stravinsky naturally has a particular personal viewpoint.


I found Stravinsky's comments on melody. improvisation, musical snobbery, and the State's influence on Russian music particularly helpful. I also enjoyed his writing style. From time to time, I pick up this book and randomly reread bits. It never fails to make me reconsider some aspect of performance or an attitude that I've taken for granted for too long. As another reviewer mentioned, I found myself underling bits for future consideration. It pisses me off when i see underlining in books. I guess this means I'll be keeping this one. I'm looking forward to reading"the Chronicles of My Life."
Igor Strakvinsky distills several centuries of musical development into this small, but insight packed, set of Harvard lectures. Originally delivered in his preferred French, I read the English translation. I most appreciated his boiling down concepts such as economy of means, into wonderfully cristallized examples, using the works of composers of various periods. Must read for any musician, amateur or professional, looking for a brief but rich summary of how music (from medieval times up to 1947) came to be as it is. Va bene.
In six lessons, Stravinsky explains his point of view in various topics, such as the work os composition, performance of works, Russian music and modernism. Although clearly these lessons are more about his only practice and not a deep treatise on his chosen topics, it's very interesting to read his thoughts on other composers' works, his position about modernism and how he sees the public and the critic.
Transcribed Harvard lectures. The first starts slow, and the fifth is probably more detail about the Russian symphonic scene that most people will want. The second, third and fourth are well worth the price of admission, giving the reader a lot to think about as well as a remarkable perspective into Stravinsky's attitudes and presuppositions.The sixth lecture I found to be brilliant. Many ideas to ponder.
"by some chance, which it pleases me to regard as a happy one, my person and my work have in spite of myself been stamped with a distinctive mark from the outset of my career and have played the part of a "reagent". The contact of this reagent with the musical reality around me, with human environments and the world of ideas, has provoked various reactions whose violence has been equaled only by arbitrariness. It seems that everyone had the wrong address".
This book is a difficult read due to a challenging use of vocabulary and the probability that some of its meaning is lost through translation. I am still glad to have read it, and would recommend it as an important read.
I didn't learn anything new about music, I just learned about all the things that Stravinsky doesn't like: Wagner, snobs, "grimacers", Soviet music... The six lessons were more like six irritating diatribes.
A fascinating document. I know next to nothing about Igor Stravinsky but found this to be an interesting book. Now I want to know more about him. He approaches music from a place I have never been but I am happy to have learned about it.
He goes on and on and on and on... but he does eventually explain some difficult concepts in music.
The clearest definition of artist pursuit I have ever read.
