https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1771550.Magnetism

A very charming collection. Quite ironically the eponymous short story was the least interesting, but all in all. A gay lecture.
Fitzgerald's conceptions of love are profound.He got me as far as having to put down the book for a moment and let all that feeling overwhelms me, right after I finished reading the first story ("The Sensible Things").
He produces love out of entwined virility conquest and feminine confusion in "The Bridal Party", from which we'd also learn about letting go.
Lastly, in "Bernice Bobs Her Hair" he showcased how female charm and attraction could be mechanically produced, and the darkly price of such scheme.Four stars, for a light reading with rich feelings.
A quick yet entertaining read. Fitzgerald focus' the plot on relationships among a group of somewhat stars. George is a charming and captivating man who oozes a warm personality that seams to draw many women. However, despite his apparent magnetism he is only concerned about one woman, Kay his wife, and their marriage. Their powerful and romantic marriage is clouded by his wife's jealousy, and her actions due to her feelings. The main conflict consists of the surprise blackmailer and her unrequited love.
It was fine, just don't get why people fall over themselves about Fitzgerald. The Bernice story was mildly amusing but the others were rather dull, a little like a Woody Allen film. A portion of society I would have hated to have been exposed to, let alone involved with, Fitzgerald just can't seem to get away from trying to explain his emotional failures and his white middle-class guilt for being such a privileged jackass. As unimpressed with his short stories as I was with the Gatsby. Much ado about nothing.
There are four short stories in this selection. "Magnetism" is by far the star story of them all. Delicious story and wonderful sentences. The star of the story is an actual handsome Hollywood movie star who gets a lot of attention romantically but doesn't really seem to notice and has only eyes for his wife. But even if the other girls not on his radar, these ladies can be trouble..."Bernice Bobs Her Hair" is also very nice, with a very surprising and funny ending I did not see coming.
3.5*
It includes three I have not read before: The Sensible Thing, The Bridal Party, and Magnetism, along with the classic early flapper story, Bernice Bobs Her Hair.
Although Hemingway chastised Fitzgerald for writing short stories for money, instead of focusing on masterpieces like Tender is the Night, Fitzgerald's short stories are far from commercial ephemera that have lost their meaning in the present.
It is only a shame that his short stories are scattered far and wide - as he would have delivered them to individual magazines in an effort to earn money - that a devoted Fitzgerald fan must constantly search for ever-more Fitzgerald stories to read.
Fitzgerald's collection of love stories united through the concept of 'magnetism' certainly makes for an interesting read. Something about people who are drawn to each other, torn apart, and yet cannot escape each other. Although many of these relationships are by no means to be ideals, they certainly open a window into the 'madness' of obsessive love. A compelling read, and page turner (despite the characters and plots being very similar, or should I say, familiar), this collection serves as a great study of the troubling facets of an all-consuming love.
Really wish this had been a bit longer because it felt a bit incomplete. Yet, for that same reason I liked it - I loved that it was just a little snapshot of a life, and that it was so vivid. Some of the characters felt a little flat and underdeveloped, but overall I enjoyed it.
4.5
First Fitzgerald. I like his storytelling.
I needed to read something short, quick and easy to get me back on schedule.
Marvellous.About the book:Four short stories originally published between 1920 and 1930.
‘The Sensible Thing’, The Bridal Party, Magnetism and Bernice Bobs Her Hair.
Despite being short, they each convey a message of a different kind of love – and indeed hate as one so often is in balance with the other.
It was Fitzgerald’s debut short story, originally far longer, but slashed to attract publishers.
An illustration of the ‘title shot’ was used for the cover of Flappers and Philosophers, his initial short story collection.
Reading F.
Scott Fitzgerald, I can almost hear Glenn Miller in the background, or imagine the characters as if they are part of an episode of Miss Fisher's Murder Mysteries.I just love the glamourous side of the 20s/30s era, with their big band music, their vibrant colours, and people's desire to have fun and dance until morning.Fitzgerald knew how to write, there is no doubt about it.
His writing style and choice of words is always impeccable.
The story, however, doesn't always do it for me.In Magnetism, I found the characters particularly unlikeable, manipulative, and fake.
This is an incredibly short collection of his short stories, and while short stories as a general form sometimes lack the power or build-up of a full novel, I still love and appreciate Scott's writing.The stories are melancholy, sad, wistful.
I love this short story collection because I love Scott's writing style.
He has this ability to narrate while weaving in the character's voice and perceptions without disturbing his own, like someone doing voice acting, but maintaining their own wry wit.If you don't like Fitzgerald's writing style, this book probably isn't for you.But if you do, then this short, sharp, sweet little quartet awaits you.
The four short stories in 'Magnetism' are all characterised by Fitzgerald's exquisite writing.
The lush, elegaic prose one expects from this writer is deployed to great effect in all four stories, but reaches its zenith at the end of the title piece.
It's just a pity that the stories are little more than vignettes: I would actually have preferred to follow one of the characters through a whole novella and I felt that the characters - beautifully drawn as they were - would have benefited from a few more chapters to work through the dillemas and issues Fitzgerald sets them up with.
I really liked "'The Sensible Thing'" and "Bernice Bob's her hair" however the other two stories did not appeal to me at all.
They were quick reads which I appreciated and will be really handy for wider reading in English, however those stories just did not interest me.
Adored "Bernice Bob's her hair" though!
It was so dramatic and brutal but also something that is strangely realistic.
I just really liked it.
'"The Sensible Thing'" made me feel sad and feel sympathy for the characters but that's what a good story is designed to do.
Overall, it was a lovely little read.
Four short stories. The first three read like '30s society movies. Everyone is beautiful and intelligent and burdened with great wealth and burning desires...The last one (Bernice Bobs Her Hair) I had actually seen a short film of when I was very young and for some reason it had stuck with me. It was strange to read through scenes I've had lodged in my head forever. Mainly I just bought it for the cover. Have you seen this Penguin Great Loves series? Gorgeous.
Four short stories, the first three were similar in theme, the fourth one deviating and my favorite one.
The first two are about a man not being able to be with the woman he loves because he hasn't made his name yet and he doesn't have the money.
The third one is about a man and his wife being enstranged even though they were very much in love and the last one is about girl rivarly with a nice ending.
Overall a good read since Fitzgerald's writing is at all times pleasant and is worth the time to check this book out.
I am a fan of Fitzgerald's short stories, and although these were brilliantly written (I've taken some notes) they did not leave a mark on me as others of his did (although that might be because I've already read quite a few--and I could also be wrong, some marks take a while to show). I can see why Magnetism is the star of the 4-story anthology, but the last one is amazing (the hypocrisy! I laughed) and the first one felt very true.
There is just absolutely nothing about F.Scott Fitzgerald that does anything for me. Nothing at all. There's nothing actively bad about this or any of his other short stories, and they're certainly better than his longer fiction, but... I'm always left wondering why he bothered. Maybe that's the whole message that Fitzgerald is trying to convey in his work: why bother?Possibly worth a re-read with that in mind - but I don't think I'll bother.
'Think how you love me,' she whispered. 'I don't ask you to love me always like this, but I ask you to remember.''You'll always be like this to me.''Oh no; but promise me you'll remember.' Her tears were falling. 'I'll be different, but somewhere lost inside me there'll always be the person I am tonight.'
This is a collection of four short stories: The Sensible Thing, The Bridal Party, Magnetism, Bernice Bobs Her Hair. They are all well written with an effortless air about them and very enjoyable. My favourite is probably Bernice Bobs Her Hair, the characters were well thought out and I loved every second of it.
In short, I do like F Scott Fitzgerald's work, because his books are reminiscent of a light read which you want to pick up to escape from the humdrum of life, except more articulate than the modern light read. Nevertheless, short stories are always appreciated and the allure of Fitzgerald's work still has its magic on me.
I don't know why but I didn't like this story much.. A story of a charming man and the circle of women around him.. The story seemed a bit vague.. But like he says,there are many types of love in this world.. We can always choose to dislike but still there are such things.. My first negative experience with Fitzgerald.. But I won't give up.. Hope to read more..
I may have grown out of Fitzgerald, as sad as it makes me to say that. I didn't find pleasure in these stories of love. I found it very difficult to believe the feelings these characters had actually was love rather than fulfillment of an expectation or some internal need. I think I need to reread the novels and see how I feel then. I was much more of a romantic in my younger days.
Collection of short stories about love and relationships. My personal favourite was the fourth and last story "Bernice Bobs Her Hair" possibly because it was one of the few that wasn't so much about romantic love.
Hayal kırıklıkları,aşklar,kıskançlıklar..4 öykü olan kitapta eksik olan bir şeyler vardı ve yahut derinlik yoktu denebilir.
Courtship was much different during Fitzgerald's lifetime
Ugh Fitzy the things you do.
