https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/542414.Scorpia
So he goes in search of Scorpia, hoping to learn more about his dead father and perhaps about himself as well in the process.For once it’s not about this random guy who has a gazillion dollars who was killed recently or is in need of protection.
Usually he is focused on his missions so much he barely has the time to think about himself, but that’s what he’s doing right now, while still putting himself in danger (because danger is Alex’s middle name, did you not know?)Incidentally, this was the longest Alex Rider book so far.
اینکه آیا پدرش یک آدمکش بیرحم بوده؟ و اگر این موضوع حقیقت داشته باشد چه تاثیری روی الکس میگذارد؟ آیا همکاریش را با سازمان ام.آی.سیکی ادامه میدهد؟ (از آنجایی که حقیقت اسراری که الکس به دنبالش است نزد گروه تروریست عقرب نهفته است) آیا با این گروه تروریستی همکاری میکند، تا انتقامش را بگیرد؟ و با شنیدن دروغهایی که در مورد پدرش گفته شده و حال روحیش را تضعیف کرده، مثل همیشه از مردم خود حاضر است دفاع کند … ا.
Don't get me wrong Alex has done a lot more things then any 14 year old would be doing at his age but i feel like this book he was really put through a test.
Alex is really lied to by every single person in this book and he doesn't have any clue who he should trust and i feel like there is no one left.
But as things unravel throughout the book we see that MI6 and his father were working together and we see that Scorpia were the ones in fact that killed both Alex's mother and father in the plane crash.
He ends up working for them, but after hearing about there evil plan they have come up with that will kill Thousands of British schoolchildren he double crosses them in the end.
I think one of the weaknesses in this novel was the reason for which Scorpia planned to kill Thousands of kids.
And I also liked how the Author made it so that Alex would have also died with the schoolchildren if the plan had gone through.
If you like novels that have suspense, a good, interesting plot, and decent action I suggest this book.
After reading several reviews I notice that at the beginning of the novel “Scorpia” by Anthony Horowitz, the reader does get glued to the book. I found myself continuously telling myself “five more minutes till I go to sleep.” But as the book progressed I was slowly convincing myself that the book was not up to my level and something that I could have been reading in grade 6.  Horowitz starts the book off really well. He immediately introduces the conflict in the novel. The antagonists are all i
After reading several reviews I notice that at the beginning of the novel “Scorpia” by Anthony Horowitz, the reader does get glued to the book.
Horowitz starts the book off really well.
(29)” It happens too many times in one novel.Another thing I despised is how Alex’s work seems way too easy and highly unlikely.
I especially disliked the time where Alex was trapped in the room which floods and somehow gets through the crevasses of the floor and escapes.
This was the time where I disliked the large amount of description.
my fav alex rider book till now
I thought it was pretty good, though it was a lot like the last book. The whole series is kind of repetitive. Other than that though, it wasn't bad.
I mean, yeah, the other Rider books are pretty great in their own right, but just as I was starting to get bored (I mean, well, not really .
I'm pretty desperate for reading material these days) Anthony Horowitz pulls something new out of his hat and viola (yeah, viola), you have a fresh new plot and a refreshed new interest in the Alex Rider series.
It was a good book, but it's considerably below reading level and I shouldn't be eating it.
(I mean, I shouldn't be eating books of any sort .
Not one Alex Rider book has yet to disappoint me. The book "Scorpia" takes so many twist and turns to the Alex Rider series. The only thing I have to say is that the books are getting a little repetitive. I feel like the same thing is happening in every book, and Alex is just going to some different country than before. I still really enjoyed this book though, and I think you might like it.
4.5 That ending though! Phew. Not quiiite a 5 stars because there are a few plot contrivances, but it's pretty much expected for the genre. Some of the great escapes/break-ins Alex pulls off are pretty sweet. And we finally learn more about Alex's family and their past.
Okay, so that was different from the previous Alex Rider books.
OH MY GOSH, I ALMOST WANT TO SPOIL SOME THINGS BUT I CAN'T BUT I WON'T.It was different, guys.
It was an Alex Rider book, all right - non-stop action and lots of twists and turns - but it broke out of the mold some of the previous books had been crafted in.
I mean, if Eagle Strike was a game-changer, then Scorpia is an EXTREME game-changer.Some stuff involved in this book:- BASE jumping- a woman named Julia Rothman- the prime minister- running all over Venice- Nile the black and white man- a...
My heart is feeling things.
Before he died Yassen told Alex that he and Alex’s father used to be comrades and if Alex wanted to know more about his father and his father’s life he must go to Venice where he should find Scorpia.
Alex when through a trainingand after it Alex is sent on his first mission – to murder Mrs. Jones, the MI6 operative who was responsible for John Rider’s death.
For example, the whole part of Alex Rider trying to kill Mr. Jones has a ton of action.
Alex Rider is full of mistery in the first couple books with all the missions that he is sent on.
One of the finest books i have read and this book is so engrossing that i read it in one single stre
I feel like the author is just recycling plot from earlier books in the series - this was very similar to the plot of book 2. It's still very fast paced, but I'm getting a little bored with MI6 seeming to turn heel every 4 chapters. There was a very quick development in maturity, and the plot twists can still be seen from 100 miles away.
With a convoluted plot and plenty of action, Anthony Horowitz delivers another winner.
the book starts of with alex rider being told by his friend and caretaker if you could call her that
On the other side, Alex Rider hates these two organisations, especially MI6, because they use him too much and makes Alex miss most of his schoolwork and ruined his freedom to be like a normal schoolboy in England.There is one person who Alex likes in MI6.
The Smithers also enjoys making cool gadgets for Alex as he has never done anything like this before.When the Smithers creates gadgets, the Head of the MI6 Organisation, Alan Blunt, does not allow Alex to have any lethal weapons but the Smithers still makes lethal weapons like a missile shooting bike.
(view spoiler)[I was not expecting the book to end that way.
I mean I"m sure Alex isn't actually dead since there's a whole bunch of books left.
But I'm glad I didn't read this and have to wait for the next book, because the end was just so intense.
If it weren't for the fact that there's so many more books, I would be so upset with how this ended.
Alex is the main character and he can't die unless it's the last book, and even then I don't think I would be okay with it.

I think it is a good book because it has a lot of action and betrayal. I would recommend this book to anyone who likes action, suspense, and science fiction.
This book is pure genius. All the mystery, suspense, and action of this book is addicting. Alex is an amazing character. I am excited to continue to read the books in this series. What I like most about Alex is that he is younger than the other people that work on his field. I highly recommend this book the anyone into mystery and being a spy. A great book.
Scorpia is the fifth book in the Alex Rider series. Alex is a teenage spy for a government agency in England. He sets out to find a woman Yassen Gregorovich, an assassin he’s run into many times, told him about. She is part of the terrorist group, Scorpia. Alex finds her and asks about his father, whom she knew very well. His father was an assassin and Alex is asked to join Scorpia as well. Throughout the book Alex fights himself about the decisions he makes. He is given a mission to kill his f
Scorpia is the fifth book in the Alex Rider series.
Alex is a teenage spy for a government agency in England.
His father was an assassin and Alex is asked to join Scorpia as well.
Throughout the book Alex fights himself about the decisions he makes.
Like any other teen, Alex would rather go out and have fun with friends and be normal.
The company he works for brings him in when he’s needed and Alex doesn’t always like that.
It is full of action and adventure and they can connect with Alex because he’s a normal teen outside of MI6.
The teenage spy, Alex Rider, sets off to find Scorpia.
This was because he had learnt that his father had something to do with Scorpia.
He really wanted to know more about his parents, because he never had met them.
In a school trip in Venice, he finds Scorpia and follows them to their main quarters.
There, he learns that Scorpia is planning for thousands of children to die.
Unfortunately Alex gets involved in this evil plan.
Since he was already involved, he decided to save these children that are about to die.
Then he figures that everything he has been told about his parents was a lie.
It is so intense and it is full of so many criminal minds that you have to realize that Alex Rider is a 14 year-old genius.
Another genius in this book is Mr Smithers who is a really fat person who makes awesome but realistic gadgets for Alex.
In this book it was full of death and revenge so if you do not like criminal violence that is actually realistic then I would not recommend this book to you but if you like nerve-racking, intense, a little bit of violence and good books then I would recommend this book to you.
OH MY GOSH!!! THE BETRAYALS. THE SECRETS. THE LIES. I LOVED IT SO MUCH.
Hoping to find something on Scorpia, he goes off the name of Julia Rothman and ends up finding her desk, her vicious pet tiger, and her wing-man, Nile.
Mrs. Jones and Mr. Blunt, had called in a man who had been kidnapped by Scorpia.
The man told Alex that his dad had not been working with Scorpia, but with MI6.
They had set up a fake death for John Rider, Alex's dad, to get him out of Scorpia, and they had "traded" him for the man and then "shot" him.
New York: Penguin Books, 2004Recommended for grades 7-9Scorpia is an action packed adventure story from start to finish.
Claiming to have been a spy who was held captive by M16 a “secret intelligence” unit, Alex admits to his best friend Tom that he had come to Italy because he was told by Yassen Gregorovich, the assassin who had killed his uncle that if he wanted to find out about his father, he should go to Venice to find Scorpia.
At the end of his last mission, a member of the organization known as Scorpia had told Alex before he died to go to Venice to find his density.
After a few days, he was called back to MI6 HQ and they told him everything, about how they didn't actually kill his father and it was all a cover, because Alex's father actually worked for MI6, not Scorpia, he was just undercover and did very well.
Alex felt happy and sad at the same time because it turned out his father wasn't a bad man, but Scorpia soon figured this out and actually had him and his wife killed while on a plane.
3.5 Starsbetter than the last one but....'STILL BADI expected so much from thisthe plot twists were goodthe characters were sorted out perfectlythey shoudv'e let him shoot mrs.jones(that woudve been cool)and the ending had a really good plot twist tooso all in all it was a bit better than just finebut not good
Action-packed and suspenseful, this is a great book for advanced middle-school, or high school readers. I wouldn't recommend this book if you are looking for a more mature novel, however it is a fun and quick read, and even has an unexpected ending.
