https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6687247-too-big-to-fail
That’s when Joe or Jane Taxpayer, who a few years earlier were sitting there grumbling about the damn guvment keeping the businesses from earning an honest buck, will lose their goddamn minds over the possibility of the government providing cash to these companies to keep the entire economy from going into a death spin.
But no government regulation either!So rather than holding our noses and spending $50 billion dollars to save Lehman Brothers and AIG and shore up a few other companies and then passing some sensible regulations to keep it from happening again, the government, fearing what Joe or Jane would say, tried to force a private sector solution and ultimately let Lehman go into bankruptcy.
So these big investors were pulling their money out from everywhere and looking to the Far East and points South, North, East and West where the bankers had been more regulated by government and not allowed to carry on risking people's money to the degree there was no longer enough to pay people their money back.So the banks couldn't pay back the depositors their money, and like a pack of cards one after the other began to collapse.
Big tough bankers swear and dick around like petty real-estate salesmen from a David Mamet play.It's also a good history of part of the 2007-2009 recession, specifically the collapse and restructuring of the investment banking system.
It does a good job of this, with a Woodward/Bernstein style look at how deals were made.The problem of this book is the lack of general context - how the crisis even happened, with barely any mention of the real estate bubble and only a few pages devoted to derivatives.
The strength of Sorkin’s book, which covers the period right after the fall of Bear Stearns (March 2008), up to the TARP infusions of capital (October 2008), is that he synthesized masses of detailed information and assembled it into a chronological story, using multiple firsthand accounts, contemporaneous journalistic sources, and public records.
The weakness of the book is that it’s as if the entire crisis of 2008 unfolded in a vacuum, divorced from the enormous real estate bubble, mortgage frauds, toxic assets, complex derivatives, deregulation, and banker greed that caused it.
The degree of detail is about as granular and exhaustive as it gets; I think Sorkin explored every phone call, landline or cellular, that every Wall Street executive made or took during the crisis.
In Too Big to Fail Andrew Ross Sorkin achieved the impossible, he made the 2008 financial crisis accessible to a wide variety of readers. His tightly woven and meticulously researched narrative feels like a movie script, which is why it is no surprise that it eventually became one. Sorkin does a great job in setting out the circumstances that led to the failure of the banks, and then chronicling almost day by day the decision making process behind the eventual bailout. One of the best financial books I've read!
So I teach banking law and I assign a bunch of articles and documentaries on the crisis and I lived through it so nothing in here was new, but I wanted to read this after 10 years to see how well the narrative has aged and also because I forgot some of the play by play.
Sorkin seems to have a big crush on Dimon and Paulson.
I do think it's an important read for those people who don't remember the crisis--for example, my students were in middle school.
The level of detail is astonishing in this comprehensive insider's look at the 2008 financial crisis including the failure of Lehman Brothers and the response of government regulators. This book will be an undeniable resource for historians in the years to come. Unfortunately that same level of detail also cripples the book somewhat, making it too unwieldy and dense to be fully appreciated by the average reader.
I have 5 books on the 2008 financial crisis and this is the largest.
Just "make a plan", "give me your Plan B", "call that guy", "make a deal", "come up with a solution", blah, blah, blah.
Not surprising that this guy has written a slanted, partisan account but it is more a gossip column than a useful history.
If you want a great explanation of the origin of the financial crisis, read The Big Short: Inside the Doomsday Machine or the first 37 pages of The Sellout: How Three Decades of Wall Street Greed and Government Mismanagement Destroyed the Global Financial System.
This is NOT a book about the financial meltdown -- if you want something that explains the crisis, you are better off reading Wikipedia (seriously!).
I find it troubling that the book is written like a suspense novel instead of a factual account and analysis of the actual event.The book is not badly written; I can fully understand why people love it.
There is this subtle hint of admiration in the author's story-telling.
Playing recklessly with other people's money, raking in record high $$, crashing the system, bailed out by taxpayers, and NOT penalized in any way or form -- wow, the glory, the excitement!
Finished -- I imagine this book would be a tough read, since it's pages literally crawl with minor characters -- bankers, minions of the armies of the night...
but it makes a good listen -- Paulson comes off much better than Bernanke or Geithner -- and the author tries (against Taibi) to rehabilitate Goldman.
Had Morgan failed, Goldman would certainly have been next...
perhaps earlier...., but that wouldn't have been allowed to happen; and Citi, of course, had a different status from Goldman, being a bank).
Or at least what the crisis looked like from the top: It’s really the story of what the heads of the biggest financial firms were up to, and the federal regulators (mostly the Treasury and the Fed) who were trying to prevent the financial sector from collapse.Mostly it just feels like reading about this chaotic charade with a bunch of crazed sleepless CEOs and lawyers and accountants trying to figure out what deals they should or should not do.
Whereas the movie had several illuminating scenes that put the events into vernacular for someone like me, I found that the book was a bit too hard to grasp.
Rather, the material is so dense, and the factors so similar (derivatives, credit swaps, etc) that the book-format made it tougher to keep track of what actually happened.
In the end, I came out the other end wanting to see the movie again to clarify what I had just read.That said, I do think this is an excellent book in several respects.
My only complaint is thus something that was out of Sorkin's hands- namely, that the material was tough to grasp.
This book made me mighty mad, not only at the despicable characters portrayed in it, but at the author for his adoring, fawning approach to them.
More than once I slammed the book down, only to force myself back to it a week or two later.
And for that persistence I was rewarded---ever so slightly---by Sorkin daring to approximate analysis in an afterword.
To judge by this book, Sorkin never met a Wall Street bigshot he didn’t worship.
2. Use credit carefully - credit is good when exercised with caution and always prepare for a worst-case scenario.
In fact, re-examine your assumptions of a worst-case scenario on a regular basis.Memorable picture from the book: Picture of the check for $9B from Mitsubishi UJF financial group to Morgan Stanley to help them with their liquidity crisis and prevent another collapse.
Andrew Ross Sorkin's Too Big to Fail is the crowning achievement of them all, appearing on several "need-to-read" lists for the controversial economic shindig that eclipsed so much of the last year's of the Bush administration.
Than why does it come off like the economic and political thriller version of a Dan Brown novel?This book chronicles the "behind the scenes" action during what could be termed Wall Street's annus horriblis, 2008.
Assembled from oral recollections, and a library of primarily documents, Too Big to Fail is a 'who was where, when' of the economic crisis.The book has a lot going for it actually, and it's easy to see where the lauded praise comes from.
that started a domino effect that many people believed would result in the failure of many more banks, resulting in a Depression that would surpass the one in the '30s, thus leading to the government's intervention and the unpopular bailouts, which (depending on one's perspective) either saved us or simply postponed the inevitable.Basing his book on thousands of interviews, memorandum, transcripts, e-mails, audio and video recordings, news articles, and public records, Sorkin has written a non-fiction account that, at times, reads like fiction.
As Sorkin describes, it was down to the wire as Paulson and Timothy Geitner---at the time, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York---puppeteered the strings of Wall Street and government to get things done.
This book is a great feat of reporting - Sorkin conducted thousands of hours of interviews and obviously put a lot of research into reconstructing all the events surrounding the meltdown on wallstreet in 2008.
For all its exhaustive reporting, the book is incredibly light on analysis.
The book reports pretty much everything that happened, while saying remarkably little about why it happened, what it means, how we go here, and where we might go next.I suppose the book is meant to be more reporting and less analysis, but the book is so heavily weighted towards the former that it really detracts from the gravity of the final product.
I guess we'll have to wait a few years for some meaningful works of analysis to emerge.
One should always be reminded of the excellent quote in the end of the book by Theodore Roosevelt's speech in Sorbonne in 1910:"It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better.
This book is a reportorial non-fiction style book with a dash of fiction-like drama that is low on the "why" and heavy on the "who" and "who said and did what when." That part is done fairly successfully, although readers should be forewarned of two challenges.
First, there is a very lengthy cast of characters and organizations to keep straight, even with both the essential comprehensive chart at the front of the book and also the helpful photo pages that appear mid-book.
Secondly, there is no glossary to help the uninitiated with the finance style vocabulary peppered throughout the text.
I picked this book up mistakenly thinking it was Paul Bunyan's memoir. It was not, but enjoyable anyhow.
كتاب يستعرض الأزمة المالية التي عصفت بالاقتصاد الأمريكي سنة 2008 والتي كانت لها تبعات على كل الاقتصاد العالمي.الكتاب مُمّل في أغلبه، تفاصيل كثيرة لا تمت للموضوع بصلة، خاصة ما تعلّق منها باستعراض تاريخ بعض الشخصيات (مدراء بنوك)، الكتاب ضخم (600 صفحة) ولا أرى السبب الذي دفع الكاتب إلى حشوه بهذا الشكل (لو كان كتابًا قصيرًا لتفهمت الحاجة إلى ذلك) أو ربما كان ذلك الحشو سببًا في وصول الكتاب إلى 600 صفحة.
إن لم تكن أمريكيًا أو مقيمًا في أمريكا أو مُهتمًا بالشأن الاقتصادي الأمريكي/ العالمي فقد لا ترغب في قراءة هذا الكتاب (قد يكفيك ملخص له أو بضعة مقالات أو حتى بعض الوثائقيات المبنية على مثل هذا الكتاب).
It was certainly revealing to see how some truly fought to save their firms...but at the same time, distressing to see how some, at least, continued in denial right up to the end, while others continued their preoccupation for titles and positions and salaries and bonuses even as the were grasping at straws to save the world as they knew it...a world which was invariably crumbling because of their own greed and selfish shortsightedness.
There was a similar book written (and which I read) after the savings and load crisis of the 1980s that resulted from Reagan's deregulation of that industry, a crisis that also cost the government billions of dollars (though I believe less than the current crisis).
Andrew Ross Sorkin's "Too Big To Fail" is a kind of maps 'n' chaps version of the Global Economic Meltdown of the Year Eight--- a vivid, well-researched, very well-written account of the events that led up to financial chaos in September and October of the Year Eight and culminated with the TARP program and the effective nationalisation of a number of major banks and brokerages.
Sorkin has written a fine account of what happened in the autumn of 2008, but it's like battle history that's only about generals and their maps, with no context and no history.
Too big to fail è una cronaca dettagliata della crisi finanziaria di Wall Street del 2008, che mise a rischio l'intero sistema finanziario globale e culminò con il fallimento di Lehman Brothers.
Il racconto inizia con l'acquisizione da parte di JP Morgan di Bear Sterns, la prima delle "Big Five", le cinque più grandi banche d'affari di Wall Street, a crollare.
Questo primo collasso genera una reazione a catena che porterà alla crisi non solo le altre banche d'affari, ma anche società apparentemente inaffondabili, del calibro del colosso americano delle assicurazioni AIG.
I felt that the author of this book, though comprehensive in his detail, too often gave an apologetic and even rationalizing explanation as to the motives and intentions of the primary actors in the catastrophic events and decisions that took place.
One of the biggest take-aways from this story is that Hank Paulson and Timothy Geithner (government agents) got all the CEOs (of the biggest banks, trading houses, etc) into one room, and coerced them into taking TARP money.
And though most of the CEO's gladly took the money and government assistance, some did not want to take the bailout money.
What options did they have, what decisions did they make?
Who helped and who hurt?The meat of this is the decision to bail AGI out and let Lehman fail.
It was not simply a decision by a few--it was a decision by players around the world (like the Bank of England).This book is really about how complicated our financial system has become, and how fragile the conduits of credit are when initial minor problems (like the Bear Stearns failure) echo through the system.
You can learn a lot about crisis management and its pitfalls from this book
The best chapter is the epilogue, where Sorkin can step back and use a wider lens - I wish the rest of it had come from the same vantage.Ultimately, this book is about the people involved in the crisis and bailout - if you're looking for analysis of the processes, or some sort of explanation of the numbers at work, this is the wrong place to look.
But, for an historical look at the people and events who made the past few years so fun (and certain passages and asides make it clear that Sorkin hopes there's a longer shelf-life to this book than most), it's fairly comprehensive.
It has a lot of information about the financial crisis of 2008.
While it's informative, you almost need a degree in finance to follow it some of the time, or that's what it seemed like to me.
I definitely learned a lot more about those events.
I also learned that, from what I could tell, some, if not most, of what happened could have been prevented.
Raging ego has no place in deciding things that effect an entire nation, and even those beyond.
I don't know much about finance, and I'm even less inclined to venture into that world having read this.
Never did I ever expect to fall so deeply enthralled with the inner lives of CEO's, Federal Reserve Chairmen and government officials. What I love most is that Sorkin writes so candidly that you find yourself lost in the turn of events yourself. By the end of the book I was pulling for people to whom I never thought I would give sympathy, and rooting against people I originally thought I liked. Definitely worth the read, even if you have no interest in the subprime mortgage crisis.
Subprime crises- behind the scene! Amazing book. I wonder what all the author would have gone through to collect and collate this kind of information. From Bear Stearns to TARP, everyone involved and the conversations that took place; all so palpable.
