https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/530451.The_Spirit_of_Zen
Watts (The Spirit of Zen, Pg.18)THE DEAD CARCASS OF YOUR WISDOM WILL BE BURIED“Briefly, this doctrine is that man suffers because of his craving to possess and keep for ever things which are essentially impermanent.
Watts, The Spirit of Zen: A Way of Life, Work and Art in the Far East"'To live with your wife and then see your eldest son grow up and be a man, and then not to shed a tear over her corpse - this would be bad enough.
This introduction to Zen Buddhism is Alan Watts' first of many books on Eastern religion. It's a very satisfying read, written in the eloquent and lucid style that Watts would come to be known for. Watts had a way of simplifying the most complex concepts, as well as capturing the elusive. Here, he captures the elusive spirit of Zen.The book itself is elegantly designed and a pleasure to hold in one's hands.
More history/academic than I like
A very basic (and yet worthwhile and informative) introduction to Zen and Buddhism, recommended for those with some curiosity and little knowledge on the subject.
AMAZING. My copy is not from 2006, more like 1966. It's tattered and sections are falling apart. I keep it together pushed together by other books. It's a BIBLE. It's a better codex than the bible!! Although it's not really a code to live by, it explains Buddhism SO SIMPLY that it exemplifies the philosophy of buddhism in the explaining of it. BRILLIANT. And truly underrated--READ IT!...just don't try and borrow my copy. Sorry.
A wonderfully written introduction to the world of Zen, covering everything from the history of Zen, to the Tea Ceremony, the arts of Ju-Jutsu and Kenjutsu, and the ancient code of Bushido. This book gives a lot of information while giving very little, which is perfect when trying to describe the art of Zen, for Zen is life, and so it can never be truly described or contained, even on paper.
Watts helped popularized Zen Buddhism in the West with the publication of this seminal work. Easy to read, the book is an excellent primer in the subject of Zen Buddhism.
This unique, mind-boggling breed of Buddhism which is both profound and absurd, serious and playful, defined in all things but altogether undefinable, is a way of life that distinguishes itself from other religions and 'philosophies' by being so intrinsically intwined with Life that trying to capture it with abstractions taints its essence and distances us from the true meaning of Zen. The Zen masters are renowned for their illogical, nonsensical hilarity when faced with serious questions.
Libro introduttivo allo Zen disciplina complessa nella sua apparente semplicità, ma forse proprio ciò che è semplice e sotto gli occhi di tutti i giorni non viene mai preso nella giusta considerazione e ci neghiamo volontariamente tanta parte di bellezza che ci circonda.Un modo di approcciarsi alla vita molto lontano dall'ottica occidentale.
What it points at is fantastic. But the paragraphs are overly long and the explanations overly academic. Can't help but feel he's taken short of the task. Still, I got a ton out of this book and an really glad I bought an old used copy on a whim.
Helpful for any westerner who would like to see where to start with eastern philosophy. I knew most already so it was just refreshing
The most clear explanation of zen that I've heard.
From what I have learned of Zen Buddhism, the notion of putting its core tenants into writing is a bit paradoxical, but, as with any subject, a bit of studying is required in order to begin down the path towards understanding.
Watts' treatise of Zen is a wonderful place to start for the westerner just beginning to expand his or her pallet to the wisdom of the East.
Whether you are a spiritual seeker disenfranchised with the monotheistic traditions of the West or a student of the world's religions, Watts provides a captivating introduction to the world of Zen that is easily accessible to anyone.
Zen budismo é apresentado como filosofia em que o signo e significado devem estar harmonizados, por isso Watts deixa claro que ele apresenta alguns signos mas a busca do significado dependerá do leitor.
E ainda aponta o rumo para isso desapego, observar o fluxo, não oferecer resistência (jiu-jitsu, arte zen, arte do espírito, no flow sem buscar perfeição).
Perspectiva teleológica da ação o samurai manuseia uma espada, ele é a espada, não existe separação.
Não existe um deus lá em cima que coordena os fluxos de eventos conforme nossas virtudes éticas.
Uma ótima leitura para, ainda mais depois de ler uma novela antinilista Demônios de Fiódor Dostoyevisky.
Como una introducción al budismo zen, me parece que el libro tiene éxito.
Sin embargo, el libro posee varias virtudes de una obra introductoria, como claridad en la exposición, y el recurso a una serie de analogías que iluminan bastante bien las ideas más extrañas del zen.
Por supuesto, como el autor enfatiza a lo largo de la obra, el lector no puede esperar obtener un entendimiento cabal del zen (ya que no es posible obtener tal cosa de un texto), pero una cosa que el libro sí ha conseguido, por lo menos en mi caso, es despertar mi interés en el tema.
I found this book on the sidewalk in New York. Since somebody left it there to be picked up and i love it when books find their own miraculous way into my lap, now it seems has come the time for learning about Zen.
Good. Thorough. But put me to sleep so quickly that it took me a few weeks to finish.
Great introduction to Zen. Allan Watts offers great insights into the practice of Zen. This book is a very good start for someone interested in Eastern philosophical thought.
Well-written (Mr. Watts always is…) and easy-to-read introduction to a lot of aspects of Zen.
Worth a read to get a head start into the world of Zen..
The way of all Watts.
A good basic introduction to the history and practice of Zen. Watts was a salient writer and deserves his reputation.
Amazing. So many overlaps with astronomy.
Good overview of the influence of zen on different aspects of eastern culture. A good read for anyone interested in zen.
I read this book back in the mid-1970's when I was exploring Zen & eastern religions generally. An excellent introduction to its subject, although hardly the last word on Zen.
