https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1931948.The_Problem_with_Thor_Bridge
Maria Gibson is shot through the head while standing on Thor Bridge on her estate, the family’s governess, Grace Dunbar, is soon arrested for murder.
Not only does she admit meeting her mistress on the bridge, the police find the murder weapon in her room.
He hires Sherlock Holmes to get to the bottom of it all.
The Senator admits that he and Miss Dunbar have affections for one another but that neither of them had anything to do with his wife’s death.
Dr Watson is convinced that the Senator is the culprit, but Holmes comes to an entirely different conclusion.
This is the first Sherlock Holmes mystery I have read, and I foresee it will be the first of many. This was a short, very interesting read - I can definitely see how Sherlock Holmes has weathered the ages and is still a beloved classic character!
predictable
A not so intriguing plot.. represented as a very complex one.. with an unexpected & a little too fabricated end.Yet, enjoyed it a lot. As always.
A genius detective who will always solve the case, no matter how long it will take him to get the answer.
Man! I know people can hate others to the point where they commit murder, but killing yourself just to frame them is extreme. It's like killing yourself and the two birds with the same stone - LITERALLY!
Very Jane Eyre (Highly recommend that book if you enjoyed this). Seems like Arthur Conan Doyle was a Jane & Rochester shipper, considering how the wife who was pushed to suicide is portrayed as the villain, getting in the way of the abusive husband and the young governess.
The seventh short story in The Case Book of Sherlock Holmes by Arthur Conan Doyle. A murder mystery for Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson. Clever and entertaining.
He became attracted to Miss Dunbar; since he could not marry her, he had attempted to please her in other ways, such as trying to help people less fortunate than himself.Maria Gibson was found lying in a pool of blood on Thor Bridge with a bullet through the head and note from the governess, agreeing to a meeting at that location, in her hand.
If the murder weapon was one of a matched pair of pistols, why couldn't the other one be found in Mr. Gibson's collection?Holmes uses his powers of deduction to solve the crime, and demonstrates, using Watson's revolver, how it was perpetrated: Mrs Gibson, outraged and jealous of Miss Dunbar's relationship with her husband, resolved to end her own life and frame her rival for the crime.
The Problem of Thor Bridge, which first appeared in 1922, is actually one of my favourite Sherlock Holmes short stories from the collection “The Casebook of Sherlock Holmes” first published in the Strand Magazine.
Watson’s tin dispatch box located in the vaults of the Cox and Co. Bank is mentioned for the first time.
As we all know this tin box contains details of some of Holmes’ unsolved and unfinished cases.
Like all short story collections you can read the lot or just dip in and out as it suits you and “The Casebook of Sherlock Holmes” is no exception.
Madame Gibson a été retrouvée morte, une balle tirée en pleine tête.Toutes les preuves pointent vers
The fact that the whole issue can be resolved through the observation of principally one location makes it is very focused and typical of the best Holmes stories, in which his deduction skills are the key to solving the crime (an entertaining the reader).
Furthermore, this is one of the few Holmes cases that can A) be solved by reading it and B) are not easy to guess while C) still making sense in the end.
Of course, like most Holmes stories (apart from the four novels that is), it is a very short read, but short and sweet it is.
Watson começa esse conto provocando o leitor com várias histórias não publicadas das aventuras de Sherlock que, por um motivo ou por outro, ficaram trancadas, esquecidas em seu cofre no banco.A Ponte Thor traz uma brasileira como vítima e se apóia muito no estereótipo de latinos de sangue quente - a senhora Gibson lembrou-me o caso da esposa de Mr. Rochester, de Jane Eyre. Mas, mesmo com essa estereotipação, tenho que concordar que o conto funciona muito bem da forma como é trabalhado.Impressionante a que extremos se pode chegar em busca de uma vingança...
When an American magnate's governess is accused of his wife's murder, the sleuth is called in to investigate."It was the chip in the bridge"
This story has great twist. Once again a live of an innocent girl was placed upon Sherlock's hands . But is she really innocent as she seems to be ? . Another mind boggling nonstop SH adventure which I've read more than 10 times. Really liked the surrounding of this story and the practical methods Holmes used to solve it.
Though the ending was predictable, but I still gave it 4 or 3.5 to be exact as the cunning thought was every impressive. Loved it. :-D
A fine example of Holmes - the crime has multiple logical possible outcomes, and Sherlock engages in interview, investigation, and experimentation to ferret out the correct conclusion, without giving the game away to the reader too soon. Well done!
Holmes and Watson are on the case as the beautiful wife of a ruthless and wealthy gold magnate is found dead on Thor Bridge. All clues point to the late woman' household governess; but Holmes says otherwise. An enjoyable but shortly lived adventure the dynamic duo.
11/27/14 3.5
An intriguing short story. I have enjoyed all of the Sherlock Holmes books which I've done so far. He is a character which seems to make any story enjoyable.
This was an interesting short story where Holmes must prove a woman's innocence despite all evidence pointing towards her guilt.
I've always thought this was one of Holmes's finer observations.
Lovely twist
