https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72159.Cat_on_a_Hot_Tin_Roof
It is in this light that I read the Cat on a Hot Tin Roof and enjoyed its characters, for which I rate four bright stars.
Tennessee Williams takes us to a plantation in the south where two brothers, Gooper and Brick, are jockeying for position to get the upper hand in their father Big Daddy's will.
Perhaps if I had viewed this play live I might have thought differently, but I enjoyed the second act more than the third, primarily for the exchange between Big Daddy and Brick.
I enjoyed the personas of Brick, Maggie, and Big Daddy, and sneered at Mae who embodies the old south.
Set in the "plantation home in the Mississippi Delta" of Big Daddy Pollitt, a wealthy cotton tycoon, the play examines the relationships among members of Big Daddy's family, primarily between his son Brick and Maggie the "Cat", Brick's wife.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: هفتم ماه جولای سال 2002 میلادیعنوان: گربه روی شیروانی داغ - متن کامل نمایشنامه در سه پرده؛ نویسنده: تنسی ویلیامز؛ مترجم: مرجان بخت مینو؛ کرج، مینو، 1380، در 160 ص، شابک: 9647487002؛ موضوع: نمایشنامه های نویسندگان امریکایی سده 20 ممگی می‌گوید: «می‌دانی من چه احساسی دارم؟ همیشه حس می‌کنم مثل یک گربه روی یک شیروانی داغ هستم.» بریک در پاسخ می‌گوید: «پس، از روی شیروانی بپر پایین مگی!
بپر!» مگی می‌گوید: «بپرم کجا؟ به چه امیدی؟» بریک پاسخ می‌دهد: «یک عاشق گیر بیار.» مگی: «مستحق این کار نیستم.
I'm not sure that you can consider yourself a "southerner" or even from the south if you have not read Tennessee Williams' plays - all of them. I may be a transplanted Hoosier now, but rest assured, I have read and adore all of Williams' plays. They are, without a doubt, some of the very best of American literature and, by far, in the top tier of Southern Lit. This, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, is one of his best!
The characters in Cat on a Hot Tin Roof all have these strange reasons for living, all based off of some sort of character flaw.
The way the flaws tie all the characters together symbolically is brilliant.Maggie especially has a strange reason to live: to be the Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, with no purpose in life other than to endure the unpleasant heat, to survive it.
Classic drama that deserves to up there with the greatest plays ever written.The story is centered around a family in crisis, a sizzling drama of desire, avarice and deception set in the steamy American Deep South, you can almost feel the heat coming off the pages. The play condenses so much life and emotion, it's remarkable really. Feuds, tortured pasts, anger, guilt, love, jealousy, envy, revenge, sorry, sadness, lust, all crammed into a relatively short work. Would love to see it performed on stage, but the book ain't a bad alternative. Well worth reading.
Εξαιρετικό, δυνατό γράψιμο που κρατάει καθηλωμένο τον αναγνώστη!#readathon18 Ένα βιβλίο που ο πρωταγωνιστής προσδιορίζεται σαν LGBTQ+
I loved this play as a teenager -- the feverish pace, the soaring poetry of the big speeches, the way Big Daddy was everything my father wasn't and the way Maggie keeps sighing over Brick.
Brick is a thirty year old man.
And a real straight man -- especially a gorgeous football star from a very wealthy family -- would have had lots, and lots, and lots of women besides Maggie The Cat!Maggie is just as unreal as Brick.
Maggie fixates on all the most unreal things -- Brick's phenomenal beauty (which magically gets even more irresistable once he becomes a hopeless drunk) his childlike helplessness, his inability to protect himself, his parents or his wife .
Very powerful, enjoyable read.
I particularly liked having the very specific stage directions, so meticulously explained and set out by Williams for readers as well as directors and performers.
Also enjoyed the accompanying essays about the development of the play along with director Elia Kazin and Williams' own essay about the play.These are not people I would want to spend time with; they don't want to spend time with each other.
The way Williams lets the anger, frustration, thwarted love, hatred, jealousy, fear, and so many other emotions out through this family's interactions is so well done.I have not read a play for years but will definitely make drama more a part of my routine in the future, especially Tennessee Williams.Highly recommended.
I'm sure this story caused quite a stir when it was first published in 1954, even so Tennessee Williams was famous for continuing to rewrite aspects of his plays several times over decades.
Eldest Son Gooper ( yep - a horrid name) the eldest brother who is a lawyer is here and has brought his wife Mae and their 5 children to be by his ailing father's bedside.
And finally we have the favored son Brick , beloved by his father but obviously an alcoholic who is hateful to his wife Margaret who unsuccessfully tried to use her beauty and sexiness to keep him with her.
Set on a large, rich and successful Mississippi plantation in the heat of a 1950's summer, family members come together to celebrate a big birthday party and bring along their avarice and greed as well as their mendacity in hopes of acquiring a big piece of inheritance when Big Daddy kicks the bucket.I have always loved the movie with Elizabeth Taylor and Paul Newman thus decided to find out if the play was similar and was surprised at two major differences....(view spoiler)[Maggie did not sleep with Skipper in the movie nor was there indication of a homosexual relationship between him and Brick....AND....Big Daddy does not say Crap when he is disgusted....he says BULL!
Tennessee Williams has truly created a masterpiece.
Greed, jealousy, homosexuality, indifference, alcoholism, and desire are all laid bare in one way or another in this play.
Some of the other characters in the play may not be as full of life as Maggie.
What she wants most of all is a baby from her husband Brick because she knows Brick is Big Daddy's favorite son.
Maggie thinks a baby will secure the future for her and her husband.I love this powerful Southern story.
Never does Williams make a false step.
This is a play I can read over and over again, and I love the title.Perfect.
What a terribly, messed-up family. I loved every minute of it. This is one I would definitely enjoy seeing performed. My third Williams play, and possibly my favorite. Though how can you compare Maggie to Blanche DuBois. Nonetheless, excellent play.
A rich family diseased with secrets and malcontent, happy children and conniving daughter-in-laws, lovable big mama and sycophantic sons.
There is greed, internalized homophobia, coming to terms with death of a great friend, seeking a lover, finding the perfect buzz - the moment when thinking shuts down; its of sons and fathers, of mother and son, of husbands and wives, jealousy and happiness.For what its worth, Maggie wants to stick with Brick knowing he isn't interested in her.
Maggie wants her husband Brick.
Big Mama wants everyone in family to get along.
Big Daddy wants Brick to stop drinking.
"Ο άνθρωπος είναι ζώο θνητό, ξέρει ότι θα πεθάνει, αλλά αυτό δεν τον κάνει να συμπονάει τους άλλους ανθρώπους....
αγοράζει συνέχεια πράγματα, όλο αγοράζει - κι ο λόγος που τα αγοράζει είναι ότι στο βάθος του μυαλού του φωλιάζει η ηλίθια ελπίδα ότι ανάμεσα στα άλλα που αγόρασε μπορεί να είναι και η αθανασία!"Αλλά ο άνθρωπος είναι το μόνο ζωντανό πλάσμα που αντιλαμβάνεται τι είναι ο θάνατος, που ξέρει τι είναι ο θάνατος!
Τ' άλλα πλάσματα πεθαίνουν χωρίς να ξέρουν, χωρίς να το μάθουν ποτέ τους, χωρίς τη γνώση του θανάτου - κι όμως το γουρούνι στριγκλίζει, ενώ ο άνθρωπος μπορεί και κρατάει το στόμα του κλειστό.
Review to come.
The part I liked most was the stage direction in which he says "The bird that I hope to catch in the net of this play is not the solution of one man's psychological problem.
أحببت أيضا "توجيهاته المسرحية" الطويلة والتي هي في الحقيقة أكثر من مجرد توجيهات مسرحية؛ إذ أنها في بعض الأحيان كانت أقرب إلى تحليل ووصف للشخصيات وللتيارات التحتية التي يجب أن يشعر بها المتفرجون, وكنت في كل مرة أتساءل عما إذا كان يمكنه كتابة هذه القصة على هيئة رواية !!؟؟ أكثر جزء أعجبني كان التوجيه المسرحي الذي يقول فيه المؤلف : إن الذي أهدف إليه في هذه المسرحية ليس حل المشكلة النفسية لأحد الأشخاص.
Selbst nach dreimaligem Lesen vermischen sich meine Vorstellungen von den Figuren auf dem Papier mit denen auf der Leinwand.
Sie sind zu unterschiedlich geraten, ausgenommen vielleicht die Darstellung von Maggie der Katze.Seit jeher fasziniert mich die Unwetter-Stimmung dieses Stückes; wie sich allmählich jahrelang verborgene Wahrheiten wolkenbruchartig über die Familie Pollitt entladen.
Die Handlung lebt von einigen faszinierenden Elementen, wie der Anspielung Maggies auf die homoerotische Beziehung zwischen ihrem Mann Brick und des verstorbenen besten Freundes Skipper.
Doch dann folgen zwei Versionen des Dritten und letzten Aktes, mit denen ich inzwischen nicht mehr leben kann.
Soll dadurch ihre Ehe gerettet werden, die gar nicht mehr existiert?
Williams has included his original draft of act 3 and the performance version, modified in response to the original director.
Over-all I think I like the original version more.Williams does some things I don't recall ever having seen before; he discusses the audience in stage direction and at one point rambles off into philosophising about the purpose of drama and such like.
That comes as a bit of a shock after previously reading no drama except Ben Jonson this year, where-in you're lucky to get anything beyond entrance and exit instructions.My only other experience with Williams is a production of The Glass Menagerie.

"Postoji samo jedna važnija stvar od pamuka, koju možeš da gajiš na velikom imanju, a to je tolerancija! Ja sam je uzgojio."Ova rečenica me oduševila :)Gajite toleranciju, širite ljubav i čitajte knjige.
So much has been said on this play already, I don't think I'll be able to add anything of interest, but here are a few thoughts.Our English teacher made us watch the movie in class when I was in high school, and I found it fantastic.
Both are great, but reading the play adds to much layers to your understanding of the story.
I would love now to watch it on stage.I like that in this edition, we have two endings to this play, the original one and the broadway one.
I actually like the original one better, but I also understand why changes were made.
That said, I did not know about the homosexual undertone of the play...
because the movie makers chickened out and turned the whole admiration between Brick and Skipper upside down.
There is no hint at homosexuality in the play, maybe once in an ironic smile of Big Daddy.
And in the film Brick actually desires Maggie.
Which in the play is not the case because, and that is not to be denied, Brick and Skipper were in love.
Brick is in denial and Skipper was about to tell him and that is one reason that the whole play is moving right on spot two of my favorite play's list (Othello will always be the lead).
بيشتر از باغ وحش شيشه اي دوستش داشتم و كمتر از اتوبوسي به نام هوس. تنسي ويليامز ثابت كرد؛ اگه داستان جذابي هم براي گفتن نداشتيد با شخصيت پردازي قوي ميتونيد مخاطب رو همراه خودتون بياريد و در مواردي حتي ميخ كوبش كنيد.
Great play...love the theatrics.
My favorite lines of Margaret talking to Mae:Why did y’give dawgs names to all your kiddies?
Dogs names?
Dixie, Trixie, Buster, Sonny, Polly!
Sounds like four dogs and a parrot.
I cannot wait to watch the movie.2/1/18 Update.I watched the movie and loved it!
Oh, Elizabeth Taylor was so beautiful!
I would give the movie 10 Stars!
The director did an awesome job recreating Tennessee Williams’ play.
I can see the minor script changes from the story, but it works fabulously.
Why have I never seen this movie?
I am such a fan of the TCM channel.
Un mare talentat este Tennessee Williams. Ce imi place cel mai mult la piesele lui de teatru este ca sunt profund umane, ca au o actiune liniara, dar nu sunt legate de un context temporal, sunt general valabile si sunt la fel de actuale si acum.
ویلیامز از طریق ناتوانی بیگ ددی و بریک در برقراری یک مکالمه آزادانه در مورد موضوع مورد نظرشان سعی می کند عدم توانایی انسان ها در برقراری ارتباط را نشان دهد، مساله ای که منجر به تنهایی و انزوا می شود.
این پرسش فرازمانی و دراماتیک در نمایشنامه مطرح می شود: "لعنتی چرا حرف زدن برای آدم ها این قدر سخته؟" هیچ انسانی نمی تواند به این پرسش یا هر پرسش مشابه ای که حاوی رازهای بی پایان روح انسان باشد، پاسخ دهد.
Olay, oyunun ana karakterlerinden olan Brick'in ölmek üzere olan babası Koca Baba'nın çiftliğinde geçiyor.
Brick, çok yakın arkadaşının ölümü üzerine kendini alkole vermiş, hayattan adeta kopmuş bir adam.
Bu durum en çok karısı Maggie'yi etkiliyor; çünkü Maggie ve Brick uzun zamandır bir cinsel hayata sahip değiller.
Maggie para ve sosyetede statü sahip olma gibi hırsları olan oldukça alımlı bir kadın.
Olay boyunca Brick ve Maggie'nin çatışmalarını, Koca Baba'nın ölümü üzerine paylaştırılacak olan miras nedeniyle her türlü ikiyüzlülüğü yapan aile bireylerini, para ve sosyal statü için her türlü fırsatı kullanan insanları okuyorsunuz.
I have seen the film version of this play with Paul Newmann and Elizabeth Taylor as the main characters and it is truly one of my all time favorites.
Of course, this is why I wanted to read the play.
I will say that I believe I enjoyed reading this play having already seen it as, of course, there is not much more than simple dialouge to read.
Having said all of that, I think this is a fantastic story of family conflict on a Southern plantation with unique characters.
La gata sobre el tejado de zinc caliente se acaba de convertir en uno de mis libros preferido, simplemente me ha encantado. La historia se centra en la celebración del cumpleaños de Sr. Pollitt, y no hay más personajes que la familia, el doctor y algunos criados, durante la celebración se suceden una serie de situaciones que tienen como fondo la intención por parte de unos y otros de heredar la plantación de algodón que levantó Sr. Pollitt. Se lee en un ratito y merece la pena. Estoy segura que pronto probaré con otras obras de Tennessee Williams.
Amazing play by a talented writer.
