https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/762598.The_Warriors
The author sought to take a little-known Greek story called the Anabasis, an epic about an army's long retreat through hostile lands, and recast the epic in a hellish, gang-ruled New York.
The book traces the Dominators' long flight from a violent gang "summit" downtown back to their turf in Coney Island.
People expecting to read of gangsters in baseball regalia emerging from the Yankee dugout, (as happens in the film), will be disappointed by this dark and brutal account of the gang's retreat back to Coney Island.

Sure, it's hard to believe that the film-version Warriors (again, excepting Ajax) would be quite as honorable in real life as they are in the movie, but their honorableness nonetheless makes it much easier for audiences to root for them to make it back to Coney Island safe and sound (not to mention to sympathize with them, for example, in that scene where the two happy prom couples board the subway train, eventually notice the Warriors in their disheveled state, and fall silent as their joy turns to fear/repulsion--then quietly flee the train at the very next station).One chapter in the book did affect me deeply, though.
Also, the point of view is from the gang and the author uses gang lingo for his story telling.
This is a dark story that shows that the characters are not "heroes" and doesn't glorify them like the movie.
There are several disturbing scenes to show the author's intent of these characters being in a gang because of poverty, unstable family life, and loss of hope.
I love the movie and as a kid I wanted to be in the "Furies" gang.
This book represents what gang life is like for the poverty stricken.
Between the spots of good dialogue and thrilling fight scenes (as well as dark entropy, this is not a book for the soft-hearted or easily offended, racial epithets get thrown and HARD) there are long stretches where Yurick's greenness as a writer (Warriors was one of his first published novels) really shows and the creaking of a fledgling reaching too hard and too far above his station for literary greatness.
It's a great piece of writing that really resonated with this amateur writer's heart in terms of attempting to yoke together so many disparate influences together into a coherent (and meritorious) whole.
This was one of those cases where it doesn't hit me until I finish it.
Those last two pages, they hit me like a punch.
This is, in my opinion, a novel that defines a generation of youth, a group of kids who don't have a voice.
There is no Hollywood ending.
This is a real novel, and the ending really struck a chord with me.
I hate to be cliche, but to quote the movie, which is one of my all time favorite films and introduced me to the novel, I have to ask you one question...Can you dig it?5/5
Things like making the gang mixed instead of all black, not using the slang that he worked so hard to portray accurately (apparently he sat in a rented van for weeks observing urban gangs talk and interact) and he thought the acting was generally poor.
A lot can be read into that, but I won't go into it here.The end of the book was another thing that a lot of people took issue with.
There's is something similar to that restlessness and need for change, but as with so many other things in the book, it's a lot more subtle.I originally read this book to fuel my obsession with the movie.
How the cult classic movie was derived from this book I will never know.
I loved the movie and picked up the book hoping to find something equally enjoyable.
Two murders, and a couple of gang rapes later, I find that Sol Yurick has illuminated the following points: 1) Teenage kids make poor decisions.
2) Being poor sucks.
3) It is hard to get from one end of New York to the other by Subway.
That is about all I took from the book.
There is no suspense or drama really, just a lot of walking and traveling.
I imagine nobody reads this without having seen the movie first so I think it's fair to review the book in comparison with the film.
The actors in the Warriors movie deliver curt dialog that merely frames the action.
In Yurick's book - the dialog IS the action.
In fact...the first script of the movie featured a scene where "Swan" gets captured by The Dingos, a homosexual gang.
Throughout the novel, a gang member named Junior reads a comic-book version of the Anabasis, a not-too-subtle "Greek chorus" of sorts parallelling the novel's modern story.In the novel, The Warriors, a gang called the Coney Island Dominators, also known as The Family because their unit is structured like a family and substitutes for their own dysfunctional ones, find themselves similarly deeply stranded deep in the Bronx before struggling to make their way across the city over the course of an entire night.
This, unfortunately, isn't a case of the book being better than the movie. Of course I compared the two, having seen the movie first. For a book about a gang, it really was lacking in action, but what I did appreciate was the fact that a philosophy behind why the characters chose to be in a gang, the structure, and rituals of the gang, and so on, were included, as well as the social commentary. Those things added value to the book, but still weren't able to trump the campy goodness of painted-faced, bat wielding psychos.
Very rarely do I say a film is better than a book,but in this instance I have to hold my hands up and say the film wins hands down,Although well written the author tends to over elaborate and dare I say waffle on far to much,whole chapters are devoted to just one scene,ie the chocolate bar on the subway train,leading to a book that is hard to really get in to,most books I struggle to put down,this one I struggled to pick up
"What he said must be simple, for most of them were not quick of Understanding. What he said must be spoken quickly, for most of them had no Patience. What he said must be put strongly, more acted than spoken, for the had to be Hooked to stand and hear."I feel that one Halloween, all of my friends and I shall dress up in one of the gang members outfits. It must be done.
i learned dat dis book waz like a bigggg waste of my lyfe and tyme
Different to the movie, grittier and reads like a form of social commentary as well as entertainment. The movie is more of a fantasy in comparison. Both are excellent.
I'm sure some will complain about the violence in this. Until I see violence stop in the real world, all who oppose violence in video games etc. can f**** off.
I have literally no idea how this dumpster fire of a novel ever got published.
(originally reviewed at  elphareads.tumblr.com )Let me tell you guys about an amazing movie called THE WARRIORS. It is a 1970s cult classic about a gang from Coney Island called The Warriors. During a meeting of all the gangs in New York, being held in the Bronx, the leader of the most powerful gang, Cyrus, is killed by an assassins bullet. The Rogues did it, but one of the Warriors saw it happen, so the Rogues say that the Warriors did it. Now the Warriors are stranded so far away from Coney Is
There are classic lines and scenes, such as Cyrus’s ‘CAN YOU DIG IT?!?!’ and Luther's 'WARRIOOOOOORRS, COME OUT TO PLAAAAAAY!', and I have a tee shirt with one of my favorite gangs from the movie, the Baseball Furies, who legitimately look like New York Yankees sporting KISS make up.
I want an end, like I’ve hammered over the head a bunch of times, where The Warriors play in the sand and jump around to The Eagles.
THe first is that, unlike in the movie where only Rembrandt looks like a kid, it is made perfectly clear that The Dominators are a bunch of children who have been dealt a crappy hand in life.
I chose this book because I found the cover very legit because of the way the Coney Island Denominators looked.
This book is very twisted (in a good way) because it has a bit of everything.
This is a story about a gang, the Coney Island Denominators trying to go back home from a gang convention that was held at the Bronx.
On their way back home they run away and fight off from cops, rival gangs and even prostitutes that are making them get caught up.
On their way back they meet up with the Boricua Blazers which the Denominators make them look like chickens.
The movie is resolutely 70s, the book is definitely 60s, with a lot of 50s holdover (every character wears a hat).
The movie stars men marching as an army; the book, teenagers.
Furthermore, in the book nothing much happens.
A small group of the young go into New York City to represent their gang at a big meeting.
The meeting falls apart almost immediately.
They hate cops because cops are unfair and will beat them.
Spiritually, this book is second cousin to A Clockwork Orange by Anthony Burgess, weird slang included, except that it’s a kid’s journey to being a slightly older kid.
I love the Walter Hill movie and was intrigued by the idea of a Marxist updating of The Anabasis.Reading the novel now was a surprise, disappointment, and revelation.
A surprise because it is so different from the film.
And a  disappointment for all of the reasons above.
Hill's move is like William Gibson brought to the screen—extraordinarily intense, quick, intelligent.
Yurick is nothing like Gibson as a writer—he's all about character and set-up, not event.
So I think I was looking for something the novel never meant to deliver.And then a revelation because the novel is so troubling and insightful on its own terms.
Its impeccable geography.The story concerns a Coney Island street gang, The Dominators (NOT The Warriors), called to a gang summit in Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx, along with every other gang in New York.
Me, I liked the way the author meticulously described the route from Van Cortlandt to Woodlawn Cemetery, then over the wall and down the hill, over the bridge, up the elevated line to the 2 subway, along southern boulevard, then into Manhattan, transfer at Times Square to the D train (at that time) and to Coney.
I started reading this years ago and kept thinking, I've seen the film, no need to read the book.
Yet the book is so different to the film.
The book has insights the film scrapes over and translates violence into cool.
The book is rather about weaknesses and the way violence is written is far from cool, it shocks instead.
The aspect of cool is only in the characters who discover other things besides violence in themselves, private moments of deep thought, fear, and questioning of the system they are against as well as the system they are a part of.
Un libro que tiene buenas ideas pero cuyo desarrollo se hace pesado y repetitivo. Cuenta la historia de un grupo de pandilleros en una época que no queda clara, puede que incluso en un mundo distópico o futurista (aunque esto tampoco queda patente en nada en concreto). Muy lejos de otros libros relacionados con este tema, como The Wanderers de Richard Price. En definitiva, una novela prescindible que posiblemente aún se lea -al menos ha sido mi caso- por el éxito que tuvo la película.
The concept was good, but the delivery weak. A group of warriors, a street gang from Coney Island, journey home from a meeting uptown. The story is meant to parallel ancient Greek tomes. Some of the characterizations were weak, the authors understanding of street youths despite his background in sociology seemed inaccurate from my own experience, and the story meandered about without a sufficiently strong central focus. I still thought it was a good story, but it could have been much better.
Honestly I found it difficult to give the book a fair shake since the movie is a cult classic. I compared the two in my head as I read and it might be because of this that I found the story pretty dull (that subway again!) and lifeless (almost melodramatic). It isn't often I like the movie better, but here it is most definitely the case.
I can dig it.
So, when I came across this book in my local library, I checked it to make sure it wasn't some cheesy novelization of the film; however, upon reading it, I realized that not only was it not a novelization of the film but that it also differed greatly from the film in a number of ways.
For example, Walter Hill's film does a great job portraying the Warriors (called the Dominators in the novel) as out-of-their-element street toughs who have to bop their way back to Coney Island after they are accused of the murder of the head street tough, Cyrus (named Ismael in the novel.) So, despite their flaws, we find ourselves rooting for the Warriors throughout the film.
So different in fact that in another world I could imagine an indie director (like the late John Cassavetes or even Gus Van Sant nowadays) having done a faithful adaption of the book and both movies could've coexisted peacefully.The afterword by the author (from 2013, some 38 years later) is a trip.
Almost 30 pages of what sounds like a college senior tooting his own horn and making sure you know he's well-read and has an impressive vocabulary in that skull of his but the last few pages dedicated to the movie vs.
But I'm left with conflicted emotions having now done so.I'm fascinated and intrigued by the picture painted by the book, especially by the fact that it was released in the mid-sixties - something which generated discord on it's own as I can't picture the setting as being anything other than that of the movie.The narrative does much to justify the blurb on the front cover of my copy; which proclaims it as "The most dangerous book since 'A Clockwork Orange'".
This is probably down to having been spoilt by the movie, which paints the characters with enough likeable traits to garner a degree of hero worship, which they are denied in the book.
