https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91017.Rubicon
Julius CaesarIn 49 BC when Julius Caesar made the fateful decision to cross the Rubicon with his soldiers, and march on Rome this was the beginning of the end of the Roman Republic.
Just a few decades before Caesar’s march on Rome Sulla and Marius were embroiled in a battle for power.Everything culminates when Sulla wins the right to go East and fight Mithridates.
His arch rival Milo, was a Pompey supporter, so along the lines of the enemy of my enemy is my friend he became more closely aligned with Caesar after Crassus died.This is a different kind of politics with Clodius and Milo having bands of thugs who fought epic gang style battle through the streets of Rome.
The Good : Holland has an impressive understanding of Ancient Rome and the institutions of the Republic. What's more, this understanding was apparently acquired under the influence of a passionate enthusiasm for all things related to the Mistress of the Mediterranean; and this, combined with his novelist's skills and grasp of language, allows him to whip through the centuries without ever getting hung-up upon minutiae or buried beneath the weight of the various personalities who boldly and ener
What's more, this understanding was apparently acquired under the influence of a passionate enthusiasm for all things related to the Mistress of the Mediterranean; and this, combined with his novelist's skills and grasp of language, allows him to whip through the centuries without ever getting hung-up upon minutiae or buried beneath the weight of the various personalities who boldly and energetically bestrode the foredeck of the Republic.This truly is popular history at its best, a breakneck ride through the tumultuous doings of the Roman Republic in the last century before the birth of Christ that still exert their enthralling spell upon a whole host of modern readers.
Armed with the HBO series derived knowledge of ancient Rome, I always used to think myself an expert on the era.
With a flippant, relaxed and easy telling of the story Holland has just made me even more comfortable in my entertainment-based version of the history of Rome.
It is such a simple story, is it not?
The whole city has the same sort of people and the direction of the Republic was like one unwavering arrow and everyone stays true to their characters.
Narrative history is squarely in vogue as Holland asserts and we are all the better informed for these assertive linear narrations of history.
For example, the patron-client model (essentially institutionalized mafia social dynamics) explains a lot about why the different personalities acted the way they did in the waning years of the republic and is widely accepted and understood amongst historians of antiquity, but Holland barely goes into it.
The people living in antiquity had a world-view and understanding of their place in the universe and society VERY different from ours.
The job of the popular historian is not to make them appear as modern people in the old, tired vein of 18th-19th century historeography, but make us understand them even as they confuse us in their decicions and archaeic worldview.
As Cicero once stated, “The fruit of too much liberty is slavery,” and so, as the book unfolds, we hear of how the almost religious sense of community felt by Roman citizens and of politics and power in the history of Rome.This book is full of famous names and events.
In fact, the author cleverly uses modern titles and sub-titles to help us understand the context of events – so you read, “The Winner Takes it All,” “Luck Be a Lady,” or “Blitzkrieg,” and know exactly where the author is expertly leading us..“Rubicon,” covers a vast time period and a huge cast of characters.
Understanding the Roman people – and the importance of re-branding – Octavian became Augustus and held power for forty years.

In the few days since I finished this book the initial vague feelings of disatisfaction have coalesced into a malignant lump of unfufilled ambition for the book.
The opening chapter promises so much that the rest of book falls resoundingly flat.In 49 BC, Ceasar crossed the rubicon with his army and thereby ended a proto democracy with dictatorial rule by deified monarchs as the prevalent form of government for the next millenia and more.
Its ends with Octavian coming out of nowhere and taking the whole show over.
Its all interesting and well written but I cannot help feeling that the inititial ambition is deftly sidetepped for the temptations of biographical titliation.
He’s covering quite a lot here, really putting the moment of crossing the Rubicon into context, and it can feel both a little jam-packed and a little dry as he crams everything in.For the most part a good read, though a fairly traditional account of the doings of men in classical history.
Breezy and brisk, Tom Holland tells the story of the early Roman Republic and the counterintuitive yet inevitable transition to a monarchy in a style that is very easy to read.
Romans likewise cherished the illusion of public opinion swaying the direction of their city and nation, when in truth the ruling class held sway more and more as years passed, as the Republic gradually metamorphosed into a plutocracy.Because this period of Roman history has been covered to great extent, it's difficult to question the veracity of historical fact Holland presents--he offers up seven pages of source material in defense of his writings.
Marius the retired Military hero is appointed commander to fight Rome’s enemy Mithridates.
Sulla then challenged Marius for the job which caused a civil war in Rome.
When the Senate decided to try to stop the Pirate harassment of Roman citizens, which had grown substantially over the decade, they called on Pompey.
The Senate sensed Caesar’s intentions called on Pompey the Great for Rome’s defense.
As Caesar troupes moved at an accelerated pace Pompey left Rome to assemble troupes to battle and end Caesar’s ambitions.
However, the Ides of March 44 BC the great Julius Caesar was stabbed 23 times by among 60 enemies including men named Casca and Brutus.
Often unnecessarily so, I think - there's a difference between describing Clodia as flirtatious and as a cocktease, for instance, and I don't think it's a word you can apply backwards to first century BC Latin with any great efficiency.There are also one or two instances of a slight cultural bias sneaking through, despite Holland's best efforts at cultural relativity - as far as we are concerned, yes, the marital practices of the Ptolemies are incestuous.
If I had to read the phrase 'Oriental decadence' once more, I would have thrown the book across the room, I think.In all, it's a good, mostly intelligent popular history.
Contar por enésima vez la historia de la República, desde su formación hasta la irrupción de Augusto, puede parecer algo manido.
los hechos son más o menos conocidos.
Cómo el mantenimiento de la libertad y la búsqueda de las glorias personal y de la República pudieron estar detrás de todas y cada una de las decisiones que la convirtieron en la potencia hegemónica en el Mediterráneo...
y la terminaron devorando desde dentro.
El uso de un lenguaje un tanto informal le imprime garra, algo que sin duda atraerá a los más reacios a acercarse al ensayo histórico.
For the generation that had lived through the civil wars, this was the consolation history gave them.
Out of dispossession could come the renewal of a civilised order.(from July of 2005) I finished the above by Tom Holland today at lunch.
A (near)Footean examination of the short-lived Roman Republic -- the text has flourishes of prose but it is the titanic visiage of the people themselves which carry the text.It also appears that in the aftermath of the Republic it was Augustus who served as the origins of Conservatism, welding self-interest with tradtional ideals onto the unwashed.
Πολύ καλή περιγραφή και ανάλυση της πιο σημαντικής περιόδου της ρωμαϊκής ιστορίας. Ειδικά για έναν μη σχετικό με το θέμα, ανοίγει το ενδιαφέρον και κυρίως με ορθή ερμηνευτική προσέγγιση και σκιαγραφηση προσώπων.
With “Rubicon: The Last Years of the Roman Republic,” Tom Holland has taken the ancient sources and fashioned an absorbing narrative of the waning years of Republican Rome. Holland transformed his source material, which often seems dry and obtuse to modern readers, into an exceedingly readable tale -- even though he is guilty of occasionally lapsing into glibness. Holland earned a strong Four Stars from me as well as an interest in reading his other works.

I am a big fan of Roman history & have really enjoyed television shows such as HBO's Rome & STARZ's Spartacus and historical fiction by Simon Scarrow and Conn Iggudlen.
For years I've had a collection of Roman history books such as Livy, Plutarch, Suetonius, Polybius, etc.
I'd highly recommend this book for people interested in Rome & the fall of the Republic and especially for anyone who's tried the authors previously mentioned, but had difficulty.
After reading four of his books, I find I can predict his judgements on this or that historical event or personage with considerable accuracy.
And of course, the periods of history he chooses to write about – the High Middle Ages, the birth of Islam, the Julio-Claudian dynasty in Rome and, in this book, the last days of the Roman Republic – are replete with blood and thunder.
A thug and a sanguinary despot he may have been in his youth, but the age of Augustus actually was like the good old days of the Republic.
Tom Holland’s narration of the fall of the republic is a deft bit of popular nonfiction: educational but not pedantic, eloquent but not pompous.
Of course, this is what all writers of narrative history must do.
But, being a popular writer and not a historian, I suspect that Holland’s interpretations were chosen more for vivacity than veracity.
That comes with the territory of popular book-writing, however, so I don’t blame him in the least.(Speaking of which, here’s a little thought I’ve been turning around: why are so few popularly read history books written by academic historians nowadays?
Even if you already know the story, this book will give you new insights and a fast paced account of the Roman Republic that is always fun to read.
The author quickly covers in the first part of the book from the beginnings of the republic until the Gracchi brothers.
What follows in detail is the core of the book; the emergence of Pompey, the biography of Caesar, and the struggle of Cato, Cicero, and others during this complex revolutionary period.
After this the focus zooms out again through the civil war between Caesar and Pompey, Alexandria, Mark Anthony and Octavian (Augustus).
The story fades out with Caesar Augustus' death.
Any book recounting events from antiquity suffers from a dearth of primary sources (especially when compared to the record keeping of the modern age) and while we may know the broad strokes of the major events of an era, the finer details such as famously uttered lines at pivotal moments are almost surely the inventions of subsequent generations immortalizing key moments in the recent past.
More inquisitive readers interested in alternative accounts can certainly get a push in the right direction from the bibliography of sources and there are bound to be more inquisitive readers by the time they wrap with this volume on Roman history.
The whole story plays out over 100 years, but it is a sign of the turbulent and exciting times that the entire scope of history moves forward with exciting inevitability.From the first chapter of Holland's book, I was captivated.
It is not idealized or romanticized--it is, in fact, a period of brutality and cynicism--but he is careful to present flowing prose in a manner that allows for the reader's investment and involvement without sacrificing the necessary detachment from the actors in the Republic's ongoing self-destruction.I personally am inspired to delve deeper into the lives and histories of some of the lesser known names that dance in and out of the narrative, both villains and tragic figures, to whom I had never give more than a cursory thought.
I recently finished reading Rubicon by Tom Holland, which tells the historical tale of the Roman Republic from it's inception until its ultimate demolition at the hands of Augustus, when the Republic was formally and forever transmuted into the Roman Empire.
Through the spoils of war, Marius made himself the richest, most popular man in Rome and a political power against which the frail checks and balances of the Republic seemed no match.
When Octavian finally crowned himself Caesar Augustus and pronounced the Roman Republic to be dead once and for all, I have to think that most Romans must have breathed something akin to a sigh of relief.
How anyone can manage to render a history of Rome that is rather glib is beyond me, but that's exactly what Holland has accomplished in this work.
I tend to like more meat on the bones of my history, so the nebulous "communes" of Romans flowing hither and yon across wide expanses, both in time and place, were dissatisfying to read.
I've read historical novels that had a better sense of time and place -- so much more evocative of the era which they wrote about than this work of "history".
This is not good history- no matter how many primary documents the author reviewed, there is simply no way for a modern author to get into the heads of the ancients.
This is a world in which Greek towns welcomed home their sailors with phallic processions, in which women paraded through the streets with large, penis-shaped dummies on sticks.
We simply cannot wrap our heads around the true motivations of people so long gone.I found the author's "great man" approach to history also quite frustrating.
He offers some discussion of important women, as well, but virtually ignores "the masses" and the slaves of the period, simplifying history into a history of the elites.
I first wanted to read this book after listening to the Hardcore History podcast series on the fall of the Roman republic.
The host, Dan Carlin, recommended Rubicon for a more in-depth treatment of the subject matter, even though the podcast came in at around six hours.Carlin was right, Rubicon treated the topic exhaustively, but the narrative flow was superb.
At times it was like reading a political soap opera.
Even with the heavies like Sula and Augustus, Holland showed that their motive were always something they use to justify their deeds.The one drawback was something common to all books from this era and most distant history: It was primarily one side of the story.
Rubicon is breezy, colloquial, and fun to read, so it can't possibly be authentic history. This is character-driven narrative history, like the TV histories but better sourced. There are pitfalls to this kind of history telling: timelines get squashed and contemporaneous events play out sequentially, but framing history around the most spectacular characters keeps it interesting, even if it feels at times like eating Lucky Charms from the box.
Not my kind of history book. Written like a novel.
Holland's writing really brings to life all of the personalities at war during this time, and I came away from this book wanting to search out more in-depth biographies of many of the figures he speaks of.I was particularly engrossed by Sulla - who not only marched on Rome twice (!), and the installed himself as Dictator, but then enacted serious political reform in an attempt to basically prevent anyone from ever doing what he did again.
Rubicon is a riveting account of Rome and how the once noble (for the time) ideals of the Republic succumbed to atrophy and intense political and social machinations.
Occasionally, Holland launches into describing the important aspects of life, the value of politics and education, the place of women and children in Republic, the differences between the West and East of the Roman Empire and the how the rivalries that tore apart Rome originated from key players in the fight for dominance.
I would definitely recommend Rubicon for readers looking for a detailed yet lively introduction to the Roman Republic.
