https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/421642.The_Four_Story_Mistake
Following on from the first book, the Melendy family move from the city to the countryside to live in a house called The Four-Story Mistake.
We loved following the children explore their new surroundings, it was lovely to make the discoveries as they did as we hadn't read any reviews with spoilers so everything they found was new to us too.
Each of the characters is so distinct, so singular, so real (even the dogs, for heaven's sake) that the inclusion of "Mona said" and "Rush said" is practically superfluous.The storyline is lovely.
I'm still trying to decide what I feel dates a book, as I've had some disagreements regarding this with other Goodreads people (Wendy, I'm looking at you).
I love the wartime flavor, the feeling of what it was like to be a kid during WWII, how it permeated everything in ways I'd never thought of.
I love the way Enright allows her lyrical style to run rampant.
And the illustrations, of course, oh how I love the illustrations.
"I don't know why I like the Melendy books," he said to me the other day, apropos of nothing.
You feel like you are right there with the Melendys, and you almost are one of them." I'm not sure if that satisfied him, but he didn't disagree.Anyway, we finished this one tonight, and he asked what the next one was called."Then There Were Five," I said."Oh, so another child joins the family?" he said.
(hide spoiler)]"And the last one's Spiderweb For Two. That's my favorite" "Oh," he said, "I guess in that one Father and Cuffy have a spider problem." (view spoiler)[This is not correct.
So, so refreshingly ordinary.And very much a city-kids-in-the-country story, which is delightful.I must add this quote: That night the children dreamed all night about Clarinda and the secret room. Mona and Randy and Rush, that is. Oliver dreamed he was driving a Greyhound bus full of policemen across the Brooklyn Bridge.I love Elizabeth Enright.
One of my old favorites.
There is nothing spectacular about it, no complicated plot, no difficult story line, and there is no
When Mona, Rush, Randy and Oliver move to the country, they don't expect to have the same adventures they enjoyed in Manhattan. Still, their lives soon change with the addition of a new and unexpected member.
Another absolutely charming and delightful Melendy book :-) I really love Elizabeth Enright's writing and how she makes everyday details so special.
Nice, but not as special as the first Melendy book.
Part of it may be that I personally find adventures in the city but interesting than pleasant living in the country, but I also think the narrative tone has shifted.
Also, I preferred the more discrete, start-to-finish episodic stories of the various outings in New York City over the way Enright here brought things up and then dropped them to come back to later.
But it was still a nice book, maybe more appealing to kids who haven't lived in the country themselves.

This story pulled me in right away. The Melendy family moved from the city to the country and the first part of the book was all about the discoveries in their new home. I loved it! I moved to a wonderful house on a farm five days before I turned 8 and Enright perfectly describes the magic of exploring the outdoors and the indoors of an old house in the country. Lovely, gentle book.
Another collection of sweet stories about the Melendy family. These aren't necessarily spectacular, but the writing is great and the characters and their adventures are wholesome and fun. The series works well for road trips with kids.
The oldest, Mona, begins to grow up a bit, and she, Rush and Randy (Miranda) are much interested in participating in the War Effort by buying stamps and bonds, and collecting scrap and paper.
Again, they "get up a show" to that end, and everyone loves it (of course).A wee bit too patriotic, but then it was published in wartime.
A wee bit self-conscious and (whisper it low) the ending might be called "precious." But an okay read for a weekend with a chest cold.
This quote, which I posted to Facebook, neatly sums up my love for this book and series. Still More Adventures. "The whole family loved Mrs Oliphant. She was kind, and funny, and original. She carried with her the memory of a long life starred with adventures, and you had the feeling that, old as she was, still more adventures lay ahead of her."The Four-Story Mistake by Elizabeth Enright#goals #IwanttobeherwhenIgrowup
The Melendy family moves from the city to a rambling old house in the country, where they have many more adventures.This series continues in the same charming vein. I may have enjoyed this book even more than the first. Recommended!
I adore this 2nd book in the Melendy Family series. Elizabeth Enright does such an outstanding job capturing/creating the personalities of each of the siblings and the adults in their lives. I enjoyed this book just as much now as an adult as I did as a child.
Moving to the country! Gonna get a house! Oh no houses are terrible.
by Elizabeth EnrightAsking me to choose a favorite book from this series would be like asking me to choose a favorite Melendy: it could be done, but it would be painful, and I'd really rather not have to. But I have to admit that The Four-story Mistake is definitely high on the list.  The Saturdays  is a wonderful introduction to the Melendys and Cuffy and Willy Sloper, but with the Melendys move from New York City to the country we begin the real business of the series. (Don't ask me what that
by Elizabeth EnrightAsking me to choose a favorite book from this series would be like asking me to choose a favorite Melendy: it could be done, but it would be painful, and I'd really rather not have to.
It just sounded like a nice phrase.)At the beginning of this book the Melendy children are saying goodbye to their home as they prepare to go with Cuffy (nurse, housekeeper and friend) to their new house.
I love the opening:"'Well, thank goodness there aren't gong to be any more children here anyway!' said Randy crossly.
My kids put this audiobook on during lunchtimes and car trips around town, and while I listened carefully to some parts, others got lost in the background of other things that caught my attention, like hemming my son's pants (which takes all of my brain power).
Usually I don't bother hemming my son's pants.
The descriptions of the landscape and the seasons drew me in, especially the description of the unfolding spring, although that might just be because Enright mentions spring peepers; I love spring peepers.Even though we're heading to the library this afternoon and could take it back, this audiobook isn't due for a couple of weeks, so we're going to hold onto it and listen through it again, I think.
Although this is much older than the Penderwicks books, it reminds me of them. It is bit too sweet, reminiscent of a different era, where children played outside without supervision, wrote plays and performed them at home, were nice to all of the members of their families, and were supported by everyone in the community. It makes me a bit nostalgic. But, perversely, I also long to see a little orneriness here and there, too. I guess it is a bit of orneriness in myself that can't help thinking, it can't always be that good, can it?
We read the first in this series (The Saturdays) as part of a book group, and I guess I enjoyed the characters so much that I wanted to read more about them. While I miss the NYC setting here, I felt like this was even more poetically crafted than The Saturdays. It was published in 1942, and I really enjoyed reminding myself (and occasionally being reminded by the story) of the World War II context. I assume these novels were hugely popular 70+ years ago, and I think they still hold up well.
12/2015 Yes, this is firmly in my favorites list, one I can listen to when I'm at the end of my rope. It just never gets stale.1/2013 Stellar narration of one of my favorite books. I'm so glad that the Enright books are so available, still. I love all the characters in this book, and I especially love Enright's ability to turn a phrase. Her firefly-spangled nights ring gloriously true. One feels just how cold the brook water is, when Rush plunges in. Highly recommended.
Hmm, slowly warming to the series. I keep picking up the next in the series, so I clearly haven't given up yet. LOL I like the bits about the war, seeing the home front without having to see someone go off to war. That's rare. Of all the characters, I wish we knew more about Father. I think I'd like him a lot. I picture him a bit as Christopher Plummer, from Sound of Music days. *g*
This series set in the 1940's captures so well the magic of childhood in the glorious days before the invention of the screen. In this book, the Melendy family moves to the idyllic countryside in a home that has an unfolding story of its own. Adventures abound for the four Melendy children with the influence of those clever twin sisters, Curiosity and Imagination.
One of Chloe's favorites. Second in the quartet. Great story of four city kids who move to the country with their father to live in an eccentric house called "The Four Story Mistake." The four siblings are just so well done that this story is a joy. Chloe has read this so many times!
Think of the things you enjoyed as a child, or the things you wished you could do. The Melendy children, among the four of them, probably did those things, or had those same wishes.
This book is a great book to read when you are sick or you just like adventures and happy endings.❤😊
This book is a great book to read when you are sick or you just like adventures and happy endings.❤️😊
The funny thing is, the first thought I had when I started listening to this (audiobook) was, "This sounds boring, is there going to be any exciting story line to it?" And then I just kept listening, and the story wound up taking me RIGHT back into my childhood, right back into that state of being a child that we lose in adulthood.
I have been so far from the state of presence I had as a child that I think I would have read it in my head all wrong.
I've not read the other Melendy series books; I may do so.
This has all the desirable elements of a kid's story--adventures to imagine yourself having, the discovery of a hidden room in a cool old house, huge independence to pursue what you like and when, lots of room to roam in the country with appealing descriptions of the environment, few conflicts with siblings or adults, the oldest girl wants to be an actress and actually achieves it, the younger girl cruises around all over the place and even finds a diamond, interjections of humorous sarcasm (usually in Rush's dialogue), creation and performance of a play achieved with success, and it snows on Christmas Eve. Idealistic, nostalgic and fun.
The character of Randy reminds me of Beverly Cleary's "Ramona" with her varied interests, activities, imagination and problems.
These children adapt to change and call for work and sacrifice very well.
They aren’t pictured as perfect, but the reader enthusiastically enjoys spending time with them.A move from their home at the outskirts of the city to a three-story (it was meant to be four-stories) older home in the country begins this tale.
They experience the four seasons more closely by getting out in nature and exploring the woods, brooks, and farm country surrounding them.
They also explore their home more closely than the adults, and discover a hidden room on the third floor, a room with history!
