https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/359410.Elsewhere
You know what sucks?When you get 53 (YES, FIFTY THREE) pages into a book and realize that you've read it before.
I mean, it's been a good 8 months, and I was still hazy about the plot throughout the whole book, but it's SUCH a good story that I didn't mind kinda knowing the plot.
And there will be other lives for unpaid debts, for one-night stands, for Prague and for Paris, for painful shoes with pointy toes, for indecisions and revisions."And none of that stuff made me weepy or sentimental when it happened to me, but you bet I'll be thinking like this when my daughter hits that age.
Fascinating, a well-imagined, well-written YA novel. A fifteen-year-old girl dies and finds herself in Elsewhere, where the deceased age backwards until they become babies and return to the Earth for their next lives. It's a quick read, but wow -- it made me appreciate my life, my family, and love. The potentially heavy subject matter is counterbalanced with some great humor. Highly recommended.
Having read and liked Zevin's "Memoirs of a Teenage Amnesiac," I expected "Elsewhere" to be a book of the same high quality.
Yes, the book has plenty of great ideas, but they are wrapped up in a very dull and childish plot with a lot of teenage whining.
I think if you take out references of sexuality from "Elsewhere" it will make a great read for 10-year olds (to spark that conversation about afterlife), but as a young adult novel it falls short.Reading challenge: #15.
Firstly I have to admit I read this because I needed an author whose name started with z for a challenge.
I was very happy that I read this book which is aimed at a Young Adult audience but is totally readable by any age.The story takes place in the afterlife, which is a place called Elsewhere.
As a reader you need to suspend belief at this stage because the whole theory behind this place is totally lacking in logic, particularly the bits about babies and talking dogs.
I liked the characters, the world building (just ignore the bits that obviously do not work) and the story.
Her jokes either fall flat or induce a lengthy groan, but are never really amusing.
And while Zevin can occasionally turn a phrase in an interesting way, for the most part her prose is awkward and downright clunky: "Although she tries to be very quiet, she loses her grip on the last drawer and it slams shut.
This has the unfortunate effect of waking the sleeping girl again." Man, I hate when a drawer slams shut because I lost my grip on it!
In the end,  Elsewhere  falls very flat.
The whole "relationship" (if you can even call it that) between Liz and Owen frustrated me. How could Owen's marriage have been so happy if after only two weeks of being reunited with his wife he didn't want her anymore? Argh!The story moves quickly from one event to the next without setting anything up or wrapping anything up. It is hard to care about the characters or events this way.
So the general idea is fun, but the actual story turned out to be pretty boring, weird, cheesy, and poorly written. Not that awesome. I REALLY LIKED THE EPILOGUE! :) But a paragraph does not redeem a whole book.
To me, ELSEWHERE is a combination of Mitch Albom's THE FIVE PEOPLE YOU MEET IN HEAVEN and Alice Sebold's THE LOVELY BONES, two other wonderful books dealing with death and the Afterlife.
Liz spends her first month on Elsewhere spending all of her time--and her grandmother's eternims, the currency used there--to watch her family, friends, and classmates back on Earth.
She gets closer to grandmother Betty, finally takes a job in the Division of Domestic Animals helping recently departed pets find new owners, and seems to be finding a place on Elsewhere.
What is the story?
Elsewhere is an idea spun into a book and then left floundering as the author seeks to fill pages.
There is no story here - no cohesive plot that moves the thing forward.
Lizzy is not a likeable character and comes across as a whiny brat that is so self involved.
Lizzy is the worst kind of Mary-sue, petulant and self-involved, the center of the world and all around amazing OMG wonderful gee I'll put up with her crap cause she's so awesome gal.
I can find nothing to recommend this book other than to say it was a cool idea to start with.
First read in March 2014Reread in July 2016Just as magical, if not more so, as the first time I read it. Probably a novel I will reread every few years or so.
ISBN: 0374320918Elsewhere by Gabriel Zevin Do you want to see the latest Picasso paintings? Well you just spring by his gallery and see his new paintings. Maybe you can say hey to Marilyn Monroe at her psychiatric center. Well if you want to do all that you’d take a cruise there. But of course there’s a catch to it all, and Liz Hall knows all about that because under her circumstances she can do all of that because she’s a fifteen-year-old girl and she’s dead. The curious adventurous Liz Hall is
But of course there’s a catch to it all, and Liz Hall knows all about that because under her circumstances she can do all of that because she’s a fifteen-year-old girl and she’s dead.
Liz hall is wanting and yearning to just go home and pretend that it’s jut a dream; that nothing actually happened, but instead of getting her drivers license at sixteen she’s going to get it at a younger age of fifteen, because in Elsewhere time goes backwards.
Gabrelle Zevin leaves you hanging wanting you to read more and more until you finish the book satisfied.
So, please bear with me.“A life is a good story, Liz realizes, even a crazy, backward life like hers.”Liz is only 15 when she dies (she's a hit and run victim).
For Liz, it's the worst because she will never go to college, get married, get big boob, live on her own, fall in love, get driver’s license, or anything.
The living (her family and friends) grieve her death while Liz grieves the life that has been taken from her.
It doesn’t work with me … a 28-year-old man (if I remember it correctly) fall in love with a 15-year-old girl.“People, you'll find, aren't usually all good or all bad.
Story of an alternate afterlife as experience from the point of view of a 16 year old girl. Although certain aspects of the story I could poke holes in for inconsistencies overall it was very good. It elicited emotion from me, in this case sadness, and if a book can do that the author is doing his/her job. As a parent it's probably different than a teen reading it.
This was a very whimsical, fascinating take on death and life - I loved the image of the tree: that life and death are like the roots and branches of a tree - neither can see the other, but they are both alive and connected.
I loved the message that life after death is still real life, and that things move on, you keep growing, working and building relationships.
The characters were great, especially the dogs - I laughed out loud at the things that they said - so perfect!
So aside from those things, and because it's a fictional, fun, "what if" scenario, I loved it.
It is at times heartbreaking and funny.
And then it switches to Lizzy, the main character of the book, a 15-year-old girl who has recently died after a bicycle accident.
In Elsewhere, a form of Heaven, where the dead age backwards and everything is perfect.
Of course, dying at 15 Lizzy missed everything, like turning 16.
*YAWN* Seriously, if I heard another character complaining about not finding their true love, I may have just fallen asleep mid-word.
There is a lot to like about this book though.
Mainly the supporting characters, especially the animals and Lizzy's grandmother, Betty.
In Elsewhere, Liz meets up with the grandmother she never knew and struggles with the fact that she won’t be turning 16, getting her driver’s license, or going to college.
Liz nearly drives herself crazy watching her family’s grief.But she eventually finds her avocation counseling dogs who have just arrived to Elsewhere and starts to make friends.
But death it seems, is just as complicated as life.
Does she want to go back?Beautifully written and an ingenous look at the after life, Zevin manages to address the subject at hand in a serious manner without getting too heavy or melodramatic, but also not getting too light and fluffy.
I thought the characters weren't developed enough and felt very flat to me.
In all, I did find it gripping enough to read all the way through (in one day no less) and I did find some interesting nuances about it.
Unfortunately (and this is probably because of the age range that the book targeted), I found more annoyances than gems.That said, for a children's book, this would be an excellent read.
Some of the sub plots and developments in the book itself outside of the characters would make for a very gripping read for years 4th grade - 9th grade (depending on the maturity level of the child; there is some mild cussing).
1000/5 STARSI always get so surprised when I see the low ratings of Elsewhere on Goodreads, because this one of my favorite books of ALL TIME.
The synopsis on both Goodreads AND the back of the book itself just doesn't do it justice.
It's so moving and bittersweet and wonderful - I sob through the whole book each time I reread.
The story is beautifully told and TRULY makes you think.
Each time I finish this book I think about it for the next couple of days, at least.
It's wonderful.RECAP: A GORGEOUS, BITTERSWEET, MOVING, ULTIMATELY HOPEFUL STORY ABOUT GRIEF, LOVE, AND MOVING ON.
“Sorry, but nothing of much importance ever happened to me…I'm just a girl who forgot to look both ways before she crossed the street.” When Liz is killed in a hit-and-run accident her 'life' takes a very unexpected turn.
At nearly sixteen she knows she will never get married, never have children, and perhaps never fall in love.
but in Elsewhere all things carry on almost as they did on Earth except that the inhabitants get younger, new relationships are formed and old ones, which had been sadly interrupted, are renewed.'This book filled me with a sadness I’d never known before.
It’s written beautifully however i felt it was a ‘The Lovely Bones’ for a younger audience.
This was AMAZING! It really made me think about life and the afterlife and what it could be like and what happens. It a great book and an exceptionally easy read. I flew through this book no problem. I recommend this book to anyone and everyone! :)Happy reading to all my booklover friends. :)
In a way, there is something about Zevin's view of the afterlife reminds me of the Florida vacations from my childhood: a leisurely drive through one sunny, pleasant day after another.
If that was all there was to it, I probably wouldn't recommend this book so highly, but Zevin's story of a girl's growth after her own mortal life ends is anything but simple.
The opening of the book, for example, told from the perspective of Lizzie's pug Lucy was almost too much, and dampened my enthusiasm a bit going in---but do read on, because this journey is definitely a trip worth taking.
calm and thoughtfulfunny, unpredictable, stand-out original*be happy now -- don't wait until you're grown-up, or done with college, or the kids move out*know who you are*think, think, think*look both ways before crossing the streeti can see why reader-teens rave about this one, because it asks awesome, deep questions about life in a thoroughly roundabout waythat's a snowglobe on the cover, not a crystal ball, by the way.
i didn't pick this up for awhile because somehow i thought there were seances involved.
PG for a teeny bit of language, and for you know, DEATH, being a major theme.
the thought doesn't go any further than that, though.
A re-read for me, just as good as the countless times before. Will always be on of my faves.
But instead of using these themes in a cliche sort of story, Gabrielle Zevin looks on the issues in a new light, and goes places other authors would have never thought of going.
However, Gabrielle Zevin sheds new light on death, she makes you look at death as a peaceful thing, not sad.
I really liked how the author connected the theme of death, and afterlife with teenage problems because it was relatable.
These are just a couple of the ways that Gabrielle Zevin took common issues and themes, and made them more interesting and relatable, and less cliched.
This book gets bonus points for creativity and originality.
It is a place everyone goes when they die.
Enter her love interest who is 20 years older than her, but in Elsewhere they are only a few a part, since he has been there longer.
This was espeically hard for me to read because I lost my brother, who was 16 just shy of 2 years ago.
It's hard for me not to throw this book down because I personally believe in Heaven- and Hell, not Elsewhere and not Re-incarnation.
But the five stars are restored because I just felt it was such a precious story.It moves slowly at first.
But after you get to know who she, Liz Hall, is and where she is you start to feel more for the whole tale.
Poor Liz Hall killed in a hit and run when she was almost 16 years old.
Yes, our pets are there.There are many sweet moments throughout the book.
I liked having the story to fall into as I chose.
I think I might like to get the Kindle version to read it again someday.
First, I was completely and totally infuriated by this book because rotting away on my computer is a story I started about a guy who dies and ends up in a heaven that looks a lot like earth, and he discovers that God basically has no control over anything (He feels really bad about it, but just sort of wishes everyone would leave him alone).
I guess this is a lesson on that made-up word that I hate--stictoitiveness.Oh yes, I'm supposed to be telling what I actually thought of the book.
There's just a certain amount of titillation to keep YA readers reading, and yes, I did tear up a couple times.
She meets a girl who had been shot in the head and a famous musician who had died of a drug overdose.
In Elsewhere, Liz learns, everyone ages backwards from the day they died to the day they turn zero, and then they are sent back to Earth to be relive as a baby.Liz misses her life on Earth, and becomes obsessed with watching her family and friends through Observation Decks.
She is very depressed, and sees no reason to do anything since she is dead, but in time she makes new friends in Elsewhere who help her come believe with the fact that she has died.I would highly recommend this book for those who like fantasy books.♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥
This book was God awful.
The characters are one-dimensional stereotypes (15 year-old main character Liz is an angst-ridden, moody, whiner who has a habit of saying "Um" and "I guess"), the dialogue is bland at best and completely unrealistic (NO ONE TALKS LIKE THIS!) and although the book is sprinkled here and there with a few interesting ideas about the possibilities of the afterlife (aging backwards until you are a baby ready to reborn, for example, and hanging out with your favorite rockstar) most are so farfetched, ridiculous, and just plain dumb.
This is an inventive book. Essentially it's a look at the afterlife, through the eyes of young girl who dies and then has to come to terms with that in Elsewhere, which is a clever combination of a Christian heaven and reincarnation. This is the book that I think a lot of people were hoping The Lovely Bones would be, but Zevin's writing is far better and her world flawless.
