https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18310320-binary
This book was obviously well researched just like all of Crichton's books.
I always find that thrilling, especially when it's about something dangerous, like explosives and nerve gas in this title.
The low stars are not for that, nor are they due to the pacing.
This was a perfect title for Hard Case Crime, thrilling and told at breakneck speed.
The low stars are for lack of depth.Crichton isn't known for creating characters.
It's the situation of his tales that really grab the reader.
Often that's enough to make me overlook the lack of characterization, but here it simply wasn't.

Not a bad book, fairly loose plot, page turner but nothing in depth to really engage the brain.
Written in 1972 so to read it now has some unintentional funny moments - like when they are trying to discuss the easiest and quickest way to send information.
email anyone?The book is all about a fast paced plot, leaving out any deep descriptions of people or places, if to compare it is a little like reading an Alistair Maclean.
The plot is set early after a couple of initial major thefts.
Still a decent read to pass the time without really having to concentrate hard.
Το 2013 είχα διαβάσει ένα άλλο βιβλίο του που έγραψε ως Τζον Λαντζ, το μοναδικό του μάλλον που κυκλοφόρησε στα ελληνικά, με τον τίτλο "Πλωτό φέρετρο" (Grave Descent στο πρωτότυπο), ένα πολύ καλό περιπετειώδες θρίλερ αλά Τζέιμς Μποντ.Πως έχει η ιστορία: Ένας πολιτικά ριζοσπαστικός και ακραίος τύπος, ονόματι John Wright, ετοιμάζει μια πράξη μαζικής καταστροφής, που αναμένεται να πλήξει την πόλη του Σαν Ντιέγκο, όπου γίνεται η συνεδρίαση του κόμματος των Ρεπουμπλικάνων, με παρουσία του ίδιου του προέδρου των ΗΠΑ.
So, pretty much exactly what you want when you pick up a pulp novel to read over the summer break.
It was cool getting to read a Michael Crichton book from before he was THE Michael Crichton.
Something that did surprise me about this book that sets it apart from most other pulp novels: absolutely no sex.
The book fails the Bechdel test miserably - not only do two women characters not talk to each other about something other than a man, but two women characters don't appear at all.
Reading this book is like getting on a rickety old roller coaster at a traveling carnival.
Grade: B- ...John Lange (an early psuedonym used by Michael Crichton)wrties a rather ho-hum novel in Binary. The most interesting thing is reading this book as a time capsule of cutting edge computer technology circa 1972.
A fast-paced thriller that barrels right on from the start without any extra stuff. I don't usually like novels that could easily be made into movies, I prefer more depth and development, but Crichton keeps you on the edge of your seat wanting to see what will happen next, how the detective will solve the puzzle.
A straightforward thriller with a little touch of Crichton-esque techy complication thrown in.
Not much in the way of characters, which seems typical for Crichton.
None of the characters in the story are women; there are only a couple small references to the sexual conquests of one of the men.)Even though this was written in the early '70s, it has some interesting connections to today.
John Graves, the hero, has reluctantly switched from foreign to domestic intelligence and has reservations about spying on U.S. citizens.
After viewing the table of contents for a dossier on his current surveillance target:Graves stared at the categories with some distaste.
Crichton would later use it as the basis for his directorial debut, a 1972 TV movie called PURSUIT.
He was also way ahead of his time, even from the very beginning of his career, and BINARY's themes of terrorism, chemical warfare, political instability, and an American government distrustful of its own people seem ripped out of today's headlines.
Despite a rather unpromising beginning, BINARY's last couple of chapters generate a surprising amount of tension, and, at only a couple hundred pages (most of which is dialog), the book never really gives you a chance to become bored with it.
That seems contradictory, maybe oxymoronic, but Pulp Crichton is actually exactly what you think it might be.
Crichton has to give it a chemisty spin and the 'this could actually happen any day now' hysteria at the beginning and end of the book is a nice pulp touch.If he had written this in the 90s, he probably would have fleshed this out to a 600-page monster and its film would have been a mega hit.
Since Crichton's career wasn't quite there yet, it's a quick and dirty story of a cat and mouse between a flawed cop and a genius criminal mastermind.Nothing here life-changing, but for a quick cheap (99 cent ebook) read, it is quite a fine time killer
You see that naked woman on the cover? What the bloody f$%^ is that about? There is one hooker being interviewed, for a grand total of maybe a quarter of a page, and she provides no useful info whatsoever.It's not terrible, but if it wasn't quite so cringe- and facepalm-inducing, it would have fared much, much better.(if you know that a super-smart dude has acquired a considerable quantity of [deadly stuff] and a variety of [unusual supplies], of *course* the rational approach is to not pick him up immediately but to play mind-games with him)
reads like a wake-up call
This could of been a good thriller if the author (John Lange aka Michael Crichton) had not made his main characters so dense, gullible and down right stupid. These "heroes" are supposed to be highly trained intelligence officers but, throughout the book, they can't figure out the simplest clues that are staring them in the face.
In the scheme of things, "Binary" was Michael Crichton's 11th book (8th under the Lange pen-name) and yet it has the feel of being much less developed, not just in plot and characterization, but in execution as well.
This book was an exciting read and kept my attention the whole time. It wasn't as good as some of Crichton's others but I still enjoyed it.
A fast paced techno thriller that is best of its kind.
Wright hired a bunch of crooks to steal both parts of the nerve gas (because shipping them together seems like SUCH a good idea) and thus begins a bizarre, convoluted plan to release the gas and wipe out most of San Diego--including President Nixon and the entire leadership of the Republican party.
But, in reality, it's more like cat is too dumb (though he supposedly has a great IQ) to stop mouse from building elaborate death machine until it's too late.Unlike the previous Lange/Crichton novels I've read from Hard Case Crime, there are no female characters to speak of.
It's real edge-of-your-seat stuff though the clues are almost painstakingly slow to come together at times because the reader knows more or less the nature of the attack and Graves does not.Still, even in his early days, it's evident Crichton can put together a page turner and it's interesting to read some early computer-related stuff like how long it took to send a few pages of information by a telephone wire to be printed on the other side of the country and how data would be hacked and stolen.
Unfortunately Wright has anticipated this and very much relies on Graves playing a vital part in a gigantic mass murder operation.Michael Crichton, master of the techno thriller, wrote a bunch of pulp novels in the early 70's under the pen name of John Lange.
Crichton does not rely on big action set pieces but keeps the story an investigational, with Graves slowly figuring out the puzzle pieces, but not being able to put the entire picture together.At about 220 pages it's a fast read (the Hard Crime paperback edition includes the first chapter of another Crichton pulp novel to fill the pages) and while it may not be fine literature, it's energetic, well-written and suspenseful.
Pretty decent read. Graves is a smooth, clever, likeable character. Pinned against Wright, Graves has met his match. The story was entertaining and moved concisely. I only wish the ending wasn't so predictable. It all seemed too easy, I saw the twist coming a mile away. Good,easy read though. I'm still trying to figure out why there is a naked girl on the cover...
Exciting finish. Deranged but brilliant villain. The ending investigation and recommendations were not implemented showing the massive waste of resources used to achieve nothing. Isn't government grand.
You can see the young Michael Crichton teeing up here to what became his usual plot structure and set of characters, but Binary doesn't generate half as much interest or suspense as his better-known books.
There isn't much to say. This was a straightforward read with a level of complexity equivalent to the title: binary. Was it easy to follow? Yes. Was it engaging? No. Was it well written? Yes. Would I read it again? No.
Non mi ha entusiasmato ma se tengo conto che è un'opera prima pubblicata postuma e che gli argomenti trattati (dovrei dire accennati) precorrevano i tempi, l'Autore ha con questo romanzo gettato le basi per i successivi splendidi scritti.
I am a world-class Michael Crichton fan but this is only the second novel I've read from his med school years…back when he wrote under one of three pseudonyms. These books read more like Clive Cussler’s action adventures than a typical Crichton techno-thriller. Still, no complaints – a fun read.
A great beginning of a long and productive life! Well crafted story. Kept my attention throughout the book. As a fan of Critchner, I was pleased to see his early works published.
I finished the book in just two days which means how captivating is the storyline and the pace. Michael has written the book very well. I wonder if somebody has made up a script over this novel and went for a movie. It's worth translating into a motion picture.
not great, but quick and easy enough. can pretty well see Crichton's research spilling out in front of you. interesting that we had virtually zero interest or background to any of the characters, it was all just pure action and plot. im never going to read it again but i dont regret that i did.
Something of a page-turner, this cat and mouse game between criminal mastermind and government agent plays out well even though some of the clues are so clearly signposted a blind man on a galloping horse could spot them.
A sciency thriller. Very good, a bit of a modern Agatha Christie almost. Unsure of why there's a naked woman on the cover of the book.
