https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1404710.Mrs_Tim_Christie
I would love to read the rest of the Mrs. Tim series, waiting for the Kindle version.
E. Stevenson around two years ago and fell in love with her stories, so I decided on Mrs. Tim, which even though there is humor in her other books, it mostly romance that drives the story forward but Mrs. Tim was humor in life and quite abundant.
I noticed a quality of looking at life akin to Elizabeth von Arnim's Elizabeth series, which I loved.
Arnim had her Goethe and Stevenson had her Austin.
Mrs. Tim writes in her diary from the period of January to June detailing the daily life she lives paying particular attention to the eccentric characters surrounding her and the humorous events that can happen in simple village life.
Then Mrs. Tim's life is unsettled as the Captain is transferred to a posting in Scotland to work away from the Regiment and Mrs. Tim finds herself living within a civilian community in a new country where she must start all over again (as is the way in army life) meeting new people and learning new ways.Comments: This book is a treasure!
Back when I was in High School I read a ton of D.E. Stevenson's books, but I don't remember reading this one, although I know it was in our library.Anyway, if you like gentle reads with not much going on set in an England that is/was like none of my midwestern American life you might enjoy these. It is comparable to the Miss Read books. Or for a more contemporary author, Jan Karon. The perfect read with a cup of tea and scones.
I've read a few negative reviews of this book which claim that 'nothing happens' - but for me that's almost part of the appeal as it makes you focus entirely on Stevenson's writing.It reminded me slightly of Denis Mackail's Greenery Street; another book set in a similar area which simply covers the day-to-day life of married couple without much in the way of a plot - again, it's all about the writing.Mrs Tim, as you've no doubt read, is an edited version of the diary written by Stevenson herself documenting her life as a military wife in the interwar years.
Re-read March, 2017 Mrs. Tim had to be part of my road trip of books in preparation for my upcoming UK trip.
Now if they would just reprint the rest of the Mrs. Tim books I would be a happy, happy camper.
Am irresistibly reminded of Mrs. Palmer's fulminations on the egregious Willoughby, but realise that Grace is too upset to see the humour of it so content myself with making soothing noises." Or just her everyday thoughts on life:"Am wildly excited all day at the prospect of Tim's return as I have not seen him for a whole week.
It was also published under the title "Mrs. Tim Christie." It was written in 1936 yet the situations that the main character, Hester (Mrs. Christie) experiences are timeless and universal...and hilarious at times!
I laughed out loud in the first page of the book and fell in love with the writing style and good-natured outlook of the heroine (and the author).
:)This series would be perfect for a nice vacation--easy to read, well-written and characters you want to learn more about...thank goodness this is a series.
AND DE Stevenson has written a lot of books--I can't imagine not liking any of her books...so excited to have another author to read through...:)
While the Provincial Lady's biting wit can be extremely funny, Mrs. Tim seems to have more of a cheerfully humorous outlook on life and people in general, and to be rather a better housekeeper and more affectionate with her husband and children.
Had to roll my eyes a bit over Hester's own cluelessness about Major Morley (since up to this point she hasn't given the impression of a particularly dense or unobservant person); but the supporting characters are amusing, the setting lovely, and the book in general just light enough to be relaxing reading without being absolute fluff.
Taken from her diary as an army wife, spruced up for publication of course.
4. This book was not a picture of what it would be like to be an army wife during a war.
She doesn't speak of the first war (Stevenson was an army wife during both wars though the second hadn't begun yet).
The adventures and the characters are amusing and the scenery is indeed lovely and personal leave in the Scottish Highlands with maids and cooks and nursemaids sounds an absolute delight but one does wonder if Mr. Tim would have been all pleased with the attentions paid his dear little wife.
That's out of the Bible, of course, so I've no doubt it is very good advice, but if we all did that, and went about saying "yea yea and nay nay" we should look rather silly, and there would not be any conversation at all.""Mrs. Tim of the Regiment", according to the background note, was based on Stevenson's own diary that she kept while married to a young Army officer.
I believe this is an alternate title for Mrs Tim of the Regiment.Stevenson's second "novel" is essentially her diary with the names changed. Not as polished as her later work (unsurprising since she wasn't allowed to get an education or write while growing up) it is still quite insightful, warm, and humorous.
The Kindle format sometimes misses punctuation, which can be distracting, but to a tolerable degree.This book is technically two books put together, but I understand that they have pretty much always been published together, and there is nothing to indicate where one stops and the other begins.Hester Christie is the wife of a military man, which means that her life can change at any moment if her husband is assigned to a new area.
Then her husband is moved to a post in Scotland, so they make the move and attempt to fit in to their new surroundings and find people that they can befriend.The second half of the book was rather nicer to read, as Hester and her daughter get to take a two-week vacation in the highlands of Scotland with a new friend.
So, this book (adapted from the diary of a regimental wife) written in 1934 sounded like something I would just revel in.
But, even for my modest expectations, NOTHING happened.
But friends of the author encouraged her to adapt her personal journal into a book, and if I were her editor I think I would have encouraged a bit more "adapting." But, it apparently was immensely popular in its day and is enjoying a renaissance of interest since its publication by The Bloomsbury Group.
And, even though I didn't particularly enjoy it, I applaud the Group for resurrecting books like this.
I was expecting something a bit sappy, but instead Mrs Tim of the Regiment turned out to be a perfectly delightful look at the peripetic life of a military wife.
Hester Christie, despite her prim name, is a fun-loving and strong-minded young woman with some wonderful friends.
She makes her everyday life sound great fun and turns a two-week vacation into a series of adventures.
I can't wait to start the sequel, Golden Days:.
Unlike Mrs Tim of the Regiment, which I read in the Kindle format, Golden Days is available on Audible.com.
I had never heard of D.E. Stevenson before randomly finding this book on Amazon as one of those "customers who bought that also bought this" selections. I am a little smitten by this book. So fun. It's not exciting but it is charming. It is full of domestic squabbles and concerns, quirky friendships, interesting characters and witty conversation and observations that bring Jane Austen's humor to mind. I only wish that the other "Mrs Tim" books had also been reprinted so that I could have a little more Hester to enjoy!
This book started out on a high note and I was enjoying myself quite a lot.
But then they went to Scotland and it dragged and dragged.I think, because this book is based on her actual diary, that a good edit was in order for the second half.
Because they were on holiday and her husband was posted away, there wasn't all that much going on and she wasn't even preoccupied with running her own household, so there were not as many of the amusing little episodes that sustained the first half.Still, perfectly charming and an amusing insight to life at a different time.
I love most of D. E. Stevenson's work & especially the books about Mrs. Tim. Hester is a dear, & the other characters always interesting. The books bubble with engaging friends & foes, gentle humor & action agreeably sprinkled with food, clothes & housekeeping details that only improve the pleasure for the reader. Who can resist imagining their life with afternoon tea & a devoted helper in the house? Not me!
I quite liked the diary format and engaging heroine to start out, thinking it rather like Diary of a Provincial Lady in charm and humor, but with its own vivid characters and setting. However, the end rather fell off: the heroine becomes far too Mary-Sue-ish (with multiple men madly in love with her) and the tone more schmaltzy and less witty. I did generally enjoy it, though.
I was so delighted to see that the Bloomsbury Group was reprinting this title by one of my favorite British authors. This series of books about Mrs. Tim is different from Stevenson's usual novels, in that the books are in the form of a diary. There are four books in the series, and I have ordered used copies of the other three. They give such a wonderful portrait of England during World War II...just what it was like for ordinary people. Loved it!Marta Perry
(4.5) I loved this and giggled at  least once each page for the first half of the book. It was delightful because it was so ordinary-- just the day to day happenings of Hester Christie told with sharp insight into her fellow characters.
Mrs. Tim is the most popular wife in the regiment, and her lively diary entries describing daily events, misadventures, and surviving on a budget make several fun volumes.
Read all the D. E. Stevenson books years ago. Suggested by Goodreads because I read Green Dolphin Street.
Yay! I love stuff my Mom recommends, it is so sweet.
Really love the overall comforting feel, the sometimes really funny observations on how different different people in different circles of life perceive the world.I didnt appreciate the true comfort of this book actually until I returned it to the library (because I had 1 week left and I would forget as I was going on holiday the next week and blah blah so I returned it before finishing halfway and also because I had the ebook).
An ersatz Provincial Lady but without Delafield's wit and self-deprecating humour. Stevenson deftly reveals to the reader but not to the narrator how astonishingly dense Hester is about the effect she herself has on people, just as Tim is deluded about his own perceived superiority. The novel is entertaining but with little development in the characters who are essentially nice people living ordinary upper middle class lives on the edge of their income. Not quite the laugh out loud comedy I had expected but a competent light-hearted read.
I love the Mrs. Tim books. I have read them many times. I re-read it this time because a group I belong to was discussing it. However, a few of the members were attacking Hester--how could that possibly be? It ruined the discussion for me, and I am trying not to let it tarnish these gems, the Mrs. Tim books. There were also unkind things said about Tony, whom I adore and toward whom I sympathize a great deal.I warmly recommend the Mrs. Tim and Barbara Buncle books by D.E. Stevenson.
Still a fan of D. E. Stevenson, but I'm glad I read this series out of order. If I had started here I might not have read the others. Compared to later Mrs. Tim books, Tim was wholly unlikeable and her friendship with Tony was pretty uncomfortable. I also skimmed a lot of Mrs. Falconer's conversation which I found tedious instead of funny. Still worth reading, though, and I'm looking forward to the last one.
I went for something entirely different with this one. It was a pleasant read and fascinating to be essentially reading the diary of the life of a military wife and mother just before the war. Gosh how times have changed and not entirely for the better! Lovely book, well written and thoroughly interesting for the characters and era-specific interactions. Fun, what!
It provides an interesting look at life in Scotland at the time.Some places were way overdone with adjectives by the dozen that added nothing to the story. A large portion has Hester gadding about with the Major which seemed inappropriate to married Hester.
Delightful. Charming. Fun. Laugh-out-loud at times. Wish the succeeding three books were also out again, but I will scour used book stores for them. It's just nice once in awhile to enjoy a book without heavy drama.ALSO CALLED: MRS TIM OF THE REGIMENT
Quite a fun read, written as a diary of a military wife prior to World War II and is based on the author's own life. Want to re-read the rest of the series but am waiting for the second book which I have had to request through Interlibrary loan. Free e-book from the library.
