https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/668714.The_Goblin_Reservation
Coming back to our good old planet, it was populated by all kings of supernatural creatures with humanity providing them sanctuaries (thus the title) with Maxwell happened to be the specialist in the supernatural - of the Earth origin.
So this science fiction book has goblins, trolls, banshees, fairy folks, ghosts, and other such creatures.
I had trouble deciding whether to qualify this book as science fiction or fantasy.
I mentioned the problems just above: somewhat weak characterization and very occasional slow parts; these are the reason for 4 stars as opposed to a perfect rating.
A madcap adventure set in a vibrant university setting, it echoed the feel of Doorways in the Sand.
It gets progressively odder from there as Bill attempts to discover why he was doubled, to find a job and to convince the University that they should buy the alien knowledge.
Oh, and help out his friend Goblin O'Toole with his troll problem and some excess October ale.
However, the campus is in an uproar over the upcoming time-traveling visit by William Shakespeare, so Maxwell has a challenge trying to get official attention.Nominated for a Hugo in 1969, it is a quick, fun read that remains close to timeless.
I remember loving Way Station, but not quite making the connection between that classic SF title and this.
What did you expect?This was a fun and light and wild ride of a novel, full of humor and joy and even when the topic is dark, our faithful narrator is always pretty damn level-headed and reasonable.
:)I had a very good time and this is the third Simak novel that I've read.
Way Station was a gorgeous exploration of ancient alien tech that allows us to explore the universe...

Срещите ми със Саймък всъщност са сравнително малко, но наистина не се колебая особено силно вече, когато името ми попадне пред погледа. Той за мен си е същински вълшебник.http://knigoqdec.blogspot.bg/2017/08/...
Add to the above cast of characters a plot involving: (a) the discovery by the main character (while off in searach of a dragon) of an amazing "crystal planet" that contains a secret library of information gathered over "billions" of years; (b) an offer by the aliens that own the "library" to sell for the right price; and (c) a race between the main character and his best friends (the neanderthal, the ghost and a goblin) to acquire the library for Earth before an evil alien race beats them to it.
It is a different king of Clifford Simak book, best known for his "pastoral" science fiction novels like Way Station and City, but the characters in it still had the "feel" of classic Simak characters.
Simply a classic, and probably the best book that Clifford Simak ever wrote.
It's short (particularly compared to modern novels), but fun, funny, and deeply enjoyable.
Not only is this a classic of fantasy and science fiction, but I consider it to be one of the funnier books in both genres as well!I can imagine that some might find the relatively second-class status of the heroine offensive, although I would argue that Simak is not being sexist.Charm, and ordinary human emotion; unlike many other genre writers of his day, Simak handled both well.
I've often regretted that The Goblin Reservation wasn't longer (and that Simak never wrote a sequel - what a fascinating setting he created here!
But at least we have this light but deeply enjoyable novel to read and re-read.
Саймак настоящий мастер scifi. Безудержная фантазия, не ограниченная каким-то рамками. Мягкий юмор, без характерного для американских авторов ухода "ниже пояса". И при этом, хотя ситуации совершенно фантастичны, не возникает отторжения "так не может быть". Возможно, за счет того, что нет явных глупостей с физикой происходящего, и за счет органично вписанных в ситуацию персонажей.
After having read a half dozen, mostly early Simak scifi novels and a handful of his short stories, I had the impression of an enjoyable 'laid back Bradburyesque country' style to his work.
and even Shakespeare himself, all part of this tale, were exactly what they were meant to be: Not to be taken seriously, but simply to be fun characters in a light whimsical little story set on Earth in the far future, it having become a sort of intergalactic learning institution.
Единствената пародийност, която аз откривам вътре е сарказмът към чиновническите душици на университетските преподаватели.Питър Максуел е учен към Факултета за свръхестествени изследвания на университета в който се е превърнала цялата планета.
Почти без да иска Питър е замесен във всичко, заеднос приятелите си Дух (който е дух) и Ап (който е неандерталец), както и с един симпатичен саблезъб тигър.
Докато разбере какво става и как да докаже правно, че не е умрял, ще успее да изгълта тонове бира и уиски, да потроши кръчма, музей и луксозно имение, да се скара с декана на университета, колежката си, тумба журналисти и едно банши, да се запознае с живи и умрели драматурзи, пътуващи във времето художници, кошерни разуми и един дракон.
Зората на 90-те, лятна ваканция на село, при баба и дядо, които упорито настояваха, че от 2 до 4 часа е време за почивка и човек трябва да се крие от горещините. И макар, че днес давам мило и драго за една следобедна дрямка, тогава това съвсем не беше така. И какво да направя, когато колелото е паркирано под асмата, а аз съм осъден да прекарам цели два протяжни часа на сянка? Ровех в библиотечката и си търсех нещо интересно за четене. Така попаднах на „Резерватът на таласъмите” на някой си Клифърд Саймък. Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле": https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...

This doesn't imply that it is simple or devoid of ideas, it refers to the easy ability for anyone to pick up the book and enjoy it from beginning to end.
Simak has a knack for writing easy reads.The Goblin Reservation is a little divergence from some of Simak's more traditional science fiction work and it's a charming diversion.Within this book you'll find cavemen, goblins, trolls, aliens, time travel and more.
It's a refreshing view that makes one realize "heroism" doesn't require special powers or trauma.This is a friendly book, one which will be enjoyed for its ideas and imagination.
'Himself again- Having just returned to Earth from an inter-galactic research mission, Professor Peter Maxwell, specialist in Supernatural Phenomena, finds himself in dire straits.Earth, as he is aware, is well-advanced in many areas; perfected time travel, for instance, enables all creatures (goblins, dinosaurs and Shakespeare!) to coexist.
Ancient beyond comprehension, this planet is a storehouse of information that would be invaluable to the people of Earth- even an Earth so far advanced that perfected time travel allows goblins, dinosaurs, ghosts, even Shakespeare to coexist.
In 192 pages this novel has aliens, goblins, teleportation, warlocks, trolls, time travel, fairies, space ghosts, a dragon, an educated neanderthal and a 'bio-mech' saber tooth tiger named Sylvester (ha?).
Загадки, извънземни и таласъми за разкош(Цялото ревю е тук: https://knijenpetar.wordpress.com/201...)С удоволствие се върнах към една книга, която съм чел като хлапе.
Новото издание на „Резерватът на таласъмите“ („Бард“, 2017, с превод на Живка Рудинска) ми дойде като истински подарък от прекрасните времена, когато тършувах из читалищните библиотеки за фантастични истории и ги поглъщах с нетърпението на малък изследовател на необикновеното.
Така се зарадвах и на „Всичко живо е трева“ (https://knijenpetar.wordpress.com/201...), друга емблематична творба на Саймък.
Макар „Резерватът на таласъмите“ да не е чиста фантастика, и в нея се вижда всичко онова, което продължава да вдъхновява човечеството по пътя към неизвестното бъдеще.
Странни извънземни, времеви портали, необикновени изобретения…(Продължава в блога: https://knijenpetar.wordpress.com/201...)
This is a book rather typical of the times it was written - late 60s - sci-fi "with a twist"; in this case, the twist is that an Earth a few hundred years forward - in many ways recognisably "our" Earth (sans digital revolution of course : no-one ever predicted that!) - is entirely a University, used by a Galactic confederation which itself is simply a background to the story.The story centres on Peter Maxwell (see, even the names are familiar), a Professor whose 'transportation pattern' is mysteriously duplicated, and he arrives back from a trip away to find his duplicate had arrived back earlier and mysteriously died.
It works better than it has any right to, and several of the seemingly disparate elements (which seem drawn willy-nilly from different fields of sf or fantasy) turn out to be related in the end.
One key plot point (revealed immediately, so no spoiling) is the illicit duplication of interstellar teleportees without their knowledge, which was later developed on a vast scale in the webcomic Schlock Mercenary - which I haven't read for a few years.(view spoiler)[The ending involves freeing a dragon trapped in stone, which seems to have become a trope nowadays - I keep finding stone dragons.
Непогана фентезюха, хоч від неї так і віє фантастикою 20 століття) Усі ці химерні інститути: Конні Віліс, дежавю. Сам сюжет побудовано гарно, багато нестандартних (на той час) персонажів. Напевно, зі мною щось не так, бо в мене книжка зупинилася на оцінці "норм". Гумор, як і у випадку з "Ґалапаґосом", не пробрав. Це ніби ти знаєш, де має бути смішно, і навіть розумієш, чому, але сміху вичавити з себе не можеш. Ці мені американці...
A perfect mix of fantasy, murder mystery, and the hard sci fi Simak is famous for. It's probably one of the best sci fi books ever written. In the future, the entire planet Earth is the university of the galaxy, with a College of Supernatural Phenomenon, as well as, a College of Time travel. Shakespear drinks moonshine with a neanderthal, and there are goblins, trolls, banshees... and world's coolest ending.
Some people will go a long way to check out a library. Goblins, leprechauns, trolls, saber-toothed tigers, Neanderthal man, a dragon and a ghost, coupled with intergalactic intrigue, an alien race with wheels, and a long unused library, make for a magical and oddly compelling mix.
კიდევ ერთი "ნეტავ ბავშვობაში წამეკითხა, ხომ უფრო მომეწონებოდა" წიგნი.კარგი იუმორის, ლუდის და ბატონი ო'ტულის ხათრით - 4.
I had enjoyed Simak's Time is the Simplest Thing, enough so that I had been eager to read something else by him.
Though the Goblin Reservation features Simak's beloved Wisconsin, there is little else this shares in common with those other two.
It differs from the pulp science fiction of Edgar Rice Burroughs, E.E. Doc Smith, and their literary descendants.
The Goblin Reservation is of a different lineage where a coterie go out boisterously enjoying themselves and one another and fall into a bit of adventure along the way.
There are no walking skeletons, giant grasshoppers, or donut-shaped spacecraft in the book.
This novel is difficult to situate within the categories of today's science fiction and within Simak's oeuvre.
The whole story revolves around a man commissioned to broker a deal for the purchase of a repository of knowledge from the previous universe, prior to our Big Bang, and from our own universe's long history up to now.
This is more a long novella than a novel, by today's standards.
It is a fast and enjoyable read, although perhaps a bit lacking in the intellectual depth we expect from Simak.
This ended up being an entertaining book, but I had my doubts at the start. It took almost the first half of the book to set up the plot and I struggled through that half. But, the last half was engaging and enjoyable. I look forward to reading more by this author.
Originally published on my blog here in August 2001.Simak is best remembered today for serious science fiction like Way Station, but he wrote several more whimsical novels, of which this is one.
Well treated, he is eventually returned to earth, only to find that he is believed dead; a second version of himself came back safe from his trip and then was killed in an accident.The tone of the novel is something like Robert Heinlein's earlier stories, The Rolling Stones or the short story We Also Walk Dogs.
Peter Maxwell is being questioned by a government official because of an unexplained deviation in his extraterrestrial journey (via long-range teleport).
All the while we steadily get clues as to what happened on Maxwell's journey and why.
In case that description doesn't spell it out, this is a genre-bending sci-fi-fantasy-mystery, pulp fiction at its finest.Quite a fun read so far.
The book reads like a 50s pulp era romp, which is high praise coming from me.
I am looking forward to seeing how Maxwell deals with the unexpected results of his journey and what becomes of the secret at the heart of his return.
I feel like there are some hidden layers to the novel, but my tired brain is not processing it since I was catching two or three chapters after a tiring work week.It was a little random and wordy at times, you could really tell Simak liked scenery descriptions, and the characters can be a bit flat with the lack of description outside the dialogue (e.g., a lot of "he said, she said" without any adjectives or adverbs).
Some of the characters were pretty enjoyable though, like Sylvester and O'Toole.
Мир и разбирателство в цялата вселена.
Земята като научен център на галактиката.
През цялото време си отбелязвах с едно листо, защото започнах книгата като бях на палатка.
Не знаех колко много ще си подхожда моят книгоразделител с цялата магическа есенна картина, която рисува авторът.
Личи си, че писателят обича героите си, не само по това, че никой от тях не умира :) Разказът върви плавно и постепенно, но въпреки това действието е динамично.
Имаше всичко, което аз харесвам - фантазия, хумор, добри приятели, хепи енд и всичко между тях.
+ това, че беше написана доста разбираемо за научна фантастика.
A funny, sometimes poignant page-turner that shines with imagination, in both the science fiction and fantasy genres at the same time. In a future world where mythical creatures and peoples walk the streets with humans, extraterrestrial aliens and humanity exchange visitors and business, and time travel is a fact, a man is trying to solve his own murder before whoever killed him once can do it again. I love Simak's work, and this is one of his best.
Loved it! The humor reminiscent of C. S. Lewis or others from past decades with lots of great creatures and allusions. Time travel, aliens, fae, it's all here. Highly recommended when you need a fun, entertaining adventure.4.25
