https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39720991-the-witch-elm
I actually didn't love a Tana French book...
It's definitely not a bad book, but The Witch Elm - French's first standalone outside of her Dublin Murder Squad series - just didn't contain a lot of the stuff I've loved from this author.To start with, I feel like my love for French is centred around her awesome, snarky, flawed, messy, human detectives.
For example, I usually enjoy the long-winded nature of Tana French's books.
French does a lot of excellent things in this book and she digs into something interesting with Toby: how someone's luck, privilege, whatever-you-want-to-call-it can really affect not just a person's physical circumstances but their entire outlook on life.
oooh, goodreads choice awards semifinalist for best mystery & thriller 2018!
what will happen?***********************************************OH MY GOD, IT'S HERE!
AND IT'S NOT AN ARC - IT'S A FINISHED COPY AND IT'S MIIIIIIINE!
goodbye, rest of day.
***********************************************UPDATE - while my plan to corner an unscrupulous intern (harlequin presents #945: cornering the unscrupulous intern) may have failed, the universe has provided, and i am going to be reviewing this for l.a. review of books - ARC is en route.
A MOST FRABJOUS DAY, INDEED!!!
i am prepared to camp out in front of them until some kindly intern slips me an ARC of this.
Explanation of rating: I had 5-star expectations for The Witch Elm--Tana French is one of my favorite authors and while I haven’t loved all of her books, I really enjoyed the most recent installments of the Murder Squad series.
It seems purposefully done to fully give the reader a full view of Toby’s mental decline, but I feel like the same impact could have been achieved without a full-on recap of every minute of Toby's life.
If you are a reader who does not like reading every minute detail about a character’s life, you might struggle with this book.
It looks like Toby’s luck may have finally run completely out…I have loved Tana French since ‘In the Woods’ and have read nearly all of her books since then.
Did it have to do with the trouble Toby got himself into at work?
I think I understood some of the deeper aspects of the story, such as, how we view ourselves compared to how others see us, how memory plays a role in our lives, how our actions, or inactions often have consequences we are not aware of, as we go merrily along our way.
4.25 Stars* (rounded down)There is something about the feeling I get before reading another Tana French novel that calms me and makes me want to sit in a big old comfy chair, with a cushy pillow and a lush blankie surrounding me.
Such was the case with “The Witch Elm.” I have read every book Tana French has ever written, so I knew what I was getting myself into.
I happen to love this - it makes me feel like I know her characters inside and out - I understand them like the back of my hand and I feel like I could live in their backyard, except for the fact that they all live in Ireland and I don’t!
A skull is found in the Wych Elm which takes this finely crafted novel into the events of the past as experienced by the participants looking back from the present day.
Impaired and confused (or is he?), Toby tries to unravel the mystery of the skull which leads him to question who he was, who he believes himself to be, as well as, who he has become.
While a mystery exists, this book is more of a deep dive into the human psyche and an exploration of the perception of events from different points of view.
She has a distinct voice in crime writing....And ‘this’ new 2018 release: “The Witch Elm”, is ‘closer’ in style with her first two books: “In The Woods”, and “The Likeness”...
Many readers will think it’s a Tana French slow-start ( it is a slow start), but I liked the dialogue conversations better the 2nd time I re-read them than the first.
It’s clear - we are not suppose to love this guy...but it takes to the end of the book to understand why!!We spend a LONG time getting inside Toby’s head....When ‘the mystery murder’ starts moving like a speeding train...it’s hard to put this book down.
Love LOVE and more LOVE for The Witch Elm by the amazing Tana French!!Amicable Toby is a happy-go-lucky guy who fancies himself as one the "The Lucky Ones." He has a great job, although he did create a major mess there  - but he sorted out his mess so it's all good.
French does such an incredible, amazing job at developing her characters that if I don't connect with them, I don't enjoy the book.
The Witch Elm, however, is a stand-alone and I love - have I already used the word love - Toby!
Finally amidst all of this upheaval he gets a message that his Uncle Hugo is terminally ill and between suggestions from his mother and his own thoughts of wonderful summers spent at Uncle Hugo’s Ivy house with his cousins Susanna and Leon “, he decides to temporarily move there to keep an eye on his uncle and his health.
The story slows down quite a bit as we are introduced thoroughly to each of Toby’s cousins, what they were like when they were teens spending summers at the Ivy House and what they are like now.
Grown up now, not as close as they once were, they all come together after Toby is attacked in his apartment and left for dead.
When a body is found in the old witch tree in his Uncle Hugh's garden, the Garda is notified.
When it turns out t be someone they know, all come in suspicion, especially it seems Toby.
So the story goes,the very slow unraveling of a history of the characters.
There are plenty of surprises, the characters interesting, myself I had a soft spot for Uncle Hugh, and the questions posed within, important ones.
A superficially likable and self-absorbed main character, Toby, encounters his first care in the world.
It’s probably best that his mother didn’t get him a French poodle.
He didn’t have a pet before the attack and could barely care for himself after it.
(hide spoiler)] Then it got better with Hobie Hugo and his cousins, then Toby bemoans the terrible things happening to him for a long time.
(view spoiler)[ His loveable Uncle Hugo self-sacrifice while dying of brain cancer (hide spoiler)], then it gets better and then the afterword.
Kind of like a wave with long troughs and short peaks.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I found myself incredibly invested in how things would turn out for Toby.After he’s severely injured when two men break into his home, Toby goes to the Ivy House, a family property where his Uncle Hugh lives and where Toby and his cousins spent their summer vacations until they went away to college at eighteen.
There, the discovery of a human skull leads Toby to examine his life and question his family and friends and history—also, who is he now after a head injury.
The writing is magnificent and the twists and turns deftly and satisfyingly surprising.
I thought everything was going to be perfect until I started reading this…🌟 I started this after finishing 3 books in 3 days and I was so excited, I started it while I was a bit tired and got bored so I blamed myself, took a break from reading and started it once again from the beginning the next day, it was a bit better but still I knew I won’t like it.🌟 So enough ranting and let me explain why I didn’t enjoy this; The writing was sybaritic and voluptuous (who uses these words??).
I wasn’t fond of any character but I just powered through this as I don’t like to DNF ARCs.🌟 By the end of the book, many things happened and one thing took me by surprise.
What Tana French, one of my favorite authors, has done here with The Witch Elm (her first non-Dublin Murder Squad book) is very interesting, but I will acknowledge it probably won't be for everyone.The two starting points for inspiration on this book are Who Put Bella in the Wych Elm?
To be clear, this book does not engage at all with the mystery of Bella, just takes the idea of finding the skull in the elm and runs with that in an entirely different context.Our main character is Toby, and the book begins with him happy and healthy and in full form.
But with his brain injury, he can't be sure he's responsible or not...I've been awaiting this Tana French book since it was available for pre-order since her Dublin Murder Squad books are some of my favorite things.
Before that, I felt like she was padding things until she figured out whether she was writing a literary novel or one of her usual literary-mystery hybrids.
I don't want to say Tana French should stick with the Dublin Murder Squad but her next attempt at a standalone needs to be more engaging than this.
DNF - No rating - will not be included in my 2018 book challenge.
Tana French is a skilled writer without a doubt but this book went on and on and on and on and on.
The pacing was slow as molasses.
The slow pace just isn't working for me but perhaps I will revisit this one again in the future.
Tana French is a wildly popular author with a big fan following and I wish her continued success.
I'm better suited to her Dublin Murder Squad books so I think I'll be returning to that series soon.
But boy does it build up to a pretty explosive ending—probably more than any other Tana French novel I've read.
However, it definitely has the same bones as those novels, but it just feels different in tone.
Truly nothing big happens for 75-100 pages, so you have to sort of understand how French operates and/or love her writing to get into this book.
I had confidence that she was taking it somewhere because I'd read her previous works, but I can imagine a newb to her writing might get frustrated at the pacing early on and give up.
They feel like my friends and I’m betraying them.
In the Woods is one of my all-time favorite mysteries.
In it, Toby, a 20-something art gallery worker, is the victim of a brutal burglary in which he’s left for dead.
Among much family drama, a skull is discovered in the garden’s Witch Elm. And from there the mystery commences.
Here’s my main problem with The Witch Elm: it’s just soooo bloody boring.
The skull isn’t discovered until around page 200.
200 pages of hemming and hawing to reach the main plotline.
It felt like I was marching to the Gulag through mud six feet deep.
This is the SLOWEST slow burn of a book, but holy cow did that ending really win me over.Watch me discuss this book in my November wrap up: https://youtu.be/vzYX9EeZvRsListen to me and Katie do a spoiler-filled discussion of the book in this episode of Read or Dead: https://bookriot.com/listen/poor-tom-...
Well….I finished this a couple of days ago & needed to ponder how I felt about it. French has always been one of my favourite authors but this was a departure from her usual style. Not going to lie…..this is a door stopper of a book & right up to about page 160, I considered putting it down. Toby (at that point) was just not that compelling & he really needs to be as you spend all your time with him. Then they found the skull.Nothing like good ol’ human remains to make you sit up &am
Toby (at that point) was just not that compelling & he really needs to be as you spend all your time with him.
The interaction between Toby & certain members of his family is a master class in psychological manipulation.
French is obviously a keen observer & the complicated relationships between family members is very well done.
You may not particularly like your sister/cousin/uncle but when push comes to shove you might find yourself doing something you’d never consider for someone who doesn’t share your blood.
Not my favourite of hers but definitely a book that made me think.
Best known for her Dublin Murder Squad series The Witch Elm by Tana French is a standalone so it seemed the perfect opportunity to try this mystery.Toby is our main character in The Witch Elm and to be honest my first problem with the book.
This is where a skull is found at a witch elm which opens a box of secrets to be uncovered.Now, besides not particularly liking the main character in this story the book also had my next biggest mood killer of incredibly slow pacing.
I have mixed feelings about The Witch Elm.This is a standalone Tana French novel – the first she's written that isn't part of the Dublin Murder Squad series.
In its own way, The Witch Elm is just as much a damning indictment of the justice system as, say, something like The Mars Room, which focuses on the other end of the spectrum, the cruelty doled out to those without Toby's privilege.I know the above sounds more negative than positive overall, but I did enjoy reading this book.
It's the main event, as critical to the story as the crime itself, and she rises to the challenge.The big question at the center of the book is one of luck, of how being lucky in that blessed, golden kind of way can turn you into less of a person.
(I know there are many out there who still hate Rob with the fire of a thousand suns, but I think they'll find that Toby is a very different kind of person they'll hate in a less rage-y way.) It's truly phenomenal.
It’s well-written with fully developed characters, but the story fell flat for me.There’s only one point of view throughout.
Toby is telling the story, and he is unreliable due to a traumatic brain injury he received during a break-in at his apartment.
I had immediate misgivings when a mentally and physically handicapped Toby moved to Ivy House to care for his terminally ill uncle.
The tree in the book is a wych elm (scientific name ulmus glabra).
The UK edition of this book is titled The Wych Elm. Changing “wych” to “witch” in the title of the US edition is ridiculous in my opinion.
In an attempt to help alleviate this, he settles in with his ailing Uncle at an estate he spent a lot of his childhood at, and from there human remains are discovered in the wych elm in the garden and Toby's once peaceful memories become a series of paranoid examinations of his life up until then.While all that certainly sounds interesting, it all falls flat due to boring characters and extremely slow pacing.
Her previous main characters have all been so different but equally interesting, that at this point there was a realisation perhaps French could do no wrong with characterization and storytelling.
Some fans may enjoy this book, but many others with realise it's too different in an off-putting way to be enjoyable like other novels by French.
:(My thoughts so far:Why did you write such a boring character Tana French?!I don't care for the main character of Toby and the story is boring.
I know there is a mystery coming up but I don't care at this point.
I'm not sure why she wrote a 500 page book and it takes until the 1/2 way point of the book to get to the mystery.I can understand character development but not when it's 200+ pages of it and the character is still boring as hell.I've been told this does get better.
This is not French's best endeavor for sure.
Detectives investigating cases is what she knows best.However, when French gets to the murder - she shines, as always.
It's funny though that as dark as Toby's story is, Tana French's view of him as an entitled male able to accept his failings at least somewhat is more optimistic than what we witness in real life.
cough*brett kavanaugh* cough.P.S. Was anyone else bothered by the fact that (view spoiler)[nobody even attempted to use a camera or an audio recorder at any point in this novel (hide spoiler)]?

So what is wrong with this picture?While recovering, Toby gets word that his beloved Uncle Hugo is dying and so he and Melissa decide to live with Hugo at the family home.
Family and friends shuttle back and forth in this home, and then one day a skull is discovered by Toby's niece and nephew and the game is on to find out what eventually turns out to be murder of a supposed friend Dominic, ten years prior.
The psychology of the mind has always been fascinating and this author takes it on with gusto.I recommended this book to those who don't mind a slow start into a character study of abundant proportions.
See my review on booktube: https://youtu.be/kSMgcx-dG4sAND Open Letters Review! https://openlettersreview.com/open-le...
