https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9809.Invisible_Cities
Invisible Cities; Imagined Lives Marco Polo was a dreamer. He had great ambitions - wanting to be a traveller, a writer and a favored courtier. He wanted to live in the lap of luxury in his lifetime and in the best illustrated pages of history later. But he could only be a dreamer and never much more. Was it good enough? He never travelled anywhere and spent his life dreaming away in his Venice and is remembered to this day as the greatest explorer and travel writer of all time. How did that co
The river is the story, the river is the book, arranged in perfect sinusoidal waves of its own and choosing as its reader the greatest of all appreciators, the book catches the splendor of the city and reflects it for your patient eyes in a sort of primitive cubism, leaving it to you to make out all its meaning and all its poetry and to see ultimately yourself in that reflection of all the cities that imagination could possibly build.He started going on long voyages into his own mind, into the reflections of Venice, and into the reflections of those reflections.
I remember a line from a novel I read where a character gazing out at the Grand Canal says, “I keep wondering when all this will happen to me.” Perhaps that’s it, Venice articulates some deep desire we all have or evokes a memory of something that has never quite happened.
Reading this for a second time is a bit like visiting Venice for a second time.
(To be fair her genius is recognised in Italy and France; it’s in the UK she tends to divide opinion.) So Invisible Cities vs The Waves.
You could take ten pages out of Invisible Cities without it being noticed.
Heidi Whitman - Brain Terrain. I have not read Marco Polos’s Journeys, but I could imagine what he has written. Had I read it, I also would have had to imagine what he had written. Same verbs, different tenses.As I am sitting on a bench in front of a museum, waiting for a friend, a family of Italian tourists comes and sits next to me. They come from the land of Marco Polo, or maybe not, may be from the land of Italo Calvino since I do not know if they are Venetians. Italy was a projection of th
They come from the land of Marco Polo, or maybe not, may be from the land of Italo Calvino since I do not know if they are Venetians.
Remembering a Forgetting, like waves of the same sea.DesireTheir visit must have been prompted by some Desire to leave their everyday monotonous but comfortable life and look for excitement.
And their realities are not deciphered in the guide book of the Italians, just as Marco Polo did not succeed in deciphering his cities for the Great Kahn.
They will remain invisible.Great ChanInvisible Cities forms part of the conclusion of Jonathan’s Spence’s The Chan's Great Continent: China in Western Minds.
Marco Polo : Now I shall tell you of the beautiful city of Nottingham where the buildings are made mostly of blue glass, onyx and sausagemeat.
The men of the city trade in fur, spices and photographs of each other with their respective spouses.
They play canasta and billiards mostly, but also trade junk bonds and enjoy swapping photographs of the men of Nottingham with their respective spouses.
We will recommence in the cool of the evening.Marco Polo : I await your pleasure, my Lord.Kublai Khan to his chief fixer the Grand Weirdo of All The Kingdoms : Later this afternoon I wish you to tell Sr Marco I have died.
It's easy to describe what 'Invisible Cities' is not rather than what it is as it's really very difficult to ascertain which category it can be put into; it neither has a clear plot nor characters are developed as they normally are, it can't be called a novel or collection of stories, can't be put in any one genre since it surpasses so many; but still something extraordinary, something which can't be described in words, which can only be felt.
Either Venice or Paris, Calvino’s cities are a trip through imagination to lives never had, doors never opened, people never met.Someone else might appoint the reader as the real protagonist of Calvino’s book for he becomes the traveler who visits these cities mentally, which are nothing else than representations of his current mood, his past experiences and his unverbalized longings.
Every reader will discover its meaning in the surrealistic patterns of titles and alternating themes that give shape to an unrepeatable skyline, a personal print that will only fit the soul of each traveler.To me, Calvino’s cities represent the deadlock between dreams and reality and the way we connect them in our minds to dominate the pulse of time.
The eye does not see things but images of things that mean other things.” •	“Your gaze scans the streets as if they were written pages.”•	“Does your journey take place only in the past?”•	“Arriving at each new city, the traveler finds again a past of his that he did not know he had… Futures not achieved are only branches of the past: dead branches.”•	“Cities, like dreams, are made of desires and fears.”•	“The most fixed and calm lives… are spent without any repetition.”•	“The exhalations that hang over the roofs of the metropolises, the opaque smoke that is not scattered, the hood of miasmata that weighs over the bituminous streets.
I think I am going through a very internal, sponge-like phase.
I want my thoughts to take a sort of anti-shape through the inaudible whispers of apparitions, and so need a book which tells me by taking me away.
Depending on the placement of your feet at the period of your life which you read this, you may experience several very different books.
*Also, there are simultaneously beautiful and horrifying scenes aplenty in this book, balanced in the same way that made me love reading Greek and Roman mythology as a child.
You landed in my world on a calm, dewy eveningAnd struck was I with a song I was about to sing;A song that lay hidden in the silhouettes of each letterThat protruded from the cover, all poised to embitter.But waited I, patiently, under the light of the mundane day;You see, Mr. Calvino, I had a knack of seeing your way.Fusing the curious with the depth, and peppering them with some humor too;All too often, you had served, a world that was both fictional and true.So, on a fine evening, when all your cities rose, at once, to a noisy chatter,I exited my world and entered yours, as it was now, an urgent matter.Welcome!, said Kublai Khan, The Imperious Chinese Emperor,Even as he kept his gaze fixed at one particular Conjurer.This particular Conjurer bore remote resemblance to the mighty Apollo;Ah!
350. Le citta invisibili = Invisible Cities, Italo CalvinoInvisible Cities (Italian: Le città invisibili) is a novel by Italian writer Italo Calvino. It was published in Italy in 1972 by Giulio Einaudi Editore. The book explores imagination and the imaginable through the descriptions of cities by an explorer, Marco Polo. The book is framed as a conversation between the aging and busy emperor Kublai Khan, who constantly has merchants coming to describe the state of his expanding and vast empire,
The cities are divided into eleven thematic groups of five each: Cities & Memory; Cities & Desire; Cities & Signs; Thin Cities; Trading Cities; Cities & Eyes; Cities & Names; Cities & the Dead; Cities & the Sky; Continuous Cities; Hidden Cities.عنوانها: شهرهای نامرئی؛ شهرهای بی نشان؛ شهرهای ناپیدا؛ نویسنده: ایتالو کالوینو؛ انتشاراتیها: (باغ نو / پاپیروس)؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز هفتم ماه اکتبر سال 2003 میلادیعنوان: شهرهای نامرئی؛ نویسنده: ایتالو کالوینو؛ مترجم: ترانه یلدا؛ تهران، پاپیروس، 1368؛ در 152 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، باغ نو، 1381؛ در 152 ص؛ شابک: 9647425163؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان ایتالیائی - داستان مارکوپولو و قوبیلای قاآن در سده 14 معنوان: شهرهای ناپیدا؛ نویسنده: ایتالو کالوینو؛ مترجم: بهمن رییسی؛ تهران، کتاب خورشید، 1388؛ در 206 ص؛ شابک: 9789647081733؛ چاپ دوم 1389؛ چاپ سوم 1392؛ عنوان: شهرهای بی نشان؛ نویسنده: ایتالو کالوینو؛ مترجم: فرزام پروا؛ تهران، نگاه، 1391؛ در 152 ص؛ شابک: 9789643517960؛ رمان «شهرهای نامرئی»، اثر: ایتالو کالوینو، نویسنده ی ایتالیایی، توسط مترجم دیگری نیز به فارسی ترجمه شده، و ایشان نام «شهرهای ناپیدا» را به روی اثر خود گذاشته، ترجمه بهمن رییسی از کتاب در 216 صفحه منتشر شده.
I live in a city, and every day I ride the subway with people who live in different cities.
As a tourist, I see a lot of hats.Some cities are legitimately different.
I'm lucky.I've been reading Invisible Cities on the subway, a chapter each way, looking around me and thinking, "Do I see anyone who lives in this city?
The city of mirrors?" I imagine they're looking back and thinking, "If that bald guy keeps staring at me I'm going to punch him." My dog rides the subway with me.
I can't imagine what city he lives in.What's your city like?
This is my favourite Calvino book and the one I always suggest to friends to ask me for an interesting easy read or a start into Calvino's universe. It is hard to write a long review here without giving away the entire story but suffice it to say that it is poetic prose at its best. The nearest equivalent in graphic novels for me would be the many melancholy works of Schuitten in Les Cités Obscures series. A total classic and must read.
اين جا چراغ راهنماست كه هزارتايش را در هر شهرى ديده ام، اين جا ديوارها را پر كرده اند از پوسترهاى انتخاباتى همان طور كه در شهر خودمان هم مى كنند، اين جا شهردارى ميدان را حصار فلزى كشيده و كارهاى ساختمانى مى كند، با ماسه و سيمان و ماشين هاى ساختمان، انگار نه انگار كه اين خيابان و اين ميدان و اين شهر هفتصد سال قبل در كنار شاه شجاع و سعد بن ابوبكر زنگى و ساقى سيمين بر، موضوع غزل هاى حافظ و سعدى بوده.آن زمان با خودم فكر كردم: ببين چطور مدرن سازى دست و پا شكسته شرقى، مانند آن زاغ و كبك معروف، هر چه شرقى بوده را از دست داده و در مقابل حتى شبيه به غرب هم نشده.
Marco Polo and Kublai Khan talk of cities Marco has visited.Where to begin with this one?
I thought the writing was beautiful.
As Marco tells more and more stories, Kublai questions the nature of his empire.Unfortunately, very little actually happens.
While they are very well written, the individual city tales read almost like entries in a poet's travel journal.
There's not really an actual story unless you consider an ongoing conversation between two historical figures a plot.While I'm glad I read it and I thought the writing was masterful, I don't feel like gushing about this particular book.
A city inhabiting one’s inside, its streets, lanes and by-lanes running in the veins and arteries, the hubbub of the city enlivening even the tiniest fraction of a being.
And then - a multitude of such cities, standing under the auspices of their heritage, a witness to the chronicles of their golden times, cities with their halos; an invisible but inescapable allure.
The outline of houses in the sea by which they stand; the shadows in clear water defying the ephemeral.
Let me seek those cities O my mind, cities invisible but living inside me….
"What are men to rocks and mountains?"  - Jane AustenOr should I say, "What are men to cities and structures?"I finish Invisible Cities as my parents plan their trip to Europe. As someone who loves going to new places and travelling, there is a sense of irony that I feel as I review this. As a 21 year old student with neither the money nor the means to embark on a journey myself, I find myself wandering about the cities that Marco Polo describes to the great Kublai Khan. Invisible Cities is a f
As a 21 year old student with neither the money nor the means to embark on a journey myself, I find myself wandering about the cities that Marco Polo describes to the great Kublai Khan.
Invisible Cities is an ethereal masterpiece that transports us to a world that we would like to see ourselves in, but would perhaps be disappointed to set foot in.
the descriptions of cities Marco Polo visited had this virtue: you could wander through them in thought, become lost, stop and enjoy the cool air, or run off.
It should also be avoidable, but anyone gifted with a grain of brilliance is tempted to extend it as far as they can, like Donne's speck of dust stretched the length of the universe, one is left wondering whether it was more ludicrous or thought-provoking.Calvino's 'Invisible Cities' is a series of descriptions of mythical, impossible cities told by Marco Polo to Kublai Khan.
In their great collections, one could start almost anywhere, and end almost anywhere, without having lost the thread of their thoughts.What frustrates about Calvino is that he's constantly pushing towards conclusion, and harping on it despite the fact that such a conclusion is not even necessary--indeed, a work like this achieves its effect by the questions it asks, not the answers that it tries to give.
And there is not a sentence that does no warrant savoring with a second or third read in this entire book.This novel is what happens when two historical figures -- in this case, an elderly but spirited Kublai Khan and the younger traveler Marco Polo -- whose lone commonality is being alive at the same time try to communicate without sharing a language.
Each containing within itself invisible cities - one or many - with ephemeral paths waiting to be traversed.
you could wander through them in thought, become lost, stop and enjoy the cool air, or run off.If on a winter's night a traveller..._______________________________Cloned CitiesIt is not the voice that commands the story, it is the ear.Marco Polo takes us on a wondrous journey through the invisible cities that live in his imagination.
Every time a reader sits down to hear Polo’s tales, skewed clones of each city are born and thus the invisible cities proliferate.
And then there are books that you read and they get etched in your mind forever; Italo Calvino’s ‘Invisible Cities’ is one such book.image: Marco Polo the magnificent.
Marco Polo visits the imperial palace of Chinese Emperor Kublai Khan and describes to him all the beautiful cities of the world that he has visited.
If Emperor Kublai Khan is wise, then Marco Polo is worldly-wise and street-smart being so well-travelled.
The film starred handsome German actor Horst Buchholz as Marco Polo and Anthony Quinn as Chinese Emperor Kublai Khan.
I hope I can safely say for everyone that once in our lives we have imagined a particular world, a particular life where the existence is on our terms and conditions.
While reading this book, the memories of my childhood surfaced where I used to imagine a place where everything is made up of chocolates, (well..ok!!
And this one I particularly like...Being the sole survivor when the world ends and starting a whole new civilization the way I want it, where procreation is not the only option of creating a life for human beings (No, I am not a sadist but yes, this book hit me hard in the head).
Προσωπικά, ομολογώ ότι ξεκίνησα να διαβάζω ιστορίες fantasy ακριβώς γι' αυτό το σύμπαν που είχε δημιουργήσει ο συγγραφέας για τους ήρωές του: πολλές φορές μάλιστα έχω ανεχθεί μια μέτρια ιστορία γιατί είχα συγκλονιστεί με την πόλη και το σκηνικό.
Υπάρχουν και πολλά φιλοσοφικού τύπου ερωτήματα που διαχέονται, καθώς βασικός στόχος του συγγραφέα ήταν "να ανακαλύψει τις κρυφές αιτίες που οδήγησαν τους ανθρώπους να ζήσουν στις πόλεις, αιτίες που μπορούν να ισχύουν πέρα και πάνω από οποιαδήποτε κρίση" (από το οπισθόφυλλο)Κλείνω με τις τελευταίες φράσεις του βιβλίου: "Η κόλαση των ζωντανών δεν είναι κάτι που αφορά το μέλλον: αν υπάρχει μια κόλαση, είναι αυτή που υπάρχει ήδη εδώ, η κόλαση που κατοικούμε καθημερινά, που διαμορφώνουμε με τη συμβίωσή μας.
Oh,the city, city... the endless sea...Fun and games on top, mud and filth beneath -A beauty who smiles on the surface; The mistress who wouldn't let you go... So wrote one of our poets.You live in the city: and slowly, the city starts living in you. It takes on a life of its own in your mind. Once the city gets to you, it won't let you go. (I speak from personal experience. I spent twelve eventful years of my life in Cochin, and I carry that city with me, even here in the Middle East.)Italo Ca
Once the city gets to you, it won't let you go.
I spent twelve eventful years of my life in Cochin, and I carry that city with me, even here in the Middle East.)Italo Calvino has immortalised the city in this slim volume of fantastical tales, told by Marco Polo to Kubilai Khan.
Stories which may be distorted memories, fanciful imaginings or outright lies (Polo was not exactly truthful).
Vignettes of imaginary cities are listed, one after the other, in haphazard fashion, interspersed with conversations between the Khan and Polo.
Cities and Memory2.
Cities and Desire3.
Cities and Signs4.
Thin Cities5.
São cidades deslumbrantes e inacreditáveis num mundo de fantasia que tanto me fez lembrar os cenários labirínticos de Jorge L.
Borges.Os livros não se leem todos da mesma maneira; As Cidades Invisíveis são para ler de mente aberta e vazia, deixando que as imagens se apossem de nós livremente, e a nossa imaginação as consolide.
Porém, estas cidades, os seus habitantes, as suas práticas, por mais absurdas e improváveis que possam parecer, são igualmente um conjunto de símbolos reflexivos que nos encaminham pela viajem e experiência históricas da humanidade nas relações com os outros e com o seu espaço, em qualquer lugar e tempo.
مدن إيتالو كالفينو غير مرئية في الواقع, لقطات وملامح لمدن خيالية يحكي عنها الرحالة ماركو بولو نصوص صغيرة تشبه اللوحات السريالية, خيال وغرائب تهت فيهم وأنا أحاول البحث عن المعنى وراء الكلمات بعض المدن تركت أثر جميل ورغبة في العودة لها مرة أخرى
Based on these stories, Kublai Khan dreams of building the perfect city, the sublimation of all the diversity into a sparkling, diamond like structure that would endure for all ages and will form his legacy for future generations.Marco Polo is in his element here, the born explorer who follows his own siren song to find out what lies beyond the horizon, what precious treasure are hidden behind high city walls, still chasing the dream that sent him away for long years from his beloved Venice.
But as the sun sets, so falls a hush, because no one lives here and all but the most resourceful must climb back down to civilization.Taking a path eastward, down stairs and past picnic tables, breathing in the mild perfume of Mary Jane, we arrive in the heart of the Plateau, the land of balconies and colourful spiralled staircases, each avenue an architectural delight.
Spirits and prices soar, and people walk with a skip in their step, humming a tune that keeps them from looking down at their erstwhile neighbours who can no longer climb the stairs to their apartment.To meet them, we must hold our breath and sink deeper into this underground city.
I know those books, mails, poems by heart now but the city has its powers and it'd force me re-read it anyhow.
The last time I went there I kept on reading the signboards of roads, lane numbers and the areas, I only know names of.
Its called city of hidden because it hides everyone inside so even if people are around you don't see them.
There's no reading inside this city.
My strange city, where I live, which I dreamt of since childhood travels too and shows me these glimpses but yet it binds me to itself, making me take shelter in its dark green shadows in harsh summer.
The truth is, I know your city and this garden better than I know my home, if that is what it is.It’s true, I was saying something about Venice.
My images of Venice didn’t need signs.
They were emblems in their own right.I hoped these images of when I was six or 17 would form a kernel around which my dreams of Venice would grow.
I was relieved when you said, “I have neither desires nor fears.”I preserved Venice from and for you without words.
I think this short fiction is quite beautifully drawn, a dialogue between Marco Polo and Kublai Kahn that consists mostly of one enormous travelogue consisting of cities, their differences, and eventually, only their consistencies and made-made up features.There's nothing much more to it except cities and brief descriptions of each, from ancient all the way to modern cities and even cities magical and purely imaginary.
On a few occasions, there's a philosophical discussion about what is perceived in reality and what is expected, of ennui and excitement, of grief and happiness, but in the end, it's all just cities.It's enjoyable for what it is.
