https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6472311-the-defenders
I liked this long short story very much, and I suppose Dick must have liked it too, for a decade after publishing this version in Galaxy (1953) he used it as the basis of a novel The Penultimate Truth.It is set in a world dominated for eight years by nuclear war, in which all human beings live underground and the actual warfare is conducted by robots ("leadys"), designed to survive on the now noxious surface of the earth.
But then something unusual is detected during one of the periodic robot interviews, and a team of humans (equipped with protective suits) decide to venture close to the surface.Although it lacks the reversals of perspective and the metaphysical doubts which characterize much of Dick, it has enough surprises for any well-crafted piece of science fiction.
Both US and Soviets move to Underground bunkers, from where they control(barely) the Fallout universe through radiation resistant Terminators called ‘Leadys‘ (I think their name has more to do with radiation shielding element Lead than the verb lead).Like all other PKD stories this one also offers strong philosophy to contemplate on, from irrationalities of war to dangers of automation to extreme nationalism.
The Leadies are proxy mercenaries, fighting a war while humanity is safe in their bunkers, much like soldiers fighting for the nationalistic interests, while leaders enjoy comfy sofa and safety.
Points win.One day, however, Taylor and his colleagues notice something about one of the leadies they have come into their subterranean world to give them news on the war: The robot is quite cold, although the surface is supposed to be a blasted nuclear hell.
– Probably, Dick waived this idea because once you notice that there is something wrong about the war news the leadies feed people, you start suspecting something evil, and so Dick’s ending is more of a surprise.Nevertheless, I think a more pessimistic ending more in tune with the premise of the story, and also more realistic in that it is difficult to picture a completely non-violent mankind.
I've been reading this little pulp fiction paperbacks in a waiting room I have been frequenting.
It is now!This, like all the rest was written decades ago.
There's been a nuclear holocaust and humans having taken to the depths of Earth to wait it out.
Eight years have gone by in which Leadys, automatons built to withstand radiation, have been monitoring the surface for the inevitable ascension of those under dwellers.
Lately, there have been some anomalous readings from the Leadys and they aren't radioactive.
A team goes to the surface to investigate.
Like all of Dick's fiction there is a mind screw at the end.
This is a short story and it's very obvious when Dick was writing because it's Russia centric. But the theme is pretty universal, thirst for blood and war. It's a cool idea which to me is all a short story has to contain, a cool idea. It's why I like writing them so much. Sci-fi short stories are perfect for summer reading I say!
My first short story by Dick. I'm excited, like I just discovered Asimov for the first time.
Dick for a long time because people said he had great ideas but lacked the writing chops to turn them into great stories.I’m still figuring out whether that’s true, but in the mean time, I was impressed by The Defenders.
In fact, so have the three other short stories I’ve read by him over the past week.
I do, however, keep rolling my eyes each time I encounter a female character, because they’re almost always relegated to the role of wife, mother, or receptionist.
Apparently it was easier in 1953 to imagine a war fought entirely by robots than it was to picture a woman serving in any of the story’s non-combat military roles.
It's not unusual for a short story to be a one-trick pony, but you can see this one coming a mile off. Back in '53 its future Cold War setting probably provided food for thought, less so in the present.
A theory of wars.
A great short story. In 33 pages Philil K. has said more than some authors in 300.
The story is very predictable in places, but at its core, it contains a good idea.
And for me, that’s all a short story really needs – a good idea.
Fans of the Fallout video game series will no doubt draw some correlations to the world that Dick has created in the Defenders, one where eight years ago a nuclear war began between the United States and the Soviet Union.
The Soviets have similarly evacuated underground, and each side builds powerful weapons and vehicles for the remote-controlled war they only see from film that the robots deliver.Despite it’s obvious theme and message, the short story is nonetheless thought provoking and the perfect pallet cleanser in between summer reading.
This is the second Philip K. Dick story I've read and I have to say that it was a great read. I wasn't expecting such a difference from the post-apocalyptic/robotic future type story that this was. I'm looking forward to diving further into Dick's stories that I have loaded up on my Kindle and iPod (audiobooks).
A quick listen available for free on Audible's channels. Becoming more interested by short stories like this. There's something to be said for being able to create a world in such limited time while still being interesting.
Another brilliant Philip K. Dick short story, one with an entirely different twist on the theme "when robots take over".
Sympatiskt.
It is eight years since man stopped living on the surface of the earth.
The under surface which humanity now populates represents a chaotic combination of thundering factories, concrete constructions and high speed Tubes.
Are the Leadies actually engaged in safeguarding the interests of their masters under the surface?
When a team of three scientific personnel headed by Colonel Franks go up the surface to investigate risking the dangers of radioactive danger, what they find bewilders them to the point of utter shock."The Defenders" - A clarion call to humanity against the abuse of Science.
The Defenders is probably the crown jewel of PKD's short stories.
Like most of his short stories, it is a testament against war (the Cold War, specifically), but this particular novel takes it to a new level.When the Cold War became "Hot," humanity was forced underground in order to avoid the bombings and subsequent radiation.
Humans sat miles underground and directed the war through their toys with images of the destruction beamed down to them.
After a couple strange readings, a few humans are forced to experience the carnage for themselves.
In 1953 Philip K Dick had figured out the thrust of his stories - questioning reality.
Americans lived underground and only the robot Leadys could venture out into the wasteland resulting in nuclear Armageddon.
Presumably surviving Russians were in the same situation, but killing the remaining Russians was the only real important thing.
Trying to find the progress of the war, Taylor witnesses the interrogation of a Leady who claims that new weapons keep the surface unsafe.
It's a great story - still relevant.
When is humanity going to figure out how to live together.
When is it going to figure out what's important.

Philip K Dick once again showing us why he's one of the kings of Science Fiction writing. The story was tight concise and every word not used for advancement of the plot was essential in crafting the world. The desperation of the world, the slight smugness of our protagonist and even his ability to see the shift in mental attitudes all serve the tightly wound narrative and as someone who has been reading much Asimov lately Dick's robots did feel different than a Three Laws robot yet an eerily similar dilemma was resolved in his own particular way.
This was a neat little short story that I found as a free download.America and Russia have gone to war. The weapons have advanced so much that it has devastated the surface of the planet. Humans have retreated underground while robots have continued the war for the last seven years.This story is a little dated and I did figure out where it was going by the halfway mark. I still feel it was masterfully executed in its telling. Highly recommended for any science fiction fan.
Man now lives in underground bunkers, safe from the war torn radioactive surface. Taylor a technician and others recieve reports of the ongoing surface war everyday, all surface activities are carried out by 'leadies', created robots not affected by the radioactivity. But then a strange thing is realised, and a team is sent to the surface to investigate, they are most surprised at what they find.......
Humans are living in the 'Undersurface' to survive the fallout of the nuclear war their robots are fighting with the Soviet robots.This has the classic PKD feel to it, poor aging and all. It's still got that core, though, that draws me to lots of his stories. His signature cynicism is here, although a bit subdued. I think it grew later in his career.
This short swung from a bleak, dystopian future to one with such hope that it's easy to forget that they're being forced into it. It's an interesting take on humanity being taken back from rock bottom after proving to be unable to do so themselves.
very predictable in places, but overall a story i quite liked, especially considering the socio-historical and political circumstances under which this has been written. Despite the cheesy ending (PATHOS!!) I'm rating this 4* because of the thought process it's stirred in me.
PKD is a master of making you think about the world we live in. Another short work with another massive point. In this we examine the very nature of war. PKD always had something to say in his writing. Always. This story is no different.
The main idea was quite fun, but I found the finale and some of the reasoning unfulfilling and unrealistic
This was part of the book Robots, Androids, and Mechanical Oddities.
I love cold war era sci fi
Novellix två ur scifi-boxen är författad av Dick mannen bakom Blade Runner, Minority Report och Total Recall, en gigant inom scifi alltså.
Jag har faktiskt bara läst en enda bok av honom fast jag sett många (alla?) filmer.
Dags alltså att läsa mer.Försvararna handlar om när det kalla kriget övergick till ett hett krig.
Det är åtta år sedan någon kunnat befinna sig på ytan, alla rapporter därifrån kommer olika botar.
Det är också botarna som numera genomför kriget.En dag vill dock en grupp amerikaner ändå testa att ta sig upp till ytan.Tycker slutsatsen tangerar den i Jag robot av Asimov, och Asimov var nog lite elegantare.
