https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/557389.A_Bride_Goes_West
Personal narrative of life in the west in the 1880's onwards.
One thing that stood out to me was how the women were treated with such respect.
There weren't many women out west, but the few that were received assistance, protection and care.
Alderson took care of herself and dressed in feminine clothing.
The one instance where a woman wears trousers is frowned upon and looked at as very unusual (which it was at the time).
The onlookers actually question whether the woman will be able to get married as the men didn't appreciate her masculine ways.
Later, she is shown married but having gone back to a more feminine lifestyle.
In spite of the difficulties and occasional bouts of self-pity, Nannie's perseverance and hopefulness shine throughout the book. My husband enjoyed the book as much as I did, pronouncing it a "nourishing" read. Nannie writes about the ups and downs of marriage, misunderstandings with Indians and isolation. She tells of the elusiveness of riches and how they had to carve joy out of simple things. She never sugar-coats her life, but there is a sense of fierce determination to make things work out that is inspiring.
"Hot rolls, plus a vague understanding that petticoats ought to be plain, were my whole equipment for conquering the West."Often, we think of Western women as those who were capable, but such was not always the case. Nannie Alderson describes her first years as a Western bride in a detailed, educational fashion; a bride who knew practically nothing about housekeeping was now 100 miles away from town with no neighbor women to whom she could turn for help.Because of some details of a notorious woman, I would not hand this book to readers under 18--though it is not explicit.
This is a memoir from a woman who was brought to the west by her husband way back in the indian days. Truly, they were one of the first couples to help settle that part of Montana, so there is so much information in this book, about settlers and their relationship with the Indians and their few neighbors. Hard times and losses abound. This is a piece of history. Great read.
An excellent history of a genuine southern belle who left her Virginia home to marry a cowboy in 1883 and moved to Montana.If you want to learn about the REAL west, this is the book.
Interesting and refreshing.
She obviously loves her husband deeply, but she is a product of her time, and so doesn't let the reader in on kisses or embraces or anything more intimate than their nickname for each other (Pardsy)-- throughout the book, she refers to the love of her life and father of her children as "Mr. Alderson." As others have pointed out, the modern reader is sometimes taken aback by a rare but casual racism in some of her comments, not just about her black servants in Virginia but in her presentation of the Native Americans, about whom she becomes quickly disenchanted.
They were so hopitable to them, always feeding them only to have them burn their house down due to one of heir foolish ranch hands.
Nevertheless, embracing forgiveness, their house was always open to the Cheyennes.
Due to the demands of Western hospitality she had to feed and house any all strangers passing through.
Her husband had to pull one of her teeth, and the only thing she had beforehand was some whiskey.
Sad that she was left a widow to support her 4 kids, due to her husband getting kicked in the head by a horse.
It tells the story of the married life of Nanny Alderson, who moved from West Virginia to Montana after her wedding in 1882 to a would-be rancher.
In some ways, it adds a more intimate feel, like you are sitting in the room when she was telling the story, but it can also be confusing when she starts one story, and them jumps to another that happened years before or later.Having just been to Montana for the first time this summer, I also found it interesting to think about my trip and what I saw and comparing it to what Alderson describes.
For a realistic snapshot of Montana ranch life in the late 1800s from a woman's point of view, the clear memory of a southern pioneer, Nannie Tiffany Alderson, brings it into clear focus.
Born in West Virginia in 1860, Nannie traveled to Montana as a bride in l882; the book was published in 1942, when she was over eighty years old.
For years she has been telling her tales of the cowboys and the children, the Indians, the Eastern visitors and the animals who peopled the domestic scene on a small Montana ranch; and these tales of hers have made the wild West seem a good deal less wild and more human.
A Bride Goes West is an interesting account of Nannie Alderson's life as new bride who was raised in West Virginia in a plantation home, moving west with her husbanc to Montana in 1882.
Learning how to cook, make do with much less, considering people as neighbors who are more than 6 miles from her home, Nammie tackles it all.
It is a story told after the fact so you have to wonder how much of the story's hardships are colored by the passing of time.
My sister-in-law sent this book along a while ago and I finally picked it up for some lighter reading. The author has an incredible memory for all the small details of frontier life, and her reflections as an old woman on her youth are insightful. I'm also enjoying taking in all the information about how they survived in remote wilderness before any modern services - information useful for someone considering getting off the grid!
This is a first-hand account from a woman's perspective of ranch/ pioneer life in the 1880's. It gives you a real appreciation for the struggles/ realities of everyday life. Perhaps the most significant part of the story for me is that I am related to the protagonist, so I very much enjoyed a window into this part of the world (and my family.)
Easy to read, this book gives a true picture of pioneer ranching in the late 1880's. It challenges our consumer mentality, because we have so much and tend to want more, while she had so little, yet she appreciated what she had, cherished the people in her life, and worked hard with determined cheerfulness.
I can't point to one thing that makes this autobiography special, but by the end it seemed unique to me. Mrs. Alderson is a humble, self-deprecating, perceptive heroine who shares her loves, fears, and hardships generously. The contrast with my life is so striking that I can envision pulling this book off the shelf to refresh that perspective now and then.
This is the true story of Nanny Alderson, born in the South in 1860, who married a cattleman in 1882 and traveled with him to Montana to start a little ranch. Though the reader will learn a lot about ranching, she will learn even more about the alues of those who settled the ranch country during that period.
Nannie Alderson seems to have had an interesting life. She lived in turn of the century Montana on a ranch and attempts to tell her life story in this book. I just wished she had better writing skills to tell about it. The stories jumped around, there were too many side characters mentioned and some of the more interesting parts could have used more details.
A young bride travels to a Montana Cattle Ranch. It's always enlightening to read about pioneer life. It puts our easy, modern existence into perspective. Enjoyed reading this book. Would save the hard copy....
I found this book very charming. The writing is simple and clear, and Nannie T. Alderson is refreshingly frank. The book is full of fascinating tidbits about life on the American frontier, such as that beaver tail soup was considered a delicacy.
Henry Babinsky got me to read this book. It is about settling in Montana from 1878 - 1917. I loved it so much. There is a lot of wisdom in the book. I loved the last line, "My friends tell me I led a hard life, perhaps - but I don't think an easy one is ever half so full."
Fun, if overly anecdotal. Alderson is arguably a textbook example of her era's values and culture, but that doesn't keep them from being repugnant (her racism particularly). Nonetheless, still a valuable firsthand account of women in the west.
Finally! Book about settling the West that is authentic and....readable (unlike Nothing Daunted, that I couldn't even finish). Published in 1942 when the author was 82, it is still good reading. Set in eastern Montana.
too boring, couldn't finish.
Review to follow one day, hopefully, after a re-read!
A sobering biography of womanhood during the pioneering West.
I don't really like Little House on the Prairie type books, but I really liked this one. It was both interesting and inspiring about how women can do hard things.
I loved reading about this early Montana bride and her adventures, especially since I am acquainted with the area where she lived. What character has those early day pioneers!
I enjoy reading about the settling of the West.
JF-YAAld
Such an interesting story! However, it is not told in a very engaging manner. My students find it dry and get lost in the mundane details that could be described more vividly.
