https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47733.Love_Poems
Taking as its central theme the lover as redeemer/destroyer, Love Poems consists of twenty-five sensual poems that probe the depths of erotic experience. The collection has much more passion and imagination than Sexton's previous collection, Live or Die, which won her the Pulitzer Prize but always has seemed to me to be the weakest of her early collections. Many of the poems deal with rebirth and warm landscapes, making it a perfect spring or summer read.
Love Poems, Anne Sextonتاریخ نخستین خوانش: دهم دسامبر سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: عشق دیوانگی و مرگ ؛ عاشقانه های آن سکستون؛ شاعر: آن سکستون؛ مترجم: طیبه شنبه زاده؛ تهران، سرزمین اهورایی؛ 1393؛ در 67 ص؛ شابک: 9786006792248؛ موضوع: شعرهای عاشقانه آن سکستون - قرن 20 م از شعرهای کتاب با عنوان: ماپیچیده شده بودملای مخمل سیاه و مخمل سفیدتو بازم کردیو در نور طلایی رنگبر سرم تاج گذاشتیبیرونمورب و شدیدبرف میباریددانه های ده اینچی برفمثل ستارهدر تکه های کوچک کلسیمفرومیریختما در بدنهای شخصیمان بودیم(همان اتاقی
اگر بخواهد نیشی هم بر ما فرومی‌کند، با عشقی که هماره در جای جای روح شاعر در حال تبانی با مرگ است.
به هر حال این شاعر است که دست به گزینش می‌زند، و در اختیارِ نه چندان مختار، دو مفهوم کلان را از هستی برمی‌دارد.
مرزبندی درست و دقیقی هم در کار نیست؛ در شعر: «آن سکستون»، به خصوص هرجا شاعر از انسانی یاد می‌کند، که روزی شیفته ی او بوده، بلافاصله پای مرگ نیز به میان میآید.

Diciamocelo, sono stata di passaggio.Un lusso. Una scialuppa rosso fuoco nella cala. Al mio amante che torna da sua moglie(Anne Sexton)Lei è tutta là.Per te con maestria fu fusa e fu colata,per te forgiata fin dalla tua infanzia,con le tue cento biglie predilette fu costrutta.Lei è sempre stata là, mio caro.Infatti è deliziosa.Fuochi d’artificio in un febbraio uggiosoe concreta come pentola di ghisa.Diciamocelo, sono stata di passaggio.Un lusso. Una scialuppa rosso fuoco nella cala.Mi svolazzan
Diciamocelo, sono stata di passaggio.Un lusso.
Una scialuppa rosso fuoco nella cala.
Al mio amante che torna da sua moglie(Anne Sexton)Lei è tutta là.Per te con maestria fu fusa e fu colata,per te forgiata fin dalla tua infanzia,con le tue cento biglie predilette fu costrutta.Lei è sempre stata là, mio caro.Infatti è deliziosa.Fuochi d’artificio in un febbraio uggiosoe concreta come pentola di ghisa.Diciamocelo, sono stata di passaggio.Un lusso.
Una scialuppa rosso fuoco nella cala.Mi svolazzano i capelli dal finestrino.Son fumo, cozze fuori stagione.Lei è molto di più.
Lei ti è dovuta,t’incrementa le crescite usuali e tropicali.Questo non è un esperimento.
I hope that despite a messy (if only for its failure to be epic or stormy or contented and sweet) past love-life I will never know the pain that the the speaker of this poem knows.
My hair rising like smoke from the car window.
She sees to oars and oarlocks for the dinghy, has placed wild flowers at the window at breakfast, sat by the potter's wheel at midday, set forth three children under the moon, three cherubs drawn by Michelangelo, done this with her legs spread out in the terrible months in the chapel.
If you glance up, the children are there like delicate balloons resting on the ceiling.
3.5 Having now read three Sexton's, I find her to be a bit of a hit and miss. The only thing is, when she hits, she hits so damn hard.

Raw and classy in a way that only a whiskey-drinking middle-aged woman can be.

La Sexton, genio folle e visionario, sensuale poetessa femminea, attrice sul palcoscenico della vita, crea poesie che non possono lasciare indifferenti.
Maestra dello stile cosìdetto "confessionale", come Lowell o la Plath, esibisce i suoi demoni, le sue fragilità, i suoi ruggiti, le sua sensibilità ferita, la sua carica sensuale e anticonformista, lo stile selvaggio e dissacrante.
NEL PROFONDO MUSEODio, Dio mio, in che angolo strano mi sono cacciata?Sono morta o no?
Ho simulato.Sì, simulato, o per stramaledetta viltàil mio corpo non mi ha renduta.
Ho perdonato assassini e prostitutee ora aspetto come il vecchio Giona non già decedutoné vivo, carezzando una bestia maldestra.
One of my favorites. Knife-twisting in your inside-feeling parts. Completely necessary. If I had enough skin I would have "Eighteen Days Without You" tattooed somewhere.
I'm very glad I own this collection and can unwrap these poems over multiple reads. Each poem is multi-layered, dispair and deep sensuality wove together by sharp imagery and well constructed metaphors. Goodreads doesn't list the edition I own: 2 Printing Hardcovered book printed in 1969
3.4/5. I did think that this was going to be a very cheesy collection, but Anne Sexton does love like no one else. While I found most poems good, there were some that did not live up to the standard, but were interesting nonetheless. Favorites: The Breast, That Day, In Celebration of my Uterus, The Nude Swim, Loving the Killer, For My Lover, Returning to his Wife, It is a Spring Afternoon, You All Know the Story of the Other Woman, The Ballad of the Lonely Masturbator, Eighteen Days Without You.
The best poetry collection I've read, Anne Sexton's Love Poems tells a love story in the voice of the other woman, the mistress. This mistress, like the ones in medieval Romances, finds love only through this role of other woman, but here it's not the outside world that complicates the adultery, it's the mistress' own feelings about the affair and what it means, which is always changing, in one turn shooed and another affirmed.
I love Love Poems, but I'm surprised that almost no reviewers here have mentioned 'That Day'.To me, 'That Day', stands out as the clearest written expression of female sensuality I've ever seen. If you're interested in this book, find 'That Day'.It's one of few times where something I've read has internally displaced me so far that it calls for me to 'gather myself' for a few minutes after reading—it was so vivid, believable and succinct.
I love her poetry anyway, but this collection just puts it all out there in a way that pushes boundaries even for her. Which, of course, makes the reading all the more interesting.

There are bad poets, good poets, great poets and then there is Anne Sexton slyly rising to the side, above them all. Nonchalantly subversive, her "Love Poems" is both a snub and a continuation of a literary tradition. Who else but the Bostonian bard of witchery housewifery would have thought to versify the intoxications and mortifications that accompany an extramarital affair and then throw the brilliant "Ballad of the Lonely Masturbator" into the mix for good measure? In short, no one. Peerless and fearless, Sexton is the definition of a seductive agitator. Happy Valentine's Day!
Anne Sexton's poetry is what I live for. 8/10
And the heart too, that cripple, how it sangonce. How it thought it could call the shots!
What a lovely little collection. Engaging. Examines desire in a very beautifully sexual, yet sexually understated way.
in the grand tradition of jane austen, sylvia plath, and anais nin, I have fallne helplessly in love with suburbia once more
Such a skilled poet. I've read this over and over again
I liked this set of poems by Anne Sexton, and I think it helped with the introduction, which gavea bit of context and inspiration for the poetry.
There's masturbation, adultery and even a small poem about the orgasmic feelings of having the back of her knee kissed.
Favourite quotes: In Celebration of My Uterus: Everyone in me is a bird./I am beating all my wings./ ...
/ Each cell has a life./ There is enough here to please a nation.
Just Once: Just once I knew what life was for.
She's my encounter./ I beat her like a bell.
A series of poems, linked together almost as a story, about the beginning (and ultimately the ending) of an adulterous relationship.
The language is sensual and lovely, almost mesmeric, but the very long poem at the end, as the protagonist counts the days since the end of the affair, did jog me out of it a little - I suppose that's almost the point, the jarring end to romance, the opening up again of a world that is suddenly less narrowly focused than it was, but I didn't particularly enjoy the jarring.
There are some beautiful poems in here though, and it's hard to pick favourites.
My two favourite poems in this collection were possibly the least 'lovey' ones in it. For My Lover, Returning to His Wife (p. 21)The Ballad of the Lonely Masturbator (p.33)Reading this, made me realise how much I censor myself when writing my poetry. I have a feeling it's going to be a hard thing to overcome, but I'll try anyway, even if the poems only end up being for my eyes. (I think the problem is that I write them, already imagining the reactions of the people they're about).
This could be my own fault, but a lot of these poems just went over my head. I honestly just kept reading to get it over with.
*نوت تو ما سيلف كفاية محاولات مع أن سكستون ومع هذا النوع من الأشياء بشكل عام.
سخيف ومثير للضجر لم استطع اكماله قصائد تافهه
She's a great writer, but this wasn't really for me.
