https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2888221-the-concept-of-nature
Whitehead has come up as an influence on both philosophers/theorists (Latour, Bennett, DeLanda, Deleuze/Guattari) and theologians that I've been interested in recently. This was a nice (free -- thanks Project Gutenberg!) intro, though even for me it got a little overly dedicated in its exploration of definitions. It's worth riding it out, in part because now I feel ready to dive into some other works of his.I suppose it helps that I was already pretty convinced that we're better off thinking of everything as a process already (people, mountains, cats, paper, war, ships, music, etc.).Onward!
Anybody expecting to read this book for some kind of metaphysical buzz will be disappointed.
Among these terms (ie a "duration") just when I felt I had grasped his meaning I came upon what to me was an inconsistency.
Since it is ANW I can only conclude I hadn't grasped his meaning in the first place.
He definitely pushes against the tendency to over simplification such as the separation of time and space as well as the bifurcation of nature - His motto at the end of one chapter being "seek simplicity and distrust it".
A more academic mind (which I lack) would probably prefer to read the text more analytically.
Interesting exposition but could be more plainly writtenWhiteheads thesis in this book is outlines a structure for understanding nature in a novel way that, once you penetrate the writing has coherence. It won't give you a modern view but would make interesting reading for anyone interested in metaphysics. The only area lacking is that his symbolism is hard to follow and his coinage of new words unnecessary. Otherwise a pleasant challenge to read.
A marvelous first step in Whitehead's overhaul of our picture of the world. It lacks the completeness of process and reality, yet many of his ideas, still in their fetal stages here, are clearer and more graspable. Not for the faint-of-heart; if you like physics or math, this is a good book for you.
Based on a series of lectures in 1919 at Trinity College regarding discussions on the relations between time, space, and logical perception...Actually a 4.5 read, occasional research to be done during its duration, very interesting and knowledge increasing...
For those who are native natural scientists and/or have an interest in natural philosophy, this book is a must read. It also forms some sort of bridge towards his magnum opus, which is really useful considering the way in which Process and Reality is written.
I was tipped off to Whitehead in Jed Perl's New Art City, where Fairfield Porter and Donald Judd were each apparently influenced by him. Whitehead's discussions about nature, time, space, motion & objects are highly technical - energizing my studio practice.
Dense, difficult, and challengingBut well worth the effort for its insights into nature, our perception of it, and how we might think about nature without bifurcating it.
big thinking here sometimes I have to reread whole paragraphs
