https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32109569-we-are-legion---we-are-bob
A conceptually broad, fun, light-hearted science fiction romp. It has same sarcastic tone utilized in Old Man’s War or The Martian, and reads very much like the first section of a longer book. I wasn't crazy about the storytelling, and I thought it got a little bogged down with tedium in the second half, but it is undeniably fun.If you turn off the literary analysis corner of your brain, you'll enjoy the romp with great concepts.
With a title like "We are Legion" (We are Bob) (Bobiverse Book 1) (Great title!) I was expecting a light, comedy Sci Fi.
Bob's behaviour is pretty believable for someone put in his position.Here is an example joke from "We are Legion"Noting someone's cowardly tendencies Bob describes them as like  Bill Paxton's character in Aliens Then a page or 2 later after finding out the guy is not a complete wuss he says: I mentally upgraded him to Michael Biehn Now this made me laugh out loud but if you didn't like the joke, at least it was delivered in a way where you weren't taken out of the story and shaking your head going:I also must congratulate Taylor on delivering the first actually funny Australian joke I have read.My minor criticisms of the book would be: It seemed like Bob should have woken up 1000 years in the future not 100.
I loved Bob, er, the Bob's! I can tell you right now, if I would have woken up like Bob did I would have freaked and they would have pulled the plug!! I loved the journey through space and all that happened, well mostly!Longer review later!
I'm jumping on the Bobwagon here!I love the light tone throughout and the geek humor mostly relegated to names one AI clone gives to oneself when faced with a profundity of oneself.
Of course.
but the next runner-up has got to be the effortless way we start colonizing the galaxy with each replicant, going back to Earth, exploring the star systems, finding aliens, and of course fighting one little pernicious Brazilian who is racing Bob among the stars and who happens to be a rather dedicated idiot.Oh, humanity is practically wiped out.
It may be appreciated more by geeks, however.
If you liked the genius inventive loner engineer of The Martian and you also liked the amazing universe-building and rambling episodic nature of The Long Way to a Small, Angry Planet then you're probably going to love this book.Bob is a newly minted tech millionaire.
Bob has also just signed up to be cryogenically frozen in the event of his death.
uh oh.Bob is an AI replicant based on a brain scan of frozen tech millionaire-Bob's brain.
The Bobiverse is a rich universe filled with danger and wonder and quite a lot of Bob.There's no great character development, although the plot is fascinating and most of the Bobs are a lot of fun to read about.
Don't get me wrong this is still funny book but it's more witty and smartass kind with lot of pop-culture references and there where times I was grinning like mad with few laugh out loud moments but it's all backed by some real science and story.
Humor, pop culture references and hard sci-fi parts are intertwined into singular, cohesive whole.
In second half of the book story branches into multiple paths with several PoVs (all of which are Bobs) and pace slows down significantly.
Fun and funny hard sci-fi, with some very smart, laugh out loud and nerdgasm moments.
I expected it to be hysterically comical, but even with the geeky pop culture allusions and the endless wit of the great and powerful bobs, I never made it past a good chortle.
Alright, except for anytime GUPPI said anything.
I thought it was pretty standard fare with some cool ideas thrown in.
Without the bobs it would have been a little dull and even with them it wasn't remarkable.
Ray Porter does a pretty awesome job on audio.
I love the subtleties between each of the bobs, he does a great job with all of the accents.
GUPPI.
But easter eggs or satirical references are not the only thing Dennis Taylor is good at.The story is about a young millionaire who invests into cryogenetics - a project freezing your head after your death so you can be revived and given a new (enhanced) body by science in the future (once the technology exists).
So much geeky fun! In addition to all the seemingly effortless tie-ins to all that is nerdy, Dennis Taylor's We Are Legion has a solid story (both about humanity colonizing the stars and the nature of humanity itself). This was an easy and fast-paced read. You may have already read Kim Stanley Robinson's excellent Mars trilogy; Robinson's view on mankind reaching out to the stars seems solid. Even with its ludicrous science fiction references, could We Are Legion be just as plausible?
Even being a typical geeky introverted loner, when faced with the prospect of complete solitude in space, Bob realised that all humans eventually crave company.
The meat of the story really began when Bob created a virtual reality to feel more human instead of just being a bodiless mind.
As the variations of Bobs headed off to other galaxies to search for habitable planets, while one returned to Earth to ascertain the fate of humans since the original Bob left over two decades ago and another decided to attempt terraforming a potential planet, the narrative felt very much like an episodic futuristic reality show of space exploration.
4.5 Stars Universe? It's so out there, man. It's time for a change. It's time for Bobiverse!   ❝ As a species, we're morons.❞    Bob is dead. Yes, it is very tragic. But before his death, Bob had enrolled in a Cryonics program. So when Bob died, they decapitated him and stored his head in a freezer (very professionally), with the hope that he can be restored back to life in future with technological advancements. And they did, in the year 2133.The problem is, USA in 2133 is, in fact, a variation
Its mission: To explore and find strange new habitable worlds before Humans kill each other, to boldly go where no man...
Part one of the story revolves around Bob's "resurrection" and training for the mission to space.
Just like the games, the story features: collecting resources, creating legions of Bobs and assigning them different roles, building tools and battalions, awesome upgrades, exploring space and ruthless showdowns between enemies...
To sum up, this is the grand odyssey of Bob, who started as a man and ended up as a space explorer, master strategist, scientist, farmer, war chief, politician and humanity's last hope.
Bit of a shock, but Bob takes it in his stride, especially since he might have the opportunity to 'man' a self replicating Von Neumann probe to explore space in search of inhabitable planets, something he has always been fascinated by.Taylor uses an interesting concept, not a new one, but one very well crafted.
The whole story hinges on the character of Bob and thankfully, here is a protagonist that is fun, smart, bit of a scifi geek, full of humour (much of it snark), and with a strong moral compass.
Bob ends up being an artificial intelligence who is sent out to explore the universe.
One of his jobs is to replicate himself as he goes so we end up with many versions of Bob, all the same yet also different from each other.
Most of the Bobs share the original’s sense of humour and nerdy outlook on life and a lot of the humour comes from pop culture references.
Just plain good fun.The book didn’t quite make five stars from me but it was close and I amd really looking forward to the next book in the Bobiverse.
3.5This was a very different read for me. The main character becomes a computer in a probe looking for habitable planets. The humor reminded me a bit of "The Martian" and would recommend it if you love sci-fi!
And thus, we end up with a “legion” of Bobs, each one going about their own way and chronicling their own adventures in deep space.This is sci-fi done in a way I’ve never really seen before.
In fact, despite the tensions involved during the earlier parts of the book involving the development phase of the space probe and Bob’s training, I didn’t feel that things took off until well into the story—right around the same time he started replicating himself, which shouldn’t be too surprising given how so much of this book’s awesomeness is directly related to the shenanigans of the many Bobs.
He's a copy of the original Bob, stored in a computer system, and he is owned by the corporation that bought his frozen head from the company storing it.Bob is soon told that he is being trained to control a Von Neumann probe- a self replicating interstellar ship that will replicate itself throughout the galaxy, searching for habitable worlds and sending info back to Earth.Bob is a little disconcerted by not having a body, and struggles with the revelation that he is a mere copy of the 'real' Bob, but the chance to explore the universe is something no true geek could turn down and he embraces his second life with gusto, learning to live with the limitations of being a piece of software.Earth is riven by struggles between competing power blocs with their own interstellar probe programs, and Bob has to deal with bombs, sabotage and political pressure before he even makes it into space.
Real Rating: 3.75* of fiveThis is the most male book I've read in ages. I mean, there are two or three women in it but they're onscreen for a hot minute and then gone again. Mostly it's the titular Bob in one of his many regenerated/rebooted/revived selves.And I think that's why I liked this read so much. One well-educated geek-boy's wet dream of playing in the galactic sandbox. Hell to the you betcha damn straight yes.
I’m thinking of Andy Weir’s The Martian, Ernest Cline’s Ready Player One, and John Scalzi’s Old Man’s War. Basically, these books are a whole lot of fun, drop liberal 1980s geek references, tell an exciting tale, and reject the dark and grim cyberpunk futures exemplified by William Gibson’s Neuromancer, Richard Morgan’s Altered Carbon, Alastair Reynolds’ Chasm City, etc.
It also makes the book less claustrophobic than The Martian, because the other Bobs do have distinct character variations, essentially different aspects of the original Bob’s persona.
This book was totally out of my wheelhouse but I loved it!Bob is a tech genius comparable to Bill Gates.
A total aside: my husband was watching the Science Channel the other night and the show was talking about 3D printers and I asked if Von Neumann probes were mentioned.
Two minutes later the show went into what they were and how they would work and I puffed up with pride.
I'm not sure I would have enjoyed this book as much if I had read it instead of listening.
That said, bring on book two!
4.5 stars for this SF space adventure. So much fun! If you enjoy books like The Martian, this is definitely worth the $3.99.RTC
The second is that since Bob is virtually eternal and omnipotent, the book feels like a slightly-amusing history teacher recounting The History of Things.
But since there were so many convenient but implausible 'discoveries' meant that I never really doubted a solution would appear.My actual reading experience went like this: I'd pick up the book, read for a while, get sleepy or interrupted and put it down.
I would feel absolutely no urge to pick it up again, and actually read at least two other books during that time.
I also found the main character to be initially sort of amusing, but swiftly found him tedious, and yes, immature, but actually found myself getting very frustrated with the author pointing out, at least once a chapter, the main characters' immaturity, as if I was supposed to just chuckle about it and enjoy spending time with ever expanding versions of Bob. I also found the anthropological work performed by one of the Bobs to be irritating and mono-focused on just the males of the alien species, as has happened all too often on earth.
Yes, I know this story was going to be about Bob and the ever expanding versions of Bob, but gack, the lack of female characters was irritating.
The interactions between all the Bob’s was well done and I thought Dennis Taylor did an excellent job with that and keeping them all different and distinct.There wasn’t much suspense in this book for me and at times I felt like Bob was more of a teacher explaining something Sci-Fi to me.
Thank goodness for that part of the plot because I needed the laughs in regards with all the computer and technology information.Ray Porter does an excellent job on the audio with this one.
Thoroughly enjoyed this. Well worth th read. Going to keep this short because I don't have time to write a review. Bit the 4 stars shoudl tell you all you need to know. A great scifi story that I am really looking forward to reading book 2.
And this book delivered: so much fun!
I really enjoyed the humour of this book before everything else - the jokes are well-timed and Bob's wry personality and his pop culture references really worked for me.
The interactions between the different Bob's were bloody brilliant and reminded me of the way I am with my siblings.
I loved the subtle (and not so subtle) differences between them and their names, oh, their names were marvelous.I like how this book is both pessimistic about the future (Faith?
I cannot wait to listen to the next book in this series!...I should stop starting series that aren't finished yet though...
We Are Legion (We Are Bob) is certainly an unusual name for the book. Also, the book itself is an unusual gem!I haven't had so much geeky fun with the book since  Ready Player One  back in 2015!Yes, there were plenty of amazing books in the meantime, but this... geeky, high-tech, future fiction is just so much fun!Robert (Bob) Johansson is a programmer. His company did well, became a major threat to a big market player and eventually got bought out. Capitalism 101.With his newfound wealth, Bob d
All good, right?But just like we all know, and Bob is about to find out, life is a bitch.
We've seen something like this in books before, yet there will be no deja vus here.Upon waking up, more than a century later, Bob finds out that...
Compare your books to mine, and if we like same things jump into this one head first!Very well written, and very well narrated, it will captivate you with an intelligent and deep plot.
(view spoiler)[Yes, 5 of my last 10 books have been narrated by Ray Porter.
This was exactly what I needed as I finished up a full time slate of college courses.
It's a smart sci-fi story in that the science is very well thought out, but at the same time it is accessible to the non-scientific.
Great humor abounds, and there are many geeky pop-culture references that kept me smiling.
I would definitely recommend this to fans of The Martian.
Though the actual story is pretty different, the protagonist and his first person narrative brought back memories of that book.
That, and the humor-geek smartass personality.And what's more, I heartily recommend the audiobook version, narrated by Ray Porter.
I know I've been horrible this year at updating my reading progress and posting timely reviews or even bothering to throw a rating a few.
That's what I enjoy most about this site--you know, actually talking about books.
And if writing a review is what it takes to spark that conversation than that's the lest I can do, right?
So I'm gonna make a pledge, for the umpteenth time, to do better.Believe it or not, I actually have a dozen or so reviews already half written, so I'll see if I can't polish those up and post a few actual reviews in the near future.
It manages to be both reasonable and believable and incredibly farfetched at the same time.
The world is of course on the brink of general environmental collapse and the countries fall into a nuclear-powered war just as our main character is fired off into space to begin his exploration alone.Alone, that is, until he begins replicating his own AI so there are multiple versions of himself.
A nice decision by the author so that these characters could end up having actual conversations that would vary from talking to yourself.The space travel and process of exploring solar systems and planets was done in a reasonably believable fashion.
Loved it! Light humorous sci-fi of the likes of Martian and Scalzi books. Hard science, assorted geekiness and references to all sorts of sci-fi pop-culture, plenty of humour, easy to like main character, sarcastic voice and of course - adventure, space travel and exploration of the stars. The humour tones down in the second part of the book (and the subsequent books) but the sarcastic tone remains. The exploring of the universe, humanity spreading to the stars, encountering other intelligent life forms kept me interested in the book despite it's light no pressure style.Recommend to all sci-fi fans.
