https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2118849.North_and_South
The 1955 volume POEMS reissued Elizabeth Bishop's debut collection North and South, but it also contained an entirely new collection titled A Cold Spring.
One of the best places to get this material is the Library of America volume (ISBN 1598530178) that contains Bishop's complete poems and prose with a choice of letters, but I have found it interesting to slowly examine Bishop's collections on their own.North and South was published in 1946, but of the poems predate the war (or at least American involvement in it) and reflect Bishop's development as a poet through the 1930s and very early 1940s.
I don't know enough about reading poetry to weigh in with an educated opinion.
I can say that I found a number of the pieces in this collection captivating, and others less so.
I'll be interested to see how "North & South" (her debut collection, from 1946) compares with her final collection, "Geography III", which won the 1977 National Book Critics Circle Award (and which I plan to read in a few weeks).
I did find reading Bishop before sitting down to my own projects to be a useful practice.
Very few humans make their way into the pages of this collection.
There's a reason Bishop is a modern classic. Her writing is so obscure and precise and full of wonderful images that resonate and linger. To me, this is what I want from poetry.Granted, yes, some of her rhyme schemes feel a bit dated--if not outright forced--so those can make for some awkward reads. Overall, though, I love Bishop's language and will most definitely be reading more of her work down the road.
We can stroke these lovely bays,under a glass as if they were expected to blossom,or as if to provide a clean cage for invisible fish.The names of seashore towns run out to sea,the names of cities cross the neighboring mountains-the printer here experiencing the same excitementas when emotion too far exceeds its cause.These peninsulas take the water between thumb and fingerlike women feeling for the smoothness of yard-goods.Mapped waters are more quiet than the land is,lending the land their waves' own conformation:and Norway's hare runs south in agitation,profiles investigate the sea, where land is.Are they assigned, or can the countries pick their colors?-What suits the character or the native waters best.Topography displays no favorites; North's as near as West.More delicate than the historians' are the map-makers' colors.There's a little tingle of eroticism here, similar to that in Judith Schalansky'sAtlas of Remote Islands - of defining and outlining a shape, in your mind, with your fingers - a description that moves quickly from land to paper to flesh.
"The Map," "The Imaginary Iceberg," "Large Bad Picture," "From the Country to the City," "The Man-Moth," "The Weed," "The Monument," "The Fish"
About half of these were really good; about half were eye-rolling.
Honestly, you can only use the word 'marl' so many times before it becomes precious.
I think it might be once, too.
Basically, when something actually happens and she feels free to comment on that happening, the poems are great; when nothing happens and she's just describing it's sleep inducing.
For me anyway; I'm pretty uninterested in poetic descriptions of nature.
I guess people fall madly in love with her travel poems, so maybe I should have started there, but I suspect that they'll be yet heavier on the description.
Lullaby.Adult and childsink to their rest.At sea the big ship sinks and dies,lead in its breast.Lullaby.Let nations rage,let nations fall.The shadow of the crib makes an enormous cageupon the wall.Lullaby.Sleep on and on,war’s over soon.Drop the silly, harmless toy,pick up the moon.Lullaby.If they should sayyou have no sense,don’t you mind them; it won’t makemuch difference.Lullaby.Adult and childsink to their rest.At sea the big ship sinks and dies,lead in its breast.
This is a nice set of poems. A number of them deal with geographic features: maps, weeds, an iceberg, a seascape. Some discuss places such as Paris and Florida. I do not have a wide knowledge of poetry, but while Ginsberg is often in-your-face with graphic sex, and Merrill goes deep into, for example, emotional pain, Elizabeth Bishop (in this collection) feels simply light and rather pleasant. This is comfort poetry for bedtime reading. I liked this collection, hence my three star rating, and will read more of this author's poetry.
I love her work. I love form and well-done rhyme. She's insightful, playful and witty. Wordsmith - page and ink as metal and fire.
My favorite poem in this collection is "The Man-Moth," which combines Bishop's characteristic exactness of perception with a floridly imaginative surrealism that is rather unusual for her.
i love Elizabeth bishop and I thought it'd be fun to read her collections at my own pace. I have the collected poems and I just finished reading and reviewing all of North and South, her first published volume. it's so excellent; I love her work. fuck yeah!
This collection is shocking for its almost total lack of musicality. Every poem here seems to trample on itself. The quality of the later collections is astonishing in comparison. The plodding and obvious turns-of-phrase that Bishop was never truly able to shake off are in abundance here.
I can't speak/write cogently on Bishop's poetry per se, so some thoughts.Last week i listened to recordings of her readings.
I experience rhythm and meter better while listening, though While reading poetry these last couple weeks i also noticed that choice images or words send me wandering through memories more so than novels and nonfiction.
I awake to find my eyes have moved over the printed words subconsciously.Returning to poetry feels good, like admitting my attitude was the reason for a silly but longstanding rift in the family.
North and South was the first collection by the American poet Elizabeth Bishop.
Of course, the best place to get this material is in the Library of America that contains Bishop's complete poems and prose with a choice of letters, but it's interesting to examine this collection on its own.From the very first poem, "The Map", we find Bishop's distinctive concern with describing specific scenes in detail, that then give way to some kind of universal, transcendental experience.
"Rooters", acclaimed by Robert Lowell as the best work by an American female poet, goes from describing the dawn chorus around Bishop's home to meditations on tribal violence and religious salvation.
Had two poems I liked a lot and the rest were fine to me. But mostly I was eager to be done with it.
I had no desire to read Elizabeth Bishop before, I think because, while "One Art" is obviously a tight poem, I was never bowled over by it.
It doesn't look right.) Then I read an article on The Millions about her and it quoted some irresistibly good poetry.
Not only does it have a kick-ass cover design (this is the original printing), but the poems are so good.
As with any book of poems, I don't love every single one, but there are so many stunners, poems that I would read and then have to read again.
I feel like reading these poems has shored up my brain in some essential way.
This book showed up on a list of 25 books to read before you die.
I was an English major in college and am a lover of poetry.
So I was surprised that I don't remember ever being exposed to the poetry of Elizabeth Bishop in high school or college.
She was certainly a noted poet by then, dying within the decade after my college graduation.So I ordered this book via interlibrary loan and read the poems which some googling told me were her most notable works.
There are so many poets who literally take my breath away, but Elizabeth Bishop is not among them.
Bishop's first collection, published in 1946, contains many interesting poems.
The pages swarm with birds, fish, reptiles; there is even a man-moth.
The poems are varied enough in theme and style to keep a reader interested through the volume, and it's nice and short, too.
As poetry volumes often are.
:) My favorite poems in this one are "The Monument", "The Fish", "The Gentleman of Shalott", and "The Man-Moth".
This is an enjoyable and accessible book of poetry.
For a more in-depth discussion of the poems in this book, you can visit my blog: http://outsideofacat.wordpress.com/20...
My insides kept lurching throughout; it's so good I'm physically affected.
A lot of the poems take me multiple reads to 'get', because Bishop's placement and selection of words is so economical and sinewy.
Form is a crystalline sort of beauty that refracts, splinters, and magnifies the content.
You can read a poem for the meaning, for the emotion, for the technical achievements.
Bishop plays on all of these multiple meanings, resulting in scintillatingly beautiful and mindstretching poetry.Particular favorites include: The Imaginary Iceberg, The Man from Shallot, The Man-Moth, Roosters, and A Miracle for Breakfast (sestina!).
I have not been a particular fan of Bishop (though long ago I often used "The Fish," which I rather liked, with high school classes), but decided to pick this volume up when I found it at Booked Up in Archer City, Texas.
I found the second half of this first volume quite well-done and will now need to backtrack and see if the first part is truly weaker, or just seemed so because my ear wasn't ready yet.
I'm fast becoming a big fan of Elizabeth Bishop. She's absolutely fantastic, and very much between two worlds (a major theme in her poetry) between a hardworking, Robert Frost Canada and New England, and a working, sweaty, thick-with-humidity Florida. The poetry is mature in the sense that that it does not aim for transcendence (unlike Frost, and that both is and is not a criticism of both Frost and Bishop) but instead it is about conflicts of identity, location, while living and exiting in a working - unidealized world.
This is simply for A COLD SPRING, as I've already read / reviewed NORTH & SOUTH.Once again, Bishop is wonderful. Honestly, I didn't connect with these poems as much as I did with N&S, but her imagery... holy crap, her imagery... is some of the best around. Her poems are lovely, a wonderful batch of words to swish and roll across your tongue, head, and heart.For folks like me that are still dabbling in the poetry realm, I think Bishop is one of the best possible introductions a person could have. And ACS is not a bad place to begin.
"I looked into his eyeswhich were far larger than minebut shallower, and yellowed,the irises backed and packedwith tarnished tinfoilseen through the lensesof old scratched isinglass.They shifted a little, but notto return my stare.—It was more like the tippingof an object toward the light."
Rating for A Cold Spring (though North and South got the same rating). I feel like A Cold Spring is slightly better than North and South - though only just. Half a star difference in rating. Brilliant poetry in both collections, but A Cold Spring seems more mature and consise than does North and South.
Elizabeth Bishop sculpts language into lean, elegant images, images that speak to the spirit. I read these poems while vacationing by the sea during a full moon week. Cold Spring is hauntingly beautiful . . . enough said!
I mostly failed this collection as a reader. But not "The Fish." I love that poem, and if you read one poem this year about catching a fish (as I assume you will), you should make it that one. You can find it here: http://m.poemhunter.com/poem/the-fish/
From "Songs for a Colored Singer:""Fruit or flower? It is a face.Yes, a face.In that dark and dreary placeeach seed grows into a face."
With respect to Ms. Bishop, I get why critics see her as somewhat minor. The ideas are narrower in scope and the form is banal, but the execution is often lovely. Imagistic, descriptive.
