https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5180.The_Rapture_of_Canaan
The way Reynolds has written her, doesn't make her naivity annoying, but just adds to her character.Part of what makes this book so interesting is that it's written in a way that completely immerses you in their obscure and different world, but allows you to keep your own knowledge and ideals about you, so that you look back and can still think, "That's so wrong!"Ninah goes through a trying journey and we are along for the ride.
This book holds so much depth to it, but it's presented in such a way that the reader doesn't feel like their drowning.The one small problem I did have was that the ending seemed a little too abrupt.
Intriguing story.Note June 2017: I remember this really is an intriguing story, have to reread.
Sheri Reynolds paints a vivid picture of "Bible Belt Cultism," as seen through the eyes of a teen-age girl named, Ninah.
The Church of Fire and Brimstone and God's Almighty Baptizing Wind is pastored by Ninah's Grandfather, Herman Langston, who, as Ninah says, "Used the Bible, of course, but only the parts he liked.
The price is excessive for such manipulation and at the Church of Fire and Brimstone it is paid out in emotionally devastated lives.
I just finished reading this book for the second time.
The only books I tend to give 5 stars to are books that make me want to reinvent my life when they are over, live a better life, and be a better person.
This really isn't that kind of book but it is greatness through and through.There were times while reading this book that I just needed to put it down.
I wanted to so badly to reach in and tell her that everything would be okay, that she was doing just fine.
I don't want to be Ninah or have her life.
SPOILERS:This wasn't a book I wanted to savor, but along with some weaknesses, it definitely had its moments. There's a matter-of-fact line I found chilling, about women often dying in childbirth due to their boycott of doctors. The dunking and the rapture were also favorites, though I wondered if the latter was unintentionally funny. This book felt like a fairly convincing look at the inside of a religious cult, even if the language often wobbled.
the book had a really interesting story but ended with a bland ending. I was hoping the end would have been as surprising as the rest of the book.
I started this book with just one expectation, that I wasn't going to like it.
The grandfather runs a fire and brimstone Christian sect called, appropriately enough, "The Church of Fire and Brimstone and God’s Almighty Baptizing Wind." There's no particular mention made of last two words of the church's name so I guess nobody got the joke but me.There's a pretty large congregation and everybody's related so at times it's difficult to realize who's being talked about and what their relationship is to everyone else, so it seems the auxiliary characters are all pretty much interchangeable.
I was going to give The Rapture of Canaan three stars but as the narrative progressed and engaged me I realized how good this book is.
A book of fanatical religious zealousness with abuses, torture, and mind control. Well, this can be viewed as that, or this is a story of how an innocent girl tried to emotionally survive in this kind of control.Rich with symbolism, this story reads quickly and yet has depth and humor. The characters stayed with me long after the book ended. Well Nanna did, while I was deeply rooting for Grandpa Herman’s painful and brutal death.
I actually liked this book a lot I would have liked it more but I wasn't so big on the ending.
There was quite a few very interesting chapters in a vague disjointed kind of way.
The author did everything she could to shock you while trying to make Ninah feel like it was completely normal...
There was one thing from the book though I've taken with me and deeply thought about upon completion of it.
Being a girl who loves to read stories about revenge...
I liked this part of the book best.
But every bit of resentment you hold takes space away from the love.
Seems like it will either deeply offend me, or be too full of irony to take seriouslyThis is too weird to willingly continue, and Oprah has bad taste.had to finish it, but did not want to. ode to the necessary evils in life
Even though this book had its weird moments, it has been my favorite book yet and it was so hard to put down. All of the weird and awkward events just made me wanna read more!
This book was my favorite book so far, very interesting
Love, love, loved it! An emotional and gripping story about a young woman raised in an ultra conservative Christian cult. I loved the first person voice and all the characters, particularly Ninah's relationship to her Nanna.
A little strange because of certain images of Jesus that are morphed into sexually charged adolescent dreams.SummaryNinah grows up in a community of extended family that centers around a fundamentalist church led by her Grandpa Herman.
After her “prayer partner” James learns that she is carrying his baby he drowns himself rather than face Herman’s cruel punishments.
Ninah is nearly cast out when the community learns she is pregnant out of wedlock.
When Canaan is born, the community is shocked to see the “sign” of his hands, which are permanently joined in prayer.
Ninah steals away with Canaan as the community erupts in confusion.
I guess one could put it down to teenage confusion, not helped by having to sleep on a bed of thorns, or the knowledge of what they did to Ben.The strange mixture of sincere belief and hypocrisy of all the characters made the story intriguing, but at the same time made me a little sceptical.
I found the writing to be a bit self-consciously pretentious at times (especially the opening & closing paragraphs which could have been edited out).However, all that said, it was fairly well written, the characters (especially Ninah and James) were well developed, and the plot & setting fascinating.
I think I give everything three stars.
I think the star rating system is messed up.
I enjoyed The Rapture of Canaan.
It is however, very Oprah book club-- well written, well drawn characters, who go through a whole lot of crud.
The good thing is the crud moves along quickly in this one.
On the flip side, I wish Reynolds would have fleshed things out a bit.
I understand the main character is meant to be seen as brainwashed and naive, and that's ok, but she seems to remain naive, despite her transformation.
Also, the surrounding characters seem thin.
So, overall I enjoyed it, but found it lacking somehow.
After a middling beginning (wait, is that an etymological contradiction?), this book picked up steam, then lost some steam, then became downright steamy, then doused itself with cold lake water, then I give up on this metaphor. It was an easy read but seldom a very compelling one, partly because I found the antagonist (Grandpa Herman) unconvincing and that made the whole frame of his religious fringe community unconvincing as well. Overall: Not bad, but nothing special. Probably best suited for YA female readers.
One of the best books I have ever read! It was loving and heartbreaking and inspirational. Ninah was born into a community of holy rollers, with strict rules and regulations. As she falls in love, she begins to question the way things are done. I fell in love with Ninah and wanted her to come out whole. She's a wonderful, three dimensional character. I cried at the end, when she is finally released in her love. Beautifully written. I would highly recommend this book to anyone.
This was a really interesting book to read, and I loved that it was through the eyes of a young person, who was being forced to be something she wasn't while all the while defying it all, and becoming her own person anyway. Truly a very good book, I would recommend it to anyone looking for a good, simple, but also very deep read.
A fast read and (mostly) an engrossing one, although there are some melodramatic parts (weaving a cross? barbed wire? whut?). I was a bit sorry when Ninah fell in love, though; I could tell the rest of the story would be centred around that, and I found the beginning and its portrayal of the cult more interesting.
This was pretty good. Again, I wasn't sure if it was supposed to be "YA fiction" or not, so I gave it the benefit of the doubt. It's probably not a great grown-up book. Too heavily symbolic and ultimately unsatisfying for that, but it should be OK young adult.
More of a 3.5. Enjoyed its subtle and not-so-subtle creepiness, and that it never tiptoes around religious misogyny, but it does take an awfully long time to get where it's going. It reminded me of a favorite YA outing, The Miseducation of Cameron Post.
This is the weirdest book I have ever read, but it was ok.
Let's just say this book is very interesting. I couldn't put it down since I just kept wanting to know what twisted thing would happen next!!
Oddly enough, I loved this book. It might have been really messed up and crazy, but I think that's what made it so great for me.
(3.75) I LOVED the first half of the book. Then it started becoming too much. I felt like new elements kept getting added and added to the book to the point where I didn't want to pick up the book anymore. I thought the book could have been better if there were less crazy things going on and more of a focus on the bigger events.
The Rapture of Canaan revolves around the cult-like community of the “Church of Fire and Brimstone and God’s Almighty Baptizing Wind”.
Ninah, the granddaughter of the leader and founder of the church, becomes involved with James, the step-son of her sister.
She becomes pregnant and the community begins to unravel.
While it was somewhat interesting (as well as revolting) reading about such a brain-washed and extremist community, the story itself was unconvincing.
Ninah seems to understand the absurdity of the religious fanaticism her grandfather has created, yet the author still wants her to have some kind of spiritual experience/transformation.
Despite, Ninah and James's efforts to avoid temptation and sin, the two come together in the biblical sense, and the outcome tears their little community apart.I thought this was a very beautiful story following the trials and tribulations of not only a teenager growing up under such strict beliefs but the desires of the heart and flesh, the questioning of religious beliefs.
She goes from a timid teenage girl to a young woman who knows her heart and believes that God's love comes from more than just pain.
