https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47613.Mister_Monday
I remember picking this book up because I liked Nix's Abhorsen trilogy so much, but this one is kind of a big letdown after the greatness that was Abhorsen.
It's just a run of the mill mid-grade fantasy quest Arthurian/Christian symbolism story.
And to make matters worse, for me anyway, is that it is just so whimsical and overly descriptive.
Also, I pretty much just hate stories where the magic has no logic or rules or structure and everything is possible because magic.
It makes me twitchy and annoyed and puts me in a book-throwin' mood.
What if I don't wake up in time?") Arthur gets involved in the supernatural doings in a way that's even more accidental than it usually is in these kinds of books -- the object is quite literally put in his hand by someone he doesn't know, and after that happens, he lets us know that he's often gotten in trouble in the past for his curiosity, something that we saw no sign of until a motivation was needed.
Okay, so I was all set to love this book.
Like REALLY LOVE IT.
I picked it up a few weeks ago but had to return it to the library, but because I was so SET TO LOVE IT etc., I went out and bought my own copy to take to New Zealand.:|I just didn't believe a bit of it.
I loved the actual concepts, but it felt badly executed.
I feel like I have to justify myself with this, because it seems so universally loved.
Anyway, none of that really matters because I managed to lose the book somewhere between Te Anau and Dunedin.
It's Garth Nix. Was there ever a chance I wouldn't like it?That said, I wouldn't have read this book - let alone bought it - if not for a glowing recommendation from the great and wonderful Cillian/BB.
While on the surface a simple (if rather bizarre) adventure story, Mister Monday has a great distinction in that it is the only book i have ever read where one of the things that compels me to read the sequels was the symbolism and allegories.
If I'm right, the conflict is between Arthur and the Trustees who betrayed the Architect's trust, and so instead of being about Good and Evil it's about simple corruption and forgiveness.
It then sneaks into and possesses the jailer, manipulating him further to convince Mister Monday (of the title) into bestowing one of his keys of power - the minute hand of a clock (you can tell that clocks and Time are a big motif) onto a mortal.
The kid is still in denial about being the Chosen One, but when the Plucky Native is kidnapped/threatened, he has to step up and own his powers so that he can save his friend/lover.
If you've read any fantasy YA books in the last twenty-five years, you've seen this plot again and again.
This is Garth Nix's series for middle grade. There's a book for each day of the week, so that's quite a commitment as far as a series goes. I found it very creative, unpredictable, and fast moving with solid writing and interesting characters.--------------------Re-read to refresh my memory before continuing the series.
Within this series of books, Mister Monday introduces the world of dog faced security guards, ceramic komodo dragons that come to life, and an adventure that every child will be sorry to miss.The main character is Arthur Penhaligon, an asthmatic 12 year old boy who has an asthma attack and discovers he has been chosen to become the Rightful Heir of the House, by the conniving Mister Monday.
In the second half of the book, the reader learns, as well as Arthur, about the history of the House and the mysterious Architect.The vivid imagery and excellent description of characters and the surroundings invites young readers to share in the construction of an incredible universe.
Věc, která vypadá jako hodinová ručička.Zjevil se mu totiž pan Pondělí se svým věrným sluhou Kýchalem.
Po smrti totiž klíč dostane zase pan Pondělí.
Avšak po předání menšího Klíče začíná mít pan Pondělí podezření.
Chlapec vykřikl, ale než stačil něco udělat, nebo se ho dotkla čepel, Klíč mu z nenadání vystřelil z ruky jako šíp.
Tu hned v zápětí následovalo rachocení spršky ozubených koleček, která se vysypala za zničenou pružinou a dopadla na zem.Komisař pomalu sklopil hlavu, aby se na sebe podíval, pozvedl nezměněnou ruku, aby se dotkl hrudi, potom strnul a z koutků očí a z úst se mu vyřinul slabý čůrek stříbrné tekutiny.Bylo ticho.
I'm not sure what to say about this book.
I liked it enough that I'm planning on reading the second in the series, but I don't really know why.
It was a little bit tough to get through the first half (maybe more) but I perservered and the story seemed to grow on me.
That being said, I don't feel the author did a great job of helping the reader to identify, or even care about, the main character(s).
I guess the mysteriousness of "The Will" has me intrigued and I've liked other books by this author enough to keep going.
right now i am on page 175 when Arther had met the Will and Suzy. They almost got completly squashed when a elavator suddenly stopped! They are also getting chased by man eating dogs wearing coats and bowler hats. AWKWARD!!!!
I'm re-reading these for nostalgia. This is a great middle grade fantasy series, excellent use of the days of the week and seven deadly sins. I'm so fond <3
This book wasn't necessarily bad, it just isn't something that I usually enjoy.
While I have read some really good middle grade books, the majority of them don't appeal to me because I find it more difficult to connect to the characters.
Arthur isn't an unlikable character, but I couldn't really connect to him.
The weird world that Arthur goes to doesn't seem to be in the greatest of shape, but there wasn't really anything outright wrong with it, I think.
Suzy gets a lot more page time than most of the other characters, aside from Arthur, and she would have been a great character if her dialogue wasn't so bad.
This was a decent book, but it didn't really capture my attention.
I think listening to the audio didn't help in this case as I kept getting distracted by a million other things.
Arthur was a decent narrator and I liked him a bit since he reminded me of my younger brother with his asthma problems.
The world that Arthur falls into, was weird and strange.
Again I think this is because I had a hard time paying attention.
I liked Leaf and I was happy she tried to help Arthur when he collapsed from asthma.
At least Arthur makes allies in the other world.
While he is alone, Mister Monday and Sneezer appear out of nowhere and gift Arthur with a clock minute hand which Arthur calls the key.
They do this because they believe Arthur is going to die and they can immediately get the key back.
(Mister Monday must relinquish the key as The Will dictates but there is nothing that says he cannot take it back).
However, the key actually helps Arthur breathe and saves his life.
Thus starts a bizarre adventure with dastardly villains (Mister Monday to be exact, as well as his evil minions) and danger at every turn.
Arthur has such terrible asthma that his main ambition in life is just getting a next breath, so when a magical key is pressed into his hand and he becomes imbued with extraordinary powers, he's more than a bit nonplussed.
There's little time to ponder, however, and Arthur quickly learns how to use the key while being chased through his school by dog-faced men in suits.
All too soon Arthur is lost in a magical realm where no one and nothing is as it seems.
And Arthur himself is a wonderful, engaging main character, who immediately felt to me both realistic and likable.
All in all a good read. With the idea that there are other realms that can and do have connection to this life isn't a new idea. The way in which it is presented however is new. As Arthur finds out that sometimes you have to do the hard things in life not only for yourself but for others, he discovers his own growth.
one of my favorites ever, which derailed my moving process because i had to reread it! what a brilliant, offbeat fantasy - it truly feels magic
Had to hang on to my hat to keep up with what was happening. Very fanciful, but very fun. Quite adventurous and unique. Enjoyed the series.
An exciting fantasy adventure; can't wait to read the rest of the series!
Excellent! Not quite on the intricate levels of Sabriel etc., but as it's for younger readers that's to be expected. Looking forward to the rest of the series!
Po re-readingu mám tuhle sérii snad ještě radši než před tím :)
I didn't like any character except for Leaf, but she was only in the book for a chapter or so.Plot: 2/5 This frustrates me so much.
Like the setting, it didn't make much sense and felt almost random.
It just felt disconnected and TOLD me what was going on instead of letting me experience the story for myself.Likes: Um...Not-so-great: This book took me over a week and a half to read.
Maybe I just didn't like it because school started last week, and cut all my reading time down so it took me forever to finish.
Arthur is a boy in a new town facing his first day in a new school, but his what-to-worry-about priorities sort themselves quickly after Mister Monday pops in out of thin air and hands Arthur a minute hand-shaped key. Adventure and danger follow, and Arthur finds himself in The House, an unthinkably huge and rambling place that stands outside of time and place and where all things are recorded and filed away.Think Harry Potter as an asthmatic muggle, plopped down into Spirited Away. So, yeah, pretty good.
Mehr 3,5. Aber er hat einfach den Garth Nix-Bonus ;)Es fiel mir stellenweise schwer, die Handlung zu verstehen, weil einfach so viele Wörter drin vorkamen, die mir absolut fremd waren - leo.org ist ejn guter Freund ;)Doch abgesehen davon war die Handlung spannend und es gibt einen fiesen letzten Satz, bei dem ich mir nur dachte: eigentlich war das jetzt so klar und darüber hab ich mich eh gewundert :D
This book started off really well but became less interesting as it went along. It seemed to be leaning towards a children's book as opposed to being young adult and some of the dialogue in particular reflected this. I must admit to skimming some of Arthur's very long journey to find the hour key and I found the conclusion when it eventually arrived to be less than satisfying. An okay read but I will not be rushing out to get the sequel.
خوب بود ولی تصمیمی به خوندن جلد های بعدش رو ندارم.و به نظرم این کتاب برای تا ۱۵ ساله ها مناسب میباشد.امتیازم به این کتاب ۳.۵ هستش
I'm going to be honest I was more than a little dissapointed with this book, but mostly I think I was just very confused for most of the time.
The main character is Arthur, a boy who gets dragged into a situation he knows nothing about and has to go on a dangerous mission to find out what's going on.
Arthur is a very strange character who gets pulled into something he knows little to nothing about.
The storyline was complex and confusing to me pretty much all of the way through.
let's see.
The fact that I feel like I cannot remember, understand, or explain all of the details about what is going on is probably what makes this lose a star.
It's, at times, unnecessarily complicated for a basic sort of plot line: loser kid with no friends is granted powers and has to save the world.
Or two, as the case may be.
It's short, so I will definately give it at least one more book before I decide how I really feel about it.
I'm most looking forward to Arthur's almost friends, Leaf and Ed.
But Arthur doesn’t die like he’s supposed to, and when the people around him start dropping from a mysterious “sleepy plague” he must venture into the strange world of the House to find out what on earth is going on.Mister Monday is the first part in a seven part series following Arthur’s adventures in the world created by the Architect.
The first few chapters were a little slow, but once Arthur had decided he had to get to the House that only he can see, the action is almost non-stop throughout the rest of the book.Garth Nix loves to describe everything in detail, often through dialogue between characters.
I read this book in 2003 and kept up with the series up until Superior Saturday.
I remember this series being dark and metaphysical.
I also remember being really impressed with Garth Nix's ability to create such interesting and intricate universe(s) along with a hierarchy of time and space governed by a type of Feudalism.
I adore Garth Nix and I'm quite at home in his metaphysical reimaginings of how the universe works.The second time reading this felt like revisiting a forgotten friend.
I put this series right up there with Pullman's His Dark Materials trilogy.
