https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36336078-call-me-by-your-name
“He came. He left. Nothing else had changed. I had not changed. The world hadn't changed. Yet nothing would be the same. All that remains is dreammaking and strange remembrance.” I should probably issue a warning that this is a book I usually wouldn't like. I think. A summer romance up to its neck in purple prose and wandering introspection sounds like a nightmare. And yet, there was something so beautiful, awful, intoxicating and sad about Call Me by Your Name. Maybe I like it because - and I
It's not a spoiler to say this isn't that kind of story; if you're reading it for the warm fuzzies then you're going to be disappointed.It is about seventeen-year-old Elio, who falls into a deep romantic and sexual obsession with the twenty-four year-old Oliver when the latter becomes a summer guest at Elio's parents' Italian villa.
I can feel my cold heart melting just thinking about it.We stay inside Elio's mind as he fantasizes romantically and sexually about Oliver.
It might not be my usual choice of book, but I think Call Me by Your Name is one that will stay with me.
I have been verbally spanked on GR before for reviewing movies so I won't go on and on, but I will say that it's a truly beautiful film.
Updating again to say that I just finished listening to the audio version narrated by Armie Hammer.
I've put off writing this review for far too long because I'm afraid I won't do the book justice.
I think any gay man will see his young self in the protagonist.So, in summary, read this book!Updating to say Armie Hammer is playing Oliver in the movie.
[Sufjan Stevens playing softly in the distance]
and like all my public mistakes, erasing the evidence of it won't erase the consequences.it stays.as much to remind me how it happened as to accept that it did at all.little intimacies.of the many, many aspects of this book that resonated with us, one in particular was the basis of an interesting exchange between me and author santino hassell.
they can't hide the panic or the revulsionSH: yesJAG: and it looks like thatSH: yesJAG: because straight dudes can feel warm affection for you too, obviously.
i wonder if it happens to every queer personSH: i wonder the same thingJAG: like imagine you're a girl, you have your best girl friends, going to the bathroom together, secrets, sharing lipstick...SH: yeahJAG: little intimacies.
But. I agree with whoever likens Aciman's approach to Proust's (which is probably everybody who has read both Aciman and Proust.) This is not a Gay Coming of Age Novel, at all; it's an elegy for desire, for memory itself; and it manages to visit that interior terrain of longing most notably visited by A LA RECHERCHE DU TEMPS PERDU, without begging a side-by-side comparison.
I don't know that I've ever read a book so relentlessly accurate in its detailing of each precise doubt and hope, but mostly doubt, that colors any interaction or lack of interaction with the object of one's desire.
“If I could have him like this in my dreams every night of my life, I'd stake my entire life on dreams and be done with the rest.” This book has been on my to-read list for a few years, but now that the film is set to be released, I believed it was time to get going and pick it up once and for all.
Longing and sexual frustration dominated most of the novel, but I was looking for dramatic heartbreak and high emotions.
So maybe then the book's more like a probe, yes, a very discomfiting probe, making a fuller assessment of the wreckage.
The book is also a final report of the survey, as such it reminds us of the universality of our suffering.
I speak here of the novel’s sheer emotional power.For most of the novel the narrative is the first-person thoughts, fantasies, worries, shames and fears of Elio in the summer of his 17th year.
The boy’s father is an academic and Oliver, 24, is a young American colleague exchanging some brief work as amanuensis for room and board while finishing his own manuscript.
4.5 starsFue un libro encantador. Y cada que lo proceso más, me gusta MÁS. Creo que la primer lectura del año estará en mis mejores lecturas del año.Y TODAVÍA NO VEO LA PELÍCULA PORQUE LA QUIERO VER EN EL CINE. HASTA CUÁNDO, MÉXICO, HASTA CUÁNDO.
How wonderful it is when you find a forever book.We're all Elio, aren't we?
2.5 starsAs a gay man, I feel happy seeing queer intimacies receive more acceptance and popularity, as evidenced by this book's film adaptation this year.
And while I understand that the book aims to portray infatuation, I found myself bored at times with Elio's obsession with Oliver.
I wish we had received more from these characters: more dialogue, more development, and more insight into their desire for one another.Overall, an okay book that I am curious to see as a film, as I predict the movie may better portray the emotions of the book through lush and/or lustful visuals.
Gorgeous prose elicits vivid emotions .....This is a beautiful coming of age novel....
Elio and his family are also Jewish - but most Jews didn’t flaunt their Star of David for anyone to see ....Elio begins to jog with Oliver ...and swim .....( oh and the descriptions are breathtaking)...and soon Elio is aching to touch Oliver’s skin - every inch of him.
“But I loved the fear— if fear it really was— and this they didn’t know, my ancestors.
It was the underside of fear I loved, like the smoothest wool found on the underbelly of the coarsest sheep.
Mira, no os voy a decir nada ni voy a leer otras reseñas porque este libro es demasiado especial y no merece ser arruinado por ningún tipo de juicio enrevesado de que si el argumento, si el narrador o si patatín y patatán. Mi consejo: leedlo, vivirlo, sentidlo, y que cada uno viva su propia experiencia con él positiva o negativa. Ea.
Tôi khóc khi thấy Elio khóc, khi cậu dụi đầu vào lòng Oliver mà hỏi anh rằng liệu cậu có bệnh hoạn quá không, khi toàn làm những chuyện kỳ dị cốt chỉ để có anh gần bên, gần hơn nữa; để thỏa mãn cái cơn thèm khát Oliver, thỏa mãn nỗi ám ảnh khát khao của một chàng trai đang lớn dần lên cùng với những cảm xúc mới mẻ mà dữ dội của mình.Cả Timothée Chalamet và Armie Hammer đều là trai thẳng (Armie Hammer thì đã có vợ con đề huề rồi cơ ^^), vậy mà khi xem phim, đố ai biết được họ không phải là gay, vì chemistry của họ trên màn ảnh quá tuyệt; những cảnh hai nhân vật ôm ấp nhau cứ tự nhiên và tình cảm vô cùng.
This is a beautifully written story of passion, obsession, and possibly love.It's told primarily in the voice of a highly intelligent 17 year old boy living in the Italian Riviera with his family.
The book is about the obsession the narrator, Elio, has for a young professor named Oliver (one of the writers staying for the summer).
I could picture it vividly, possible because I visited the region in the summer of 2013, but primarily because of the writing.Out of the three themes I listed above, I think the primary one is obsession which is why I'm not sure if I consider this a love story.
The first movie we watched was about a creepy little 12 or 13 year old kid who stole a piece of raw liver from his mother's kitchen and proceeded to have relations with it.
This book would not have been palatable to my grandmother for that reason, and is not for everyone.I, on the other hand, have no religious or cultural bias against stories that explore sexual relations between any consenting adults.
The peach scene on page 147 is where I closed the book and declared again, “I'll be at the car.
5+Stars.One of my top reads this year,without any doubt.I read this weeks ago and still can't find the words to express how much I loved it.All I can say is,-it's beautiful,-it made me happy,-it made me sad,-it just made me Feel,so many emotions.-the writing is just stunning.Read Nick's review,because he's said it perfectly.Favourite quotes,  Let summer never end, let him never go away, let the music on perpetual replay play forever, I’m asking for very little, and I swear I’ll ask for nothing m
5+Stars.One of my top reads this year,without any doubt.I read this weeks ago and still can't find the words to express how much I loved it.All I can say is,-it's beautiful,-it made me happy,-it made me sad,-it just made me Feel,so many emotions.-the writing is just stunning.Read Nick's review,because he's said it perfectly.Favourite quotes,
For the day will come soon enough when I’ll look up and you’ll no longer be there.“Call me by your name and I’ll call you by mine,” which I’d never done in my life before and which, as soon as I said my own name as though it were his, took me to a realm I never shared with anyone in my life before, or since.
i prefer my books to have some sort of consistent plot/action to follow, but the writing, the way in which elio expressed himself, totally made up for it.
honestly, just read this:‘and on that evening when we grow older still we will speak about these two young men as though they were two strangers we met on the train and whom we admire and want to help along.
for me, the writing took young obsession and infatuation and elevated those feelings to poetic desire and endearment.
which is exactly what you want from a book like this.
And at the same time, raw and real.
The ending left me with my heart shattered into million pieces.
I swear guys, I'm still collecting those pieces.
I mean it is not only about a love story.
It is about the choices we make in our lives and the result of those choices.
The results that affect a lot of people at once.
The most stunning message the story left me with is that people fall in love with the souls.
So real.So beautiful.So raw.Πάω να μαζέψω τα σπασμένα κομμάτια της καρδιάς μου...Καταπληκτικό βιβλίο!
“ We are not written for one instrument alone. ” Do you remember longing for something, someone (“Intoxicated rapture” and “The twisted skein of desire”), while worrying about the implications? Fear of rejection - and of acceptance? I do.This is an achingly slow, beautiful, microscopic analysis of the glittering facets of identity. They’re painfully and joyously revealed during the fluctuating and confusing experiences of late adolescence. Hunger and fear. “I loved the fear.” Desire and shame. S
Photo: fortune cookie “To truly find yourself you should play hide and seek alone.”Unity“Having someone’s body to touch and being that someone we’re longing to touch are one and the same, just opposite banks on a river that passes from us to them… This perpetual circuit where the chambers of the heart, like the trapdoors of desire, and the wormholes of time, and the false-bottomed drawer we call identity share a beguiling logic according to which the shortest distance between real life and the life unlived, between who we are and what we want, is a twisted staircase designed with the impish cruelty of MC Escher.”The deepest intimacy of all is when two become one, where each can call the other by caller’s name.“Is it your body that I want… or do I want to slip into it and own it as if it were my own?”Where that one becomes many: brother, friend, father, son, husband, lover, self.
Pero no el amor idílico de los felices por siempre jamás, sino de esos amores que trascienden el tiempo, rompen barreras, sacan sonrisas y lágrimas, cambian tu mundo y, aún así, nunca estarán completos del todo.
Llámame Por Tu Nombre es de ese tipo de libros cuyo final no es lo más importante, sino todo el viaje emocional que viven Elio y Oliver a lo largo de un verano, de una vida.
Aciman narra todo de una manera tan real y tan ingenua que nos da igual lo parsimonioso de la historia, pues disfrutamos de cada pensamiento y queremos que la pequeña burbuja de felicidad italiana que viven Elio y Oliver dure para siempre.
I found this novel painfully slow going at times. There was too much introspection, too little dialogue. The young grad student and the 17-year-old narrator annoyed me with their wishy-washy feelings and emotions. I craved more intensity and passion. Despite its flaws, I was gradually swept away by the lovely writing, the setting, and growing intimacy between the two main characters. Knowing early on these two young men were not destined to remain together did not prevent me from being deeply moved by the story’s poignant conclusion.
We all remember my review of Fates and Furies, and I think most of us can agree that beautiful writing can't save EVERYTHING.Let's begin.So, the basic premise of this book is that a seventeen-year-old's family hosts an intellectual for six weeks every summer because his father is a famous professor.
Rarely do I see a book where a 17-year-old girl who actually knows what she's doing, has sexual agency, isn't a virgin, is competent and on equal footing, willingly and with eyes open enters into a relationship with an older man.
LISTEN I WAS JOKING ABOUT REVIEWING THIS WITH JUST A "IT WAS PEACHY" BUT I HONESTLY CAN NOT WITH THIS BOOKmy heart is bleeding i am offended it was too much it was so beautifully bittersweet and heartbreaking i am speechless why is it like this how DARE one day i might write an actual more eloquent review of this but until thenlet me cry my gay tears in peace
Me: This isn't too bad, a little boring and some questionable things but not that badMe: *Reads the peach scene*Me: I am... disgusted Review also on my blog • Twitter • BookstagramRep: m/m romance, Jewish mc, bi mcContent warnings: sexual content, misuse of peaches I have a weird experience with Call Me By Your Name. I saw a YouTuber recommend it in 2015 and I wasn't reading at the time but I did look it up and it sat on my Goodreads TBR for a while. Then I found interest in it again, and I hea
Me: This isn't too bad, a little boring and some questionable things but not that badMe: *Reads the peach scene*Me: I am...
And that's all I took in because this writing spent more time on atmosphere then actually telling a story.
At times, the book was just excessively boring.
At times, Oliver was a little creepy.
If you don't want to know what the scene is, then stop here and go read another book.Anyway, what happened in the scene was the Elio masturbated into a peach.
The writing felt like it kept me at arms length, and I am already forgetting what happened in this book.
When Oliver, a 24-years old university scholar comes to stay with Professor Perlman who was to oversee his manuscript before it went into publishing, the Professor’s 17-years old son, Elio, begins experiencing hitherto unknown sensations inside him.
I began to appreciate the colossal damage Elio was knowingly inflicting upon himself for unearthing (and preserving) the truth of his heart.
I began to appreciate the immense dignity Oliver was granting to their relationship by stitching himself up so Elio could breathe (and blossom).
In my place, most parents would hope the whole thing goes away, or pray that their sons land on their feet soon enough.
"He was my secret conduit to myself - like a catalyst that allows us to become who we are, the foreign body, the pacer, the graft, the patch that sends all the right impulses, the steel pin that keeps the soldier's bone together, the other man's heart that makes us more us than we were before the transplant."I saw someone call this book 'maddening', I think I'd like to second that.
Things happen, and are described in this book, that should warrant a NSFW warning, but as much as they might appear to have a sexual nature, they're much more about intimacy, about trusting someone enough to laying yourself completely bare in front of them.
I don't think I've ever came across a writer who can so poignantly entice you into viewing the transition of two character's lives."But before he'd stepped out of the cab and walked into our home, it would never have seemed remotely possible that someone so thoroughly okay with himself might want me to share his body as much as I ached to yield up mine."I tried to highlight certain phrases or chop up paragraphs but most of the time I ended up highlighting near to half a page because I just couldn't leave anything out.
I saw the movie first. I loved it with all my heart. The book came later. I loved it too, just a little bit more. I’d never heard anyone use “later” to say goodbye before. It sounded harsh, curt, and dismissive, spoken with the veiled indifference of people who may not care to see or hear from you again. Later. A simple word. Before I read this book, I didn't think I would be looking at peaches differently later. I didn't think that later, I would sound like a thirteen year old when I say "I shi
Before I read this book, I didn't think I would be looking at peaches differently later.
I didn't think that later, I would sound like a thirteen year old when I say "I ship them hard", but it is what it is.
Most of all, I didn't think that later could mean so much.
A joy that I realised later was bittersweet.
Later, Elio likes boys too.
Like Elio, I keep hoping for a later.
The tone is of an almost breathless desperation and longing that is akin to what Elio feels all the time.
After hearing endless acclaim for the audio version of this book, and wanting to read the book before seeing the film, I finally used an Audible credit for this.
Everyone was right!
You can read more about the comments about the narrator's voice here, but know he plays Oliver in the film, the older professor staying with Elio's family for the summer.Elio is in his teens and starting to explore his sexuality.
In a very Catholic country, he is Jewish, and is having feelings for Oliver and doesn't know what to do about them.
Oh, por Dios, qué maravilla! Estoy sin palabras. Es imposible hablar cuando los sentimientos son infinitamente superiores a las letras.
