https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/564037.My_Life
This autobiography by Isadora Duncan reads like a work of fiction.
What a remarkable woman she was and what a remarkable life she lived.
She was born in California in 1877, but she spent most of her life and career in Europe and Russia.
By 1910 she was world famous with several dance schools across Europe.
She was the mother of modern dance and she was a shooting star that streaked across the sky of the world she lived in.
She died tragically in Paris at age 50 in a car accident, when the long scarf she was wearing got tangled in the spokes of the wheel of the open car she was in.

More importantly, I’m trying to figure out if I would have liked this person if I met her in real life.
Not surprising, given that she declares that she’s been hoping for a happy ending in life via the avenue of a love affair, and she lost her young children.
Comments such as “I have met many great artists and intelligent and so-called successful people in my life, but never one who could be called a happy being, although some may have made a very good bluff at it.
مقضية حياتها تنقلات بين اوروبا .. ونجاحها دايما يليه فشل .. ورصيدها فى البنك يصبح صفر .. ومع كل جولة تقابل شخص تقع فى غرامة لاول مرة ... وكلهم لاول مرة سبحان الله 540 صفحة كلهم على نفس المنوال .. اول صفحة ركب القطار واخر صفحة نزل من القطار وحشى النص ب توووت
I knew nothing about Isadora Duncan, the highly creative dancer, before I picked up a copy of her charming autobiography.
It is only because I had recently discovered that she had spent some time in Albania, a country that fascinates me and about which I have written, that I decided to read this book.The book was highly enjoyable.
She married the Russian poet Essenin briefly, but that part of her life is not recorded in her book.As for Albania, there are only a few pages dedicated to her brief time there.
The autobiography has gripped me sufficiently to make me want to read a good biography of Isadora.
In cases like these, memoirs of people who exceed life, what can be said about their writing when it's all about their lives?
Does Duncan write well?
She never claims to, in fact the opposite.
Is her narrative well-crafted?
Hardly, and she admits as much.
So what I'd be rating here is her life rather than how she tells it, and that is really unratable because it exceeds all bounds of norms, bounds, the typical vicissitudes.
I couldn't help but read her as a character, a Mme. Bovary meets some George Sandian heroine, with a mix of Thomas Hardy.
Isadora is one of my heroes. She was so far ahead of her time.

amazon.com/author/sergiupobereznicI know that I am probably going to commit Isadora Duncan sacrilege with this review, so before I begin, and for the record, I would like to state that the world is indebted and grateful for what Isadora Duncan achieved in her lifetime and what she stands for as an artist in the dance world.
There were times I wondered if I were reading some fictional, anachronistic, olde-worlde Dickensian style melodrama with a martyred, often penurious and severely misunderstood heroin at the helm of a dancing career that was always on the precipitous edge of celebrity.
She never seems to speak about those times with understanding.Many people have said that she wasn’t given enough credit for what she accomplished.

She left her home in San Francisco with her entire family and no money, hoping she could find someone in show business to understand what she wanted to bring to the stage.
She always seemed to have a nice run, collect her money, spend it on one idea or another until she was broke and then sign on for a new engagement, over and over throughout her entire life.
She played to sold-out houses throughout Europe and Russia and even made her way back to the USA, but always seemed to want more than they were willing to give.
She understood that one of the highest callings one can have in this life is art and that it is a spiritual pursuit—and she created some of the most intelligent writing about dance that I’ve ever read.I felt a little defensive every time she criticized ballet, since academic ballet is the vocabulary that I speak, but I understand that at the time she was writing ballet had become more about spectacle than spirit.
I love ballet, however, and know that it carries an extremely strong emotional and spiritual component, a point on which I don’t believe Duncan would agree.Honestly, part of me wondered what Duncan’s dance actually looked like; I couldn’t help but think that it might lack skill and seem, I don’t know, juvenile (and that’s where my bias toward ballet asserts itself).
I thought it was interesting coming from her point of view, however it was extremely self-aggrandizing and showed that she had little insight into her own psyche. I would like to read other books about her to get a fuller picture of both the good and bad aspects of her character. The funny thing is, she does present her self as someone so flighty that she would get her scarf caught under the wheel of a car and die.
DisappointingThe life of Isadora Duncan was undoubtedly worth writing about, but she was not the one to do it. Her turgid writing style and overblown dramatics make the autobiography almost unreadable. She had a great deal of sadness end reason for heartbreak but suffered excruciating highs and lows that may well have been part of her nature, and are exhausting to follow.
My first edition 1928 copy of this book sprouted post-its in every direction as I researched my graphic biography of Isadora. Isadora's version of events is perhaps a little puffed up, perhaps not all written by her own hand, but it's still the closest you can get to this daredevil of a woman. When I found this memoir on my grandmother's shelf, Isadora became my first feminist heroine.
Какое же счастье с раннего детства знать своё призвание и иметь достаточно упорства и такую непоколебимую веру в себя, чтобы никто и ничто не сбило с пути. Цена, правда, тоже огромна. Зато какая жизнь!
By all accounts, her name should go down in the annals of history as she was a visionary of the Arts who broken the shackles of tradition with her expressive dance form.
When Duncan discourses on dance, her words come to life and you can almost picture her fluid, easy, sensuous and lithe body expressing all that is beauty and light.
Duncan had a true passion and love for dance and it is admirable that she wished to share her gift with the world, not for money or fame but simply because she wanted to enrich the lives of people all over the world.
I loved this book because it told Her-Story!!!She takes us on a ride into her world of being free.
Ms Duncan died tragically but lived vicariously thrilling !!!She has been called the 'Mother of Modern Dance'.
She was inflenced by the classics, especially Greek Myth, where she danced in grecian tunics.
She had sexual escapades in the early 1900's that people shunned but today is the norm.
She refused to be involved in anything that constricted her individuality!!!I totally felt her character and I suggest anyone who is a wildchild like myself to read this book, you will feel her spirit also!!!
Not a modest bone in the body of the mother of modern dance. Interesting life--if half of it is true--but so mellow-dramatic and self indulgent it was hard to actually want to keep reading. But, when all is said and done she is definitely a rock star, and I am glad I finished it.
How good? So good. A completely inspiring woman who led a completely inspiring life.
I laughed a couple of times and could relate to some of her thoughts, but overall for some reason I found it a little self-absorbed.
Title edited to "My Life: Shallow, Selfish, and Destructive."
Wow, what a fascinating woman and she writes beautifully. I am not really even a fan of her dancing but her story is fantastic. I recommend it as an interesting biography.
Duncan wasn't a writer, but her autobiography nonetheless contains many beautiful thoughts, and fleshes out the thinking and experiences of a very inspirational trailblazer.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
سيرة ذاتية للراقصة الأمريكية ايزادورا دونكان التي كانت شغوفة للرقص منذ صغرها و مستقلة و قوية الشخصية ، اسست نوعاً جديداً من الرقص لم يكن معروفاً في اوائل القرن العشرين ، حلمت منذ صغرها بتأسيس مدرسة رقص للأطفال و استطاعت بعد سنوات أن تحقق حلمها رغم العقبات و الأزمات المالية التي مرت بها ، لم يقدرها المجتمع الأمريكي الذي كان شغوفاً برقص البالية فقررت الرحيل لأوروبا و وجدت الترحيب و التقدير، عانت من مآسي كارثية و استمرت رغم ذلك بتقديم فنها للعالم ، سيرتها ملهمة و ثرية بالمعلومات اسلوبها في السرد جميل و بسيط ، اصرارها على موقفها رغم معارضة البعض يبين مدى إيمانها بأن ماتقوم به سيحدث ثورة في المستقبل .

Isadora Duncan était une femme forte, révolutionnaire, végétarienne, féministe avant l'heure et sure d'elle. J'ai adoré découvrir sa vie après dans cette autobiographie si poétique. La conclusion de l'ouvrage est très belle bien que quelques années avant sa mort. Elle finira par se marier, pourtant contre cette idée toute sa vie. J'aurais aimé avoir son ressenti sur cette expérience ainsi que sur ses quelques années en Russie.
What a life story!!!Some people cram twenty lives into one, and Isadora Duncan was certainly one of them. What an extraordinary soul she was, what a journey she had. Thoroughly enjoyable and inspiring!
الرقص تعبر عنه الروح اكثر من الجسد ،، سيرة ذاتيه جميله عن الاصرار والعيش كما يريد القلب ليس كما يريد العالم ،، عن كسر القيود في سبيل النجاح وترك المعتقدات لتحقيق السعادة،،ولكنني شعرت ان الاحداث ذاتها تتكرر من فقر لسفر لفشل لنجاح ،، مما جعلني اتملل لانتهي من الكتاب
