https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126041.An_Incomplete_Education
I really liked this book.Its for those of us who read lots of books written in the 18th and 19th century (Jane Austin fans take note)It answers those gaps in our education which come up when you want to know the differnce between a Vicar, Rector and Parson.
Why do they have Counts in Europe, but Earls in England?
Why is the wife of an Earl a Countess?
The book is very easy to read.
If nothing else, this is a wonderful and insightful resource book to answer those nagging questions that creep up in our daily readings.
This is hilarious! I swear, I didn't know anyone could write such a comparative reference book that would make me laugh so hard that Cheerios almost came out of my nose.How's that for a visual?Highly recommended...if you have a witty sense of humor.
Great for becoming an intellectual, or at least faking it very convincingly. It fills in those gaps you missed while throwing paper airplanes at your peers and then takes you beyond what most schools ever offered. Cleverly written and sure to make you laugh.
Half the fun of this book is arguing (admittedly a one-sided argument) with the authors about what's been included and what hasn't. Also, frankly, the smug satisfaction you get when you already know something that's presented in the book as arcane knowledge that needs careful explanation. Once you get over these tawdry pleasures and settle down to reading, however, you get what you came for: a wonderful compendium of lore in many fields, a great way to brush up your Shakespeare and everything else, and a good way to fall asleep reading.....
if i had to recommend only ONE book that would sit beside my bed.... everything you should know - about every subject imaginable. don't expect to be able to chat about Hegel with a scholar, but you will know the basics of the major world religions, be able to tell the differences between the Odyssey and the Illiad, and read about major Supreme Court cases... every time i open it up i learn something new... or something that i forgot already...
I actually read this enormous reference book, and I tried to learn something from it, but the main thing I learned was thatI should've paid attention in school.
An Incomplete Education is a bit like Cliff Notes for Everything.
I picked this up in the bargain rack at my local Borders.
It reads easily with a voice as playful as it is pedantic as it covers a range of topics (differences of the major religions, art movements you ought to be aware of, the science you snoozed through, geography of 19th century literature, etc.).
If you feel you missed out on certain topics in the classroom or the lecture hall, it's a great pick up.
It's a great one just to pick through as you please.
Heck of an informative book, and the third best "Hidden Faction" books I've ever read (the best by far being "5 People Who Died During Sex" and the second best being, "An Underground Education"). It does exactly what it suggests it will do; give you mounds of information that have loose strings to subjects that you think you know at least a bit about. Definitely worth picking up, though if you're like me and prefer the seedy underbelly of hidden faction, the other suggestions might better serve you.
Co-written by a Smithie (yay!), it is an incredibly comprehensive overview of just about everything, divided into the categories of: American Studies, Art, Economics, Film, Literature, Music, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Religion, Science, World History, and a bonus Lexicon.
It's probably much better to have this around as a reference book, but don't let that stop you from doing a thorough first reading!
The music chapter included a great introduction to opera.
Definitely made me feel smarter, and stronger, because it's about a ten pound book.
Probably the best free-in-a-curbside-box book I've ever owned.
Again: presented with humor and charm.
I read this book twice, in a way.
First off I bounced around looking for the most entertaining tidbits, then I fell in love with it so thoroughly that I read it cover-to-cover.
If you consider yourself a nerd in any way shape or form, I suspect you'll enjoy this book.
Even if you've already heard about all 3,684 Things, you'll likely find these authors present them in a more charming manner than you've ever before encountered.
I loved this book!
Broken into manageable sections with just about every topic you'd want to know more about, this massive tome of a book is full of interesting tidbits as well as the facts everyone should know.
The writing is conversational, without being dumbed down, and the information is well-chosen.I read it precisely the way they don't recommend reading it: straight through, page 1 to page 679.
I actually thought it was a fabulous read that way, but was content to devote myself to no other books while reading this -- and taking my time so that some of this actually sunk in.
The content is considerably outdated, there is far too much emphasis on American culture, and it simply was not that interesting.It's an interesting browse if you want to figure out what you don't know, but drop it once you find a subject and look up a more comprehensive book on that field.I also knew most of the information contained in the science section from my High School and College education... =/
Nevertheless, this chapter was okay, I managed to learn some new things.Philosophy: I was first exposed to Philosophy in MITx's Introduction to Philosophy, and I enjoyed the course a lot.
Zakat, the fourth pillar - not the fifth as this book claims - is sort of like a tax that wealthy people have to pay.
Forget about the rest of the world and their history, those billions of people are irrelevant.All in all, it was an okay book, because I did learn a few things from it, after all.
I read this book after college and always find it an interesting book to flip through for interesting things we all "should know".
This book would give you a tour of authors from the West in Liberal arts. It's a repertoire of facts.Basically an outline of Western Liberal education. I appreciated Literary and Poetry chapters. I never took literature or poetry classes. I would recommend this to high-schoolers or someone who skipped education. Deus Vult, Gottfried
(This review is of the first edition)This is a great book for reminding the reader of the things they learned in high school and college.
Some sections give short shrift to various subject areas and really don't give the reader enough information at all.
However, most chapters give you exactly enough to get the basics of a subject down -- but they are the basics.
Overall, I recommend this book highly for anyone who wants to learn the basics of some subject they do not know or remember the subjects they have forgotten years out of school.
A big, chunky thick book that looks intimidating.
the type is big.
This is a tongue in cheek, irreverent, humorous attempt to provide an abbreviated college education.
It reads like a cross between Cliff Notes and MAD Magazine.
A great refresher course, this book is filled with tidbits, trivia and anecdotes.
It took me 3 months to read through this book but then it is meant to be digested in small doses.
Nicely organized like a college curriculum, you can skip the stuff you have absolutely no interest in, but given the entertaining style of this book, you might want to read it anyway.
As with many Cliff Notes-type books of this sort, this book excels in its breadth, but lacks in its depth.
And the book is definitely made for browsing as there is much diverse knowledge contained therein and it is unlikely that one would be interested in every single subject matter.
At its best, the book acts as a sampler for several books and ideas ranging from history and ideology to literature and science that one may have heard of but never had time to delve into.
It is also a book that one completes over time in small chunks rather than hunkering down and reading over several continuous hours.

It's kind of like a textbook, but written my people who know about pretty much everything and have a sense of humor.
It covers things like american studies (12 supreme court decisions worth knowing by name) art history (six -ism's, one -ijl, and Dada), economics (Now, what, exactly, is exonomics, and what do economists do, again?), film (remedial watching for the baby-boom generation), literature (guess who's coming to dinner?
Twelve ficitonal characters with whom you should have at least a nodding acquaintance), music (eleven arias to sing in the shower), religion (bible baedeker: a mercifully brief who-what-and-where guide to the holy land), science (two trendy theories that may revolutionize our worldview--or may not make much difference at all), and more.

If my college professors were half this entertaining I would have retained a lot more (and maybe wouldn't have had to read this)!
Also of great interest were discussions contrasting the major religions, the various versions of the Bible and some discussions on grammar and word and literary abbreviation useage.
Authors combine wittiness (is that a word?) and a little bit of mockery in most essays.
Sections on music composers and political science were of little interest to me--that being my shortcoming, not the book's.
Probably the best "text book-like" book I have read.
I like nothing more than making myself a little smarter everyday...ok I probably like making myself look a little smarter everyday. This book is an excellent tool for that. Even if most of it zooms right through your ears, some of it will hang on, and you'll suddenly remember how to correctly pronounce flaccid (it's FLAK-sid by the way)one day and pat your self on the back.I especially enjoyed the Lexicon chapter and the Literature chapters. Those not super-familiar with the sciences will like the breakdown of all the "important" theories.
If I were a computer and my hard drive was full, making it impossible to store new information, I would have this book on a back up disk.
It is the book that I wish I could carry around in my purse and casually take out when someone brings up an obscure topic of conversation that I really do know something about, but can't form the right words.
This book is excellent in showing you all the things you know, but forgot you knew, and a few other interesting things you really hope you can remember so you sound smart the next time you are having a conversation with someone that intimidates you.
I keaned So much............. The title 3,684 things you should have learned but didn't, thats true.Ihave learned abot some of my faves, History, American Lit 101, Art History, Economics, film, more literature, music, philosophy, political science, and now I am reading abot one of my favorites, Psychology.I planned to double major, but w/all that was going on in my life, I did not. So next term I am already signed up for Psychology classes.I cannot wait!
bought for my sister as 08 xmas present since she's the history/politics personstarted flipping through/scanning/reading before I wrapped itwent and returned Alyssa's hokey sci-fi book I bought for her 08 xmas gift and got her this book alsothen after xmas, I bought copy for myselfthat's how much i liked itcan't read through all at once; treat it like a reference book; read something in the news? want some background info check if it's in this book.....
While an alternate title for this book could be either "Pretension 101" or "Crib Notes for Cocktail Parties", I found this book highly readable and very entertaining when I read it ten years ago. I still pick it up from time to time for reference and a chuckle. All college freshmen should read this book.
Twenty years later, the idea was reborn in The Intellectual Devotional: Revive Your Mind, Complete Your Education, and Roam Confidently with the Cultured Class.
This book is a great review at times or introduction at others to what one did or did not learn in high school and college. I set a goal to read 10 pages a day (didn't want to overload my brain!), and I have to admit I learned a lot. At the same time, to complete my incomplete education, I may have to read this again. So much knowledge to absorb on a first reading.
Look. I know that some people would say the knowledge in this book must know. But in my life, at current, it is not for the most part. Well written if you are into the kind of things they are talking about. I did not make it to the end of the book and I skipped parts because they held no interest for me.
