https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4703581-the-city-the-city
The central dilemma: when a murder is committed in one city, and the body is dumped in the other, how do the detectives investigate the crime without violating the taboos of their society?The first third of the book (and a brief coda at the end) are filled with symbolic resonance.
Unfortunately, however, the mystery itself is conventional, the action predictable, and the murderer easily guessed.
the setting continues to resonate long after the book is completed, for it has much to say to us about the uneasy compromises we make in a complex urban environment.
"We are all philosophers here where I am, and we debate among many other things the question of where it is that we live."But the mystery plot, albeit engaging and interesting, feels just as an excuse to introduce the reader to the fascinating world of quasi-Eastern European twin cities of Beszél and Ul Qoma.
Simply seeing and acknowledging someone from the other city - who can be within inches of you on the same street, on the same sidewalk, but yet in another country - is the ultimate crime, the breach.And it is this semi-willing separation between Beszél and Ul Qoma that brings out the overarching themes of this book.
It's my first encounter with China Mieville and I'm very intrigued to read more.
What a mind bending story.
But the way Mieville presents the mysteries and the what-the-hell-is-happening-here is so authentic.
It's written from the perspective of the main character - and he is not explaining himself to the reader.It didn't take long for me to get hooked on the story and there wasn't a moment of slowness in it for me.
I'm looking forward to read more of his books.
AN AMAZING, EARTH-SHATTERING MAKE UP SEXUAL READING EXPERIENCE!! 6.0 stars. We all know that relationships have there ups and downs and that spats are going to happen even to the strongest of them. Well a few months ago, after having a couple of incredible years with China Mieville’s books, (i.e., Perdido Street Station and The Scar and ), both of which are among my ALL TIME FAVORITES...suddenly turmoil. The cause of the turmoil was Un Lun Dun, which I just did not like and thought was UGH-LAME-
Well a few months ago, after having a couple of incredible years with China Mieville’s books, (i.e., Perdido Street Station and The Scar and ), both of which are among my ALL TIME FAVORITES...suddenly turmoil.
To acknowledge or “see” someone from another city is the single worst taboo in both cities (more so even than murder) and is referred to as “breach.” I know, kinda hurts the head, but believe me when I say that CM does such an amazing job with the story that after the first 75 to 100 pages you are completely immersed in the world and it actually makes sense.
Five: Plot/Pacing has been the one area where even my favorite CM stories sometimes fall a little short.
The setting of the book is in two separate cities existing within the same geographical ("grosstopical") area.
There's very little exposition; we're thrown into this world, having it explained in bits and pieces through the eyes of our narrator.
in his creation of this fascinating world (view spoiler)[which is really just a different take on our own bizarre world- there are plenty of examples of "grosstopical separation" throughout history...
Is the world ridiculously stupid or immediately believable?
The true main characters of the story are the Cities themselves and they shine.
I am throwing the towel at 35%.
I thought is was only because my English is not my first language (although i don't usually have problems) but i read complains by native speakers so...
The struggle to understand what the author was trying to say, the weird choice of words and phrase construction made me detached from the plot and the characters.
I did not care about anything except the slow increase in the read percentage.
I told myself that i will not struggle anymore with books that i do not enjoy so ...bye, bye.
And all of the motives and reasons for unseeing these characters culminate in the Beszel/Ul Qoma /Breach unseeing that Inspector Tyador Borlu of the Besz Extreme Crime Squad moves through in his search for the killer of a young American archaeologist.But the murder mystery, and even the potential conspiracies that swirl around the murder, are nowhere near as important as the way these two cities crosshatch and overlay and grosstopic, and the way people from the mundane to the Breach move through and around and in and outside all the permutations of these places in one place.And that concept of cities being more than what we are willing to see is the other piece of Miéville's narcissitically intertextual puzzle.
And there's a dead girl."That quote from a character in the book, sums this up very well.I enjoyed the concept, the wordplay, and the impossibility of categorisation: it's a detective story, with strong political themes, but it's set in a world that is not exactly dystopian or futuristic or fantastic - but it isn't quite realistic either.The CitiesThe title relates to a divided city that operates as separate cities, but it's not like Berlin, Budapest, Belfast, Nicosia or Jerusalem because (view spoiler)[the two cities (Besźel and Ul Qoma) occupy the same geographical space.
Half the time I felt as if I was reading a dusty encyclopedia description of a city and half the time an oddly paced but elaborate mystery.The story begins typical for the detective-mystery genre: we follow Inspector Tyador Borlu of the Extreme Crime Squad to the scene of a murdered and nude woman.
We take the noir detective format, incorporate a nice play on the idea of two cities, merged but unseen, occupying almost the same space with each other.
I'd suggest Only Forward if you want to play with the idea of city and identity.
The separation of the two parts of the City was the result of an obscure historical act equivalent to Original Sin. No one remembers what the act was or when it was committed but its effects persist in the rigid and unnecessary conventions that dominate the City’s life.Upon reflection, I have come to a very different interpretation of the book thanks to the influence of an unexpected source, a discussion of so-called ‘religious aesthetics’ by a theologian named Frank Burch Brown [see: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...].
What at first simply seems interesting (the overlapping geographical space of the two distinct cities of Beszel and Ul Qoma) by turns becomes an absorbing part of the mystery in China Mieville's The City & the City.
The way Mieville delineates the shared geographical spaces of the two cities and the rules surrounding what constitutes Beszel and what Ul Qoma is really incredible.
How the residents of the two cities must (upon penalty of Breach) treat the cities becomes inseparable from the plot (solving the murder).
This world becomes more complicated when it's suggested that Orsini (a third city) might also share the same space as Beszel and Ul Qoma.
The City and The City is about as original an idea, concept, theme as I can imagine– and all put together nicely into an ostensible murder mystery.
While that is the tone and structure, to me the real story was the absurdist city on top of or within, or beside or related to the other city.
Working well within its own parameters, I also saw the value of the concept in terms of allegory, perhaps a message about how boundaries, affected and arbitrary, are absurd and our beliefs and reliance in them equally as outlandish.
After reading Kraken, I placed the absurdist label on that writing, but not the Kafkaesque absurdity but rather the Monty Python kind.
Tyador Borlu of Beszel's Extreme Crime Squad is assigned to the murder case of an unknown woman.
To find her killer, Borlu must go to the neighboring city of Ul Qoma and team with Qussim Dhatt of the Murder Squad.
Yeah, it was one mindbender of a read.While The City & The City is firmly in the new weird genre, it's also a gritty crime story, which makes it substantially more accessible than many of Mieville's works.
Tyador Borlu and Qussim Dhatt are the bickering cops that secretly grow to respect one another as they unravel a mystery than snakes back and forth between the two neighboring cities.
It's far more abstract than that.The Concept The concept is basically: what if two cities and cultures or civilisations co-existed in the one physical city?
But I think it makes sense.The Law The two different Cities are basically legal constructs.
So if characters don't seem like they're human, if a reader feels that they are just cyphers, it's because the City has stripped their humanity away, it's the result of a stylistic choice (not the result of poor writing).Abstract but Powerful I admired Mieville's ability to construct these worlds and explore them credibly, while making the novel work at a metaphorical and political level.
Ugh, I feel like such a jerk. This book has received such praise, so my expecations were pretty high. I had read more than my fair share of excellent reviews, so I felt I was in for a treat.I really tried to like this - I really did. I thought the premise was absolutely brilliant. I just felt like it was either his prose or just the way the story itself came together that I didn't "get". I've yet to read a book that made me feel so confused.Please don't hate me goodreaders! I tried, I really did.
To do so otherwise, or to notice something or someone in the other city without looking away, is to be in Breach, and the punishments for being in Breach are beyond severe.As the story opens, a woman is found murdered in Beszel, and Inspector Tyador Borlu of the Extreme Crime Squad is assigned to investigate.
The two quickly discover that something much more sinister than a run-of-the-mill murder may be going on here.Tyador Borlu is, at heart, the archetypal detective with roots all the way back at least as far as Sam Spade and Philip Marlowe.
The book is set in two cities that occupy the same geographical space.
I enjoy discovering the plot, the setting and characters as I read, but as far as The City & The City is concerned this may not be such a good idea, Miéville does not start the narrative with any kind of exposition to set the scene.
This is not really a problem if you already have a little prior knowledge of the very odd setting from a summary.Reading this book is not a walk in the park, China Miéville made an effort to create such a bizarre world and culture for you to explore and some exertion is expected from the reader.
I even tried to listen to the author read an excerpt during a book-related event, and it still didn't help.Caught mid-sleep, after 5 minutes of listening to me read aloud.On the one hand, the prospect of dropping yet another book annoyed me to no end.
So I guess you'll just have to take my word, that if you persevere through the first 100 pages, there's a high chance that you'll get used to writing style, and start enjoying the rest of the book.
This will definitely not be my last Mieville book, but I'm already dreading having to get used to the writing style in his next book.
This book has been causing thoughts since I finished it a couple of days ago.
And then something happened yesterday that was both funny and a little frightening, illustrating exactly how much I might be missing as I walk down the streets of my city.
My husband and I were walking towards the local gaming store, towards the lures of Free RPG Day, talking.
Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
This was such a solid read. I listened to the audiobook which was at that 10-hour sweet spot I love. And overall the story was incredibly well-crafted and engaging. The way that Mieville blends the detective/crime fiction genre with pseudo-sci-fi elements was really ingenious. It was complex and imaginative but never too hard to follow. I would highly recommend this one to people who enjoy either crime novels or sci-fi, but with a twist. He goes beyond the expectations of both genres and delivers something with more depth, especially the sociopolitical commentary on refugees. 4/5 stars.
Σε ένα καφκικό γίγνεσθαι, όπου μια απρόσωπη, αδυσώπητη δύναμη (η Παράβαση) εμπλέκει τους ήρωες σε μια εφιαλτική πραγματικότητα τιμωρώντας τους για εγκλήματα που είναι αβέβαιο ότι διέπραξαν, ο  China Miéville  χτίζει ένα ατμοσφαιρικό θρίλερ μυστηρίου, το οποίο εκκινεί με τον μυστηριώδη θάνατο μιας αμερικανίδας φοιτήτριας αρχαιολογίας που (φαίνεται πως) δολοφονήθηκε στην Ουλ Κούμα, αλλά το πτώμα της αφέθηκε στην Μπεσέλ, και εντείνεται από τις αγωνιώδεις προσπάθειες δύο αστυνομικών (του επιθεωρητή Τίαντορ Μπόρλου από την Μπεσέλ και του ντετέκτιβ Κιούσιμ Ντατ από την Ουλ Κούμα) να βάλουν μια τάξη στα πράγματα, πριν η Πόλη και η Πόλη θρηνήσουν περισσότερα θύματα.
In it, two cities, Besźel and Ul Qoma, share the same geography but never overlap, their turfs winding around each other like the pieces of an elaborate jigsaw, and whose citizens make a conscious effort to ‘unsee’ any people or buildings they cross on the street who are, in fact, in the other city.The concept Miéville explores rings so true it practically reads like a work of realism.
As it progresses, the cities seem to become more of an interesting backdrop to a pretty straightforward murder mystery, and I found my interest waning when the book focused more on the crime than on the cities.Still, it’s a blast to read and I imagine I’ll remember it often whenever I catch myself ‘unseeing’ certain parts or peoples of the city I live in.
Mundos erráticos y escindidos que cohabitan una misma geografía urbana, imposible y dislocada.
Es una pena que el autor no profundice con más ahínco en sus personajes: Tyador Borlú, Qussim Dhatt, Lizbyet Corwi...
Novela arriesgada, sólidamente inconsistente, una cartografía inverosímil y valiente, fábula sobre el origen del mundo, de los mundos, sobre la multiplicidad de escenarios y la disgregación, metáfora de las fracturas y de las delgadas líneas íntimas y secretas de cada individuo, de cada ciudad.
And I found myself loving the mystery of the book then thinking it was too weak then loving it all over again when the twist I'd forgotten reminded me of Miéville's genius and why the mystery really does work.
One hundred years from now this book, and others of Miéville's ouevre will be canon.
It seems like I enjoy half of the novels I've read by China Miéville, and the other half I dislike.
And each of Miéville's novels is totally different.
You cannot judge his writing from just a single book.This novel is NOT science fiction--it seemingly takes place in the present day, and the available technology is no different than that available to us, today.
Most of the world, too, is just as it is today, except for a few dual cities.
Just as an example, how can you drive avoiding pedestrians and other vehicles that you are not legally able to see?In the beginning of the novel, it is very difficult to figure out what in the world is going on.
Polisiye tarafı değil de fantastik kurgusu daha etkileyici oldu benim için. Iki şehir arasındaki sınırların çizilme usulü yaratıcı olmuş.7/10
This book made me think about the ways that we all define ourselves and our homes, and how they have very little to do with geographic location.
I highly recommend it for current fans, or people who like to be thrown in the deep end.Perfect Musical PairingRadiohead – Little by LittleIf a hypothetical cave-dwelling friend of mind had never heard anything from Radiohead, and wanted an introduction, I would never give her the latest album.
Trying to wrap ones head around the philosophical problems of a city existing this way is difficult, but it's kind of fun to try to do it.
As a crime novel it kind of works I guess, but as a mystery there isn't enough information given to the reader to play sleuth while reading the book.
I don't know if that's an important part of being a mystery novel, that the reader be able to guess who did what while reading it, but in this book too much is not given, and key characters may or may not appear until the end of the book to alter what really happened.
The one separation that he doesn't mention but which, given his leftist credentials, one imagines must have been on his mind is the rich-poor divide: our shameful blindness to the poor, the homeless, and the marginal; the way cleaning staff and migrant workers (especially black market migrant workers) are invisible to us.Other knowing conspiratorial winks and nudges abound: The existence of Breach, a shadowy force that enforces the maintenance of Bes-Ul Qoma borders, is his nod to the secret police.
And like the title of the book indicates, the central weird idea is even more focused on the cities themselves.In this story, Mieville seems to have restrained himself somewhat to produce a tale set in the "real world," albeit a slightly alternate one to include our fictional cities.
Or it may be the city where the lonely oldy across the road lives in - the one who you never see or hear about till the blue lights wake you up in the middle of the night to carry out the corpse that's remained unclaimed for the last 3 weeks...or months.Again, the plot was nothing special - serving only to frame a central imagined concept that is not quite fantasy, not quite scifi, but still the weird imaginings of the mind that is China Mieville.
