https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10639.The_Paradox_of_Choice
He also links maximizing to the high and increasing incidence of clinical depression in the developed world and believes that satisficing is the best option for coping in a world in which we are overwhelmed with choice.He also introduces a bunch of other interesting topics:Hedonic Adaptation - Whatever we enjoy and that makes us happy, we will adapt to and thus derive less pleasure from in subsequent experiences.
But people have a very hard time accepting this, and are more likely to follow a course that will make them unhappy because they already spent the money.Regret - Maximizers are far more likely to experience regret than satisficers, because they are always susceptible to learning at a later date that a decision they made was actually not the absolute best choice they could have made.
The problem is that we spend too much time and energy trying to make choices that in the grand scheme of things don't matter that much.
I agree with the big idea, but I hated the book and here's why: Schwartz could have made his point in a fine three page article, we don't need 236 pages of examples to get the idea.
Yeah, there is too much choice, and we need to spend quality time making the choices that matter like where to work and who to be in a commited relationship with, and less time picking out what cereal to buy.
Make the right choice and leave this book on the shelf.
I’m out of the market, so end of story- you can pour your energy instead into improving the relationship, rather than second-guessing it (6) Practice an “attitude of gratitude”- the same experience can have delightful and disappointing aspects and its up to us what we focus on- everyday list 5 things that happened which you are grateful for (you may be surprised) (7) Regret Less- practice gratitude for what is good in a decision rather than focusing on bad (8) Anticipate adaptation- develop realistic expectations about how experiences change with time and how we satisfied with only higher levels of experience over time (the double wammy) (9) Control expectations- remove excessively high ones, allow for serendipity (10) Curtail social comparison- learning that good enough is good enough will automatically reduce social comparison- focus on what makes you happy and what gives meaning to your life (11) Learn to love constraints- they can be liberating this choice overload context- following rules can free up time/energy for situations where rules don’t work
And learning to choose well in a world of unlimited possibilities is harder still, perhaps too hard.” ― Barry Schwartz, The Paradox of Choice: Why More Is LessA solid survey of the behavioral economics literature related to the premise that the wide range of choices we have (what to read, how to read it, what rating to give it, where to post our review) actually ends up making us unhappier (tyranny of small decisions).
Schwartz's summary is similar to a lot of those pop-economic books that seem to pop up regularly and sell quite well because they both tell us something we kinda already suspected, but also gently surprise us with counter-intuitive ideas at the same time.
What I thought was going to be a book that analyzed how the abundances of choice or at least the appearance of choice affects our perception of freedom, satisfaction, and enjoyment, turned out to be a repetitive book that sounds like an older guy complaining why there are so many different types of beans in the supermarket."I just want a can of beans!
He describes the agony of picking out a pair of jeans, since there are so many different cuts available since clothing designers have figured out that there is more than one body type.And it is his approach to buying jeans that honestly made me loose respect in his approach to the whole subject of choice.
And while this does simplify things, it’s not a balanced approach either.The book makes the distinction between maximizers, people who shop around to find the best possible option, and satisficers, people who settle for “good enough.” It’s better to be a satisficer than a maximizer, and I did test closer to satisficer on the quiz (what good self-help book doesn’t have at least one?), but because regret over past decisions is a maximizer trait that looms large in my life, I’ve been forced to conclude that I’m a satisficer in food, clothing, and entertainment, but a maximizer over the big deal decisions of my life: education, career, relationships, and child-rearing.
This is one of those books that, once you've read it, permanently shifts your perspective.
As the author argues, your sense of well-being increases when you go from having no choices to having a few choices.
Because it's time-consuming and stressful to choose between all those alternatives!
You become fearful of making a mistake, of not making the absolute best choice.
And often the more time you spend making that perfect choice, the more unhappy you are second-guessing yourself after the fact.
Buying a house warrants careful consideration and lots of time.
The book is well-supported by lots of experimental evidence.
In The Paradox of Choice, Schwartz focuses on two basic ways of making decisions: maximizing (trying to make the very best possible choice) and satisficing (making a choice that will do well enough, all things considered).In the past, I've thought of these two approaches in terms of the decisions that need to be made, not in terms of the person making them.
When selecting a restaurant or an article of clothing, satisficing is usually the best approach.
One of his themes is that "maximizers" can drive themselves crazy by trying to make the "best" possible decision in every situation; it follows that "satisficers" tend to be healthier.
Bullet Review:Fascinating look at why making decisions can be so hard and some tips on how to lessen the regret from making a "bad choice".There were a few comments that came across somewhat sexist, but as I can't remember them (I read this over a LOOOOOONG period of time), I won't push the point.
But it's still a really quick read so what's the harm...There are so many things in here that are so interesting and apply to tons of situations and decisions every day.
Things that people constantly do to themselves without thinking, and could be so much happier if they knew they were doing it.
I am basically recommending that everyone I know read this book; not all of it is going to be new or blow your mind, but overall it's just full of information that everyone should know and be able to refer to as just facts.
This one is important!
This book had some good points.
And really they don't need to be so complex, but humans and their organizations, in particular- have made them so.
As I am not a maximizer in any sense, and least of all in the material- this was rather a waste of time for me to read, IMHO.If you are competitive in nature to the extreme, have difficulty making up your mind, obsessively shop or acquire- or find yourself at 35 or 40 years of age idealistic to the point of being either a perfectionist or a "true believer" for some bigger agenda or barely into "living" your own life or career- then this may be a good book for you to read.Most of the psychology here was not, but rather pseudo in definition and example, IMHO.
به نظرم همه ي آدما تو زندگيشون هميشه در حال تصميم گيري و انتخاب كردن هستن مثلا من همين الاني كه دارم
However, individuals need to learn how to focus on choices that are important for them and ignore the rest.Schwartz then discusses decision making.
Everyone is a maximizer in some areas and a satisficer in others, but most people have a general tendency one way or the other.The core of the book explores how choice decreases happiness.
Since there is not really a market for long essays these days, I do not blame Schwartz for bulking things up to make it book length.After reading this book, I am going to consciously try to be aware of when I am making choices, when those choices are decreasing my happiness, and what choices are important to me.
"The Paradox of Choice" is a simple book in many ways.
It shows that there's concrete data backing up many of the "well duh" platitudes people regularly dismiss while making terrible life choices.The book was a revelation for me, since it related a lot to the culture of worry and second guessing I grew up with.
Explaining the real science behind why chasing the dollar and comparing your success to others produces misery has genuinely changed my outlook on how to handle choice in a culture of overwhelming possibilities.
Mnogi se pitaju gde im odlazi slobodno vreme, a kada razmisle, shvate da su pola dana birali gde će da ručaju, šta će da obuku, s kim će sve da idu, šta će da jedu, koliko će tamo da ostanu, a pre toga su birali gde će nešto da kupe, šta će da kupe, koliko će para da potroše, obilazili radnje, i uvek su nekako izvirale nove radnje, novi modeli, pa onda još samo jedna radnja, još samo jedna stvar...
Uvek tražimo sve više i više nivoe uživanja a kada se naviknemo na nešto i to nam više ne bude dovoljno, težimo još višem.
Barry Schwartz is chiefly concerned with explaining that an abundance of opportunities - especially for material goods - can actually decrease happiness and that "maximizers," - people in relentless pursuit of the best of all things and agonized by the fear that their decision might be the wrong one - would be better off as "satisficers," - people who discipline themselves to consider only a limited range of options and then make a firm decision and get on with life.
Learn to accept "good enough," because with many things in life, this really is going to be "best" for you.
I like the part of the book where the author goes in detail to explain choice paralysis which is something I dealt with a lot myself.
Moreover the book talks about 2 different ways to make decisions, the author divided people into "Maximizers" and "Satisficers".Maximizers are people who tend to search all the options, gather all possible information in order to make the best possible choice.
What the author argues is that satisficers are generally happier with their choice, and spend less time choosing, leaving them free to enjoy other things.
It sounds so non-intuitive; why are less happy when we are given many choices, than when we have few or even none?
It has to do with the difference between objective and subjective results.
Objectively, when given a choice, we end up with a superior result.
When given a choice, we end up with a better match to our desires; a better vacation, a better partner, a better car, a better stereo, a better cereal, a better college.
But we judge our happiness in an subjective manner.
This book explained so much about the way I behave -- I am a total maximizer, meaning that whenever I have a choice to make, I always want the absolute best option, even if researching to discover the best option is hard and time-consuming.
Instead, I could be a satisficer: someone who picks the option that satisfies all their requirements, without worrying whether something better is out there.
Schwartz shows persuasively that maximizers are less happy than satisficers.
This book helped me understand myself better and may help me be a happier person in the future by concentrating less on the things that are unimportant.
خیلی جالب بود. حتماً باید یه بار دیگه بخونمش، اون هم متن کاملش رو. قبول برخی حرف های نویسنده سخته، و باید بهشون فکر کرد. شاید باید دوباره بهش گوش بدم.به یک بار خوندن میارزه؛ مخصوصاً اگر در حال حاضر در برابر یه انتخاب مهم قرار دارین یا اینکه عوامل زیادی که باید در موردشون تصمیم بگیرین، گیجتون کردن.
Классика. Цитируется во многих книгах про принятие решений, психологию выбора.
قابل تامل و جالب بود. دوست دارم کتابش رو بخونم (آدیو بوک خلاصه شو گوش دادم)
As a culture, we like freedom, self-determination, and variety, and we are reluctant to give up any of our options, but clinging tenaciously to all the choices available to us contributes to bad decisions, anxiety and stress.A few personal takeaway points:-	Choice overload causes pre and/or post regret.
For example, we will choose a coin flip that determines whether we lose $200 or nothing over a sure loss of $100.Bronze medalists are happier than silver medalists.
And with each if only you generate will come a little more regret and a little less satisfaction with the choice you actually made.
Ja neesat lasījuši How We Decide - izlasiet!Ja neesat lasījuši The Paradox of Choice: Why More Is Less - arī izlasiet!!Aleksandrijas bibliotēkas direktors Ismail Serageldin esot teicis, ka reiz informācija bija pieejama kā piles no aizgriezta ūdens krāna; tagad informācija ir pieejama kā ūdens šalts sejā no ugunsdzēsēju šļūtenes. Neviena no veidiem nav iespējams padzerties. Šī grāmata ir viena no pirmajām manis lasītajām, kas piedāvā skaidrojumu, ietvaru un ieteikumus, kā iemācīties regulēt informācijas un izvēļu plūsmu savā dzīvē, lai uzlabotu dzīves kvalitāti nevis to samazinātu.Kopsavilkuma nodaļu izdrukāju pārlasīšanai un atgādinājuma sev ikdienā. Patiesi vērtīga grāmata.
This book is really good in a few places, but repetitive for the most part.
The subject matter is very interesting - why we (the developed world in particular) are getting more depressed despite our standard of living ostensibly rising with each passing day?
A lot of the explanations are common sense if you think about it, such as too much choice is a bad thing, social comparisons make us sad, and losing something after having it is worse than not having it at all.
I enjoyed the conclusions of the book, but find myself wishing that it would have been 2/3rds of its actual length.
I would recommend this book as intermittent reading or for skimming through.
This and Borges' "Library of Babel" are the two works that best describe sites such as this.Highly recommended.
(No wonder I've been looking to buy a house for over a year and a half.) :) I see how important it is to step back and think about what choices really matter and spend our time on those decisions and not worry as much about the rest.
3).""I believe that we make the most of our freedom by learning to make good choices about the things that matter, while at the same time unburdening ourselves from too much concern about the things that don't (p.
A chooser is someone who thinks actively about the possibilities before making a decision.
235)."I am grateful for the opportunity to make choices and decisions in life.
On his scale of maximizers (those who spend lots of time, energy, and emotion trying to compare absolutely everything as make the best choice) and satisficers (those who set a certain standard of goodness, and once they find it, accept it, even if there might be something better out there) I fall somewhere in the middle.
From personal experience, finding joy in simple things brings me a lot of happiness.Schwartz also talks about making decisions that actually limit the full range of choices.
The core arguments: We would be better off if we embraced certain voluntary constraints.
We would be better off if we lowered our expectations of the results of decisions.
We would be better off if the decisions we made were nonreversible.
"I never knew if I was researching something useful." A student from a different class after the same unit said "it's just easier to have a curriculum of important, relevant information." Following a set curriculum probably is a lot easier, even if it is sometimes limiting.
That may be true, but this book can be read as a caution on that movement.Regardless, it's a quick and informative read.
