https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7772.Dr_Seuss_s_Sleep_Book
Ironically... a sleeper book!  GOOD NIGHT, DR. SEUSS!  A yawn is quite catching, you see. Like a cough.  It just takes one yawn to start other yawns off. I dare you to read this charming tale and not yawn!It’s true! I yawned and I am not shamed to admit it!Obviously that’s the very idea of the story, to help kids to sleep, and…well…...mmh…(yawn)……ZZZZZ……ZZZZZ……ZZZZZ……ZZZZZ……ZZZZZ…
Warning: This book should be read in bed!
It's such a cute book, even though there's not really a point except to point out all the creatures sleeping, and implying the reader should be sleeping too!
What I love about it is it's classic Dr. Seuss, and it's great!
How in the world did this man not only draw these fabulous creatures, but the funny names and the story lines?
Anyone who thinks he is not the best thing since sliced doughNeeds to be run over by the Hoop-Soup-Snoop Group, So I'm bothering telling you so, Because they are not in the loop!
A book about sleep - what a curious thing! After reading this book what dreams will it bring? (Sorry, I just couldn't resist).
I wish I was in this book.
I found this one to be a very dull read. Then again, maybe that was the idea all along. This is definitely not one of the man's best books.
It's not good book to read at bedtime. Every time there was word "sleep" or made allusion of going to sleep, I was interrupted with: "I'm not going to sleep!" Kaito was extremely annoyed with this book and I was annoyed with tongue twisters.
I don't know why, but I don't know how many times I yawned when reading this book?! :-OWhatever it be, it's a good sleep book.. ;)
Look I didn't like Dr. Seuss that much when I was a kid, and I don't like him that much as an adult, and I don't like reading this aloud to my 4-year old cos, like every Dr. Seuss book, it goes ON AND ON AND ON.
I don't think I've ever read a Dr. Seuss book that I didn't want to end 20 pages before it actually ended.Maybe there will be some intermediate age where I get into this or Izzy does, or Asha does, I dunno.
If I have to read this book one more time, my head is going to explode. I give it five stars because my daughter dearly, dearly loves it.You know what I like about Dr. Seuss? Sometimes it's not about "teaching" anything—it's just about enjoying a good, toe-tapping rhyme, and my child can't get enough of him. I don't mind when stories have a message, but sometimes the joy of the story is sacrificed for the sake of the message, and that's no way to learn love of reading. This is a largely meaningless story, but boy does she love it.
My favorite Seuss book, by far.
For me when it comes to this book I didn't get that enthusiastic feeling when reading Dr. Seuss books and I believe its because I didn't actually care about the characters or the dialogue.This bug called the Van Vleck starts to yawn and then it becomes contagious for the people around the bug.
When they start yawning, it starts to spread and the creatures who normally follow routine are now quickly heading off to bed and falling asleep.
I didn't feel any sentimentality when reading this book and I believe many would love and cherish this book if their parents or loved ones read them bed night stories.
This “sleep book” tells invites the reader (presumably a small child being read to in bed) to learn about how all of the mystical creatures in the “County of Keck” are preparing for their slumber.
Dr. Seuss uses a very decodable style, with plenty of rhyming made-up phrases to accompany the many illustrations of yawning and sleeping creatures.
This decodable style and the ratio of lots of pictures to little text are what make this a picture book.I would integrate this into a classroom during a lesson or unit on rhyme or even phonemic awareness.
While this book may be read at any time of day, the book concludes by advising the reader to only read this book at night. Yet another classic by Dr. Seuss that reinforces the beloved tongue-twisters, repetitive words and made up phrases! I read this book to bed the other night and am not ashamed to admit. Dr. Seuss is simply the best.
I never read this one as a kid and recently got it after reading Dr. Seuss's Sleep Softly Book to my boy about a thousand times (not complaining, as I love it!). He's almost 8 months old but that's not quite mature enough to have a sufficient attention span for this book. For now, I'm sticking to the Nursery Collection, but I got a good chuckle from reading The Sleep Book.
When read aloud to someone, or even to yourself, it works every time. ( At least for me)Zzzzzs every time with this book of rhyme.
Still the best Dr. Seuss book ever. Amazing sentences.
เปน sleep book ทีอานแลวงวงจริง 😂 *yawn*
เป็น sleep book ที่อ่านแล้วง่วงจริง 😂 *yawn*
This is my favorite Dr. Seuss book.
I have clear memories of my grandmother reading this to me before bed when I would spend the night at her house as a child.
I still find myself thinking, "The time for night-brushing of teeth is at hand," as I brush my teeth at night, and I'm almost 30 years old.The one slight downside, and it's not even enough of one to knock off a star, is that this book is a tad long.
I clocked it at 15 minutes last night, and that was reading it to my 4-month-old son who can't yet interrupt to ask questions and who just listens as he nurses and has no interest in looking at the pictures.
Dr. Seuss is always perfect and so is this book of sleepy time poems.
Yes the book can be read as one continuos story but it is also a collection of stand alone poems.
Dr. Seuss in his fanciful way always ,also, makes the pictures pleasing to children.
Children could take turns learning to read the verses( poems ) separately and then reading them to the class.A Jedd is in bed,And the bed of the JeddIs the softest Of beds in the world, It is said.He makes it from pom pomsHe grows on his head.And he's sleeping right nowOn the softest of fluff,Completely exhaustedFrom growing the stuff.
I had never heard of this Dr. Seuss book before so naturally I had to read it to see how I liked it!
The story begins with one small yawn that spreads from bedroom to bedroom and across the country until ninety-nine zillion, nine trillion and three Seussians are sound asleep.
It is the perfect bedtime story/poem.
However, I did notice that they lacked the usual multiple colors that many of Dr. Seuss' books have.
Could it be because this book is intended to be read to a child at night and they should not be distracted by bright, overwhelming pictures?
This is a book that was read to me when I was a child.
Now that I have children of my own, I read it to them - well - at least I read it to my two year old almost every night.I have fond memories of having this read to me and one of my siblings got it for me for a present a few years ago.
I forgot how much it makes you yawn and want to go to sleep.
Most of the time, my son is asleep by the time we are finished reading the book.
Absolutely clever and cute.I really want to read this to my kids before they go to sleep.*sigh*
I've read this book at least 20 times, and I have never read it without crying at the end.
Read my review here
A good book. I always liked the sleeping machine.
snoozed like a baby after fiance read it to me.
When I was a nanny I would sit close to the crib and read this in a low voice, then getting more soft until I was whispering, he never made it to the end of the story.
Just The Thing For Bedtime.
... an enjoyable childhood read, typical of all the Dr. Seuss books I've read...
Yes, it's a nice book. Yes, I read this in bed.Yes, I started to become sleepy. Yes, I kept yawning. Yes, it's the perfect sleep book.
