https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/539519.The_Werewolf_of_Paris
My own taste for the macabre leans towards the mild and I was expecting The Werewolf of Paris to be good campy fun, something of the order of the cult-classic movie “An American Werewolf in London” (1981), but what I got was something even better: a well-written tale set during the Franco-Prussian War that comments as much on religion, science, law, and money as on sex and death.
Sophie, the dark beauty loved by the werewolf, muses about death as she lies in bed at night.
As Aymar travels through a besieged Paris looking for his murderous nephew Bertrand, he observes man’s inhumanity to man wholesale.
Slowly Bertrand’s “uncle” Aymar (the nephew of the woman who had taken in Josephine and the man who ends up becoming responsible for both mother and child) begins to put the pieces of the puzzle together and see that everything leads back to his nephew.
Also, the ambiguity of the actual ‘reality’ of Bertrand’s lyncanthropy and his relatively secondary role as a character in the story makes me think that while this is a good tale well worth reading, it may not be the ultimate exemplar of werewolf fiction.
The theme of man's inhumanity to man will return with a vengeance by the end of the novel, but for the moment the most memorable scene is of a man buried alive in an oubliette and slowly turned from rational human being into beast.One of the pet theories of the author is that evil begets more evil, and acts of horror are inherited from one generation to another.
The novel takes us next to Paris in the aftermath of the 1848 revolutionary year, and introduces the narrator - Aymar Galliez, a rationalist and a militant for social change, forced to deal with unexplained phenomena as a young servant girl in his household is raped by a renegade priest and later gives birth to a wild boy.
I don't know if Endore set out to write the "Dracula" of werewolf stories, but he certainly accomplished it, and very much outdoes that story in both epic scope and prosaic style.Here is a story that has a little bit of everything: canibalism, child rape by priest, incest, bestial instincts, cowardness, madness, the death-drive, sadomasochism, rough sex, political intrigue, social satire, arcane and family history, nature vs.
Nevertheless it happens ocassionally that the soul of a beast gains entrance into a man's body while he yet lives.
This book looked so interesting on the surface that I wish I could rate it better, but it just wasn't worth it. Filled with choppy writing that is neither creative nor original, plus the endless sentences that seem to drag on, this book was more of a hassle to read than anything else.
I suppose that I owe a debt of gratitude to writer Marvin Kaye, who selected Guy Endore's classic novel of lycanthropy, "The Werewolf of Paris," for inclusion in Newman & Jones' excellent overview volume "Horror: 100 Best Books." If it hadn't been for Kaye's article on this masterful tale, who knows if I would have ever run across it, and that would have been a real shame, because this is one very impressive piece of work indeed.
There supposedly really was a Sgt. Bertrand in 1840s Paris who was said to be a grave-despoiling werewolf, and that fact adds an additional frisson to this tale.
The last fourth of the book, was such a let down.
This book had a great beginning-it deserved a great ending.
Pseudo uncle lets him out to feed on all the dead from the war.
Sophie has a werebaby, raised by whipped boyfriend.Were wolfie catches pseudo uncle and sophie doing it!Were wolfie rapes and kills a street tramp, to only discover it was his loving mother.Then his half brother hunts him down for revenge!Wolfie neets she wolf, and dumps Sophie so quick.
Maybe even makes a snack out of her, or they raise the baby wolfie themselves.
What makes novels about these monsters great is the concept of the beast within.
The werewolf of Paris handles the concept wonderfully.
The story centers largely around a young man named Bertrand who through no fault of his own is cursed with lycanthropy.
The book deals with many social issues including war, sexual abuse, and just plain human evil.
It gives us a lot to think about.
Bertrand was a monster yes but are we in a world full of rapist, child abusers, and murderers any better than the monsters we fear in stories?
i just read an excellent review by Susan Budd, that reminds me of this book, i read this years ago, i thought this was on here, i have to say this is one of my favorite horror works, as years have passed, i cannot give it a true review. only that the historical, philosophical, religious, aspects are integrated, effective, necessary, that this is a corrective to any historical revisionism, religious or secular claimed values, with a bleak vision of mankind. written at exactly the right time...

His life is one of confusion and anger and violence but mostly, shame as the monster within him takes control of his life causing him to lash out at friends and family in violence, though these are not his worst crimes.The story takes place during mid 19th century France and the climax of the book happens around the collapse of the Paris Commune.
I think one female character makes it out "ok" and that's because the book places her in one location and when the plot moves beyond that locale, the book drops her.This is a damn good book which just happens to have a werewolf.
The book follows Bertrand Caillet, a young man who was conceived when his mother was raped by Father Pitamont, a priest descended from a family known for its brutality.
Bertrand's activities in wolf form are only suggested for the most part, with more focus on the aftermath.
It works as a horror story, a drama, a war story, a historical piece, and a romance.
A lot of detail is given about the time period, especially the atrocities committed during the war and the brief existence of the Paris Commune shortly thereafter.
This book has a slow start and occasional disjointed jumping in the middle of the narrative, but once it gets going it is a riveting story set against an intriguing historical backdrop.I particularly like the way the violence of the werewolf is linked to and compared with the violence taking place in general at the time.
It also offers a very frank appraisal of sexual proclivities and their link to violence.
Certainly Bertrand exudes a sort of magnetism (much is made of his eyes) and the sexual elements are most definitely there.
But in addition to that, this book is also part thriller, part historical fiction and part detective story.
This was the basis for the rather delicious 1961 Hammer movie The Curse of the Werewolf.
The novel is actually mainly concerned with lycanthropy as a metaphor for human viciousness, and especially for the horrors of war and revolution (much of the action takes place during the Franco-Prussian War of 1870 and the subsequent violence and civil war surrounding the establishment of the Paris Commune).
There’s also quite a bit that had to be cut from the movie version.
It’s one of the more interesting werewolf novels that I’ve come across.
~* Part of my TBR for the 2016 Halloween Read-A-Thon! Full review found on The Bent Bookworm*~The Werewolf of Paris was first published in 1933. The writing style is definitely of the age, but it also shows marks of the beginnings of modern day novel writing. Apparently they liked their smut in the 1930s too, they just tended to be more embarrassed about it.
Okay, you can say the book is kind of a mess ... Sloppy plotting, and kind of a limp ending,and not the most likeable protagonist (as if that's a requirement!), but there are some powerful scenes of horror here that stand up with the best ..
With a title like “The Werewolf of Paris”, you might think this novel was just one more modern-day saga of an otherworld monster wreaking havoc on the population, if not in the United States then for sure in the French capital.
Published in 1933—yes, 1933—under the pen-name Guy Endore by then-Hollywood screenwriter Samuel Goldstein (nominated for an Oscar for “The Story of G.I. Joe”), this phantasmagoric journey of historical-fiction takes the reader centuries back into time via the unusual art form of a personal essay written by the uncle of Bertrand, a most unwilling werewolf who finds himself prisoner of fate in the France of the mid-to-late 1800s.
As part of Monsterfest 2013, I decided to tour some book monster classics as well as films.
I was finishing up Stoker's "Dracula" and decided to research the "Dracula" of werewolf stories.
The book relates the tragic tale of Bertrand who inherits the curse of lycanthropy from a corrupted priest in his family tree.
His stepfather, feeling responsibility for not stopping the werewolf when he had the chance, follows Bertrand to Paris with full intentions of stopping him.
The werewolf mayhem is not as well written as the creepy passages in Stoker, limiting the scare factor of this novel.
Not only does this justly deserve the label of being the definitive werewolf novel, but it's just a really damn good book, a near literary masterpiece, which needs to be pulled back out of obscurity and far more widely read that it's become after falling out of print in the 70s.
Like Dracula, it's a far more sprawling narrative than initially expected, with the backdrop of the Franco-Prussian War giving the second half such a rich tapestry to paint the themes against.
But unlike Dracula, it's not as dated in its morality, with far more ethically grey characters which aren't easy to paint as good or evil.
Written in 1933, this is framed with a story of an American finding a discarded manuscript about the werewolf, Bertrand Caillet.
Set in France in the late 19th Century, this tries to be for werewolves what Dracula is to vampires, filled with lots of werewolf lore.
Vampires sparkle, and werewolves are mannerly professors or suave sophisticates, so I enjoyed finding one that's an out and out monster, mad, bad, and dangerous to know.
The secondary characters are finely drawn and the historical backdrop of the Franco-Prussian War and Paris Commune well-detailed.
Way too much of the material about the Paris Commune had nothing to do with the werewolf.
Dark but also at times sweet and moving story about a man who turns into a werewolf at night and runs through the streets of Paris.
Endore humanizes the man and shows that he doesn't really enjoy what he is but what is he to do?
I love Endore's writing style - it's a shame his books are nearly impossible to find in print anymore.
With this story, it's creepy enough for horror/thriller fans but there's also an interesting spin with the werewolf having a really human, remorseful element to his nature.
3.5 stars. The French names/places/phrases/accents were sometimes a bit irritating for listening during a commute in heavy traffic. There were chapters that were VERY engaging and interesting, peppered with a few that had a bunch of background historical information that both was and wasn't relevant to the telling of the tale. I think I would've enjoyed an abridged version very much. I guess it depends on the reader: If you're listening for sheer entertainment, see if there's an abridged version. If you want to understand the context of the times in addition to the entertainment, listen to the unabridged version.
Intelligent, engaging, haunting and poetic, it is both a historical recreation of Paris after the Franco-Prussian War centered on the siege of Paris with its rationing of food and commodities, and a horror story told in a modern vernacular filled with universal human truths about the monsters of this world, within and without. It's sexually deviant from the onset, twisted and perverse, with surprisingly funny dark humor peppered throughout. A fascinating read. I ate it up.
A classic that belongs beside Dracula and Frankenstein with the added benefit of social commentary.
His father then disappeared, stopping all funding, and Guy was returned to the US where he later eked out an education and became a Hollywood writer later blacklisted for being an evil commie.His upbringing interested me because while reading this book I was sure that it was a French author being that the book is deliciously grim with French sensibilities and steeped in revolution that, toward the end, came across as more of a history of Paris during one of the French Revolutions than a book about good old murderous werewolfing.
His story, as told through the point of view of his would-be uncle, Aymar Galliez, is one of love, pain, violence, peace, animalism and humanity.When I was starting my October 2012 classic monster literature mini-series, I wanted to read the source material for some of the very popular creatures of fiction.
Bertrand Caillet is as unsettling a creature as the Count or Frankenstein's monster, and it was a good (and fast!) read for Halloween, even if there are some lulls in the storytelling.
The definitive classic werewolf tale.Banned in Australia.As part of my 2015 Reading Challenge I had to read a banned book.
I decided to challenge myself further by choosing one banned in my home country and wasn't I surprised when I found this book on the list.
Having read it, I remain firm in my belief that the so-called 'moral guardians' have no right to decide what is or isn't appropriate for other people.This book is one that had a profound effect on werewolf mythology from what I have heard.
If only to complete the Dracula/Frankenstein trifecta.***Reading Challenge 2015: A banned book***
When the body of a man weakens, the soul of that man begins to detach itself from the tentacles of flesh and prepares itself to fly off the instant the body dies.
Nevertheless it happens occasionally that the soul of a beast gains entrance into a man's body while he yet lives.
He is a man, clad in garments and is walking about, busy in the affairs of the city."And there are, in the second place, werewolves that have but one body, in which the soul of man and of beast are at war.
Though the filming techniques were cheesy, watching Lon Chaney transform from wolf to human in the 1941 Wolfman made me shiver when it was replayed on Saturday afternoons.
Endore’s book is now back in print.The wolfman myth is especially intriguing since I may become one myself.
Chaney’s wolfman appears after he is bitten by another werewolf.
However, according to Romanian myth, people like me who were born between in the 12 days between Christmas and Epiphany (thus conceived during Easter when sex was forbidden) are destined to become werewolves.Like Romania’s lycanthropes, Endore’s wolfman was born, not bitten.
The story is told from the view of an American scholar studying in Paris who happens upon an old manuscript concerning the court martial of Sergeant Bertrand Caillet at the time of the Paris Commune.
His adoptive uncle suspect something is amiss with young Bertrand, but keeps the suspicions of the local villagers lulled by locking Bertrand's room at night and feeding him raw meat, which keeps his lycanthropy quiescent.
When his uncle finds out what has happened Bertrand flees to Paris, where he gets caught up in the turmoil of the Franco-Prussian war.Bertrand is presented as a likable young man afflicted with a condition beyond his power to control.
