https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16277513-tschiffely-s-ride
Telling of an incredible journey taking almost three years, covering ten thousand miles on horseback, undertaken by a Swiss school teacher, this is a book written in a remarkably simple style.
Days would pass in the passage of a short paragraph, and weeks spent in towns for recovery were skipped over quite cleverly, never letting the exciting pace of the journey translate to the tedium that it in reality would have been at times.As usual there were lots of sections that as I read I though 'better make a note of that page' as I really wanted to quote a few, but instead I committed the numbers to an already overworked memory.
The book is credited, and deserves the credit, for blazing a trail in the long travels by horseback of later "long riders."  While I am no great equestrian myself, I do appreciate compelling stories of travel and stories about horses and those who care for them [1], and this book is certainly a compelling narrative about a lengthy journey by horseback from a Swiss-Argentine who not only muses about the greatness of Argentine horses (about which he may be slightly biased) but also shows himself to be an observant and humane and deeply reflective traveler through the troubled countries of Latin America, which he observes with a great deal of insight and criticism.
I was sorry when the story ended.
This is an adventure from start to finish.
Aime Tschiffely accomplished what few thought possible.
It took him almost 3 years to reach New York from Buenos Aires.
He stopped along the way, sometimes for days and other times for up to 3 weeks.
He planned it well, seemed to have money to help pave the way and knew how to chose top horses in Gato and Mancha, Criollo or Creole hoses of great stamina.
This is my second time reading about the trek and I enjoyed it every bit as much the second read.
Simple, muy simple. Y entretenido. La lucha del viajero contra los insectos, el calor y la lluvia durante dos años.Pero se ven muchas cosas -en 1920- que siguen igual, y también otras han cambiado. Instructivo libro sin pretensiones.
Inspiring and frightening by turn.NOT an adventure story-book.
An adventure in fact.The obstacles and wonders encountered.
His love for his horses.
Could or should he allow his horses to be the experimental trail-blazers, lest he become fouled by some hazard.
Alternatively, if he took the chance himself, what would become of the horses with their packs and gear without him to free them?
What would you do faced by a decaying 'ladder bridge' over a steep gorge?The places, the people, the hazards the decisions are all still there for you to experience.An amazing feat.
Used as a reference book and treasured.
Wonderful book. So glad I broke down and bought it since it wasn’t available through the library. Tells his story succinctly without long tangents about morals, ethics values etc. He does share his feelings but that is brief an to the point as well. Get to know the horses,too. They are important characters in the story as the man himself. He struggled to give them as good care as he was able to and sometimes they all went without together.
Great description of an oddyseyAs apt now as when it was written. First heard of this book in Engenes "Man and Horse" Thanks to Muriwai Books for keeping this description of a fascinating journey in circulation. I highly recommend reading this tale of amazing fortitude and a look at South America Central America and Mexico as it once was.
A real eye-opener, intimately describing the Americas in a new light, people and places, culture and conflict. A classic - without a doubt this is a book that every American should read, North and South.
A very incredible journey of the Americas by horseback.I enjoyed reading about the cultures, hardships, and exploration of Tschiffely and his horses. He rode them from Argentina to Washington D.C. during the 1920s.
Riding ten thousand milesIf this trip were to be tried today the rider would not make it with a the crime and change in people.A very enjoyable book and well written.
I loved this book as a kid in the 1960s. I got it out of the library many times to reread. Now I have an early copy of my own and I'm looking forward to re-reading it.
After hearing about this book, I had to read it.
having to survive on whatever vegetation that was available, crossing raging rivers, mountains, floods, cold, rain, desert, insects.
One recommendation, be sure to have wikipedia or an encyclopedia available as he mentions people, events and landmarks that very very few of us will know or be familiar with.
He went on to write several other books, one that is the same journey, told from the viewpoint of the two horses (Gato [cat] and Mancha [spotty])...
it's now on my list to read sometime.
Tschiffely tells the story of his trip well and entertains with his stories of people's reception of the idea of his trip.
He tells of the parties and festivities that occur all along his route.
His native horses were amazing.
Horses habituation to the country and conditions was a very good idea.
The horses did well out of their native habitat in America as well.
I really liked his description of the reaction to the piebald by both men and animals when he went through an area with only solid colored horses, no piebalds or pintos....
It took me a full year to start and finish this book.
Tschiffel was a simple school teacher and he did an amazing thing.
Buenos Aires to New York..
Close to three years and over 10,000 miles on foot and in a saddle.
I am very glad I read it.
Tschiffel's ride gave me a peek into many places I will never see..and certainly never see them as he did.
His resolve impressed me greatly.
I can not imagine the planning and changes of those plans that he had to make on his journey.
A Good read...
It took me about a year to read - the print in the edition I have is tiny and lines close together, but what a treasure.
He is the best travel writer ever and has captured a time and place in his hundreds of stories about the adventures he shared with his two "dear pals" Mancha and Gato, his two Criollo horses, on their 1000 mile, 3 year ride from Buenos Aires to Washington DC in 1925.
I read it slowly and thoroughly, traveled with them all the way and cried when it was over.
I hope this book will be in print forever.
I read this book slowly, making sure I had time to read every line, and became so fully immersed in 1920s South/Central America that every time I pulled my head out of its pages, I felt like I was in a fog as I tried to comprehend my actual surroundings.
Lots of great detail about rarely described places, with many unique and unusual experiences.
All experienced on horseback and with even better detail about his equine companions, too.
I'm glad I read A Tale of Two Horses first, to give me a clearer outline, because then I was able to fully appreciate the more in-depth version.
This traveller rode two South American horses, Mancha and Gato, from the tip of South America to the top of North America. This is the story of his famous journey.The younger horse was 16 and the other was 18. They became a real team and saw many sights. Tschiffely was asked many questions afterwards but he said everyone wanted to know how he negotiated the Panama Canal. In fact, that was the easiest part of the trip. A bridge is there and he walked the horses across to the northern side. This is a lively and adventurous read.
This book is the reason why I love travel writing. The author travels from Peru to New York. No big deal, right? Well, this book is written in in the late 1920s and the author makes his journey on a donkey. He encounters strangers along the way, some friendly, some territorial. His journey takes him over 2 years and over 10,000 miles and takes you along for the whole ride.
This was an interesting read because it was written in the 1920's and published in 1934.The information given by the author as he rode thru south America was interesting but at times repetitive and the views expressed were certainly those of the times and prejudicial.
I read this book as an annoying pony fixated kid - and it blew me away. The depth of description and characterization was incredible, not to mention the epic'ness of the journey described and hurdles overcome. A must read.
The moment I opened that book, I knew I would read it. It took me only 4 days and I consider it as my favourite book. The best thing about it is that everyone are polite and friendly in it, this is a must-read!
An intrepid traveller with 2 horses all the way through the Americas! What a journey! Wonderful travelogue and charming tale. I have read it several times asnd still loive it so much!
I loved this book. Great adventure story of a time gone by.
This book took me a while to read but it was very enjoyable. The historical aspect was quite fascinating.
This is an incredible (true) adventure story of a guy that rode from Buenos Aires to Washington DC on two Argentine criollo ponies (mustangs) in the 1920s. Facinating.
Wonderful non-fiction book about the author's ride on two criollo horses from Argentina to Washington D.C. in 1924. Recommend highly.
