https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75485._crits
I marked this "to-read" but that might not be an honest assessment of my intentions. So I'm creating a new shelf. "To-poke-at-with-a-stick".
And to think, he was doing therapy analyzing people's sanity when in fact, one glance at this text will reveal Lacan himself is batshit crazy, I mean like hanging from the chandelier without any pants on, out of his gourd crazy.
He apparently has read every single book in existence because he footnotes everything.
This should be called the Necromicon (an HP Lovecraft reference meaning a book no one has ever read impossible to decipher the text but it contains the secret meaning of all of existence).
Lacan spent a lot of time writing about the disparity between what we perceive as reality or knowledge and what is "actually" there (or, perhaps more accurately, the way language limits our understanding), and as I sat there, reading and re-reading (and re-reading) each passage, I became increasingly frustrated by the text.
Why was this so hard?
These were just words in a language I've been speaking for as long as I've been speaking in a language, so there was no reason it should be so hard.
And then it occurred to me that I was experiencing the exact kind of disparity between understanding and perception that Lacan was describing (kind of like the organic reading experience Mark Z.
Some dumb book by a French guy.
To summarize the discussion that Lacan sustains in these book, I would like to share this quote of his ‘Écrits’:"Is the place that I occupy as the subject of the signifier concentric or eccentric in relation to the place I occupy as subject of the signified?” The point is not to know whether I speak of myself in a way that conforms to what I am but rather to know whether when I speak of myself, I am the same as the self of whom I speak.
I had a professor who felt that the gridlocked Lacanian subject of the popular imagination is an overdetermined, suffocated facsimile of the real thing, promulgated by Alain-Miller’s sneaky, manipulative publishing.
I definitely don’t buy Lacan’s subject as a sort of redolent Deleuzian multiplicity (as some have suggested), and I’m still chewing on the precise shape of the thing, but I found Alain-Miller’s contours useful in writing coherently.
There are some things to recommend Zizek as a theorist, least of all his popularization of Lacan, but his highly idiosyncratic interpretations and applications are, to put it mildly, highly controversial.
It's strange, but for me very true, that the best poetry I've ever read postures itself not as poetry but as psychoanalysis, positioned in a kind of wierd overlapped space shared by literature, science, art, history, philosophy, and pyschoanalysis - one of the first truely interdisciplinary schools of thought.
Fundamental. Magisterial. Dark, gothic, highly polemical, and piercingly sardonic. Lacan is a polished stylist, his language is of the highest standard. I recommend this book to everyone - read it closely, slowly, with a pencil in hand. But first read Freud, otherwise it might be difficult
“O desejo é a essência da realidade. “(Jacques Lacan)
Reading Lacan makes you realize that what you think of as your own stable identity is in fact, illusory, a construct, behind which the real subject presides.
When you look in the mirror and see a unified, stable self, you have a moment of confusion because the reflection is far more one-dimensional than the entity that beholds it.
Just like Freud, Lacan understood the world - and especially language - in terms of a one-sex model of sexuality and subjectivity.
Like Irigaray, I disagree with Lacan's depiction of the Symbolic order as ahistorical and unchanging - language systems are malleable, and largely determined by power relationships that are always in flux.
Much like analysis, I suppose, it is slow going until the truth speaks, which then has to be read back into what seemed to be nothing but was in reality the coming-to-be of the truth, or at least of its saying.The essays that are in the shorter edition of the Écrits truly are the best ones here, so I would recommend starting there and getting a hold of the two essays mentioned above missing from that collection.As far as content goes, I will say three things that surprised me:1) Readers of Žižek should be unsurprised by the presence of Hegelian themes in Lacan's writings; what surprised me was how frequent and essential Lacan's own references to Hegel are.

(S XI, 16.2) “For, as I have said, without going into the mainspring of transference, it is ultimately the analyst’s desire that operates in psychoanalysis.The style of a philosophical conference inclines everyone, so it seems, to highlight instead his own impermeability.I am no more unable to do so than the next person, but in the field of psychoanalytic training, the displacement process makes teaching cacophonous.”Lacan himself tells you in countless scattered coded messages why he must gambol with language as he must.
I must be perverse because I find that reading Lacan makes lingering and longing with life a calmer, clearer experience.
Consciousness delineates unconsciousness.
Understanding delineates misunderstanding.
One must find oneself in Lacan's discourse, according to what one does and does not understand.
I'm not sure how else to describe this book, or how it should be approached - at least in layman's terms.
It's dense, it's difficult, and I wonder how much of it can be taken literally.
To take Lacan 'literally' one must take the literal for granted - which is, I think, to miss the point entirely.
The literal qua real is impossible; it is always deferred.
Bearing this is in mind -literally or otherwise - Ecrits is quite an enjoyable, at times god-awfully infuriating read.
Umm...okay so I didn't technically "finish" this book because no non-Lacanian psychotherapist really has ever finished this book, at least to my knowledge. It's nonetheless worth reading the few chapters I did to remember how dumb you are, or how smart you are, depending upon the outcome. And if you like someone who uses mathematical equations to explain meta-psychology, this is your book buddy!
Use this book as a door stop or as an intellectual book shelf bastion that will immediately impress anyone uncritical enough to be friends with lacanian psychoanalysis
It makes complete sense when you are high. The pay-off isn't worth the effort unless you have that much spare time.
Evóquese esa ausencia de una manera más precisa haciéndole llevar un lindo postizo bajo un disfraz de baile, y ya se me dirá qué ocurre, o, más bien, me lo dirá ella; tendrá mucho que contar al respecto." (Pág.310)La lógica es aquí más compleja de lo que puede parecer: no es meramente que el pene evidentemente falso evoque la ausencia del pene «real»; en un paralelismo estricto con la pintura de Parrhasios, la primera reacción del hombre al ver los contornos del falso pene es: «¡Quítate ese falso y ridículo pene y muéstrame lo que tienes debajo!».
Ignore the star rating for this one.
I'm not sure why I really bothered.
It's dense, in places not readily comprehensible, and even with a reading guide (which I had and HIGHLY suggest you have if you want to take this on), I still struggled through it.
In fact, the last two hundred pages were more an exercise in skim reading than anything.
Some of the ideas presented were intriguing for sure, and I certainly won't discount Lacan's clear genius.
You just have to wade through a lot of highly intellectual discourse and theory to find it.
A very good translation that presents, as much as is possible, Lacan's language play. If read solely to extract information, the book can provide some resistance and can become frustrating. I would recommend reading with (as much as is possible) an eye and ear towards appreciating the artistry in which Lacan couches his concepts. In my experience this approach makes the material both more accessible and infinitely more fun.
En una época en que el psicoanálisis se había convertido en "la pedagogía materna, la ayuda samaritana y la maestría dialéctica", Lacan propone un reterno a Freud:"Ya se dé por agente de curación, de formación o de sondeo, el psicoanálisis no tiene sino un medium: la palabra del paciente. La evidencia del hecho no excusa que se le desatienda."Estos Escritos, de una y otra forma, nos invitan a volcarnos nuevamente a escuchar la palabra del paciente.
I listened to a podcast where they described Lacan's writing style well. It's as though you are trying to play a game of tic-tac-toe by describing your moves to someone who has never played the game and saying "x to right corner." I'm that person who has never played tic-tac-toe and also thinks tic-tac-toe is mostly bullshit.
A poetic work that marries the diverse, complex fields of Freudian psychoanalysis and linguistics. Conceptually rich and certainly of worth to developing one's critical theories. The poetic language ensures a degree of inscrutability, but I suppose complexity of thought will inevitably reflect in style.
4.5I've spent the past week with I Feel You by Chaka Khan stuck in my head except every time the dude in the intro says "Chaka Khan" it's replaced with "Jaques Lacan" and it won't leave me alone. This is a pain I didn't expect to have to live with.
Mind-blowing. If you take the time to actually wrap your mind around these concepts they can do some powerful things for how you view yourself, others, and the world.
Opaque and lucid in equal parts, this is a challenging but rewarding read. Beware: not to be read idly or without guidance.
Difficult. But amazing. And totally worth the very intense effort required.
I love the density his prose, how he circles round his subject nibbling away at the edges to get to the center... a kind of poetry.
Awesome! Awesome! Awesome! Had to take a semester off of college, decided to read some of the most difficult books possible - Thanks Lacan!
Once upon a time, I saw this book and laughed.Why?
Am I stupid or something?I then tried to just power through it like I've done with other books.
Not possible.I had to put it down.Now over a year later, it makes sense.
I don't know how I could be without this thing in the professional world.
It's the only clarity in a confusingly unclear world.
I heard that when Lacan gave Heidegger a copy of the Écrits, Heidegger said, "the doctor needs a doctor".
I think that's a key to unlocking it all in a sense.
Understand that and you understand Lacan.
