https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59651.Hard_Times
I've heard Terkel denigrated as an overly sentimental historian, but I found a useful cross-section of American society and their recollections of the Great Depression. The suffering was not distributed equally, as Terkel finds business owners and some stars who did not see much change, and the very poorest who were used to it anyway. Roosevelt was not universally popular or beloved, but he still dominated the elections just by doing -something-. Terkel even includes interviews from the Baby Boomers, who saw the depression as just a word and never experienced it.
Brother, can you spare a dime?Once in khaki suits, gee we looked swell, Full of that Yankee Doodly Dum, Half a million boots went slogging through Hell, And I was the kid with the drum!Say, don't you remember, they called me Al; it was Al all the time.
Buddy, can you spare a dime?Once in khaki suits, gee we looked swell, Full of that Yankee Doodly Dum, Half a million boots went slogging through Hell, And I was the kid with the drum!Say, don't you remember, they called me Al; it was Al all the time.
This is a great collection of reminiscences from those who lived through the Depression. What was striking to me was the variety of experience - I know it should be obvious, but I kind of thought that EVERYONE was dirt poor and riding the rails, and of course that's not true. The Depression affected everyone, but in different ways - and that really comes through here. I would say this is an absolute must-read for anyone studying or curious about the Depression.
It is said that human memory only lasts about 1 generation, or 80 years.
It is now a little more than 80 years since the inception of the Great Depression, and it appears we're destined to make many of the same mistakes that were made way back then.Anyway, the overall theme of virtually every one of the people Terkel interviewed is that they have been scarred.
I think many of the hoarding issues you see with older folks are a direct result of the poverty inflicted during the Great Depression.
My own folks were children growing up then, and they still look back at the 'dirty 30s' in horror.
Because great novels capture real human emotions and reactions at some momentous time -- oral histories do the same, with the emotions and reactions filtered only through memory, not a writer's imagination, and therefore are even closer to truth.At one point I would have been skeptical that "ordinary" people, interviewed about their own lives, could utter anything as profound, moving, or even truthful than the inventions of the greatest creative writers.
Studs Terkel's "Hard Times" is one of those great reminders that no matter how much progress is made in America things never really change.
It is a collection of interviews in the late 1960's with people of all ages and classes about what they remember or have been told about the Great Depression.
The results are like asking people today about the 1980's, certain things stick out because they affected you directly but everything else is a bit fuzzy.
It is fascinating reading about a time that has been mythologized almost beyond historical reality.
Per adulti.La Fallaci, in Intervista con la storia, scrive che ogni giornalista è in realtà uno storico.
Lei non era una giornalista pura: raccogliendo le risposte alterava il fenomeno mentre lo misurava, come direbbe uno scienziato.
Onesti innanzitutto nel senso che si dichiarano onestamente tali: si trovano davanti uno che ascolta, riporta e non giudica, e loro parlano e parlano, liberamente.
Terkel raccoglie dati, è questo il suo mestiere.Al lettore il compito di specularci sopra, in piena libertà.Altrove vedo un'ansia didascalica: giornalisti cui preme avvertire il lettore che l'intervistato è uno stronzo, o un corrotto, o un grand'uomo.
The amazing thing about this book is the impression I get that we are, in fact, living these times all over again.
The only difference was that mainstream politicians like Roosevelt were genuinely fearful of a revolution.
Those who were in their 20's at the time were more likely to recall it as a grand adventure.
Yet, this adds another interesting aspect in that the teen-age (and slightly older) children of these same subjects knew almost nothing other than "it was a bad time, my old man doesn't like to talk about it." One of the few college-age students who did possess a sophisticated understanding -- the son of a prominent self-made business leader -- became a spokesman for the Weathermen (and is probably now one of the 1%).
This was such an amazing book. I'd never read a written documentary before, but after having read this book I would have gladly read more. This was one of my assigned books for summer homework for my Junior AP English class, and definitely the best one I had to read. It's gritty and *real.* Considering today's economic and political climate, it should probably be a required read.
At 462 pages, Hard Times is a comprehensive undertaking, offering a 360-view of the Great Depression and the people who suffered, prospered and otherwise lived through it.
The book is just the "best of" interviews with a huge swath of people with memories of this time period, organized by chapters about farm life, city life, wall street, politicians, miners, labor organizers, preachers, radicals, factory workers, students, sales men, housewives, professors, celebrities - you name it!
The weakness of the work is it intentionally offers no history beyond personal recollection, and interviewees often use terms unfamiliar to contemporary readers.
For instance, in this book NRA stands for National Recovery Act, not the rifle association.
both from people who were there...
and with many themes still relevant to our current 1%-er society and the recent banking crisis...
But the forward added in 1986 was particularly prescient about the coming market crash of 2008 and makes for a chilling read:".....'Business Week' (Sept 1985) is singularly less sanguine.
A cover story is called 'The Casino Society'....
And futures enable people to play the markey without owning a single share of stock.
Frenzied finance that made Ponzi look like an amateur....
Regulations that came into being after the Crash of '29 have been loosened more than somewhat.
This is a highly worthwhile read....
I highly recommend it!(If you don't want to read the whole book, This American Life recently played a number of them on the Nov. 7 show.)The book has such a simple premise- Studs Terkel interviewed people about their experiences during the Great Depression.
He also interviews a few young people about what they knew about the period from their parents or grandparents.More than thirty years after the fact (when Terkel was interviewing them), nearly everyone has very vivid memories of this time and how it had an immense impact on their life.
So I started reading about the Great Depression to put the current situation into perspective.
It's a great book, it's full of incredible stories that would've been otherwise lost, but it can be tough to read at times.
Studs did a great job of collecting stories from every different perspective, people who lost everything, people who benefitted, kids who weren't even born until after.
She would make more money working but she wanted to get her full unemployment.
In this book, Terkel relays oral histories of people who were exposed to the Depression including farmers, politicians, industrialists, African Americans, artists.
It is history through the eyes of the common and not-so-common man.It strikes me that a book like this would be highly unlikely to be published today - - in the days where YouTube and blogging provide thousands of first person accounts of the world around us.
But the standalone oral histories didn't quite do it for me.Nonetheless, I would read more Terkel, but if I selected one of his books that focused on a historical event, I'd read a background book first on the event so I was a little more educated before delving into the histories.
Years ago, I read a wonderful Studs Terkel book called The Good War. It was a collection of oral history stories from World War II, and ever since, I've wanted to read another of Terkel's works.Hard Times is also collection of oral history stories, this time dealing with the Great Depression.
First, that President Roosevelt saved capitalism in America because if it weren't for the New Deal, the communists would have risen to power.
Second, that the New Deal was not in itself effective in saving the economy.
It makes you think a lot, this breathtaking variety of perception.
It sure gives gravity to the saying "you had to be there." Whatever you think you know you will be delighted to reconsider.
Not that it will shape your own opinion but you will come out feeling a lot more broad-minded.
If there's anything wrong with this phenomenal book is that perhaps those who already know about the time and key figures will have a smoother ride but that's about it and you will be swept away anyway.
Non-fiction book of the year so far for me and I have the feeling it will take something special to top it.
Studs Terkel wraps you up in the depression by interviewing not just those who experienced it but those who sculpted it, from labor agitators and left wing rabble-rousers to bureaucrats in the Roosevelt administration to industrialists and New Deal political opponents.
If this book has one fault, it is that it does have a tendency to romanticize the depression somewhat; many of the interviews with younger people come across as having an air of condescension about them, as if these people are somewhat lesser for having not experienced the 1930s.
It's one thing to read a scholarly piece which analyzes the trends and mindsets of the era, but quite another to read the first hand accounts of the people who lived and experienced it.
What I love the most about this book is that the interviews cover an amazingly diverse selection of people.
Individuals from all walks of life, social backgrounds, geographic regions, political parties, and professions are represented here.
One of the things that I found so fascinating about this book is how similar the ideologies of the individuals going through that depression were to viewpoints expressed today in the current economic client.
I am especially interested in the treatment of women (teenagers)in the hobo camps along the railways, and would love to talk to one of these women.The legend is, and I think it's recounted in Terkel's book somewhere, that the girls, who had to leave home and hit the rails (or roads), were protected from abuse by the men in the encampments, as a code of honor.
Mess with a girl "hobo", you were persona non grata in the camps.
There were about a quarter million or more, who couldn't be supported at home, so, hit the rails....
I had been meaning to read this one for years.
It was a good followup to Woody Guthrie's "House of Earth".
It's also a book that you can take in small doses over a period of time, even reading other things in between.
That allows you to better digest some of the stories being related in first-hand narratives.
Probably the most stunning thing about it for me was how so much of what was being said about the 1930's still rang true when the book was written in 1968 and, in fact, still rings true today.
Lots of stories here, including from a few people you've heard of (Rip Torn, Pauline Kael); those who did OK during the depression along with many who were impoverished during that time; true stories and some obviously not true stories. As always, Terkel had a great ability to get people to talk, and a great talent for editing the no doubt rambling conversation into compelling narratives.
Other reviewers really seem to love this book, but I found it PAINFULLY slow. Maybe the whole "oral history" thing just doesn't appeal to me. I found the 3-page vignettes too short and unedited to be terribly descriptive -- much less insightful. I kind of just felt like I was reading a 1970's version of a "#greatdepression" Twitter feed. Too spasmodic for me.
First hand stories of people from different walks of life and their memories during the Great Depression. Mr. Terkel prefixes each interview with an updated account of the person during the time period of the interview.I appreciated that Studs Terkel interviewed Cesar Chavez and included his story.
Humanity during the Depression era, as recalled by important people, the average Joe and many in between. The pages weave between touching moments and heartbreaking tragedy. It's also striking to notice many similarities between the Depression of the 30's and the recession of the late 2000's. Overall an interesting read and a nice reminder of perspective in our own lives.
Ok....I get the importance of this oral history. And I was fascinated by some of the accounts of the Depression, but this was a SLOG to get through. I'm going to be excerpting some of it for my class on early American superheroes this coming semester.
Well, RE-reading. Seems like a good time to bone up on the First Great Depression.
Really great.
This book should be required reading for everyone over the age of 25.
Thus, what the reader learns of the Great Depression is what Terkel thought of it, even though the details are supplied by his interviewees.Therein lies both the key to the book and its greatest weakness.
Terkel and his speakers, however, seem to have little understanding of the actual impact of responses to the depression by government, unions, and others, which actually introduced further irrationality into the economy and prolonged the depression.On the whole, this book provides useful insight into midcentury liberalism/leftism, but fails as an analysis of its main subject, the Great Depression.
I've never read a Terkel book the whole way through.
Terkel does not put his own slant on the work or the statements from his subjects.
No context, no opinion, no analysis.
I suppose the titles of chapters give subtle hints about context, his politics, etc.
It was suggested I read it for my own thinking about how I might lay out my book that I'm working on.
I see where the suggestion comes from, but I won't be writing a book in same vein.
It does give a great deal of knowledge about a particular subject.
