https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/773514.Emily_Climbs
Emily Climbs is the 2nd book in Lucy Maud Montgomerys Emily series, and it is near perfection in classic young adult literature.
Emily of New Moon was introducing characters, setting story lines, etc., but in this book Emily shines like a full moon over Prince Edward Island.
Emily is climbing that hill of success and her friends, and even her aunts start to believe she just may make it.
Her school age friends, Ilse, Perry, and her hearts love, Teddy, combine to produce many episodes that will make the reader laugh out loud and keep Emily in hot water with her very conservative aunts.
Emily Climbs (Emily of New Moon #2), L.M. MontgomeryEmily Climbs is the second in a series of novels by Lucy Maud Montgomery.
But in some respects, they will be right if they write me down as Emily."Emily Byrd Starr longs to attend Queen's Academy to earn her teaching license, but her tradition-bound relatives at New Moon refuse.
Emily must not write a word during her high-school education.
At first, Emily refuses the offer, unable to contemplate a life without any writing.
An agent pal of mine has a theory that you're either a "A Little Princess" kind of person, or a "A Secret Garden" kind of person. I'd argue that the same "2 kinds of people" rule could be created for Anne versus Emily. Me? I'm totally a "A Little Princess" girl, and while I do dearly love Anne, I'm so much more of an Emily. Which is interesting. B/c I think Little Princess-Anne and Secret Garden-Emily would more naturally correlate. Clearly, I'm an enigma. Even more clearly, I'm also thinking about this WAY too much....
My only complaints about this book are in the story itself - some characters I would have liked to see more of. That's it. The execution is flawless, hence the five stars. Emily Climbs picks up shortly after  Emily of New Moon . Our heroine is happily scribbling her days away in the company of her three besties when she learns that all three—Ilse, Perry, and Teddy—are going to high school a few towns away. Strict Aunt Elizabeth will only allow Emily to join them if the girl swears off writing fi
Never underestimate the ability of a Victorian/Edwardian heroine to not notice when a man is in love with her.Like most of Montgomery’s work, the book is episodic, with little overarching plot, but the characters still grow and change.
From Montgomery, one gathers that the average resident of Prince Edward Island in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries was obsessed with family histories, never forgot a scandal, and harbored a deep fear of French Canadians, Catholics, and Americans.Dean is easily the most developed and intriguing character, after Emily, and both the girl and the book take on a deeper, spookier and more mature aspect every time he shows up.
L.M. Montgomery's Emily series is, for me, not in the same class as Anne of Green Gables but it is still a very pleasant and enjoyable read.
Like Anne, Emily is feisty, intelligent, appealing and liable to get into scrapes.
In Emily Climbs she progresses through her teenage years.
Her single minded desire is to be an author and we see her having some small successes in this ambition.
I very much enjoy the way this author writes and although I do not feel that Emily Starr has the same magic as Anne Shirley, her story is still great fun to read.
So happy to get to know Emily better. So eager to see where her story goes in the last book. LM Montgomery is a treasure. Her books are my happy place.
This continuation of Emily's story was just as heart-warming and enchanting as the first book. Reading about Emily makes me feel happy, cozy and safe all at the same time, and I loved how in this sequel the setting actually changes as Emily grows up (which was not the case with the Anne of Green Gables series). The ending was a little bit surprising, because Emily made an unwise decision in my opinion. Nevertheless, I'm excited to pick up the last installment of this series very soon.
Aunt Elizabeth is Marilla without the sense of humor, and with a solid layer of scarring – from the accident with Jimmy to, probably, the fact that she is single in a time and place where spinsterhood is a wretched condition – to prevent most softer emotions … Aunt Laura has her moments, is loving and more willing and able to share it, but is prim and easily shocked.
I think I was too young to get hold of all of this the last time I read Emily, and so these three books were not as enjoyable as the sweet and lovely place that is Anne's Avonlea.
The Emily books have been with me for a longer time than most people I know.
How can one review such books, then?
I will only say that these books delight me to no end, and Emily Climbs is perhaps my favourite of the trilogy, because of the youthful dreaminess and enthusiasm of Emily, because it has so much about her writing and I don't know for what other reasons.
Montgomery's writing is beautiful and charming, she can make her characters so real and alive, and her books give me great joy.
The Anne books are more popular, but the Emily books are deeper and darker, and some of my favorite young adult literature.
Like Anne, Emily is an orphan, and goes to live with conservative relations.
Emily is a character of ups and downs -- people who dismiss L.M. Montgomery as a flowery girl's writer have never read the Emily books (or are idiots).
Montgomery's work is constantly under-estimated, and the way the books are marketed doesn't help (the flowery script, the swoony illustrations).
Загалом не маю нічого категорично проти першого пункту, але Монтгомері настільки тяжіє до певних сюжетних шаблонів, що оповідь вже бува зависає на межі саркастичного самоцитування, але чомусь побоюється її перетнути.
Натомість тема шаленого снобізму "перших колоністів" розкрита уповні і дуже не по-доброму.Друга книжка - це вже чесний янґ-адалт за сучасними стандартами (Емілі від 14 до 17), що суттєво впливає на проблематику.
Але небуквально - тут навіть про дівочу конкуренцію більше, ніж про перше кохання (і славабогині!) - зате багацько сторінок присвячено соціальним тонкощам (як з тим снобізмом) та тому, як Емілі оцінює власні шанси "вбудувати себе" в прийнятні рамки (і чи варто це взагалі робити).
1 star for being maddening-I desperately want to read the stories Emily writes!
One thing I've noticed with the Emily series is that LMM doesn't use haunting, mystical last lines, like in some of the Anne books.
And LMM doubted that she had crested the 'Alpine Path!' To get back to Emily, the lack of last lines like those don't take away from her books at all.
The last lines in the Emily books seem more to reveal Emily's voice.
I love comparisons, but sometimes they can detract from the unique values of books I compare with each other.
To jau varēja paredzēt.
Vispār es uz bibliotēku biju aizgājusi pēc Ingas Ābeles "Dunas", uz kuru man bija pienākusi rinda, vēl manu skatienu aizķēra Makjuana "Sestdiena", kindlā līdz pusei izlasīta stāv Nobela prēmijas autora Mo Jana grāmata, nemaz nerunājot par Tumana "Varonību Senajā Grieķijā", kuru jau pasen neesmu atvērusi, un faktu, ka tikko visai nopietni apsvēru pievienoties kādai no manām goodreads grupām, lai vēl šogad mēģinātu izlasīt "Ulisu".
Man ir tikai viens attaisnojums :) Manā bērnībā Montgomerijas grāmatas nebija pieejamas :D Es vairs pat necenšos kādu apmānīt, ka pie bērnu literatūras plaukta vienmēr eju tikai "lai paņemtu kaut ko bērniem".
Sliktāka un dumjāka es, domājams, no šīs vājības nepalikšu.
Look at this opening line!Emily Byrd Starr was alone in her room, in the old New Moon farmhouse at Blair Water, one stormy night in a February of the olden years before the world turned upside down.The pacing is choppy and the storyline perhaps overly anecdotal, but this is an appreciation, late though it may be.
And - of course - of Emily: ...a pig-headed person is one who is too stupid to see or understand the foolishness of a certain course and insists on taking it - insists, in short, on running full tilt into a stone wall.
However, the rule is that she must live with grumpy, old Aunt Ruth, who seemingly has stricter rules than Aunt Elizabeth did when Emily lived with her.
Her old teacher, who has helped guide her [Mr. Carpenter] says the time away from fiction will improve Emily's writing ability.
Yet still, her wild, imaginative mind can hardly fathom being separated from her beloved hobby.I am really anticipating the third and final Emily book now, to see how her story ends!
I adored this book 💜 Even though I’m an avid L.M. Montgomery fan, this is the first time I’m going through this series.
This is the second in the series and we continue following Emily as she grows into a young woman and beautiful writer.
I feel such a kinship to her thoughts and feelings on nature, people, and how so much beauty is running a constant thread through her mind and heart, just begging to get out and be shared with those around her.
I read somewhere that there are elements of autobiography in the Emily stories of Lucy Maud’s life.
This was probably my fourth or fifth re-read of my favorite of the Emily trilogy...
*cough* I came at it with a more critical eye than when I first read it (at 11...
which was 10 years ago...
okay wow) and I concede that a great deal of Emily's personality is a Mary-Sue-ish wish fulfillment on L.M. Montgomery's part, and the romantic tension between her and Teddy seems a little contrived and unnecessary.
But it's still a lovely book and maintains the level of dreamy whimsicality that one expects from a Montgomery novel, and several parts are downright hilarious.
I have read them so many times, and will most likely again.
Lucy Maud is my favourite writer in her style.
She makes me want to write, I have to write, the way Emily does in this series, when I read her works.
This is the second in the three Emily books, and while I liked the first one the very best, I can't give any less than the top billing for them all.
Like Anne, Emily's story never fades and gets less interesting.
It is so nice to find a writer that I can trust to never let me down.
The novel is an excellent continuation of "Emily of New Moon", though it lacks the intense psychological depth of the previous volume.
There are excellent foreshadowings of plot developments to come in the final book of the series.
Modern readers might be put off by the occasional intrusions of the author (disguised as a "biographer").
Sometimes these interruptions to the narrative flow simply underline a point which could have been made more effectively through dramatization.
However, fictional narrative rhetoric was different in the twenties when these books were written and the use of such methods was in fashion especially in works written for younger readers.
A solid three stars. I liked the depiction of small town gossip and nosiness into other people's business. I also like the way that the characters are rounded - even Aunt Ruth turns up trumps when it's really needed. I enjoyed it enough to go straight on to the third volume of the Emily trilogy.
The charm and gracefulness of this book and its heroine give it 5 stars; perhaps for me, as an author, it should be given six for the accurate and sometimes painful description of a writer's handling of rejections and final acceptance!
Emily finds some consolation in the beautiful landscape outside her window and in her friends, despite the various scrapes they get into.When some of her writing is actually published, her family begins to wonder if it might be worthwhile after all, and when it opens a possible opportunity to leave the area and write as a career, Emily is sorely tempted.The Emily books are more autobiographical than the Anne books, and if much of what Emily went through is what Maud went through, I can understand a bit why she was so unhappy as an adult.
It was the only book in my house that I haven't read--I have an old copy and just kept it around for looks...I thought I had gotten it at a garage sale or something.
I opened it and saw the inscription from my grandpa I hardly knew to my grandma I never met: "A Real Old Merry Christmas To Flossie From Art 12/25/27." It has opened up a family mystery because my mom didn't think they even knew each other then...my grandma only would have been 13.
The whole time I read it, I thought about her--did she like this book?
Was she like the main character, Emily?
I like the Emily books for their exploration of women making it as professional writers. However, the problem with the Emily trilogy is that the characters don't feel real in the way those in the Anne series do - they don't come to life and leap off the page with vivacity. Ilse, Teddy and Perry never feel as fully fleshed as characters like Diana, Gilbert and Marilla. Plus, Dean Priest gets creepier with every book.
I found the three Emily books, tattered hardcovers, in the discard pile in a library on Cape Cod when I was 13, and instantly adored them. It was not for about 15 years that they were reissued in paperback by Bantam, so were not widely known in the US at that point.This one, which follows Emily through high school and adolescence, is fascinating in its glimpse of school and social life.
I read Emily of New Moon well over a year ago and adored it. Why I waited so long to read this, I don't know because I love it even more! (I might even dare to say I like it more than Anne of Green Gables???)Emily Climbs is 5 stars for all the following wonderful reasons.I don't think I've ever related to more or sympathized more with a character than with Emily. She's precious and beautiful and so much like me it's somewhat creepy. But beautiful at the same time. For instance:  "Her characters
(I might even dare to say I like it more than Anne of Green Gables???)Emily Climbs is 5 stars for all the following wonderful reasons.I don't think I've ever related to more or sympathized more with a character than with Emily.
Some in a way that has me flailing hopelessly in love with them and others because I enjoy hating them (like Dean, and Andrew, and nearly all of Emily's relatives.) There's Ilse, Emily's best female friend who is so different from Emily but is her other half so well.
How Emily and Ilse love each other is beautiful.
5 StarsI love this book. The first (and second) time I read it, I was a bit disappointed with the end. But after reading Emily's Quest, I feel better. :D
Emily has always been fairly sober in temperament -- at least compared to a firecracker like Anne Shirley -- but she gains a new element of restraint and maturity in this volume.
I think I preferred this book to its predecessor.
Most of New Moon was spent establishing characters and settings; in this novel we get to see how a teenager on P.E.I. copes with the world.
Good stories pass too quickly.I might also mention that this book is less gloomy than New Moon.
I don't think anyone even dies.
An old favourite. Beautiful 'coming of age' story and love the descriptions.
5 StarsI love this book. The first (and second) time I read it, I was a bit disappointed with the end. But after reading Emily's Quest, I feel better. :D
