https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79787.The_Case_of_Comrade_Tulayev
As the great terror of the 1930's comes toward the end of it'scycle, Serge would highlight a truth of just why this time in history cannot be forgotten, or ever happen again.Relating to a set of stories, through the fate of a handful of characters, we start with two lowly bachelors, Kostia and Romachkin, who share a single squalid room in Moscow with just a partition down the middle for privacy, disaffected with the State, Kostia would come into possession of a gun, the gun he would fire at Central Committee member Comrade Tulayev as he stepped out of his chauffeur driven car, so right from the off we know who the killer is, any thoughts of a who-done-it are eradicated completely.
To him, people were individuals, responsible for the decisions they made and the actions they undertook; the self-justificatory claims to being a pawn caught in the inescapable determined destiny of Historical Necessity simply did not cut the mustard with this author.It is thus a fascinating ironical inversion that Serge performs at the outset of TCOCT; the titular Comrade Tulayev, a powerful but little known member of the Bolshevik Central Committee, is shot dead on a cold Moscow night during the waning period of the Great Purges.
Some parts of the book are riveting (if predictable, since the reader is apt to know much more about the excesses of Stalinism than Serge's contemporary readers).
He assumes his readers know more than a little about the Spanish Civil War, and throws around specifics as if he's talking to himself in his own head.
I was bored, irritable, and a little sick, and I didn't really like Victor Serge taking it for granted that readers' bodies of knowledge and social orientation are the same as his own.
Joseph Stalin and his henchmen are in the process of committing one of the twentieth century's greatest crimes in the rounding up, framing, trial and execution of their fellow Bolsheviks.
The book credited with first bringing the crimes of Stalin's reign to public notice is Arthur Koestler's Darkness at Noon, published in 1941.
Victor Serge, it is important to note, was writing his indictment before that, but he languished in exile, died in 1947 and an English translation of the book did not appear until 1950.
Μετά τις Ακυβέρνητες Πολιτείες του Τσίρκα , έψαχνα ένα δυνατό ανάγνωσμα ,τέτοιο που να με συνεπάρει.Ε λοιπόν το βρήκα και κυριολεκτικά με συγκλόνισε! Κυνηγός της αλήθειας ο Victor Serge.Παραθέτω δυο μόνο προτασούλες από το βιβλίο γιατί το επιθυμώ και γιατί θέλω να τις διαβάζω και να τις ξαναδιαβάζω:"Άπαξ και καταλάβει κανείς τη θεωρία της διαρκούς επανάστασης,πως να ζήσει,για ποιο λόγο να ζήσει,αν όχι για έναν υψηλό στόχο? ""...η χειρότερη περιπέτεια,η ανέλπιδη περιπέτεια,είναι το να επιζητείς την ακινησία σε μια εποχή όπου οι ήπειροι διαλύονται και πάνε ακυβέρνητες."
Nascido na Bélgica, inicialmente anarquista, quando aos vinte e nove anos chega à Rússia envolve-se com os bolcheviques e, juntamente com Trotsky, critica o regime estalinista.
vou ter de deixar com o marcador no meio...Mesmo desconfiando tratar-se de um livro muito "político", coisa que me cansa facilmente, arrisquei lê-lo.
Embora tenha algumas partes muito bonitas, tantas personagens e siglas e páginas e páginas em que só se fala de governo, partido, proletários, camaradas, marxistas, leninistas, socialistas, anarquistas, republicanos, sindicalistas, e ...
Para quem aprecia o género, este será um bom livro para aprofundar conhecimentos sobre a ditadura estalinista.
In the early twenty-first century, we have moved on to other illusions - other lies that intelligent people with good intentions and humane politics tell themselves and their supporters in order not to give aid and comfort to their enemies.First of all, this evades the central irony: that the Soviet Union did in fact defeat the Nazi regime.
There is no alternative.When thinking of obvious truths that are frequently denied by intellectuals, one that comes to mind is that the fall of the Soviet Union actually was not a victory of freedom over tyranny; in fact it was an unmitigated catastrophe for the vast majority of its inhabitants.
If there ever was a book to reinforce my father's grim warnings about "damn pinkos", here it is. Seeing as I've never lived in Stalin-era Soviet Union, I hesitate to mention how realistic this story is, but Jesus...Reads more like a short story collection, with each chapter serving as a mini-conflict for a specific character, all loosely connected around the random killing of the title comrade. If you need immediate gratification, just read chapter 4 ("To Build is to Perish") -- so scary to see what happens when a dimwit is given an insane amount of quick power.
Ένα τρομερό έργο από έναν μεγάλο συγγραφέα και ιστορική προσωπικότητα.
If you've read both works, you can't talk about The Case of Comrade Tulayev without Koestler's Darkness at Noon.
In a way, Serge finishes the thought that Koestler started in Darkness at Noon.
Serge bookends the novel with two chapters examining the the characters behind the titular case, the assassin of Comrade Tulayev and his neighbor, who bought the gun in order to kill Stalin, but found himself unable to act when presented with the golden opportunity.
The two years follwing the publication of Koestler's novel were when Serge did most of his work on Comrade Tulayev.
Likewise, I found the Communists’ maneuvering and killing during the Spanish Civil War interesting.What I didn't like were the character portrayals.
For me it felt that each character, and there are quite a number, are put into the story to deliver a message.
That message is clear - life in Stalinist Russia was absurd.
Tulayev is killed at the beginning of the book and the murder has to be found......but not really!
The death of Tulayev was simply a great excuse for wiping out inconvenient opponents, people with opposing opinions or any imagined enemy.
Good writing, but you can sum up in one sentence the message that is being delivered.
One of the best novels coming from Serge. Its pretty epic in its scope and enmeshes the lives of a lot of individuals persecuted by Stalinism and the Great Terror of the 1930's. For me, Serge has this kind of 'materialist mysticism', which makes the book a very deep novel. Great read.
„Jeder kommt an die Reihe, jeder auf seine Art.“ (S. 236)Das Monster Sozialismus frisst sich selber auf: Täter, wenngleich meist gutgläubige Stützen des Regimes, werden Opfer von Stalins Säuberungen. Anfangs episodenhaft geschrieben, ergibt sich ein beeindruckend-beklemmendes Bild eines totalitären Staates.
Some of it's great: the psychology of the key characters early on and the descriptions of places (small town, countryside, Moscow on a snowy night), and for as long as the deluge of words keeps coming it's pretty compelling.
But I dunno, isn't there a sense in which Serge is just too much an outsider to it all?
But in writing of Russians compelled and constrained by the revolution and their love of their country, isn't he just slightly over-reaching?
It's when he's lyrical and full of wonder at stars and people and forests that I start to love him, but there's just too little of all that here.
This is a fantastic book - hard to put downIt is set in the 1930s during Stalin's purges. It is a very atmospheric book, building up tension as lives are ingested, ground up and spat out of the mincer that was Stalin's Russia.Similar in some ways to Koestlers Darkness at Noon, but less well known. I am glad I stumbled upon it.

I started out not really knowing how like Nabokov Serge is, in that every part of the story is meaningful and intertwined with every other.
Anyway, I loved this book and I highly recommend it to people who like literature or who are interested in the history of Soviet Russia in the twenties and thirties, especially during the great purges.
It's not a history book, of course.I expect that people who aren't used to reading Russian literature would do well to write down all the important names with a quick summary as they encounter them, since even I, an old hand, had some trouble tracking.
I have a macabre penchant for gulag fiction, and this is my favourite of the lot.
While Koestler & Solzhenitsyn graphically portray interrogation and exile respectively, Serge takes a panoramic approach showing how a Stalinist purge rippled out from a random incident to ensnare old heroes and young zealots alike.
And he ought to know - having spent years in a Russian prison in the 1930s.
This is a masterfully constructed tale written in an immensely readable style, but it is the unique window into the remorseless machinery of a totalitarian state and its justifications that make this book essential cautionary reading.Sentus Libri 100 word reviews of overlooked books.
I will leave it to those with literary tastes and insight to comment on this as a work of fiction. It was a fascinating book, however -- and a work of real merit. I have one complaint, but won't mention it, since it has something of a spoiler effect. On now to the Unforgiving Years...
This Russian novel, written in 1940-2, while Serge was in exile, but not published in English until decades later, doesn't remind me of other big Russian novels - although set in 1936 in the reign of Stalin.
Except for this novel, was based on not imagination - what if Hitler had won?
- but based on the very real faked news of Russia, and it consequences.
Serge wrote some history books about the revolution and Russia too, but in a number of novels he went for the "truth" of what happened.
He wrote the book while Hitler and Stalin battled on the eastern front.
Da un passato lontano gli tornò intensa l’immagine di un giovane che soffocava nella cella, si sollevava attaccandosi alle sbarre della finestra, così da scorgere, di fronte alle schiere di finestre con le inferriate aperte su una facciata gialla, un cortile dove altri prigionieri segavano la legna, un cielo che lui avrebbe voluto bere a grandi sorsi… Quel prigioniero lontano ero io, un io di cui realmente non so se sia vivo o se sia morto, un io che mi è più estraneo di tanti fucilati del secolo scorso.
In national centrally-managed governments, the fact that they can't control Individual Will frequently comes into conflict with their policies.
This book shows what happens when a "we'll solve everything" government can't solve an "important" murder.
It shows that solving the murder becomes secondary to reestablishing control.
Who's in control, here?The setting of the book is pre-WWII Stalin's USSR.
They haven't had the kind of government that protects their rights and promotes their general welfare (increasingly, neither do we), but they are people to be admired and respected.
There are aspects of this which I confuse with Yury Dombrovsky; both Faculty of Useless Knowedge and Serge's Case of Comrade Tulayev affected me deeply. The gradual ratcheting in this one was amazing.
In prison, waiting to be shot, one of these revolutionaries writes: "We grew up amid struggle, escaping two profound captivities, that of old 'Holy Russia,' and that of the bourgeois West, at the same time we borrowed from these two worlds their most living elements: the spirit of inquiry, the transforming audacity ...
An officer returning from Spain, a hero of the civil war decides to speak out and fight back: "tell them that I'll yell at the top of my lungs, that I'll yell by myself, and that I'll yell underground, that I don't give a damn for a bullet in my head ...
The thing that bothers me most is the tragedy of Serge...This book is his thoughts, a Bolshevik, on the purges, deportations and the person of Stalin.
He fails to see that the cause of the failure lies in the ideal, that the ideea of communism is a wrong one.
He dose not see that the revolution was not betrayed...
but the Revolution betrayed them !!In the end Serge is a good guy, a marxist with a real sense of good and wrong, but his tragedy is to be a good guy on the bad side of history.
It’s sad that Serge let homage to overused overrated “contemporary (to him) international stylistic developments” damage what could have been one of the great works of the 20th century.There is no shortage nowadays of Stalin-expose literature available, and I’m finding it increasingly hard to read and evaluate these works because it’s not the fault of an author that he or she may have been the 25th author to deliver the same message instead of the first.
If only Serge had just written the damn thing like a normal author and let us really get close to these characters .
We see characters from quite an array of Russian social strata, but they are all vehemently political, they all sincerely (and oddly, to me) ascribe to abstract pledges of Communism and national identity, and when the Chief calls them to investigate a farcical murder, they all begin living in panic until resigning in some way to their arrests.The content here is fairly grim, and Serge attempts to champion the wrongful executions of innocent people as an assertion of individualism against a cosmic void.
Perhaps, it was just the timing of the reading as I was continuously distracted from the beginning with mother nature′s unleashing its annual wrath in Manila with the torrential downpour of monsoon rains, destroying my momentum with the book as it veered away my attention from the gruesome past of Soviet Russia to my present phobia of nonstop rains that had wrecked my equanimity for the last 2 years as the onslaught of the southwest monsoon amplified by global warming had developed this fear in me, more like the fear of the many helpless innocent Russian lives under the threat of Stalin′s wrath, a strange allegory with a more natural bend that perhaps made me disconnected with the novel altogether.I just thank God that I was able to find the strength to finish the book in spite of everything.
After Comrade Tulayev, a high-ranking government official is murdered after being dropped off at his house by his driver, a whole mechanism swings into action, ostensibly to find the killer but to actually scapegoat a few prominent persons who will "confess" to being behind the murder, even though each is no where near where it occurred.
Presciently, Serge describes how one of the suspects is summoned back to Moscow from holiday but when the train stops at a small station, he's then summoned to the office to take a phone call only to be arrested.
Lo mejor son los arquetipos humanos y políticos que se delinean bajo el manto opresivo de un Estado policial —el de Stalin, su retórica y sus purgas— con sus crueldades y sus absurdos, su pompa y sus mentiras (a las que todos se resignan), su miserable jerarquía.Lo que se me hizo extraño fue no poder agarrarme de un personaje protagónico (me hubiese quedado feliz muchísimo rato más con Kostia, el asesino improbable), y tener que entender la sucesión de diferentes motivaciones y suertes de los muchos otros que se van apareciendo.
Varios dicen que esta novela es la mejor de las que se han inspirado en los años de Stalin, pero al menos a mí me gustó mucho más Todo fluye, de Vasili Grossman.
