https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47748.Ransom
Recommended for teenagers above the age of twelve or so (but with the necessary caveat that Five Were Missing indeed does paint a rather intense scenario, as it certainly frightened me as a teenaged reader).Now finally, it appears that in 2012, Five Were Missing was republished and updated (I think under the title of Ransom) with references to cell phones, text messages and such, and if these references have simply been superimposed onto the original dialogue and scenarios without other textual and thematic changes (which is what often, if not what usually happens) I would strongly, no, I would actually very strongly suggest NOT reading the 2012 edition, and if interested read the original 1966 version instead (for while it is seemingly out of print, it is nevertheless still quite readily and cost effectively available used).
I picked up this one to have a break from another book i'm reading, but unfortunately, it was no better! None of the characters stood out for me, and i didn't really care about any of them to be honest.I didn't feel the suspense, I didn't care about any of the characters, I wasn't desperate to find out how it all ended and i found most of it to be dull, so it wasn't that great of a read for me. I have a couple of the authors other books, so i'm hoping they're better than this one.
At the very beginning of this book, it takes place on a bus, and five high school students are riding home (they are the last stops on the bus).
The kidnapper takes all of the kids far away from their homes high up into the mountains.
The only thing that I could really relate to in this book is that I watch this TV show, Criminal Minds, and they show some episodes where it is like this.
I would probably still recommend this book to someone though, so if you like suspense and mystery, you should read this book.
Ransom by Lois Duncan is a realistic fiction book.
The kids who were kidnapped were Marianne, Jesse, the one who wouldn't accept their situation well, Glenn, captain of the football team, Dexter, the loner, and Bruce, Glenn's younger brother and shadow.
I think the overall book could have been better.
The beginning was decent, but the kidnapping itself seemed a bit sudden to me.
The ending was terrible.
I kind of wish it didn't have such a stereotypical happy ending.
Overall, I didn't really like the book and I definitely wouldn't recommend it to anyone.
Glenn, Bruce, Marianne, Dexter, Jesse normally get off at the valley Gardens stop.
This can help everyone because if they try to do it on their own they might succeed but they wouldn't is as fast or as well as they would have when working with a teem.
I didn't really like the violence but it is that kind of what the book is about violence and kidnapping for money.
The teamwork they use is the thing I like most in the book.
I like the teem work because it is something everyone can use all the time.
I rated the book Ransom by Lois Duncan, which is a mystery fiction book, four stars.
In the book Ransom, there were quite a few characters.
There is Buck's friend Juan and five kids that get kidnapped with the names of Jesse, Marianne, Dexter, Bruce, and Glenn.
I rated this book four stars.
I thought it was pretty good overall.
I thought most of the characters became stronger as a group working together as the book went on.
My main wish for the book would have been the end of the book would've been more interesting, but overall, I thought it was pretty good.
The realistic fiction Ransom, by Lois Duncan is a good book with lots of times when you can't put it down.
It is about five kids that get kidnapped on their school bus right outside of Albuquerque, New Mexico.
They are kidnapped and held for ransom.
They are taken to a cabin high up in the mountains and try to find a way to escape without their parents needing to pay the ransom.
It had some slow parts but it also was hard to stop reading once you get to a certain part.
It was hard for me to relate to any of the characters considering I have never been kidnapped.
Ransom by Lois Duncan is a historical ficttion book.
This book takes place in Albuquerque, New Mexico in the 1960's.
The main characters are the kidnappers, the parents, Glenn, Bruce, Dexter, Marianne, and Jesse.
The five kids are kidnapped and taken to a cabin to be held for ransom.
The plot continues to develop until the end of the book.
I disliked this book.
I did not like how it ended.
My least favorite part was the end of the book.
My favorite part was the kids working together as a team.
I wish this book had more action.
I would not recommend this book to read.
Nancy Price – AdventureRansom by Lois DuncanRansom is about five teenagers, from a wealthy neighborhood, that are kidnapped on their way home from school. They are taken to a remote cabin in the woods and will all be held there until each of their families comes up with the ransom money. The teens join together to plan their escape.This adventure is told from the perspective of each of the five teenagers as well as their parents. Each character responds differently to the situation. They also help others in the story giving the reader a separate adventure for each character
Originally titled "Five Were Missing", I thought it was ok when I read it as a teen.
They have been kidnapped by three individuals who hold the students against their will while trying to make the parents pay a ransom to get them back.
Two of the students were brothers so the ransom would be more difficult to pull together for that family.
The kids know they must take things into their own hands when they realize their parents are not going to be able to do what the captors want.
This story is fast past, full of twist and turns and suspense.As a student this book would keep me very interested.
All these storylines are packed inside a school bus kidnapping situation, and it makes for a great "fast read."The only odd thing was the EXTREMELY abrupt ending.
Maybe there were limits on how long the books could be at the time, or maybe it was the author's choice, but while there was a happy ending, it kind of reminded me of a monorail train bumping into a brick wall for the abrupt halt to the story.This book was "nostalgic scary" for me.
Ransom by Lois Duncan is a historical fiction, suspense, horroe, action/adventure novel.
On some ransom thursday after school in Albequerque, New Mexico five kids, Glenn, Dexter, Bruce, Marianne, and Jesse were kidnapped.
Here, high up in the mountain of Albequerque, New Mexico reputations will be sacrificed, secrets will be relvealed and new love will blossom.
Suspense, death, love and action withh keep you wondering: will they make it out alive?
My favorite parts were when Jesse kissed Dexter, because I knew that they likes eachother and when Glenn showed his true self because I never really liked Glenn anyways.
I just wished that they gave you answers.Ransom Lois Duncan
Glenn Kirtland, a boy who is full of himself and selfish.
Finally, the last characters are the 3 kidnappers who kidnap the kids and hold them at a cabin for ransom.
The main plot is that the 3 kidnappers take the kids and hold them at a cabin high up in the cold mountains.
My favorite part of the book is when the kids make a plan to escape.
I did not like it because there was not enough suspense and action and it was a boring story.
I wish this book had more action and suspense in it.
It about these students that get kidnap while going home from school one day and there parent get a phone call asking for a ransom if they dint pay there will never see there kid again.The kid are working together and try to escape so there parent wont have to the ransom.
my favorite part of the book was see hoe the kid came together a try to escape .My least favorite part was the ending cause i would of like seeing the kid get home to there family that have been wait for days to see there child and it would be cool of the author would write about how they were doing afterwords.
They end up being captured by three adults, two men and one women, and taken up into the mountains to a cabin.
The children`are left with one of the two men and the women while the other one is calling in the ransoms.
I didn't really care for the book personally for about three reasons.
#1 is that I felt as if this book didn't have a good enough plot for such a short book.
I would only recommend this book to people that were looking for a short book that doesn't have to be amazing.
A pistol shot rang out across the night, and one of the running figures crumpled and fell” (Lois Duncan pg.100). Ransom by Lois Duncan is a horror/suspense type novel with lots of action. It is about five kids, Glenn and Bruce Kirtland, Jesse French, Marianne Paget, and Dexter Barton who get kidnapped and held for ransom in Albuquerque, New Mexico. The kids start off in a bus on the way to Valley Gardens where they live in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Then they see there is a substitute. Then one by
Ransom by Lois Duncan is a horror/suspense type novel with lots of action.
It is about five kids, Glenn and Bruce Kirtland, Jesse French, Marianne Paget, and Dexter Barton who get kidnapped and held for ransom in Albuquerque, New Mexico.
The kids start off in a bus on the way to Valley Gardens where they live in Albuquerque, New Mexico.
Once they get to Valley Gardens they start driving somewhere else, The kids slowly begin to realize they are being kidnapped and they are being taken to a far away cabin and are trying to escape.
Ransom, my Lois Duncan, is a suspenseful book and i rate it four stars.
In the book, Ransom, by Lois Duncan, five kids are kidnapped and asked for $15,000 ransom.
Glenn, Jesse, Bruce, Marianne, and Dexter all go to the same high school.
I liked the book Ransom, by Lois Duncan because it involved suspense and mystery.
The character I think I can most relate to is Jesse.
It want to know how the other parents reacted (especially Dexter's Uncle, Mark Crete, who didn't even know about the ransom because he was in Las Vegas, Nevada for a business meeting.).
The realistic fiction Ransom Is about five high school kids in Albuquerque getting kidnapped.
The is Glenn the conceited popular jock who everyone likes,Bruce Glenn's older brother who is always in his shadow,Dexter the one who is always alone trying to cheer up Jesse,Marianne she is tougher than she looks,and Jesse she gets scared,allot.Anyway the were kidnapped my a fake bus driver and are trying to find a way out.This book has a love interest and a devastating accident.I gave this book 3 stars because it wasn't at what i thought it was gonna be Glenn gets on my nerves talking about he can escape on his own.The end wasn't at all what i thought it was gonna be i might be for you but not for me.I thought it would be more adventures.
And that's why i gave the realistic novel Ransom 3 stars.
Ransom by Lois Duncan is a realistic fiction novel.
The setting of this novel is at a cabin in the mountains.
The major characters are Glenn which is selfish, Bruce Glenn's little brother, Jesse the crybaby, Maryann the shy one, and the kidnappers.
The main plot of this novel was that three kidnappers named Buck, Juan, and Rita kidnapped 5 students and took them to a cabin.
The parents have to pay the ransom all at once if they don't no one would see the kids again.
So are the parents gonna pay the ransom or will the kids find a way.
Lois Duncan is well known for her mysterious and suspenseful books.
Ransom is not an exception of the great novels written by Lois Duncan.
If you have read and enjoyed her other novels, you will like this one as well.
Duncan allows the reader to read the novel from different views.
The novel is written in a way that each character "says" what they see.
The five protagonists are interesting and high school students will probably relate to one of them in some way.
I would recommend this novel to anyone that enjoys suspense, specially teenagers.
The Book Ransom by Lois Duncan is a mystery/suspense novel about a kidnapping.
it is about five kids(Glenn,Bruce,Marianne,Jesse and Dexter) on there way home from school on the bus.
This book is about perservering through harships so they can escape and see there families again.
Although the ending disappointed me it was still a good book.
I felt like the ending just cut off and didn't give enough information.
My favorite character was Bruce because I liked how he stood up th Glenn at the end.
Overall I liked the plot and would recoommend this book to anyone looking for an easy quick read.
Ransom is a mystery/suspense fictional book by Louis Duncan.
The book is about a kidnapping that happens in Albuquerque, New Mexico.
Five kids are kidnapped when riding the bus home from school.
The kidnappers Buck, Rita, and Juan ask the parents for ransom.
I liked the book, it was really good.
I liked it because it had a lot of surprises that happened and it was exciting.
I couldn't relate to any of the characters in the book because I've never been kidnapped.
My favorite part was when the kids tried to escape.
My least favorite was when I found out Glenn just wanted popularity.
This book was an awesome adventure that made you keep thinking what's going to happen next. It stats out with a "substitute" bus driver who captures five kids who he assumes are rich because of the area they live in. All through the book it talks about the parents trying to figure out how to collect the ransom money and the kids trying to figure out how to get out of the cabin that is so far away from the nearest town. Great story, and well written I would defiantly suggest this book to read.
Ransom is written by Lois Duncan and the genre is suspense, I give it 5 stars.
Glenn, Bruce, Dexter, Jesse, and Marianne are kidnapped and held for ransom.
Will the parents be able to pay the ransom or will they never see their kids again?
That is the mystery you have to read to find out.
Through the book you see the characters change in many ways, like take Bruce for example, he started out wimpy but became brave and strong.
I really liked Ransom it's a good suspense book.
It's interesting how 1 kidnapping can change a persons life like that!
I read the book  Ransom  by Lois Duncan.
At the beginning, 5 kids get kidnapped from school in New Mexico.
They got taken to a cabin on a mountain in New Mexico.
One of the character's step-dad, Rod, travels to the cabin to try to get the kids.
If you want to know the rest, you have to read the book.
Overall, I wasn't pleased with the book.
I think of myself as Glenn.
My favorite character is Glenn.
My favorite part was when Glenn crashed his car.
I probably wouldn't recommend this book to anyone.
this is a great book. it teaches how family is reunited when they seem to have problems. why it has to always be through scary circumstances, i'll never understand, but that's the way it is. when a girl's new step father offers her a ride home, she refuses because she wants HER father. in the process of doing so, she gets herself kidnapped, along with 4 others in her neighberhood. if each one of them had gone on the other path that they had, they could have prevented any kidnappings.
I found this book today, after 10 years of it not crossing my mind, and I was instantly transported back to a simpler time when my grandparents would pass off books to me that they weren't interested in. I really loved this book. The minute I looked at the cover, even after all these years, I remembered everything about it. The story had fascinated and scared me at the time, and I feel like I was satisfied by the ending. This makes me want to read it all over again.
Read this in junior high . . . wish I had all that time to read again! Lois Duncan was one of my favorites.
I thought it was good, the beginning was pretty boring, but once you get into it it gets better. At the end it was really good. The details at the end were really good.
