https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1160780.Laughing_Boy
But beyond that, it seems to speak to a time and place when the Navajos were caught between the influence of the American way of life due to westward expansion and the customs and traditions of their own people.
She wants to find her way back to the Navajo way of life, yet she wants to live separately from the people, settling at the outskirts of town with Laughing Boy rather than with his tribe.
This is a stunning novel when you really reflect further, given the fact we as readers know what happens to this way of life and the Navajo people.
Been extra busy in real life for one thing, but also because after I do a review, I have to acknowledge to myself that the book I have just read is actually finished.
And other times I don't want to let the world of that particular book go quite so quickly.Laughing Boy fits into the last category.
The story is of a traditional young Navajo who meets and falls in love with a Navajo girl who had been taken off the reservation and educated in the white man's way.
Did she stand for the temptations of the white man's world, while Laughing Boy stood for the traditional Navajo lifestyle?
Visit Laughing Boy's world.
She appreciates the simplicity of the minds of her dark-skinned friends, without sentimentalizing over them…and with the heart of a poet and the eye of a painter she has revealed the soul of a people whom civilization has never touched.” But I digress.)Anyway, Laughing Boy is a whole lot better than Sister Scarlet Mary, in fact it’s good enough that I would recommend it to anyone interested in Navajo history.
The tension driving the novel is a huge secret Slim Girl hides from Laughing Boy, and under that secret is another one even deeper.Oliver La Farge clearly spent a lot of time around Navajos, and his depiction of the culture is rich with detail that feels true.
Şi acum, iată, încă un roman superb (titlul original: Laughing Boy), câştigător al Pulitzer Prize în 1930.Dragostea nu moare ne introduce în lumea indienilor Navajo şi a stilului lor de viaţă de la începutul secolului 20.
Împreună vor încerca să păşească pe "calea aşternută cu frumuseţe" (minunată metaforă pentru viaţa plină de dragoste şi înţelegere, ce respectă regulile lăsate din moşi-strămoşi)...
Toate aceste detalii nu sunt ficţionale, ci desprinse din realitatea vremii (autorul, fiind şi antropolog, a trăit ani de zile în rezervaţii, a învăţat obiceiurile şi limba indienilor, scriind ulterior şi un alfabetar Navajo).
I am giving this a full 5 stars because I "feel" as if this book gives genuine insight into the Native American (specifically Navajo) culture, society, and particularly belief system.
However, this was written by a "white guy" and this is one of the few times in my life when I'm questioning the overall authenticity of the writing/expression of Navajo life at the time.
Although La Farge was an anthropologist who studied Native American culture extensively, so I presume this is as close as we might get to authentic?
Set in the early 20th century, this is the story of the relationship between two Navajo youth who meet at a communal dance and fall instantly in love.
But this marriage is fraught with difficulties as Laughing Boy comes from a traditional Navajo upbringing, but Slim Girl has been westernized during her years at a boarding school and has lost all tribal and family connections.
Based on the author’s observations during his time in Navajo country, this book contains interesting descriptions of Navajo customs.
Unfortunately, reading it nearly a century after its publication, it had a patronizing feel to much of its portrayal of this society and its values.
Eine wirklich tolle Prämisse für eine dramatische Liebesgeschichte mit einem gewissen exotischen Touch.Doch leider sind es genau diese neuartigen Elemente, die einem den Zugang zur Geschichte erheblich erschweren.Da der Autor Anthropologe ist, merkt man, dass ihn die indianischen Kulturen und Stämme sehr interessieren und er auch eine bestimmte Zeit bei den Indianern verbracht hat.
Ganz besonders interessant ist, wie Schlankes-Mädchen für den Großteil des Buches überhaupt nicht den Standards eines indianischen Mädchens entspricht und deswegen zunehmend Angst hat, Lachender-Knabe an die Kultur, der sie eigentlich angehören will, wieder zu verlieren.
It was strong, pure stuff, real Northern Navajo work, untouched by European influence.
Slim Girl imagines a life ‘in a place where the agent’s men never came to snatch little children from their parents and send them off to school.’The landscapes, journeys, horses, weaving, silver making, housekeeping - all fascinating, especially the odd mash-ups of Navajo and white settlers’ worlds, such as the wedding banquet that started with yellow corn and then entailed canned tomatoes, pears, plums, beans, candies, pop, white bread, coffee with plenty of sugar, and whiskey with orange and lemon.It’s a tragedy, in the end, on a few levels.
Laughing Boy by Oliver La FargeFabulous, one of the best novels I have read, 11 out of 10!!This book has had a big emotional impact on me.It is not just one of the best books I have read, but also one that has made me joyful and then sad in turns.And it made again very clear why it is so exhilarating to read great literature:- When you read a wonderful masterpiece, you engage with it and reach a state of Flow, as described in the psychology classic of the same name- The reader has the fantastic

It tells Laughing Boy's life these few years with high context for his own individuality, his own self-identity, his own cultural bench marks- what would be at times, now considered, base values for full adulthood and strongest autonomy.But it also tells Slim Girl's story in a secondary slant to the American contact and influence reality of the then current Navajo adjustment to Americans.
By the art of his excellent writing and observation skills too- you would believe so.Maybe this book should just be taken simple without the analysis to acts that I can't seem to ignore.
Oliver La Farge 1901-1920 is the writer.The story is a good depiction of Navajo life and the coming of age of "Laughing Boy," a young Navajo Indian who meets Slim Girl at a ceremonial Indian dance.
The central conflicts in the story deal with Laughing Boy and Slim Girl's dealing with American culture.
At one point, Laughing Boy and his friends arrive at an Indian trading post.
After getting the coffee, he smiles and tells the owner that he changed his mind, then wonders why the owner became angry.What Laughing Boy doesn't realize is that Slim Girl is leading a double life.
The only reason it isn't getting a five star is that I won't read it a second time, which is the absolute prerequisite to getting full marks from me.
I don't know what La Farge's later works are like but this, his Pulitzer Prize winning debut, feels very much like a loving article on something rather than a story set against a certain background at times.
I would hazard a guess that he - the American who lived with the Navajo and treasured their life style so much - felt closest to her.
I don't know who Oliver La Farge is...I should google him...but he knows how to think like a Navajo (in my humble Caucasian opinion).
I've spent a teensy amount of time in the Southwest hiking on my own, looking at petroglyphs, reading interpretive signs at national parks, and even listening to some audio in the car about how to learn the language (I found some similarities in learning Japanese), but in the end, I'm not an Indian.
I am especially not a Navajo.
The writing is clear and symbolic at the same time.
Having lived in Arizona for nearly 40 years, I was eager to read this Pulitzer Prize winner for a GR book group. This is the first novel La Farge (an anthropologist) wrote after his studies/travels in the Southwest. The novel gave me food-for-thought because although our favorite hiking trails are in Navajo and Apache counties and we spend our summers in Navajo county, I don't have any friends who are Native American. The Native Americans live separately on The Reservation and come into town for shopping and dining. They sell their jewelry, pottery, and rugs at local craft fairs.
3.5 stars. An interesting, engaging read about a young Navajo couple, set in Arizona in the early 1900s. Laughing Boy is a young Navajo brave who is a good horse trader and jeweller. Slim Girl has had a troublesome past. Slim Girl, a Navajo who was raised as an American by a pastor and his wife. This novel is a quick read giving a good insight into Navajo customs. The writing seemed a little awkward in parts. Nevertheless a worthwhile read. This book won the 1930 Pulitzer Prize.
This book was written in 1927 and was groundbreaking in its time as all the main characters are Navajo. The story and style grew on me . Appears to give a realistic view point from Native American culture.
I didn't like this. Not even a little.
And I had almost lost my faith in you, 1920s.Laughing Boy purports to be about the titular character, a young man who has lived his whole life on the reservation, but the real star of the story is Slim Girl, the woman he falls in love with.
And both explore the consequences and misunderstandings that arise when this tribal culture clashes with a “civilized” one.If there’s one thing that maybe (maybe!) surprised me more than the appearance of a woman who subverts the madonna/whore trope, it was the unflinching and ruthless way La Farge depicts American/Native American relations during this time period, everything from the casually ignorant racism of a local goods trader to the brutal atrocities that were the Indian Schools.
He makes his setting and characters complex and interesting and develops each with the skill of an artist.
He presents the mood of the story through the setting.
La Farge describes the personalities of his characters in the same manner as he describes the setting.
An example of this is the way in which he correlates the belief that the gods are present during certain Indiana dances with the Christian belief that communion supper is the blood and body of Christ.
Through his masterful style, he causes the reader to agree with Laughing Boy and see her true beauty.
[return][return]Laughing Boy, a young Navajo man in 1915, meets, during a religious healing dance, Slim Girl, who was taken from the reservation at a very young age to a school in California that did its best to erase her identity as a Navajo and make her into an American.
Laughing Boy falls in love with her and the two move away from his area on the Northern Reservation to a small town in the southern section.[return][return]The story of Laughing Boy and Slim Girl and the life that they forge together is beautifully told in concise prose with a rhythm that may or may not reflect the Navajo language but certainly gives the appearance of authenticity.
La Farge, as an anthropologist, writes an insider's viewpoint of the story as if he were Navaho himself and the novel certainly tries to present a sympathetic view of the Natives.
Far more important, moving, and worthy of a Pulitzer, I would suggest reading a novel published in the same decade, by a Native, called The Surrounded by D'Arcy McNickle.
But the Pulitzer Prize Committee would have never even considered reading a Native-American author in that decade, so I suppose I should be grateful that Laughing Boy won, because it was a shift in the glacial/cultural thaw.
I was happy to find Laughing Boy in the "Classics of the West" section because it is one of those books I've always wanted to read but have never gotten around to.
I'm glad I waited -- because driving through Navajo country - southwestern Colorado and on into Utah- provided the perfect backdrop for reading a book that is so full of the flavor of what life was once like for the people who lived in this beautiful place.
Filled with descriptions of Navajo ceremonies, traditions and poetry, the book also paints a sad picture about the tragedy that befell the Navajo people whose way of life was changed forever with the coming of the Americans.
This book is about romance, with tradition, with a native way of life that American-educated Slim Girl wants to return to, and which Laughing Boy belongs to.
In him, she finds her redemption.
In her, he finds derring do and passion.
And as all great stories go, as it is with Laughing Boy, whether in books or in movies, love is a journey, transcending boundaries for the sake of each other.
What you are left with is a love story that is ordinary and epic at the same time.
In the Foreword, La Farge writes about the time he spent living among the Navajos, an experience he obviously enjoyed:By and large, the Navajos liked the way they were living, they felt secure, they enjoyed life, they knew how to have fun, they were wonderfully friendly.He set his story before his visit, in 1915, in order to contrast the old way with the rapidly encroaching new ways, the ways of the 'American.' Here, he uses two young people, both Navajo, one raised in a traditional family, one taken away to a boarding school, to show the collision of the cultures.
A wonderfully crafted tragic story of two Navajos, finding love with each other and dealing with a new world (Americanized) and his family (traditional) within their broader culture.
Clearly an indictment of the American tendency often to destroy cultures and replace and mold them with Western ideas, especially the taking away of native children to the Carlysle schools; but it is also a good story of a true love affair.
I wonder how the Navajo reacted to it---did he get their story right?
At first I thought I was misunderstanding or reading into it improperly, but I became more and more sure, My God, she's hookin'!
I always have the impression that things were very repressed and simply-not-said back then, and that we are so very loose, open, and modern now, but there was a whole lot going on in this book that I wouldn't have thought could get published in 1930.
I know that books like To Kill a Mockingbird and Huckleberry Finn can't pass muster and end up on the banned list, so I was shocked this one made it through.
Set in the early 20th century, it tells the story of a young brave, Laughing Boy, who falls in love with Slim Girl.
Their story is one of love and hope, of betrayal and despair.
There is much foreshadowing throughout the book of a tragic end, and though I was still surprised by what actually happened, it seemed like a perfect fit for the rest of the story.
The writing style is another part of what turns the book into a real gem.
It's a perfect fit for the subject matter."In beauty it is finished."
"He was riding the hundred miles from T'o Tlakai to Tse Lani to attend a dance, or rather, for the horse-racing that would come afterwards." "He" is Laughing boy, a Navajo youth who loves his people, his traditions, horses, and eventually, Slim Girl.
When Laughing Boy falls in love with Slim Girl, his people do not approve.
Through the course of this lovely and sometimes sad novel we gradually learn what it is that sets Slim Girl apart from others, and the reasons why she behaves as she does.
This book was an attempt to write about Navajo people through an interesting perspective of a navajo girl who had been taken out of her home and sent away to school.
Isolated from her people, culture, and family she became more "American" than Navajo.
She attempts to get back into her culture by marrying a traditional Navajo but she lies to him about her actions and causes life to go awry.
I thought the writer also showed the male character in a naive manner due to his being a traditional Navajo and I really didn't like that either.
It is a love story set in the early 1900s in Arizona between a Navajo brave named Laughing Boy and Slim Girl, a Navajo who has come back to her people after being raised as an American.
The book gives a lot of insight into the Navajo people and shows the clash between the Navajos and Americans in their lifestyles and beliefs.
Slim Girl wants to come back to her people but her past keeps raising obstacles.
They mystery of Slim Girl's past and what happens when she is in town highlight the story.
