https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78164.The_Age_of_Voltaire

I do not wish to belittle reason, but it should be the servant of love, not of pride With this volume we reach the third chapter in the Age of Reason, culminating in the figure of Voltaire, who died a decade before the French Revolution. The Age of Voltaire is somewhat different from the preceding volumes in that it isn’t simply a narrative history of Europe during a given time period, divided by country and topic, but instead structures itself around the life of one man: Voltaire. This proves
The translation succeeds, the experiments in both science and love fail, and Voltaire eventually moves on to Prussia on the invitation of Frederick the Great.Durant takes this opportunity to cover the life and music of Johann Sebastian Bach, who is neither witty nor fashionable, and consequently not famous during his lifetime, but whose works will nevertheless survive long after Voltaire’s vanish.
These are the French intellectuals, not necessarily philosophers in the strict sense, who attempt to reform the world with reason.
A terrific find at a used book sale. I have seen this at antique markets but the seller usually wants to unload a full set. This is old school history, as opposed to the revisionism peddled today. The section about Georgian London with all its highs and lows is especially compelling. Absolutely first rate, it's a shame that we don't see these great volumes in ePub format. Written in 1965. Just 13 reviews here while pure junk gets tens of thousands...oh well...UPDATE - I found this series on the Kobo site in Epub format, now reading the Louis XIV volume.
I love this series: however I've read so much history that I skipped things that are familiar, concentrating on the historical characters and their interaction.
It is the story of western European history from the early 1700's to about 1750.
He was a philosopher and the Durrants see this as a period when these countries threw off their religious beliefs and that Voltaire was a great influence in that.
Previously countries picked one religion and governed by that.
With so many beliefs governments expelled the ones they didn't like and ignored others.
I love the detail.
Will and Ariel Durants' Story of Civilization series is unlike most histories in that they pay considerable attention to the lives of ordinary persons, and women, in addition to describing the political, cultural and scientific 'accomplishments' of great men. Will Durant is especially good in explicating the history of ideas as this volume demonstrates, primarily in the field of political philosophy.
The Durants do it (did it) again!
Volume 9 of 11 in the 10,000 some-odd page Story of Civilization.
If it wasn't for the audiobook format, I might still be on the first volume!The myopic focus on France, Britain, and Germany in this volume is both a pity and a necessity.
There simply wouldn't have been time for the Durants to focus on the development of philosophy and economics in these countries in any shorter space.
That said, it is still a pity.
At least the Durants acknowledged it as such.--A more complete review to follow, if I ever get the time!
Wonderful book that does much to explain the age we live in now.
The book ends with an interesting discussion of the Age of Reason and the reasons for faith.
As a Unitarian Universalist, it is fascinating to me how much Unitarianism weaves into Will Durant's later volumes of his History of Civilization.
I also adore Will Durant's use of language which is full of humor and interest, which adds so much life and vitality to his topic.
Can't wait to read his remaining two volumes.
However, I will give them a break for a while, but will definitely return to read the final volumes.
The authors bring the 18th Century to life. It seems very much like our time because there are financial scandals and incredible scientific progress in the midst of wars and extreme poverty, and there's a lot of energy by people who are trying to make the world a better place. What I like best about the Durant books is the gentle humor and feeling of kindness. You can feel that they loved writing the books.
This review applies to all Durant's History of Civilization. The author does not follow a strictly chronological approach, but emphasizes those events/personages that have developed our Western civilization. He tends to emphasize certain personalities - some of whom I take exception to - but he stresses those things which make Western man unique. The arts have a prominent place in developing our culture and Durant convinces the reader how important they are.
Excellent as usual. The epilogue (a dialogue between Voltaire and Pope Benedict) is one of the best written and most even-handed debates between conservatism and liberalism (what Thomas Sowell has dubbed the conflict between the constrained and unconstrained visions) I've ever read.
After the past several volumes this one went down a lot smoother for me. Perhaps I'm getting giddy at the idea of getting near finishing this bohemeath! After this it will be Gibbon's Rise and Fall of the Roman Empire.
Wow. I have two volumes remaining in the eleven-volume "The Story of Civilization," after which I'll review the set. Meanwhile I'll simply note that this has been one of the great reads of my life so far.
This was a great leap forward in my understanding of the Age of Reason. Some of their asides are downright captivating. I'd recommend this to anyone with an interest in understanding how the modern world was created,as long as they had an awful lot of free time on their hands.
Those pioneers lived in an age when men were burned at the stake or broken on the wheel for deviating from orthodoxy, and yet they succeeded in laying the foundations of science and philosophy, of reason and conscience, of tolerance and justice, which was largely absent in the thousand years preceding.
When we cease to honor Voltaire, we shall be unworthy of freedom.”But there was one other fine thought expressed by Diderot, true to me today, that expresses the infinite human condition at the apex of honest humility and tender nobility:“I do not condemn the pleasure of the senses.
The decision of telling the story of the Age of Reason by following Voltaire on his travels, correspondence and quarrels works very well, for it allows coverage of the great personages of the time: Louis XIV, the Hanoverian kings of Britain, Frederick the Great, Maria Theresa.
This volume is more a story of ideas than of political or military events, and being less wide-ranging geographically than its predecessors, it is more focused and satisfying.
I came away from the book with greater respect for figures like Haendel and Diderot.
In this book I found that some philosophes like Holbach lived exemplary lives.
This a history painted by the personalities of the era.
Frederick the Great of Prussia comes off as a sad figure, abused as a child, a truly intelligent leader, the times make the man and the times made him a military genius.
The Durants must have loved music and their do a wonderful job bringing the elder Back and Handel to life.If this book has a weakness, it is that accounts of Voltaire divided into multiple sections so that one doesn't get a clear idea of the man until late in the book.

أخيرا بعد ثلاث محاولات فاشلة منذ أكثر من سنتين أعود لأنهى هذا الكتاب وبطبيعة الحال أضاف الكثير والكث
يمكن القول إجمالا بأنه حتي منتصف القرن الثامن عشر كانت إنجلترا بارعة سياسياً ومتقدمة تجارياً وأكثر سطوة حربياً وخائبة فنياً، وأعلي السُلم الإجتماعي وأسفله كانوا يمثلون المسخ الأخلاقى بكافة صوره. الواقع الفرنسى لم يختلف عن هذه الصورة كثيراً إلا في ظهور التفوق الإنجليزى في الجوانب السياسية والحربية والتجارية.
I am surely, but slowwwwly, working my way through the Durant's truly magisterial "Civilization" series and the effort of the 17th Century matches its predecessors in both its scope and breadth. You all know the honours this brilliant series earned. Trust me, each was well deserved.
A re-read, though I only skimmed it this time. It’s a sturdily written, enlightening (no pun intended) book. Durant’s summaries (see his overview of Hume, for example) and biographical snapshots are terrific. The flavor and sweep of the Enlightenment era is captured wonderfully.
I put this book into the "literature" bookshelf because it is so beautifully written. This book is a series, which I am sure goes unchallenged as far as the writing. Both Will and Ariel Durant are without peer. Truly.
This felt like a more representative work of Durant's, as it dealt with one of his central concerns: the interplay of religion (feeling) and philosophy (reason).
Civilization in Western Europe from 1715 to 1756 ... Emphasis on the Conflict Between Religion and Philosophy. 898 pages. Donated to the library 2010 March.
One of Durant's best-chock-full-of-nuts!
His conclusion, a dialogue between a pope and Voltaire, makes plain his attitude that the tumultuous era his history is heading into is one of mixed blessings; while Durant is thankful that the rise of the philosophes advanced human liberty, checking the abuses of monarchy and organized religion alike, in their enthusiasm they became arrogant.Benedict: You thought it possible for one mind, in one lifetime, to acquire such scope of knowledge and depth of understanding as to be fit to sit in judgment upon the wisdom of the race --upon traditions and institutions that have taken form out of the experience of the centuries.
In this volume, the reborn (or newborn?) spirit of the human mind - personified by the philosophes of France, and especially by Voltaire, take these new-found powers and turn them against the institutions of ignorance and moribund thought, especially the church.Symptomatic of this war - thankfully, of ideas not of arms -i s the case of Jean Calas, a Protestant who was falsely accused of his son's murder, supposedly because the victim had been contemplating becoming a Catholic.
Volume nine of the eleven volume 'Story of Civilisation' by Will and Ariel Durant. Here, 18th century in focus...
enlightenment,history,nonfiction,The Story of Civilization
As with all of the books of Durant, this one is very thorough of Western and Central Europe.
This one is wrapped up in the bio of Voltaire, who lived in France, then England, Germany and Switzerland and finally back to France.
The arts, the sciences, the wars, the many political changes are all dealt with here.
What is not dealt with is the other parts of the world, except for a few sentences here and there.
Russia, North America, China, India all get one or a few sentences.
