https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8635145-embrace
Don't mean to hurt anyone's feelings but...this book was a waste of my time.
I was doing this: the whole time.Violet Eden, the main character, was a whiney, selfish, lust driven, and not to mention  stupid girl.
ohh hot new exile f*** yes." Hey now, I feel bad for Lincoln because he knew this day was gonna come and he  had  to lie to you for your safety, And now she goes all bat shit crazy and treats her friend like crap.
Did i mention she was VERY selfish?Like:  " You...you could have healed Lincoln.
This book is just as perfect as I remember. Me whenever Lincoln's name is mentioned:Me @ VioletMe @ PhoenixPre review"Reading for the second time"Hahaha yeah nah. I picked this series up in 2011. I was 14 years old. I am now almost 20 years old. Basically, I spent a solid 4 or so years of my life of just reading these books. Yes you've read that right. I could read all 5 books in this series within 1-2 weeks and I repeatedly read the entire series over and over and over again for about 4 years.
Basically, I spent a solid 4 or so years of my life of just reading these books.
I could read all 5 books in this series within 1-2 weeks and I repeatedly read the entire series over and over and over again for about 4 years.
The best I've ever done is reading all 5 books in 3 days.
I'd say I've read these books probably 100 times in my life and I still love them.
I haven't read them in over a year now and I have a lot on my schedule for the next 2-3 weeks so here I am reading these books again.
I have never been more infuriated with a book.Vlog coming soon, dedicated to Kelly-Jane since she wanted me to rant. :D Insta-love, insta-lust, insta-sex, terrible, selfish, creepy characters, dull plot that made no sense. I'm not going to bother wring a review for this.
After reading Embrace by Jessica Shirvington, there are two things that I've more or less decided to stay the hell away from:First, ANGEL novels - with the exception of Angelfall series by Susan Ee and Daughter of Smoke and Bone series Laini Taylor.
You know there were two guys mentioned that the MC is caught in the middle of and yet, you've went ahead and spent a hefty sum of money bringing these books from Australia!
Love triangles should die a thousand deaths...preferrably in the pits of hell.
I normally root for the brooding bad boy in a love triangle but not in this case.
I know if I had read this book six years ago it would have been my favourite, much like how I loved Halo but would despise it now.
Keep in mind, that I hadn't exactly read a lot of this book so the quotes I am providing are not spoilers in anyway - they are simply ones I had to get down so I could use in this review.
However, how the author wrote this moment it seemed that she was making it seem like Steph actually believed that her best friend was being trained for an underground fight club.
As for Lincoln, I loved his character at the start, but his appearance in the book becomes scarce after the first quarter so we don't get to know him very much.
While I love forbidden romance, I like to know why it is so.
Fresh and enticing, Embrace is a delightful angel novel that, even though I didn't absolutely love it, I'd still recommend to fans of paranormal books who enjoy a fast paced, intriguing story, with an abundance of romance, betrayal and secrets.--For more of my reviews, visit my blog at 
Finally, there’s a hot new dude (with sparkly purple and silver hair – more on that in a bit) that shows up, following Violet’s every move.Violet learns that these events are all related, and that she is, in fact, an angel-human hybrid and destined to become a Grigori – a protector of mankind against fallen exiled angels that want to enslave humanity and live out their twisted hedonistic dreams on Earth.
Kicks Halo's arse...loved it!I've been rather disappointed in most of the Angel books that have come my way recently - too slow, too insipid (seriously, I couldn't even read Halo without snorts of derision and finally gave up for the sake of my colleagues sanity) and too whiny.
EMBRACE was none of these - it's smart, intriguing, fast paced and thoroughly enjoyable.
Because of this, you don't have to be a fan of the supernatural genre to get caught up in Embrace.
I can't wait to read Enticed when it comes out in 2011.
And I really wanted to love this one since she is a debut Australian author, but I didn’t.So here is my special goodreads spoiler review :- THE GOOD* The beautiful prose.
If I couldn’t have the control I wanted, then maybe I’d be better off with none at all.”* Interesting angel concept especially the hierarchy, even if it did get a little bit confusing at times.*Beautiful cover - we all know pretty covers are worth at least half a star because when it gets boring you can stopping reading and just look at it.THE BAD* They characters all seemed too perfect and I found it hard to relate to them.
WOW. I was absolutely blown away at how much I enjoyed this debut novel! I was getting tired of reading Angel stories, but this one was so blissfully different. I highly recommend it!First of all I have to say - I can't believe this is Jessica Shirvington's first story! It was simply amazing and so well-written. The story was perfectly mapped out and planned, it unfolded at a great pace and almost everything was explained in a timely fashion. Instead of a huge slew of questions with no answer
I highly recommend it!First of all I have to say - I can't believe this is Jessica Shirvington's first story!
I didn't like Phoenix on his first meetings with Violet, but then he pretty much turned into Mr. Perfection for me.
There are no 'boring bits' or boring dialogue where you want to slap the best friend up the side of the face (something I've found rather common in YA these days) Jessica doesn't hesitate in weaving a great tale, doesn't get sidetracked in trying too hard to make Violet look like she has a 'normal' life.
:)**I honestly had to stop re-reading Embrace just to start this review!
Make sure that you have lots of time when you start this because you won't be able to put it down!Embrace is about angels, but it's in no way just another angel book!
Totally enticing and 100% entertaining, Embrace is a book you don't want to miss!
It doesn't end on a cliffhanger but I still wish I had the next book with me right now.
:)BUY or BORROW?: You definitely want to own this book so you can re-read it like I already have!
It broke my heart I was sobbing right in the beginning of the book which is a good thing, you want it to get better, you want to know what she is going to do next, and most of all will she forgive him and herself along the way with some of the choices she makes?!Add in Phoenix god just writing this part about him has me all tingly!
I feel sometimes he truly does love Violet but he does so much manipulation then in the end the BIG revelation pushes him away from her kind of like Lincoln.Now Lincoln again another amazing character (this book is full of them).
no, let me rephrase thatTWO guys LOVE her!I just do not understand why anyone can possibly fall in love with her!Also...This book had a lot of "I definitely saw that coming" in it(view spoiler)[Violet & Licoln can't be together?
Yep, I saw that coming once Violet introduced her crush on him.
I definitely saw that coming.
Also, it's great to bring in some dark secret (in this book the heroine gets sexually assaulted by a teacher), but don't spend much time on it since, you know, these books really don't care much for character development and the aftermath of an assault.Step Two; Introduce Drippy Love Interest One--this is usually the endgame (though it can occasionally differ).
But he's not a love interest, he's the main character's egotistical best friend and it's said in jest.
However here was a list of things that I totally detested with just 75 pages left:1) Violet only just met Phoenix for like at most one month and yet she still does "IT" with him!!!
But hey, when I continued to read I found out it was just Phoenix's emotion control things THAT I TOTALLY DETEST AND IS MAINLY WHY I HATE HIM.
Look I could list a whole lot more but I cannot get bothered because each time, when I finish reading the last 75 pages, all my dislikes of this book goes away because I find out it was ALL PHOENIX'S FREAKIN' FAULT!
Her best friend acts ditzy at best (although she's apparently smart when no one else is around...?), and her main function in the story seems to be showing just how absolutely gorgeous Violet is and cooing over the guys in her life.
A lot of these q&a scenes between Violet and some other characters occur around food, which makes me wonder if the author was hungry while writing them.And then there are the guys, Lincoln and Phoenix.
And hey, at least he's less annoying than Violet.Now, I know this is the first of a series, and that there needs to be a lot of setup and worldbuilding, but another main problem I had with this book is that nothing really happens.
Even though the book started at a point where Violet already had feelings for Lincoln (I'll talk about him later) but it wasn't anything like insta-love which was good.
There was a hint of a love triangle but it wasn't overdone and it didn't completely take over the book.Out of the two love interests that Violet had, Lincoln was my favorite.
There were times where I did like him but there were others where I had a feeling that he wasn't who he said he was and was hiding things.
The settings and background information, like the Grigori and angels, were very interesting to read and learn about it made this book even more enjoyable.
The plot was unique (gives a whole new meaning to evil vs good angels), the characters were kick-ass, and I thoroughly enjoyed this book and was deeply engrossed in it noticing how I spent only 4-5 hours finishing it! :D I RECOMMEND!
Violet doesn't know it at first, but she's going to need both of these guys on her side to help get her through what's coming next and the decision she has to make of whether to embrace her Grigori side or not.
I fully enjoyed reading this book and discovering this world that Violet has been destined to be a part of.
There is quite a lot going on in this book, but ultimately it's about Violet learning about this world and figuring out how she feels about being a part of it or not and what's most important to her in her life.
Having been generally disappointed with the spate of angels books out there (Fallen being an example - though well written, it was described by one reviewer as moving at glacial speed and I think that was accurate), this book was recommended to me by someone whose judgement I trust....I was not disappointed.In Embrace, Shirvington has laid the foundation for a terrific series that commences with the 17th birthday of the heroine, Violet Eden and an unusual gift her mother has left for her.
With YA angel fic, it's so easy to spot the gems among the piles and piles of crap. This book, however, blended right into the pile. It wasn't even the memorable kind of bad. The whole time I was reading I just kept sighing like, "Really? This shit again?" because once again, there's not a lot of originality there, and the vapid insta-love made it all the more insufferable. DNF. Chose not to waste any more of my time.
The angel lore in this book is extremely well thought out. It will be interesting to see who Violet's angel parent is. Love the cover too!
Allerdings ist sie auch für eine Grigori etwas Besonderes und so werden auch Wesen, die den Grigori und Menschen schaden wollen, schnell auf sie aufmerksam.Auch wenn es vielleicht nichts Neues ist, hat mir die Handlung doch gefallen und dank des Schreibstils fliegt man auch nur so durch das Buch.Dann hatte ich aber leider doch so meine Probleme beim Lesen.
Die Liebesgeschichte hat dann für meinen Geschmack aber viel zu viel Raum eingenommen und das Ganze wurde teilweise auch sehr besitzergreifend und wirklich bedenklich… Ich hatte mir leider etwas mehr von diesem Buch erhofft.
And while this book isn't as kick-ass as Hush, Hush, it's still special in it's own way.I really liked the different angel spin Shirvington put on this story.
And, although this book had a love triangle, it was only a semi one, so I think it really helped the story.In the love triangle there are three people: Violet, Lincoln, and Phoenix.
Towards the end of the book, I liked Phoenix better.
Ok she's meant to be madly in love with Lincoin for the first bit of the book, and than she find out he's been keeping a secret that he had no choice but to keep, because she and him are both half-angels destined to be eterneral partners in hunting and killing angels.
No she finds one of the original angels, the baddess of the bad, Phoenix son of the evilest angel in existence.
I didn't like anything in this book besides Lincoin but he was represented as the bad guy!
Alright, let's just get right into it. I really, really did not like this book. Honestly, the love triangle was agonizing to go through. Violet Eden, oh my gosh, I wanted to smack her in the head SO many times because she can be stupid. I really liked Lincoln and his super cute nickname. Phoenix was a freaking asshole and I hated him in every possible way, enough said. I liked griffin, ALOT. That's pretty much it.
I officially hate Violet Eden; the whiny, SELFISH, stupid, lackluster, weak, love-struck brat of a main character of this book.
If the main character was someone other than Viola, people would think she is a selfish brat and never mention her in the book anymore.
I can see that most authors are really talented, are capable of making wonderful characters like Tris from Divergent (I love her.
The last thing I hate in this book (and in general) are freaking love triangles!
Here are some things I liked and disliked about this book to justify why I gave it 3.5 stars on Goodreads.Pros:-Angels (gotta love them)--but also just focusing on angels and not religion-Refreshing to keep it not so controversial.-The boys...oh yes.
Phoenix is mysterious, dark and brooding...the strong silent type and Lincoln is the good guy that Violet wants a piece of so badly.-The love triangle--and my what a triangle there is.
Okay, so I know that this book may not be appropriate for kids under 16 or 17...I’m 24 and I was blushing during some of the scenes.
Jessica Shirvington’s debut book is loaded with romance, adventure, and angels with an interesting story that will keep readers on the edge.
She sets out on a journey to learn more about herself and her mother, specifically her mysterious past.
After learning more about her inexplicable life, she has to decide whether to continue and accept her fate or turnaround and go back.
This beautiful character that Shirvington created has a natural connection with its readers.The world that Shrivington formed is brilliant, beautiful, and sophisticated.
There are some hot steamy scenes within the pages but it is tastefully done.Embrace takes Angel-themed paranormal romance to whole new levels.
We were hooked from the start.Embrace follows Violet along her journey of finding out about herself and her mother's mysterious past.
Violet's journey comes to a harsh fork in the road when she discovers she only has two choices, embrace her destiny or turn her back on it.
Both think they know the path that Violet should take, but when one becomes seriously injured, she is forced to make her choice.When we read this book, we seriously considered having the last two books in the trilogy shipped to us from Australia, where the series was originally released.
This was one of our favorite reads we've discovered over the last three years and Violet has made our list of top female characters.
“You are you and you are me. You are the Keshet.”Guys, JUST COME ON AND READ THIS SERIES, PLEASE!!! I don't know if any of you would read this review, since it's about a book you probably never heard of.The Violet Eden Chapters by Jessica Shirvington is one of the best series If have ever had the pleasure to read and I'm highly recommending these books.Embrace, the first installment, already starts very promising: romance, danger, different types of angels, plot twists and hurt. Jessica Shirving
I don't know if any of you would read this review, since it's about a book you probably never heard of.The Violet Eden Chapters by Jessica Shirvington is one of the best series If have ever had the pleasure to read and I'm highly recommending these books.Embrace, the first installment, already starts very promising: romance, danger, different types of angels, plot twists and hurt.
I couldn't stop reading, the pages went flying.As for the characters, Violet Eden, the main character, has her flews.
She still acted very human and realistic, compared to other YA characters.Then there are Lincoln and Phoenix.
OMG, I loved, loved, loved this book! The romance between Violet and Lincoln and all their angst was brilliant! I want to read more right now! Can't wait for the next book!I didn't love the reread as much as I loved it the first time, but it was still fun!
HOLLA FOR VILLANOUS LOVE INTERESTThis is actually a really good angel book and I've read tones! Totally suggest this if you want to read a angel book.
In Embrace we are introduced to Violet Eden who has been trying to live a normal life after an incident that happened when she was younger.
But Lincoln has been keeping a secret from Violet - a secret that could change everything.
Lincoln is a Grigori (Someone who is part Angel) and it turns out Violet is his partner and she has the choice of becoming a Grigori too.
I like how the romance in this wasn't just instant.
She had actually known Lincoln for a couple of years and although she only just meets Phoenix they spend quite a bit of time together.
US/Canada, ends March 10th!Wildly compelling, sexy and taut, Embrace by Jessica Shirvington offers a hot new take on angels!
It's a delicious treat for everyone who enjoys fast-paced and totally engaging stories, filled with gorgeous characters, shivery sexual tension, heart-stopping plot twists, and richly developed mythology.
Jessica Shirvington managed to do this one thing that many before her have tried and failed - she made angels sexy!
I won't even try to deny it - I LOVE PHOENIX!!!
Violet is a whole different story - some will like her, some will not.
She focused on Grigori and angels, and it turned out fabulous.
:DMy inner subconscious: Whitney...
Don't you think you've read enough books with bitchy/weak heroines?Me: *sarcasic* Oh, no.
I love them to death.
Especially ones who have sex with one guy, while in love with another.My inner subconscious: ...This book, I will admit, wasn't the best book I've ever read.
And it wasn't the worst book either.
But damn, it was almost painful to get through without cringing or wanting to throw the book in acid.
And to be honest, I did really want to like this book.
This book was way too fast-paced and basically scattered everywhere.
This was a different take on the whole angel theme and it was a believable story. I liked the characters for the most part, although I wish Violet would have made different choices in some ways. The thing that bothered me the most in this book was all the swearing and sexual content. I'm tired of seeing so much of this stuff in YA books (I choose YA because they are supposed to be cleaner) and it has become a major turn-off for me. I've chosen not to follow this series.
(Also its no big surprise that there is a love triangle, which is becoming a boring trope rampant in so many YA novels.)My next issue is with the two main love interest, especially the main love interest who she is obviously going to end up with.
The rest of the plot and angel backstory is equally confusing as well, or at least it was for me.I give the author props for doing something different, but that's pretty much the beginning and end of the positives I can give for this book.P.S. Did nobody else think the age difference between the main character and her love interests was kind of weird?
I love the road Violet chooses to go down even if it is for the wrong reason at first. It's got the suspense and the romance and I couldn't wait to read more. Such an agonizingly good read!
Honestly if someone wants tips on how to write the best second male lead known to mankind, ADRIAN IVASHKOV IS PERFECT.Okay so let's talk about the mountain hiking scene, like Lincoln is fucking dying over there, while Violet and Phoenix are having sex, no I'm not even kidding, you were sent to embrace not to fucking get into each others pants, get your fucking priorities straight.I don't see how people can "love" this book like I'm sorry the flaws were one too fucking many, I had to stop myself from DNF-ing this from the moment Phoenix entered the ball park.Plus the whole Grigori partners cant be in love has to have a reason, you can't just say they aren't compatible and be done with it give me a solid reason like Parabatai can't be together.
DNF at page 63, but I read the last chapter and basically died laughing."If you really wanna know, I've got a bitch of an itch on my right ass cheek, and your complaining isn't making me feel any better."~~ Clair, my friend, 2k17.SPECIAL SEGMENT: EMBLARGH (that was me throwing up), CREATING THE LOVE TRIANGLE OF THE DEVILReview feat.
RTC!
Violet is a strong character that is definitely independent and can handle herself in a fight, which I loved.
What I don’t understand is how her best friend believed her so readily, but I guess if they’ve been friends since they were younger I can understand how much they trust each other.I love the history of all the Angels in this book.
There’s so much angel history that is touched upon the book that I don’t want to spoil it for anyone so what I can say is that it’s a little different than other angel books.The love triangle between Violet, Lincoln and Phoenix was intense!
See, there's this one character called Phoenix, who we're supposed to love because he's hot and a bad bot and misunderstood because he's an angel (I'm seeing a pattern here...) who we find out can manipulate people's feeling, and that's exactly what Phoenix does to Violet.
Her father is one of those 'busy parents' who is hardly ever present in the story, and Violet's best friend is only there to talk about boys.Now, the writing was fairly fast-paced and quick to read, so you can probably knock this book off in just a few days, or something, depending on how fast you read.
This story will take you on a rollercoater of emotions.Violet finds her world turned upside down on her 17th birthday.
She must decide if she will embrace what she is and fight in the war against the exiled angels, or turn her back on them and be hunted by them just for being felt as a threat.
The time for her decision becomes more forced when Lincoln is seriously hurt, and she must make it through the journey before she can truely be embraced.Throwing everything into a tailspin is an exiled angel that comes out of nowhere but provides Violet the courage to keep going.
Feeling betrayed by Lincoln, she finds a friend in Phoenix.
