https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12958815-v-for-vendetta-vol-i-of-x
, and the rest of them too at least at the first Book..It starts with huge act of rebellion, resonate, the Gunpowder plot."For more on this old real life rebellion, you can check this new BBC miniseries"Then Alan Moore takes us smoothly into learning more about this Dystopia England, and how it turns into this mess -and what the hell happened to the world itself- through the back story if young Evey .BUT Kennedy?
and ordering the N-Bombs war?, may be we'll learn more about that later?And also learn bit about how England ruled now, The Eye, Voice, Fate...etc.And before the first volume ends..
I was sure I'd not like it at all.All because I didn't care for the film adaptation with Hugo Weaving and Natalie Portman, didn't care for the story told in it, which I found boring and inferior even for a run-of-the-mill utopia.
Her age makes certain things in the film make much more sense as well.Overall, the first issue of the whole 10-volume series does an excellent setting-up job as well as introduces the main characters in a manner that builds the tension and the mystery over the outcome much better than in the adaptation.
The multiplying villanies of natureDo swarm upon him—from the western islesOf kerns and gallowglasses is supplied;And fortune, on his damned quarrel smiling,Show'd like a rebel's whore: but all's too weak:For brave Macbeth—well he deserves that name—Disdaining fortune, with his brandish'd steel,Which smoked with bloody execution,Like valour's minion carved out his passageTill he faced the slave;Which ne'er shook hands, nor bade farewell to him-----------------------------------------------------Oh my god I loved that one.........good old tricky macbeth hehehethat story is poetic
THIS WAS AMAZING!V for Vendetta is my favorite movie ever, and I was worried to see what the comic book held because I had really high expectations.Luckily this lived up to those expectations! I adored every little detail of it, especially since it had a lot more information about characters than the movie did.I'm definitely continuing on with these books
This stuff if Gooood!!!!Full review after completing the series.
Definitely continuing this series. Off to an amazingly mysterious start!
No doubt since it is a work written way back in 1988, the graphical gloss make seem missing but the content more than makes up for it.
Into this world of tyranny enters our liberator simply known as ‘V’, the reason for his drive to fight against the prevailing political dispensation is further revealed in this first volume itself.
I wouldn’t want to kill the suspense for those who haven’t yet read the book.To sum up, it is an exciting, thought-provoking and dark story.
In the post 9/11 world some of the issues pertaining to intrusive surveillance by the government, along with increased intolerance are issues that this work can contribute to.
¡Qué comienzo! Es mi primera experiencia con un cómic y ... ¡Wow!
Racism and homophobia – black and gay people being sent to concentration camps.In the first instalment of V for Vendetta we are introduced to a world in the future, after a nuclear war that has left the world wrecked; mostly through floods and crop failures.
They hint at so much and there could be a lot they could have shown, and I would have loved to see it – the marks on the victims chest, for one – and I feel like there could have been more in the art – but then again, it’s the 80s.This comic is… a little scary.
The graphic novel V for Vendetta by Alan Moore is about a masked 'terrorist' named V who tries to free Britain from a totalitarian government. Along the way, He picks up a young woman named Evey and brings her along for the ride. This graphic novel switches from Evey and V's point of view, to the governments, which made me wonder who was right and who is wrong. V for Vendetta is a dark book, and would not be recommended to children. For those who are older and enjoy the dark, superhero genre, this is the book for you!
This is by far the best comic book series I have ever read. I thoroughly enjoyed every minute of it. My only criticism would be of the poor quality paper and color printing that went into the comics. If you happen to think that comic book writing is too plain or simple, pick up the first in this series and I bet you'll be pleasantly surprised.
Exciting beginning. The entrance of V was all sudden and mesmerizing. The mess he made, the way he talked and moved, the wit he showed- all made him a true anarchist. Can't wait to finish the series asap. Nothing is compared to see the V in his Vengeance mode!
Tüm ciltler için ortak yorum gelecek.  “I don't have a name. You can call me ‘V’. ”
I have individual marks for each installment, explained in part in the volume chronology (see the spoiler.)] V for Vendetta is Alan Moore's take on dystopia; here, the hero takes on the totalitarian regime set in the UK.
As such, this graphical novel is part of a topical list that includes Zamyatin's We, Huxley's Brave New World, and Orwell's 1984.The book focuses on V, who fights against the totalitarian government.
I found the story rather cliched and linear, despite attempts to spice it up through alternative ploys.
(This also helps in understanding the disorientation of the crowds.)Overall, I can recommend neither the movie or the graphical novel.
Uhhh and it begins .. I fell in love with the story when I saw the movie. This is a ten part story by Great Alan Moore and tells the story of an alternate reality where UK is ruled by a right wing party. The story is set in London in 1997 and begins on the Night of 5th of November. 'Remember Remember the 5th of November ...'. The only difference from the beginning is that Evey is only 16 years old in comics not older like Natalie Portman. I will gobble up remaining parts soon.
ریویوی کل مجموعه، در اینجا:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
I can feel the addiction rising in my bones. This is serious.
What is this! It's not the movie at all. But i liked it. I love V
قرأت العدد الأول وذُهلت حقيقةً من الأبعاد السياسية في الكوميكس , إذ تتخلل الوقائع التاريخية كتابات الآن مور التي ذكرت في المقدمة والحقيقة أنها شيء جوهري للغاية لفهم الخلفية التاريخية والسياسية لإنجلترا في الثمانينيات. كما أذهلتني الترجمة المسرحية لمكبث. على الرغم من قرائتي للمسرحية ومشاهدتي للفيلم الذي فشل مترجموه بكل المقاييس في ترجمة المقطع من المسرحية ألا إن ترجمة جبرا ابراهيم جبرا رائعة جديًا! ووفق في ترجمتها من لغتها الأم أتطلعُ قُدمًأ لسبر أغوار شخصية "في" الأناركية.
5/5 estrellas.Comienzo perfecto.Para quien haya visto la película: el comic cuenta muchísimos más detalles y merece la pena.Además, ver la película antes, como es mi caso, hace que entienda mucho más algunos detalles que pueden ser confusos.Totalmente recomendado.No apto para niños.No recomendado para adolescentes, mejor cuando ya tengan asentada algo la cabeza.
Me dejó con bastante intriga de por medio, en esta parte de la historia apenas se da una rápida contextualización de V, el personaje principal, y algunas de sus obras, mientras que el mundo está entrando en conflicto. Eso sí, el estilo de dibujo no me ha encantado, pero es pasable e incluso creo que hace buena combinación con el cómic.
A dystopian world where corruption rules. V, an anarchist, sets out to destroy the government. Volume I of X includes four chapters:Chapter One - The VillainChapter Two - The VoiceChapter Three - VictimsChapter Four - Vaudeville
I like it because it is descriptive text and amazing!! I suggest this book!!!
Augustus Waters of "The Fault In Our Stars" by John Green brought me here???That's the most wonderful thing ever.THANKS BRO!!!
Fast start and amazing character development. I also love the art style and graphics of this comic book. I'm excited to read the next ones in the series!
A great story with strong political commentary.
l wanted toread book
V for Vendetta is a book by Allan Moore and David Lloyd.
It is a book about what could happen after a nuclear war.
The government took people of different races and different beliefs and performed tests on them.
This book is a graphic novel.
It isn’t that long, but it is a very challenging book to read because it jumps all over the place.
Sometimes it takes place in the government's point of view and then other times it takes place in V or Evie’s point of view.
I would recommend this to anyone who likes graphic novels or challenging books.
Versi ini berbeza (banyak sikit) dari filemnya, malah saya lebih tertarik dengan skrip filem ini lebih dari huruf-huruf yang tertulis dalam bubble komik ini. Episod pertama merupakan permulaan V mula muncul memporak-porandakan pihak penguasa. Manakala watak utama perempuan baru sahaja nak berjinak-jinak arena niaga menjual tubuh dan bukanlah bekerja di stesen tv.Boleh tahan sebab ia klasik.
أعتقد إن هذه هى المرة الأولى التى أقوم بقراءة كوميس باللغة الانجيلزية خارج نطاق Batman, Superman ,Archie & Mickey وبالتالى فالتجربة والقدرة على التمتع وهضم فكرة والمعنى ليست مكتملة بعد بالأضافة إلى أنبهارى بالفيلم وحرفيته وتأثيرات البصرية والصوتية مما قد يكون له أثر فى تقييمى للجزء الأول من عشر أجزاء من الكومكيس
