https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/896069.The_Philosophy_and_Opinions_of_Marcus_Garvey_Or_Africa_for_the_Africans
There are ideas in this book which go beyond "Africa for the Africans." It is not only a compilation of extracts from Garvey's speeches and weekly essays published in the Negro World Newspaper, it is also a combination of two volumes edited separately by Garvey's second wife Amy Jacques Garvey.
The book is nicely summed up with Garvey's seminal essay African Fundamentalism, which in and of itself reveals the mind of a man who so impressed Bob Marley that he immortalized a quote from Garvey in the lyric:Emancipate yourselves from mental slavery, none but ourselves can free our mind.
Sensational book! a must read for anybody that can (read)!
I loved this book. This man was brilliant and had a vision. Black folks, especially in times like these, need more leaders who have the proud, do-for-self mentality that Garvey had.
The Philosophy and Opinions, first published in two volumes in 1923 and 1925, quickly became a celebrated apologia for the leader of the largest Pan-African mass movement of all time
Marcus Garvey's philosophies and opinions should be on the list of every African-American male's and female's list of read books or list of books to read. The reader will be inspired by the meaningful words elegantly and articulately spoken (written) by Garvey.
Meh. He wanted to unite the black race and his ideas on race in general and race mixing I agree with but along with his call for racial unity and for the black man to stand strong he whines that whitey has kept the black race down blah blah blah. He doesn’t understand or care the difference in iq among the races he doesn’t even touch on the Jewish issue in slavery or finances or anything. He just blames whites and lazy blacks. Only paid 50 cents for it so it’s a giveaway
The Philosophy and Opinions of Marcus Garvey, Or, Africa for the Africans (The New Marcus Garvey Library, No. 9) by Marcus Garvey (1986)
He is the forefather of the " black thought " therefore all black people should read all of his works!
I want to read
Good read, and a must read for serious Conscious folk's
Perhaps more Opinion then Philosophy, provides excellent insight into the 2nd Black Nationalism movement, their arguments, strategies, and goals.
can't even begin to tell you how powerful this reading is. very informative and increased my race pride exponentially. brilliant man, wonderful wife for assembling
I was young at the time, but some of the quotes still remain with me to this day. Great Read for a young black man searching for answers.
Interesting book that makes you think. Slightly repetitive due to the way the book is constructed
