https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12664.Iberia
The book is still in print, and though it must be dated to some extent, I have a GR friend who moved to Spain in the last year, and has said he has found it useful to have as a suggestion for travels and things to see.- - - - - - - - - -I'm pretty certain I read most of this 40-50 years ago.
Before the industrial revolution Spain was a leader in manufacturing quality goods, a leader in world trade and agriculture; yet within a few generations leadership in all this had passed to other countries in Europe.
If I ever plan a trip to Spain I certainly want to check out Michener's thoughts on the cities we would visit, for two prime reasons.First, much of his narrative focuses on the history of the cities he writes about.
Michener first visited Spain sometime in the late 20’s, maybe 1930, and I think it likely that pieces of the narrative date back to any of the many trips he took to Spain over the next 35 years.
“I proposed that we do this book together.”I remember the commission we agreed upon: ‘Vavra will go over Spain guided only by his own eye, completely indifferent as to what Michener may write or think or prefer.
In a sense no visitor can ever be adequately prepared to judge a foreign city, let alone an entire nation; the best he can do is to observe with sympathy. Travel writing is like love poetry. All travelers and lovers are convinced that their experiences are unique, and therefore worth writing about; while in reality most travel stories and love poems express nearly the same basic sentiment, over and over, with only minor variations. Both genres are easy to write and hard to read, which is why fa
And it is true that you learn quite a bit about Spain’s history in the course of this book.Michener spent about thirty years traveling in Spain, on and off.
Of course, Michener can’t be faulted for missing this.I am not sure whether this book can be enjoyed by somebody who is not at least planning on visiting Spain.
Probably there is no clear line, but in any case there were several times during the course of this book that Michener’s urge to see and know everything about Spain struck me as the urge to consume the country.The third flaw was Michener’s preoccupation with authenticity.
First literary travel book I ever read. Michener was such a good travel writer. I loved Iberia.
Bridges at Toko-Ri was one of the first books I ever read.
But I can say this book taught me more about Spain than I learned visiting it or from a bunch of years of Spanish.
Here is some of what Michener shows us:The Spanish system of surnames.
And yet, perhaps the best part of the book is the last chapter, on Santiago de Compostela and the history of the pilgrimage to it.
Region by region and city by city.That Michener had such knowledge of Spain, and that this was only one of many places he had such knowledge, is hard to comprehend.
Maybe that's why I skipped the rest of his Barcelona and his long bull-fighting stories.
Then again, he is so wedded to efficiency and fact, like his favourite bull-fighter, that his descriptions seem to depend on brief, childish superlatives, telling us their value on a scale of his own making, rather than showing us what he saw.More in updates...
I've long been a very appreciative fan of Michener's historical epics - this tome is no Chesepeake, Hawaii or The Source, however, all of which offer exhaustive and near encyclopedic treatments of their respective subjects.
I admit to being wonderfully surprised by the humanity with which Michener approaches Spain, as well as by the poetic literary style that he employs to capture the essence of the nation's culture, psychology and persona.
After taking this one in, I honestly and seriously wonder if Michener didn't miss his true calling as a travel writer.
Este libro es una lectura obligada para quien desee conocer España desde el punto de vista de un turista ilustrado... es una excelente introducción a la cultura, geografía y temperamento ibéricos.
χρόνια είχα να κάμω ντογκ-ήαρ. το πάνω της σελίδας για την διακοπή της ανάγνωσης. το κάτω, όπου σκόνταψα σε κάτι πολύτιμο. βιβλίο με μια αγέλη σκυλαφτάκια.
I thought this book all would be was Michener's travel through Spain, but no its more than half about the history, which is really boring to me, especially the way it was written into his travel by selection, so I could not get into the book. But I should have expected the history mixed in with his travel, since in all his fictional books about different locations it is basically a history of the location from the beginning of time on how the land was created to the present time.
James Michener seems to have hated editing.
A picnic Michener had with a random Spaniard, one afternoon in Madrid, a description of a dish and a sudden recipe (one in the entire book), fully played-out fantasy conversation with a long-dead Spaniard, the plot of a matador film retold in the most minuscule detail.
It's all good and it all makes it to the book.While sometimes tedious (I skipped the chapter on the bulls entirely, no one on Earth has time for that), it is still very enjoyable and you grow to like this man as you read his book.
I enjoyed this book very much, even though I'm not normally a fan of this author.
I think that this was a more personal book, with stories of what he saw and learned from his encounters, made me like it more.It reads like a travelogue, and, since I want to go to Spain, I enjoyed hearing about it.
In fact, that's how I "read" this: I listened to the unabridged audio in my car.
But I did get a feel for the country reading it, I think.Someday, I will probably read this again.
This is a fascinating book. Most definitely a product of the times (late 1960's) and not at all impartial (though occasionally pretending to be), Iberia is a deep reflection on Spain from an outsider who loves the country. Sometimes funny, sometimes poignant, sometimes borderline offensive - it's still enjoyable and a great jumping off point for your own research into different aspects of Spain and Spanish life. It's also really really really long, but I thought it was a relatively quick read - Michener is an excellent writer and brings his experiences to life.
fascinating saga... the world of Spain as it was 50 years ago. The history of the second half of the 20th century is beyond comprehension... Michener did an awesome job of presenting it in vivid narrative.
I wanted to like it, but it was tough. alternated between dull and fascinating vignettes. Not the usual michner story. Not sure why I finished it but I did, and now on to something else in the growing bedside pile.
(The body was never found.) Michener fails to dispute and rather supports Dr. Silio's general defense of the Inquisition as "not that bad." Silio's book was published in 1945, probably written during the fascist 1930s in Spain.
Michener goes on to explain (and more or less celebrate) how James appeared in legend on a white horse to reclaim Spain from the Moors, then spiritually guide Spain to expel its Jews and move on across the Atlantic to "evangelize half the globe." This is a deep-seated notion in Spanish pride.
I have a good Spanish friend who explains to me that the adventure in the New World was faith-not-gold-driven.
I'm sure I've missed that old Spain of Franco's time and maybe (also) that's not such a bad thing.
The Catholic church doesn't have the same power that it did.
You might be interested to know what things used to be like if you've already been to Spain in the last 20 years.
You should read it as an intense portrait---warts and all---of a particular country, a country that has played a major role in world and European history.
What you will get from this superb book is a flavor, whether your taste runs to social analysis, history, architecture, bullfighting, people, nature, or just simple travel.
I was wondering what kept him from writing a novel on Spain.
It seems he had a lot of the history, geography, and culture to write a novel.
Or maybe the history itself was enough and adding fictional characters would not have added much to the telling.
One wonders how he would react to the changes to Spain and the world in the 50 years since this was written.
The book was written before Franco's death, and had some speculation about the changes that might occur.
At this time, this book would be of interest to those who have an interest in Spain and its history.
James Michener has become a favorite of mine.
His books are LONG, but so complete and filled with fascinating details.
This was not a novel, but personal recollections of his travels in and complete love of Spain.
It is interspersed with historical, cultural, religious, musical details.
Even though the man totally LOVED Spain and Spaniards, he will look critically at many things within the culture and country.
I began the book because I was traveling to Spain.
It made the visit richer and more meaningful.
He wrote while Spain was still under Dictator Franco and wondered what the future would hold politically.
Part travel book, part history book part snapshot of cultural impressions of Spain in the mid 60's.Still a good context book if you are thinking about going to Spain and want to know about Spanish history up to Franco.
It was interesting to get the perspective of an American writer from that time but I suspect much has changed in Spain since then making the book dated.The travel book side where Michener goes into intimate detail about a painting, sculpture or building was nothing like today's modern travel writers and was somewhat random and didn't make for great reading.
I'm planning a trip to Spain and Portugal, and since I remember enjoying Michener before, I thought this could be good.
It was long since he got into details that a good editor should have reduced.
I read at 1.5 speed and it made it bearable and helped me reduce 40 hours to about 30.
I did enjoy the parts about people, Toledo, museums in Madrid, picnics in the country, cork trees, food and descriptions of the churches.
Michener was a huge fan of bull fights, and that I could have skipped entirely.
It is good to know a different perspective from what the official documents usually say.
It is a civilian point of view in 1968.
My background naturally hates his personal opinions about the architecture in Southern Spain.
Everyone has the right to say his opinion.
It is a simple book about traveling around Spain.
I admire very much his descriptive abilities as it summoned me many times to imagine and be present in such places.
His description of buildings, people even the light is spectacular.
So this is a point for him.
Eventually, it is a good book anyone can enjoy it.
I listened to most of this book before i went to Spain. It was better sped up to 1.25 speed as the reader was slow but good. I do think Mitchner’s books are better read so you can see the chapters you might want to skip. I learned a lot about Spain which i didn’t get from a travel manual. The bullfighting info was especially informative.
A fascinating memoir about traveling through Spain with a great amount of historical information, origins of traditions, and the current status (when published) of the nation and the people. Another great book by Michener. I wish I had discovered him many years ago, but I am glad that I can now enjoy his works. They are entertaining and enlightening.
LOVED this travelogue. Michener uses his great flowing writing style to discuss each Spanish city. I loved the detail...he tells each city's culture, history, lifestyles, monuments, streets, dwellings.I did not finish this wonderful book ONLY because it was just TOO much to take in without being in Spain. We will make a trip to Spain with this book and live every page.
Generally detailed if out of date, it still is written well and provides lots of food for thought. It makes one want to visit Spain if not already done so, or revisit if one has already had the pleasure.
It's fifty years old, so much has changed, not least that Franco finally died and Spain is more democratic than when Michener was there. He has a very male perspective, though his wife pops up at the end of the book. It's very long but quite readable if you take it all with a grain of salt.
An amazingly rich account of Spain, it’s just WAY TOO LONG. The meandering chapters without clear breaks when suddenly switching topics made the narrative tough to follow. But I’m not sure that there’s another book out there to top this portrait of the country.
I loved this intimate read. It felt as though James Michener were writing for himself just as much as for future readers. An introduction to Spain that is lively and real while also sharing the history and culture. Can't wait for my trip in May!
One really feels the passion, love and understanding Michener has for Spain......it's history, culture, food, music, literature, the bullfighting and the people.
