https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/386485.Liberalism
The empasis Mises places on the importance of divison of labor to the classical liberal program is interesting, but the majority of the book is less convincing than it could have been.
He stresses that the liberal program has never been truly implemented, and then argues that interventionsim (the middle ground beween the other two philosophies), or indeed any deviation from his concepton of liberalism is fated to utter ruin.
He then basically ignores interventionism, and argues for a fully implemented liberal policy.
In order for Mises program to work, the whole world must be converted to his belief.
This book is a great, concise introduction to the ideology of (true) liberalism.
To address the complaints of the negative reviews, the book was not meant to be a comprehensive discussion of liberalism nor was it meant to be a complete rebuttal to liberalism's critics.
Mises says so himself in the introduction of the book.
It is important to approach the presented material with an open mind because the philosophy is far from mainstream in academic and political circles despite being an integral part of western, economic systems.
I recommend this book to any capitalists, open-minded socialists, or any other person interested in Austrian economics/political thought.
The main challenge, for the classical liberal, fighting against popular opposition, is to show that "private property is not a privilege of the property owner, but a social institution for the good and benefit for all." (p.30) It runs counter to moral intuition to argue that income inequality can be a good thing; but this precisely is the argument that suggests itself to the liberal.Essentially, it all boils down to Adam Smith's succinct observation from the Wealth of Nations: "Little else is requisite to carry a state to the highest degree of opulence from the lowest barbarism, but peace, easy taxes, and a tolerable administration of justice; all the rest being brought about by the natural course of things." The doctrine of laissez-faire that sprang from this observation has carried the world far into prosperity and civilizational advancement.But Mises goes a bit further than the earlier classical liberals.
Mises basic argument is that only liberalism can provide continual material growth, peace and prosperity to mankind.
Like the classical liberals Cobden and Bastiat, Mises defines the role of the state consisting entirely in "guaranteeing the protection of life, health, liberty and private property against violent attacks".Unlike anarcho-capitalists such as Murray Rothbard and Hans Hermann Hoppe, Mises defense of the free market is based on a utilitarian ethics.
Their reasoning runs along the following lines: given that man is essentially selfish, how can we create a public system which protects individuals and provides long term security?
However, von Mises clearly shows that the established frequently prefer interventionism with the intention of preserving their favored position, in light of the fact that true Liberalism forces business people to work for their wealth and position or lose it.Von Mises correctly points out that Liberalism is the only known ideology that permits for peace, all the others making such competing and exclusive claims on at least some groups of people as to engender a never ending cycle of Hatfields and McCoys, vendetta and retribution.
With this small pamphlet - first published in german 1927 and not until 1962 translated into english (initally under the title 'The free and propserous Commenwealth' because Mises feared that 'Liberalism' could evoke false connotations) - Mises endeavoured to bring the ideals and the pivotal elements of liberalism to a broad audience in a time, when the commmon stage of politics espoused strong anti-liberal ideas.
This, more than anything, can convince todays reader of the benefits of Mises liberal ideas.
Memberikan pencerahan tentang perjuangan sebenar 'Liberalism'.
There is no real new material in his book. Mises's criticisms of socialism are right out of his book by the same name, and most of his remarks on liberalism (and the dangers of statism) can be found in other books like Omnipotent Government. Mises's very utilitarian framework for rights (slavery is wrong solely because it is economically inefficient, for instance) are a bit wanting. As a summary of Mises's political thought, this book is decent. If you have time and energy, though, books like Socialism and Human Action are really what you should be reading.
This is an amazing book. Should be mandatory reading. In most of his insights, von Mises is still unchallenged and proven right. Even if many years have passed by, the current crisis and the reactions and follies of our current governments just prove his points ever more strongly.
Outdated, utter nonsense
Bez liberalizmu i demokracji nie byłoby pokojowych metod do zmiany władzy.
Twierdzi także, że liberalizm, jako jedna z nielicznych ideologii nie opiera się na odwoływaniu się do partykularnych interesów(np.
Nie odwołuje się także do interesów kapitalistów i przedsiębiorców, ponieważ w interesie obecnych przedsiębiorców jest protekcjonizm przed konkurencją.
Przez to uważa, że liberalizm jako ideologia ma podstawy naukowe.
Mógłbym zgodzić się z takim stwierdzeniem tylko wtedy, gdyby zdecydowana większość ludzi uważała, że zwiększanie dobrobytu materialnego jest głównym celem ludzkości.
Ale tak nie jest.
Na przykład wielu ludzi uważa za ważniejsze zmniejszanie nierówności, niż zwiększanie dobrobytu.
To confront an imaginary incarnation of an early and true Classical Liberal with how this word is used today would be all of: funny, sad, outrageous, bewildering."How harmful war is to the development of human civilization becomes clearly apparent once one understands the advantages derived from the division of labor.
It advocates civil liberties with a limited government under the rule of law, private property rights, and belief in laissez-faire economic liberalism.
Here is a passage that really does a fine job of capturing the spirit of von Mises:"Those who advocate equality of income distribution overlook the most important point, namely, that the total available for distribution, the annual product of social labor, is not independent of the manner in which it is divided.
For one, whenever Mises reaches for the historical record to make a point he gets his basic facts ludicrously wrong: he claims that everyone lived prosperously during the Industrial Revolution and that the US only had a couple of wars during the 19th Century.
The last century or so hasn't been kind to the idea that unfettered capitalism is all we need to become prosperous, but even if it wasn't the case and we lived in a Libertarian Utopia this would still be a terrible book written by an intellectually dishonest hack.
Von Mises exposes a good list of arguments and reasons between private property of means of labor and public property of them.
It is really great to find such an exposition of arguments and for some reasons his idea of liberalism as private property of the means of productions is not completely individualistic, so it can be allowed to coexist with the private property of the means of production in cooperatives as Kropotkin defended.
A good read for liberalists (to know their foundations), for socialists (to know some arguments opposing the bureaucratic problems of the public property of the means of production) and for anarchists/libertarians (to know some foundations that can serve for the formation of cooperatives).

“Đầu óc thiển cận, không nhìn thấy gì ngoài quốc gia và dân tộc của mình, phải được thay thế bằng quan điểm toàn cầu”Quan điểm xem đất nước mình là trên hết sai chỗ nào?
Làm sao có một Liên Hợp Quốc mà nước nào cũng tôn trọng nước khác được.
Liberalism, for Mises, is a philosophy that embraces the private ownership of the means of production (free market capitalism), freedom from secular and religious despotism (individual liberty), equality under the law (the rule of law), and full and equal participation in the political order (democracy).It's a fine book even though it's a bit too easily dismissive of the historic split between classical limited government liberalism and welfare state capitalist liberalism.

Mises published this book, a defense of classical liberalism, in 1927 when the world was slowly drifting into chaos with a world war looming just twelve years later. The book holds up well and is spirited, clear and concise. It not only defends classical liberalism, but also offers a critique of socialism and of the rising tide of fascism. Definitely worth a read.
Sangat direkomendasikan untuk orang-orang yang ingin mempelajari/mengetahui nilai-nilai dasar dari liberalisme dari segala aspek.Penjelasannya sangat mudah dan konsisten. Mudah untuk dinalar dan bahasa yang digunakan "merakyat". Terima kasih Pak Mises untuk bukunya yang sangat mencerdaskan kami yang ingin mempelajari dasar-dasar nilai liberal.Good Job!
Consistent in its internal logic and a essential read to understand modern liberalism. But the writer frames liberalism in such manner that in the real world no country is truly liberal and "real" capitalism newer existed. This makes this book a little utopian and trying to dodge the actual problems that are associated with capitalism. So this is like a liberal version of "not real socialism"
An excellent treatise on the principles of liberalism for those who feel themselves succumbing to the delusion of enlightened despotism. Written in 1927 by an Austrian professor who eventually fled from Europe in 1940 and later taught at NYU.
Struggled to keep up with the book. Perhaps the biggest issue with the book is the malay translation version that I’m having problem with.Good introduction to liberalism on a very high level.
Von Mises is without a doubt the most outstanding writer in economics I've had the pleasure of reading.
In which Mises not defends liberalism, but says anarchism won't work because it "misunderstands the real nature of man.” How did he and Murray Rothbard maintain a cordial relationship again?
Apesar de algumas pequenas contradições, Mises resume toda a teoria liberal Austríaca de forma brilhante, nesse livro.
An easy to read and well-written book which suffers from favouring rhetoric over fact. Mises demarcates classical from modern liberalism but in the process ends up constructing something of a myth. He fails to account for liberalism as a political movement. The style and energy of the book somewhat save it.
In the latter category I would put his thoughts on fascism and Russia.I don't think the sporadic signs of age are a problem for Liberalism, and in any case I agree with Mises that it is inevitable:And just as economics, sociology, and philosophy have not stood still since the days of David Hume, Adam Smith, David Ricardo, Jeremy Bentham, and Wilhelm Humboldt, so the doctrine of liberalism is different today from what it was in their day, even though its fundamental principles have remained unchanged.Likewise, the doctrine of liberalism is different in 2012 than it was in 1927, but the central core remains the same, and Mises expresses that core well.I would recommend this book to anyone who wants to spend an afternoon or two in the company of a great mind and to anyone who wants to familiarize themself with a good set of arguments for liberal policies.I would also encourage, nay, exhort anyone who doesn't consider themself a liberal to read the introduction, as it dispels some of the myths about liberals that live on to this day.It's available online at http://oll.libertyfund.org/index.php?...
Mises approaches libertarianism (which he calls liberalism) from a utilitarian perspective, which is a refreshing alternative to the more common rhetoric of natural rights.
It's hard to believe capitalism has had the benefits Mises claims when he portrays it as porcelain brittle.One of the more interesting discussions in the book was that of political leaders.
Because government is necessary, Mises claims, the political professions are just as subject to the division of labor as other roles, though there are of course dangers and temptations that go along with these jobs.
Better approaches to libertarianism have certainly come since Mises's Liberalism.
Hayek, for example, inherited much from Mises, but offers significantly greater sophistication.
Like the world will never be in a stationary state, it will not go into full liberal state as well.
This book intellectually illustrate the reasoning of why human should do according to liberal principle just because human is not perfect.
I believe human is human because of his reasoning and ability to introspect, but from another aspect, human share 100, maybe 1000 attributes with our animal friends on the earth.
If the author failed to recognize this fact, his reasoning is destined to be futile in the face of the masses who think like animals, especially when gathered as a group.
For all the effectiveness of Mises' assault on the fallacies and follies of socialism, interventionism, and other societal constructs, his advocacy of capitalism within a liberal utopia also falls short of achievable reality.Mises assumes that profit-making enterprises will be able to precisely calculate and subsequently calibrate the profit-production of each worker and holds this as capitalist enterprise's advantage over bureaucratic institutions.
If that were possible, then we would live in a brave new world.
One in which profit precluded war in the interdependent economy of today's world.The fact that so many of Mises' ideals have never been the case and likely never will makes liberalism as much of a pipe dream as the conspiracies of all other optimistic dogmas.
