https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55399.Gardens_of_the_Moon
Not to mention, Gardens of the Moon isn't nearly as well-written as the rest of the series.Not the most ringing endorsement so far, but we're getting there.The Malazan Book of the Fallen series is easily the most epic series I've ever read.
The history is mysterious (and murderous) and vast, the races are plentiful and old, and the magic is as powerful as it gets.How many times do you pick up a book that sounds epic, but you start to read and it really isn't?
It’s cool that Erikson doesn’t need to spend a hundred pages explaining every detail of his world to us (and given how complicated it is, thank GOD for that), but the reader shouldn’t have to stop reading many times in order to try to straighten out what’s going on, who are these random people that keep showing up, how does this new demon or magic fit into anything, and most importantly, all important, why on earth should I care?Erikson definitely did not manage to make me care.
I loved this book soooo much!!
There are things I don't understand but I have some lovely Goodreads friends I can go to if I need answers.
I love it 😄There was so much going on in the book but I kept up with most of it!
I thought, yay, you idiot!
I'm totally in love with Anomander Rake!
Anomander Rake's skin was jet-black, befitting Gothos' descriptions, but his mane flowed silver.
This book is one of the best epics I have read yet.
I kept watching soooo many of my Goodreads friends reading this series and I finally took the plunge!
I’ve heard countless amazing things about the series but the sizes, the spreading words of mouth on the complexities, the need for extra focus, the commitment, and the elitist assholes of the series made me postpone starting it for a long time.
Let’s also take a look at one of the action scenes in the book just to give you an idea of how huge in scope the battle was.Picture: Gardens of the Moon by Marc SimonettiThe scene in the picture above depicted the Siege of Pale that happened at chapter 2; it’s that early.
full review now up5/5 Buddy read with my soul sister and my pals at BB&B    “Ambition is not a dirty word. Piss on compromise. Go for the throat.”   So I have stared at my phone screen for approx 96 hours trying to think of a review for this and I'm still left speechless, so I have vomited up some words for y'all to enjoy, if you want a proper review check Eriksons GR page there's only 3,000 of them...  “Too many regrets. Lost chances—and with each one passing the less human we all became, a
The POV's switch back and forth and there's honestly like a 100 main characters, so yes it did get extremely overwhelming but the plot was so good that I didn't give a damn if I was confused, hell half the time I had no idea what was going on but I was okay with it because it was SO GODDAMN GOOD.
Not even joking that's how strange and epic this book is.But what really drew me in was the immense world building with so much attention to detail, the details weren't over kill so I enjoyed reading all the descriptions (so unlike me).
"Now these ashes gave grown cold, we open the old book.These oil-stained pages recount the tales of the Fallen,a frayed empire, words without warmth. The hearthhas ebbed, its gleam and life's sparks are but memoriesagainst dimming eyes - what cast my mind, what hue mythoughts as I open the Book of the Fallenand breathe deep the scent of history?Listen, then, to these words carried on that breath.These tales are the tales of us all, again yet again.We are history relived and that is all, without
I always like quotes and excerpts from in-world texts introducing chapters, and when those come in the form of poetry, it's even better.Let me talk a little bit about the setting then, which is by far the greatest strength of this book.
Genre-wise Erikson follows in Cook's footsteps and both the setting, the writing and the characters are similar to the ones found in the world of the Black Company.So in the end, I really liked Gardens of the Moon.
I am jealous of many of my Goodreads friends working their way through Malazan, so I have decided to do a re-read alongside them. I will do the recommended reading order this time too including ICE's books. :) x
Now THIS is what I call a pleasant surprise. I’m very tempted to jump right onto book two butFirst order of business: recharge brain battery. ~~~~~~~~~<<<<<<~~~~~~<<<<<<~~~~~Let’s... DO THIS!
It was awesome meeting the characters I love from the first read, everything got clearer and all the tiny clever bits which weren't spotted the first time - blew my mind 😱💜Original review 2016.11.12-23Crokus studied Moon's Spawn instead...'Do you see its oceans?' Apsalar asked.'What?' He turned.'Its oceans.
And we'll live in those gardens, warmed by the deep fires, and our children will swim like dolphins, and we'll be happy since there won't be any more wars, and no empires, and no swords and shields.Oh, Crokus, it'll be wonderful, won't it?My first encounter with Malazan world was reading the great review of Evgeny (thanks for the rec, friend :)).
Apr 2017: Rewritten, spoiler-free review. Gardens of the Moon is the overture to The Malazan Book of the Fallen, providing just a glimmer of what this massive, grimdark epic fantasy tale has to offer, which is best described below in the author's own words.   "Now these ashes have grown cold, we open the old book.These oil-stained pages recount the tales of the Fallen,a frayed empire, words without warmth. The hearthhas ebbed, its gleam and life's sparks are but memoriesagainst dimming eyes - wh
Gardens of the Moon is the overture to The Malazan Book of the Fallen, providing just a glimmer of what this massive, grimdark epic fantasy tale has to offer, which is best described below in the author's own words.
If you decide to embark on this journey through The Malazan Book of the Fallen (and I'll wholeheartedly recommend that you should), I bid you welcome to what may be the most rewarding hard work you'll ever undertake for the love of epic grimdark fantasy.This review can also be found at Booknest
Kruppe turned out to be my favorite character, with his excessive flowery speech, spewing hyperbolies and riddles, and the obvious "more than he seems" place in the story.
So, the Empress of this militaristic Empire, sends a team to try to destabilize and do as much damage as possible to the free city of Darujhistan in order to prepare it for a takeover.
I loved the world building and the characters were perfect for such a volume of action and developing legend for the series.
Mow I wish you all Happy Reading and may you always find what you need in the pages of a good book!!!!
the attempt to establish him as a speaks-his-mind kinda guy falls totally flat when you see him act like a jackass to the number 2 most powerful person in the land and then to some kind of Master of the Assassins.
he also acts like a jackass to GODS.
(3) i hate when non-human species act like humans in costume.
about a half dozen non-human species, many of whom seem genuinely alien (the two i mentioned above being the notable exceptions)....a great sense of scope, of so many larger things happening throughout so many places...
"Every decision you make can change he world. The best life is the one the gods don't notice. You want to live free, boy, live quietly." Great advice anytime, but even better advice when your world is in a constant state of war. Living large as the younger generation used to say. I'm sure I'm at least a few years out of date with that term. I think someone "living large" is exactly who the universe is most attracted to, not that it is above toying with the occasional poor bastard who just happen
I think someone "living large" is exactly who the universe is most attracted to, not that it is above toying with the occasional poor bastard who just happens to be in the wrong place at the wrong time.
I don't as a rule read fantasy books.
I've read the reviews, and one of the main points of concern to those that did not like this book is the massive, record breaking number of characters that are thrown at you.
I read this book every day until I finished it.
Like the Mazalan Empire there is no way to be neutral on this book.
25.01.2018. Re-read update:A brilliant introduction to the greatest epic fantasy series ever. A bold statement isn’t it? And a true one, as well.   ''Now these ashes have grown cold, we open the old book.These oil-stained pages recount the tales of the Fallen,a frayed empire, words without warmth. The hearth has ebbed, its gleam and life's sparks are but memories against dimming eyes - what cast my mind, what hue my thoughts as I open the Book of the Fallen and breathe deep the scent of history?
And yet, opinions about this series are divided; some see it as the best series ever and some hate it, so i decided it was time to see what all the fuss is about.When I started GotM I was overwhelmed, I felt like I was dropped in the middle of chaos and soon I found myself standing on the precipice and thinking: ''What in the hell have I gotten myself into?!'', but, since there was no going back I took a leap of faith and boy, am I glad I did!Erikson's style of writing is an acquired taste but when you get the gist of it you realize how good it really is.
There were so many times reading the series initially that I felt certain information and story arcs and characters just came out of left field.
But having read this first book again I am astounded at the sheer level and volume of foreshadowing contained right from the beginning.As a first time reader it is almost impossible to conceive of the notion that the author trusts the reader to discover the mysteries of a story for themselves.
And from then I was hooked on the Malazan universe.Thankfully that first time around, during the initial phases of the book Erikson’s style of writing included some fantastic imagery as well as some of the most badass action sequences ever that kept me coming back.
Chapter 21: Damn, this book has dragons that even I like and admire.Chapter 20: I want to know who the Circle Breaker is.Chapter 19: #sorrynotsorryChpater 18: Oh, I am one happy, fluffy bunny!
Also, if possible, try not to double-cross him.Chpater 14: These chapters fly by like crazy.
I dread the moment when it will break me like a piggy bank and the tears will flow.Chapter 11: I'll have you know Mr Erikson that I am now sitting at work surreptitiously reading your book under my desk.
All I can give you is a chapter breakdown of my own falling.The Malazan Book of the Fallen:2.
We want to hire the local assassins of a city to murder the city's leaders, so we will naturally assign this job to the only motherfuckers that we don't trust!We will free a Jaghut Tyrant in the hope that our enemy will be forced to face him, but we won't unleash the most powerful demon in our disposal in the same time to call it a success!
Why did Cotillion withdraw from Sorry after managing to infiltrate the Bridgeburners?-Bridgeburners-The most interesting characters among them were Kalam and Quick Ben. I love how Quick Ben pretends to be an average wizard for the whole book, and in the end he just casually opens 7 warrens all at once and fucks things up.
This was a buddy read with the gang at BB&B. Gardens of the Moon   is the first book in Steven Erikson's epic Malazan book of the Fallen series. The word epic may be overused when describing some books, but that is not the case here. Erikson has created one of the most vast world's I have ever read. The amount of characters, magic system, history, plots and subplots is on a level of its own. My advice when reading this is just go with the flow of the book. If you try to remember every detail
As I said before the amount of characters in this book is huge, but it really wasn't as hard to keep up with everyone as I thought it would be.Erikson does a good job grouping the characters and giving most of them unusual names that are hard to forget.
The first few books are mostly sectioned with different sets of characters.
This helps in getting used to all of them when they converge later in the story.There are many different powers at work throughout the book, and some of the gods and Ascendants like to be right in the middle of the action.
What a delightful larger-than-life fantasy novel!I was prepared to assume that it was going to be filled with an army of confused characters mired in grit and blood and that I shouldn't expect too much from the first novel because the series gets seriously good later.I might have managed my expectations a bit too much, because I was delighted, instead.
I've been a fan of the Final Fantasy RPGs since the first one, so I'm quite used to a lot of these tropes, plus I'm also a fan of the Cthulhu mythos, so godlings and demons raining down from the moon and infecting dreams, elder gods breaking through to the waking realm, and the dying souls of a race of immortals willing to give up everything for a final rest is all pretty much awesome.
Still, the Malazan series is often included in lists of all-time great fantasy novels*, and I do like to keep up with the genre Joneses.
Gardens of the Moon is set on an unnamed world mostly dominated by the expansionist Malazan Empire.
However, as there are so many significant characters that some are inevitably less successfully developed than others.Though this book is a little hard to get into once I became familiar with the setting and the characters I find Gardens of the Moon to be quite fast paced without a dull moment.
2nd Read March 2017This is still a bit of a complicated book with a lot of stuff in it and I'm glad I read it with BB&B so that we could discuss some of the things I wasn't quite picking up on.
So much is going on and there are so many PoV shifts that it doesn't matter that the narrator is really pretty good it just makes the entire thing very hard to follow.
Hopes:This is a completed series and it seems after reading a few reviews that on the second read everything makes much more sense and things from this book flow through the rest of the books.
I think the things that makes Erikson tough to figure out is the pure volume of information he's throwing at you.
There's one particular reveal in book 2, which I was blown away by in the first reading, that re-reading this it was so crystal clear if I just read between the lines.
Part of that was I had no idea who some of the fringe characters of this book would turn out to be.
The GOAT series holds up to a re-read.
Original Review:I think the thing that made this so enjoyable was that I knew going in it would be a challenge.
What an epic tale and this was only book one.
✎ Disclaimer #1: I had no shrimping idea this series had been inspired by The Most Wondrous Black Company before I started reading this delightful little book.
You are most welcome and stuff.✎Disclaimer #4: I must have read this book very wrong indeed, because despite its "you make me feel like a total moron" reputation, it didn't confuse me at all.
Reasons that justifies my misguided under-appreciation minor dislike of this exquisite little book here, you Silly Barnacles *tries to eyeroll herself to death* *fails miserably* *orders Fleet Admiral DaShrimp to take over with his most awesome compound eyes* Here goes:① Smells like teen spirit The Dazzlingly Sumptuous Black Company (view spoiler)[bet you didn't expect that one
I suggest putting it to good use, like I did.Nothing is clear from the start, but once you start getting invested and reading between the lines, you start to notice how truly amazing this book is.
There are a lot of characters, and despite finishing this mammoth book I feel like I have barely begun to scratch the surface of who they are.However there is a lot of action, and it is done well.
After struggling with the start of the book I suddenly found I could not put it down.
I truly enjoyed this book and can't wait to read the next one!
Originally I gave this book 4 stars but this re-read made me love the series again, the details I noticed this time around were just more spectacular than ever.
A high fantasy lover will appreciate this book and the series itself - I would go as far as to say that reading the first book of GotM will really determine whether you love the series or not.
I felt in love with it, the details, the interaction among the characters, the plain(s) of interaction is all I was looking for in a fantasy book.
Sure, his books have wizards and dragons and dudes on horseback slinging swords around, but in general Erikson's world is different enough that you don't necessarily know what's going on, and his staunch adherence to the show-don't-tell method means you gotta figure things out on your own.
It's all on you, hapless reader.But eventually I did figure enough of it out, and in time I began to see both Erikson's style and his kicking of conventions to the curb as good things.
For prospective initiates to the Malazan series I would recommend :- concentration- time- a notebook (large)- comfy sofa- plenty of snacksThis book gets 4 stars right now because of the amount of work it took to read it, but I reserve the right to upgrade later.
When I start getting the snacks in, routing around for my notebook, sharpening a pencil ( do people still do that?!) and scheduling a block of time where nothing much will be happening, then I will know I am ready for the next step in the adventure!
I was a shitty reading buddy here, disappeared right in the middle of the book for days, but she still didn't write me off of her will!I've heard a lot of stuff about this book before starting it.
So, I've started this book with dread and even made the mistake of reading the preface to see if it would gimme pointers.
Author doesn't let you get your bearings or feel invested in a character till near the end of the book.After finishing it, I realised that the book itself was not that hard to understand.
Me: But... aren't you stressed about how many series you've started reading??Also Me: FUCK OFF SELF I LIKE BEING MISERABLE!
A lot of events, action sequences, people, backstabbing, were very memorable.
One has a good army, strong leadership, a lot of high-ranking wizards, and an ally whose ancient forgotten magic is unrivaled.
The second city does not have any army except for city watch, the leadership is corrupted to high heaven, and is torn by internal conflicts.
Most of the action of the book is centered on the aftermath of this battle and intrigues related to upcoming conquest of the second city.
For fantasy fans who are not afraid to tackle complicated plots my advice: read this book now.
