https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/191793.Cakes_and_Ale
Somerset Maugham's Cakes and Ale (“Dost thou think because thou art virtuous there shall be no more cakes and ale?”--Twelfth Night) takes for its theme the doubleness of human character, ranging from the calculated hypocrisy of the “virtuous” (exemplified by literary opportunist and would-be biographer Alroy Kear) to the animal weaknesses of the goodhearted yet unreformable (Rosie, former barmaid and first wife of distinguished novelist Edward Driffield) and finally—and perhaps most interestingly—the doubleness that lurks at the root of the writer's heart (the recently deceased Driffield, but also Ashenden, Maugham's narrative voice and alter ego), the writer who is capable of exploiting his most intimate experiences, coldly, for the sake of his art.The theme of doubleness must have come easily to Maugham, a closeted gay Englishman who lived at a time when homosexual conduct was punishable by imprisonment, yet who, while spending most of each year on the Riviera—a destination he once described as “a sunny place for shady people”--lived life openly and freely at his villa La Mauresqueon, becoming notorious, in certain circles, for his pool parties au naturelle.
Why oh why have I not read anything by Maugham before?
I decided to read one of Maugham's novels because I knew from Gordon Bowker's biography of George Orwell that Orwell was a great admirer of his writing.
This particular novel suggested itself because of its subject (a satire on literary London in the early 20th century) and because it's apparently the novel for which Maugham himself most wanted to be remembered.
Maugham's crystal clear prose and his wry, ironic wit made the audiobook version of this novel an absolute joy to listen to.
I now understand why Orwell thought so highly of Maugham.
She had the serenity of a summer evening when the light fades slowly from the unclouded sky. There is something luscious about Maugham's beguiling sentences and vocabulary that had me underlining sentences, journaling through the margins, and circling words. For a Maugham book to overcome the depth and meaning of my favorite ( Of Human Bondage ), will be similar to finding a Cather read that surpasses the intentions within My Ántonia. Still, I tread through a few of his works because one never
Finally, there is Rosie and her husband Edward Driffield (the writer whose life story is outlined).
Driffield's story without Rosie is not too meaningful, especially since he wrote his many books while with her.
Yet with his second wife, Edward becomes a different man who lives the life expected of a celebrated author.
But hidden between the words spoken, is an intriguing and melancholic story that, if not revealed, does not make for an authentic biography.
Every now and then, the narration sneaks into sensory detail that is engaging, the way the story moves is fulfilling, and the omissions later revealed are enticing - just what one would expect from Maugham.
The other writer says the dead writer’s first wife was a bit common and not well liked – however, this is definitely not how the I in the book remembers her.They part, with the other writer less than happy with the outcome of their chat, and this sets the I in the novel thinking back to his childhood and in particular his curious relationship with the dead novelist and his wife – which turns out to be much more involved than he had admitted to the other writer.This pattern is then repeated.
As an introduction to his long fiction, this novella was perhaps not as successful as might have been wished; I didn't rate it as highly as a couple of my Goodreads friends in the group did.The Goodreads description for the book is reasonably accurate, though would-be biographer Kear doesn't suddenly "discover" the existence of his subject's spectacularly unfaithful first wife Rosie; he's known about her all along --and knows she's going to be a difficult "skeleton in the cupboard" to deal with in writing the kind of sanitized biography he wants to write.
These are summarized in the three following paragraphs.Humor: the book is a satire criticizing the social snobbery of the literary world and high society in London at the turn of the 20th century.
How the story is approached is what I am praising and what this says about interactions between people.What lies under the surface of the characters' behavior ?
You come to know whom the story is really about and how one person's life is rolled up in another's.
It is to his credit that I laughed rather than becoming annoyed in the high society of London.
MOM offers witty and deadly examples of the upward Fame Game.
His story is wrapped around a pushy, very popular novelist (Alroy Kear) who preens his careerism as he preps a bio of a lauded Victorian novelist (Edward Driffield) based on Thomas Hardy, recently deceased.
The Kear character is based on Hugh Walpole (does anyone read him today?), and MOMs real aim was to humiliate him for being a success.
A good sport, Sue liked sex and slept around; she also had a warm,  maternal  personality.In this story, Rosie Driffield sleeps around right and left, and her husband doesnt seem to know or care.
The real Rosie didnt have a husband.
Social climber Alroy Kear is flattered when he is selected by Edward Driffield's wife to pen the official biography of her lionized novelist husband, and determined to write a bestseller.
The full title is Cakes and Ale: or, The Skeleton in the Cupboard.
The narrator is Ashenden, so does this mean Cakes and Ales is also semi-autobiographical?
Ashenden is also the narrator of Maugham's novels The Moon and Sixpence and The Razor's Edge.The skeleton in the cupboard seems to be a certain Rosie, a sweet barmaid with a broad libido - Edward Driffield's first wife.
But the figure our narrator remembers is a more roguish and wilder character; and besides he has stronger memories of Driffield’s wife – a former barmaid – who history dismisses as vulgar and of no importance, but is clearly one of the loveliest women our narrator has ever met.For those with a yen for a particularly literary read, which is interested in authors and the world around them then ‘Cakes and Ale’ is highly recommended.
Somerset Maugham)Maugham's novel initially seems to focus on the literary world of England.
At first I thought the novel only was a vehicle used by Maugham to criticize the literary world, i.e. the path to fame, who knows who, etc, but I was pleasantly surprised as the full spectrum of the novel developed.
At other times he is very nostalgic and sweet bringing forward the realms of memory and love with great poetic gusto.
The novel has also sparked my interest in exploring additional works by Maugham.
It made me think about nostalgic moments in my own life and the flow of time.
I wanted to read Maugham and I chose this one for no particular reason.
I was almost tempted to put the book back on the shelf because of the uninspired Romanian translation - Life's pleasures - which sounds totally cheap, but I congratulate myself for checking the English title; at least it sounds interesting :)I like a good satire every now and then.
English society, mannerism, a writer's life, all these covered in witty, sharp and ironical observations.I've noticed that many readers around here consider the novel to be Rosie's story, but from my point of view it's not clear whether it's Rosie's, Driffield's or Willie's.
Rosie is something of an embarrassment in terms of the biography – a former barmaid, she was notoriously unfaithful and Driffield’s widow is keen to play down her role.This is very much a satire of literary London and you sense that Maugham is having a great deal of fun in writing this.
It was later suggested that this novel ruined Walpole’s literary reputation and, indeed, the remaining years of his life, although Maugham refused to acknowledge the suggested connections between the above mentioned authors and his characters.
I love books about sluts.
And Rosie Driffield was a big ol' slut.
Everyone who knows Rosie loves her.
When Willie Ashenden was a boy, Rosie and her husband Edward befriended him.
Many years later, he is asked to give his own personal recollections of Mr. Driffield, a known author of the time, to Alroy Kear who is also an author.
Kear is writing a book on the late Mr. Driffield at the request of Edward's second wife.
As Willie is reminiscing, he recalls his own affair with the lovely Rosie and comes to discover just how free she was with her favors.
A couple things; as I read this story I started enjoying it even though he was a tad verbose at times but when I came to the middle part and the last half I was thoroughly enjoying this story and after reading the last paragraph and thinking of it all, I loved it!💕💞 Also if you have not read Maugham yet, I would not start with this one but would read "Of Human Bondage" or "Liza of Lambeth" the reason being his thoughts on authors and that surrounds that topic might be a bit trying if just wanting to read a story not a dissertation.
'Cakes and Ale' is a multi-layered novel that was apparently Maugham’s favourite, and understandably so.
It’s a delight from start to finish.
It’s a satire about the then contemporary literary trends but also, in a counter narrative, a study of personal freedom.
Both narratives converge upon a recently deceased writer called Edward Driffield, however it is Driffield’s first wife, the guileless Rosie, who is the star of the show.
Rosie scandalises her snobbish neighbours who live and breathe Victorian morality.
Somerset Maugham’s novels and can confidently say that if you only ever read one, then make it 'Cakes and Ale'.
You may read online here.Opening lines:I have noticed that when someone asks for you on the telephon
The more I read Maugham, the more fascinated I am. In this book, he satirizes the "literary life." The book is funny and wicked. The novelist's wife is a great character, as are so many of the other ones. I recognized the writerly types and they were fun to read about in this novel. Plus, Maugham's storytelling ability is so natural that you want to follow him no matter what he does or where he goes. He's a pied piper.
Brilliant!
I am left with the thought that this will be the sort of book that will change for me each time I read it.
One who had "grave and maddening faults, but she was beautiful and honest" and so he created Cakes and Ale to give life to this woman in its pages.) Ashenden chafes at revealing too much into the personal lives of the couple who opened his eyes to class distinctions, broke some of those distinctions, befriended him, cultured him, nurtured him, and ultimately guided him a few of his life choices.
Purely as a reader, I found the douchebaggish Alroy Kear the most appealing character, and his rivalries with the narrator Ashenden more engaging than the storyline of the author Edward Driffield, so sparely sketched as to be almost a cipher (he is supposedly based on Thomas Hardy), or his voluptuous, spirited, low-class first wife Rosie.
I look forward to reading more of it.Here for example is a very minor character, the critic Allgood Newton, speaking with "unction" about a recent encounter with Driffield:I stopped him.
'Edward,' I said.
'What avenging furies urge you with such hot haste through the rakish purlieus of Pimlico?' I asked.
Maugham is the perfect summer holiday read.
The Americans, who are the most efficient people on earth, have carried this device to such a height of perfection and have invented so wide a range of pithy and hackneyed phrases that they can carry on an amusing and animated conversation without giving a moment's reflection to what they are saying and so leave their minds free to consider the more important matters of big business and fornication."Maugham makes poetry of insults!
Found a beautiful copy in a second hand bookshop and felt like I had uncovered treasure. I love the way Maugham slowly weaves his story together and the biting satire. He is a word wizard. The reader cannot skim a single page-ever.A fabulous book about writers and publishing, and although it was written over seventy years ago, it is so relevant today.
"One of the difficulties that a man has to cope with as he goes through life is what to do about the persons with whom he has once been intimate, and whose interest for him has in due course subsided." I Would Go Out Tonight, But I Haven't Got A Stitch To Wear. At its heart, the main emphasis of Cakes And Ale is a first-love/ older-woman story in the vein of Flaubert's Sentimental Education. But that's the innermost layer of narrative in a structure built up inside brackets and frames, and stor
What gets difficult is the inevitable fill-in game whereby the reader will recognize much of the story as autobiography, and attempt to fit real names into the character niches.
It is difficult to reconcile the acerbic tone of the society writer who narrates, with the bumblingly credulous younger man.
Complex inter-relationships are delved into repeatedly and parsed for truth or validity, as with all of Somerset Maugham; if the reader can stick to the text on the page, it all works out beautifully, if sadly at times.
But regarding author or narrator-- the real pressing truth of the day was that no Briton could out himself as gay at penalty of criminal prosecution.
I really couldn't get into this book, so disappointed. I've still got several W. Somerset Maugham novels on my bookshelf so hopefully the next one will be better!
Roy is a successful author while Ashenden's own books have largely been overlooked by the critics and forgotten by the public, but that's all right with him.
The problem is that what Ashenden known about the lovely, vivacious Rosie Driffield doesn't fit the public image Mrs. Driffield No. 2 has worked hard to carefully cultivate for her famous husband.
As the nephew of the local vicar, young Willie wasn't supposed to associate with the cottage-born Edward Driffield and his wife Rosie, a former barkeep.
Who was the real Edward Driffield?Rosie is the most colorful character in the story, yet I didn't like her much.
È questo misterioso personaggio, di cui negli anni si è perso quasi il ricordo, a giocare un ruolo principale nella storia di Maugham e nella storia del famoso scrittore stesso: proveniente da una piccola cittadina, essa viene ricordata come una poco di buono, ma soprattutto per essere tutto ad un tratto fuggita, abbandonando il marito tanto alla sua disperazione quanto al suo successo come scrittore.Di pagina in pagina il narratore, sempre in prima persona, svela pian piano tutta la storia: da un inizio in cui, furbescamente, al lettore viene fatto pensare che non ci sia niente dietro questa vicenda, ci troviamo in breve alle prese con tanti colpi di scena.
The last sentence on the back of the Penguin Classic jacket cover of this book reads, "A controversial novel when it was published, Cakes and Ale brings us a heroine so sensual and modern that she's still able to raise an eyebrow today." Unfortunately, the reader doesn't get to the sensual, controversial part of the novel until over 200 pages into it.
The rest of the book is about a writer writing in England.
Cakes and Ale is too concerned with writers and the act of writing for Rosie's role as muse to be overlooked.
"Cakes and Ale" being a shorter book, I thought I'd knock it out before beginning the larger work.I liked the style.
"Cakes and Ale" begins with a series of luncheons and character sketches which were delightful, but lacked any clear purpose.
In other words, he was making fun of the snobbery of London's literary community.
After 150 pages of luncheons and snobbery, a fun, funny affair held my interest and the second half of the book ended up being quite satisfying.
Not a life changing book, but a pleasant summer read and the beautiful prose of an old favorite author whose work I have only just begun to explore.
I mean not all authors could write English sentences delightfully readable like him.
Interestingly, from those stories, novels by Maugham I had read, I had never read any romantic part till I read this one dealing with his surprisingly brief affairs with Rosie, a lady of rare character.I encountered a few problems and I would appreciate your solutions.1.
159)In brief, I’ve found reading this Vintage book enticingly comfortable due to its large, thick fonts so my grateful thanks to those smart editorial staff.
I would assure you this is a manageably readable book by Maugham (195 pages) as an introduction to his heavyweight “Of Human Bondage” or “Collected Short Stories Volumes 1, 2, 3, 4.”
What made this novel controversial during its first publication in 1930, was that people said that the character of Edward Driffield is actually the novelist Thomas Hardy (Far From the Madding Crowd, Tess of the d'Ubervilles, Jude the Obscure, etc).
"I had read too many novels and had learnt too much at school not to know a good deal about love, but I thought it was a matter that only concerned young people.
That people over thirty should make love seemed to me rather disgusting.""Reverence for old age is one of the most admirable traits of the human race.""Let us face it: beauty is a bit of a bore."
