https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/672486.The_Timetables_of_History
Unlike any other reference volume, this book gives a sweeping overview of the making of the contemporary world by mapping out at a glance what was happening simultaneously, from the dawn of history to the present day.With nearly 100 pages of new material, including:-Recent breakthroughs in science and technology-New achievements in the visual arts and music-Milestones in religion, philosophy, and learning-The rise and fall of nations and the emergence of historical figures-Landmarks in the drama of daily life around the worldYes, I know, that’s really not very revealing.My book is a very large-format paperback.
I found it on some parents coffee table in college and have searched many years for it since.
It is a brilliant approach towards visualizing history, an often daunting subject to approach.
History & Politics, Literature & Theater, Religion Philosophy Learning, Visual Arts, Music, Science Technology Growth, and Daily Life.
Each year gets a short listing of the most prominent events and/or achievements of that time.As a musician it helps me better picture the world at the time when I can relate it to a timeline I am more familiar with.
A must buy for any parent looking to educate their kids in the most effective way possible.
I have carted the third edition around with me for years, but I rarely flip through it anymore.
Much like reading archaeology books that are fifty years out of date and based on debunked assumptions, this tome is more notable for its omissions than its content now.
Since it is based on the Kulturfahrplan, it is heavily Eurocentric.
China and 90% of Africa, and 60% of South America are completely ignored, but we learn when sequins were first made in Venice.
Not that it doesn't make for interesting reading, it's just going to make your unfortunate homeschooled children think that only white folks do anything of lasting historical importance.
We use this almost everyday in homeschool. So fascinating. We read about what else was "going on in history." Who knew that the sons of Mosiah were alive during the reign of Julius Caesar? Malachi loves concise history, these throughout lists of historical facts divided by year and category thoroughly fit the bill!
Not really a book to 'read'; it's more like a chart. Arranged by year and type of activity: art, war, politics, music, births/deaths, nature. Handy as a desk-reference if you're interested in a specific year; but not something to read page-by-page. Also: no photographs.
I was rather disappointed in this book.
Also, I would perhaps have structured it in such a way as not to waste so much space, (which not only wastes paper but makes the book very bulky physically speaking).
In it's current format, one cannot really look up events unless you know the exact date on which they ocurred, and if you already know that, you probably already know more about the event than the book has to offer...
It's fine as a coffee table book to browse through, but it's less useful as a tool when more focussed study is involved.
I’m in love~! This is amazing.
A helpful and clear reference guide of the key facts of various historical political, social and economic events
Helps give history perspective. Something it always desperately needs.
Pretty interesting.
This book, as the title says, provides a timetable where you can look up what the human race was doing at various times and places throughout history.
The book is oversize and runs a whopping 676 pages, and even then the entries are necessarily short in order to cover the whole of human history.
For example, it would have a hard time pinpointing origins of capitalism in practice or in ideas in a given year or decade, and any attempt to cover that topic would have to select a more or less arbitrary point for reference, or just to make mention in passing.
This weighty tome I picked up & was immediately engrossed, seeing year-by-year what the human race was building ...
and destroying ...
simultaneously.
It is also cool to have around when reading about a specific time period.These kind of books are also absolutely invaluable for home schooling giving parents historical context they would otherwise not have.As a reference work to assign projects to students or for students to find a topic to write a report, this book has no peer.
Example, you flip open the book to any year and you have 28 distinct squares each with an important event that can be researched and developed.
This is an interesting way of devising a history text, in columns by subject. Given is a brief overview of events as they occurred in chronological order, and organized in a way that makes it easy to see what was happening at the same time around the world from antiquity to 1990.Where this text is lacking is in the details. I see this as more of a novelty, and for quick reference. Research would be required into any details beyond the who/what/why/where/and when. Interesting, but not completely comprehensive.
This is, of course, not a book you can exactly sit through and read casually. However it is endlessly fascinating to me and it is a fun guide for just flipping through or if I am trying to place something, contextually, as a writer.I actually own two editions of this book-- one was being given away at a library because it was too old an edition to be truly useful any more, and now I also have this newest edition of the book.I may not have an opportunity to use it often, but it remains a delight in my collection.
It's pretty dry just to read through (which I did) but still interesting when a random fact pops up that sparks interest. I'd recommend it as a skimming book. If there's a year you're interested in, you can just turn to it. Or you could open to a random page every once in a while and find something intriguing. In any case, the format makes it easy to use and lines events up nicely.
My edition of this non-fiction text is not flashy, at all.What I like about the way the text and information is organized, is that you can see what was going on with different cultures all over the world, at the same time, on the same page, with little effort.
Grun and Stein's approach to history made a huge splash at the time, and really changed the way popular history was written, bringing about the "everyday life" totalist approach that's really familiar to us today.
I have an older edition...it ends with 1978....so I need to get a new one. This is a 'must have' book for anyone interested in history and the interaction of events and people from political or military events, religion, literature, the arts, etc. I constantly refer to it.
Reference books don't show up much here on Goodreads but this is a great at hand reference for those of us who don't confuse history with an elephantine recall of dates. You get to see music, culture, literature alongside technology which is sometimes a real wake-up call.
$3 at local bookstore
Not the most successful format, as I recall.
reference,history
Source: Book Club
Would make an awesome homeschooling resource, which is where I heard about this book.
This is a very cool way to check out events quickly when you're trying to put together things and can't quite remember when, who, where, etc. And it's just the facts. Because I hated history class.
The Timetables of History: A Horizontal Linkage of People and Events by Bernard Grun (1991)
this is a great overview of history categorized into different topics and gives a birds eye view of events
A great reference book to keep close at hand.
just timelines of basic events, very establishment.
Awesome reference book for background when reading stories set in the past.
