https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12125.Homecoming
The book is the story of Dicey, a young teen, and her three siblings.
After waiting for her to come back and realizing that she isn't going to, Dicey takes charge.
I don't want to spoil the rest of the book, but Dicey eventually meets up with some family and it is not at all what she was expecting.Dicey is one of my favorite heroines.
I remember looking up to her as I read this book as a pre-teen.
Dicey had so much faith that she would eventually find a home for herself and her siblings and was so set on keeping the four of them together.
Nobody could rest, really, until then.” What a delectable and fun read!Dicey and her sister and two brothers are left behind in the family car in a mall car park by their mother who doesn’t return.
Dicey takes it upon herself to get her family to Bridgeport by any means necessary, and so begins an adventure like no other.
The children sleep rough, scrounge and work for money and walk more miles than they would have dreamed.
The children are all highly realistic.
They bicker and whine and moan during the journey, but their love and loyalty to one another is so powerful.
I loved the Tillermans.
Homecoming was a dark book when I was in junior high school, and it's no less dark now.
Dealing with heavy themes of homelessness, death, dysfunction and neglect among other things, it's a story of shattered dreams and an unwelcome adventure to find the perfect home.
The Tillermans are all children.
That said, the Tillerman kids do love each other, and it's this driving force which keeps the story going.
With homelessness and abandonment unfortunately being very real issues many kids do face, these underdog heroes of this Connecticut-set story are great role models sharing a message to never give up.
I read this book in my early teen's and recently bought it for my daughter.I loved this book when I was young!
The book is about Dicey and her three younger siblings who were abandoned by their mother in a mall parking lot.
I could visualize all that was happening to these children as they walked cross-country after being abandoned by their mentally ill mother.
It's not often a book stays with you for so many years.
However, this book definitely stayed with me as an all time favorite.
Even though this is technically a young adult novel, many adults will likely find it a great read too.
I never got the chance to read this book when I was younger but as an adult I’ve thoroughly enjoyed reading all about Dicey and her younger siblings as they make their way to an aunt’s house whom they’ve never met after being abandoned in a shopping mall car park by their mentally ill mother.I don’t have a big sister but if I did I would love one like Dicey who is so strong brave and a real heroine.
It’s been fun reading an adventure story and Dicey as a character will stay with me a very long time.
This book grabbed me and wouldn't let go.
Unstable single mom drives to the mall and has the kids stay in the car.
The mall closes, and she is nowhere to be found.
The kids know that if they go to the police, they will be split up into separate foster care.
So, using every resource they possess, they head to the one relative they think might take them in, no matter that she is several states away.What a desperate, gripping situation.
This won a Newbery Honor, but I think it's just as good as Dicey's Song, which won the Medal.
But that thought was always there.)Last week I finished rereading Homecoming (as a grown up!) because I wanted to consider it for our girls Book Club but remembered its content to be heavy and wanted to evaluate whether I thought the girls were ready for it just yet.The story is a hard one, you guys.Dicey and her three younger siblings live with their mom on the coast.
The novel opens with the four kids waiting in their blue station wagon in the parking lot of a mall.
Cynthia Voigt has masterfully crafted a story that is SO totally complete and resonates in every way possible that I truly think that not even the world's greatest author could have improved upon this book.
The author touches on so many themes in such surprising depth that a shorter book simply could not have held the overflow of pure wisdom and warmth and love and humor and fidelity to one's goals that fills up "Homecoming", and spills out of the pages.
The saga of Dicey, James, Maybeth, and Sammy in "Homecoming" is one of the greatest that I have ever encountered in the ranks of literature, and this book is only the first of seven.
It starts off with four kids named Dicey, James, Maybeth, and Sammy Tillerman who are in search for a home after their mother abandoned them.
Dicey being the oldest child, decides they are going to walk to Bridgeport to find their Aunt Cilla.
Dicey was able to raise money while she was at Bridgeport so the kids are able to take the bus near their grandmother’s house.
The Tillermans run out of money, so they go find work at Mr. Rudyard’s house.
Will, the guy who runs the circus, saves the Tillermans lives and stands up to Mr. Rudyard.
Not enough superlatives for this one.I avidly read the Tillerman cycle (seven books) several years ago, and since then, have constantly recommended them to others.
Caruso does do a stellar job, and 'Homecoming,' if anything, was even more powerful and engrossing the second time around.My sister noted that the basic premise of 'Homecoming' is quite similar to that of 'The Boxcar Children.' It's a 'Boxcar Children' with profound depth and character development, a novel whose categorization as YA is far too limiting.
The four Tillerman children – the youngest six, the oldest (Dicey, the protagonist) thirteen – are left in a mall parking lot by their mentally ill mother.
In charge and uncertain, Dicey leads her family across Connecticut to where a great-aunt lives.
But after walking, hitching and working their way there, the four children find that the great-aunt is dead, and they still haven’t found a home.This is a powerful (and long, at 400 pages) young adult book, the first in a five-book series called the Tillerman cycle (the immediate sequel won the Newbery).
This is a hard read.
Here's every difficult mile and every frustrating delay of a long journey - with no safe haven at the end.
It wasn't enough by Dicey's standards.) And then there's yet another journey, and yet another uncertain destination.There's such a wealth of detail, such a wonderful exploration of people you meet along the road, and the extent of their kindness: where they give and where they stop giving.
And then, too, are the people who don't give at all.
This is probably the most difficult beginning to a children's series I've ever read.
When it becomes clear that their mother isn't coming back, thirteen-year-old Dicey conceives a daring and dangerous plan: since they know that they were on their way to live with their Aunt Cilla in Bridgeport, they will continue the journey on foot.
It's a thrilling, dangerous journey, and when they reach Bridgeport, things are not what they expected.I sometimes found my credulity stretched just a bit, in that the adults that the children meet seem curiously unwilling to question who the kids are and where they're going, but maybe that's more realistic than I would like to think.
Also my opinion of how Cynthia Voigt uses details and description in the book is a mix also, because sometimes it is needed, but sometimes its just there to string out the book.
But as they started to meet people along their journey, the story started to get just a little more interesting, and reassured me that they might meet their goal of getting to Aunt Cilla’s house safe and sound.I like how Cynthia Voigt developed the characters very well and that I loved how that I could just imagine Dicey and any other character standing there and reading the book to me.
This book took me quite a while to read, but it wasn’t because it was a bad story at all; for some reason, I was just content to read at a slower pace than normal.
I felt like the book did a good job of portraying what kids might actually do if they were in the situation of the Tillermans.
It was interesting to see how they dealt with basic necessities, like food, money, and shelter.
I enjoyed getting to know all four kids as the story progressed.
I don’t know if I’ll read the whole series, but I do plan to continue with the next book.
This is an exciting and heartfelt story about a strong girl and her younger siblings who are “on their own” when they’re apparently abandoned by their mother. I’ve always loved tales of kids left on their own (see A Long Way To Go, etc.) and this is a particularly good book with a compelling main character.
When she pointed out that  Homecoming was part of the fantastic children's book sale on Audible (seriously, I bought 10 books for $30), I decided it was time to finally read it.
The four Tillerman children are abandoned in a mall parking lot.
This book has a lot of walking and being hungry and scraping by.
(Those kids must have been so sunburned.) But the thing that saved the day, every time, is the bond between the children.
In the end, I really loved all the characters, and I definitely want to continue with the series.
(view spoiler)[I want to see more of the grandmother.
This book was a really great journey for the characters and me as the reader. It was almost as if I was a member of the Tillerman family, and I went through the ups and downs throughout the plot of the story. I highly recommend this book to anyone in the need of a good realistic fiction book.
Though the characters will stick with you; like Judy Bloom, The Cat in the Hat, and Winnie the Pooh; the book will not.
While detail is necessary to create and develop a story and its characters, in this case there was too much detail.
The characters throughout the story are interesting and well-developed.
Cousin Eunice and Mr. Rudyard, well, these two you must read the story to learn more about their time in the lives of the Tillermans.
Character development was a highlight of this book.
Homecoming, by Cynthia Voigt, has changed my perspective on the way books are supposed to be like.
However, after reading Homecoming, I noticed that adventure and mystery are not the only genres that make a satisfying story for me.
The children's names are Dicey, James, Maybeth, and Sammy.
Even though the beginning strikes me as odd, I felt very sentimental when I read that the children were in search of a home.
Dicey realizes that Cousin's Eunice's house was not a home.
I think it is very inspiring to see children giving up on a shelter to find a real home.
And the weird thing is, I've read and loved almost every other book by Cynthia Voigt.
?I kept thinking about how different this book would be if it were written today.
I'm really glad that this was written in a time when that wasn't de rigeur in kids' books.
Family Services would have been called by the end of chapter one, and if a kid tried to carry groceries for tip money, the store manager would probably call the cops immediately.
In fact, I'm so invested that as I walked through the library today I passed Dicey's Song and immediately picked it up!
Homecoming by Cynthia Voigt is a book about four children (Dicey, Sammy, Maybeth, and James) looking for the right home after their mother abandons them in a parking lot.
But, this book sure did have its downs.I disliked how it was really long because of so much detail she would put in describing something that wasn’t vital to the story.
One last thing that I didn’t like was how depressing this story was.
Homecoming by Cynthia Voigt certainly was a well written book, but even a good book has it flaws at one point.

I first read this book years ago and I enjoyed this just as much now as I did then.
There are some slow parts in this and it does take a long time before the children meet their Grandmother, but it's fun to see everything that these children have to endure and what they have to do to survive.
My favorite parts of the book are when the children make it to the Grandmothers house and everything they do to keep prolonging their stay there.
I am glad that I finally got around to re-reading this wonderful book from my childhood.
I just re-read this series of books, which I read for the first time when I was about eleven. I loved them then and I was pleased to discover that they are just as good to read as an adult. They are well written and thoughtful, and all the characters, even the minor ones, feel very rich and complex. I hope that I will be able to read them to my own children someday!
So thoughtfully written....painfully thoughtful. The world is highly realistic. So packed with thingS happening that it drains you and starts to drag on.
Parts reminded me of The Boxcar Children (which I haven't read in years, but which was a favorite when I was in the middle grade years).
I HATED this book!
This could have been so much shorter if everything that wasn't really relevant to the point was cut out.
I hated this book. Sorry to anyone who likes it, I felt it was not well written.
