https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/534289.The_I_Ching_or_Book_of_Changes
I read a little bit of this book almost every day.
I don't know how to use divination with it, but I feel like it is a reliable friend who always gives good advice pertinant to my situation.
My favorite line today is, "Everything that gives light is dependent on something to which it clings, in order that it may continue to shine" (119, trigram 30, The Clinging, Fire).
This is how I feel about books.
Books are the things to which I cling and which allow me to contribute any portion of light to the world (ie.
I know that in NORMAL circles, it's odd to read an ancient chinese text upon which a non-theistic religion is based.
SO, let me say that of all the religious texts I have ever read, there is something fundamentally gorgeous about the foundations of this Taoist book.
But you'd have to read the book to understand any of that.
Maybe because it is a wisdom that is symbolic and personal, not a story about someone else, but a true story about MYSELF.
I've seen multiple philosophers, writers, History Channel documentaries, heck, even Sean Connery in Zardoz quote the I Ching.
Don't they realize that the I Ching's advice is directed towards the specific hexagram casted in response to a specific question?
Take these two quotes, as an example:"It is worthwhile to cross great rivers.""It is not worthwhile to cross great rivers."So is it worthwhile to cross great rivers or not?
Without casting, who would know!
You could choose the former, and cross that great river, and all get dysentery and get swept away!
"Most likely" safe to cross, huh.
My I Ching- the Blofeld translation- was amongst these.
Some ten years later, I was browsing a bookstore on Haight St. and found a copy of the I Ching in the dollar discount rack.
So what are the odds of anyone finding again the exact same copy of a book long abandoned and given up for dead?
"It must have been karma, man."I originally got my copy somewhere around 1969, and bought it specifically because it was smaller, more portable, much less expensive, and an easier ("less thick") translation than the Wilhelm book.
The introduction by C.G. Jung was quite helpful in making sense of these ancient "divination texts" as reflective tools.
So helpful that I tried it several times with the simple coin method and could see what he was getting at.
Intellectually, however, the most interesting thing was the suggestion of a radically different sense of time.
Emotionally, I had been brought up with the ideology of evolutionary progress while intellectually I subscribed to the notion of time as the essentially neutral schematization of change.
Here, in the I Ching, was a formalistic approach to time.
I have used this little Book of Changes for about 15 years (I'm on my second copy) and it has never, ever, ever steered me wrong (unless I've ignored what it said, which has been far too often).
Sure, you may think that throwing three coins in the air six times can't tell you anything, but you'd be surprised at how accurate the I Ching is.
I've read other I Ching books and this is by far the most accessible.
The I Ching is NOT about telling the future (in case you were hoping it was) - it's really about how to live and it fits into any religion or no religion.
This book has changed my life more than once. It's an old friend now, dog-eared and battered from travels on five continents, a bit salt-stained from time at sea. In the 1980s I created a software version on a floppy disk. In 2014 I upgraded that to an app for iPhone, Kindle, iPad, Android, and Apple Watch. It's my spelunking buddy in the caverns of the sub-conscious, my wise father, my Sancho Panza, my mystic magician. You might enjoy this piece I wrote about the I Ching in WIRED: My Quest to bring Hippy Mysticism to the Apple Watch.
great to practice and brood. my hero Dotan Naor in my thrillers use it when he wonder which path to take to solve a case.
So I would ask the book a question and throw a hexagram which vaguely commented on my issue.
Many smart people have read the I Ching simply as a book of wisdom.
Like astrology, the I Ching divides life into archetypes, forces that play off of each other in creating the basic human experience.
The I Ching philosophy is a model and like any model some people will find it hopelessly vague, but this should never be your excuse for avoiding this kind of writing.
Mind blown. The Book of Changes has changed me--significantly and substantially.
However, I have other translations I use for faster readings or for explanations/explorations into deeper aspects of the figures.
My longtime copy of this book has been packed away for several years (long story!), and I have continually thought that it will surface one day.
Finally, recently, I realized that it's okay simply to buy another copy!
Seeing it on my shelves again is like finding an old friend to reconnect with.I also recommend highly the Introduction in this book, just for good reading, for it is written by Carl Jung, who was a friend of Richard Wilhelm (the translator) and who tells a charming story of his own discovery of the I Ching through Wilhelm's friendship.For English readers, I would guess that this is the "authentic" version.
Devo rileggermi l'introduzione di C.G.Jung perchè Brunella Antomarini in Pensare con l'errore dedica quasi un capitolo a I Ching ed ho bisogno di confrontarle.
ئی چینگ یا کتاب دگرگونیها، کتاب مقدس چینیان است و کهنترین متن بهجامانده از چین باستان.
در این کتاب مقدس، که بیش از چهار هزار سال قدمت دارد شصت و چهار علامت همراه با تفسیر آن آورده شدهاستمضمون ئی چینگ: هدف «ئی چینگ» بیان تغییراتی است که در سطح کیهان رخ میدهند و امواج و حلقههای بخت را تشکیل میدهند.
انسان به وسیله «ئی چینگ» نیروهای بخت را رهبری میکند، و از رویدادهای درون زندگی با خبر میشود و در مواقع موردنیاز میتواند جریان زندگی را به سود خود تغییر دهد.
«ئی چینگ» نمیگوید که چه چیزی در آینده رخ میده
در این کتاب مقدس، که بیش از چهار هزار سال قدمت دارد شصت و چهار علامت همراه با تفسیر آن آورده شده‌استمضمون ئی چینگ: هدف «ئی چینگ» بیان تغییراتی است که در سطح کیهان رخ می‌دهند و امواج و حلقه‌های بخت را تشکیل می‌دهند.
بعدها این کتاب به «کتاب چویی» معروف شددر اوایل سده پنجم پیش از میلاد، کنفوسیوس «چویی» را مطالعه کرد، و به احتمال زیاد بعضی از تفسیرهای «ئی چینگ» را او یا شاگردانش نوشته باشند.
در اواخر قرن سوم میلادی عارفی جوان به نام «وانگ پی» با مطالعه «ئی چینگ» آن را فلسفه زندگی شمرد.
There are three books I use most often when I throw the coins: the classic Wilhelm/Baynes translation, this one, and Carol Anthony's A Guide to the I Ching.
What I like about the Alfred Huang book is that it is very readable and useful, and at the same time feels like it is conveying the nuances of the Chinese meanings better than any other translation I have used.
And then Anthony's commentaries add a layer of interpretation that strongly resonates with me.I have a number of other translations I also like, but these are the three I find I come back to most often for regular use.
This isn't a book that you sit down a read through (although you can if you want), but more of a tool to use daily/weekly/whenever the needed arises.
The wisdom in these pages is incredible, and for whatever reason whichever chapter(s) you roll, the advise within said chapters is always relevant.
I highly suggest everyone get a copy and use it to provide some perspective whenever you find yourself in need.
You don't need to believe in any supernatural powers to utilize this.
Its power lies in it's ability to be relevant no matter what - you unconsciously make it fit into whatever is going on in your life.
It profits the wise man to cross the water,to be still in winter,active in summer,humble in lifeand graceful in death
A beautiful book that teaches us that change can't be changed...it will become what it was meant to be without our consideration or approval.
A translation into a mixture of English and Latin.
Some commentaries are translated."Horses wheel; They pull at odds.
A Destination Is Auspicious, Hoc bonum.
All things Profit, In nullo non convenit."On the Image: Both the seeking and the Destination Show clarity, Claritas."[Author’s commentary] Yin Line in Yin Place.
All is ‘clear.’ This Line Resonates with Yang in First Place.
Suffice to say I was not satisfied with this translation and I find the Wilhelm far superior.
Yes, I KNOW. All of the hackles on your back are going up as you read this title. All I can say is that when you read this (and, yep, cast the pennies in this case) you will think this is SO much baloney. But, I really think that the readings are just a way to think about your life using a new window - what's another way to look at my situation? Everytime I think about an issue using this, I have a new insight - it's darn straight-forward.
de facto translation of the i ching for english-onlys like us americans tend to be. if you are really interested in the i ching, you need to read this book at least once and to keep it as a reference. the readings are incredibly insightful and sound incredibly natural given the two levels of translation (chinese -> german -> english). i often find myself wondering if the obfuscation of the double translation is actually a blessing for such an esoteric and uninterpretable text.
4 stars is a little generous in my book, but these are 4 stars relative to other works. A good all-around translation. I think he adds too much at times, perhaps lending to much credibility to his own interpretations. Nonetheless, it is nice to see how a well-educated Taoist would present his understanding of the Yi Jing to others.
This is only alive book I know. I'm reading it constantly or maybe it would be more correct to say am talking with it constantly.
I've been studying this book since 1973, the same year I went to college.
IT'S ALIVE!!!
Supongo que es como el horóscopo, que es tan generalista que se adapta a todos los que lo leen, aunque en realidad esta es solo una burda comparación teniendo en cuenta que este método es de los más antiguos que se conocen en la Humanidad.Por eso considero que, salvo que seas un estudioso de estas lides, el valor real que se queda en el cerebro del que lo lea es el de saber que la vida en otros tiempos y otras culturas era tan diferente a la nuestra que no podemos hacer traslaciones directas de nuestros pensamientos y actuaciones a esas épocas porque está fuera de contexto.
And secondly, the introduction by John Minford was excellent, with a history of divination that progressed to the I Ching, as well as very useful examples of how to actually DO it--when I first got the book and flipped through it, it seemed all fine and dandy, but although you can flip through the hexagrams, how do you actually read some meaning out of it?
This is what the author laid out quite nicely.To me, this book is like Tarot cards, and I use it in a similar manner to the cards.
Although the process is different, the spirit of it is the same.
This is THE authoritative version of the I Ching, or Book of Changes.
It is both a compendium of ancient knowledge that is still perfectly applicable to contemporary situations, and an oracle that clearly defines any situation and points to the correct action (or non-action) required to resolve the situation in the most effective manner.
I have used the oracle on and off for nearly 50 years and it has never led me astray.
There is a wonderful Foreword written by Carl Jung, who used the German version of the oracle to cast light on events in his own life.
You aren't really meant to read it from cover to cover.
It's more something that you delve into in a semi-chaotic manner from time to time.
The text functions as something of a "random fresh-perspective generator" and can help you to see specific problems in a new light.I found it pretty insightful and hope that i can find it useful in the future.
I haven't spent enough time with it to be able to recommend it but i suspect most people would find the sort of input that the I Ching can offer to be helpful in a wide variety of situations.
ييچينگ يا (كتاب تقديرات) كتاب مقدس چينينان است و كهنترين متن به جا مانده از چين باستان. اين كتاب مقدس كه بيش از چهار هزار سال قدمت دارد، از آيينهاي اوليهي چين باستان نشأت گرفته است و از شصت و چهار علامت و تفسير اين علائم تشكيل شده است. اعتقاد چينيان قديم بر اين بوده كه تمام تحولاتي كه در درون و برون آدمي رخ ميدهد، در اين شصت و چهار علامت خلاصه ميشود
يي‌چينگ يا (كتاب تقديرات) كتاب مقدس چينينان است و كهن‌ترين متن به جا مانده از چين باستان. اين كتاب مقدس كه بيش از چهار هزار سال قدمت دارد، از آيينهاي اوليه‌ي چين باستان نشأت گرفته است و از شصت و چهار علامت و تفسير اين علائم تشكيل شده است. اعتقاد چينيان قديم بر اين بوده كه تمام تحولاتي كه در درون و برون آدمي رخ مي‌دهد، در اين شصت و چهار علامت خلاصه مي‌شود
If you are looking for a beginners book on the I Ching that is easy to understand and easy to use then this book is for you.I use it almost daily and it never fails to offer good advice.
