https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2609027-the-house-of-dr-edwardes
Spellbound, the movie based on the Francis Beeding book. Anyone trying to get familiar with Psychoanalysis should see this movie. The major concepts are all there: trauma in childhood as cause for psychological illness, amnesia, dream analysis, patient-therapist relation, healing etc, etc.It's a black-and-white movie, but, I guess, it will certainly color your thoughts.  I have recently re-read an issue (of 2004) of the French magazine LNO*, all dedicated to Psychoanalysis, but in a very critica
The one arriving is Doctor Anthony Edwardes (Gregory Peck); a famous man, namely for his book “The labyrinth of the guilt complex”.At Manors, work several doctors…but one is very central in the movie: a female doctor called Constance Peterson [played by Ingrid Bergman]; one who is young, totally committed to work and little to “love”.
Well, it turns out....maybe a bit like the expected: Doctor Edwardes turns into Constance's patient.
To Murchison the impostor collapsed in the operation because he could not “face truth!”: he had murdered the true Doctor Edwardes.
Police is after him; Constance joins him in N.York; they find refuge at her psychoanalyst professor/mentor: doctor Brulov.
From BBC radio 4 - Saturday Drama:Newly qualified psychiatrist, Constance Sedgwick arrives at Landry
Ho deciso di leggerlo per mera curiosità, perché su questo romanzo è basato l’omonimo e famosissimo film di Alfred Hitchcock.
Ma i due hanno ben poco in comune, a parte qualche nome e qualche rara situazione.
Titolo e copertina fanno riferimento alla pellicola e nulla hanno a che spartire con il libro, che ha risvolti gotici assai poco credibili, nonché spesso noiosi.
Comunque, è interessante osservare come, a volte, partendo da un determinato punto si finisca per arrivare da tutt’altra parte rispetto a quello che si supponeva.
Evidentemente Hitchcock ha elaborato la materia sino a giungere dove gli premeva arrivare.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qku4j...
La ragione è che non ho mai amato particolarmente il film del 1945 tratto da questo libro.
Altro che giallo psicologico!
Qui si toccano argomenti da scomunica...sì, perché il libro è un riuscitissimo foeuilleton dalle tinte più proibite che proibite non si può.
Perché pochi thriller mi hanno fatta tremare tanto quanto questo piccolo capolavoro dell'horror.Per stomaci forti.
I've decided to do it this way because the film was an instant favourite of mine, with actors whom I adore, a director whose style I love, lots of uses of psychology and psychoanalysis of the subconscious, and the art of Salvador Dali to top it all off--a perfect movie suited to my tastes, in other words.The book is...really different in this respect.Okay, so, what I DID like is the general setup of the asylum, and its patients.
So, yes, again, while the characters are strong, the psychology behind them was strangely lacking.Another thing that I DID NOT like is the whole devil-worshiping angle of the story.
Loved this story!
This novel from 1927 is set in Chateau Landry, a medieval castle in the French Alps which has been converted to a mental institution for moneyed patients by the English psychiatrist, Dr. Edwardes.
It is only when the dangerous patient brought to the institute by Murchison gains the upper hand that the situation becomes life threatening, with satanic rites and human sacrifices replacing the chapel services and golf outings instituted by Dr Edwardes.An early description of Dr Sedgwick’s mental habits gives a nice metaphor for mental illness:It was her habit to put her thoughts, as she termed it, into boxes – one box for each thought or subject.
I suppose this can be considered a good example of how a so-so novel can be used as a starting-point to make a remarkable film.It's very different from SPELLBOUND (amnesia doesn't figure into the story, for one thing), and is set almost entirely in the mental institution run by Dr. Edwardes who is away for a rest (at least, that's what we assume...).
The story opens as she takes up her post at the asylum under the direction of Dr Murchison, an assistant of Dr Edwardes, who remains in charge while the latter is on vacation.I’d always wanted to read the book that inspired the Hitchcock film and didn’t realize that it had been published in paperback form as Spellbound in 1987.
However, for those who’ve seen the film, the similarities between the two are only superficial: the action takes place in an asylum, both plots feature an imposter as a central character, both have a Dr Murchison, and the heroine’s first name in each is Constance.
Frances Beeding does a fantastic job of playing directly on the fears and worries the public no doubt had in this wonderfully written novel that never fails to keep you wondering what is going to happen next.
Used by Hitchcock as basis for his movie Spellbound, this is one case where the movie is far, far better than the book.
Written in 1927, the book reads more like something from 50-75 years earlier.
As with most of that genre from the mid to late 1800s, the opening is fine, the middle far too drawn out, and the ending too pat.
The only common point between the movie and the book is the basic premise of a lunatic posing as a psychiatrist.
The main difference between the two is that the movie is brilliant and the book is not.
For those with active imaginations and willing to use them this is a good read. While the story differs from the movie Spellbound, you will find the edgy, sinister, foreboding atmosphere, that all good Hitchcock junkies require.But, like many old late show movie favorites your sense of mounting tension may often be interrupted by your logical, thinking side trying to impose itself on an otherwise other worldly experience.So, don't let logic butt-in and spoil your good time, just be scared and have some fun.
The House of Dr. Edwardes is a modern gothic novel about about madness, power and terror. When a mental asylum receives a new director, reality and fantasy, sanity and madness become harder and harder to distinguish. I highly recommend it-a real spine-tingler! Side note:The House of Dr. Edwardes was written by John Leslie Palmer and Hilary Aidan St. George Saunders under the pseudonym Francis Beeding. Hitchcock based Spellbound loosely upon this gothic detective story.
I read this because it was the basis for the Hitchcock movie Spellbound. It was, however, very little like the movie. Hitchcock changed the story radically.The original novel conveys a creepy atmosphere well, but the mystery at its heart is easily solved and the plot moves too slowly. It builds to a wearisome climax of will-she-or-won't-she-be-raped, one of my least favorite literary tropes. All in all, a waste of reading time.
I read this book as a reissue entitled Spellbound. this book was the inspiration for Hitchcock's movie "Spellbound", the only similarities to the book and movie are the names of Dr. Edwardes, Dr. Murchison, and Constance. not a bad book at all. i was kept in suspense from beginning to end. it's a shame Hitchcock couldn't follow the book exactly b/c a movie of this book by him would have been incredible... not that Spellbound isn't a fantastic in itself.
This was a terrible book. It was the January selection for Lifelong Learning's Book to Film series. No one in the discussion group liked it either. The only positive comment being that it was at least a very quick read. The movie, Spellbound, was terrific however. It bore no resemblance to the book.
Not the movie...I am fond of the movie that was taken, very loosely, from this book; Spellbound. See the movie again, for this has only a mental hospital & some character names that are present in the movie. Satanism is featured to some degree. I borrowed this book on Kindle Unlimited. Glad I didn't waste any money, just a little time.
This book was the basis for Hitchcock's film Spellbound with Gregory Peck and Ingrid Bergman. As a huge Hitchcock fan, I had to read the book. The book is quite different from the movie as usual, but I thought the book was extremely creepy in its own right and I could see why Hitchcock would be inspired by it. I liked the psychological aspects despite it's somewhat predictability.
A creaky old melodrama that was the basis for Hitchcock's Spellbound, which is why I downloaded it. It's a creepy tale of what happens when the lunatics take over the asylum--literally. It's not even close to the film, but it's got its own brand of creepy charm.
By now, the twist premise (which I'm not going to spoil for you) has been so overused that it doesn't seem strong enough to carry a novel alone, but the first two-thirds are still a classic example of keeping things ominous without obviously telegraphing all of what's going on.
After a year of reading, I finished the last half of the book in about a day. A psychological thriller from the 1920s set in an isolated private mental institution. I'm not sure I'd the first half is really that much shower than the second half, but the climax and conclusion were riveting.
Very good gothic mystery, set in an insane asylum... so how could it go wrong?
Started by liking it, but ended up bored with the devil worship and skipped through to the end.
Probably a 3.5 star, kind of freaky!
not a great ending but a fun read
A bit predictable, but a very good read.
The first part of the book moves a bit too slowly and it's pretty easy to figure out one of the big secrets. The second part really picks up the pace and it's sufficiently tense at the end.
It was more frightening than I imagined it could be Hitchcock had good material for his film!
