https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/464685.Tarnsman_of_Gor
[…. The following was discovered by investigators at the scene of the Tarnsman Incident in late April, 2011. The narrative report is reproduced in its entirety and a transcription of the audio recording made by Officer Honcho is reproduced to the extent possible...]GOODREADS LITERARY POLICE REPORTCASE No. TBDOFFICER: Mike HonchoDATE: April 29, 2011NARRATIVE REPORT (Draft only....not for official release)At approximately 06:15 am, I was shaking down hookers on routine patrol on Robert E. Howar
I’m beginning to suspect what has happened to the victim and I know I should wait for back-up, but the book has affected me enough that I feel like such a cheap, stupid piece of shit.
Now imagine that you're trying to chase and net an escaped tiger.The training should have looked like a combination between how we train large predators like tigers and how we train animals which could easily evade us at any moment, like falcons or dolphins.
Norman fails to do the work necessary to present animal training properly, but in this failure, we get an insight into his character.The book, like many others of the genre, shows a very simplistic view of power dynamic.
It seems as though women can read historical romance novels full of sex scenes and tight corsets and restrictive clothing that was nothing less than a lacey form of female bondage - that involve women being bought and sold through arranged marriages under a very dominant male society, but God forbid it if guys want to read the same thing under their own genre, whether or not they actually take that stuff seriously!I really liked it and I think it would be less controversial for first time readers today as people have grown up a little bit since the bra burning era of the late 60's and 70's.
I can't remember these books very well other than they were horribly sexist and I had to hide from my Mom when I read them. I think if I went back to read them again I'd be shocked and horrified, so I will leave it to my teenage affection and not sully the memory of enjoying the smut.
the Gor series.
At first it was just sort of Nietzchean-Burroughsian sword-and-sandal escapism with an overtone of sexist-pigotry, but then he spun off into porno world-building.
It is kind of like watching a slow-motion train wreck.If he'd written them as porn, he would have been long since forgotten; I'm still pretty amazed that a mainstream publisher ever published these.
I think the action sequences work and the politics and world-building are WAY less clunky and boneheaded than that of ERB -- in fact, I think Norman's universe is actually pretty fun even taking the SM out of the equation.
And Tarnsman of Gor is my favorite among them.
Fifty shades of looking at things from the flip side!Ok this was just a bit of a joke review. My fifteen year old self gave this five stars. I mean look at the hottie on the cover! What more does a boy need? Now thirty years later, it's only four and half stars. Now that's a little something I like to call maturing.
But a few days ago, with my heart pounding out of fear I'd be caught, I gave into that same curiosity I had as a kid and finally read this book and its companion volume "Outlaw of Gor." What we have is a Sword and Planet adventure of the highest magnitude.
I heartily recommend this book to any fans of the Sword and Planet genre and to anyone who wants to read something that is truly unique and inspiring.
This was my secret indulgence and, boy-oh-boy, how my fantasy consumption had suddenly gone wayward, from Tolkien to Lloyd Alexander to John Norman?
As stated, up until then, fantasy consisted purely of Tolkien's Middle-Earth and Alexander's Prydain.
I went on reading several of Norman's Gor series, spending allowance and lawn-mowing money to purchase one on a nigh-weekly basis.
Adding to the fun was the fact that I managed to get the girl-next-door interested (she was 14, too) and so after I read each book I'd give them to her and we'd eventually have our own little private summertime book club on her porch swing, discussing the adventures of Tarl Cabot, his menagerie of slave girls, and his constant struggles against the grotesque and relentless Priest-Kings of Gor.What a fun and surreptitious bit of nostalgia.
I have two very good reasons as to why this book has a two star rating.First reason: The author can spell words correctly and understands basic grammar.Second reason: One star books are best left to disappear into the void.
It needs to be the piece of literature (if you can call it that) that we use ten, a hundred, a thousand years down the road to show a future society why feminists are needed in society.
If you have not read this book, you cannot begin to imagine the horrendous levels of misogyny in this book.
Ok...this one was surprisingly good.
Like.
GOOD.
Yes there's a lack of real description, character emotions, and the pace was fast.
But dammit, I LIKED it.
I know lots of readers are like "boo slavery of woman", etc, and I can't agree.
And Tarl admitted it was unseemly, and pret-ty sure that he didn't keep a slave himself, if not only faking it for the woman he loved and his own self preservation.
This does NOT mean I condone slavery, or woman sexism.
Hate me if you wish, I'll send my sable tarn at you.
Overall, I was left pleasantly impressed, and desiring my own tarn now.
Gor’s caste system doesn’t sit well with Professor Cabot’s 20th century Earth ideas and, at least at first, he’s especially appalled that Goreans keep slaves and even have them branded, collared, and leashed.
But when Tarl is given a dangerous mission, he finds out that not all women on Gor are weak and submissive!Tarnsman of Gor (originally published in 1967) is quintessential male-oriented sword & sorcery fantasy: intelligent but modest Earth man goes to another planet where he’s suddenly courageous, powerful, and important and he whoops up on all male challengers.
The Good:The setting is detailed and quite interesting.
Action and adventure abound.
There were some cool ideas but this book is over fifty years old, and I’m sure they’ve all been done either before or since.The Bad:I’m not one to jump on the latest fashions in political ideas but the portrayal of women here is indeed cringeworthy.
There is a frustrating amount of simplistic philosophy, and the implausible protagonist lacks charisma.'Friends' character the protagonist is most like:Tarl Cabot is the best at everything, plus more moral and rational than anyone else.
Chandler got caught once masturbating, so that’s the obvious comparison.
Before George R R Martin had lifted a pen was The Gor books now classed as Bondage fantasy sexist books but back when I was 13ys old I never heard Master & Slave these highly sexist books were good fun & don't care what anyone says they were just the thing after Conan or Edgar Rice Burroughs.
I have not seen any floating around since 1990s but I am sure if look around they be available.
As for been erotic it's no worse Than 50shades but if it's to sexist you can always not read it.
Over 34books in this series but the first 1-12 are the best
Okej moram da priznam knjiga je bolja nego sto sam ocekivao, a sobzirom kolko su mi mala bila ocekivanja i ova ocena je odlicna. Samo delo po meni predstavlja manje vise kopiju John Cartera (tronsportovan na drugi svet gde postaje heroj, osvaja zenu svog zivota, bude vracen na zemlju itd) i kao takvo fino se poigrava sa takvim temama ali na kraju ipak dosta slabije delo pa samim tim sumnjam da cu nastaviti sa serijalom.
John Norman's "alternate-Earth" is one of those series that every SF/fantasy fan (or at least, every guy) has probably read, but no one wants to admit it, or else you have to layer lots of disclaimers, like I'm doing.
But the series goes off the rails pretty quickly, so if you're caught reading the later books, you deserve all the sneers you'll get.* Strictly speaking, there is no sorcery: there's no actual magic on Gor, and later on we find out about advanced alien races, so technically, this is a sci-fi series, not fantasy.
The Gor books have a bad rep for being horribly sexist, and many of them are.
However, the entire series doesn't deserve to be slammed with that label, and some of the books are quite good heroic fantasy.Tarnsman of Gor is the first one in the series and has very little in it about slavery, certainly no more than is mentioned in other Sword & Planet novels.
This book gets Tarl Cabot transported to Gor, the Counter-Earth, which rotates around the sun exactly opposite of Earth and is therefore never detected by us.
This is a good Sword & Planet novel with a fresh take on the genre.Not overtly sexist.
then will replace this writeup at Goodreads with one big essay that covers them all; but for now I'm leaving notes on each individual book's page as I finish each novel, both to help myself remember the details and so they'll count towards my 2016 Goodreads Reading Challenge.I've been told that the crazy weirdo S&M stuff (the specific thing people get so obsessed by with this series) doesn't really kick in seriously until book 7 or 8, and this very first book of the series so far reflects that; written in 1966, right when the feminist women's movement was starting to kick into high gear, this is essentially a critical response by Norman (in reality Dr. John Lange, an English professor at Queens College in New York) to everything that movement stood for, told through the filter of a pretty obvious Edgar Rice Burroughs "Barsoom" ripoff.
Best not thought of, because that's icky.It's an undercurrent that I found kind of ugly, but may not have considered or noticed without knowing the unpleasant reputation of the later series.There's one passage where Talena, Cabot's future love interest, is actually contemptuous of him because he did not, in fact, rape her when he first captured her, as would any typical warrior of Gor. It was the same twisted thought processes that turned me off of Ardor on Aros, and is, I think, this setting and Norman in a nutshell.
You can say this is the trope of the genre but it's so clearly Barsoom that I felt like I was watching an The Asylum version of 'Pacific Rim'...Atlantic Rim. There is nothing really new and creative about this world, it's obviously all been done before in the Barsoom series and that's much better written.Story: The story is here is a direct copy of 'A Princess of Mars', our hero is transported to a new world, given new powers, saves a princess who doesn't get along with him in the beginning, they are separated, hero changes the pre-existing sociopolitical system of the world, the princess loves him, he gets transported back to Earth, he hopes to see the princess again one day.
Norman has done a good job capturing the nuance of people's interactions and does well showing how two people who hate each other (or are at least frustrated) can slowly fall in love.Norman's issues when it comes to stories are aspects of the world of Gor. Here you have a world filled with high technology (except for weapons) yet the population lives in a state of barbarianism for the most part.
(even going as far as saying my parents were 'Gorians') In the end, I can only say that you should ignore the fandom that obsesses over this series of books and enjoy them for what they are, a well written high fantasy tale.
Yes I read all of the Gor books as they came out, back when I was a teenager.
I really liked this first one, having already read quite a bit of Edgar Rice Burroughs, and found the plot similar.
The first Gor books were pretty interesting for me, especially the political landscape that the author developed.
I guess I just looked at it like another alien culture.But later on, the series deteriorated significantly, the author choosing to devote more and more pages to his sexual philosophy and less to the action of the story and the world.
Tarnsman of Gor was the first in the Gor series.
It's been so long since I read these books.
They're sexist and a bit silly, especially in later books.
The first book, despite the Frank Frazetta cover, was not really about slavery, etc.
It was a good sword and sandal story told through the eyes of Tarl Cabbot.
I had just started getting into the DC's multi-verse and was fascinated by stories about alt.
The adventures take place there.I'm not really interested in re-reading the series.
This is Gor if you can't handle it, stay on Earth and keep your Prozac filled. JN is a philosophy PhD who combines many themes; many of which people rail against.I say try to be as tolerant of others' views as you demand they be of yours. This is the first in the series less controversial than later entries, sort of a Gor for dummies.
Also because I read the first seven of these books about 30 years ago.
I am just now reaching the point where I have no idea what comes next.Thirty years ago my reading appetite was quite a bit less complex and I really enjoyed these books.
Of course that's not true, but that is what a good book does, it suspends rational thought for a while and makes you want to make it real.Norman's writing style is very free and casual.
If you read it for what it is, a comic book that is sometimes surprisingly thoughtful and philosophical, then you will enjoy it.
Tarl Cabot gets to Gor, Counter-Earth, almost as simply (and acceptably) as John Carter does in A Princess of Mars, though Norman does make vague mention of a space ship.The social system prevailing on Gor includes the Initiates, who are practitioners of superstition in the cities.
Impaling is one of the more common punishments practised on Gor. Tarl Cabot is given the mission of stealing the home stone of the city of Ar.Naturally he gets in with a high-born maiden who scorns him but then at the end pledges herself--she is the daughter of the Ubar of the city of Ar.A satisfying tale, setting the reader up for some clever embellishments of the theme over a number of volumes.The Kindle edition is great, marvellously formatted--though I would have liked, say, a cover picture of 'Tarl of Bristol' on a tarn.
I read these back in the 70's when they first came out. It's kind of a cool world & story in many respects but women are kept as chained & collared slaves. I tried to read past that, but even as a teen it was too much of a turn-off for me to really get into the series. I read the first 4 books & maybe one later one some years after.Norman's writing wasn't terribly impressive, more like Lyn Carter than Robert E. Howard, as I recall.
This was an entertaining story, very kinky and creative but...unfocused. A lot of times it felt like things were just being thrown in to have stuff happen when that time could have been better spent developing the characters. Why does he fall in love with her(she's terrible)? Did he ever mention his world to the people of Gor? And so on.The epilogue is also sad. All that...for that? I mean it probably feeds into sequels but damn. All that said I'll be looking into the other Gor books but I'm not exactly rushing out.
The reputation of the John Norman Gor books, as put by The Encyclopedia of Fantasy: "extremely sexist, sadomasochistic pornography involving the ritual humiliation of women." Pretty serious stuff.This reputation, however, derives from the "later volumes." Tarnsman of Gor is the very first novel in the series, published in 1966.The series -- so far -- consists of 33 books.
One of the unfortunate aspects of the novel, to my way of thinking, is Cabot's distaste for the Priest-Kings, who substitute for Earth's religions.
It is only about 200 pages, so I think I can make it a quick read.I do not expect a great deal of fantasy reading from this book.
Even though it is below par compared to modern standard (which has been set pretty high by writers like George R.R. Martin), I think it is quite decent, even at some points can be quite boring.The world building is quite OK, a "C".
Boring.I want to give it a ONE star actually, but since it is published in 1967, I think I can give it a benefit of doubt by giving an extra star.End note:I am quite surprise while checking Goodreads review on this book.
Поредната фентъзи поредица, от която на български е излязла само първата книга. Добро фентъзи, с потенциал, ама... шанс.
