https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3322106-to-hold-the-crown
It reads: "As Henry’s claim to the throne was tenuous, his marriage to Elizabeth of York, daughter and direct heir of King Edward IV, not only served to unify the warring houses, it also helped Henry secure the throne for himself and for generations to come.
It seemed from this narrative that Henry was happy as long as Elizabeth didn't ever challenge any of his thinking, didn't get in his way or didn't take up any of his time.
In introducing all the main characters (with all the POV movement) we understand only one thing: that Henry Tudor's claim to the throne is tenuous at best.
He only thinks of what would be best for Henry Tudor, and hence pardons Lambert Simnel.
Considering that the title of the book is ‘To Hold the Crown: The Story of King Henry VII and Elizabeth of York', there is precious little of Elizabeth.
At this rate, I wonder why the author did not have little Henry murdering his father and brother and just become king himself.
Not only does he talk sex constantly to his three year old charge, he keeps telling him how things would be nicer if Henry were king!
You have to wonder sometimes what is going through the publisher’s heads – the marriage of Henry VII and Elizabeth of York was not a love match by any means – why they would try to label it as such??
Originally published as Uneasy Lies the Head, this book covers the reign of Henry VII following the defeat of Richard III at the Battle of Bosworth.
The book takes the reader from the beginning of Henry’s reign until the end and at his death and the assumption to the throne of his son Henry VIII.
According to the plot synopsis on the back of the cover, this book was supposed to be the story of the great romance between Henry VII and Elizabeth of York.
Well, the story barely touched on Elizabeth of York and when she did actually appear in the progression of the novel, I think she was treated as nothing more than breeding stock.
Two, throughout the whole story, the author insinuates that Henry VII killed the two princes in the Tower and not their uncle, Richard III.
Prima boek als je graag eens wil weten hoe dat nou zat met de vader van Hendrik de 8e.
Nu is het natuurlijk zo dat mensen inderdaad zo hun hang ups hebben en heel vaak dezelfde gedachten hebben, maar in dit geval is het geen literair stijlelement om de psychologie van de personages beter tot hun recht te doen komen.Kortom in ca 290 pagina's weet je meer, maar is er bij mij niet direct de behoefte om het volgende boek, Katharine, the virgin widow ook te gaan lezen hoewel de eerste bladzijden die ik inkeek wel een andere "toon" hebben.
Read for Tudor History Lovers Group Read ~ July/August 2010I liked this book but I didn't love it.
I enjoyed reading about Henry VII but, while I was really looking forward to reading about Elizabeth of York, I feel like I still know nothing about who she was.
it's supposed to be a book about the love story between her and Henry and she's barely in it.
As a starting novel for the Tudor series by Plaidy, I really liked it.
Unless I have even less of a grasp than I thought and just don't know enough to spot inaccuracies.
Looking for something on Elizabeth of York and finding such novels in short supply, I attempted Plaidy again with the hope that this more recent novel would see improvements in her writing.
Much to my dismay, Elizabeth is not even a major character in the book.Once again, I encountered repetitive, condescending writing, which only improved in her section on Perkin Warbek.
Prince Henry is written as a throne hungry egotist, which seems accurate except she started writing him that way at 3 years old!I did enjoy Plaidy's take on the Princes in the Tower, Lambert Simnel, and Perkin Warbek.
I soo wanted to like this book, but it was just so poorly written and such a stretch from the truth that I couldn't get into it.
I finished it because I have a good streak going of actually reading the group read selections from the Tudor group, but otherwise probably would have been tempted to throw this into the fire this past Labor Day weekend.
The cover advertises this as a spectacular blend between history, romance and drama.
Considering the ranking I gave this book, perhaps I've said enough already :)
Even though it was another fictionalized account of Henry VII & Elizabeth of York, I was eager to read about the events from a different view.
In contrast with The King’s Daughter, a book that grabbed me and pulled me in, To Hold the Crown just seemed to gloss over the characters & events of the book.
Elizabeth of York hardly played a part in this book.
Unfortunately, I don’t think that To Hold the Crown really portrayed a deep love.
To Hold the Crown read more as a non-fiction book with some fiction thrown in.
I enjoyed this book although I thought in places it was a little slow.
I found that this book read a little more like a factual book in places rather than being a work of fiction.
This made the placing quite slow and this book is over 400 pages which I thought was a little too long as not a lot happened in the book despite it taking places over a number of years.I will continue to read more in this series as the next books will follow the reign of Henry 8th which is my favourite topic to read.
Written as though for YA. Juvenile at best. Gives us a historical POV, but other than that...very disappointing...unless I'm 12 and very impressionable.
Rather than romance Plaidy’s novel is more concerned with the rebellions that plagued Henry’s reign, his own paranoia and his son Henry’s ambitions to the crown.Although not what the book promised the subject matter should still be engaging for anyone interested in the period.
Moreover Plaidy’s characters are so one dimensional it is hard to believe any of them were truly like the caricatures she presents here.While Plaidy may have been aiming for a pro-Ricardian novel, judging by the fact that (view spoiler)[his innocence of the murder of the Princes is frequently brought up and Henry VII is eventually revealed as the one who ordered their deaths.
The man who defeated Richard III at Bosworth, united the Lancaster and York Houses and spent his ruling years getting rid of potential rivals to the throne.In the aftermath of the bloody Wars of the Roses, Henry Tudor has seized the English crown, finally uniting the warring Houses of York and Lancaster through his marriage to Elizabeth of York.
Henry VII acceptance as a king was a in part due to his marriage to Elizabeth of York and it was a bit odd seeing her so dependent of him when she must have been an important part of the day's politics.But mostly the book is about Henry's political moves to guarantee his power, to prevent rebellions by York claimants.
He feels more secure when his son Arthur marries Katherine of Aragon, the young Spanish Princess but disaster is waiting just around the corner.This book was a good background to the early life of Prince Arthur, the first husband of Katharine of Aragon, and his petulant brother who would become King Henry VIII, and their sisters Mary and Margaret.
His desire for marrying Katherine does not end even when his father decides to break the betrothal and you can see the early seeds of the tyrant showing through in young Henry.It is the first book I have read about Henry VII and I'll be interested to read more about him and The War of the Roses itself.
I'm clearly in the minority, but I didn't enjoy this novel. There isn't a main character, so it lacks a true story arc. I also was not aware of the Great Comma Shortage of the early 1980s until I read To Hold the Crown. I had to re-read many sentences to figure out their meaning without the necessary commas.
This is the start of the Tudor Saga, so it focuses on Henry VII, who claimed the crown when he defeated Richard III at the battle of Bosworth.
One wonders why if that was the case he felt the need to place his nephews (the rightful heirs) in the tower in the first place.Henry VII actually married their sister - so he obviously didn't feel the same way, but did he do away with the princes?
If Richard III had put them in the tower and claimed them illegitimate he wouldn't have needed to kill them.
“To Hold the Crown” is a later book, published after the last novel in her Plantagenet saga.Like with the Plantagenet saga, the author's attempts to pack several years’ worth of history into one volume results in a serious rush job.
Many times in this book the reader is told what happened in a few sentences, when the author could’ve dramatized scenes to show what happened.Something else Plaidy’s guilty of is her continuous use of the passive voice.
Maybe Jean Plaidy was squeamish when it comes to describing men hacking each other to death, I don’t know, but why build up to the battle only to not bother dramatizing it?
It reads right on the cover 'The Story of King Henry Vii and Elizabeth of York' but I feel as though this story was about everyone but them.
I can only recall only three or four scenes that she was even a part of.
I give this book three stars because I do think that what Jean Plaidy has written here is something to be proud of.
We hear more from the King of Scotland and little Prince Henry and his desire to outrank his brother than we do about Henry Vii and Elizabeth.
The blurb says the marriage of Henry VII and his wife was a love story, but I did not get that impression.
This book takes us from his kingship to the beginning of Henry VIII reign.
Having read this book immediately after the previous in the series, one gets fairly depressed at the plight of royal women, whose main duty is to turn out as many children, with, of course, the emphasis on boys, as possible.
Not sure what love has to do with it...But, I did think the author went a little far in looking into young Henry VIII's mind.
I enjoyed the book as I always do when it is written by Jean Plaidy.
However, I understood the book to be about Henry VII and Elizabeth of York.
Instead it really focused on Henry VII and his life and his constant insecurities during his reign.
It never delved into his relationship with Elizabeth and just made her appear to be a robot wife - always agreeing with Henry and never having thoughts, feelings or opinions of her own.
Jean Plaidy rarely does this in her novels and usually gives great thought and personality to all that she writes about.
I thought this was a great book.
Once I got started it was hard to put down.
I thought these characters and plot were very well written.
This is a pretty historically accurate book.
I liked how it followed Henry VII and Elizabeth of York.
Then it followed Henry, Arthur, and Katherine.
The only thing I have to say is that if the reader does not know about Henry VII and the beginning of the Tudor era then it might be hard to keep up with names and events.
This is a very detailed book.
I can not wait to read the next book.
Another steady entry in the Plaidy canon, this is the first of the Tudor series.Richard III has died on Bosworth Field and Henry Tudor has been crowned as Henry VII.
To end the feud between Lancastrians & Yorkists and give England the peace he believes it needs he takes Elizabeth of York, the eldest daughter of Edward IV, as his wife.
In doing so he affirms her legitimacy and if she is legitimate, so are/were her two brothers, Edward & Richard, and if they are alive then they are the legitimate heirs to the throne.Henry must reign in the shadow of their unknown fate...
This book suffered from several problems. Firstly, the plot was completely uninteresting. Secondly, the characters were completely uninteresting. Thirdly, the summary of the book given on the back cover does not describe anything that happens in the book. That right there immediately sets you up for disappointment. I've enjoyed other of Jean Plaidy's novels but this one can easily be skipped, unless you enjoy reading dry historical fiction written at a bland an elementary level.
History comes a live.Dry facts of who was king from one date to t h e next, or the name of his queen can be dull. Jean Plaidy makes history come a live, even if most of it is with a writer's interpretation. Henry VII and Elizabeth may have been royalty, but they were also human and Plaidy allows the reader to glimpse that.
Enjoyable and educational - though I might have liked the focus to stay on Henry VII throughout. Towards the end Plaidy strays into overlap with her other novels on the princesses. The point of view just seems too unsteady. Because of this I liked the first half more than the second.
This was captivating! Really enjoyed reading this book
An easy read, perhaps too easy, a bit “Janet and John”. She seems to have researched the history, but added some artistic licence in interpretation.
A plodding run through the reign of Henry VII, if only this was a true account! I would love to think Henry was behind the murders of the Princes in he Tower!
3.5*
