https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/265008.The_Figure_in_the_Shadows
The Figure in the Shadows is just as good, and for many of the same reasons.
There's a good level of scary, the characters come across as real, with their own quirks and difficulties.
The addition of Rose Rita to Lewis' circle of friends is brilliant.
You might think they'd be badly dated, but with a diverse cast of empowered characters, I think they read very well today.Important to me, both the magic and real world difficulties that Lewis faces are handled in a way that admits that real world problems with a bully can be just as frightening as dark magic!
John Bellairs' series featuring the adventures of young Lewis Barnavelt and his friend Rose Rita is a surprisingly gray and realistic offering, despite the magic and tenderness.
it can have magic that is threatening and that is less of a toy and more of window into a terrible world that kids should never go through.
this is a series that features addiction and self-loathing, the waning of power and the waxing of evil with age, shadowy figures of great menace, small journeys that can change a life, and yet that life goes on as normal...
I remember that it was the second in a series, and once I found the first in the series (The Clock in the Walls) and read it, but the first book didn't stick in my memory as much as this one did.I ordered a copy of it online, once I remembered the title, and recently re-read it to see if it was still as good as I remembered, and moreover, to figure out what it was about it that I liked.The main character is a chubby, nerdy 11-year-old orphan named Lewis, who lives with his uncle Jonathan, who happens to be a wizard.
7 de 10*“O Mistério do Talismã Mágico” dá continuidade à história de Lewis Barnavelt, Jonathan e a Sra. Zimmerman que já conhecemos no primeiro livro, “O Mistério da Casa do Relógio”.
Na minha opinião faz todo o sentido ler os dois livros em sequência, mas este livro tem referências suficientes à história passada para ser compreendido isolado.Lewis, o menino que perdeu os pais e foi viver com um tio muito especial, feiticeiro, segue a sua vida normal, de estudante, em busca do seu lugar na escola.
Mas Lewis é um pouco gordinho e por isso não só não consegue fazer amigos como é gozado e provocado constantemente.Comentário completo em:https://abibliotecadajoao.blogspot.co...
My favorite kiddie/YA book, probably one of my favorite books period.Louis Barnavelt lives in 1950's suburban Michigan with his uncle, who is a practicing warlock.
As a kid, I wanted to move in with Louis and his uncle (I probably still do).
The discovery of a Civil-War era good luck charm in an old family trunk helps Louis with his problems for a while, but eventually the charm makes its own demands on Louis and his loved ones.There's a lot of mid-century Americana in this book, which whether real or invented gives the story some real flavor.
This is a fine follow-up to The House With a Clock in Its Walls, and at least as good. Tomboy Rose Rita is a delightful addition to the cast of characters.
This was a great second effort from Bellairs, following the stories of Lewis and Rose Rita through yet another story. As mentioned in other reviews, I think I would have enjoyed the illustrations more if edward Gorey had done them, like he did in the first book. Otherwise, while Mercer Mayer is great, (he illustrated so many of my favorite books, INCLUDING the Great Brain series) he's just not as dark and gothic as Gorey.
Classificação: 3,5 em 5 ⭐ Achei impossível conseguir dar melhor classificação ao segundo livro do que ao primeiro. Ao contrário do livro “O Mistério da Casa do Relógio” neste não senti problema algum com o facto de não ser o meu género. Talvez por ter lido os dois de seguida, ou mais provavelmente porque finalmente conseguir gostar da personagem principal.Neste segundo livro conseguimos ver que a personagem tornou-se mais madura, o facto disso ter alterado de um livro para o outro foi mais um in
Ao contrário do livro “O Mistério da Casa do Relógio” neste não senti problema algum com o facto de não ser o meu género.
Talvez por ter lido os dois de seguida, ou mais provavelmente porque finalmente conseguir gostar da personagem principal.Neste segundo livro conseguimos ver que a personagem tornou-se mais madura, o facto disso ter alterado de um livro para o outro foi mais um incentivo para continuar a ler.
Li-o rápido, mas novamente quis ler devagar para apreciar.Houveram muitos momentos aborrecidos, foi isso que influenciou a não dar exatamente 4 estrelas.
I love Lewis and his struggles in dealing with bullies and his insecurities and how he works so hard to overcome these in all the wrong ways.
Then he tried sit-ups, but when he lay down flat on his back, he couldn't struggle up to a sitting position unless he thrashed around and used his elbows.
He stood up and tried to touch his toes without bending his knees, but he couldn't do it.
So he gave up and went downstairs to eat breakfast." Yep. I can touch my toes but other than that, I totally identify with Lewis...
Episode 2 in the series about a misfit orphan who moves in with his Uncle Jonathan who just happens to be a wizard with a witch for a neighbor.I love Lewis, a fat kid who has trouble with bullies and his best friend Rose Rita, a tomboy who's tough enough for ten kids. In this story, Lewis finds a magic talisman which leads him down a dark path and his friends have to come to the rescue. Thank goodness for YA favorites from childhood. I reread these to escape from our current reality which is dark and depressing. Highly recommended.
In a way, these books are amulets of a sort: they bring the very powerful voice of John Bellairs back from the grave to enable, energize, and strengthen the individualistic muscle in every kid--to fight back against bullies and to accept who they are and how they look.
He would like to warn kids against taking on more "magic" or adult decisions until they are older, but knows he can't stop them if they try.
That is the adult teaching the child reader, and guiding him/her to better decision-making.
Wish Bellairs could have stuck around: his wonderful imagination seems to get through to kids using humor and fear, warmth and generosity.
I was a little sad that this book isn't illustrated by Edward Gorey like The House with a Clock in Its Walls was.
I liked this book a little less than The House with a Clock in Its Walls, maybe in part because it feels like some of the quirkiness and whimsy of that book is missing, maybe because part of what was appealing to me in that book was that it was mostly about a kid spending his time with the grown-ups in his life, whereas this book has less of that and more of Lewis-at-school and Lewis-with-Rose-Rita.
Como ya sabéis, estos son libros muy cortitos y bastante infantiles, pero yo adoro este tipo de libros y como el primero me gustó...
Este me ha gustado mucho también, pero le veo el mismo fallo que el primero, no se centra en el tema principal hasta estar bastante más de la mitad del libro.
La trama me gusta muchísimo, pero veo que no explica mucho del tema principal hasta el final...
Es entretenido y lo he disfrutado mucho, pero el final es muy precipitado (esto es algo que también ocurre en el primero).
¿Vosotros sois de leer estos tipos de libros?
I feel like Bellairs doesn't give enough depth of detail - historical, magical (even if you just make it up, let it feel well-developed), characters. Mercer Mayer's illustrations seemed too 1970s for me. I just don't buy Uncle Jonathan looking like a shaggy hippie.
I can’t believe I read this scary stuff in elementary school! Very legitimate horror. (For kids. Delightful still to this grownup.)
Out of the first three Lewis Barnavelt stories this might be the weakest, although it's still interesting, and it carries maybe the most character development for Lewis himself.
I don't remember having a problem with this as a child, but the adult characters aren't really characters as much as they are part of the setting, not fully developed with personalities and mostly out of the way when they need to be.
There are descriptions of places, and people, and ways of doing things that feel different from where I grew up, and I appreciate these stories as a bit of a window into that time and place.
I'm still enjoying this series, though this one wasn't as interesting as the first in the series.There also was a moment that was so relatable. Who would have thought I, a 25 year old, would relate so clearly with an 11 year old.
In the first book, the main character's parents die and he comes to live with his lively, caring, magic-wielding uncle and his "friend" who also happens to be a powerful witch.
His relationship with his new guardians and the exploration of the house and the town are the backbone of the story, and it works.
The biggest flaw of this book is that Lewis lives in a house of magic and doesn't tell his magic guardians about magic problems.
The second book about Lewis Barnavelt is still fun and cool.
The entrance of Rose Rita as Lewis' only friend is nice and their friendship is fun to read.
Mercer Mayer's pictures are cool, but overall just had me wondering how Edward Gorey would have illustrated this book.
Bellairs' peculiar, Gorey-esque writing in House was, for me, one of it's most charming aspects.
In Figure, Bellairs seemed to move into a more conventional writing style.
Course, the story itself had less of the magical wonder of House and more 'real life' situations - school bullies, friendships, etc.
Overall it was good, eerie fun.
Bellairs does a great job of creating a really creepy story that doesn't use cliches and doesn't pander to its audience by needing to tie up every loose end and resolve every conflict. His characters are real people and respond realistically to their fantastic situations. And yet his books are not so scary that they become inappropriate for their age level. I like that this story in particular spent most of the time with Lewis and how the amulet affected him, building the tension until bringing everything to an exciting and fascinating conclusion.
When I read this as a kid, I found it deliciously creepy. I finished reading it with my nine-year-old son and still found it a little creepy in places. I asked my son just before leaving him for the night in his dark basement room if he thought it was a scary book. "No." His answer was completely unconcerned. He asked me to get another in the series for him to read on his own.
I still love how well he wove real places and products into his narrative like DeKalb corn and Wildroot Cream Oil. The setting for the story is created well, but doesn't go into as much depth as the first book.
I feel it is very important to read the first Barnavelt story to really appreciate this new adventure as intended.This book doesn't feel as trepidatious as the first in many ways.
Although Mercer Mayer is a very accomplished illustrator, I feel his 'Little Critters' art style detracted somewhat from the atmosphere Mr. Bellairs' sought to create.
On the other hand, the hero of this "Figure in the Shadows", and a total of twelve books in the series, is Lewis Barnavelt.
His gal pal, Rose Rita, is all nerve and vinegar, and is loyal and understanding, so the two of them together make an interesting and often unexpectedly touching team.(It is perhaps not a surprise that Bellairs wrote three Barnavelt books, then paused to write eight Dixon novels.
To me, the most interesting aspect of the Barnavelt novels is the fashion in which Bellairs blends the prosaic and the magical.
The plot of this installment revolves around an amulet which Lewis acquires and which seems to hold a 'spirit' of some kind which he has awakened and which turns out to be rather malevolent.
I will say that Lewis is a unique character in that he's not brave, overly intelligent (although a voracious reader), good looking, talented (described as quite fat), or particularly good-natured (in fact he's rather whiny and prone to childish fits of anger).
He doesn't fit the prescribed parameters of a typical protagonist.
(I was nervous about the latter through my adolescence as well so in that regard I can relate.) Magic + mystery + misadventure = the plot 5/10
However, now knowing part of the story, the characters, the writing style of Mr. Bellairs, and understanding this was written for children in the 1970's (view it this way, movies from the 70's vs.
I rarely read a whole book in just a day, even if it's short, which these are, but I read this in just one afternoon (as I did with the first one).The one true complaint I have is that Mr. Bellairs writes Lewis taking the Lord's name in vain, and more than once (in one scene).
This is an issue...to write a children's book, and have a child take the Lord's name in vain.
I immediately dived into this book after finishing the first book because I wanted to continue Lewis's journey.In the Figure in the Shadows, Lewis find himself in possession of a magical amulet or coin, but along it came a mysterious being.
The synopsis gives away as to what the book would be about, but the author was able to add a plot twist I did not see coming.
The author created a mystery of the identify of the figure in the shadows and unraveled it near the end.My rating: 2.5/5
This is a horror story for older elementary kids & above.
Illustrated by Mercer Mayer.
It was fun to see him illustrate something besides a "Little Critter" book!
You could read this story as a stand alone.
Lewis is still having trouble with bullies.
After an excavation into Grandpa Barnavelt's old trunk, he finds a "good luck" piece.
This is a totally innocent piece until he says a magic spell over it & activates a malevolent spirit.
This story continues the creepy, scary feelings of book 1.
Lewis is in mortal danger & only his friend can save him.
I totally recommend!
"The Figure in the Shadows" is not as strong as the first book in the Lewis Barnavelt series- the drop-off is a little steep.
But that's not because this book is bad, it's because "The House With a Clock in Its Walls" is nearly flawless as a mix of young adult whimsy and the gothic.
At times, this feels more like a first run at a Johnny Dixon novel than a more magic-based Barnavelt story.
Nonetheless, even lesser Bellairs/Strickland is good Bellairs/Strickland; the series will get better again (mostly with Strickland at the helm, as Bellairs seemed more invested in Johnny Dixon after this point).
The adventure really picks up at the end. You really need to read the last 3 pages to explain why everything happened. It doesn’t tie into the first book at all besides the main characters being in this one too. I felt like there was a little bit of lazy writing, but maybe it was to keep it short for a middle grade read. It was another story that would be fun to summarize and share over a campfire. 👻
Lewis takes possession of his grandfather's lucky charm from the Civil War. Lewis is the only one that believes it is enchanted, but as the story progresses, it turns out things are more complicated than that. The sleepy town of New Zebedee has another dark secret in its past. Lewis gets a true friend and companion, Rose Rita, and a bully gets the thrashing he deserves.
