https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40175.Annapurna
The real life story of the French Alpine Society and the advent of the highest mountain peak in Napal, the Annapurna.This book is quite long and intense.
It was a thoroughly planned and supplied group.They began their journey with time enough to sumit a mountain nearby Annapurna, but it's vertical ice walls and relative inaccessibility caused a change from the initial mountain, to a longer trek to Annapurna.
This mountain was slightly higher by matters and included out of date maps and a much longer trek to reach.There was also, at the time another mountaineering party preparing to climb Everest.
The writer or the translator described the events in this book in a way that made it not worth my time. I was astoundingly impressed with what was accomplished considering the technology they had, while smoking, but found myself scanning through pages that left a lot to be desired.
Well written but pretty self-aggrandizing account of the 1st summit of 8,000 m peak.On the one hand it's cool to read about how they did things 60 years ago - starting with finding the actual mountain!
Since no 8,000 m peak had ever been climbed (this was 3 yrs before Hillary/Tenzing on Everest) nothing was a given including what face to assault and how to actually get there in the first place!Later learned Herzog forced all other members of his party to sign Non Disclosure Agreements (legal waivers that prohibited them from writing personal accounts of the climb) - thus making his account the ONLY one out there.
The narrative suffered for it, unless you are really into rudimentary logistics as a hobby- its important that’s its there, it shows the scale of their feat, patience, and tenacity, but it’s a bit tiresome to read.Their successful summit was miraculous, and would not be repeated again for many years.
Even today, in the face of the growing commercialism of Everest, Annapurna remains one of the deadliest mountains, having only been summited around 200 times.
Still, it is this section, and the sections pertaining to the gangrene and amputations to follow that are must reads for all would-be climbers.
This was one of the first adult books I read as a child about 60 yrs ago. I still remember how much I loved it. I have recommended it to a couple of my grandchildren as a reminder that there will be many challenges in life, most conquerable with determination.
I love mountaineering and this is the king of mountaineering books.
The story of the first 8000 meter mountain to be climbed.
Yet, Annapurna still remains the most difficult mountain on Earth to climb.
Maurice Herzog's team of French mountaineers suffered greatly for claiming Annapurna's summit, but in the end all I could say is, "They just don't build men like they used to." This crew of post-colonialism adventurers bit off more than they could handled, but still managed to swallow while choking.
A must read for anyone even if you have no interest in mountaineering.
To me it is absolute madness to push on regardless of common sense, knowing that if you somehow do survive, frostbite and the loss of fingers, toes or worse will render you less able to climb again in the future, let alone anything else!One thing I found strange about the translation, as I suspect that is where it occurred, is the constant changing of units of measure.
given the year, most had not metricated by this time.
This book gives account of 1950 French expedition to Annapurna, where they have to actually locate the mountain first before climbing it.
While all these are fine and dandy, what is NOT okay is to force, yes, literally force the villagers to work as porters, take the load of the expedition and even carry the injured members of the expeditions.
What was it to the unsuspecting labor working in a paddy field who were forced to act as coolies that these white men lost their toes trying to summit a 8000 meter mountain?
What good is an expedition, if it has to be carried, literally, by slave labor?
Even if your interest is more about Nepal more than the climbing, I'd recommend this book.
It provides a pretty rare look into the Nepal of 1950, that is to say the Nepal that was not yet open to the world.
These climbers set out to climb the 8000 meter peak Dhaulagiri (and ended up on Annapurna I) without so much as a good map to show them how to get there.
This book is as good a way as any to get a look.
A large part of me finds it hard to believe such adventures are called a success when the only reason many of the French climbing team is alive is because Sherpas literally carried them down the mountain and then all the way to India (while the white men's digits were literally rotting off).
I know they weren't thinking straight - and they knew that as well - but shouldn't such experienced mountaineers realize that living to climb another day is smarter than endangering so many people to be the first at something?
The climbing from one camp to another, setting up a camp, going out for reconnaissance, finding routes, looking for possibilities, all sounded highly inspiring and motivating to a climber like me.
Calling them coolies and forcing tasks over them is certainly not what a mountaineer does!A few extracts from the book:“Looking all about me, I felt an exhilarating sense of domination, and complete confidence in our victory.”“I was delighted to be able to tell them that Annapurna was practically in the bag!” Coming to the story, according to the hazardous situation explained about Camp V, I think it was pointless to carry on the expedition beyond that.
I mean that is obvious.It is a very well written book and an in-depth account of how, in 1950, Maurice Herzog led the expedition and reached the top of Annapurna, with Louis Lachenal.
(This is a review of a translated book, so am not sure if it was the translator, or Maurice himself, in the original french version, who was not able to capture these emotions throughout the book before the summit was bagged)A very good book I would say and a must read for all mountaineers.
At long last I've read the "granddaddy" of mountaineering first-person accounts, and it is still a nerve-wracking adventure story more than sixty years later.
From being "lost" between two of the iconic 14 peaks of the Himalaya with totally mistaken maps, to the intuitions and skills that would plot a route, to the supreme efforts to haul supplies, to the beauty and glory of the summit achievement, to the excruciating details of the descent and retreat from the mountains, this book has it all.
Next on my list is reading David Robert's take on the controversies, but Herzog's book will always remain a classic for me.
Annapurna is subtitled First Conquest of an 8000-Meter Peak and is the account of the 1950 French Himalayan Expedition. The first two-thirds of the book alternated between interesting information and slow going as the expedition was organized and arrived at the base camp. But the final third of the book was so gripping that I read it at one sitting.
Terrific explicit details about expert mountaineering, from preparation and acclimation to handholds and set ropes. The interior monologue of the summiting experience rivals Beryl Markham at her best.
Each spring break when I trek in Nepal, I pick up a book about the Himalayas, and this year's addition did not disappoint. Three years before Everest was climbed, in 1950 a French expedition successfully climbed an 8,000+ meter peak for the first time. The remarkable part of the story isn't the ascent but rather the descent as Herzog and his team were supported down from Annapurna after a first ascent which would change all of their lives and rewrite what was considered possible in the world's highest mountain range.
A good read but definitely the “official” account. The trek down the mountain and the medical care (such as it was) was brutal. Herzog never seems to take responsibility for his role in how the expedition turned out.
Good story but definitely feels like the “state” sponsored version. And it’s crazy how much high altitude climbing has changed since this book.
I had to re-read it yet again following David Robert's "True Summit" to see if my younger selves missed something obvious. They did not. The book is still great. Possibly the greatest.
Already suffering from cold feet, Herzog and Lachenal decide to make a summit bid.What follows is a shocking tale of frostbite, open air biovack, snow blindness, getting lost, avalanches, horrific medical procedures that I don't even want to THINK about ie arterial and groin injections that had men screaming in agony and amputations without painkillers, and then the long trek back to get help in dreadful weather and life endangering conditions.
*shudder*When you read about these early expeditions where they have to trek to the mountains, you actually wonder how any of them had the strength to climb when they got there.
The conquest of Annapurna, while shadowed by that of the Everest, doesn't command much lower respect, given the harsh treatment meted out to the heroic mountaineers.Starting from the immaculate arrangements of a large scale expedition, to the strategic moves of exploration within a given time limit, the book initially talks only about how Maurice and his gang slowly discovered and decided the routes and plans.
But when one thinks about what would have crossed their minds, you only feel great respect for them.No doubt, this is one of Himalaya's tragic adventures.
Anyway.Annapurna is a fantastic account by Herzog of the first 8000m mountain climbed, perfectly encapsulating the experience of high altitude climbing and the mindset of those who do.
It starts off a little dry and boring as they plan and wander through the foothills though having spent a fair time in Nepal, particularly around the Annapurna region, and particularly at altitude (only 6000m for me) I felt much more of a connection.
As his partner tags the top and heads straight back down, Herzog gets lost for a moment in the overwhelming emotion as he stood there, the highest man on earth at the time.
Herzog's recount of his ordeal in Nepal is remarkable for being a first-hand account of an amazing adventure that he and his party barely survived, but I found it lacking somehow.
I'm not sure if it was missing the dramatic tension I expected, or perhaps the level of emotion Herzog had to have been experiencing wasn't relayed to the extent expected...
I'm not quite sure.
I was glad I read it, and it was interesting from a historical standpoint, but I'm not sure I'd recommend it over some of the other true-life mountaineering books like Into Thin Air, Annapurna: A Woman's Place, or Touching the Void.
Took about half the book to get into it but then it became interestingI found Annapurna to be a bit of a slog to read for a classic adventure novel.
The main reason for this was because the first half of the novel, involving the logistics and how they got to the base of Annapurna, were somewhat uninteresting for me.
I also intend on reading True Summit: What Really Happened on the Legendary Ascent of Annapurna by David Roberts, which as the titles suggests, might give an interesting alternative to Maurice Herzog's account of the adventure.
BEST MOUNTAINEERING BOOKThe expedition of 8 French people, started to conquer 2 "Eight THousander" - Dhaulagiri and Annapurna.The first half of the book deals with the ridges and reconnaissance in search for the route to summit of DHAULAGIRI.
But at last one ridge is discovered by one party of reconnaissance.Finally 2 out of 8 members - Herzog and Lachenal - make it to summit in worst conditions with their limbs forst-bitten.Finally, ANNPURNA is conquered.
The descent was so horrifying with frost-bitten limbs and lack of proper treatment...ONE WORD DESCRIPTION : Gripping
This is a fabulous book and thrilling read. For some reason I always want to read high altitude mountaineering books in July! Herzog is admirable in many ways, but I can't help but notice the macho arrogance and patriarchy of the men who speak of "conquering" and "attacking" this magnificent natural geleologic wonder with"assaults" on this mountain whose name means"Goddess of the Harvest". They continuously gravelly risked the lives of many many others to bring them down from the mountain after their"triumph". Their arrogance and narcissism is incredible, but I understand it and was riveted by the book.
It took too long to get interesting. I could not visualise the geographical and technical challenges they faced in the beginning so I didn't enjoy reading about them. Also the references to natives as "savages" annoyed me. The coolies and Sherpas did far more work than the rest of them and by the end they were even forcibly recruiting coolies. Herzog and Lachenal would not have survived had it not been for the back breaking work of the coolies but their attitude toward them was so patronising.
As an adventure novel, Annapurna holds up. The pacing is mostly excellent, the descriptions of complex climbing techniques don't bog down the narrative and the dialogue is tense. It falls down when read from a 2016 perspective. The casual racism toward the Sherpas and 'Coolies' is tough to read; Herzog comes off as super paternalistic. Also, the egos at play are funny at times and exhausting at others.
3.5 stars...Slow at the beginning but the ending was good.
Na tym jednak nie koniec, bo tak naprawdę z prawdziwym studium psychiki wspinacza wysokogórskiego mamy do czynienia w momencie zejścia, a że góra dopiero wtedy pokaże swą potęgę i związane z nią okrucieństwo to możemy dowiedzieć się aż nadto jeśli chodzi o motywację Herzoga i jemu podobnych.
"Annapurna" mimo tego, że opisuje wydarzenia z przed ponad pół wieku, bo do pierwszego zdobycia tego szczytu doszło w 1950 roku jest nadal aktualna, kiedy śledzimy kulisy tragedii na Nanga Parbat.
Walka z samym sobą i ludzkimi ograniczeniami w obliczu bezlitosnej, a poprzez to równie pięknej natury, prawdziwy tygiel rozmaitych emocji i dylematów człowieka, który nagle znajduje się w obliczu śmierci to jak się okazuje temat pełny analogizmów kiedy patrzymy na Herzoga i Mackiewicza.
