https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/398128.Mary_Emma_Company
(Read-aloud)We love reading of the adventures of the now beloved-to-us Moody family, narrated by the young Ralph (11yo).
These are excellent read-alouds, all of them (and especially for boys, I think).
Ralph is a hard-working, inventive boy, respectful of authority.
I can't recommend this series enough.Mary Emma (Ralph's mother) comes to the forefront in this book, but the story is still told through Ralph's eyes and in his words.
Some new characters were introduced in this book, too- (our favorite being Uncle Levi ("By hub!")).
We all laugh out loud at Ralph's descriptions and the kids are always asking daddy to read just a little more.
but I knew right from page 41 that the widowed heroine of the story, Mary Emma, would be a kindred spirit.
This is a story about a family who uprooted and moved from Colorado to Massachussets in 1912 and how they industriously made a new life for themselves.
Mary Emma was quote on that page as saying to her children: "Until you are all grown and ready to have homes of your own, I will  not  be separated from you children for a moment longer than is absolutely necessary.
That means that we must find some way of making our living in our own home."Highly recommended.
The author has quite some talent and no mistake! This is some of the most interesting writing I've ever seen. It's even more immersing than many works of fiction. This is quite a feat, by my standards leastways.
This is one of my favorites of series! I love the family industry.
Wow. I actually ended up liking this book a lot better than I thought I would...
(I have never read/listened to them before but I finally convinced my Dad I needed to do at least one of the two XD) This was honestly such a good book.
I loved that he wanted to work and help out his family, especially his Mother!Also I liked at times that other boys knew how do some things Ralph didn't (such as clam fishing) and I think that really added to the story because they had to (try to) teach him.I tell ya, these Moody's have great minds for business ;P I rate Mary Emma & Company 5 stars!
Mary Emma is another literary parent to look up too and inspire to be like! Interesting story for the whole family, about a family that has to pull themselves up by the boot straps and find a way to make a living...and quick. The ideas and businesses they come up with are entertaining and inspiring. I love their dedication, work ethic and how much love they have for each other. The ending put tears in my eyes.
Didn't enjoy quite as much as the last one; less adventures, but still a good story with pretty solid morals. Sadly, although they live what's "right", for Ralph at least, it seems to be not out of conviction but just because it's what his mother requires or because it was the law at that time. (mostly not working on Sunday)
Another solid 4-star book in the Little Britches series. In this book, the Moody family moves to Massachusetts and basically starts over from scratch. I was amazed at the creative ways this family found to support themselves. I was inspired by the way they accepted their situation and worked like all get-out to to solve problems and improve their future.
4.5 stars... Another great book in the Ralph Moody autobiographies. I'm loving this series, and am so impressed with this family!
I have enjoyed each book so far in the “Little Britches” series by Ralph Moody, and this one is no exception.
“Mary Emma & Company” is the heartwarming account of thirteen-year-old, Ralph, his widowed mother, and four younger siblings as they begin their new life in Medford, Massachusetts following their move from Colorado.
Together they struggle to establish a home, find sources of income, and “fit in” in a new community.
This is the story their first six months in Massachusetts and the hard work, perseverance and unity that brought them a closeness and joy despite the many difficulties they encountered.
4* The story of the Moody family continues after the move from Colorado to Boston. How the whole family pulled together to make a living and find a home in their new town is inspiring. Every child had work to do, and they did it with pride and loyalty.
Mary Emma is one of the most admirable mothers of any memoir (or fiction) I’ve ever read. I don’t understand how these books aren’t as well known and widely loved as the Little House series by Laura Ingalls Wilder.
Another heartwarming book following the adventures of the Moody family in the early 1900's. A great family or read-aloud series for all ages, although reading on one's own would probably be suited for ages 9 or so and up.
Love, love, love! If you haven't read the Little Britches books yet, you need to. They have so many things to think about and ponder and examine yourself and who you are and who you want to be. We listened to it on audio book and the narrator is fantastic.
This series is delightful. Ralph is an industrious role model and I love how the family perseveres despite hardship. They don’t sacrifice their morals even when it would be easy.
Mary Emma. Strong, determined and intentional. This book portray's a beautiful picture for us of the author's mother.
I love this series. I think I can just go ahead and buy my own copies now. I will raise my children on these books.
i liked it
The story of Ralph Moody continues, as his family has to do one of the most difficult things to do yet.
i listened to this book on an audio book i liked it
We continue with their life in Medford MA; Ralph just can't get a break and is eventually drummed out of town by the cops.
Each book in this series is just as good as the previous! This is something I rarely see!
I think I liked this one more than Fields of Home and very nearly as much as Man of the Family--largely because the Moodys are once again trying to make a living at odd jobs in a new situation.
In this book, as in Man of the Family, he has to overcome obstacles to provide for the family, and his incredible talent, rather than being superfluous and suspect, is necessary--without it, the family might not have made it.Here, too, Ralph encounters a new kind of injustice, in the form of a school teacher who has it out for him from the first.
I think this is one of the shortest in the series.Ralph's stories have caught my heart.
This family did everything they could to survive and afford food.I just wanted them all to return to Colorado (yay!) instead of staying in Boston, where Ralph just didn't fit in to the big city.
It just fit with how hard the family worked and with Ralph's go-getter personality.
He didn't do it to show off but to take care of his family because he loved them so much.
I think that's why it works in this story, because it's so real.
I feel so lucky to have discovered this series. Reading them to boys is creating memories I will cherish forever.
Mary Emma, widowed in Colorado, shares six children in rooms of brother Frank, wife Hilda, and two toddlers.
Cop Watson strokes his thick white mustache sympathetically, but another fight, though provoked by others, plus an accidental high step into the backside of girl in line, land Ralph in the official black book three times "no livin' way to get it unwrote" p 167.
First day, Ralph lands a job at Mr Haushalter's nearby grocery store, learns to ride bicycle for deliveries.
Gracie makes one for little Philip to label "To Mary Emma From her best lover" p 233.
It reminds me of days on grandpa's ranch and helps me see a little more of what he did there and why he loved it so much.
It's inspiring in this book how Mary Emma (a widow now) is always able to make ends meet following the inspiration of God and with help from her husband, from "the other side".
I love how every one of her 6 kids have a job to do to help the family and they do it at all costs.
I love it and highly recommend the "Little Britches" series to anyone with a trace of farm blood in them.
We are already loving this fourth book in the series by Ralph Moody.
I put off reading the fourth book because I didn't feel Moody had anywhere else to go with his series.
Unfortunately this evening both boys choose to play/wrestle/generally horse around during the getting ready for bed time.
Instead of threaten them with loss of reading time, I simply listened to the wild chaos coming from the bathroom (they both found each other's antics hysterical this evening) waited until bedtime and then asked them to get into bed.
I was happy to see that it would help me reach my non-fiction goal for the year.
I've mentioned it before, but I'll admit once again that I struggle with non-fiction.
When I first started the book, I kept wondering if it was really fiction, because it read like a novel.
This period of Ralph's life was very interesting.
This was in 1912, and life during that time was very interesting to read about.
Ralph worked at a grocery store and his income ($1.50/week) went to help support the family.His family was very close and very strong.
The fifth book in Moody's autobiographical series is the lightest one yet.
I found the parts about Ralph getting his name written down in the "bad boy book" by the police to be interesting, and I wonder how his memory colored that- was there, in fact, such a book, and if so, could it have been so unfair?
There were warm and wonderful passages, of course- but this book could have been twice as long and I would have liked more analysis of their situation and less sledding.
On its own, it would probably be a 4 star book, but as part of the series, I'm knocking it down one by comparison.
