https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104961.Come_As_You_Are
All I know is that I'm all about the 90s nostalgia right now, much like a lot of other people in their early 30s.So with this in mind, I read this biography of Nirvana, and I ended up really enjoying it.
But even so, he didn't really shy away from showing Cobain (and also Chris Novoselic, Courtney Love, Dave Grohl, and all of the other drummers) as complex, flawed, creative people.The other interesting thing is the way the book gave context to a lot of what was going on around the Seattle music scene in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
Yes, I am still obsessed with this band.
“Not only was the music compelling and catchy, it captured the spirit of the age.” This book is thorough; insightful and heartbreaking. I was too young to really appreciate or understand Nirvana in the early 90s. It didn’t help that my older brother blared them constantly and I got SO tired of hearing them all the damned time. I never became a fan. Now, my brother is burning me a CD with his favorite Nirvana songs. How very 90s of him!
Those one-way conversations have seized since finished.I believed, up to this point, that I knew a lot about the life of Kurt Cobain including my bitter hatred for Courtney Love who I relegated to a loud, obnoxious gold digger.
By the time Nirvana had released Nevermind Kurt was in full heroin use and the world was introduced to him in this state.
Too bad Kurt couldn't have held on to that one fact - timing - and lived a genuine, grateful life true to his music and his fans.
He tells a true account of the life of Kurt, the band, the fans, the studio time, the drug use and struggles.
My heart used to beat with the rhythm of this book.
I have this paperback copy which no longer has the cover pages.
It has deteriorated along with my teenage angst.
However, I still remember being fourteen, dreaming about having a guitar, screaming the lyrics and my frustration with the world and reading this book.Frankly, I do not give a damn if it has especially good writing, probably not.
Years afterwards, I have my guitar.
I still feel inspired by the book and I will have it on my shelf until it inevitably crumbles into its own yellowy paper universe.
If your going to read a music bio of nirvana, this is it.
it reads quite easily and teaches some really interesting things that i had no idea about.
it was written before Kurt Cobain killed himself, and it is based on hours upon hours of interviews and conversations the author had with nirvana while he was tagging along on tour with the band.
it sifts through all the rumors and myths, it tells the true story from the mind of the band members.
if your a fan of nirvana or a musician or an artist, this is a book you should read.
The problem, as other reviewers have pointed out, is that this author, Michael Azerrad, is very clearly on Kurt Cobain's team, rooting for him and covering for him no matter what the facts on the ground actually look like.
Azerrad goes way out of the way to make Axl Rose of Guns N Roses look bad, dismissing him as a crude racist and a bully, basically echoing Cobain's attacks.
(Axl Rose comments: "I only dis black people when I'm tormented by mysterious stomach pain.")One final thought: I just looked up Frances Bean Cobain on Wikipedia and read an interview she gave to Rolling Stone magazine about a year ago.
One of the most influential bands to ever hit mother earth is Nirvana. These three weird guys managed to come out of nowhere and dominate the music scene. This scene which became selective, commercial and anti-artistic at the time. Their album became number one even beating Michael Jackson proving that grunge, alternative and punk aren't just lousy tries to revive Rock which has been dead. Proving that Rock isn't about makeup and long hair and acting macho. Proving that rock is a way of express
But I started losing interest not only in the band but also in music in general, which is weird because I thought that music was my passion in life.
– and it was the right book to read about the band because it was written while Kurt was alive and with his approval.
The final chapter was a bit of a shock; I read this book knowing that it was published while Kurt was alive so I didn't see it coming and it really made me sad.
"Come as you are" was a song that Kurt wrote to someone encouraging the person to not change him/herself for him.
"And the twentysomethings are the generation that's been led to believe that they missed out on all the best times.
They'd been broken up for years already.'"Shit.
It was high time for a revolution, and it just so happened that Nirvana, whose members lived in abject squalor and constantly pawned their instruments to stay afloat, were at the right place at the right moment.A lot happened in the few short years of Nirvana, and Azerrad tells the story masterfully.
I loved this book as a Nirvana fan, and I think anyone who gives two shits about rock music or the history of music in general would like it.
An interesting albeit sad read for anyone who lived through the swirl Nirvana caused as they destroyed the mainstream music market and then self-destructed, all within two years.
Dave mentions that he'd like to play guitar and sing in another band if Nirvana breaks up.
Dave seems to be the only one who could just enjoy playing music for a living without getting caught up in the darkness that engulfed Nirvana, and all the over-thinking that consumed Kurt Cobain.
My edition adds a necessary post-original publication bonus chapter to discuss Kurt Cobain's death.
He felt like he had to be a moody difficult punk rocker to maintain his authenticity but was compelled to write accessible music.
It often felt like reading a first draft, complete with occasional duplicated sentences, notebook dumps of trivial non sequitur anecdotes that don't go anywhere, and pages of out-of-place quotes.**When I realized this it reminded me that I've been thinking lately about what music I listen to that is actually written by people older than me.
Corn on the cops! Corn on the cops!
Azerrad has tons of quotes from Cobain and the rest of the band members, as well as Courtney Love.
But I also wonder if maybe that access didn't lead him to be too close to his material.
In addition, I was surprised to learn that Nirvana thinks of themselves as part of the punk tradition, since their music never seemed very punk to me, yet the author and Cobain return to this over and over.
Where I grew up, it was the stoners, not the punks, that wore Nirvana t-shirts.I also came to wonder if maybe Azerrad had originally penned some of the chapters as essays to be separately published, because there is an awful lot of repetition throughout.
It also mentioned a few more books that some songs were based off of, which is good, because Kurt Cobain hasn't steered me wrong yet with that sort of thing.-The way that it was written was conversational enough to keep me interested, but not too figurative - compared to the Charles R.
Cross biography, it was almost textbook-speak, but if you've read the Charles R.
Cross biography, you know that's not anything bad.-It didn't focus solely on Cobain!
It shows the ugly side of fame very vividly, and really gives the reader a sense of what Kurt's life was like, and all the inner turmoil that eventually caused him to end it.
I guess it would be hard to write a compelling book about Nirvana any other way, but it reads almost like a biography of Kurt as opposed to all three.
It can also be a little confusing because the book (i think) was written before his death, and later a final chapter was added, so there's no insight as to where the reast of the key players are now....
I picked this up in anticipation of the new Kurt Cobain documentary that's coming to Nashville soon. This of course is a familiar story but I did learn a few things, especially about album productions and technical aspects of the music, which I thought was really interesting. This book also sheds some new light on Kurt's relationships with Dave, Chris and Courtney and through Kurt's own words reveals a lot more detail about his character. Even though I knew the ending I really didn't want to finish this--the new final chapter is heartbreaking all over again.
An incredible story of an incredible band that changed the perception of alternative music. The impact of Nirvana is undeniable as it is witnessed in this book. Every fan MUST read it because here you can find Nirvana's story told by the band and the people that surrounded them. Up to this day Nirvana is my favorite band ever and it is favorite of mine since I've heard it when I was 12 years old. Like I said, this biography is absolutely amazing and worth reading.
This was a great book. One of the first non-fictions I ever tried to read over a subject I was obsessed with at the time so there was little doubt that it would be a great read for me at the time. But the notes from the author about who Kurt was to him were by far the most interesting pieces of this book.
The definitive bio because Cobain actually liked Azerrad; most of this book came from hours of interviews they did over a number of sessions. The audio recordings of those talks has been coupled with video footage of his hometown, etc. in the new documentary film, "About a Son."
i was obssessed with it when it came out. it was my bible, Azerrad was Mohammed translating from God Kurt. listen to In Utero - it'll still kick your ass.
Written very well, incredibly informative concering the scene during the early 90s, Seattle, music biz, the band and Kurt.
this book makes u feel like ur there in the nirvana scene as it happened, mostly cause Kurt was ambitious and never gave up, til the end of course, unfortunately.
The bulk of the book captures something that could have never been discussed the same way after April 1994.
Over the years, I've listened to a lot of their music and learned more about the band.
Azerrad expertly tells the story of how this band came to be and put a keen focus on the like of Kurt Cobain through his own words.
Given the type of person Cobain was, I think it is crucial that anyone writing about this man would need to know him and gain his trust like Azerrad apparently did because he got a lot of juicy morsels of truth from that man and it helped in understanding meanings behind the songs he did and how he lived his life.
I highly recommend this book to anyone who has an interest in Nirvana and/or Kurt Cobain.
Zawsze wyznacznikiem brzmienia Seattle był dla mnie Pearl Jam, któremu końcem podstawówki i początkiem liceum oddawałem muzycznie cały swój czas.
Sięgnąłem po biografię Nirvany po części z ciekawości aby dowiedzieć się o tym jak powstała legenda grunge, kim byli jej członkowie a przede wszystkim by dowiedzieć się kim był Kurt Cobain, który dla wielu osób jest ciągle idolem generacji X, zwanej także straconą generacją.
A może winna tu jest "Roślina" autorstwa Małgorzaty Taklińskiej, którą czytałem chyba ze dwadzieścia razy, mam w domu dwa wydania i był czas, że inne książki były mi zbędne, gdyż biografia Pearl Jam zawierała odpowiedzi na wszystkie pytania, no ale wtedy byłem nastolatkiem...
Michael Azerrad is a great writer of the rock and roll genre. I really enjoyed 'Our Band Could Be Your Life.' He weaves a great story here as well, telling the story of the rise of Nirvana and the rise and sudden end for Kurt Cobain.
This book was good. But be for warned, it is mostly all about Kurt Cobain. Not much is mentioned about Dave Grohl and only a line or two was mentioned about Pat Smear.
I was 15 once.
I love this band and all it stood for. If you do too, you’ll enjoy this book.
This book, published before Kurt Cobain's passing, provides a haunting glimpse into the misery and pain he carried every day of his existence. Azerrad writes brilliantly.
