https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/200780.The_Dreams_in_the_Witch_House_and_Other_Weird_Stories
But even here we can see how the writer is moving toward a more ambitious abstraction in his writing, a tendency that would eventually bear fruit in in his last masterpiece “The Shadow Out of Time.” Also in this volume you will find Lovecraft’s one indisputable literary “crime,” “The Horror of Red Hook,” in which H.P. allowed the fears he experienced in the diverse environment of greater New York to shape a tale that is indisputably racist.
I think perhaps my favourite thus far.
It doesn't feel like there is anything lacklustre in the characters, though that may be down to these being wonderfully written short stories as opposed to longer novels that need development in order to be any good.
Still, I am not frightened by his words, but this certainly made me pull a few faces (the rat in the bed if you know what I mean) and I liked that immensely.
It feels like Lovecraft is using the same kind of story arc but telling it in a thousand different ways, almost-metaphorically-in different languages.
I think I'm becoming quite a fan.
This is the third in the Penguin "modern classic" Lovecraft trilogy (the other two I have read previously).
An intense and unrelenting descent into the world of dreams and nightmare that makes references to many of his other Dunsanian tales, one of only three novellas he ever published (the other two being in the preceding book in this trilogy).More enjoyable for me are the stories where he explores old folklore traditions such as vampirism, witchcraft and demons.
Stories in this vein include "From Beyond", "Hypnos" and of course the great "Shadow Out of Time".Lovecraft certainly isn't for everyone.
Well I'm done with Penguin's three volumes of Lovecraft tales.
However, I wish they would make another volume or two because there they are missing some Lovecraft stories I see.
Some other time I might read them online because all his stuff is public domain thank the gods.With this volume I enjoyed the title story the most, but I also really like Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath.
Even though that story is really long, to me, it reads like a perfect Lovecraft story.
I also enjoyed reading these tales after Alan Moore's Providence comic book (helps me understand the plot a little bit more).
I had forgotten just how much I love Lovecraft. "It is written on the brick cylinders of Kadatheron that the beings of Ib were in hue as green as the lake and the mists that rise above it; that they had bulging eyes, pouting, flabby lips, and curious ears, and were without voice. It is also written that they descended one night from the moon in a mist; they and the vast still lake and grey stone city Ib."One-of-a-kind.
The third and weakest of the Penguin reissues. Includes some of Lovecraft's more fantasy style stories, including "The Dream Quest Of Unknown Kaddath" which feels interminable.Of the horror stories, few that are equal to his best, and a few that display his casual racism. Good notes by ST Joshi.Read the other two books first.
This is one of the standard texts of Lovecraft's stories now that Arkham House is defunct. Any and all HPL scholars and readers take note: these Penguins editions supercede the Arkham House editions, because many of the stories contained in the Penguin Classics series have been recently further corrected by S. T. Joshi according to HPL's autograph manuscripts at the John Hay Library.
My cumulative review of the three Penguin classic editions of Lovecraft's work can be seen under the entry for "Call of Cthulhu and Other Weird Stories," but full disclosure necessitates I comment here.
I feel the need to say that although I've marked this as "read" on my shelf, I never did complete it -- "The Horror at Red Hook" remains unread, and will for the foreseeable future.
Besides which, the story just looks too long.
But anyway -- thanks for ruining Lovecraft for me, Kim. Hope you're happy.
H.P. Lovecraft's writing is incredibly imaginative.
His imagery isn't so descriptive (such as Tolkien's) that I know exactly what something or someone looks like - but I have to use my own imagination to fill in the gaps to create what I think he's describing.
After reading this story, I feel like getting a pad of paper and drawing what I think some of his monstrous creatures look like, or creating a Lovecraft inspired series of paintings.That said - I don't think I would read another one of his stories.
"Dreams in the Witch House" was a little too dark for me.
I love me some HP Lovecraft. My favorite stories from this one had to be Cats of Ulthar and The Tree. The only sad thing about finishing this book is that I've pretty much read all the HP Lovecraft there is...
The Penguin Classics reprints of HP Lovecraft's work are a much more interesting read than most due to the footnotes. This one in particular also has my favorite of his stories, the Dream Quest to Unknown Kadath.
I'm going to break my reviews down by story, with some notes on this edition at the very end. Polaris A short little vignette that it is often credited as channeling Dunsany's fantasy style. However, Joshi reveals in his introduction that this story was written before Lovecraft ever read Dunsany. Other than that interesting tidbit, this tale focuses on a story seed that Lovecraft will use over and over again: the idea of mind swapping (in this case, ancestral). He explores this further in his la
However, Joshi reveals in his introduction that this story was written before Lovecraft ever read Dunsany.
Other than that interesting tidbit, this tale focuses on a story seed that Lovecraft will use over and over again: the idea of mind swapping (in this case, ancestral).
Lovecraft spends the bulk of it painting a picture for us of this wonderful, and great city of Sarnath.
This is Lovecraft's shortest story, and concerns a creepy old man who everyone knows better to avoid.
As far as Lovecraft's concept driven stories go, this is a good one.
a must read for lovecraft fans who want to read the lesser know, but just as compelling, randolph carter stories. it also features "the shadow out of time", which has haunted me as much as any of the other mythos stories.
My favorite stories were "The Dream Quest of Unknown Kadath" and "The Shadow Out Of Time".
H.P. Lovecraft is a necessary author to have read.
Some of the stories are excellent, others are annoyingly long and rambling, so 4 stars is more of an average between a rating of 5 stars for the former and 3 for the later.
Amazing, cover to cover. If you like anything to do with modern sci-fi, horror, suspense, and I would argue fantasy, then you should read Lovecraft. Also, if you like Poe :p
Best horror writer ever. I'll never look at angles the same way again...
Again, didn't enjoy this selection as much as I liked Call of Cthulhu and Other Weird Stories, although this collection does have Red Hook and Witch House. I think the dream cycle stories are interesting, but they get bogged down.
I enjoyed this collection of short stories and novellas much less than the other two penguin collections 'The Thing on the Doorstep' and 'The Call of Cthulhu'.
As a general rule of thumb, the longer Lovecraft's stories are, the better they tend to be.
This collection features numerous short, experimental stories including some from his 'Dream Cycle' series.
These stories only really started to make sense once I'd read 'The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath', so it may helpful for readers to break the chronological order of the book.
Overall it was a tough read to get through, with Lovecraft's prose managing to be equally exhilarating and exhausting.
Arranged chronologically as they are, if you start reading this book from cover to cover, you’ll have to get through a lot of un-Lovecraftian Lovecraft before you get to the good stuff.
And, in the case of this volume, the really good stuff, for me, is only the last tale, “The Shadow Out Of Time”, which reads like a summation of all Lovecraft was trying to do throughout his fiction-writing career: possession by alien forces, a nightmare journey through a dark, horrific, cyclopean city, and a warning about the cosmically terrifying fate awaiting all of mankind.
As Joshi notes in the introduction, this volume collects much of Lovecraft's "Dunsanian" pieces, ones inspired by Lord Dunsaney's fantasy fictions as opposed to the cosmic horrors of the Arkham Cycle.
These stories, while a departure from Lovecraft's cosmic horror stories, are still enjoyable though coloured by the influence of Lord Dunsaney.
Still there are genuine parts of excellent writing, particularly in The Dream Quest and The Cats of Ulthar is a stand-out piece as well.Of the other stories, the stand-out pieces include The Horror At Red Hook (a horror-infused detective story) and the masterpiece that is The Shadow Out of Time; rightly considered one of Lovecraft's best.
The middling edition of Penguins great editions of H.P. Lovecrafts work edited by S.T. Joshi.
There are a few very good stories in this edition, such as The Doom that came to Sarnath, The Terrible Old Man, The Cats of Ulthar, The Other Gods, The Lurking Fear.
On the other hand, there are allot of H.P. Lovecrafts fantasy-dreamlands stories like The Dream-quest of Unknown Kadath, Hypnos, Polaris, and The Silver Key which I don't care for and in my opinion are HPLs worst written work.
If you are a completist, then you probably should get this book, but if not only get the first and third of Penguins HPL series.
Overall, I didn't like this collection as much as the other two volumes in the series (The Call of Cthulhu and The Thing on the Doorstep).
There were only a few stories that I really, really liked.
This is perhaps not surprising, considering that this volume contains several of HPL's very short early stories - as well as many stories that are set in the dreamlands, which I personally don't think are as interesting and captivating as the rest of his stuff.
However, there are also some real gems in this collection - The Shadow out of Time, for example, absolutely blew me away.
A truly lousy collection of Lovecraft stories. At least a third of the stories seem to be from early in Lovecraft's career as they contain none of the horrific mastery of his later writing. The other Lovecraft book I've marked on this website is much more worthy of your time. This one's for Lovecraft completists only, though I will concede the story " The Horror at Redhook" is definitely notable.
only got through the first 5-page story to see that this wasn't the book for me. I judged this book by it's cover and thought it looked intriguing. But it's kind of Nathanial Hawthorne meets the sci-fi channel. Not my bag.
This story is fantastic. You'll never look at certain corners, mathematics or violet light quite the same.
Much better than the Chthulu book thus far--creepier stories. I really enjoy Lovecraft's style, whether I like the story or not!
Terrifying.
Lovecraft wrote some of the most depressing, nihilistic horror stories the world had ever read.
