https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80672.Double_Fudge
It was nice to catch up with Fudge one last time.
He is 5 years old now and still a mess.
He gets fixated on money and it really doesn't bring on the humor.
The whole thing with meeting the father's cousin in DC and then they stop by for a sleep over was pretty funny stuff.
I enjoyed that part.
There is a trip to DC to see how money is printed, Halloween, a cool Manhattan apartment and 2 very creepy twins.
I did enjoy this and I think it was the weakest in the series.
I enjoyed the parts about Uncle Feather, their Myna bird.
The book I am read is the 4th book of Farley Drexel Hatcher a.k.a Fudge: Double Fudge.
Then one day, Fudge asks Shelia Tubbman: Peter's sworn enemy, how much money she got.
During Chapter 2, Fudge, Peter's mom, Tootsie, and Peter went to buy shoes.
He named his bank: The Farley Drexel Hatcher Bank and I thougth it was creative and crazy.
I also heard in the book that Tootsie copied what Fudge said when not wanting to leave the shoe store.
The Princeton part was from another book I read one: Super Fudge and thats where Tootsie: Peter and Fudge's little sister first appear.
Judy Blume is great and so is 'Double Fudge.' Being a very linear person, I had a little anachronistic adjustment to do here, as Peter Hatcher has grown from the nine-year-old he was in 'Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing' into a 12-year old.
It reminded me of the many comic strips where the characters remain the same age over many years.
It makes me want to go to the other 'Fudge' books, each a decade or so apart for the author, but only a year for the characters.
The fourth grader with whom I read 'Double Fudge' (who had read 'Tales of a Fourth-Grade Nothing') was completely unfazed.
My favorite part about this book was when the Howie Hatchers came to visits and made the Hatchers angry and their apartment even smaller than what it seemed like.
I was really surprised when the Hatchers walked in their house and the Howie Hatchers were lined up in row sleeping on their living room floor, how did they get in, did they pick the lock?My Favorite character is Fudge because he is hilarious and the ‘’little brother you never want’’, according to Peter.
This book reminds me of my cousins PJ and Bruce Because PJ is like Peter smart, mature and calm while Bruce is little ,fun-loving, and crazy.
Another smasher from Judy Blume, this is the continuation of Superfudge and as good, if not more, as the last book. I just love Pete, his family and friends. When I read the book, somehow I feel as if I am living with them, and voyeuristically following their moves and adventures. I read this during a train journey and frightened my co-passengers by laughing out loud, and my husband and son were nonchalantly sitting with an ever tolerant expression on their faces. I do recommend this series for one and all
Peter's younger brother Farley Drexel ("Fudge") develops a borderline-obsessive interest in money in this story.
When the Howie Hatchers decide that they will be living with Peter's family for several weeks, chaos ensues.
This book is in the contemporary realistic fiction genre because it is set in 2002, the year of publication of Double Fudge.
It is set in Washington, D.C. as well as New York, where Peter and his family live.
While the book is the fifth in the Fudge series, you don't have to read them in order to understand the story.
"I love money,money,money!!!" is Fudge's new theme song.
Fudge's latest obsession is driving his brother Peter insane!
But life starts going coo-coo when Peter and his family meet their long-lost relatives, the Howie Hatchers of Honolulu, Hawaii.
Not only does Peter have to deal with the Natural Beauties- his annoying twin cousins who burst into song at the drop of a hat- but also their pesty little brother Fudge .
When Fudge discovers he's not the only Farley Drexel Hatcher in the world, Look Out!
Can Peter handle seventh grade plus a double dose of Fudge?
I'm disappointed in Judy Blume. She claimed at the beginning of the book that she was only moved to revive the Fudge series because she'd promised her grandson she would if she ever got a really great idea. I hate to break it to you, Judy, but you didn't have a great idea. At all. Fudge's fixation on money in the book is repellant and is never resolved. The cousins the Hatchers meet (completely implausibly) in DC are irritating and unlikeable. Mostly the story just retreads territory from the much better prior books. I wish I hadn't read this one.
I didn't really like it... I DON'T recommend it!!!!
I was having so much fun revisiting old books from me childhood that when I saw that Judy Blume herself narrates these I just had to give them a whirl.
Judy Blume is a fantastically wonderful reader.
All the elements that make the Hatcher family wonderful are present.
In this book, Fudge becomes obsessed with the concept of money.
I was laughing in delight and could listen to Judy Blume sing the money song over and over again.
I am so glad that I got to learn more of the Hatcher story in the later books.
I love these books and I've been taking some time out to read books I enjoyed as a child. This book is about Peter, Fudge and Tootie. The whole family goes on a vacation and meets up with Warren's family he hasn't seen since he was a child. His cousin and his family stays with the family in their small apartment and things very interesting. Fudge even has a cousin with the same exact name as him! This is a fun book and I enjoy the series very much.
Again - warning of the last few pages about the tooth fairy. If listening on audio, find a way to end it right after Fudge writes a note to the tooth fairy about his missing tooth. If reading aloud, make sure your kids can't see the final pages.
1) Book summary, in your own words (3 pts)-Fudge is a five-year-old little boy who has recently become obsessed with money.
Not only does this not help his obsession, the family also runs into their long lost cousins, The Hatchers.
The Hatchers have three children, Flora and Fauna, Farley Drexel Hatcher (which is also Fudge's real name).
The Hatchers invite themselves to stay with Fudge's family, and once they arrive, things get a little crazy.
The cousins try to give Farley Fudge's nickname, they let Fudge's older brother, Peter's bird, Uncle Feathers, out of his cage, and several other things that, to the reader, are quite funny.
This book was written in 2002. Quite a few years later then her last Fudge books. It feels a bit different but I can’t quite make it out. Almost like Fudge quieted down a bit. Also you pick up on some modern technologies that the earlier books wouldn’t have. I felt like Judy Blume time blocked the family so they will never grow old. Or at least age much slower then in reality.
Judy Blume Double Fudge is such an amazing this book is a New York Times best-selling author.
This book is all about this little brother named fudge he learned about money in very big way because he was asking his big brother Peter “how much would New York cost?” and that’s where it all started.
So one time when they went out, Fudge wanted to buy something and he was going to buy it with his own money and it was with fudge bucks so he gave it to the man and he didn’t accept the fudge bucks and Peter told Fudgethwat his fudge bucks weren’t real that they didn’t cost anything.
The final novel in Blume’s Fudge series.
In their final story, Fudge is obsessed with money; all he can think about is having and spending it, which gets a little concerning.
While out in Washington learning about money, the Hatcher’s find their long lost family from Hawaii.
This has to be one of the best novels from this series; it has life lessons in it, and it’s also comedic.
Peter and Fudge have great moments together in this novel that leaves the reader feeling elated.
Overall, this series as a whole is a pleasant read full of funny stories that make the reader laugh out loud.
The fourth book in the Fudge & Peter series, this one came out something like 7 years after Fudge-a-Mania.
Now being an adult when it came out, I wasn't exactly following the childrens' books news any more, so I had no idea it had come out until years later.
When I saw it in a bookstore, I bought it along with Fudge-a-Mania right away because of my cherished memories of the reading the first two books in the series many years before when I was in grade school.Reading it as an adult, I definitely had a different reaction.
summary: A 13yr. old boy named Peter Hatcher lives in New York and has a little brother named Fudge that becomes obsessed with money and thier family trys everything to make it stop. At the same time, there myna bird stops talking and his best friend moves away to Princeton.opinion: I like this book because its funny with all the trouble Fudge starts and I just like realistic fiction.recomendation: I recomend that you read this book, but first read Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing and Super Fudge.
A fabulous ending to a wonderful series.
While many wish there would be more Fudge books including me because I want to see more of the characters, this book is really where the story should end.
The books come full circle in a humorous turn of events where fudge learns a lesson and really grows.
While Peter tells the story and we get to watch him grow and develop Fudge does the most changing throughout the entire series.
A gripping series for all readers.
This is a series I can’t wait to read to my future children.
My son LOVED this book. It is the fourth book in the Peter and Fudge series. This book refers to events in previous books, so I am glad we read them in order. In this book, Fudge loves money. It is pretty hilarious. A lot more goes on, of course--trouble with his bird and some unwelcome visitors. If you are a homeschooling family, you may want to avoid this, though, because it features a really obnoxious homeschooling family. The dad does not allow sleepovers, candy, and TV. I don't homeschool, but I thought it went a little overboard.
Read these with the kiddos. Made the mistake of giving Fudge a funny voice, which they then demanded I use across all 5 books. The series follows a predictable "quality course." The first book is original and lots of fun. The second book focuses more on the cute breakout character from the first book, and the rest of the books, well, they're just trying hard to find something else relevant in the story world to fill up a book.
My daughter received this audiobook for Christmas. How can you not love Judy Blume, and one of the best things about this audiobook version is that the story is READ BY Judy Blume herself. The audiobook contains 4 CD's, and is a new favorite of my daughter. I am sure this one will be played many times.
This is a story called Double Fudge. This is a great book. I think this is a great book because it is funny. For example it is funny because his brother is funny. I recomed this book to sixth graders. The authors name is Judy Blume. So this is my opinion about the book.
In double fudge the main caricature was peter. The main problem is peters other family they kept annoying him. A lesson that I learned is that just because you might not act like them dose not mean you did not act like that.I liked that and I thought it was funny
Recommend chapter book to 3rd - 5th graders
I must have more Fudge!!!!!! Or in this case, Egduf Muriel!!!!
It was a really good book and every time i read it i smile at the thought of little boys running around with parrots.
This could be my favorite of the Fudge books. Pretty clever.
Just doesn't quite have the same charm as the original Superfudge to Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing. But perhaps it's because I'm significantly older than I was when I read those.
again, it was an okay book... pretty much all of judy blume's books are interesting but not something you'd call a really good read...
