https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/395868.Playing_Beatie_Bow
Playing Beatie Bow by Ruth Parkand beautifully narrated by Kate HoodI have been listening to this on audio just a chapter or two at a time and loved it!
It is easy to envision this endearing time-travelling Beatie Bow story unfolding there.
When a harmless little scary game called playing Beatie Bow goes awry, little Abigail finds herself suddenly transported to another place and time...a place she is sure she doesn't recognize, yet is somehow familiar.
It's only 200 pages and I *loved* it as a kid.
The gist of the story is that an obnoxious 14 year old brat named Abigail finds herself in 19th century Sydney.
She ends up staying with the Bow family, falls for the 19 year old son, gets kidnapped and fins herself in a brothel, survives a fire, manages to get back to 1980, and then four years later, falls instantly in love with a Bow family descendant who just so happens to look exactly like the 19 year old son.
I wanted to love this like I did when I was a kid.
But children's books (and YA books) have moved on so much in the past 37 years, and I just found this dragged on 5eva.
I really love Ruth Park's books especially as I know Sydney well and can visualize the places she writes about.
Playing Beatie Bow is set in the Rocks area of Sydney and the references to local places are wonderful.
Add to this the fact that the book features time travel which is one of my favourite things and you can see it has to be a winner for me.
I enjoyed all of the characters, all of the descriptions of life at that time and the clever little story which deftly linked the past to the present and managed to have a happy ending.

I was nine years old, and although I liked it, I don't think I really understood it all.Reading it as an adult I have a completely different appreciation of it.I found it to be an easy, quick read.
I also appreciated the ending despite it's sappiness and that it 'tied everything up neatly'.Upon re-reading I'm not sure I would give it to a 9 year old to read as it does peek into somewhat adult themes, but then again those themes flew right over my head back then and I loved the book.
Delightful. Revisiting my childhood in the sweetest way.
(Although, since her parents are clearly hopeless, I suppose she's the only person in her family with a chance at maturity.) Then, the way this is achieved is by having Abigail "fall in love" with 18-year-old Judah, the eldest son of the Bow family (and a "man, not a boy" due to living a hundred years earlier).
Maybe I've never been really kind in my life.And she remembered with a pang what Kathy had said, that awful day: that she had never, either as a child or a fourteen-year-old, offered a word of sympathy to her her mother.'Yet here are these people, happy and grateful to be able to read and write, just to be allowed to earn a living; and they've shared everything they can share with me, whom they don't know from Adam.'These Victorians lived in a dangerous world, where a whole family could be wiped out with typhoid fever or smallpox, where a soldier could get a hole in his head that you could put your fist in, where there were no pensions or free hospitals or penicillin or proper education for girls, or even boys, probably.

I remember my trip to Sydney on an excursion, more than the book. This is a classic Aussie book, excellent for primary school students.
This was a re-read to assist with a novel I'm currently writing. Very believable situation on time travel back to the past and life in those days.
I remember crying over this book at school. It's pretty dark for a novel aimed at young adults, but Ruth Park is so deft at weaving the strands of her story that it's very difficult to put down, even as an adult. Much of this story is a curious blend of history and fantasy, but the themes she explores through the eyes of her out of place lead character - family, fitting in, first love, first loss - are thoroughly modern.
Last weekend, I picked it up again and my heart still pounded at the same points and I had to blink away tears before my family spied me crying over this gorgeous little book.Playing Beatie Bow was first published in 1980 and I remember being of similar age to Abigail, the fourteen-year old protagonist when I first read the story.
Thanks to the members of my small Twitter book club I came to Ruth Park late in life, reading her Harp in the South trilogy first, then the first volume of her autobiography, and now this.
I think I would have loved this book as a child, and enjoyed it as an adult.
Clearly Ruth Park was a writer who loved, above all, to tell stories, and all her books seem to show her belief, I guess, that the suffering of those less economically fortunate, and joys, and endurance too, are worth illumating.
I look forward to reading all of her work.
An absolutely magical story. I loved following Abby on her strange little journey into the past. I'm very glad I stumbled across this book.
Fabulous evocative historical novel that also has a great message. Listened on audio. This was in the Junior section at my library. Should be YA
Strengths:- The premise is interesting.- Describes the setting in vivid detail, providing a real sense of Sydney's history.
For a time travel story this had great potential, but it doesn't deliver nearly as much as it could have.- The characters, while certainly interesting and colourful in a way, are not as well-drawn and believable as Park's characters usually are.
The way Abigail is characterised as a result of this really irks me.- The romantic part of the story is too sudden and cheesy.
I won this book in year 8 primary school and it was a real treat. I love the imagery and this was my first experience of reading about a past time period.
This book was definitely an interesting read.
Although a lot of the meaning was made blatantly obvious, no analysing needed, it also had moments where I did not straight a way understand the meaning, until I had finished the book and was able to look back at the events the way Abigail did.
It was a little romanticised but that is what I enjoy, so can you really blame me?This book was a nice, fun, quick read and I am definitely glad that I read it.
I definitely wish I had read it when I was a little younger, though, as I would have related to Abigail more directly.
Abby Kirk, flat-chested lonely unsociable 14, "raged and sulked" p 23 when mother Jan 36 wants to rejoin unfaithful husband in Norway "love is a thing you have to experience before you know how powerful it can be" p 19.
If theme is 'power of love' (cue music "and now the violins" p 26), vanquishes time, why is title about career-driven spinster?Emphasis on working-class lifestyle history, geography, child grows up, same as https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7....
Why does everyone believe time link is not Bow (Beatie/Natalie) powers, but crocheted flower, not yet made in past but tacked on Abby's homemade dress in future?
I LOVED this book growing up! I would have given it 5 starts then. I still love it but only 4.5 stars as an adult. I remember visiting the Rocks soon after reading it and running through the alleyways with my sister. Every time I have returned to the Rocks since I am so disappointed how touristy and developed it is. Mmm I am sounding old. 😳
Quick Kids' book read--Australian history and time travel. Fun and lively.
Three and a half stars. The working-class Victorian setting was well done. The modern-day story was okay, but I never really connected with the main character.
Most books I loved as a child/teenager failed to live up to expectations when reread as an adult. This proved to be one of the exceptions and I enjoyed it so much. Maybe it was the location, maybe it was the characters and probably it was the author's talent that made this book so exceptional.
The voice actors sounded exactly right, their accents and the way they said things perfectly matched how I'd heard it in my head.MILD SPOILERSOne thing I noted with approval on reading it again was that Abigail's feelings for Judah were based on his personality more than his looks.
However the author counteracts that a bit by going on about 'true love' and describing the feeling of meeting for the first time and just KNOWING that it was 'meant to be'.
You cannot truly love someone that you don't know, and I have *strong doubts* that anyone really feels any kind of premonition about who they will eventually end up with.
The associated assessment asked the students to reflect on the nebulous topic of Australian values.
Thankfully, the students in our schools are far more diverse than that--they're not all Anglo and Christian--and even Year 7s can pick up on the hypocrisy of our politicians and, indeed, the very real improvements for girls, women, and those with physical and mental disabilities since 1873, the year teenage Abby travels back to in the novel.
I suppose this interrogation of 'Australian values' is the opportunity such an ill-defined topic presents to teachers; the curriculum isn't entirely prescriptive; there's a lot of room for interpretation and discussion.
I was recently informed that because I had never read Playing Beatie Bow - apparently unlike every other Australian child since 1980 - my life was lacking.
When Penguin's Australian Children's Classics series was released, I bought a copy and can now say that I wish I had the chance to read it as a child, because it is most definitely a tale I would have loved dearly.Playing Beatie Bow tells the story of Abigail (formerly Lynette) Kirk.
What I liked:- It doesn't feel dated - it hold up well against modern YA fiction - Ruth Park's elegant style (most of the time - too much telling and not showing at times)- The climactic scene where Abby finds out why she has been sent back in time.- The vivid setting - great combination of modern Sydney and the past.- It's a time travel story - how bad can that be?What I didn't...- How annoying all the characters are.
As a child I completely missed the implication that Abby is going to be sold into prostitution when she is captured by slavers...
Judah was a dreamboat from what was described from him, and I wanted him and Abby to get together, but it wasn't meant to be.
Very cute.Anyway, Beatie Bow was so annoying but she was a child and I think that one of the main values of this story is growth and maturity.The horrific scene when Abby was taken away through an alleyway was unbelievably chilling.
I was rapidly scanning the page and visibly cringing at the ugly descriptions of the characters- I was afraid Abby was never going to be saved and that the story would be about a child stuck in the past serving in slave labour.
I'm going to be completely honest here and start off by saying that part of the reason I loved this book so much is probably because of the nostalgia of it.
I had read it when I was at school, and for years couldn't remember the title of the book.
I love the time travel component, and learning about what Sydney was like in the past (especially as I live in Sydney!).
The characters were both lively and flawed, which is just the way I like them, and for a time travel story it is remarkably believable.
