https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38473.Blues_for_Mister_Charlie
And so Baldwin's play deals with the aftermath of the brutal murder of the young black man Richard by the white townsman Lyle.The play then, for me, takes place in Plaguetown, U.S.A., now.
The title of the play refers to the pejorative expression used within the African-American community to refer to an imperious white man: Mister Charlie.
The thing that annoyed me the most about the play is that Baldwin wanted to force empathy for the character Parnell – Meridian's white “friend” who promised to bring the truth to light (i.e. Help with the persecution of Lyle).
Baldwin had traveled with Evers to the backwoods of Mississippi as the latter investigated the death of a black man by a white storekeeper: a scary time, place and circumstances for both men due to the color of their skin.
In the last act, the words of the separate white and black “Greek choruses” come through as if spoken by communities of individuals: I could hear their cries.I didn’t know of this work before finding it in a used bookstore among ‘classic’ school texts.
Όπως είναι φυσικό το έργο κατέληξε να διχάσει το κοινό με τις ιδέες του, όχι μόνο εξαιτίας της ιδιόμορφης αντιμετώπισης του εγκληματία αλλά και λόγω της τόσο φανερής απεύθυνσης σε λευκό ακροατήριο, εντούτοις, η λύση για τον τίτλο του έργου δίνεται από τον πατέρα του νεκρού Richard, "All white men are Mister Charlie"· ως Mister Charlie δηλαδή χαρακτηρίζεται ο λευκός άνθρωπος εν γένει, αποτελώντας μια καρικατούρα.
Ταυτόχρονα, είναι τουλάχιστον ριζοσπαστική η σύνδεση που θέτει ο συγγραφέας της θρησκευτικής πίστης και της αξιοπρέπειας, με την έννοια ότι ο μαύρος άνθρωπος επιλέγει να πιστέψει στο Θεό ακριβώς για να θεωρείται άνθρωπος, αν όχι στα μάτια των υπόλοιπων λευκών ανθρώπων, τότε σε εκείνα του Θεού.
A play inspired by the story of Emmett Till, I knew this would be a rough read but underestimated by just how much. For majority of the play, Baldwin had me convinced that the story wouldn’t play out the way Till’s story did but in the end, it shook me completely to realize just how indifferent the world really is.In his introduction, Baldwin tells us: The plague is race, the plague is our concept of Christianity: and this raging plague has the power to destroy every human relationship. The play
One cannot expect a black man/woman to forget the treatment of their ancestors until whites have acknowledge the centuries worth of torture, rape, murder, suppression, and absolute and utter humiliation their ancestors have caused.Meridian, a black Christian minister, is another character that is torn between his faith and the reality.
Of course, if you go back far enough, you get to a point before Christ, if you see what I mean, B.C.— and at that point, I’ve been thinking, black people weren’t raised to turn the other cheek, and in the hope of heaven.
I’ve been thinking, I’ve had to think— would I have been such a Christian if I hadn’t been born black?
I am trying to work my way through Baldwin's entire canon.
There are many parts that made me cringe, but I know that Baldwin wants the reader to flinch at the ugly reality of racism.
As I read, I feel the inequities that Baldwin discusses still exist.
I also think that the glimpse into Lyle's life as a white man in the South is an attempt to show a man that is a result of his surroundings.
Baldwin is writing what he sees.
All in all, a solid piece of writing that I am glad I read.
If all the books get banned and we have parents afraid to sit down and talk about sex, drugs, and violence how will we learn?
Lessons can be learned from the banned books but parents don’t want their children exposed to the content of these supposedly banned books.
No one seems to care about what happens to the world and the people of the world but they take a lot of time just to have these books banned.Instead of banning the books maybe a reasonable age limit should be put on the books in school if that’s more comfortable for parents.
Not my favorite book of Baldwins', but I appreciate his short, but powerful play, "Blues for Mister Charlie." The dialoge in the book is at times rigid, cliche, and predictable.
I think Baldwin does a grave disservice to Richard, and his, at times, legitimate rage has towards whites.
She seemed like one of the more interesting within the play, especially in her lack of knowledge of her husband's past philandering, and his first time murdering a black man.
I do find value in Baldwin's attempting to get into the mind of a white supremacist and murderer.
A punch in the chest: a raw look at race and justice in the 1960s - inspired by the murder of Emmett Till in 1955, "Blues for Mister Charlie" is the story of a white man who is acquitted of a black man's murder, and the issues it causes every one around him to confront. Though I love "Uncle Jimmy's" essays and fiction much better, this is still a must read of his canon. Can't wait to see this piece performed.
i am not yet sure what makes a play great, or a revelation. i haven't read enough. but what i do know and can lean on with all the weight of my heart, is when a work pulls me up, and out, and all about. which is what this play did. i finished it in tears, as i knew i was. baldwin, you are my saving grace.
A scatter-shot re-telling of the Emmett Till case with the same hamfisted and overcooked staging of One Day, When I Was Lost.
The introduction to the play is a worthwhile read if only to capture Baldwin's mission with the play as well as the understanding that this play was more of a moral obligation than a passion project (as one who has little nice things to say about the theater).
Baldwin's best outside of the dramatic medium - which seems like an uncontroversial and plenty obvious statement - so I'll spare the reader further haranguing and say this work would primarily appeal to the Baldwin completionist nutjobs like me.
The 1955 murder of 14-year old African-American boy Emmett Till was brutal and shocking by any standards.
After speaking to a white woman in a Mississippi grocery store, Till was kidnapped and taken to a barn where he was beaten and had his eye gouged out before ultimately being shot in the head and dumped in the Tallahatchie River.
Roy Bryant was acquitted of murder despite pretty much bragging all over town that he did it.Blues for Mister Charlie changes the names, but is based on the events of Till's murder, centering mainly on the trial.
The book did not catch my attention either as a play or a statement.
Unlike To Kill a Mockingbird, which felt a bit more universal, this book doesn't escape the world it was set in.I can respect the historical significance of this book, but to a twenty-first century whippersnapper for whom racial coexistance is not an opption but implied in existence, the issues it deals with are disrespectfully and --yes, naively-- discarded as an anachronism in my experienced world.
Even when forced to admit its acceptance, the nature of racism has changed such this book may not shine enough light on the issues we today grapple.
considering baldwin didn't really do drama (in the intro to my copy he writes that he never intended to do drama at all and actually hates the form), but he does a really great job with it.
i could visualize the stage set up while reading it and the physical set up added a lot to the action.
as i recall, when this came out it was like a giant fuck you to a lot of folks.
after it's (very short) run in new york, baldwin left the country for like 10 years if i'm remembering correctly.
A bitter experience, reading this play. An ugly story (based on the case of Emmett Till), beautifully told. Baldwin portrays the disfigurement of race, sex, and Christianity in mid-20th-century America, and offers little hope for redemption.
After seeing the recent doc 'I Am Not Your Negro', I wanted to become more familiar with James Baldwin's work.
As written, yes, there are moments here and there (in some of the monologues) where the play's spirit is preachy, but I don't find those moments troublesome, nor do I think they detract - to me, they read more as "cries in the wilderness".
The script is nearly stage direction-free; the emphasis is on dialogue and there are only hints here and there of how Baldwin thinks visuals should be staged.
We are first given the view from the black side of town, then from the white side...and things build to a trial - written in a free-style manner.
In it both sides of racism are explored from both the Black and White perspective.
Most of the town lines up on their respective sides; the whites back the accused, Lyle, while the blacks are out for some measure of justice for the fallen young man while knowing they're unlikely to get any.
White people, especially the men, feel threatened by the black members of their community especially as those members begin to speak and act out on their unequal treatment.
The blacks are filled with their own anger and fear rooted in the history of slavery and continuing into the Jim Crow reality in which they are oppressed by their white neighbors.
This play was written to shock -- shock at the language a black man uses when talking to a white woman, and talking among his friends.
The story itself screams 1960s in some ways -- particularly with the traditional white liberal stumbling about trying to keep his peace with the black community and white racists who buy the newspaper he publishes.
But the whites -- their complaints about communists and people who don't understand their traditions, and assorted moaning about people who look down on them because of their views, sound way too much like the MAGA trolls who love their Trump and love their twitter.
Anything James Baldwin ever wrote is always worth a read, and Blues for Mister Charlie is no exception.
It is a searing and painful read, and doesn't flinch away from the brutal realities of racism.
Reading this book was another example of being reminded how little progress we've truly made in terms of racial equity.
If you replaced the murderer's occupation of storekeeper with that of cop, this play could have been written last year instead of the 1960's.Baldwin was one America's greatest writers, and this play hit me hard.
But we should read it nontheless.
When I first read "Blues for Mister Charlie" decades ago, I found the play's extreme polarization between blacks and whites contrived. Now, I'm sorry to report it feels incredibly, painfully truthful. There a lot of fury in James Baldwin's courtroom drama about a murdered young black man but there's a lot of compassion and sorrow in it, too. As with everything he writes, this drama has a sense of immediacy to it, an immediacy that hasn't lessened over the years but has stayed as urgent and clear-sighted as ever.
This was good, but did not for me add a great deal to my understanding of Baldwin as an author. As always his ability to create understanding of his characters, from so many different angles, is sublime, but I felt it tread many of his same themes and conflicts in similar ways to his novels. Shirt and enjoyable, but not especially memorable (in written form at least. I’d love to see a production of this play)
I can’t express enough how deeply relevant and impactful this three act play is. Written more than 60 years ago in the Jim Crow south and with little adaptation, is still happening today. Jame Baldwin’s work is a heart wrenching treasure that should be required reading.
This is a play and reads that way. This, however, does not detract from how powerful it is. A man was murdered and the man who killed him was found not guilty. But this also delves deeper into people's thoughts and is so profound.
I am a big Baldwin fan. I am not a big fan of reading plays... which this is. But it was written well of course and gave Mississippi Burning appeal.
EMPATHY
The struggle continues...
Baldwin's second play.Based, loosely, on the death of Emmett Till. The play still seems prescient, thought I don't know if Baldwin's play are still performed.
One of my favorite works of Baldwin's that I've read so far! A brutally real, but important narrative in response to the murder of Emmit Till.
It is always challenging to read a play, as one really needs to experience a production, to catch the nuances. But the preface alone is a worthwhile read, along with Baldwin's take on Christianity..
Racial Politics: A+Narrative/Characters: BAct III: D- 3-3.5 stars!
People familiar with this kind of person will also note that in Blues for Mister Charlie James Baldwin manages to perfectly capture the voice of these people, a remarkable feat that ultimately does more harm to the story than good.Fiction can be used to study complex issues, including racism and sex, but at some point one will have to write an engaging story otherwise the reader will begin to question why the fictional elements are present when the author could just as easily have written a nonfiction book to analyze his desired topics, and perhaps have delved deeper into the themes that way.Blues for Mister Charlie is an intelligent book.
