https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6193.Life_and_Times_of_Michael_K
Just a few words, a first step...Life and Times of Michael K completely lived up to what I expected from J.M. Coetzee, after having been overwhelmed by his Disgrace.
But it goes beyond even that, it is about the depths one can reach through the things we value, and their meanings when they are extensions of one’s true self.If life is a journey, Life and Times of Michael K is a road-trip of survival in a world enterily set against him.
Indeed, Michael K, alone in a brutal world of roving armies and unable to bear confinement, escapes in search of salvation.
Three allegoric movements compose this symphonic tale, whose inert melody is inwardly repeated in a concentric canon of voices where character, writer and reader create a fused metanarration alternating rhythms of disquiet, frigidity and discomfort.It all starts with bafflement.Michael K is an outsider with a harelip, a defective soul whom people take for an indolent moron, a wooden man thrown into the battlefield of life with a past as opaque as his present and as elusive as his future.I read subjugated, tempted to dissect such specimen to find a logical explanation but the text acts as a mirror showing a reflection of myself that is everything but gratifying.Michael K pushes a wheelbarrow that carries his sick mother to her native town in the countryside with little awareness of the phantasmagorical atmosphere that rings in the reader’s ears with its muted bombs, disguised mine shafts and nightmarish ambushes.
266. The Life And Times of Michael K, J.M. CoetzeeLife & Times of Michael K is a 1983 novel by South African-born writer J. M. Coetzee. The novel won the Booker Prize for 1983. The novel is a story of a man named Michael K, who makes an arduous journey from Cape Town to his mother's rural birthplace, amid a fictitious civil war during the apartheid era, in the 1970-80s.عنوانها: زندگی و زمانه مایکل ک؛ روزگار آقای مایکل ک؛ نویسنده: جی.ام. کوتسی (کوتزی)؛ (فرهنگ نشر نو) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوان
کوتسی؛ مترجم: مینو مشیری؛ ویراستار: محمدرضا جعفری؛ تهران، فرهنگ نشر نو، آسیم، 1383؛ در پانزده و 221 ص؛ شابک: 9647443242؛ چاپ دوم 1385؛ چاپ چهارم 1396؛ شابک: 9789647443241؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان افریقایی - سده 20 معنوان: زندگی و زمانه مایکل ک؛ نویسنده: جی.ام.
کوتسی؛ مترجم: آناهیتا تدین؛ تهران، روزگار، 1384، در 318 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1390؛ در 262 ص؛عنوان: روزگار آقای مایکل ک؛ نویسنده: جی.ام.
کوتزی؛ مترجم: ندا رهنوردحق؛ تهران، نگار و نیما (نگیما)، 1384، در در 274 ص؛ شابک: 9647905637؛ چاپ دوم 1384، در 299 ص؛ شابک: 9647905521؛زندگی و زمانه مایکل ک، کتاب آسانی نیست، تا بتوانم آن را در یکی دو جمله یا پاراگراف تفسیر کنم.
Instead, I felt pity for the ones who are incapable of recognizing true misery when they see it, the ones who fail to identify the root cause of all human conflict and its futility, who pride themselves on their achievements which are, sometimes, nothing but grave mistakes in the greater scheme of things.In spite of being born with genetic deformities and other crucial handicaps like the absence of a privileged background, Michael K is a fortunate being in my eyes.
~ The Community of Misery 'Misery loves company.' I've always kind of really hated that expression because (rightly or not) I've usually deciphered the unsettling subtext whenever it's employed: i.e., that people -- experiencing misfortunes or enduring profound unhappiness -- prefer that others are likewise afflicted.
The community of misery I'm speaking of is the shared experience wherein we realize that our suffering is unexceptional.
I wake up in the night shrieking about my strangely mechanistic biology!' The example is exaggerated, of course, but in the prior instance the Hypothetical You have entered a community of misery.
During a civil war in South Africa, Michael K., a simple man born with a harelip, tries to get help for his sick mother; then, after she dies, he attempts to take her ashes to the farm where she grew up.There’s something powerful yet elusive about this short novel by Nobel laureate J.M. Coetzee. As in his other Booker Prize-winning novel,  Disgrace , this fictional world is simultaneously familiar and nightmarish.The spirit of Franz Kafka hovers over the book: in the protagonist’s name (think of
During a civil war in South Africa, Michael K., a simple man born with a harelip, tries to get help for his sick mother; then, after she dies, he attempts to take her ashes to the farm where she grew up.There’s something powerful yet elusive about this short novel by Nobel laureate J.M. Coetzee.
Can he do that in this world?The prose is at times hypnotic in its understated simplicity: uncluttered and clear, devoid of sentimentality.Some readers have found the introduction and perspective of another character late in the book to be jarring, but I felt it added an additional layer of complexity to this enigmatic and haunting novel about living with dignity, freedom and a sense of purpose.
Last thing I want to do is fall out with my bookfacingoodreadinfingerlickin friends such as Donald and Jessica, both of whom think this is so good you have to invent a new word for it, good just isn't good enough, brilliant is almost an insult.
But I didn't love the Doctor's contorted vapourisings on the subject of lowly Michael K.
I may have got up on the wrong side of the bed today, but I'm quickly developing a theory that Life and Times of Michael K is the intellectual version of Pretty Woman (the movie not the Roy Orbison ballad).
That is something rare and wonderful that isn’t often to be found, but I think it is close to the root of why certain readers trumpet certain authors and books with the fervor of one who has found The Grail or some other talisman of sacred import.
The Life and Times of Michael K is my most recent experience where I closed a book at its end and felt I had been exposed completely to a real, living soul; where I felt the alchemy of a life lived thorough another take place.
"War is the father of all and king of all. Some he shows as gods, others as men. Some he makes slaves and others, free." But how does one differentiate between The Slave and The Free? Is that Man a slave, whose captivity by the victor frees him of his worldly expectations? Or should we call that Man, free who has no kin to bother about since they have all been enslaved in the war fire? Is it possible to live a life without succumbing to either side? Or is it inevitable to be one without being t
Or should we call that Man, free who has no kin to bother about since they have all been enslaved in the war fire?
But he lifts us up to a devastating height from where we can see the merciless resilience that survival demands from a Man under the darkest clouds of war and death, by focussing our attention to Michael K.
But in the aftermath of the Civil War, when his mother, through fits of falling health, expresses her desire to move back to her childhood place across the countryside, the filial Michael doesn’t refuse for long.
I mean, this from a girl who gets pushed near complete mental breakdown by rude public cellphone use, or girls who spread their stuff out all over the bench in the gym locker room and won't share the space, or people getting uncivil on Bookface -- I mean, I've got an extremely low tolerance for any evidence of man's inhumanity (a questionable term -- "brutality" being similarly problematic) to man, and thinking about what it might be like to exist in war-torn, apartheid South Africa really does strain the limits of my gentle mind.But Coetzee sent me there, and pushed me through it.The Life and Times of Michael K hooked me at the beginning with its chillingly plausible description of homelessness.
Life and Times of Michael K completely lives up to the hype and deserves every fucking award it has received.
Both corporeally and allegorically it is as deep as they come; it isn’t just about the slow thinking Michael K.
And her own mother, in the secret life we do not see, was a child too.
As we go forward planting the seeds of who we are, especially in times of peril, if we stay true to ourselves, the beauty of our unique human condition makes its mark; meaning is carved out; life is strengthened and affirmed, and it all sprouts from what is inside us.
knows this.If you're thinking of reading Life and Times of Michael K.
In a word: devastating.This is Coetzee's signature novel and absolutely must be read. To say that I loved it feels like a highly inappropriate statement because even though I feel that way I can't love a book that devastated me as a reader and challenged my notions about reconciliation and redemption from injustices of the past on an individual as well as societal levels. Perhaps not many would see it that way but the novel is also a subtle statement on race relations in modern times and its power dynamics, and it offers no rainbow ending, no feel-good resolution.
به مادر اصلیش به زمین...چرا که آزادی و رهایی شاید تنها دغدغه ی ذهنی مایکله و در انتهای فصل دوم حتی در خیال و توهمات پزشک داستان، تبدیل به رهبری برای شاید نوع بشریت در جستجوی آزادی میشهعلاقه ی نویسنده به زمین با باغبان بودن مایکل و علاقه ی مفرطش به زراعت و بذر و محصولاتش قشنگ نمایش داده شده.
اشاره میکنم به غلبه ی همه جانبه ی مایکل روی شرایط جسمی و روانیش با وجود همه سختی ها و اعتصاب غذایی های طولانی مدت و همچنان زنده و سرپا بودنجنگ و توخالی و بی هدف بودنش هم خیلی جاها بخصوص تو فصل دوم و لابلای مکالمات دو پزشک بیمارستان هدف قرار می گیرهکتاب خیلی بیش از اینها حرف برای گفتن داره.فقط باید صبور بود و در مقابل روند داستانی یکنواخت نویسنده تسلیم نشد تا به لذت نهایی رسید
And this is depression and as you read it emanates from your very pores until you and the book are enveloped in it like a halo of light the colour of the outside of the universe.So that was good.
By which I mean it was brilliantly portrayed and hopelessly moving.But then we get to part the third and suddenly the thing turns into this pathetic Coelho-esque excuse for a book.
Right.And I really would have liked to have joined in the Coetzee-fest when it was actually on.
And there were no Coetzee books in the public library.
Do đó, sẽ vô ích nếu cố gắng hiểu anh theo cách của đại đa số loài người.Nói một cách bông phèng thì trong một chừng mực nào đó thì Michael rất giống Danny và các bạn trong Thị trấn Tortilla Flat của John Steinbeck.
Phần lớn chúng ta thì vừa quan tâm đến rượu và đàn bà vừa quan tâm đến tiền:)Michael K mới đích thực là người làm vườn vĩ đại.Tôi đang cố gắng miêu tả chính xác cảm giác của mình: cuốn sách này ngấm vào tôi như nước ngấm vào đất.
There’s a sense here that Coetzee is sermonising, telling us what we ought to make of Michael as allegory or symbol of his country’s plight.
I will die, he thought, still not knowing what the quotient is.” And this is the case, though we are also asked to acknowledge that “enough men had gone off to war saying the time for gardening was when the war was over; whereas there must be men to stay behind and keep gardening alive, or at least the idea of gardening; because once that cord was broken, the earth would grow hard and forget her children.”
However, something really strange happens two-thirds of the way in that I found very disappointing.
I got the feeling that the main reason for this was the author wanted to pose the kinds of questions that might end up on a high school essay about this book and wasn’t quite sure how else to fit them into the novel itself (oh, Lit Crit, you have much to answer for).This got worse and worse, until I thought that if I had written this book I would have kept it in the style of the first part of the book the whole way through and just shown the main character doing what it becomes increasingly clear the main character is likely to do throughout much of the last part of this novel.
A novel in parts. The first being a comically miserable little tale of a Kafka character in Sud-Afrika, the second of a doctor's philosophical investigations of this man, and the third being some hippy-dippy nonsense.
ომზე ბევრი წიგნი დაწერილა და ბევრიც წაგვიკითხავს გაუპატიურებულ ქალებზე, მშიერ ბავშვებზე, დახოცილ მოხ
Μονο ευχάριστη έκπληξη αποτέλεσε η αγορά αυτού του συγκεκριμένου βιβλίου.Εξαντλημενο εδω και καιρό το βρηκα σε παλαιοβιβλιοπωλείο της οδού Ιπποκρατους όπου μπορεί κανείς να βρει μικρούς "θησαυρούς".Ο Κουτςί στα πρώτα του βήματα στο συγκεκριμένο βιβλιο θα αποσπάσει το πρώτο του Μπούκερ και θα αποτελέσει το λογοτεχνικό του υπόβαθρο σε όλο το μετέπειτα θρίαμβο του,2ο βραβείο Μπουκερ το 1999 για την ατίμωση και Νόμπελ λογοτεχνίας 4 χρονια αργότερα.Το "Βίος και πολιτεια του Μαικλ Κ" αξιζει να διαβαστεί για τα πολλαπλά μηνύματα ανθρωπιάς,Ελευθερίας και ανθρώπινης αξιοπρέπειας.Το δε 2ο μέρος του βιβλίου ειναι απο τα ωραιότερα κείμενα που εχω διαβάσει ποτε..
Daug svarbiau ne karas, bet žmogaus būsena karo metu, kai gyvenama tiesiog laukimu, kai tavo vidinė laisvė kelia pavojų ir daug lengviau visus sugrūsti į stovyklas arba paskirti jų prižiūrėtojais.
Kol kiti knygos herojai tuo metu tiesiog laukė, kol galės pradėti gyventi, Maiklas atrado tai, kas jam leidžia gyventi, o ne tiesiog egzistuoti vykdant kitų įsakymus.
Ir tai supratęs, jis jau nebegalėjo to iškeisti į gyvenimą stovyklose, kur jo apleisti fiziniai poreikiai buvo patenkinti, bet ten nebuvo to, kas slypi anapus tvoros.
Tai knyga, kurią jau dabar norėčiau perskaityti dar kartą, bet šįkart lėčiau.
Here, also like with the unforgettable "Animal's People", the suffering and woe goes on and on and on, and that is why the decision for the brevity of the narrative is a wise one.
The reader takes as much as he or she can handle, because unlike "Animal's People" the community of Michael K is heartless; the man is by himself and perpetually alone.
The figure of the lonely smiling skeleton that is what becomes of Michael K (the name itself assures the reader that there are, as in legion, plenty of Michael Ks in the world, roaming like animals, transcending the bonds of physical life itself).
“He thought of himself not as something heavy that left tracks behind it, but if anything, as a speck upon the surface of an earth too deeply asleep to notice the scratch of ant feet, the rasp of butterfly teeth, the tumbling of dust”I cannot say that I really understood this book.
Michael is overall a decent fellow and I felt for him but not with him, simply because I lacked understanding.
All Michael wants is to exist and to be left alone completely.
Which is a hard thing to achieve when you are starving yourself but do not want to die.
"Una pietruzza dura, appena consapevole di quello che ha intorno, chiusa in se stessa e nella sua vita interiore." "La prima cosa che la levatrice notò di Michael K quando lo aiutò a uscire dal ventre materno fu che aveva il labbro leporino."Cosa significa vivere in mezzo a sguardi che si distolgono disgustati?Meglio stare soli dunque e bastare a se stessi.Un viaggio, tuttavia, cambia tutto.
Città del Capo diventa invivibile con l'infuriare della guerra e Michael costruisce un rudimentale carretto con cui trasportare Anna K, la madre malata, per raggiungere la campagna dove è nata.
La madre, la veglia, la fame, la libertà: tutto pian piano scompare.
I do not say that lightly, since it tends to be a hackneyed short-form that passes for literary criticism by those who read The Metamorphosis in high school, and haven't touched Kafka since then.
And then, it all goes awry as Michael K becomes some kind of Everyman crossed with Noble Savage, and the novel becomes allegory.
Of something, who knows what.I hate allegories.
And I hate allegories.)This novel made me feel dumb and also angry, and not sad all the way through which is what it should have done.2.5 stars.
لا يوجد تشابه في الأحداث، ولكنه فقط تشابه في البؤس، تشابه في تحول الإنسان إلى لا شيء في وجه أحداث عاصفة، في حالة مايكل ك العاصفة هي حرب أهلية مدمرة، حرب خيالية، تركت جنوب أفريقيا في حالة ما بعد الحرب، حيث الحكومة متحفزة ورجال العصابات يقومون بغزواتهم المدمرة من حين إلى حين، في هذه الظروف يتنقل مايكل ك، محاولاً الخروج بأمه من المدينة، وعندما تموت يحاول العيش متوحداً، ولكن يقبض عليه ويزج في معسكرات تأهيل، لا تفلح في تأهيله أبداً، مايكل ك حالة محيرة، للطبيب الذي حاول معالجته، ولنا نحن كقراء، ولكنه للأسف حالة مزمنة في الحروب والاضطرابات، هي حالة الإنسان البائس المسكين الذي لا يدري ماذا يفعل!
وكيف يدبر أموره وكل شيء قد انقلب، وصار العالم مكاناً عسيراً، لهذا عندما انتهت الرواية شعرت بالرعب من تخيل آلاف المايكل ك الذين يجوبون ويحاولون العيش في العراق وسوريا، وكل المناطق العربية المنكوبة.
Although it is risky to assign intent to the work of any author, this is the burning question I have taken from The Life and Times of Michael K – a book about a man who turns his back on an emaciated urban existence and seeks to return to the soil of his ancestors, carrying his dying mother on this back.On his way, Michael encounters numerous obstacles in a war-torn country – roadblocks, robbers and a detention camp, where one of the inmates has a truly novel perspective on the sinister motives underlying the charity of a regime that cares for its poorest by incarcerating them:“After that they started dropping pellets in the water and digging latrines and spraying for flies and bringing buckets of soup.
Overwhelming. A kind of book I wish to have written. Regarding part two of the novel, in my mind comes this question: how do the 'living' get to wish for a life of a 'ghost' - a skeleton. Is it, perhaps, because ghosts are free to roam the earth, while the living are kept within confinements of obligation and routine and the need to survive? A story to read again, and again.
Всъщност цялата книга е за Пътя (в двата му смисъла, да ме прощава Маккарти пак:))Той не може да живее в "лагера", не може да се примирява като другите, не иска да го спасяват.
Всъщност той нищо не иска.
- Където и да отида, хората само това чакат - да упражнят милосърдието си върху мен.
Докато истината е, че съм бил градинар - първо към Общината, после ей така, за себе си, а градинарите прекарват живота си с нос, забит в земята.""Може би щастието е да си вън от лагерите, вън от всички лагери взети заедно.
This is not a book for sarcasm and I've had to set down my pointy mirth stick (the one I normally use for the poking of the fun).
Michael K is living in a war zone.
This side of the book is not seen for K's perspective but from the perspective of a doctor (who at first I assumed was female but actually turns out to be male) who cannot understand why Michaels (as he has now been named, thus further muddying the waters of his true identity) is the way he is.
