https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/292314.Cider_With_Rosie
I asked my boyfriend if he had ever been physically aroused by a work of fiction while reading on a bus or train."Oh, many a time," he said."Really?
"But also because my blood is more sluggish and I have lost the vigour of youth.""When was the last time you got an erection while reading in a public place?" I asked eagerly."When reading your last email to me," he said without hesitation.
"I used to get an erection on the bus just looking at all the pretty schoolgirls going up and down the stairs.""You're a pervert," I said."But the first book that made me miss my stop because I was unable to leave my seat due to the large bulge in my trousers was Cider With Rosie.""By Laurie Lee?""Indeed.
When you are transported directly into the childhood of the writer, you know this is a good biography. When you smell the very air, when you feel that what the characters are smiling about is a scene of intense everyday hilarity, and when you want to visit THERE* (for just a second, just for the sake of both reader and writer, just for the sake of experience), well, then you know you are dealing with a superlative type of novel, which weaves truth with literature at an almost mythical level.*Bri
When you are transported directly into the childhood of the writer,  you know this is a good biography. When you smell the very air, when you feel that what the characters are smiling about is a scene of intense everyday hilarity, and when you want to visit THERE* (for just a second, just for the sake of both reader and writer, just for the sake of experience), well, then you know you are dealing with a superlative type of novel, which weaves truth with literature at an almost mythical level.*Britain after WWI
For me, that was a far superior read, looking at time he spent crossing Spain one year with little in the way of possessions.Cider With Rosie, considering he wrote this in his fifties, clearly shows he had a good mind, as at times you feel it's Laurie the child doing the writing, the youth and enlightenment to life's sharp realities brings a mixture of emotions, and truly showcases a by-gone era that captured the heart and soul of growing up in this specific period in time.
Before I started reading this book, I was warned that it is extremely boring, or as my colleague put it '200 pages of absolutely nothing going on, that it's a complete waste of paper and time as well.But after I'd read a few pages, I quickly realized that I was enjoying the book immensely.
I love the way he describes simple, everyday things, feelings, smells in a way that instantly makes you feel nostalgic about your childhood, that makes you wish to go out of town and settle in the countryside.
And how it makes you look on the times when you actually had enough time to spend with your family.
I enjoyed this little book, so to say I was somewhat disappointed sounds disingenuous, but I honestly thought this would be a 5 star read.
All the ingredients were there; classic, set in The Cotswolds area of England in the early twentieth century, the musings of an adult about his childhood days "when life was slow and oh so mellow" kind of thing.
But my imagination just didn't take flight to that place I wanted to go.
Parts of it were good, I especially liked the chapter on the grannies, only if the whole of it could have been like that?
Still a good read.
4 stars.
A chapter entitled "The Kitchen" which is the center of a home, and here we hear of his family, his mother and father and half-sisters, half-brothers and brothers.
His mother waited for years and years and years for his father's return.
Laurie Lee's mother and his half-sisters shaped what was to be “his home".
His mother's essence is not just described but felt too.
You leave the memoir knowing well not just Laurie Lee but his mother and his sisters too.
Laurie Lee draws contrasts vividly - then and now, summer and winter, quiet and bustle, presence and absence.
Laurie Lee narrates this, his own book.
3,5*Lo he encontrado bastante entrañable.
Además, no sigue un orden estrictamente cronológico, cosa que le da un aire como de viñetas que van recomponiendo a fragmentos su niñez y preadolescencia.Hay un par de capítulos sobre sus primeras experiencias con las chicas que me han resultado un poco molestos y en los que no puedo compartir el enfoque que ha querido darles el autor.Curiosamente cuando el libro me ha resultado más especial ha sido cuando el foco se dirigía a otras personas, como el capítulo que dedica a sus tíos, a su madre o el que va sobre dos ancianas rivales que viven una en el piso de arriba y otra en el piso de abajo.
Ese capítulo vale su peso en oro, el mejor del libro!
If anything, I would buy this book for the sole purpose of flipping it randomly to any page to be confronted by Laurie Lee's unforgettable mastery of descriptive detail.
Reading the verdant descriptions in this book is like biting into the largest, juiciest piece of fruit you've ever eaten.
However, reader be warned, don't fall in love like I did with the bucolic, English countryside of Lee's childhood because it does not exist anymore.
It is fortunate that Laurie Lee happened to be there to experience it and possessed the ability to document it with the vision of a poet before it disappeared.
There was a reassuring prevalence of Penguin books, resplendent in their orange cummerbunds, as I rummaged through a squished cardboard box in my attic.Then, delightfully, I spied a book that triggered a wave of nostalgia:"Cider With Bloody Rosie." I gasped (um, mine wasn't a version with 'bloody' in the title, just so you know)."Well, I never!
Cider With Bloody Rosie." (You see, I repeated the word 'bloody' yet again, such was my cock-a-hoopedness).
But perhaps my evidential nostalgia confirmed otherwise.
A beautifully written eulogy for a magical childhood and a lost world.
I'm so taken with Cider With Rosie, and the autobiographical trilogy more generally, that I have visited Slad, Laurie Lee's village of which he writes to memorably in this book, twice in 2018, and of course no visit to the Slad valley is complete without visiting the Slad village pub The Woolpack.http://thewoolpackslad.comIt's now something of a shrine to Laurie Lee.If you've yet to read Cider With Rosie then I am very jealous.5/5.
Laurie Lee's autobiographical trilogy...Cider With Rosie (1959)As I Walked Out One Midsummer Morning (1969)A Moment of War (1991)As I Walked Out One Midsummer Morning is probably my favourite book of the three however all are excellent.
Una gozada de principio a fin :3Se va directo a mis preferidos!!!
The intention was there to rape a Christian girl, probably because she is extremely innocent, and his descriptions of said girl aren't especially flattering.All of this, coupled with the aged look of "back in the day, things were wonderful, our family had pride in itself and we made a name for ourselves in the village, everyone knew the name we bore" blah blah blah - all of that, makes for a pretty sour ending to what I thought was going to be a quaint look at country life in the early 20th century.
When Laurie Lee was three years old his family moved to a small Cotswold village.
The book is an account of village life, where the people lived close to the land, during the decade after World War I.
The family enjoyed the simple things in life, but life also brought hardships.Laurie was hit with just about every childhood illness imaginable, and almost died several times.
Difficult times like these balance other parts of the story that probably present an idealized view of his childhood.The book ends with Laurie reaching adolescence and discovering girls.
One of such looming hardships that impeded my ongoing reading toward fluency with accurate understanding was that, I recall, his ways of writing dialogues by abbreviating them as spoken English with its grammar unfamiliar to me; however, looking at the bright side, I thought it was how he tried to transliterate them to be as close as those spoken in rural England, for example:''Oo did it?' I yelled.'Nobody, silly.
Please note the capital M as we can see in this memorable writing when he always mentions her fondly (rarely found in other memoirs I read), for example: "...
19), "..., my Mother disappeared to visit my father." (p.
This is a book of a slice social history.We see a life set around the family kitchen, early school years,family and friends but in particular the various seasons of nature.'Cider With Rosie' is a tale of the author's early life growing up within a large family, without a real father figure influence,in a Cotswold village in and around the 1920s and is told from the standpoint of a child.
We see a life set around the family kitchen, early school years,family and friends but in particular the various seasons.Laurie Lee was a poet and a screen-writer as well as a novelist and this shines through in his choice of language.
But it is not only Lee’s coming of age, it is also that of the village, as the rural backwater changes rapidly, losing many of its traditional village ways and gaining things such as motor vehicles.The first time I read it, I was quite young and slightly confused as it was the first book I read that was not really chronological, but instead told the story grouped by overlapping themes, such as seasons, school, grannies (not blood ones) and festivals.
It had marvelous potential that it dropped just short of reaching.There is a story about two “grannies” who live next door to the Lee family, rivals and grudging enemies, their story made me think of two elderly women I knew when I was a child myself.Speaking of Granny Trill he says, ”although she had a clock, she kept it simply for the tick, its hands having dropped off years ago.
These stories were marvelous written and poignant and gave me a true sense of the life in this small village before the advent of machinery and automobiles opened it to the greater world.On the other hand, there are long passages about church festivals and group outings that, while interesting, seem to plod on past their necessity.
The war reaches its end and the village celebrates; the family lives in hope of seeing their father again now it has ended.
I had thought such trees to be as old as the earth, I never dreamed that a man could make them.Lee is such a lyrical author, writing about this tiny piece of England that was forever changed after the First World War. It is not shown through rose tinted glasses; this was tough at times, death was a frequent occurrence in his family and with neighbours and other villagers.
This is a highly atmospheric lyrically written memoire of a childhood in rural England in the 1920s. One of seven children raised by a slightly eccentric mother in relative poverty, this could have been a story of physical and psychic deprivation. Rather, the author leaves the reader nostalgic for a simpler, more contented time.
I was looking forward to reading this memoir, the first in a three-part series.
I was especially looking forward to it since this part of the series was based in one of my favorite places in England – the Cotswolds.
Unfortunately, this book was so dry and boring.
I didn’t care for the writing style.
Towards the end, I really didn’t like how he and his friends tried to rape a mentally handicapped girl.
What bothered me especially was a seeming lack of shame and remorse.
Other than that, nothing much happens, given the awful attempted rape, that’s a good thing.
Perhaps it is a sepia-toned portrait, made larger than life by a vivid imagination -- but whatever, it felt like a living, breathing sort of story to me.The book opens with a startling, memorable image: "I was set down from the carrier's cart at the age of three; and there with a sense of bewilderment and terror my life in the village began." Laurie Lee and his sprawling family moved to the tiny village of Slad, Gloucestershire just before the end of the first World War. They lived -- 8 children, and one fanciful and haphazard mother -- in an old stone house which regularly flooded.
3.5 stars - I thought I would adore this memoir, and parts of it were enthralling.
I can't pinpoint what made those particular parts less interesting to me, but it was a small enough issue that I will read the second book of the trilogy at some point.
I liked Laurie and his tales better once he got a little older, so the second half of the book was best for me.
I loved his description of starting school since it so accurately showed the strange expectations that some children have about what school will actually be like.
I read this book a great many years ago and remembered it with affection. I found it to be just as delightful the second time around. Lee's writing is lyrical and reminiscent of Dylan Thomas in many places. He recalls a way of life in his Cotswold village which has gone forever, and a family of full and half siblings revolving around their loving, disorganised mother.Very beautiful, and now of course I want to read his other books again.
He tells it all but never loses his respect for any of the inhabitants, even at their most villainous, he narrates their history with compassion and mild regret.
His narrative captures the passing of time, the slow encroachment of city life and innovation that will ultimately kill that old village way of life that encapsulated them all, from the Squire down to the struggling newborn.
Not sure how it got on my list last week, but today I'm prioritizing it because Michael Perry, in one of his WSJ columns, mentioned that he loved hearing his wife read it aloud to him, even though he doesn't like being read to (which he does admit is ironic in several ways).
(It's a reflex now, sadly.) While I was reading Cider With Rosie, my mental star level fluctuated between 3 and 5 stars, and I thought I would end up giving it 4; but as I am thinking about it now, about 5 hours after finishing, I don't feel compelled to give it much more than 3.It took a while for me to get into the book.
As with most books of this type, there's no cohesive storyline, but each chapter (or section) has a theme it explored.
But I was good at art, and I LOVED the cover.
The scratchy pen and ink illustration on the cover of the original publication was brilliant, and encouraged me to open the pages and read.
I would now find life very lonely without books.In my professional career, 21 years a College Principal, I taught Art and Design.
Apart from the cover, the book has many beautiful pen and ink illustrations, each one capturing the text so beautifully.
I would read the book to 18 year old students and always they were captivated by it.
This is not a fast-paced adventure book but it does create a beautiful picture of quiet country lanes, honeysuckle on the breeze and both the wonders and tragedies of living so far out in a world controlled solely by the forces of nature.It's a lovely portrait of childhood innocence and growing up, after reading it I got a desperate urge to visit the Cotswolds.
that's the feeling you get about the setting of the novel, like you've crawled into a secret world.
. These children were fed anyhow, poorly dressed, hardly ever went anywhere, obtained such scraps of education as they could pick up, and there in their remote, old-fashioned village, might almost have been living in the Middle Ages.
."Priestley's comment is:"It is this dimension in depth, with its sense of time and feeling for what is symbolical, that gives such passages as this, of which there are scores in these chapters, their beauty, their poignancy, their magic."And in that last comment, I think Priestley has isolated the spiritual spring that makes this book so memorable.
A wonderful memoir about a post WWI childhood spent in an old English cottage in often appalling conditions.
You could put your head in it, and open your eyes, and see the sides of the bucket buckle, and hear your caught breath roar, and work your mouth like a fish, and smell the lime from the ground.
Things which seemed so traumatic at the time like a village concert where Mr Lee had to perform as a child had me laughing in shared remembrance of my own childhood terrors at similar events.
