https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11301.Horton_Hatches_the_Egg
They say an elephant's word is the most trustworthy word in the world.Horton, our gigantic animal, agrees to hatch the lazy bird's egg. Zany it might seem but he manages to prop himself up and come what may, does not leave the fort.Not until the bird will return.Only that the bird does not return until very long. Until it's too late and a new mutated being is born.Dr. Seuss and his imaginations run at a berserk pace.
Oooh! I love this book 100%! I love the writing and the rhyming, I love the picture graphics, I love the story,and I love how it gives you a moral lesson. And I sure am gonna read this over and over to my cute little boy!^^ Many thanks to Anne,who inspired me to read this and who is celebrating her birthday tomorrow( October 26)! HAPPY BIRTHDAY,my friend! Miss you,sweetie!^^[image error]
This is my favorite story of Dr. Seuss because it teaches young readers and reminds adults to be true to one's word. A very simple lesson to learn or to keep in mind, but the impact of not remembering is tremendous.
In Horton Hatches the Egg, this lazy bird has got nothing to think about except how to plan and enjoy the vacations and holidays!
So she finds someone who can do hatching for her, and then our immense, mighty, kind and faithful elephant, Horton comes into picture and agrees to help her go on holidays, by sitting on her egg on the top of a tree.He bears all the hateful comments and mockery of other animals.
Will he hatch the eggs as the title says?That we we will find out Archit, on our next read.
It's impossible for me to have a favorite Dr. Seuss book, but this one gives some stiff competition.
Whenever I read it to my nursery school English classes, I ask the kids to whom the egg ultimately belongs right before the baby hatches.
The younger kids in the class (2 to 3 years old) almost always say the egg belongs to the bird because eggs belong with birds.
The older kids (4 to 5) say the egg belongs to the elephant because he took care of it.
An interesting revelation as to how kids approach the world at different stages as they try to make sense of it.
Muchas reseñas hablan mal de Mayzie por haber abandonado su huevo ("es egoísta, irresponsable"), pero NADIE menciona a los tres humanos que apuntaron a Horton con escopetas, cortaron el árbol donde se encontraba, lo encerraron en una jaula, lo sometieron a semanas de navegación y luego lo vendieron a un circo... por diversión!!! ¿Dónde está el reproche de estas acciones? ¿Dónde están las consecuencias?Lindas rimas y dibujos, pero me molesta que el mensaje refleje que está mal renunciar a una responsabilidad pero que no importa dañar intencionalmente a otro ser vivo.
I am currently reading a lot of Dr. Seus books. They enjoyed this book."Everyone laughs when Horton the Elephant offers to sit on Mayzie bird's egg while she goes on holiday. Horton's kindness and faithfulness are sorely tested when he, and the egg, are kidnapped and sold to a circus - but his reward for being faithful is more wonderful than he could ever have dreamed!"
"Horton Hatches the Egg" is one of Dr. Seuss' most memorable classics as it stars everyone's favorite elephant, Horton!
Read the story to find out!Dr. Seuss had done a great job at both illustrating and writing this book.
But, don't worry, Mayzie's irresponsible actions are shown in a negative light and the story strongly encourages children to be more responsible and to not follow Mayzie's example of irresponsibility."Horton Hatches the Egg" is truly a memorable classic about the importance of being loyal and keeping your promise to people and this book will easily be an instant hit for children everywhere.
"Wow, What a cute poem  with intense meaning. I loved it, I loved it. Great to be reading."
Read to a classroom of first gradersThe kids knew all about "Horton Hears a Who" but they didn't know "Horton Hatches the Egg".
Maisy talks Horton the Elephant into sitting on her egg because it's just too much work.
Meanwhile, Horton sits on her egg for 51 weeks because, "I meant what a said and I said what I meant, an elephant's faithful 100 percent".
The kids love that no matter what happens, Horton doesn't leave his egg.
They also got really angry when Maisy tried to take the egg back as it began to hatch!
One of Dr Seuss's earliest books, and for me, his all-time best. I adore Horton! His determined goodness and those wonderful expressions on his dear face. I still read this several times a year and never fail to be pleased that things work out well for Horton in the end. And clearly Dr Seuss was ahead of his time; as it turns out, research into their lives in the wild reveals that elephants are indeed faithful (one hundred percent).
Cute and beautiful story that will teach the children to be a faithful person, just like Horton. Love it ♥
Horton Hatches the Egg, Dr. Seussعنوان: فیل فداکار؛ نوشته سیوس؛ مترجم: فریبا عرفانی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، شب پره، 1383، 29 ص ، مصور، شابک: 9649448764؛ موضوع: شعر کودکانعنوان: هورتون جوجه از تخم درمی آورد؛ اثر: زیوس (سیوس)؛ مترجم: رضی هیرمندی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، افق، کتابهای بنفشه، 1383، 64 ص ، مصور رنگی، شابک: 9643692590؛ موضوع: شعر کودکان، داستانهای حیوانات، داستانهای تخیلی، داستانهای ماجرایی
Cute story in rhyme, how Horton the elephant sit on the egg :)
A fun and quirky typical Dr. Seuss book, focusing on themes of determination and sticking to one’s word.
Dr. Seuss's kindly elephant is persuaded to sit on an egg while its mother, the good-for-nothing bird lazy Maysie, takes a break.
I will use this book in my classroom when we talk about poetry, Dr. Seuss, and many vocabulary words.
When talking about poetry and rhyme I will discuss about the patterns that Dr. Seuss's use, ex.
One vocabulary word that I would like to talk about in this book would be 'faithful'.
I believe that Horton shows the read exactly what that word means.
I will use this book in my classroom.
How can one not like Dr Seuss?In this typically zany tale, Horton the elephant agrees to look after lazy Mayzie's egg and once Horton has committed to a task, he sticks to it - come what may.Once Mayzie has persuaded Horton to sit on the egg in the nest at the top of the tree, she departs for a holiday in Palm Beach where she is pictured soaking up the sun, having a wonderful rest and determined never to go back to her nest.So that leaves Horton trying to overcome all obstacles, including some hunters who wish to shoot him down.
Mayzie, a very lazy bird persuades Horton, an elephant, to sit on her egg to help her hatch it, while she takes a well earned rest .
I loved the fact that Dr. Seuss makes the reader believe that elephants can climb trees, a nest can hold an elephants weight and an egg won’t break when they sit on it!!
Horton grows very attached to this precious egg but then finds himself face to face with Mayzie, who wants her egg back , however when the egg hatches out comes an elephant bird.
A book with excellent verses you will enjoy reading out.
I love this book. It is an all time favorite for me. This book conveys the importance of integratiy if the face of adversity. This book shows that different isn't bad and despite the challenge of being or doing something that is outside the relms of what is expected that the result of doing this with integrity and dilligence should result in the new beginings of acceptance. It should be...It should be..... It should be like that....but it is classified as a children's story.
On the eve of the 8th month since my father's death, my partner read this book aloud to our 12-week-old daughter.
I remember every month and the day goes by very slowly.I can still recite the intro to this book as I did with my dad when I was a kid.
He would prompt me with the first line, and off I would go - "I'm tired and I'm bored, and I've got kinks in my legs!" We would do this until I thought I was too old, too cool, too annoyed by my father.Now, I just wish he could read it aloud to his granddaughter, just once.
I believe Dr. Seuss is one of the best ways of introducing poetry to children and the funny part is that kids do not realize they are reading poetry or that they are actually learning something through a children's book.
I really believe that adults should read Dr. Seuss more often regardless if they have kids or not.We are introduced to the famous Horton the Elephant.
One day while cruising the jungle, he meets a female bird name Mayzie who has recently just laid an egg but practically does not want to take care of it so she persuades Horton to take care of for a few hours so she may rest.
I'm finally getting to the source of those quotes I've been hearing all my life!"I meant what I saidAnd I said what I meant…An elephant's faithfulOne hundred per cent."Seuss does a great job telling this story with the rhymes flowing easily, making it a comfortable read about perseverance and holding to one's promise, no matter what with the blossom of fulfillment at the end.The CharactersHorton is a white elephant who cares.Mayzie is quite the lazy mama bird.
Circus people who do a good thing.The Cover and TitleThe cover has a bright green background with a white elephant perching on an orange nest set in the crook of a tree which had to be propped up.
This is a lovely book by Dr. Seuss.Wanting to take a break, the lazy bird, Maysie convinces Horton to sit on her egg and wait for it to hatch.
Old Horton the Elephant thinks he's a bird!'"), and is even shot at by hunters!
Horton shows how much of a patient character he is, and he is rewarded in the end by the unexpected birth of an elephant-bird.I am a real fan of Dr Seuss, so I enjoyed this story very much.
Horton Hatches the Egg is also a very enjoyable book for children to read individually or for a teacher to read aloud to their class.
As an adoptive mom, I found the charge that the birth-mother was lazy and greedy difficult to stomach.
In this case Maysie completely abandoned the egg to someone with no idea if it was a good caregiver and then takes off.
I could see my son's questions forming as we read it: why would she abandon her egg?
Why couldn't she take care of the egg?
While Horton's efforts and trials and feeling like we were constantly on display to be judged are certainly a reminder of the parade of work we went through to complete our adoption, in the end this was just painful.
The cover is a bold green with a white Horton standing out.
The thick black lines from the illustrations and the cover were also a traditional Seuss style.
The illustrations are teal and white, with accents of red.
A fair amount of text covers a few of the pages, but others have only a few sentences on it.
The bird did not want to come back from vacation and did not want to take the egg back at all until the hard, boring work was done.
In the end Horton was rewarded with his hard work and loyalty.
"You've nothing to do and I do need a rest.Would YOU like to sit on the egg in my nest?"Esta é a história do ovo de um pássaro chamado Mayzie, que como muitas mãe está aborrecida de tomar conta do seu filho, que ainda não nasceu.
Determinada a ir de férias para Palm Beach, Mayzie namorisca com Horton, um elefante simpático, que após os seus pedidos insistentes, toma o seu lugar em cima do pequeno ovo.
Apesar da difícil tarefa e das dificuldades sentidas, desde o tempo, aos animais curiosos e caçadores, Horton não abandona o ovo durante 51 semanas!"An elephant's faithfulOne hundred per cent!"No final, por acaso, a mãe reencontra o seu ovo, que já há muito tinha esquecido.
He sits there through all sorts of weather, gets laughed at by the other animals, survives being shot at by hunters, and then gets transported by cart and boat only to be sold to a circus (whilst all this time remaining on top of the egg on the tree).During all of his sufferings, lazy Mayzie is relaxing on a beach oblivious to the hardships poor Horton is going through.
It is at this point the two characters meet again and some rather unexpected events unfurl.A very enjoyable book for children to read individually or to read aloud to your class.
Horton the elephant, ever helpful, agrees to watch Mayzie the lazy bird's egg while she stretches her wings.
Old Mayzie the lazy bird is back to claim what's not rightfully hers anymore, especially considering that what emerges from the egg is as much of an elephant as it is a bird!Great read aloud, I especially like reading it to kids in Dayton, Ohio as it's mentioned in text.
Horton is just such a great character and though I love both books quite a lot, I think this one is my favorite Horton tale of all (but maybe it's because I read it first).
Permits vocal theatrics to your heart's content (at least the way I read it--from the flighty, high-pitched female voice of Mazy the lazy bird, to the derisive hoots of Horton's jungle "friends," to the gut-wrenching, depressed (or sea-sick!--therefore, about to vomit) groans of faithful Horton, to the vengeful, accusatory and wickedly self-righteous Mazy when it appears that faithful Horton is about to receive a prize that he had earned through his excruciating faithfulness (while Mazy was having the time of her life in far-flung vacation resorts), to the wild, celebratory cheers of the circus crowds who "saw something new" .
Not having the energetic outlet of reading it out loud, my eyes have just started spilling tears as I relive the memories!
Like any self-respecting librarian mom, I ended up on the couch at a kid's birthday party reading this book. Which just goes to show that parenthood isn't that different from regular adulthood, just the kind of party and reading material changes. Anyway, I had totally forgotten how great Horton is. I remembered about him hearing a Who, but I had forgotten that he ALSO hatched an egg, because he meant what he said and he said what he meant. Elephants, even in fiction, continue to get my vote for Best Animal.
