https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76961.Mystery_of_the_Flying_Express
The Good: What this series usually does well, it continues to do well here. A great mystery, plenty of action and suspense...all in all, great fun, except...The Bad: This book deals with horoscopes, which may offend discerning readers, particularly those who believe that "reading the stars" is sinful. That detail kept this from being as good as it could have been.Conclusion: What can I say about this series that I haven't already said? Readers probably will already know whether or not they'll like this book without reading my review. Just keep in mind the negative aspect mentioned above.
I thought this was a very exciting book with a lot of action! The book has many plot twists and it was pretty hard to find out who the criminals were! This book is great for all mystery lovers of all ages.
I loved this book!! I think it is full of adventure! It is so hard to figure out who the bad guy is with all the plot twists and mystery!!
Yet another banger of a mystery book!
Another Hardy Boys book. I don't know if it was different in the 60's but these boys get kidnapped all the time. Does it not count as a kidnapping if you escape? Because all the characters in this book don't think it's a big deal to get kidnapped three or four times in a two week period. Their parents hardly bat an eye at any kidnapping that doesn't last more than 24 hrs.
This is the hydrofoil version of this story.
Apparently these stories have been substantially re-written.
I would have preferred to see the original story, as I am certain that would have more charm.
The idea of two real estate developers fighting it out for business is very interesting, as is the way the characters in this story are hard to pin down.
Are the people the Hardys meet trustworthy, or are they deceitful?
The reader has to pick out the clues, and there are very few real clues, only inferences.
Okay, so the revised version of this book isn't good. But the original - oh man, you gotta read the original. The original Mystery of the Flying Express is my favorite Hardy Boys book of all time and it's seriously so fun. It's got everything! Espionage, intrigue, a spy school, government involvement, a fancy train. Absolutely one of the best Hardy Boys stories ever.
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
Another fine adventure-mystery with Frank and Joe. Even their girlfriends Callie and Iola get to contribute more than picnic baskets and their pretty faces this time.
Way better than book 19. As Hardy Boys books go, interesting, some good twists. A little too much too fast at the end. But overall, enjoyable.
Frank and Joe Hardy were sitting in their small cottage when they heard a tow truck outside.
So, when Frank and Joe Hardy went back to their cabin they saw that there was a person waiting for them he pulled up a gun and said "Don't move!".
Frank and Joe both looked at them selves.
My thoughts on this book were very well.
This book is for mystery lovers.
This book is for solving cases and finding out were a boat went.
The boat was so popular the police department got their top's guys on the case.
They called Frank and Joe Hardy.
I really enjoyed reading a book where siblings worked together to accomplish something good.
No sibling rivalry, none of the "go away me and my friends are doing this." And the care and respect they show towards their parents and other adults in their life is simply remarkable.
Good sound examples overall.Of course my copy is from the 1940's so there may be some differences between my copy and the newer updated versions.
Anyway, although its not my typical reading fare I really did enjoy it and as long as there are old copies of this series around I wouldn't mind having them in my library.
Okay, this is a vintage series for kids. I haven't read many Hardy Boys books. While the story was entertaining, the reader must suspend belief that the boys' father, a world renowned detective, would send his teenaged sons across the country looking for a place that trains foreign spies. The Flying Express is a passenger train that goes from east to west every day. It was also decidedly odd how the spies used the train to send secret messages back and forth. Add a missing linguist to the mix and you have one strange mystery.
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.The two boys live in the fictional city of Bayport (on Barmet Bay) with their famous father, Fenton Hardy, a private detective formerly with the New York Police Department, their mother Laura Hardy (erroneously called Mildred in The Flying Express), and their Aunt Gertrude, a character often used for comic relief.
I started reading many of the Hardy Boys's mysterious adventures on books of any kind and enjoying them. So the latest one I got for my birthday and finished, Mystery of the Flying Express, it is rather fun to spend time enjoying what I like. This one talks about the boys' adventure to catch a jewel thief on a hot pursuit.
Hardy boys book series has been one of my favorites since I was a kid. The mystery of the flying express is my favorite out of the bunch. I like how as they are trying to find the missing hydrofoil they keep running into danger. It kept me interested throughout the book.
Recommended to me by my 8yo grandson. It has been a long time since I have read a Hardy Boys book.Definitely written for young boys who can more easily suspend disbelief. Best part was imagining my grandsons reading the book.
I did not complete this book, only the first chapter and a half but I had a strong objection to the Horriscopes in it. It seemed like while Frank and Joe didn't believe in them, they still were right, and I didn't like that at all.
read when I was 10 through 13
Very good Hardy Boys mystery. Lots of action - nonstop.
Excellent series for young readers - highly recommended. I read these books when I was 10 - 15 years of age.
An Average Hardy Boys book. Not the best, not the worst. Strains believeability at times.
This story changed from a train heading West, including a missing linguist.
Sexist. Annoying. Misogynistic. And repetitive. I would choose Nancy Drew any day.
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
Hardy Boys 20: Mystery of the Flying Express (Hardy Boys) by Franklin W. Dixon (1941)
I loved it. 1. I love mysteries.2. I like the Hardy Boys series. 3. I recomend you reading it!
My book has the same cover as shown in this listing but was published in 1977.
Dixon, Franklin W.
In which cross-dressing Chet fights a cross-dressing crook, pseudoscience saves the day, and the end is incredibly ominous.
