https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1066979.Scarface
It actually opens with Tony, a young nobody, killing a gang leader for his dame...The book is about the rise of Tony through the ranks of gangsters in post-world war I Chicago, with Prohibition and lots of homemade alcohol and machine guns.Tony starts off as a nobody, but after bumping off a gang leader to steal is girlfriend, he joins up with another mob, rising up in the ranks till an incident with the chief detective in the police forces him to flee Chicago and join the Army to fight in the war.
Cars described seem more modern than I realized they were at that time, and the language feels like it fits old-time gangsters.
Of course this doesn't go over well with big Al, and what follows quickly shows Tony's potential as a future mob leader.This is a short book that documents the rise of "Scarface Tony", a name he receives after getting a long scar on his face in the war.
He quickly pulls away from the pack of other gangsters and soon finds himself heading his own gang following the retirement of the former leader.
Firstly, don't let yourself be lead by the cover! Brian de Palma's 1983 film starring (hot hot hot) Al Pacino has almost nothing to do with this novel. The book character Scarface ressembles a great deal more Al Capone's profile, a mobster building his empire by ilicit substances and alcohol during the Great Depression. Very interesting and definitively worth reading, though.
The silliness of this book does not quite manage to rescue it from mediocrity. The Brian de Palma movie, based somewhat loosely on the book, (which is loosely based on the life of Al Capone) is much better.
Having not seen the film Scarface I can judge this novel on the story alone.
I have to say I enjoyed Scarface, it is a gritty gangster drama which keeps the pages turning.
Scarface follows the story of Tony Guarino, a small time gangster who becomes the head of a powerful criminal organisation.
After going to fight in World War I Tony returns to his home and finds he has been declared dead.
What follows in the life of Tony Guarino and his criminal empire.
A good story, easy to read and enough action to keep the pages turning.
Scarface (1930) This fairly straight forward gangster story is the basis of the 1930 Howard Hawks gangster film and it reads a lot like Little Caesar (1929), which was published a year earlier.
Trail may or may not have read Burnett’s piece, but it’s conceivable that two separate writers could have come up with this straight-line narrative.
A lot of the elements of the Ben Hecht script are in this novel, but they are better written in the movie.
This does grant Tony Guarino some dignity and as in most tragedies, it is his character strengths that destroy him.
Glad I read it.
Published in 1930, the year of its author's untimely death (Armitage Trail was a pseudonym for Maurice Coons), Scarface was the inspiration for the (far better) 1932 Howard Hawks film of the same title, which starred Paul Muni.
Loosely based on the life of gangster Al Capone, Scarface is meant to be a ripped-from-the-headlines tale of greed and violence on the streets of prohibition-era Chicago.
Which is it, Mr. Coons?
I grieve for Coons, who died of a heart attack at only 28, but this is not good writing.
A fast paced book that is definitely gripping with timely dramatic events in the gang world, revolving around 'Tony' the main character. the author exploits the anti-hero sentiment with Tony, which would've been a new concept in storytelling during the 1920's era. I really enjoyed the book for it's context rather than the actual story-line.
The movie is one of my alltime favourites!
Some of the old books are so much better than the new . Good quick read
Ο Χάουαρντ Χοκς είναι ο σκηνοθέτης της γνωστής νουάρ ταινίας του 1932 και το βιβλίο αυτό γράφηκε από τον Χάουαρντ Χοκς με βάση την ταινία αυτή.
Στο βιβλίο βλέπουμε πως από απλός σωματοφύλακας ενός γκάνγκστερ έγινε μεγάλος και τρανός, βγάζοντας από την μέση πολλούς ανθρώπους και κάνοντας διάφορες βρομοδουλειές, όπως λαθρεμπόριο ποτών και όπλων.
Το βιβλίο έδειχνε τα χρονάκια του, οι σκηνές δράσης μου φάνηκαν κάπως άνευρες, η εξέλιξη της ιστορίας μάλλον αναμενόμενη δίχως εκπλήξεις και αλλαγές στην πλοκή, αλλά η γραφή ήταν αρκετά καλή, με κάποιες ωραίες ατάκες και προτάσεις.
Μπορείτε κάλλιστα να δείτε την ταινία του Ντε Πάλμα, την οποία έχω στην ταινιοθήκη μου αλλά δεν έχω προκόψει ακόμα να την δω.
The pulpy writing style makes for some great action setpieces and a nice sense of gangster atmosphere, but that's about all I enjoyed in the book.
It's not awful, it's just a rushed bit of cheap lit that never takes a minute to make me care, and even the tragic sweeps of the climax ring hollow because, like everything, they just come out of nowhere instead of being escalating events woven into the story.I'm sure fans of pulp and gangster lit will enjoy it better than I did, but I just didn't connect with the book on any level.
Very different from the movies it supposedly inspired. As you read along, you realise how different it is, but almost halfway through the book, you start spotting the similarities with the Paul Muni film and chuckle to yourself. Also makes you wonder at the genius of Ben Hecht, who took some of the characters and plot points and did his own thing on the screenplay. A very compelling book. It's a pity Armitage Trail had to go so young. He surely would have produced some great work over the years.
I'm not sure if the novel was gritty for a gangster novel. Nothing surprised me or had me gripping the chair for suspense. While reading I also thought the clichés were so awful. One line that really hated was "get a dose of their own medicine". I didn't think it was a gangster line, not that I knew what would sound gangster. But that surely didn't seem a good one. The author also had to recap every characteristics/traits of every character every time they get reintroduced or thought of which I thought was really unnecessary.
I read this book many years ago, but I remember clearly how it disappointed me. To this day it is one of the worst books I ever read.. the story would be interesting if the author had any style at all, but the whole narrative is just bland and has about the same verve and originality of a wikipedia entry, also, the author seems to be unable to use synonyms and therefore keeps using the same expression to describe the actions and attitude of the protagonist. Simply awful.
This novel is...really quite basic. There is little to no imagination to the narration, and the plot is predictable. However, that latter point is probably due to the movies based on it being so well-known.
A very good crime book! I cant compare it with Mario Puzo though, but its of a more crime than mario puzos books and in a much quicker tempo. Things happening in each page of the book, it keeps you interested in the whole book. 4 stars because of the comparison of similar type of books.
A book that closely reminds you of Godfather.Tony Guarino (Camonte) had risen from vassal to a czar.The gang wars and the blood spilling remains predictable yet notoriously worded.Keeps you glued and gives a rush of blood as you turn every leaf of the book.Read on :)
I'd always believed no crime novel can ever come close to challenging Mario Puzo's The Godfather-I. But scarface comes quite close. The details and depth of the notions, the crime organizations descriptions, loved it. One can't help but emphatize with the protagonist. Loved it.
strictly mob
Best movie of all time, how about the book?
Bought: December 31, 2013Location: Booksale (Megamall)Price: P125
Liked it. But not my subject.
