https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/176892.The_Elvenbane
I see that many really enjoyed this book and that many others found it, "not bad".
When I met the Dragons I believe that the story is again supposed to draw us in and make us care about the participants.
I just never did.I'm sorry, but I just didn't care.I got through about 6 or 7 chapters and finally, as the saying goes, "laid it by".Please if this is your taste enjoy but I just don't.
The narrator's voice was (to me) staid and slow and I found the story (horror death and all) just a bit slow.
You won't find much in the way of action (more on that later), but this story is held together by its protagonists and their relationships with others.At its core, Elvenbane is a tale of progress vs.
That story is told unromantically -- this is even admitted halfway through -- and that makes the characters feel all the more real.
I was quite dismayed, upon reaching the halfway point, to realize that there wasn't enough book for the premise to be concluded sufficiently by the end.
In the end, it is those heroes who will carry on the fight in the next book, and I look forward to seeing what happens next.
I first read this series when I was 13 or 14 and I loved it!
That sounds mean, but she's written so many books that seem to run together and this series definitely stands on it's own.
All the little romances are so much more interesting than I'd first thought because I'd forgotten that almost all of the main characters are related to each other in some way!
I remember liking Mero more than I did this time around.
:/ And this time I really liked Valyn.
I can't wait to read the next one and see what's up!
In The Elvenbane, a young fiery halfblood (half elven, half human) girl named Shana, is raised by a Kin of dragons.
A rare mystery, Shana is about to be sold in a slave auction when she is rescued by disguised halfbloods who take her to a Citadel where wizards live in secrecy.
Yet fate intercedes and soon the most diabolical of elven Lord’s, and presumably Shana’s father, discovers the location of the hidden city and Shana and her friends must fight for their lives.Slow to build and exhaustively descriptive, The Elvenbane is 566 pages of introduction to the next book in the sequel.
Originally posted here as part of the 30 Day Book Challenge.Heh.
The topic for today makes me laugh.
A Book I've Read More Than Once More than once?
At least 10, but I think more.I owned this one, and since my small town library was never open more than 2 days a week during the summer, I did A LOT of re-reading.Cruel elves, shape-shifting dragons, half-bloods, slavery, bicorns - man, this book had it all.I last re-read it...probably 10 years ago?
When I found out that there was FINALLY A THIRD BOOK.Did I still love it?Hell yes.Sadly, though, there won't ever be a fourth book.
I rolled my eyes multiple times at the antics of the adolescents, chalking their behavior down to young adult fiction norms.
However, when the adults behaved with even less maturity or even common sense than the youths in their care, I cringed and about gave up reading further.
I thought young adult fantasy would be similar to a fable, or a similar story type that teaches a moral or other shows an example of a character trait to strive after.
Aasne Vigesaa read this Brilliance Audio production and did a fine job, only using a couple of strange pronunciations of words a couple of times (most notably 'ubiquitous' which only appeared once in the novel).
Andre Norton, Mercedes Lackey – The Elvenbane (Halfblood Chronicles #1)
convincingly created a whole new world for the reader with a complicated hierarchy and fascinating gender dynamics. sexy, traumatic, enchanting, and most definitely Epic!
The authors took a lot of time to build this world and explain the dynamics between the races within it, and I found myself devouring the pages, eager to learn as much as I could.
You see, the authors took a couple of weird tangents – ones I enjoyed reading, but I couldn’t figure out how they advance the plot or developed character.
Now, I love tangents as much is the next girl, but to have them loaded near the end of the book?
If you already read a ton of fantasy/dragon books, I’d recommend this one.
I read overwhelmingly good reviews on this book and heard nothing but positive things about this writing duo.
Please trust in the fact that I read enough of the novel to write this review.
This is truly a testament to the fact that I was not a fan of the writing style.In conclusion I think this book had great promise, a good premise and some good moments early on.
It truly shocks me to read all of the stellar reviews on this novel.
A very interesting book that fills a kind of gap in my reading of fantasy books from its time (early 90s).
I'm not sure why I never opened it -- I think I may have been put off by its cover, which, being a Boris, is gorgeous, but repelling at the same time, with its rather grotesque dragon and token torn-clothed maiden.
There are parts of this I loved, and the world lingers in my mind after the book is done -- always the best sign for me -- but 'round about two thirds of the way through the plot just goes berserk, leaping forward, skipping key foreshadowed moments, setting up things and letting them go.
It certainly passed the "can you tell who's speaking without attribution" test - everyone was unique in their own way.
Plot-wise, I thought this book had a huge amount of potential.
It was the execution where this book fell flat.
Another book where characters were force fit into plot elements, despite the characters themselves being strong.
And then the final climax of the book just fell flat.
In the end, the major protagonist/antagonist conflict didn't even really happen - a minor protagonist defeated the major antagonist in a quick, almost effortless way.
My only real complaint is that after Andre Norton passed away, Mercedes Lackey opted not to finish the fourth and final book. The three released were quite good and worth the read though.
Using the device of fading to black, the narrative will simply peter out when things get too exciting.Breathe easy as you read of protagonist Shana's mysterious half-elf (helf?) powers, knowing she will use them only to throw the occasional rock, or perhaps kill a deer.
There may be mind-reading, but it's just like regular dialogue, just using colons instead of quotation marks, so things don't get too crazy!There comes a point when Shana is cornered by an elf who may be friend or foe, who demands that he join her.
Bullies E V E R Y W H E R ESo if you want to read something where you are sure to be distracted by other things, check out The Elvenbane.
Което явно лека-полека ще се случи, макар че горкото момиче попада все на черните овце от всяко видово стадо и се сблъсква с космически количества предателства и загуби, като за нейна чест тя ги приема достатъчно мъжки, за да продължи да си върши предназначението, въпреки всичките си лични съмнения и терзания.И да, това е женска книга, та очаквайте наред с магически битки и кървища, също така и много размисли, тръшкания, горест , сълзи, отхвърляне, и въобще цялата мирова скръб на света , изливаща се от предимно женски героини, на които им се налага да обуят мъжките гащи, в опит да си спасят меките части или да докажат важността на пола си.
I would have given this 1 star, but there were some awesome ideas in this book. Alien elves and dragons? Awesome. Shape shifting and wizards with mind powers? Awesome. Just so poorly executed every step of the way. Very disappointing.
This book includes some of my favorite fantasy elements: dragons, telepathy, shapeshifting, a little romance (though not as much as in Book 2) and an awesome ass-kicking heroine with some really cool friends.
It also introduced me to Mercedes Lackey (well technically The Ship Who Searched did that but I didn't remember she'd helped write that till later), who has become one of my all-time favorite authors.
This was fun and I really hope the long-awaited fourth book in the Halfblood Chronicles comes out one of these days.
I liked the 1st half, didn't even mind that she was growing in leaps and bounds.
Even with her naive moronic moments (she is use to bullies and liars, but cant spot em though she is a quick leaner at every thing else that isn't threatening seems to be a stretch) but fine.
After words though her character stops growing and acts whiny and has spontaneous love of an elfen lord who she didnt trust two sentences ago.
even worse is that her character seems to loose her intelligence and no longer able to to take care of herself.
The premise was certainly interesting, but the books was riddled with moments where I went "wait, what?" (spend pages and pages emphasizing hiding dragon existence & then mention in two sentences that the main character told that information to someone she'd met a week ago). Moments also came across as contrived sometimes, and the main character made leaps of logic and held her temper when I would not expect it from a dragon-raised 14-yr old.
I'm pretty sure I read this when I was in middle school, or thereabouts, but I certainly didn't remember it. Meh. This had some very good point, and I wasn't tempted to stop before it was done, but it didn't really grab my interest either. Also, the ending was fairly anti-climactic. I see there are two more books in this series. If I come across them at the library, I might give them a try, but I won't be going out of my way to find them.
I read this book ages ago when it first was published. I listened to the audio this time. It was as good as I remembered it was and I immediately got the 2nd book in the series and listened to it. I was disappointed to learn that the 3rd book in the trilogy has not been made into an audio. Shanda was born of a human mother and elven father. Her mother knew it was a death sentence for both of them so she ran away to the desert and died giving birth. Shana was rescued and raised by dragons.
A lot of really great concepts really poorly executed.
An interesting world, where humans are slaves and elves run things. A prophecy has dictated that a half-elf, half-human will destroy the elves' rule one day, so it is illegal to crossbreed. . . .
Didn't think I was going to enjoy it much.
Looked like a bad fantasy novel, though I do think Andre Norton was a brilliant writer.
The more I read it, the more I enjoyed it.
You start off thinking the elves are the most evil group and the only ones with prejudices, but then see how all the groups are like that.
The only thing I didn't like, was parts progressed very quickly and I thought "wait, what did I miss?
How long did this part take place for?" Other than that, brilliant and I hope to read the next book soon!
See Jorie's review -- very cool!A complete book in itself, and yet it is part of a series of novels. It takes us from poor little Serena Daeth's being left in the desert to die (how could she not?) through her being able to almost single-handedly unite the odd beings that inhabit this weird world. She wrestles precious stones from magicians, perceives that some animals which have been treated as such for generations(!) are not, that dragons have wisdom, that her father . . . etc. etc. Dragged in places. A LONG watered-down version of Joan of Arc.
This was an interesting story.
I don't think I've come across a story where elves are a conquering and evil race before this.
It set a intriguing premise.
Shana annoyed me a little bit, but then again she is a teenage character and has teenage impulses and desires.
I'm not sure what part of this book was contributed by Lackey as the writing style and dark events didn't seem like her style.
I'm assuming Norton contributed the majority of the plot and am interested in the author, whom I haven't come across before.
This is the first of a trilogy and I'm sure I'll be continuing the series.
Starts with a great world building, fluid and deep. It carries a great balance of mystery and unwinding the histories. Then the pace picks up. Faster and faster the action takes over, details get packed in with less art, rushing to the end. Like a ball of twine unraveling - smooth to start, tangled rush to finish.
Very enjoyable easy read. The progress of the story is fast (for the most part) and the author(s) don't spend extra time with unnecessary detailed description. Dragons are sentient magic wielders that sometimes enter the human/elf world to meddle. A human elf half breed starts to the change the world. I'll definitely continue with the series.
Not bad. Kind of meandered a bit with some parts being too long, while others felt truncated. Still, the writing was decent, with interesting fantasy twists thrown in.Read for the 2018 Reading Challenge prompt, “A book with a female author who uses a male pseudonym”.
An interesting world. The author doesn't trust the reader enough and has a serious school don't tell poor so it feels like nothing ever happens. I wish I would have abandoned this book for something more worth my time.
