https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/513135.The_Naughtiest_Girl_Is_a_Monitor
One thing about Whyteleafe, the school The Naughtiest Girl (namely Elizabeth Allen) goes to: it's not a single-sexed school like other boarding schools in other series made by Enid Blyton (except for St. Rollo, but then it's a standalone, not a series).
Elizabeth is a fortunate, charming girl; but here's what's so interesting about her: Blyton installed her with many flaws (just like she did to many of her main characters).
But things are not so easy, because there are new students that can make Elizabeth's semester another hell: one of them is Julian, the green-eyed boy who is one of the most fascinating characters boarding school series have ever known.
I may be overthinking this, it being a book for readers very much younger than I, but this otherwise entertaining tale suffers from two reasonably large failings:1. The ending felt very much tacked on and more than a little random.2. The conflict between the protagonist and the major antagonist goes absolutely nowhere.Other than that, this was OK.
A autora é, de facto, brilhante e fez um trabalho notável, conseguindo que os seus livros se tornem intemporais

Just finished reading this to the kids, who, once again enjoyed a classic Blyton book - even though they are boys. In my opinion, the best of the series, with Elizabeth dealing with some big issues and coming through her hardest term at Whyteleafe school.
A childhood favourite...as are all three of the Elizabeth Allen series.
I read this book when I was 13 and I loved it. It's the first Enid Blyton book I read, and it's the first book that made me realise books can make you high xP. It'll stay with me forever =D.
Elizabeth Allen (the former naughtiest girl) is a monitor!
She tries to set a good example, but things will just go wrong.
She takes her new responsibilities so seriously her that she actually accuses her friend Julian of stealing.
The Naughtiest Girl series is my favorite Blyton series.
Elizabeth is so real.
They are encouraged to take responsibility for their own behaviour--and it works!
(See, I even spelled it the British way!) The bloom is off this rose just a bit because Elizabeth is trying so hard to be good, having matured from her irresponsible early days at school.
This is the third book of the whole series, Enid Blyton has been one of my full time favourite author! The fist few books are quite good, but in the middle, it started to turn not-so-interesting.
Arabella who?
Sayangnya setiap kali dia berusaha melakukan apapun dengan sebaik-baiknya, setiap kali itu juga dia terjerat dalam kesulitan.Buku ini sebagian besar menceritakan tentang ELizabeth si pengawas dengan Julian yang bandel serta Arabella yang angkuh dan sombong.
Karena ulah Martin, secara tidak langsung Elizabeth harus diturunkan dari jabatannya sebagai Pengawas.Masih mempunyai nuansa yang sama dengan buku buku sebelumnya, buku ini sarat akan nilai nilai kebaikan yang tercermin dalam narasi dan dialog-dialog tokohnya.
sehingga terkesan seperti ada missing link karena di akhir tiba tiba arabella sudah mau berlapang dada dan ikut berbahagia atas keberhasilan elizabeth (yang mana bagi arabelle adalah musuh menyebalkan).Saya suka desain sampul buku ini apalagi warnanya pastel.
Read this series twice. It's really interesting. So real. I felt sad when I finish reading. Couldn't even find the next series... I wish I could go back to a school. To Whyteleafe or to an awesome shcool. There should be more schools like Whyteleafe in this county. Letting the children solve their problems with the help and guidance of teachers (in serious cases) who deserves punishments and all. Just great. You should read it too... =)
Elizabeth, the previous naughtiest girl in the school, is now a monitor and in charge of many of the new Children at Whyteleaf School. Of course this is not as easy as it seems, as all of the children have new personalities to deal with as they settle in to school. Elizabeth ends up in many good and bad situations and deals with them in her usual stubborn but fair way. Still a fun book.
I always enjoy the 'lessons' in Blyton's books :) For some reason, I don't think I particularly pursued this series when I was young, although I devoured (and still devour) the St Clare's and Malory Towers books... but now I love these just as much! A younger set of children and a mixed-sex school (how forward-thinking! hehe!) and lots of fun :)
Keren haha, bisa melihat bagaimana Enid Blyton memberikan insight-insight kepada anak usia sekolah melalui cerita di dalamnya, insight ini juga cukup menarik bagi saya yang sudah "cukup berumur" karena melihat bagaimana sifat-sifat dari masing-masing anak dan bagaimana mereka memecahkan permasalahan mereka, dan uniknya buku ini juga menyisipkan sedikit tentang sosialisme, recommended sih
brilliant
It was a well-written story.
Loved this book, however not the best one.
Nice follow-up to the first, and it's quite interesting to see how much she's changed from her initial rebel stage. Great fun; makes boarding school sound so attractive.
Slightly crazy that naughty Elizabeth became a monitor so fast - I'd not have trusted her for such a duty for another few terms yet!
hey>>> lets u have to think. how if you were in the dome and you can doing what tou want??????i love it...
Cerita bangsanya Malory Towers. Kocak.. Dan ternyata kehidupan di asrama menyenangkan. Jadi pengeen..
Now your probably thinking that I'm adicted to this series....... And your right! This series just gets better and better!
Re-reading these at age 34, I can fully see why I loved them at age 9, and parts of them have stuck with me vividly despite only reading them once. I think I learned a lot from them.
Gue banget! :D
273 - 2012
it is a wonderful book!!!
Ditto!! Book # 1
Namun tentunya proses adaptasi mereka diiringi lika-liku yang tidak mudah, terutama juga untuk Elizabeth.Keempat murid baru tersebut adalah Julian, Martin, Rosemary, dan Arabella.
Tidak bisa dihindari, saat membaca tentang mereka, aku teringat dengan beberapa orang-orang di sekitarku di dunia nyata, yang memiliki gambaran kepribadian mirip mereka, hehe.Lumayan terasa getir dan menggemaskan saat Elizabeth menuai beragam kesulitan dengan beberapa anak baru tersebut dan juga bagaimana Elizabeth mulai beradaptasi dengan posisi barunya sebagai Pengawas.
Namun, hal-hal yang menimpa Elizabeth sangat membuat gregetan dan emosional.Ringkasnya, buku ketiga ini jauh lebih dramatis dan menarik.
Ditambah ada aneka kepribadian dari empat orang anak baru di Whyteleafe, sangat menarik untuk disimak.
She’s set apart from her friends by her new role and oversteps her responsibilities - which is unsurprising when she’s given no guidance - and she’s up against more malign forces than in the previous books, without the support of sensible friend, Joan who is “written out” into a higher form.
The author also introduces the hackneyed plot devices of a midnight feast and practical jokes involving “curious little gadgets” and unlikely chemical mixtures - these will reappear regularly in her later school series.
