https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/862900.The_Adventurous_Four_Again_
Tidak banyak buku Enid selain seri Famous Five dan Pasukan Mau Tahu yg saya baca. Buku ini lagi-lagi menghadirkan petualangan seru.
This book was first published in 1947, and this copy was printed in 1977.In 1947, rationing was still on, but this is a child's fantasy book, so there is plenty of food, copious amounts all the time.
The children (well, pre-teens and teens) are let to go off on grand adventures on their own, with no pesky adults underfoot.
It is almost timeless; you do need to know that rationing was on (it is referenced in the book, but only in passing once or twice), but that's all.All in all, a pretty good book!
" You don't suppose two adventures like that could happen, do you? said Andy's father. Little does he know that when Tom, Mary, Jill and Andy set sail on the Andy to the Cliff of Birds, adventure can't be very far behind. The second book in the series was another fun read. Tom was a little annoying in this one.
Fairly entertaining in places, but overall a very familiar story that Enid Blyton has written more than once, better than this and with much more defined and interesting characters.
Tom was idiotic enough in their first adventure, but this time he's surpassed himself!It also struck me how often and how much the four ate in a precarious survival situation i.e. too much and often even for an Enid Blyton adventure.
I don't feel that Enid really had much of a grip on these characters or their adventures; I am not surprised that she didn't write about them again after this.
Another truly enjoyable novel by Enid Blyton.There definitely were a couple of things that bugged me (once again, there's a moment where someone is judged purely on looks!) but overall I had a great time reading this novel and loved the characters.
Thoroughly enjoyable. Completely forgotten about Adventurous Four. Loved it- now need to hunt out the others.
A little repetitive after the first book - but good clean fun. Enjoyed it.

This time Andy and Tom are up against gun smugglers(23 July 2013)	Well, I think I have now sampled all of the groups of child detectives/adventurers that I have of Enid Blyton (though I am sure there may be more, but I am not really going to go out of my way to locate any other Blyton Books that I don't have in my collection).
The bad guys seem to be a bit nastier in these books and the children (if we can call them children as they are actually teenagers, not that the concept of the teenager had been developed at the time of writing) are a lot more isolated than in other books of Blyton that I have read.
It was fun, Tom is the one who gets into the exploring mood and leads others to adventure.
Enid Blyton, just how she is :-)
EB's formula always gives a jolly good read. This series is not my favourite because the female characters are so weak. Other than that, it is exactly as it says it is - light, fun and engaging.
nice!
Also known as stranded
gerard
Three words... Fan freakin tastic!
