https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/255507.Houseboat_Mystery
I really liked this book.I think it was the best in the series so far.I even made Mom read on her own.
Benny doesn’t voice his excitement, but I believe we know him well enough now that it’s implied.Benny’s big moment comes when he gets to change the name on the boat to the The James H Alden.
This theory is solidified by Benny seeing the waitress slip an envelope to one of the strangers, while the other natters on about ‘no one finding out.’ This is the least discrete drug deal I’ve ever witnessed.Oh, and they get into a big black car, too–big surprise.Henry, lovable dumbass that he is, misses all the intrigue.
This book had a bit more excitement than the others generally do, and it was mildly entertaining-I'm reading these more out of duty than anything else now, as I'm reading them cover to cover in just under an hour without getting any true thrill out of it. Perhaps I'm reading these books too close together. Still fun enough to read, and I'm committed to finishing all those stories that Warner actually wrote-after that, I'm out.
Loved this book in 3rd grade
I have books 1 12 and 13 of this series
The Alden family take a trip in a Houseboat down the river and stop in small towns along the way.
After meeting a few families they realize that everyone seems worried and something is bothering them.
They also notice a cigarette smell in their Houseboat and realize someone had been there while they were gone.
They make a plan with the local police and ambush the thieves as they are sneaking back into the boat.
After they are apprehended the thieves reveal that they had also been intimidating the locals into giving them money.
I realize what I loved about these was all the inventions, and things they made, did, and saw. It has much less to do with the mystery and simple writing.
It was great!
This book was more exciting and adventurous than the previous books.
I liked this book because I like house-boats. I also liked this book because I like birds.
I would have preferred to read the books in this series in order, but instead I just picked up whatever was available at our library.
That was kind of fun, to see that the children had aged.
Much of this book was so focused on Benny that at times it almost seemed like this was his adventure, and the rest of the family just tagged along.
The mystery involved two strange men, and it did seem a little too coincidental that the Alden family just happened to be in the right place at the right time to get involved in this case.
My love of reading started when i was young, and it gives me immense pleasure to provide books to Spread the Word Nevada, an organization that passes them on to children in the community.
Sometimes I'll find a book I remember reading when I was young and will read it again before passing it on.I don't rate these books using my normal scale, instead I give most of them three stars.
This isn't a Criticism of the book, simply my way of rating them as good for children.
Benny finds out that the clock has been missing one night in this book. Because when I was reading he thought that he couldn't hear the clock ticking. They went to second landing (it comes again in another book). The renters name was Rivers. Sometimes the houseboat was named The Blue Heron and sometimes it was called Rock and Roll and Moon Rocket and The All Inn. And those were different families who rented the houseboat. First they called it the James H Alden.
I really enjoyed reading this book. I was able to tag along with the Aldens as they drifted peacefully down the river and puzzled their way through a few problems and a mystery. What I truly love about books such as these is the unity and team spirit of the family that is so tragically absent in today's "me-me-me" society. I highly recommend it to anyone needing a peaceful break in the middle of a hectic schedule.
I remember finding this book in my school library when I was around eight or nine years old. It was old and the cover was so worn out, all I could make out of the cover was the title. It was my first mystery book I every read. I loved it so much. And a few years later I finally found it in hard back. Needless to say I bought it.
I liked houseboat mystery. It was where they're trying to catch people. They had stolen a vase that was very valuable and put it in a sandbox on the boat since the sandbox had to be there to put out fires. And how they found the vase was Jesse dropped a thing of fish on the sand so they had to put new sand in it. So they put new sand in it and found the vase.
The Belden family is taking a houseboat trip down the river, but the find mystery all along the riverbanks. Thefts, worried people and someone sneaking on board their boat. Leave it to the Beldens to find mystery everywhere the go.
I really enjoyed reading this book about the Alden family.The three children always find a way of solving problems they come across during their camping time.I enjoy reading books that include solving problems because I learn how to also solve our daily lifeproblems.
Lilly: "I loved it so much and I loved the part where they tricked them. That was my favorite book of all! And I loved the whole entire story."I loved reading this with Lilly, it was very suspenseful...for a box car children's book.
Still reading my way through this classic children's series on Kindle Unlimited. This time, the Alden family takes a vacation on a houseboat and uncovers some thieves working their cons along the river. Not a very involved mystery here, but a fun quick read.
It was fun to read about the box car children on a houseboat because twice a year I go on a houseboat. It's kind of funny because the writer doesn't actually tell who the thieves are. She just says it was two men, so it's kind of weird.
A good series for the young reader.
Very quick read.
JEAR3-War
I always wanted a houseboat after this one. Love! I would have named my boat things other than people's names though, I think.
McKay and I read this book together
The book is notable for its vocabulary, e.g., fire extinguisher, auctioneer, commander.
Boxcar Children is still my five year old's favorite read aloud series. We continue to work our way through the books. First completed read aloud of 2014.
One of my favorite childhood series. I read over a hundred of them. The first 50 or so were in order; after that I read whatever book I could get my hands on :)
great when ur little
