https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9999107-the-american-heiress
There are 3 things that happened in this book that made it an impossibility to take it remotely seriously, even if the rest of the book had been the pinnacle of sophisticated literature (it wasn't.) Yes, within 15 pages, we have girls kissing, less than halfway through the book, an artist references what will become known in the 21st century as the progenitor of all uncomfortable anime-based bestiality fantasies (God, the things I learned as an art history minor), and...ok, well Constable Odo from Deep Space 9 isn't actually in this book, but there IS a character named "Odo" and this was all I could imagine.Beyond all that, this book just wasn't what it was supposed to be.
Usually the lead man in books has his faults but comes through in the end, and I suppose in his way he did.
Confrontations were building up throughout the whole book yet they kinda fizzled out at the end, which was disappointing.I did like the author's style of writing, I just felt that the book was a bit too long, and it could have had some stuff taken out.I suppose has a whole I did like it, but its not something I would read again.
Spoilers follow (sort of):I can't ruin the plot, there isn't one.I can't ruin the ending, it just stops.There was one character that I liked in that entire book...
The author in my view spent far too long dressing people in Mouselline from Paris (very repetitively, I might add) & not enough time making things happen.
When anything did happen in the book, she just sort of glossed over it...
what a waste of time. I would like to go back and read Custom of the Country by Edith Wharton to see why a book like that sticks with me and a book like this only makes a plane ride tolerable. The writing is perfectly adequate but there is no depth, no real feeling.
Slightly tepid period yarn that falls between the two stools of Romantic and 'Literary' fiction. Clearly inspired by the likes of Wharton, Waugh and Austen (indeed, in thrall to them), the novel simply warms over themes and story lines that were looking decidedly over-used two generations ago. People like Wharton were writing about their own time, of course, so the social critique had some point to it. Here there is none at all, unless we are being asked to believe that nothing has changed. The writing is sound, but far from sparkling, sadly.
It was the exact kind of story that keeps me turning the pages and removes me from the drudgery of housework.The story centers around Cora Cash (love the name) who is rich beyond belief as we are reminded every other page.
Her mother lacks only one thing that money can't buy, a royal title, so she dispatches Cora off across the pond to land a duke.
Cora is rich and pretty, Duke is handsome and poor, bingo!
The supporting members of the cast such as Cora's maid and mother and the Duke's best friend round out the story.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book like a hunk Godiva chocolate.
Possibly the soapiest dish of a book I've ever read. If you're feeling Downton Abbey withdrawls this is the book for you :)
He keeps claiming to love her but then not only doesn't help her when she becomes hurt by his effort to hide his own indiscretions, but becomes angry with her.
That's selfish and NOT loving as he claimed.
I possibly hate Jim more than Ivo. He's only interested in getting laid by Bertha, never interested in her as a person.
And why would you want to be with Jim even if you didn't need to use guile?!The best part of this book was the comparison between the relationships between servants and masters in England and the U.S. and how the cultures differed in both good treatment and maltreatment of their servants.
In the beginning and the middle of the novel I liked Cora's character then by the end of the novel she became completely spineless she could not even control the servants.In fact my favorite character by far was Odo he exposed everything that needed to be exposed about Charlotte's and Dukes romance and made Charlotte's life unhappy.
I did not like how the characters were separated so much and by far their was not enough romance, if however Duke was not in such a despicable situation with Charlotte then the whole lack of intimacy could've been ignored, however by the last few chapters I was disgusted by the way the novel was going and decided to give a one star.
Touted as the perfect book for someone missing the upstairs/downstairs genius of Downton Abbey, this story fulfills not only the historical aspect of wealthy American women marrying into financially-suffering English aristocratic families, but also the mannerisms, style, and attitudes of the day.
Sure there is scandal, but the reader (if paying attention) can see it coming from the first third of the story-- which begins a tedious waiting game while the reader turns the pages to see if the main character, Cora, will finally find something out.
Into every traveler's life (if he or she purchases flight reading in the rush before departure)some surprisingly good, and sometimes bad, books will likely fall.
From its packaging--including blurbs and author 'endorsements'--to its very plot, this book shamelessly piggybacks off the Downton Abbey phenomenon.
I'd hoped for something that expanded on and maybe amplified the entire Gilded era experience of American Heiresses who married into the British aristocracy for the title and were married for the money they brought to the union, but this novel merely repeated in a lugubrious, unoriginal and painfully plodding fashion the same basic, all-too familiar plot points.
It was hard to read the beginning of the book - I did not care for Cora at all, not one jot.
And it's always hard to care for a book when you don't care for a character.I thought she was very VERY selfish.
Hideously so.But by the end of the book I found that I had started to care for her.
It was weird that the smart Bertha would want to be with him, but maybe he was the only one to see through the colour of her skin (or maybe that was the reason for his attraction).
puhleese! By pg 114, give me some picture, some back story, some description – something! I still have really no idea what Cora looks like, have little idea of her back-story, cannot picture any scenes that I'm reading about. This is set in 1890s American and English upper class society; a huge wealth of information could have be utilized in order to set this novel - it is a pity the author did not use it. The dialogue is empty, vacuous and - oh, why am I bothering here.Take my advice - read something else!
Onvan : The American Heiress - Nevisande : Daisy Goodwin - ISBN : 312658656 - ISBN13 : 9780312658656 - Dar 468 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 2010
It was also very interesting to see American upper class society juxtaposed against the English upper class – they were vastly different and it became quite an important plot device throughout the novel.This was a great read and even though it ended in possibly not the most ideal situation it was still what I was rooting for.
I would certainly love to read another book by this author, it was a great debut.
At the end of the novel there was an interview with the author which was a wonderful treat.
The reviews I read for this book were wishy-washy and didn’t really give me a reason to not read the book, but it only took one to convince me to definitely read it…“Anyone suffering Downton Abbey withdrawal symptoms (who isn’t?) will find an instant tonic in Daisy Goodwin’s The American Heiress.
There’s an air of mystery about Ivo from the beginning and it seems to draw Cora in deeper before she even realizes what’s happening.
Next thing you know, the biggest wedding of the year is taking place at Trinity Church in Manhattan (yes, that church) and Cora becomes the Duchess.
The poor little rich girl, Cora Cash, who has everything - looks, charm, intelligence, and the richest daddy in New York - is totally self-absorbed and, even though she's the victim of a merciless social-climbing mother, she never becomes sympathetic.
Her maid Bertha, who could be more relatable, is treated so summarily that she never comes fully to life.
Both social sets, the ultra-rich New York high society and the British royalty, are deplorable in their rigid pecking order, and delight in gossipy innuendo at the least and sabotaging rivals through scandal or destroying marital trust out of revenge at the worst.
I like a good historical Mills and Boon, but I need to know what I'm getting in for and 'My Last Duchess' did not promote itself like that at all.Basically, an unlikeable, boring, American heiress falls in the path of a possibly likeable, maybe interesting impoverished English Duke.
It seemed to me that the author had found some interesting information about these professions and couldn't bare to leave it out though it didn't contribute to the plot or character development at all.Verdict: Don't waste your time.
I was totally engrossed in this book.
The story is about a wealthy,spirited young woman during the late 1890's who has her world at her feet.
Cora was self-centered,beautiful, spoiled and vain.
But, I also thought she knew deep down what was ultimately inportant to her and her happiness.
I loved the rich,sumptuous details of the ball gowns and the grand surroundings.
I thought the author did an excellent job of portraying the haughtiness and wealth of the people of this era.
For me, this was a book to get lost in with all it's wonderful descriptions.
Cora Cash, 18 years old and a Raving Beauty, is the title hunter du jour...but author Goodwin can't quite make her heroine sufficiently mercenary.
Papa Cash is a minor character whose only purpose is to sign checks and provide an arm for the ladies to clutch when walking in to dinner.The book gets interesting briefly when the Cash Family arrives in London and Cora gets some Buccaneer Boot Camp training from an American woman who makes her living teaching rich Philadelphia heiresses not to eat their peas with a knife or scratch where it itches.
I have an irrational weakness for period dramas and ever since hearing that Julian Fellowes was inspired to write "Downton Abbey" by a book he was reading about the rash American heiresses who married into the British aristocracy at the end of the 19th century, I've been on the lookout for just such a book.
The "drama" seems pointless, but then there are the hints of romance novel that slip in.
Too bad, because taking this book into romance novel land is probably the only way it could have been saved.
I was in a bit of a book funk when I picked this book up. I had started to read several books, but this is the only one I couldn't stop reading. It was predictable in some ways but unpredictable in other ways. I enjoyed all the period detail and the upstairs/downstairs stuff. Definitely right book, right time!
Although it's fiction, some have suggested the MC, Cora Cash, extraordinarily rich American 'princess', is loosely based on the real-life Consuelo Vanderbilt, who also married an English duke.
Cora seemed like a reasonable enough person, but her character was quite flat beside her revolting mother.
It was all a bit too cool and unknowable for most of the book.Bertha, Cora's African-American personal maid, was an interesting character, and a device that enabled us to see the 'below stairs' workings of the great houses, as well as a little of Cora's inner life.
I enjoyed this book quite a bit.
I am a Downton Abbey lover and this book is very much in the same vein as that show.
Cora annoyed me at times with how naive she was but she gets better and matures.
I was worried it was going to end horribly, but it didn't.
I would've liked a little more resolution between her and Teddy at the end there, at least for Teddy's sake, but I was glad about Cora ' s decision once Ivo spilled the beans.
If you too enjoyed Downton Abbey, then this book is for you!
Cheaters never prosper....except in Daisy Goodwin novels. Dull and filled with manipulative male leads and weak bellied females.
And Cora would have no choice but to swim with them, never looking down.A fun book; easy to read & get lost in, though not terribly sophisticated prose-wise.
If you want to wallow in a similar story type with glorious verbosity & detailed emotional response, read Edith Wharton -- she's a great writer, & no mistake.
Such hyper-vigilant (or just plain curious) observation of Cora's life is a major motif of AMERICAN HEIRESS.
Edith Wharton has a justified place in literary history, but entertaining trash like AMERICAN HEIRESS shouldn't be afraid to include a subtle (or maybe not so subtle?) dig at the people therein.
This is the book equivalent of that light, frothy, fruity, delicious cocktail.I had to post a Teaser earlier today because I was literally delighted by this story from the first handful of pages, and it honestly gets better from there.
Set during the Gilded Age, the story follows American heiress Cora Cash as she hunts, and marries, an English noble.
Cora actually sold me on the story, from the first: she's outrageous and out-of-touch, but young and unsure in her own way.
I particularly enjoyed the little interview with the author at the end of the audio version.
I have the paperback too and I wish I had realized there was an interview with the author at the end of the book as well as reading group questions.
Loved reading the section, "Behind the Novel." I did not know until after I finished that Daisy Goodwin is the daughter of film producer Richard B.
I found this very interesting.
It was interesting and engaging for the most part.
I really wanted to like this book but unfortunately it did not happen.It's not a bad book, it's very well written and well developed even though it's slow on some points, but for me it just was not a enjoyable read.Strange as it may seem I found the author's writing to be too good (if that makes sense)Sincerely was not what I expected from the story when I read the synopsis, I was just expecting a historical romance but the book is so much more than that and I did not like itA shame because the cover is very pretty!
Pretty good. Definitely some Downton Abbey feels. Didn't blow my mind, but I enjoyed listening to it.
