https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1808369.The_Red_Skull
The first Doc Savage story appeared in 1933 and the series ran in pulp and later digest format into 1949.
The characterizations were far richer than was common for the pulps; his five associates and their sometimes-auxiliary, Doc's cousin Pat, and the pets Chemistry and Habeas Corpus, all had very distinctive characteristics and their byplay was frequently more entertaining that the current adventure-of-the-month.
The settings were also fascinating: Doc's Fortress of Solitude, the Hidalgo Trading Company (which served as a front for his armada of vehicles), and especially the mysterious 86th floor headquarters all became familiar haunts to the reader, and the far-flung adventures took the intrepid band to exotic and richly-described locations all over the world.
The Doc Savage books have always been my favorite entertainments...
A straightforward but entertaining Doc story, sixth in the original series (August 1933). Less fantastical than many, it's more of a mystery with only a few speculative-fiction elements. There are several good characters here, especially Monk's secretary, Lea Aster—a fun, feisty female who I wish had become a regular in the series.
Doc and his pals accept a mission to foil a plan to undermine a dam construction in Arizona. And that is pretty much it. Nothing special about this tale, that is unusually mundane in comparision with other Doc exploits.The aforementioned "Red Skull" is just a rocky formation, not a villain. Perhaps naming the story "Nick Clipton" would not be so spetacular and ominous.
The writing is not the best in the world (it was only written for the old pulp magazines in the 1930's)but a lot of fun. really entertaining... similar to Indiana Jones except that Doc Savage is a genius....
I liked this one. It's not as fantastic as some of the other Doc novels, but the plot moves quick and the mystery mostly works. Good enough for me!
reread SOMETIME in 2007
possibly read in may 1967
My first experience with a Doc Savage tale.
A nearly perfect physical form, enhanced hearing and sight, even a Fortress of Solitude located at the North Pole, all point to Superman.
A hugely wealthy orphan, supreme powers of observation and deduction, and unique vehicles, gadgets, even a utility belt, all point to Batman.This particular story was more pedestrian than others, from what I understand.
Doc Savage crosses paths with some unscrupulous businessmen who will stop at nothing to gain control of a dam construction project.
There are some nice action scenes and Monk's secretary Lea Aster, the sole female character, shows a great deal of ingenuity in getting word out to Doc Savage after she is kidnapped by hoods.
While physically present for most of the story, another weakness is the fact that Savage's five companions also do not have much dialogue.The criminal conspiracy at the heart of the story is interesting, as is the fact that Doc Savage spends a great deal of time surrounded by people who may or be secret saboteurs.
This seems to happen frequently in the Doc Savage stories.
Another good Doc adventure that I read back in the 70s.
Marty Stu/Mary Sue unlikable Doc Savage strikes again!
Then the killers go after Monk in his laboratory, kidnapping his pretty blonde secretary, Lea Aster.
Someone is trying to bankrupt the Mountain Desert Construction Company, and it’s up to Doc to find out why—and save pretty blonde Lea from her captors!
They’re no shrinking violets, and Lea Aster is particularly feisty and unflappable.
Never once do her captors so much as throw a mild scare into her, and she outwits them often, aiding Doc and his men in rescuing her.As usual, I highly recommend another classic Doc Savage tale.

Of all the pulp era heroes few stand out above the crowd, Doc Savage is one of these. With his 5 aides and cousin he adventures across the world. Fighting weird menaces, master criminals and evil scientists Doc and the Fab 5 never let you down for a great read. These stories have all you need; fast paced action, weird mystery, and some humor as the aides spat with each other. My highest recommendation.
Most of the early Doc Savages are great, but occasionally Lester Dent produced a decent but rather uninspired one, understandable considering the rigors of monthly releases. "The Red Skull" pales mostly in comparison to the gold that surrounds it. But it was early enough (1933) that the extreme pulpiness of the first few Docs isn't in this case offset by a great and colorful story. Not bad, though.
pulpy pulp pulp. Not as well held together as some other DS.
liked the book.
