https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/299215.The_Road_to_Serfdom
This book captures the frustration of classical liberals (as opposed to modern liberals) when they see collectivist policies enacted despite the overwhelming evidence that socialism brings about disastrous results.Having grown up and lived in Austria during World War I and later moving to Great Britain, Hayek was particularly frustrated when he saw Britain and the United States making the same mistakes of the Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union.
Central economic planning gives too much power to the government, which essentially puts that power in the hands of a small group rather than in each individual.My favorite quote: “Democracy and socialism have nothing in common but one word: equality.
While such a system is not without flaws that may at times lead to abuses that people of good conscience may find objectionable, Hayek makes a powerful case that it is the only system that provides the opportunity for success to everyone.
Any change to the system that modifies this (i.e., grants special assistance or rules to benefit one group) necessarily hurts another group and this kind of intervention leads to the determination by a small group of people without all necessary factual evidence (as no group can ever be fully informed of all of the variables that go into how a society operates) based on its "opinion" of what the correct result should be.
It is said current Speaker of the House of Representatives Paul Ryan gives out copies of this book to his staff when they begin working for him The staff must discuss the book in small groups like bible study because—I guaran-f-ing-tee you—a young and busy staff in D.C. will not know what the heck Hayek is talking about, much less apply it to the U.S. economy in the context of the world.The ideas in this book began as a memo to the director of the London School of Economics in the 1930s, which then became a magazine article, and then, during WWII, became a monograph of its own.
The Road to Serfdom is not an anti-government book, it's definitely not a libertarian or pro-laissez-faire capitalism or even a pro-democracy book.
It's purely and simply an anti-socialism book.
Despite the fact that The Road to Serfdom is currently being championed by conservatives, Hayek calls himself a liberal and the book is written with fellow liberals in mind.
Definitions, especially in the world of politics, have a way of changing.
For Hayek liberalism was tantamount to freedom and liberty.
Today the definition of the world "liberal" has shifted.
The historical analysis upon which this book depends amounts to nothing more than extremely poor scholarship masquerading as thoughtful contrarianism.
Hayek's conflation of Nazism with Socialism merely because they have similar names in German is an example of stupidity on the level of mistaking the PATRIOT Act for patriotism or the Ministry of Peace for peacefulness.
His theory of authoritarianism consists of extrapolations from misplaced assumptions about Nazi Germany and disproven projections about the direction the U.S.
His quaint economic theory tells us little about contemporary authoritarian regimes and even less about modern social democracy.
It's short, but deep, combining economics, politics, sociology, and a short history of Socialist thought, to create the greatest critique of the collectivist impulse that you can read.
This clamor leads to the demand-often in the guise of "a new freedom"-for stronger government regulation and guidance of economic activity.
Hayek was writing during WW2, so much of his critique centers on the National Socialism of the Germans, but he makes clear that the Marxists and Laborites were just as bad.
a must read for anyone who cares about politics, and its intersection with economics
The notions in this text are trifling at best.Hayek never confronts the fact that a lack of some centralized body somewhere making decisions for you does not mean an end to governance.
To take this power away from a centralized and (at least ostensibly) publicly accountable body and to diffuse this power throughout the business community is not to rid oneself of governance.
If anyone thought that Freds meant that any step toward socialism leads to totalitarianism, however, we might excuse their apparently erroneous belief on the basis of the 1956 preface, wherein Big Poppa admits that his audience is already against fascism and communism (which he identifies as substantially identical, in a standard reckless construction), and that “democratic socialism is a very precarious and unstable affair” (xxxii), revealing the true polemical target, and associating by the bye New Deal policies with totalitarianism by implication even though “hot socialism is probably a thing of the past” (id.).
That last point, for instance, is simply, manifestly erroneous; at which point did a state with socialism (as Big Poppa defined it in 1944--state ownership of the means of production with central planning (37 (a mere 3 pages later))) exist, and then transition to fascism?
Προφανώς είναι πολύ πιο εύκολη η ανάγνωσή του πλέον, δεδομένου πως ο βασικός του αντίπαλος, ήτοι ο κεντρικός σχεδιασμός, ο κολεκτιβισμός, έχουν όχι μόνο εξαφανιστεί ως υπαρκτές εναλλακτικές, αλλά έχουν χάσει και την όποια βαρύτητά τους στο φαντασιακό των Δυτικού τύπου δημοκρατιών.
Έπρεπε να περάσουν κάποιες δεκαετίες για να δει τις ιδέες του να έρχονται στο προσκήνιο και να γίνονται πράξη (τουλάχιστον εν μέρει, και όχι πάντα από τους ιδανικότερους εκπροσώπους, αν και αυτή είναι η ιλαροτραγική μοίρα των ιδεών).
I will try to say a few words about the book and recommend it.This is the same book that was released in England in 1944, but it is a new edition and thus has a new intro by the author.
In America today the word "conservative" means to most who consider themselves conservatives the conservation of the rule of law and the individual rights laid out in the U.S. Constitution.
So, in this book when Dr. Hayek uses the word "conservative" this school of thought would actually be much closer to socialism and what he refers to as "collectivist thought" than otherwise.
1/2 star not simply for Hayek's preachy, condescending tone, but because this book was the catalyst for the gutting of the State by the flying monkeys of the Chicago School under Milton Friedman. From Pinochet's Chile to Thatcher's Britain to post-Soviet Russia, Hayek's callous version of individualism and "competition" gave a veneer of legitmacy to an explosion of untramelled human greed in which millions of people lost any security of income or employment whilst a few within the charmed circle of power were enriched outrageously. In fact, outrage is the only appropriate response to this book.
Hayek creates a facile equation of fascism and communism, and argues that any political or economic system that is not laissez-faire capitalism is tyranny. Hayek's seemingly deliberate misreadings of history left me unconvinced, and very uneasy with the libertarian movement, if this is to be taken as a representative text.
In this book Hayek contends that liberty is fragile, easily harmed but seldom extinguished in one fell swoop.
Instead, over the years “the unforeseen but inevitable consequences of socialist planning create a state of affairs in which, if the policy is to be pursued, totalitarian forces will get the upper hand.” He asserts that liberty has developed from an a posteriori recognition of humans’ inherent limitations – particularly the restrictions of their knowledge and reasoning.
Hence government intervention in the plans of individuals, even if undertaken by men of good will, inevitably leads to loss of liberty, economic stagnation (at best) and war and impoverishment (at worst).
This is among my favorite works of philosophy and economics.
The fact that there are socialists who want the workers controlling the means of production rather than the state is not even glanced at because then it becomes difficult to make simplistic, tired arguments.I'm also amused by how easily these economists make bombastic claims such that the free market is the only way for individuals to be free, without bothering to go into any of those pesky—and rather philosohical—details about what economic freedom really means.
I couldn't help but wonder whether he was aware that one argument leftists make against capitalist workplaces is that they're simply the state writ small, existing as extremely centralized, hierarchical structures with no democratic control.
Below are what I believe to be some of the principle strands of thought found here that were entirely familiar with present day rhetoric:- Socialism inexorably leads to fascism, liberalism is the only alternative- Glorification of the individual but a fear of the masses- Necessity of limited democracy - Money as the measure of all things- Competition in a free market as the best regulator of society- Growing the total wealth rather than redistribution of wealth as the solution to poverty (trickle-down economics)- A return to ‘traditional’ individualist values- The sacredness of private property- The selfishness of organised labour- Necessity of government intervention to favour the marketWhat struck me most forcibly was undoubtedly this claim: "Few are ready to recognise that the rise of Fascism and Nazism were not a reaction against the socialist trends of the preceding period, but a necessary outcome of those tendencies” (p 4).
“We are today living out the dim echo—like light from a fading star—of a debate conducted seventy years ago by men (John Meynard Keynes and Friedrich Hayek) born for the most part in the late nineteenth century. To be sure, the economic terms in which we are encouraged to think are not conventionally associated with these far-off political disagreements. And yet without an understanding of the latter, it is as though we speak a language we do not fully comprehend.”- Tony Judt ‘What is Living and
The origins of the worst authoritarianisms (e.g., Nazism, Stalinism) can be found within all such “planning.” At the outset Hayek admits that by socialism he only means industrial state gigantism associated with the central planning in the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany.
Hayek’s point is that whatever undesirable outcomes occur as a result of market social relations—he freely admits that “inequalities of opportunity” exist in capitalist society—things turn out worse when “the state” gets involved beyond the ways in which classical political economy (e.g., Smith, Ricardo) suggests.
What a fine book.
What a timely book.
The political world is divided into two main groups -- those who think controlling everything from the center is a good idea and those who do not.
Each side of that divide has its variations, but those are the basic options.
Those on the fascist side (control) have the hard totalitarians and the soft totalitarians, but that is basically a difference between those who want to hang you by the neck and those who want to smother you with a feather pillow.
At any rate, those who love freedom need all the intellectual ammo they can get these days, and this book has plenty.
(going to make an exception to my only-radicals rule. It's always important to know your enemies. It comes recommended by Perry Anderson.)
With all respect to Hayek and his intellect, this book falls short of being the ultimate attack on socialism it set out to be.
And even this was only political success, economically and socially, two of the world' greatest countries UK and USA were destroyed by the so-called interpretation of this book by their harsh leaders.
I will not blame this entirely on Hayek or the book but it just shows how ill-informed this book is.Socialism might be a thing of the past, Marxism may have crumbled but certainly collectivism remains.
There is something a little awe-inspiring about reading a book and realizing how much of your personal philosophy and intellectual heritage you owe to it. I got the same feeling the first time I read Two Treatises of Government. When I consider the impact this book has had on my life and work, it amazes me it took me this long to read it. This should be required reading alongside 1984. It conveys the problems of socialism and yet eerily resembles a conversation we could be having today. Thought-provoking and inspiring, I highly recommend this one.
Nhân mùa khai trường năm học mới (2016-2017) thì châm ngôn của cá nhân mình được lấy cảm hứng từ quy
This was a bit of a hate-read for me, but I was surprised that I didn't hate it with quite the intensity I expected.I was able to appreciate Hayek's arguments against full-scale government planning as predicting a lot of what went wrong with the Soviet Union.
Still, I am unmoved by his slippery slope argument that any socialist policies inevitably lead to totalitarian government.
Other times his focus was way too broad on gloom and doom warnings of what might happen if this or that happens in a planned economy - predictions that have oftentimes been proven wrong in the last 70 odd years.
If "compassionate conservatism" means anything, than it surely means something like this.
Hayek's thought no longer qualifies as hardcore libertarian because he believed in government welfare programs, albeit limited ones, as supplementary to the free market system for those unable to participate in it.
Central planning was what he was really against, and he has a very convincing argument against putting economic planning in the hands of any government, no matter how benevolent it may seem to be at the time.
His arguments for "liberalism" (old-school) are mostly pragmatic, based upon balancing power in society.
Good food for thought at the very least.
متاسفانه ترجمه به اندازه ای بد و در انتقال مطلب گنگ و ناتوان است که امکان ادامه ی کتاب وجود ندارد. خیلی از کتاب های کلاسیک ، مهم و تخصصی در حوزه های مختلف این گونه در ایران نابود شده اند و دیگر خوانده نمی شوند . ترجمه ی بد باعث می شود که دیگر نه کسی کتاب را تا اخر بخواند و نه مترجم دیگری به فکر ترجمه دوباره کتاب بیفتد به این علت که به لحاظ اقتصادی معمولا ترجمه دوباره کتاب به صرفه نیست و در بازار با استقبال مواجه نمی شود و این غم انگیز است .
A must read for every liberal, socialist or communist ;-)
امتیاز کتاب: 4امتیاز ترجمه: 0 در باب ترجمهی اثر شاید بیشترین ظلمی که میشد به یک نویسنده و فرد شهیری همچون فونهایک  کرد این بود که با این ترجمه ضعیف و افتضاح سعی در شناساندن او به خوانندگان ایرانی کرد.
کتاب به نحوی یک ترجمهای ضعیف، گنگ و نامفهوم دارد که قطعا اگر نویسنده فونهایک نبود و کتاب نیز جزو کتابهای مشهور و محبوب به شمار نمیرفت خواندن آن تا پایان، کاری طاقت فرسا به شمار میرفت.
گویا مترجمان از ترجمه تنها کلمه کلمه ترجمه کردن را دریافته اند و نه فهم و ساختاربندی درست جملات و انتقال مفهوم به خ
فون‌هایک معتقد است بازارهای آزاد در نهایت صلح، امنیت، رفاه و آزادی را برای فرد و جامعه به ارمغان می‌آورند.فون‌هایک در این کتاب تاحدود بسیاری به بیان اندیشه‌های سیاسی و اقتصادی خود می‌پردازد و از مضرات اندیشه‌های سوسیالیستی و نظام برنامه‌ریزی متمرکز سخن می‌گوید و تیغ نقد خود را بر آن‌ها می‌کشد.
این صحبت‌ها شاید در دهه 40 برای مردم دنیا و حتی قشر دانشگاهی چندان مورد توجه نبود اما پایان قرن بیستم و با فروپاشی نظام‌های کمونیستی پیشبینی‌ها و سخن‌های هایک بر همگان آشکار گشت.هایک وجود یک چهارچوب قانونی برای یک نظام رقابتی موثر و کارآمد را ضروری می‌شمرد و لازمه‌ی این چهارچوب، طراحیِ منطقیِ آن و سازگاری دائمی آن با شرایط است.
Hayek's The Road to Serfdom was both prophetic and influential in its day, and its message is as timely now as it ever was.
In so doing, he provides key insights into economic concepts rarely discussed or understood today in mainstream conversations, such as how the price system works as a means of conveying information, how the rule of command is diametrically opposed to the rule of law, and how the increased complexity of our system demands a technique based on decentralization and automatic, impersonal coordination.
Hayek's work is both profound and humane, and it deserves fresh revisiting in the twenty-first century, where its lessons are all too needed and applicable.
Hayek's analysis of socialism is insightful, prophetic, and chilling. It is a difficult book to read, but very rewarding. It is clear that we take for granted the freedoms we were given by our founding fathers and abdicating them to the socialist planners will lead to dire consequences. We must all wake up before the socialists in our midst lead us to totalitarianism--something that may be difficult to imagine, but most certainly in our future if we continue upon our current path.
This contest between individual freedom and the supposed good of society as a whole extends back to Plato and was greatly developed by John Locke (for individual freedom or "natural law") and Thomas Hobbes (for the good of society and the control of individuals in his LeviathanHayek's writing is concise and illustrates how Nazi (National Socialist) Germany is the best example of the willing, in fact, enthusiastic, surrender of the self to the nation.
The best solution, in Hayek's view, is the protection of our right to be treated equally under the law; that it must be blind.
I've heard about this book for so long from conservatives who say that it shows how contemporary liberalism is Hayek's "road to serfdom."Balderdash.
If you read this book, you'll see that Hayek wrote at the end of World War II to warn about the dangers of centralized, planned economies, as opposed to economies based on competition.
It is not about whether there should be government interventions designed to provide a temporary shield against the inevitable--and sometimes dangerous--wobbles of a competitive economy.So it's not Hayek that lends credence to what Glenn Beck is after.
