https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3686.Truth_and_Beauty
She sounded exhausting.And finally, I think it exploitative of Ann Pratchett to write a book like this about someone she supposedly felt was her best friend when that person could no longer respond, particularly as Ann wasn't truly writing about the relationship at all.
She did not write about her own feelings of the friendship, why and how it developed as it did, what kept them together, what she learned about herself, how (or whether!) Lucy brought out the best in her, etc.; in fact, there seems to be very little reflection on or ownership about her own behavior.
Wow -- what a fascinating experience, to read "Truth and Beauty" after "Autobiography of a Face" and then to follow up with Suellen Grealy's angry article.
I actually thought "Truth and Beauty" was the better book of the two, although perhaps it's not fair to say that because much of my fascination with "Truth and Beauty," at least initially, stemmed from having read "Autobiography of a Face" and the unique, stimulating opportunity to read one person's memoir and then to read how that person was remembered by a close friend.First of all, I loved the writing.
This is a beautiful memoir of a friendship between two writers, Ann Patchett and the poet Lucy Grealy.
I read this back in 2006, and it's still one of my favorite books about the nature of friendship and the bonds that we form with others.Ann met Lucy in college, and later they both attended the Iowa Writer's Workshop.
As two reasonably intelligent and very serious young writers in a reasonably serious writing program, we didn't so much discuss our work as volley ideas back and forth until neither of us was sure who belonged to what."After grad school the two friends moved away but stayed in touch with visits and heartfelt letters, some of which Ann includes in the book.
The cowardice starts there, letting this book be about Lucy, who is dead, about how larger than life and brilliant and fucked up she was, because that way Patchett never really has to tell us much more than the executive summary of herself.
I don't want to piece together evidence from a friendship/memoir/fragmented biography – I want the evidence, and I want Patchett's thoughts on it, I wanted honesty about this part of Lucy, too, along with how she submitted herself again and again to abusive surgeries.
This is a book all about Patchett's grief, and yet, at the last, she hides her face.Courage.
"Truth and Beauty" is a memoir about the close friendship Ann Patchett shared with the writer Lucy Grealy.
Grealy published the successful "Autobiography of a Face" in 1994 about her experiences.Patchett and Grealy, both graduates of Sarah Lawrence College, became best friends when sharing an apartment at the Iowa Writers' Workshop.
Although Grealy had a great number of friends, she longed for true love with a man.
Patchett spent twenty years as her devoted, loving, responsible friend.
In spite of the overwhelming efforts of Patchett and others, no one could save Grealy from her demons.
Truth and Beauty is an endearing, wonderfully written memoir about the friendship and love between Ann Patchett and her friend, memoirist/poet, Lucy Grealy. Complete opposites, Patchett aptly compares their relationship to Aesop's fable characters: the grasshopper, ant, tortoise and hare.  "What the story didn't tell you is that the ant relented at the eleventh hour and took in the grasshopper when the weather was hard, fed him on his tenderest store of grass all winter. The tortoise, being unin
Truth and Beauty is an endearing, wonderfully written memoir about the friendship and love between Ann Patchett and her friend, memoirist/poet, Lucy Grealy.
Complete opposites, Patchett aptly compares their relationship to Aesop's fable characters: the grasshopper, ant, tortoise and hare.
Grasshoppers and hares find the ants and tortoises.
They were the ones who brought the truth and beauty to the party, which Lucy could tell you as she recited Keats over breakfast, was better than food any day."
Gah, I just loved this book so much!
Patchett's loving tribute to her dear friend was a wonderful reading experience.
Even though Ann was doing the telling, I saw this as Lucy's story.Fast forward ten years: I've now read and loved three of Ann Patchett's novels and a fair amount of her nonfiction pieces.
Of course, the book really is about both of them, a true portrait of their friendship, but for me, Ann's part in it assumed its rightful place on this reading.The parts of the book concerning Lucy's drug addiction really stood out for me this time as well: Lucy's ex-boyfriend Andy, thinking if he can just keep her out of New York (where her dealer lives) she'll stay clean--as if Lucy couldn't find drugs everywhere else in the world.
They both end up at the University of Iowa's Writer's Workshop at the same time, and a beautiful, life-long friendship ensues.
I loved the beginning because I went to the University of Iowa.
I lived on Governor Street, and I worked at Great Midwestern Ice Cream Co., where another scene in the book takes place.
The book chronicles her exuberance, her depressions, her self-destructive behavior, and the author's many attempts to try to save a friend she dearly loves.
In the end, it is a beautifully written testament to friendship, and also to the lives of two writers struggling to remain true to their craft.
A justly acclaimed memoir about the friendship between the novelist Ann Patchett (Bel Canto, State Of Wonder) and the memoirist/poet Lucy Grealy (Autobiography Of A Face).The two graduated the same year from Sarah Lawrence, but they became close only when they lived together while studying and teaching at the Iowa Writer’s Workshop.
As the book progresses, and Grealy begins taking drugs because of pain caused by surgeries (including one where her tibia was removed to graft onto her face), you begin to see where the narrative is headed.
Why was she so devoted to Lucy, why were so many others?
The Lucy I got to know in this book did not in any way merit such devotion.
Yes, she was sucker-punched by life as a child.
But a spoiled brat who was sucker-punched by life is still a spoiled brat.
But they are still users.I also did not much like the Ann Patchett described in this book.
And really, their lives were not that enlightening or interesting.I did like the writing, though, and will probably look to read some of Patchett's novels.
“Truth and Beauty” is the story of authors Ann Patchett and Lucy Grealy’s (“Autobiography of a Face”) friendship, commencing from their college days until Lucy’s death in 2002 at age 39.
The title of the book “Truth and Beauty” is taken from a chapter and several references in Lucy’s book.Lucy Grealy is mercurial, irresponsible, needy, and an immensely talented writer.
She tells her own story in “Autobiography of a Face” (which I suggest that you read before “Truth and Beauty”).
Suellen Grealy, Lucy’s sister, outlines her grievances with Ann Patchett in an article in The Guardian from 2004: http://www.guardian.co.uk/books/2004/...
I learned how not to treat friends.
I couldn't believe that Ann didn't end her friendship with Lucy after so many irritating incidents on Lucy's part.
I would have backed out of sharing an apartment with Lucy if she had jumped up on me when I first arrived at the apartment.
The author did not explain to my satisfaction why Lucy continued to have friends.
Surely pity could not have kept her friends hanging around, watching for her to drop crumbs their way.
It seemed to me that Lucy just used her friends.
I was very interested to read about Lucy Grealy, a brilliant poet who died at 39.
But from the very beginning Patchett uses a style that greatly annoyed me and which - by want of a more suitable word - I can only describe as 'passive-aggressive-praise'.
By that I mean showering constant praise on someone (Lucy) and always affirming that this person is more talented than the one giving the praise (Ann), and more intelligent, more fun, more everything.
But the praise is laced with tiny, almost imperceptible razor-sharp needle pricks to make clear that, in fact, Lucy is the looser and Ann the real deal.
My poor review has nothing to do with Patchett's writing ability. I found the story very disturbing, I couldn't understand other than her writing accolades what Patchett got out of this unhealthy friendship. Lucy was such a negative, manipulative person that her 'looks' to me were very much beside the point.
Awful. Both obsequious and patronizing. Touted as a memoir of friendship. But, sweet Mary, I would not want either of the women as my friend.
Is it ethical for Ann Patchett to use Lucy to tell her own story?
Reading Beauty, I could see how her family didn't like the at times ugly portrayal of Lucy, but I think it's not ugliness, but truth.An interesting study in contrasts.
And of course the stories of both Jay Gatsby and Lucy Grealey don't end well, but this does bring me back to ethics.
Writing is salvation for both Patchett and Grealey through their lives.
Patchett appears to reach the same conclusion as Didion, that writing and art and truth and beauty are not salvation.
This is the true story of Patchett's friendship and fascination with fellow author Lucy Grealy from college through Grealy's suicide in her late 30s.
Grealy suffered from Ewing's sarcoma which claimed a part of her face in childhood and then she permitted it to take her self-respect and the rest of her life.
Grealy told her own story in "Autobiography of a Face", and the story should have probably ended there, but Patchett decided the story was hers as well and essentially sold out her friend after her death.
Grealy is pitiful and self-pitying, I found it nearly impossible to like her and even more difficult to respect her struggle.
The friend, Lucy, was a pitiful victim of cancer which left her without the lower half of her face.
She suffered extraordinary pain and disfigurement and eventually addiction to drugs.
Here's the problem: neither Ann nor Lucy are even remotely likable people.
Lucy is a whiny narcissistic selfish bitch and Ann is a boring martyr drudge.
At one point in the book Ann is giving writerly advice to Lucy who is trying to come up with ideas for a novel.
It's clear from the first page that Lucy is going to die, so I am not giving away the ending.
Here's what Patchett has to say of Grealy:"What the story doesn't tell you is that the ant relented at the eleventh hour and took in the grasshopper when the weather was hard, fed him on his tenderest store of grass all winter.
The tortoise, being uninterested in such things, gave his medal to the hare.
Grasshoppers and hares find the ants and tortoises.
They were the ones who brought truth and beauty to the party, which Lucy could tell you as she recited her Keats over breakfast, was better than food any day."
My best friend Audrey gave me this book at the same time she gave me the book "Autobiography of a face".
I would read them in the order they are written (autobiography) first.
The first book is just an interesting story which is well written.
I really liked this book b/c it was mostly about the power of friendship.
We all know the power of a good relationship with a significant other but rarely is the power of a female friendship written about.
I can relate to this book (in some ways) in regards to the girlfriend that gave me the books.

I am often at a loss with memoirs.
I don't know what I'm expecting out of them, or how really to take them.
As they're about lives, they don't conform to narrative conventions, but as they're not histories, they tend to give little of the context I crave.
At worst, it feels like reading about a stranger, without enough of the context to understand.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
i had never read ann patchett nor had i ever read a book where the muse was a friend. there's something so rich and unmined about friendship, especially-I think-between women. I loved this. Every page.
I have just read two books about female friendship back to back--one was the annotated letters of Eleanor Roosevelt and Lorena Hickok and the other was this one, novelist Ann Patchett's memoir of her all-encompassing and troubled friendship with poet Lucy Grealy, who is insecure, needy, and self-destructive, but also incredibly gifted.
I can fully understand why Ann, as a writer, felt that writing would be the best way to work through her grief and make sense of her friendship with Lucy.
The friendship of Lucy Grealy and Ann Patchett was extraordinary and excruciating.
I identify with Ann, and wonder: could I love someone as broken or needy as Lucy?
Would I have the courage to stand up to a self-destructing friend?
Do I have the fortitude to stick by a friend through gruesome surgeries/recoveries?
Or maybe I am more of Lucy--searching for Perfect Love, drawing others in for my own amusement, masking deep hurts with superficial chaos.
So perhaps I am both of Ann and Lucy.
I’m not a big fan of the new paperback’s Ya-Ya-Sisterhood cover, but turns out I AM a big fan of author Ann Patchett.
Realising that worrying about the self-destructive Lucy is counterproductive, and ultimately too draining, Ann decides to devote herself to helping Lucy in practical ways: feeding her, cleaning out her closet, dealing with her bills, sitting by her bedside, and holding her hand - both literally and metaphorically.
"The world is saved through deeds, not prayer, because what is prayer but a kind of worry: I decided then that my love for Lucy would have to manifest in deeds."The memoir covers a roughly 15 year period - through their early years of friendship in Iowa, to the glory years when they both achieve writing success, to the final, painful decline of Lucy who died at age 39.
If pressed, I often followed that "what's your favorite book" question (which always struck me as something kind of ridiculous-- "Halley, what's the favorite step you've ever taken?" How do I even answer that?) with Ann Patchett as one of my favorite authors, but if "Bel Canto" was an arbitrary answer, then that was even more so.
She's building a portrait of someone immeasurably important to her and maybe the tiny pieces of her were exaggerated and tweaked but I do believe that this bigger, beautiful picture is Lucy Grealy to Ann Patchett as she knew her.
It's never really clear if Lucy Grealy was as much of a gigantic, useless asshole as Patchett's episodic descriptions inadvertently make her out to be.
Her book is insipid, narrow, and dull - it reads like an afternoon therapy session - and if she hadn't had such a terrible cancer (and been left so terribly scarred), nobody would be interested in her, much less crave her attention with such slavish devotion.I felt terribly sorry for Lucy Grealy.
But my pity doesn't make Patchett a better writer.
Ann met Lucy in her early 20’s.
Ann beautifully describes her friend in these words, …”Lucy’s loneliness was breathtaking in its enormity.
She was trapped in a room full of mirrors, and every direction she looked in she saw herself, her face, her loneliness.
Love would have to be charmed.” To me, this described Lucy the best.
I commend Ann for being such a great friend.
I am not sure if I would have the patience to be a friend to someone as hard on life and on love, as Lucy.
It's the story of their friendship, of what it's like to be an author, of the expectation for life when you're an artist, what life will mean, and what meaning will be a part of your life.
Hearing the description of Lucy's life made me have an appreciation, if not sadness for her desperation to be recognized for her artistic contribution, and how much darkness she hid inside of her throughout her life.
It was also fun to hear stories about when Patchett herself was starting out as a writer, and how different her process is from that of Grealy's.
