https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27059.Her_Smoke_Rose_Up_Forever
for me, the love affair often begins when i realize that the author or book has a few specific attributes: genuine compassion and empathy for human beings combined with a dark and despairing view of the human condition itself; an imagination so fertile and original that it verges on nuts.
one of the more positive endings has its effervescent narrator joyfully accepting his slow death and consumption by his beloved life-partner; another has a pair of characters excitedly exit the dull, restrictive confines of earth, forever.all of the stories contained within this collection are gems.
my favorite story in the collection.We Who Stole the Dream: tonight the aliens revolt!
James Tiptree Jr. wrote short stories like a goddamned ninja. Each of these well-selected pieces feel perfectly machined, a clockwork of unknowable complexity and beauty. There is humor, sadness, and stunning beauty here, as well as moments of utter darkness, Tipree has stared into the void, and it permeates her worldview and her voice.

I had to take breaks in between to think and reflect, and I couldn't read more than one at a time.
Trying to taste and smell him through beautiful dead nostrils, to love him back with a body that goes dead in the heart of the fire."Houston, Houston, Do You Read?
was probably the most disturbing story in the anthology, especially the idea of the "night side" of people.
I read this one another time because I was convinced I had dreamed it, that surely there wasn't such a weird story in the universe.
I think I like Tiptree best when her stories are in space or virtual space.
John Clute said, “I felt that simply to read a Tiptree story was to yank it, bleeding, from its dark home.” Tiptree herself said one of her pieces was “screaming from the heart.”I had these two sentences up on the screen all day, and I finally realized I wasn’t reviewing because I was hoping they would give me perspective, a master key to this book so I could talk about it as a whole.
It is I think the story that gets most keenly, most viscerally at those things I was talking about up there – sex and death, biological imperatives, dying and dying and dying.
We live by ones and twos in the chinks of your world machine.""Women have no rights, Don, except what men allow us.
our small fumbling attempts to understand the universe betray us.
Nothing will stop you, you have your reasons - saving the race, building a new world, national honor, personal glory, scientific truth, dreams, hopes, plans - does every little sperm have its reasons, thrashing up the pipe?"A Momentary Taste of Beingat least her universes would have to notice us before they could betray us:"A vast impersonal tonnage fell upon him and the stars raveled away from his brain."On the Last Afternoonalways fragile, our relations with the tiptree cosmos.
Some of the shorter stories seemed more like capsule sketches of one of Tiptree's (real name, Alice Sheldon) bleak points.
'Houston, Houston, Do You Read?' was probably my second favorite story, excellently sketched characters and a fresh, precise take on several familiar sf themes (it's hard to even start describing any of the stories without being spoiler-y).
Sheldon's view is almost overwhelmingly bleak, but somehow not bitter - perhaps her precision has something to do with that.
'Tiptree' was often lauded at the time for being an 'obviously' masculine science-fiction writer who nevertheless could tackle subtle feminist themes, and I was occasionally distracted by thinking of the balancing act Sheldon was doing.
And an upfront feminism in many of the stories, well...I think about when they were written, mostly the 1970s, but the ideas and commentary on the world are bracing now, almost nothing seems dated.
Tiptree/Sheldon also likes to start stories midstride, as though the reader is joining something well underway and it's up to you to catch up and figure out any jargon, place names, technology, as though she doesn't have the patience to slow it down and explain it to you.
Brilliantly told and merciless at the end.With Delicate Mad Hands**** Another space adventure, gripping in the telling, that becomes the strangest of love stories.
As with most collections, especially one so lengthy and covering such a wide period in an author's career, there was considerable variance in subjective quality and impact from story to story.
However, as with a few other short story authors I can think of, (Ted Chiang comes to mind.) a mediocre Tiptree story stands tall above the ouvres of many of her peers.One note on format: I liked the organizational layout of this collection.
It was good to read several thematically-related stories together.
I would definitely recommend this particular collection as a prime place to introduce yourself to this phenomenal and often misunderstood writer.
Already I've read one of the most unusual alien invasion concepts I've ever come across ("The Screwfly Solution"), I've also been subjected to a mind-bending idea for future advertising ("The Girl Who Was Plugged In") and a horrifying and beautiful time travel tale ("The Man Who Walked Home").
There's a lot to chew on in these stories; I keep reflecting upon the ideas in several of the stories, particularly The Man Who Walked Home.
Many writers can entertain, but so very few can take up a recurring residence.
she belongs with the gender politics of Octavia Butler, John Varley and David Gerrold, among the bravest of sci fi writers.
Not a light read.
I had read several of these stories before, as well as Alice Sheldon's biography.
"Love is the Plan the Plan is Death" and "The Women Men Don't See" are still daring after multiple reads.
My own two favorites in this omnibus turned out to be stories I hadn't read before: "The Man Who Walked Home" and "Houston, Houston, Do You Read?" I enjoyed both for the tragedies hidden at their core, slowly and expertly unraveled by the author.
This is the first work of science fiction that I can say I've fully enjoyed and, in parts, even admired. As a collection of stories, the volume is naturally uneven, and one could as easily give this four stars as five. The best parts, in my opinion, were the two novellas: a momentary taste of being and slow music. But some of the stories in the beginning of the volume were also wonderful. Of course, much of this is simply a matter of taste. Tiptree, herself, is also an interesting figure. Her message, moreover, genuinely has some depth to it.
Aus beruflichen Gründen, aber auch um den zu ihrer Zeit verbreiteten Vorurteilen gegenüber schreibenden Frauen zu entgehen, wählte sie die Anonymität für ihre schriftstellerische Arbeit.
Der ungewöhnliche Nachname Tiptree, verdankt sich übrigens einer Inspiration durch die gleichnamige englische Marmeladenmarke.Her Smoke Rose Up Forever ist eine Sammlung von Kurzgeschichten, dem bevorzugten Genre von Tiptree.
Die Themen ihrer Geschichten sind von großer Vielfalt gekennzeichnet, aber allen gemein ist ein unterschwelliger Grundton, der eine hoffnungslose Ausweglosigkeit zum Ausdruck bringt.
Düster sind diese Erzählungen, aber stets von einer tiefsinnigen psychologischen Kenntnis unserer menschlichen Natur durchzogen.Das ich dem Band nur vier Sterne gebe, liegt einfach daran, dass mir einige Geschichten besser gefallen haben als andere.
Contents:  ★★1/2 • “The Last Flight of Doctor Ain” • 1969 • short story • mad scientist spreading lethal virus • review 
★★★ • “The Screwfly Solution” • 1977 • short story • exterminating humans like flies • review 
★★★★★ • “The Girl Who Was Plugged In” • 1973 • proto-cyberpunk novella • review 
★★★ • “And I Have Come Upon This Place by Lost Ways” • 1972 • novelette • scientist goes his own way on a planet • review 
★★★★★ • “The Women Men Don't See” • 1973 • novelette • about alien women • review 
The introduction to this collection discusses the change in status for the author when it was discovered that James Tiptree Jr. was really Alice Sheldon.
Sheldon/Tiptree has some of the swankiest titles ever devised - little pieces of standalone/standup poetry, starting with the book title from the short story contained within.
Sheldon sends humans into space, oblivion, Rubik's cube quandaries, down shit's creek without proper equipment, and up a shaft of misty light.
I want to read more Sheldon work, but I'm not sure I have enough antidepressants to get me through.
Read one story, pick up something else lightheartedly hopeful, repeat.
Under the masculine persona of James Tiptree Jr., and occasionally as the masked-woman Raccoona Sheldon, she published a body of disturbing, complex, and often entrancing science fiction short stories dealing with gender and violence, social exclusion, isolation and the longing for intimacy, and the biological drives that can push a species to survive — or to its doom.
So when the young woman in this story walks at night through a dangerous big city — Chicago, maybe — radiantly happy in her job as a walking courier, walking without without fear, in confidence, in a world without men -- I loved it.
Like any short fiction collection, there are lots of speedbumps, but among some unforgettable reads.
Sheldon/Tiptree is graphic: she writes trancelike sex and gut-wrenching violence.
Stories alternate between catchy, aggressive prose, and overly-poetic narrative (I prefer the former.) Led by memorable, eye-opening moments like "The Screwfly Solution," "A Momentary Taste of Being," and "We Who Stole the Dream", as well as historically-critical works ("The Girl Who Was Plugged In" "And I Awoke and Found Me...") and important socially critical works ("Houston, Houston, Do You Read?" The Women Men Don't See").
Alice Sheldon writing is one SF writer I wish I could talk to.
Read these all again to discuss them with Luke on the SFBRP podcast! As great as ever. Please see my previous review.
Your Faces Filled of Light!" 1976"Houston, Houston, Do You Read?" 1976"With Delicate Mad Hands" 1981"A Momentary Taste of Being" 1975"We Who Stole the Dream" 1978"Her Smoke Rose Up Forever" 1974"Love Is the Plan the Plan Is Death" 1973, received the Nebula Award for best short story"On the Last Afternoon" 1972"She Waits for All Men Born" 1976"Slow Music" 1980"And So On, and So On" 1971It is difficult to choose a favorite.
I might do the latter, given time.)So what was it like returning to these stories?It's exactly like revisiting works of art you admired, and now find them even more powerful, impressive, and disturbing.I found myself slowing down to reread paragraphs and whole stories, savoring Tiptree's astonishing ability to cram details and information into compressed sentences, admiring the way she built hints and clues throughout a tale to set up its conclusion.
Tiptree's use of hard science places this collection powerfully in hard sf's tradition, and also offers a fascinating path for feminist sf (a fine antecedent for Joan Sloncewski).These stories verge on the horror genre, but are more horrific than generic.
Also, every one of these stories is about sex or the biological reproductive imperative; sometimes it is so forced as to break the logic of the story and other times it generalizes a nuanced relationship into a simple sexual one that is boring.
Why Tiptree/Sheldon has to get this into every story is beyond me, but many of them would have been better served without it, while in the better ones it is an essential ingredient.Conclusion: The few great stories here are so bright that I would recommend this book.
The apocalyptic return to eden and the dance of eros and thanatos are the key themes of James Triptree jr./Raccoona Sheldon/Alice Sheldon so probably not beach reading, yet brilliant nonetheless.
Turns so many conventions on their heads.First, it's interesting, as we find out by the end, having the male (Don's) Point of View character while the woman (Ruth) is actually the story's protagonist.
Tragedy ensues when girl falls in love.****With Delicate Mad HandsLike "The Women Men Don't See", this is another story of a woman who feels more at home with aliens than with our fellow humans (or at least the male half of the species.)Carol Page, known as CP as well as a plethora of insulting nicknames, has a face apparently even a mother can't love.
Every single story in this collection follows the same pattern: the main character(s) tries to escape from a trap (environmental, physical, social, and/or economic in nature) and, after much suffering, fails.
Certain stories are really novellas: ‘A Momentary Taste of Being’ comes in at about ninety pages.
‘Slow Music’ is the least depressing of the bunch and verges on being light-hearted at points, although there’s still a tragic death and eventual loss of hope.
These stories are probably best read individually, or mixed in with those of other writers.
A five hundred page collection is hard to bear.
The only Tiptree work I'd read prior to this was "The Screwfly Solution" in a short story anthology, and it was one of my favorites in that work, so I was excited to read this collection.
These are not happy stories.
Primary is death, and sex, and conflict between sexes, and humanity's drive to action even if it kills us.
But mostly death.
This is a grim collection of stories, but it's not bleak.
Favorites:"On the Last Afternoon""Slow Music""The Screwfly Solution" "We Who Stole the Dream""Your Faces, O My Sisters!
A phenomenal science fiction author, with an incredibly interesting life.
I think it's an important read, especially for anyone interested in feminist science fiction of the 70s.Particularly highlights for me were "The Screwfly Solution", "The Girl Who Was Plugged In", "A Momentary Taste of Being", "Your Faces, O My Sisters!
Your Faces Filled with Light", "Houston, Houston, Do You Read?", "With Mad Delicate Hands" and "Slow Music".
I think "With Mad Delicate Hands" might have been my favourite from a purely story standing, with Pig being such a memorable character, and her torment seeming so real.A huge collection that was dense and tight.
I would argue that her works are a reflection of her time and her life, and even demonstrates that our resistance to voices like hers, shows there is still a long way to go in terms of women and their place in society.If you're so inclined, you can read The Screwfly Solution and Love Is the Plan the Plan Is Death online at the links provided.
Nicht alle Geschichten sind 5 Sterne, aber die guten überwiegen bei weitem.
One of my goals this year was to start reading books that have won the James Tiptree, Jr. Award, which is presented for stories that explore aspects of gender, primarily in SciFi and Fantasy.
James Tiptree, Jr. is a pseudonym for Alice Bradley Sheldon, who wrote hard science fiction for years without readers knowing she was a woman.
Tiptree is a perfect namesake for this award because so many of her own stories explore gender and sexuality in challenging and innovative ways.
"The Screwfly Solution," which is one of the best short stories I've read in years, involves increasing numbers of attacks by men against women.
COMPLETED 5 March 2016After listening to the ladies on the Galactic Suburbia podcast talking about a number of Tiptree stories, I was minded to buy the ebook version of this and slowly get it finished.
You’re scared of me and I’m still here with a bookmark in me, which means you should finish me!”.Maybe one day, but this is just not the right point in my life.CONTINUING TO READ: 28 August 2015 - The Galactic Suburbia podcast has been discussing Tiptree this month and their enthusiasm combined with their discussion of some of the stories in this book, make me want to pick it up again.
