https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/846043.The_Ghost_of_Blackwood_Hall
The scam begs them for their hard-earned money to support a privately owned orphanage, even though the organization offers no proof of existing.
Yet the girls donate through the recommended outlets: the girls are instructed to put their money into hollow trees in strategic locations in the local forest.
Seems completely legit, right?Oh, and also, these generous girls somehow also to get themselves BOTH brainwashed and blackmailed, so they will continue to donate their money into the trees, which, remember, is supposed to then be delivered to an orphanage.Nancy Drew knows this scheme is ridiculous, yet she has a difficult time finding the culprits.
Never doubt Nancy Drew!
Yet another great Nancy Drew mystery with a hint of New Orleans seasoning.
Pace=3: This particular author offers an odd assortment of issues as Nancy investigates: for me, the red herrings kept the pages turning for a one-sit read.Plot=4: Surprisingly adult-oriented, Nancy investigates the possibility of a group of thieves involved in scamming the elderly and needy.
If you've never read a book in this series, I'd recommend this one also."Moss-Covered Mansion" - 1941 - 2.4"Ghost of Hall" - 1948 - 3.2Keene Average Rating = 2.8
My absolute FAVORITE book for many years as a child! This book shaped my existence!
Another Nancy Drew classic! The story is, in every sense of the word, well-written. A seemingly unsolvable mystery, wild adventures, phantoms, conniving villains... there is so much more to love about this book! And who can forget about the classic moment when Nancy gets schooled by the very criminals she is trying to catch? Classic!
Enjoyable mystery, nice creepy bits. I also really love any time Nancy and Neds wacky relationship is shown. There is a problem with how interactions with a POC went. Fairly.....racist, perhaps? This was written in 1948, so it is unfortunately a sign of the times. But it did bring down the rating considerably because this is no longer 1948.
In this mystery, I found myself as frustrated as Nancy as she tried to help Ms. Putney and the other girls, despite their continual trust in the thieves who were tricking them. I liked that the bad guys in this mystery actually seemed to be able to upset Nancy's work better than the usual suspects--they often go after her with scare tactics or physical harm, but these thieves turned her own clients against her. I thought things at the Mansion got a little convoluted with the glowing figure and sliding door and everything, but overall it was a good mystery.
A woman's husband dies, and she thinks that his ghost has come to visit her, and upon his request she buries her jewelry in the woods, just to have it replaced by fakes.
Now they have ghosts to deal with along with anything else bad that could happen to them.
Note: I see that there are certain myths about hypnosis that are presented in this book.
1. You will not do anything that is against your morals when you are hypnotized, 2.
No one can hypnotize you for hours on end.
Hypnosis is not of the devil, nor is it of the occult.Note: 1948 edition
I read these for relaxation and for nostalgia.
They are pleasant reads with interesting characters, perfect for some stress free reading at bedtime.
This was one of the better Nancy Drew mysteries over the last few volumes.
Nancy finds herself trying to save a widow from herself as she is under the influence of false mediums pretending to give her instructions from her deceased husband to steal her money.
Nancy discovers that not only is the widow effected but a number of young women in River Heights.
If you like Nancy Drew Mysteries you should like this as well.
Damn, how many rich widows *are* there in River Heights?A mysterious woman uses many aliases, one of them being Mrs. Floyd Pepper!
Oh, and she follows the girls on a trip to New Orleans.
Bess is even more of a basket case than usual.
And Nancy has a dog named Togo, but I'm pretty sure he hasn't appeared before.A phony stock scheme, hypnosis and stolen jewelry.
Nancy is knocked unconscious by an unknown assailant, and drugged into unconsciousness with a "deadly sleeping potion".
Gets kidnapped and also gets mired in quicksand along with Ned.Apparently you can cure hypnosis with a bottle of phosphorous and oil.
To all those hardcore Nancy Drew fans (like me) this one is yet another thrilling adventure on Nancy's list. Bonus, if you're a fan of ghost or horror stories. The story has a dark and mysterious theme going around as Nancy smells something fishy at New Orleans and you can feel the intensity of this page-turner. The spooky aura of the story makes it even more exciting. Keene has done it again and this time,with a ghostly touch that the readers will definitely enjoy!
This was the first Nancy Drew book I ever read as a 9-year-old child. I remember thinking it was very spooky. Now, re-reading it more than 30 years later, I can't say that I still find it to be spooky, but I was captivated by the complicated scam that was being run against many unsuspecting individuals who thought they were speaking to the ghosts of their loved ones!
When I was about 10 or 11, my mother signed me up for a book of the month club. Every month, I received two Nancy Drew or two Hardy Boys books. Every month, they were both read in a week and I was asking when the next book would be there!I thank my mother for recognizing and encouraging my love of reading.
This was the first book I read of the series and my favorite. It had it all-ghosts, secret passageways, New Orleans, séances. It would be a shame if the time setting of these books is so alien to the young readers of today, but if they give it a chance, I think they can fall in love with the series just like I did in my youth. Yes, I admit, I reread a couple of them as an adult.
Wholesome with a capital W! Despite the dated language and somewhat outlandish premise of these books, I love the Nancy Drew series that I read and reread as a young girl. Also, this is a girl with smarts, spunk and courage. Think Dorothy in the Wizard of Oz with a convertible.
Yes. Yes I AM reading this for a future YA edition of Horror 101..
I love this book!
Nancy Drew helps solve a mystery for an older woman about her jewelry. Also, Nancy and her friends travel to New Orleans. A fun and entertaining mystery.
This one was vaguely familiar to me from my childhood. A quick read, and not horrible. A seemingly easy solve for Nancy (again), but she had a lot more help this time from her father and friends.
It's a great book. I love all Nancy drew mysteries. I'm studying this one for ideas for a Nancy drew mystery party.
This was my favorite Nancy Drew
Love my Nancy Drew books. The books we girls share with our very best friends, decades ago and now.
You should never read this before you go to bed! I did and i was too afraid to even go the bathroom! ahhhh...ghosty!
Loved these books as a kid!
This story seemed extra flimsy, with hypnotizing people and performing fake seances.The majority of people were almost stubbornly gullible.
And I'm surprised that after 25 books, Nancy does not carry any kind of protection on her.
No ID necessary- assuming a fake identity is as easy as making one up on the fly.
And speaking of flying, it seemed as straightforward as hailing a cab, as open ended as riding a bus- being able to get off at one stop or another.
That's one of my favorite things about these books- getting a snapshot of life back then, and being able to appreciate anew how things have changed.

I prefer to read the original versions, I received the condensed version via Mel Cat. It seems to me that poor Nancy should be diagnosed with Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy or CTE for as many times as she has been conked on her noodle.
Interesting storyline.
cameo as rewardhannah went places with or looking for nancy
*2.5
