https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/631246.The_Wonder_That_Was_India
The work is polymathic in it's outlook and covers nearly all known aspects of the Indian civilization from its geography, its literature, governance, religion, philosophy to science and even coinage.Indian culture and its civilization are amongst the oldest in the world and perhaps one of few which are still intact in pretty much the same form as when they were created.
Natural decline?) according to the author Harappans may have settled down in the South India and could have been the Dasas referred to in literature, the Brahmi script is also probably a derivative of the Harappan script but nothing can be claimed with certainty.
If you were to take only a sample of Indian history (prior to the arrival of the Mughals) and examine it, the sheer number of dynasties and empires that passed through the Indian stage are mindboggling.
A. L Basham’s work is a consolidation of the data and writings available at the time of its first publication on how rich a history India had prior to the arrival of the Muslim invaders.
The first big chapter in the book is a brief history on the dynasties that rose and fell across the length and breadth of the subcontinent in the eras gone by.
One could also criticize some of the author's assumptions (i.e., that Indian culture "went into decline" with the growing political dominance of Islamic groups in the 16th century, or that history is generalizable at all), but these would be cheap shots.
For a 20th century British historian, Basham is remarkably anti-imperialist, avoiding the dominant "they need overlords" narrative of many of his English colleagues, and taking pains to point out the great achievements coming from all aspects of Indian society.In short, this book is recommended to anyone who is generally curious about early and medieval Indian history, a relatively brief introduction for the intelligent non-expert.
Focuses mainly on Indian pre-islamic cultural and religious history (Basham's specialty I think is Buddhism).
Recommended if you like Buddhism, the Vedas and Sanskrit.
I personally liked it as you can be reasonably certain Basham is not bigoted.
One drawback I see is Basham's over reliance on only written records which handicaps him in this period, quite a bit of the book reads like an English translation of the Arthashastra (he's not ready to speculate even when he himself repeatedly states that the Arthashastra maybe unreliable for actual "history on the ground").
Breathtakingly brilliant! ❤️
From the early civilizations in the west to invasion of Aryans and early ages of "Hindu" society, you will experience what we are told in the school days was just a half baked story, hiding the details that may change your view created by the present political activities.In the book, AL Basham has explained the passage of kings, formation and re-formation of religions, making of the norms of society and gives a perfect picture of what India was like when the Mughals first saw it.
Some of his language can be excused as indicative of the time in which he wrote the book, 7 years after the Partition, but otherwise he does a great job of covering Indian history up to the High Middle Ages with thoroughness and equanimity.
His writing is also very engaging.As the foreward in this new edition points out, the book stops "before the coming of the Muslims" because Basham didn't have any background in Persian, not as any sort of "statement" about that part of Indian history.
The Wonder That Was India by A.L. Basham is a classic interpretation of Indian culture that for over 60 years has been an introduction to the unique culture that covered a subcontinent up until the arrival of the Muslims.Basham ordered the book by discipline first with history—both pre-recorded and recorded—followed by government, society, everyday life, religion, the arts, and finally language and literature.
This allowed for a generally reader friendly book as Basham covered the history of the subcontinent and then used that background to show the societal and cultural developments.
Imagine that Will Durant had penned a loving history of just the Indian subcontinent, and you'll have something very close to The Wonder That Was India. Like Durant, the author covers politics, society, economics, religion, arts, and literature. He writes as a straightforward admirer of Indian culture, with a graceful pen.
The author begins the book praising the Indian civilization in the introduction chapter and I was afraid that the rest of the book would be an uncritical glorification of India's past.
But what followed was an honest description of actual facts to understand Indian civilization.
Some of the theories described in the book have been falsified or are updated now, but that would not be a negative mark, as the author at the time of publication of this book had made exhaustive use of existing sources to describe ancient India.
Being a foreign author, his knowledge in Indian languages is remarkable.
There are claims that need citationse.g. girls were less important than sons, the citation about "Rajputs killing infant girls" is after vedic times.
Women had rights to choose husbands but they were supposed to be submissive, this claim also needs citation, otherwise the claim is self-contradicting.
Before that Varna of someone was decided after finishing education and not by birth.All in all many claims specially about women's secondary status are without citations, so can't buy the claims from this survey.
This is contradicting other historians' study (with citations) that in Vedic times women were treated equally.
If you want to have a detailed overview of the cultural history of ancient India, this is a great book. I only found two drawbacks though: 1. The book talks less about the social life of that period. It might be because of lack of resources. Need to check that. 2. Since it was written long back, it covers some theories which are no longer consistent with modern findings. (like Aryan Invasion Theory).If you are a history enthusiast, do read this book.
I have not read any other historical perspective on pre-Muslim era other than Basham's work. Though I am currently reading The Moghuls by Harbans Mukhia that is considered one of the masterpiece, I am yet to find anything close to Basham's work! Strongly recommended for people loving to read Indian History.
was hooked.....
Basham's book is recommended for students and aspirants who prepare for Civil Services in India.
Secondly, he was the guide for PhD of Romila Thapar another renowned historian of Ancient India.
The book definitely gives a fresh look to Ancient India.
Therefore, while calling it one of the best books on ancient India for the students, I have given only three stars.
V. Raman, or for that purpose, Narain, a twenty nine year old young man whom the Western World knew as Vivekananda, the disciple of Ramakrishna on whom even Max Muller wrote a biography, to the present day intellectually awake Indians who fully understand the Western Philosophy, Basham made some amusing judgemental remarks.
Arthur Basham has given a very well researched and detailed account of pre-Islamic India.
I wonder why our history books don't teach about them in as much detail as the Mughal or the British empire.The historical accounts of religions especially Buddhism and Jainism were fascinating.
The details about the caste system and its flexibility were intriguing- more so when you know the kind of rigid structure it has taken in recent centuries.I especially liked the development of language in ancient India.
If you can bear through those minor phases of boredom, then ancient India would seem no less than a wonder !
This is an accurate depiction of Indian culture and anyone who calls him/her an Indian can start understanding why. There are tons of new citation regarding India's scientific contribution to the world but most significant and almost entirely proscribed is the mechanics of Sanskrit language that gave rise to almost all the modern languages as we know them today. However, Indian writing was fraught with pedantry and excessive adulation to the king making it of low quality overall, with few exceptions off course. Overall, this book is a masterpiece filled with some quality research and worth reading once.
It is not uncommon that information overload has the capacity to impede judgment, not in its strict rational sense but of how much information should be filtered and let through the outlet to the audience.
But beyond that remains the work of delivering the analysed and filtered data to a group as diverse, as is the globe and make them understand the serving without a personal interaction.If what is then served is in no way tiring, it leaves the recipient appalled.
This book is written and delivered in a similar manner around the subject of Indian ancient history.
This is a dense book.
I definitely recommend this book to anyone interested in pre-Mughal history.
The thematic approach is a nice break from many books focusing on a timeline.
This book was written quite some time ago and there are times, particularly when the author add some of their own opinions or thoughts, where it shows.
This book also goes off of the Aryan theory, so you will get a lot of that In this book as well.
I feel like I walked away from this book with a lot more information and knowledge on India, which is why I read this book in the first place.
This was the first book that was recommended to me by a professor in Grad school. I told them I'd get right on that, so a few decades later I did. It has just the right amount of detail for a serious non-specialist. The age of the book shows here and there and it has a very end of the empire British feel to it, but the scholarship is first rate and fair. My complaint (based on no research whatsoever) is that the Greek influence on Indian culture is surely over emphasized. The appendices are a nice addition.
From Harappa to coming of Mughals, the amazing history which passes through Buddha, Maurya's , Gupta's and many others. What a delight to read an incredible history of our Incredible nation. if someone is interested in understanding the roots and development of our magnificent civilization, this book is a must read.
Excellent book for comprehensive study of art and culture of ancient India. It is helpful for civil service aspirants. Shame that little is taught in our schools. Students must be acquainted with it to make themselves proud of their history.
It is an excellent book with immense time and research put in it. This is a go to book if any one wants to read or understand Ancient India and Indian culture. I simply love it and I would seriously and totally suggest this to every History lover.
An objective and comprehensive take on ancient history with more insight into the socio-economic conditions of people in those times unlike the chronological listing of empires. A must read for history aficionados.
The comparative art and architecture in this book is exemplary. Also it's great to know about the contribution of India to world. Author choice of words is par excellence.
Very nice and detailed book. It gives insightful knowledge about Ancient India.
Interestingly, the author compares the works of Shakespeare to Kalidasa, and I hope that the revival of literature will facilitate in the expansion of the readership of the Ancient Indian literature.In conclusion, the author tries to explain the resilience and optimism of India despite the adversities as follows: “The quiet and gentle happiness which has at all times pervaded Indian life where oppression, disease and poverty have not overclouded it will surely not vanish before the more hectic ways of the West.” About sixty years have passed since the publication of this book, and India has shown unprecedented growth to the dismay of several people.
Uses archeology and records and travelers' accounts both from Greece and China.The first thing surveyed is of course the basic history.
The invasions, the kings -- the foreign contacts, down to Alexander the Great -- and times of order and chaos.
The practice of spying on the populace, even raising orphans for it.The main four castes and the occupation group ones, which are a lot more flexible and can vanish and appear and go up and down in status.
While women marrying down was generally disapproved of, men could marry down easily for their second wives, upon a time.
And more obscure ones.And the arts.
'The Wonder That Was India' is a book of history intended for the audience of Western countries.
Because of this we find numerous references to legends, myths and kings of western world, so that the intended audience can correlate with the corresponding piece of Indian history.
There may be references to few unknown events or figures for an Indian reader not well-versed in Western history.
The author of this book solidly believes in Aryan Invasion Theory.
Whereas another history book, 'India : History' by John Keay presents both views and lets reader decide, this book can be noted in its steadfast belief in Aryan Invasion Theory.
from wikipedia:Arthur Llewellyn Basham was born on May 24, 1914, in Loughton, Essex, the son of Abraham Arthur Edward Basham and Maria Jane Basham née Thompson.
His father had been a journalist who served in the Indian Army at Kasauli, near Simla during World War I, and it was the stories that his father told him about India that first introduced him to the culture of the country he would devote his professional career to.[1:] His mother was also a journalist and short story writer further instilling a love of language and literature.
