https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/368293.The_Economic_Consequences_of_the_Peace
It is downright scary how accurate JMK was when he predicted that harsh economic sanctions would lead Germany down the path to extremism...another book that should be read by elected officials.
Needed to get more acquainted with Keynes, so I'm starting at the beginning.This is one of those classics which have permeated modern thought so thoroughly that you feel as though you've read it already.
Keynes feared further mass starvation, which is one of the few things he got wrong here.
Instead, there is the chaos of the Weimar years, hyperinflation, Hitler, and so on.
You've likely heard this story already.Keynes tells it clearly.
If the rest of his stuff is this lucid, I'll be mighty impressed.The last of the reparations, by the way, were only paid off two years ago (2010).
I can't speak to the merits of Keynes' economic analysis or his evaluation of the post-world war international situation, even to compare it to subsequent historical events.
The oddest parts about this, in some ways, are the passages playing up the long years of suffering endured by Europe and the bleak expected future of tired populations too hungry to rebel against ineffectual governments.
He felt -- as many probably did -- that he might be writing at the end of the world.
They did in many ways see the end of their world.
The author underlines Clemenceau's point of view:> in the eyes of one who took the view that European civil war is to be regarded as normal, or at least a recurrent, state of affairs for the future, and that the sort of conflicts between organized great powers which have occupied the past hundred years will also engage the next.
Keynes writes "the war has bitten into his consciousness somewhat differently from ours, and he neither expects nor hopes that we are at the threshold of a new age."Moving on from the French Foreign Minister, Keynes describes Woodrow Wilson, often refered to as "The President".
Keynes understood the saddling Germany with crippling debt would destabilize its economy and stir up a lot of political ire of ordinary Germans and no good would come from it.
He didn't know it would lead to the next world war but anybody looking at Versailles Treaty could see that it was not going to lead to a stable postwar settlement.
Political actors, as usual, were not looking at the long or even medium range consequences of their policies.
We can look back at their folly and shake our heads but how much more far-sighted are our politicians in the age of climate change and Trump.
All came to the conference with very different objectives.History has cast Clemenceau in the role of arch villain for the consequences of the peace terms imposed on Germany but Keynes saw it in a different light and cast the blame in a very different direction.
Not only was Woodrow Wilson not fit for purpose but, so certain was he in his own ability (notice a trend here?) that he refused to accept advice even from his appointed advisers.The consequence was that the negotiated peace treaty was so unfair that there never was any hope that it terms could be fulfilled by those nations upon whom it was imposed, not within even two generations.
Before I started reading the General Theory, I thought it useful to get acquainted with Keynes' style of writing with this book, the readability of which was assured to me in Ahamed's Lords of Finance.Keynes writes in a somewhat archaic fashion, which shouldn't surprise (you might want to check out a Youtube film in which he applauds the abandoning of the Gold Standard, Keynes could feature in any Downton Abbey episode).
But the book is no difficult read, especially if you are a little familiar with the Versailles Treaty.
Even all property owned by private German citizens abroad was declared forfeited.
Ya conociendo el desenlace de la historia, al leer este libro que trata principalmente sobre el Tratado de Versalles y en general sobre la posguerra de la Primera Guerra Mundial y del porvenir de Europa, uno no deja de vislumbrar cómo las decisiones mal encaminadas que se tomaron en a posguerra (y en este tratado en particular) fueron el claro germen de la Segunda Guerra Mundial y por ende de todo lo que siguió a ella.

An eloquent book toof not only Economics, but compassion.
The aftermath of world war one led the victorious countries to demand of Germany Reparations which were not only impossible to fulfill but ultimately would prevent the Global economy from recovering any time soon.
Keynes proposed a more realistic and compassionate solution to the aftermath of world war one which would have fed the global economies, and ultimately allowed Germany to recover sufficiently to pay a significant amount to the victors.
Had his plans been implemented I think there could be a strong case that world war II could have been avoided.
Very interesting and helpful to anyone trying to understand the fundamental connection between the Treaty of Versailles, the Great Depression, the rise of fascism, and the resultant second world war. It also gives insight into one of the most influential economists of the modern age- always useful. His thoughts, perhaps unsurprisingly, seem mostly to have been misinterpreted or watered down- which is both unsurprising, and probably why it seems like most people today have a low opinion of Keynes.
Good book.This interesting one is about the European economy after WW1. It helps you to understand some "shoulds", "coulds" and "woulds" in the aftermath of the WW.
Keynes, pedantic prognosticatorJDN 2456589 PDT 15:46A review of The Economic Consequences of the Peace by John Maynard Keynes.The bad news: Most of the book is spectacularly boring to read, as Keynes deluges us with economic figures. I'm an aspiring economist, and even my eyes began to glaze over. Chapters IV, V, and VI can be safely skipped entirely.  One interesting thing about the figures is how small they seem; he recommends reparation funds of only $5 billion—and thinks even this may be too
Change of the League of Nations into a new body: "[...]that is no reason for any of us to decry the League, which the wisdom of the world may yet transform into a powerful instrument of peace, and which in Articles XI-XVII has already accomplished a great and beneficent achievement."4.
It is not impossible that the progress of science should bring within our reach methods and devices by which the whole standard of life would be raised immeasurably, and a given volume of products would represent but a portion of the human effort which it represents now." In a later work, Economic Possibilities for our Grandchildren, he actually expands upon this concept into a (highly, uncannily accurate) prediction of the 21st century economy.4.
But escape was possible, for any man of capacity or character at all exceeding the average, into the middle and upper classes, for whom life offered, at a low cost and with the least trouble, conveniences, comforts, and amenities beyond the compass of the richest and most powerful monarchs of other ages.
It was interesting to read a contemporary account of the Treaty of Versailles and to see how Keynes was able to foretell that the injust peace inflicted by the treaty on Germany would create an atmosphere amenable to intolerable reactionary philosophies formed by "whatever instruction of hope, illusion, or revenge is carried to him on the air." Keynes saw that the punitive measures in the treaty would impoverish the German people to a point beyond endurance, where they could be carried by ideologues.
Keynes' predictions do not enumerate the horrors that he sees as possible, but they do clearly indicate that this treaty could and will be the catalyst for a confrontation like no other.
As it happened, he wrote his most famous book, "General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money," during the Great Depression of the 1930s, when government spending was needed to boost the economy.
However, in my opinion, regardless of the merits (or demerits, depending on your viewpoint) of his prescription during the depression, his most astute and amazing book is "The Economic Consequences of the Peace." It analyzes the deplorable nature of the Versailles Conference after World War I, which burdened Germany with obligations it could not possible meet and therefore led quite directly to World War II - an outcome Keynes accurately predicted.
John Maynard Keynes eloquently explains beautifully why Germany cannot pay for the reparation and the demands inflicted upon them by the allies.
John Maynard Keynes also suggests amendments to the Treaty of Versallies to ensure that yes, Germany can pay some reparations ($10bn), but it's done in a way that they can actually pay.
Plus, one that can ensure economic growth in europe is revived.But it's an excellent economic book on why the Treaty of Versallies is utterly hopeless and shows why hyperinflation in Germany, the rise of Hitler, economic problems for europe for two decades was in a way, inevitable.
Most of us are familiar with Lord Keynes' polemic against the "Carthaginian peace" of Versailles. Indeed much of the work is Keynes' examination of the Versailles treaty and his conclusion that the peace would only lead to trouble: "Never in the lifetime of men now living has the universal element in the soul of man burnt so dimly". But the initial chapters of the book are dedicated to a psychological examination of the four men who were the arbiters of peace-- and ends with an old fashioned dress down of Wilson. Worth reading.
While the language can make it difficult to get through, this is a great period piece describing the brutal realities of the Treaty of Versailles, and its eventual economic consequences. The book makes a great case against sanctions of all sorts, with regard to both the internal misery inflicted upon the peoples of the country in question, but also how that misery may spill over and bring, at times, violent externalities to neighboring countries.
This book offered a poignant analysis of the economic consequences of the agreements in the Treaty of Versailles, and surrounding events. Keynes's insights are both fascinating and enlightening. The explication of the inextricable links between nations, economies, trades, war reparations, power struggles, and leverages is gourmet food for thought, reminding readers that no events exist in silos apart from their historical contexts and players.
The Versailles Treaty was bad here is why as seen in 1919The book is free on gutenberg and theres a good free reading at https://librivox.org/the-economic-con...I underlined more sections in this book than any book I can remember. With Brexit, Bank Bailouts and walls on the Mexican border unwise treaties are making a comeback.
The purpose of this book is to explain Wilhelmine Germany's economic condition in 1919, in order to explain the consequences of the peace imposed onto the defeated Germany.The author explains this lucidly with a mass of statistics large enough to be comprehensive, yet compact enough to be comprehensible.
And now we know why Mr. Keynes was against the Treaty of Versailles, why he left, and most importantly why we all had to fight a Second World War. Simply a fascinating read and pieced brilliantly together for an easy to read form for 95% of the population anywhere.
There are few books that can cause a person to rethink how they view the world. For me, this was one of those books. The connection Keynes makes between the Treaty of Versailles and the rise of Hitler is very eye-opening to the long-term effects of economic oppression.
Keynes's insights all have the ring of truth, and the reader wants more.Most of the book, however, is taken up with detailed analyses of total German wealth and their ability to pay under different clauses of the reparation treaties.
Keynes gives one a real sense of how important minor clauses in the treaty could be for the fate of Europe and for millions of German citizens.
The weakening of the Central European empires in Keynes' view would be a mistake for the political stability of Europe.In his own words, "The policy of reducing Germany to servitude for a generation, of degrading the lives of millions of human beings, and of depriving a whole nation of happiness should be abhorrent and detestable; even if it were possible , even if it enriched ourselves, even if it did not sow the decay of the whole civilized life of Europe.
Society was working not for the small pleasures of today but for the future security and improvement of the race, in fact for 'progress'.""The glory of the nation you love is a desirable end, but generally to be obtained at your neighbor's expense.""Men have devised ways to impoverish themselves and one another; and prefer collective animosities to individual happiness."
This book is his comment on the Treaty of Versailles, written in the autumn of 1919, just a couple of months after it was signed.His chief focus is, as the title suggests, the economic consequences, especially the determination to make Germany pay for the cost of the war.
Keynes makes no comment of the border changes established at Versailles but does point out that the British Prime Minister LLoyd George was less enthusiastic about reparations that the vengeful French but changed course when he realised that the 'hang the Kaiser' and 'make Germany pay' moods in GB might adversely affect his chances at the upcoming general election if he didn't harden his stance.
Ho letto questo libro per motivi di studio: tra una lunga rosa di titoli, ho pensato che fare la con
You cannot restore Central Europe to 1870 without setting up such strains in the European structure and letting loose such human and spiritual forces  as, pushing beyond frontiers and races, will overwhelm not only you and your "guarantees," but your institutions, and the existing order of your Society.The danger confronting us, therefore, is the rapid depression of the standard of life of the European populations to a point which will mean actual starvation for some (a point already reached in Russia and approximately reached in Austria).
So it is no surprise that WWI changed national perceptions of their histories, or that German memories of their treatment after WWI led to a social memory of mistreatment.Snippets from Keynes• The primary figures at the Paris Peace Conference were the Council of Four: Lloyd David for Britain, Clemenceau for France, Wilson for the U.S., and Orlando for Italy).
