https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8540.Blood_Sport
He has a three-week vacation coming, and this is probably not good news for a man who has no life outside of his work and who is thinking of ending his own life.Just as his vacation begins though, Hawkins's boss asks him to accompany him and his family on a Sunday afternoon boating outing.
Obviously, this is going to be a very dangerous mission, But his adversaries have no idea that Hawkins is already contemplating ending his own life, so what does he have to lose?This book is a bit unusual for a Dick Francis novel in that most of it takes place in the U.S., rather than the U.K. And, while there are horses involved, the main protagonist is not actually part of the racing world.
As I think about all of his books (yes, this review covers all of his books, and yes I've read them all) I think about a moral ethical hero, steeped in intelligence and goodness embroiled in evil machinations within British horse racing society - either directly or indirectly.
The heroes aren't always horse jockies, they can be film producers, or involve heroes engaged in peripheral professions that somehow always touch the horse racing world.But more than that, Francis's heroes are rational human beings.
The hero's thoughts reveal a vulnerability that is touching, while his actions are always based on doing the right thing to achieve justice.
A very smart, timeless mystery.When Dave Tellers prized race horses, that are worth millions, start mysteriously disappearing and then there is an attempt on his life, he enlists the help of Gene Hawkins, an English agent, who is known for his brilliance at solving cases.
Gene is extremely methodical and has an amazing gift of perception, on the flip side he is also in a constant state of depression which he is able to hide very well.
The racing, siring, tattooing and care of these stately animals are all very interesting aspects of this great mystery.
Since this book was originally published in 1967, in many ways it seemed like a step back to a simpler time for me.
The story centers around the search for 3 missing breeding stallions, and it was made interesting even for someone who knows very little about the world of horse racing and breeding.
In many ways this book is as much about him and his emotional roller coaster as it is about the search for the horses.
I don’t know if it was the British accent of the narrator or the fact that the first time you meet Gene he’s pulling a gun out from under his pillow, which is a very Bond thing to do.
Dick Francis is an awesome writer. What more can I say? Not much. Another very Goodread.
I love this one by DF. It's different. It takes place mainly in the American west. The hero, unlike most DF heroes is a man who is used to danger. He is a burnt out spy and somehow through the action of the book learns to appreciate life again. Like all DF's books the fun is in watching the hero cleverly foil the bad guys.
one of the better efforts from the racetrack specialist.
an unusual hero, still the quiet but strong introverted one, highly intelligent and self-reliant, but this time one burdened by a crippling depression.
The bad guy is more in line with the usual Francis typecast : moneyed, smooth, greedy, less prone to violence than in other books.
Also typical is the presence of a very appealing female companion.The plot is of course about racehorses, and the setting moves from the Thames riverbanks to Kentucky green hills, the snowy Tetons, Las Vegas and the Pacific beaches.recommended for anyone willing to try a solid thriller from a master of the genre.
But “Blood Sport” was quite different in that he didn’t use the same basic story “architecture” that he has used on most all of his other books I’ve read.
In fact, if you wanted to say the Francis story formula was intact with this book, you would say Francis studied James Bond novels and that’s the additional research he did, imbuing his spy with some of Bond’s ways and borrowing some plot ideas.
This felt like an introduction to a series, and I’m surprised Francis didn’t continue it.
Ouch.Remember when I reviewed For Kicks, and I said it looked like Francis had considered Daniel Roke for a "James Bond with horses" series?
Well, here we have a clinically depressed Bond figure, Gene...can't remember don't care, who can't make up his mind whether to kill himself or get over himself.
I found him completely unsympathetic from beginning to end, half-wishing he would top himself and put me out of his misery.
The plot isn't as well-tuned as Francis's norm, with an unusual amount of low-stakes wandering around looking for clues, but the hero makes it memorable.
Gene is a former James Bond-type secret agent turned private eye (unusually for Francis - his heroes tend not to be professional hero types) suffering from long-term, severe depression.
However, to this day many depressed people never seek treatment, so I believe that Gene wouldn't.
The pieces of this book don't fit together as well as Francis learned to do later.
Gene has a helper who needed better characterization for his storyline to really work, and the final action climax isn't that climactic.
Most of the time I can enjoy a decent crime novel even if the particular subject matter does not interest me that much.
This book failed to live up to my expectations.Horse racing and horses in general do not hold any fascination to me and thus the background of this book was not that interesting.
But that was not the main failing of this book.
At one point, I was really hoping he was going to kill himelf.
Perhaps later Dick Francis books are better, but it's going to be a long time before I try another one.
This book has an interesting plot and the main character thinks up a couple of smart tricks to first solve the riddle of disappeared horses and then to find who took them and why.I've now read this book three times, the last time was ten years ago and what an interesting thing a mind is - I had very little recollection of the story. So I was able to enjoy this as a "new" book by Dick Francis, who is one of my favourite authors! How nice!
This is one of my favorite Dick Francis novels. His heroes are always very well-drawn, but I found Gene Hawkins particularly to the point, fighting with very human issues as he outwardly appears a typical Bond-style professional hero type. The actual plot isn't really the appeal of this book for me, it's the character of the hero in and of itself.
There were a few annoying mistakes in the writing, one surprising given that it was horse-related, but didn’t mar the overall plot, just moments.
Always love a book by this author. This one was written in 1967 but I find these timeless. Fairly straightforward story about finding three stallions who disappeared!
Gene Hawkins is invited on a boating trip by his boss, a rare occasion.
During the boating vacation, his boss' rich American friend is accidentally (really?) knocked off the boat and only survived because Gene saved him, both getting damaged in the bargain.ExGene is also battling severe depression and suicidal thoughts.
In order to stave off a real possibility of suicide, his boss sends him on a mission on behalf of his American friend.
To find a stolen thoroughbred horse, one of three that has been stolen and disappeared from the racing community.
What follows is an adventure across the United States horse communities.
It's still unquestionably got his knack for astonishingly adept descriptions with a handful of words, but it's more verbose than I think any of the later books I've read.
This is not a complaint, just an observation: my feeling is that as he got better, he pared the books down to their essence, making them tour de forces in a way this one wasn't.Also, reading books written and set in the late 60s/early 70s, with a visible eye for the period detail, is really pretty fun.
More moving than I expected, though Francis' understated books often are. In this case the viewpoint character is suicidally depressed, chronically unattached and uses the dangers of his covert-ops-type job to keep himself engaged enough to struggle through one more day after another. Ironically, it is how painful and personal the cost of his succeeding at this particular job turns out to be that brings him to the point of being willing to re-engage with life, and other people for the first time in years.
Have read all of Dick Francis' books and, particularly with the earlier ones, one thing I particularly liked is that he treated his readers are intelligent people - no need for paragraphs describing things - he just made them happen and put the reader right in the thick of it! All of his books have something to do with horses: the protagonist is an owner, trainer, jockey, writer, pilot, or any number of other race horse related employments. Before he wrote books, Dick Francis was a jockey, and it shows!
BLOOD SPORT - VGFrancis, Dick - 6th bookGene Hawkings must travel to Kentucky, on the orders of his boss, to spend three weeks looking for kidnapped stallions. But before he leaves, Gene's survival skills are called on closer to home, catapulting him into a maelstrom of blackmail and murder.I wasn't quite as taken by this book as his others. The protagonist didn't speak to me in the same way.
Although Well written I was not overly keen of the plot mainly as the story was set in the United States, when to me Dick Francis novels are as English as 'fish and chips'.Although What is to be commended about the story is the fact that the lead character suffered from depression, which was still bit of a taboo subject in 1969.
You don't realise how long ago a book you're reading was written until they talk about identifying horses based on blood types and you're thinking, why don't you just do a simple DNA test. Then you turn to the page to see when it was first published and realise that an interesting book stays interesting even though it was written AGES ago. I really enjoyed the story. It was a good summer read.
This is the first Dick Francis novel I've read and it was a huge surprise. I would never have picked it up but it was a book club choice so I gave it a go. I really enjoyed it. It was well paced with rounded and interesting characters and a satisfying plot. Even though it was written in 1967 it didn't feel dated. I will definitely read more.
Picture perfect Dick Francis mystery.
This really isn’t my favorite Francis novel. I find it to be disjointed and jumpy. I also have problems with the main character’s relationship. It’s weird feeling reading this book.
This is why I gave it four stars.(view spoiler)[I did not like the not-really-romance subplot all that much - at least Francis keeps things reasonably realistic and doesn't have Gene marry the 17-year-old girl who gets a crush on him after he heroically saved someone's life, but that part of the story did bother me a bit and felt rather pointless.
Same thing with the depression thing - surprisingly, when I first read the book in French years ago, both elements were completely missing - I guess the translator decided they didn't really matter to the plot, and I guess they are right.
As with most of his books, it does relate to the horse racing world.
Albeit disturbing at times, it lends a degree of reality to this character.In “Blood Sport,” Gene Hawkins is due his vacation; before he leaves, he accepts an invitation to a party on his employer’s boat.
The mystery takes Hawkins across the Atlantic and to many locations in America as he attempts to find the missing horse.Francis is a great story teller who creates delightful characters.
His central characters are not always horse owners or jockeys; they can be wine merchants, insurance agents, lawyers, film producers, or people who are working in some peripheral profession that somehow relates to the horse racing world.
Three months ago I lost a family member to suicide.
So for a while I had to put this book down because the title character is contemplating suicide and dealing with depression.
This is a Dick Francis mystery, not a book about depression.
However I was deeply impressed with, and appreciate the way depression was portrayed.
Gene Hawkins, the main character, is battling sustained depression.
He muses to himself that depression does not respect success, achievement, or even satisfaction.
Gene will always resonate with me even if the mystery he figures in is less memorable.
A really solid thriller from the 60s against a horsey background, Francis' usual territory, which also tackles a couple of social issues as relevant now as 50 years ago and foreign travel, which is not the novelty it would have been then. Plus ca change, as they say in the South. One of the social issues is probably a bit edgier than it was, but he just about gets away with it, and it's a reminder how attitudes change.
