https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/428042.Airborn
Damn straight.Ladies and gentlemen, this is YA. This is YA in all its shiny glory. If you're tired of beautiful supernatural new kids falling in love with the mortal they can't be with...Well. This is YA.Damn straight.
3 1/2 starsRead this book if:You love young, honest lads from humble beginnings who are nonetheless 
It might appear to be more of a "boy book", but there is a main character who is a girl, so there's someone girls can relate to, and a bit of wholesome romance.
The protagonist, 15 year old Matt, is likable, responsible, honest and the story is well written.For parents - There wasn't anything in it to give parents pause - except for a few deaths in the battles with the pirates - a couple good guys, a few bad guys, but although there were sad deaths (the good guys) nothing was too graphic.
I'm so glad I decided to listen to the Full Cast Audio production of this young adult novel.
I was riveted during this novel, even though I have read the book (and its sequel) before.
He's only a cabin boy, but knows everything about the ship and has dreams of flying his own one day.
She insists that her grandfather discovered a new mammal high above an island in the Pacificus, and wants Matt to help her prove it.
And, boy, do they ever.
There are enough similarities that I couldn't help it and I did try to be objective.Let's start with characters, shall we?Matt is nice but a bit bland.
And the scientific community is letting her run around with her discovery?
(hide spoiler)]The story: Pirates and Cloud Cats!!
I mean, it was all centered about this animal that they call a "cloud cat" and its discovery.
I thought it was a bit lacking in character development and plot but I liked it and I'll probably try the rest of the books in the series.
This book is reminiscent of the best pirate adventures of the past, but ups the ante by setting half of the tale in the air, rather than the seas, and by taking time with characterizations, rather than creating stock Baddies.There is admittedly an odd subplot with mysterious creatures which is...interesting enough, but really I found myself caught up the most with the "high seas" (or perhaps in this case, high over the seas) drama.
The pirate crew are a mixture of elegant and rough unsavory characters that feel particularly true-to-life from what I've read on the subject.
Still, I think a case could be made for this as a sort of crossover for a boy who reads mainly nonfiction and is interested in nautical subjects, aviation, or real life pirates.
But there are cool flying animals, airships, silly fish-loving chefs, sea-adventures, pirates, lost islands, smart feisty girls, daring kind-hearted boys, and adventure!The other appeal of this particular audiobook was that is was performed by Full Cast Audio.
I heard about this company because mateys of mine worked as voice actors for the company.
So I was delighted to finally hear one.I absolutely loved the main character, Matt Cruse, and his love for the airship, Aurora.
But the world building was lovely, the pirates were dastardly, and the science behind both the ship and creatures was fascinating.
There is a lot of adventure in this book, especially at the end where it got especially exciting.
I told Matt repeatedly to just leave her behind, Kate deserved whatever she got.
I finally picked up the book and read the last few chapters because I could not listen to her any longer but the story was all so exciting I needed to know how Matt would fix Kate's dumbness.
I am interested in Matt and his later adventures, but since Kate is going to be in the books too (and the romantic lead, I'm assuming), I wont be picking them up.
If you like a lot of action in your reading, you'll love Airborn, by Kenneth Oppel. This 2005 Printz honor title reads just like watching a movie. Mr. Cruse is awfully young to work aboard a luxury airship. Even if he is only a cabin boy, he aspires to greater responsibility. Luckily, many opportunities arise for him to prove his mettle to the captain. But after the Aurora is attacked by pirates and left foundering after a typhoon, Matt's cunning and ability face test after test, leaving him physically and mentally challenged.
When writing a book that takes place on an island, you might want to research such things, since pineapples actually grow on the ground.So maybe you just didn't spend enough time in your research and editing stages, because my inner Grammar Nazi found three typos in your novel.Let's look at your novel.
The ones I wanted to know more about you never let me get close to (Baz, the Captain) and the main characters I would rather have left behind.
I'm all for a strong female character.
A second-generation airshipman, cabin boy Matt Cruse catches a glimpse of a sinking balloon ship, and helps engineer the daring rescue of its sole occupant. While dying, the balloonist tells Matt about magnificent winged creatures. On a later cruise, the dead man's granddaughter Kate arrives to find whatever her grandfather saw. A little bit of piracy and some stormy weather adds some spice to the story. Personally, I thought Leviathan by Scott Westerfield was a better story and more steampunk. 3.75 stars.
I really was looking forward to liking this book as it's not the typical magic fantasy and really isn't even fantasy per say.
And sometimes it felt like the book was going on forever before we moved to a different part of the story.
He didn't know a lot he knew everything out there about airships.
Second thing was that he kept going on and on about how at home he felt, it was like "okay I got it the first 500 times you told me".Overall fun read but sometimes frustrating and annoying.
Great YA book that doesn't have magic in it!
Add in class issues and an adventurous young lady with scientific aspirations and it more than fills 500 pages.There's basically two storylines going on here.
There's swashbuckling action against a group of sky pirates, and a quest to prove the existence of a strange creature, something like a gigantic bat.
Later, they team up with Bruce Lunardi, the new member of the crew who got his position because daddy owns the airship.The plot moves along at a good pace.
The strange creatures are also fascinating when they show up.I mentioned class issues playing a part in the story.
Matt wants to advance in rank on the airship, but he can't afford officer training.
Most definitely one of the best books I’ve read in a long time.
Perhaps *best* isn’t quite the right word… I’ve read several wonderful books this year.
But, for me, this is definitely one of my all-time favorites.Seldom do I come across a title that has a strong plot, a great writing style, and wonderful characters that are multi-dimensional, real, and vivid.
However, the book never felt like it was *just* plot driven, nor did it ever feel like it was *just* character driven.
But, there are obvious deaths, some of which might be unnerving for young, sensitive readers.
I quite enjoyed this one!
Let's just say, the only reason I'm keeping this book is because of the front cover - I'm going to use it as decor on my bookshelf.
I loved Matt and Kate and their very cute friendship.
(I just realized how much I am using the word wonderful in this review, whoops.) I loved how Kate & Matt's Cloud Cat (oml that rhymed) slayed and feasted on a good portion of the pirates.-PIRATES!
This isn't saying I didn't like the other characters but I love some good ol' murder in my novels.
Some of my favorite scenes involved Kate and Matt adventuring deeper in the island BUT THOSE DARN PIRATES UGH.-The food!
fun, light adventure read. I liked the MC, but the main female character was a spoiled, self-centered, idiotic brat.
A story so strong it swept me off my feet and left me ... airborne4.5
Really liked this adventure story. The fantasy elements are handled well and I think the interpersonal struggles of the main characters are not overly done. It was really fun to read.
It starts of a little slow. But if you stick with it, you might be surprised. And even when it is slow, for some reason, it moved. It flowed very well. An enjoyable read.
TERRIBLE ENDINGGG!!!!!!! Hated the book, I feel asleep reading the book it was boring and I didn't like it...
The story itself is pure Verne: while on a normal flight across the Pacificus (the Latinized names of places and the mix of real places with marginally fictionalized ones are another great way that the story manages to use minimalistic world development to great effect) from Lionsgate City (aka Vancouver) to Sydney, ambitious and highly capable 15 year old cabin boy Matt Cruse encounters beautiful and willful Kate de Vries, a girl from a wealthy family who, under the eyes of her disapproving (and fearsome) chaperone, has a secret purpose behind her apparent pleasure cruise aboard the Aurora.
I'm rating this based on the memory that I loved it when I read it years ago, and I hand sold it a lot when I was a bookseller. An imaginative adventure.
Matt loves airships, he was born aloft, his father worked on the Aurora and he doesn’t like being on the ground.
She drags Matt along for adventure and discovery, not that he’s complaining, he likes her.
It’s not particularly deep or complex, but it has plenty of twists and turns and skin-of-the-teeth escapes and I couldn’t put it down.I admit that I am a huge airship fan, they have a romantic image for me (once you get past the combustible gas) and maybe my opinion is off because I was interested in simply reading about a story in a world where airships rule (if we could have produced helium rather than relying on hydrogen they may still be big), but I loved it.
Why aren’t people writing thrilling adventure stories like this for adults too?
I hesitate to bring out any sort of "Harry Potter comparison" but really this is the closest to an HP "feel" of any novel I've read since just in terms of the blend of action and humor, thoughtfulness and adventure, and warm, wonderful characters that I wished I could befriend in real-life.
I'm the one who "found" the book in the first place while I worked in the school library last summer and I remember liking the few chapters I'd been able to read.
She is the granddaughter of the balloonist that Matt rescued, and she's arrived aboard the Aurora to prove that her grandfather wasn't crazy and actually did see some marvelous creature during his cross-world ballooning trip.
I liked Kate right away, and was not disappointed with her character through out the book.Matt was a nice boy, smart, loyal and dedicated.
While I like Matt quite a bit, I'm more curious to see what antics Kate has him getting up to in the next book.
Finally decided to review this book, as I think it is really underrated, and more people should read it!Reading Airborn was like a breath of fresh air from all the other cliché YA storylines around.
By adding the element of unknown animals to the atmosphere, it added suspense to the plot, making me want to read on.I always find a book hard (sometimes impossible) to read if I don’t like the characters.
Matt is a great main character as he reacts to situations in reasonable and believable ways, making the story that much easier and enjoyable to read.
In the first 150 pages, you have a hot air balloon rescue, mysterious words from a dying man, a daring in-air landing, a strange journal, a pirate attack, a crash landing and the discovery of a mysterious skeleton.
The three younger characters – Matt, Kate and Matt’s “rival,” Bruce Lunardi – are all sympathetic.
Bruce is the outsider on the ship, a newcomer with no experience, and he feels trapped by his powerful family’s image and the need to live up to the family name.
The history of the time is well done; the language, clothing and descriptions feel authentic.
The airships, the characters, pirates, mythical beasts come to life, skeptical scientists, daring girls, snooty chaperones, brave captains, vivacious cooks, and a daring, brave, excelling cabin boy.Matt Cruse is a cabin boy on board the majestic airship  Aurora.
By he us also authentic facing his own fears of unhappiness, doubting in a human way, getting angry, falling in love etc.
I think I liked Leviathan better because it was more unique, but Airborne is really cool too.
While I agree some parts could have been made to sound more authentic (in terms of setting and characters) the book overall was very fulfilling.
