https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87985.A_Soldier_of_the_Great_War
A Soldier of the Great War is the story of Alessandro Giuliani, and essentially his experiences as an Italian soldier during WW1.
But Alessandro isn't very convincing as a family man; he's too much of a loner and an adventurer to excel in the role of son, father or husband.
Another thing I liked was the light carelessness with which the book carries its research.
Often writers have a habit of littering historical novels with the grating superfluous tokens of their study of the subject.
He's not a great stylist, not a musical writer.
But there was more than enough of the magical here to make me want to read more of his books.
It tells the story of one Alessandro Giuliani, an Italian soldier who goes off to fight in 1914 and soon shows a propensity for escaping death and injury which is only matched by his proficiency as a rider, his irresistibility to women, his prowess as a mountain-climber, his fortitude, his moral strength, his physical strength, his perceptive art criticism, his religious insight, his cutting one-liners, his rakish anti-authoritarianism, and his ability to attract woodland creatures like a Disney princess:Perhaps because he had been without his family, solitary for so long, the deer in deer preserves and even in the wild sometimes allowed him to stroke their cloud-spotted flanks and touch their faces.
My point is that, on a normal day, in my old life, I’d have a hard time reviewing Mark Helprin’s A Soldier of the Great War. The mastery of its prose, the depths of its philosophy, and the confidence in its execution, is just that daunting.
The people Alessandro meets and talks to (with some exceptions) don’t feel like well-developed three-dimensional human beings, with their own back-stories; to the contrary, they come off as symbols, their mouths filled with dialogue that is meant to challenge Alessandro’s own beliefs or, more often, that serve as straw-ideas for Alessandro to bludgeon with his intellectual powers.
On their journey, Alessandro tells the boy a portion of his life story, which of course focuses on the time he spent as a soldier in World War I, the "Great War." Alessandro’s confidence makes him a compelling character, even if it comes off to the reader as arrogance at first.
Early in the book, Alessandro’s father warns that “a profession is like a great snake that wraps itself around you.
Alessandro decides early on not to choose a career that might dim his eyes to all that is good and beautiful around him, and chooses to become a student of aesthetics.
Whatever I could possibly say cannot do justice to this book. How Helprin uses language is magnificent - the dialogue, the thoughts he evokes, the humor, the beauty he paints for the reader. I have to give this book five stars, although I have only read half. Well now I have completed the book and this makes me so sad - I didn't want it to end.
When we first meet Alessandro, the soldier from the title, he’s an elderly but still vital man who takes a principled stand against a streetcar driver who refused to stop for a would-be rider giving chase.
Then it’s off to the Great War itself with all the context you would ever need to see it for what it was.Had the lone theme of the book been “war is hell”, it still would have been very good.
Thankfully, Helprin knew he had the chops to make it work.This is one of my wife’s favorite books of all time.
Helprin's writing technique (at least in this book and Refiner's Fire, which I read a year or so ago) is to tell a sequence of what seem to be unrelated tales in the life of a single character.
At least in this book, as opposed to Refiner's Fire, the leaps are always forward in time.
The skips do allow the presentation of an extended time range without filling in all the details and thereby producing an overly long book.
it is so very good, thoughtful and enlightening.Alessandro's musings about death, facing his own while remembering all the others he has seen, are by themselves worth the reading.
Well, he certainly perceived my taste fittingly, and I am forever indebted to him for persuading me to read this beautiful, evocative, deeply resonating story of a soldier-scholar living through WW I.This is not like any other war novel I have read, and I've read a number of them.
Here is an example of the book's uncommon beauty that shines everywhere on these pages:"It seemed unbelievable that the sky, twisting and boiling like burning phosphorous, was silent, for its light and thunder suggested thunder, explosions, and the sound of the sea.
It's taking me a long time to read this.
Not because it's bad.
Just the opposite.
The writing is so exquisite that my heart is breaking over and over again and I realize I'm not making the time to read.
Yet I'm drawn back every day, and then wonder why I'm avoiding it.
My god the man can write.
I'm in a void right now, left to wonder what can I possibly read next that won't shatter under the reverberations lingering from finishing this book.
This book puts Erich Maria Remarque to shame.
Beautiful prose highlights a forgotten front of a forgotten war as a student of aesthetics becomes a soldier of World War I in the Italian army.
As you read, you desperately try to connect yourself to Alessandro, but as you press on, you come to realize that we are all Nicolo, his companion on the road away from Rome in 1964, ignorant and selfish, thinking no farther than our noses.
Anyone who has ever been to Rome or Italy would adore this book, and for anyone who has ever loved.
Alessandro joins the boy, and in their journey from Rome to a far away village, he tells the boy the story of his life; from his early days living as the son of an attorney, (during which time he has an unforgettable encounter with an Austrian Princess), to a young Roman intellectual who foresaw the coming conflict in Europe, to a soldier battered in the trenches, to a man who discovers the meaning of his life in the Italian Alps, to an elder who imparts lasting wisdom upon an illiterate boy, Alessandro’s life is one in which none of us would want to live, but that all of us long for.
They appeared to be mining not stone but white light, and when they took the stone in slabs and caused it to float through empty space, tracked by searchlights, hanging on gossamer cables and unseen chains, it was as if they were handling light in cubic measure, cutting and transporting it in dense self-generating quanta from the heart of magical cliffs.Alessandro's image of looking down into a marble quarry as men work through the night to make tombstones for the Italian dead is one of dozens that have stuck with me indelibly since I first read this wonderful book a decade ago.
He's moralistic, his female characters are an afterthought, much of his philosophy is better suited for the 19th century and his books invariably involve military conflict.
A Soldier of the Great War sticks to his typical template: a male protagonist who proves his virtue through courage in battle.
The protagonist, Alessandro Giullani, is a student of aesthetics at the turn of the 20th century.
He is content to live a life of contemplation and study, but the "Great War" (WWI) intercedes, and M.
Giullani is caught in the war's maelstrom.
But due to his immense talent, Helprin pulls it off.
I tend to race through books, which was a huge mistake with this one.
A Soldier of the Great War needs to be read slowly with each description and each passage savored.
It is a gorgeous, almost achingly beautiful book.
If someone could "paint" a book, this would be it.
True art.
Reading this book is like taking a drug...
you walk away seeing everything from a different -- and spiritually deeper -- angle.
This book makes me realize how asleep we are, and how much richer life is than we ever stop to notice.
But also, how meaningless we are.
Dramatic, engrossing, a long and poignant read, an amazing journey in the midst of war, the discovery of love, all anchored by heartbreakingly beautiful prose.From the Mark Helprin web site (used with permission) In the summer of 1964, Alessandro Giuliani, an old and partially lame professor of aesthetics —white hair and mustaches, white suit, cane— is thrown off a trolley on the outskirts of Rome after he comes to the defense of a young and semi-literate factory worker who has irritated the driver.
An old man was reminiscing mostly about his WWI experiences as an Italian soldier. At times I wished he would hurry up and get on with the story lines that interested me. Then at others I wanted to know more about his life and his thoughts. This book is not for everyone. If you like Joseph Heller (Catch-22),Vonnegut & Remarque you might enjoy this novel. It is about 800 pages so I recommend it to patient readers.
You win, Mr. Helprin. Your fine novel transcends my smart-ass review. Even so, I give you five out of five pitons driven into the rock face of an impossible cliff in the Italian Alps by a soldier we have come to love on his way to rescue his friend who we hope is not dead. You get extra credit for your humorous inclusion of the roller-coaster decorating profession.
Brilliant!! A comedy of errors and a beautiful picture of life and why you should never give up!!
I always liked books where the protagonist confronts whatever obstacles confront him and overcomes in the end.
Reading this book,and reading Mark Helprin in general, is like listening to a Mozart Symphony.
His descriptions are so vivid I felt like I was watching a film.
What I don't particularly like are books, or films that try to portray "true life" as it were.
These are ones where the bad guy gets away with it, or the hero's death is meaningless (example is the film "Arlington Road").
Mark Helprin's book is a perfect example of what a good book should be.
So...this would probably be the greatest novel ever written. It is a war story and a love story, a story about God and beauty, a story about perseverance, and it's really funny and quirky at times. Mark Helprin is our most intelligent writer, and our most underappreciated. I don't read many books more than once, but I've read this one 3 times and some of the passages countless times.
The novel probably deserves more than 3 stars. Parts of it are very moving, and Helprin has important things to say and creates a wonderful, deeply humane character in Alessandro Giuliani. But it was a long, looooong slog. It felt like a 40-mile hike. More chore than fun.
This is the story of a human life, the life of a young Italian, Alessandro, at the very beginning of the 20th century, learning to live and love with his family in Rome, mountain climbing in the Italian Alps, and then becoming a man on the battlefields of World War I.
I don't quite know how to describe it, but there is something almost Tolstoyan in Helprin's wordcraft and the breadth and scope of this beautiful novel.
For those of you who are veterans, or have veterans in your family, this is book to read and savor, a novel to share.
A Soldier of the Great War, Mark Helprin
This tale, in which Alessandro Giuliani, an aging First World War veteran in his dotage, speaks about his life to a young lad (Nicolo) in his late teens while the 2 make their way on foot from the countryside to Rome during August 1964, is ponderous and tiresome.
Alessandro, who grew up and lived a life of ease and comfort up til the First World War, loves to pontificate on just about any subject.
So, the more I read this novel, the more I found myself fighting it, hoping that I would find a more engaging tale.
Allesandro’s tale of his life is a love story to his family & comrades in arms.
Allesandro tells his story with charm and humour and he’s shown to be a man of substance, feeling and loyalty.
Niccolo is enthralled with the story that Allesandro tells of the war, his part in it, and his loves.
He comes to realize that love rises above all and that love never dies and lives beyond one’s life time.
Helprin told a wonderful story of a good man living through terrible times and yet rose above the experiences.
A Soldier of the Great War is one of those books that once finished, you have to let yourself ponder what it is you've just read, let it sit with you for a time, while you formulate your thoughts. After being immersed in Alessandro's world for three weeks, it will take me a while to surface. It's epic, poetic, heart wrenching, funny, scary, breathtaking, maddening, and leaves you with much to ponder.
In honor of Veteran's Day, I choose this story of an elderly man recounting his life during World War I. Such an epic story of love, loss and redemption, and so beautifully written. I first read it 21 years ago while stuck in Lille, France during a train strike and I have loved it ever since.
Helprin is a skilled writer, but not brilliant; the story is engrossing and the setting is well-chosen, but I think in the end what really bothered me is that the main character, Alessandro, fails to become truly lovable.
The book in general skirts the territory of magical realism too often--impossible feats are performed, plot quandries are solved with coincidences, and we never doubt that Alessandro will achieve what he wishes to.
And in the end, the book was just too damn long--I had to struggle through the last 100 pages, irritated by minor plot twists and time-outs to admire the sky or the trees or the birds.
I read 400 pages and finally came to the conclusion that it was a waste of time because I had practically no curiosity about the main or subordinate characters.
It is essentially a collection of 1,500 word anecdotes with a thin film of connecting glue.Most of what came out of the characters' mouths was implausible.
There's an awful lot of inflated dialogue that sounded to me like words tumbling over themselves in search of a profound insight.
After reading half the book, I came to the conclusion it was just one damn thing after another, and it was boring.
This is a difficult to categorize book, as it swings from serious to farcical and much of it strains credulity, but oh, what a tale!
It is fascinating to read about life in Europe around the turn of the century and into the Great War, or what we now called World War I.
The world was turned upside down by that war, and it is apparent in the book.
The dynasties die, the nobility fade away, and what is left is the modern world.
I won't spoil it for those who've not read it, but it is a thrill.
