https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/538791.The_Green_Lantern_Green_Arrow_Collection_Vol_1
A classic 70s comic milestone.Dennis O'Neil and Neal Adams opened here a new age of storytelling, sending the two so different green heroes in a quest to find the heart of the real America, introducing in the comic world real and important themes like racism, poverty, social equality, bigotry, overpopulation and enviromental degradation.Sadly dialogues aged not much as good as Adams' awesome photorealistic artworks, and storyline is sometimes too much wordy and melodramatic for the modern reader.But for that, this miniseries too much ahead of its time is just a must read for all comic books fans.
When I saw this at my local comic shop, I battled with myself over whether or not to buy it.
$30 was a lot for a comic I didn't know I'd like.
Alas, my love of Green Arrow won me over and I bought it.
I'm not one for the old school comics since the writing seems so hoakey to me but wow, was I wrong (sort of).
The writing is still pretty, uh, 70's, but if you overlook the excessive exclamation points and thought bubbles, the issues these two "emerald warriors" tackle are still pretty accurate for our day and age.
I love Green Lantern and Green Arrow's conflicting ideals.
Green Lantern in particular has to deal with the realization that the world is not as black and white as he once thought.
He questions authority more throughout these issues and eventually realizes that the Guardians and the government are not always right.Green Arrow is his normal, radically anti-authority self, which I love.
The punctuation and pauses in dialogue were pretty jarring, especially coming from someone who takes heed of the punctuation and bold letters when reading the dialogue.I would recommend this to fans of old school Green Arrow, old school Green Lantern, old school Black Canary, retro DC comics, and superhero team-ups.
Se volete leggere la mia recensione, cliccate qui! http://ascwblog.blogspot.it/2018/01/l...
Despite the age of this series Green Lantern/Green Arrow holds up remarkably well.
The storyline is full of controversial issues, ranging from race equality to drugs, that are still relevant today.
This should say something to our race, but maybe not enough people have read this collection.
The art holds up just as well as the storyline, too, and I'd go as far to say it's coloured and detailed better than some of the art in Green Arrow's New 52 series.
If you can get past the somewhat ancient writing and dodgy one liners, there's something great in Green Lantern/Green Arrow.
Cooool!GA is acting kind of like a jerk in the first two issues.
Wasn't he ALL about the downtrodden man at the beginning of this storyline?Love the Black Canary /Demons fight sequence in GL#78.
It'd be minor but 3 pages following depend on her having it..So GA acts like a huge brat for most of this volume, but the art is great, the stories are fun, and I really enjoyed it.
Ever read a comic book clearly written by a hippie (in the nicest sense of the word)? More than a decade before Alan Moore did it with Watchmen, O’Neil began to dig away at the ideological ground of superheroes. In his introduction, written in ‘83, O’Neil writes, “Green Lantern was, in effect, a cop. An incorruptible cop, to be sure, with noble intentions but still a cop, a crypto-fascist: he took orders, he committed violence at the behest of commanders whose authority he did not question.” I
Ever read a comic book clearly written by a hippie (in the nicest sense of the word)?
More than a decade before Alan Moore did it with Watchmen, O’Neil began to dig away at the ideological ground of superheroes.
In his introduction, written in ‘83, O’Neil writes, “Green Lantern was, in effect, a cop.
An incorruptible cop, to be sure, with noble intentions but still a cop, a crypto-fascist: he took orders, he committed violence at the behest of commanders whose authority he did not question.” I love that, especially the “crypto-fascist” bit.
Green Arrow, whom I have never read before, is one of my new favourites.
This is one of the series that got my brothers and I into comics for real.
It was the first series we "discovered" on our own rather than by reference from others.
It was a breath of fresh air in a time when the success of The Dark Knight Returns had the comics industry tripping over itself to be dark, gritty, and suffocating.It's political, what with Arrow proposing to teach Lantern about the complexities of justice by taking him on a cross country trip to find the soul of America and Ollie's "leftie' reputation, but subjects get covered without taking all the air out of the room and concluding that all is lost, everyone is corrupt, and the only thing for it is to brood.
Really some of the greatest comics ever written. Dennis O'Neil and Neal Adams were masters. I would still say that the stuff Neil Adams drew forty years ago blows away almost anything drawn today. Very clear social commentary and reflection at work here.
I love this whole volume-if only to laugh at the contradictory and shallow diatribes from Green Arrow, and how he manages to insult any group he tries to stand for.He calls Hal a Nazi loudly and often for trying to talk squatters into leaving, for wanting to hear both sides before a lynching, and even for apologizing to his boss for something innocuous.
It’s also great that they go on a road trip around America so that Ollie can have an opportunity to insult every minority group with his white savior complex.
Plagued by laughable art and unreadable heavy-handed if not contradictory social commentary (HITLER!HITLER!HITLER!HITLER!HITLUUUUUUUUR!!!!11111111!!!11!!!wait, why is Black Canary praying?!) from an author who, six years in the future, will write the definitive Batman story by making social critique WITH JUST ONE RIGHT SENTENCE. This There's no Hope in Crime Alley is not, young Jedi. The worst Dennis O'Neil tale to date for me.
Well it was always going to suffer in comparison to the hype that proceeded my reading; I love Denny O'Neill's writing for batman and this book covers some important issues... but I the actual stories feel like an episode of The A-Team or Incredible Hulk and it also seems to be the shortest ever road trip to find America.
this was an amazing read with the 2 iconic heroes- green lantern and green arrow- teaming up to face an evil too powerfull for just one of them. it expresses the two heroes relationships and their conflicts greatly.
Gave up on this one. Wasn't a very captivating story.
With Hal the uncomplicated space cop set against a left-wing radical like the archer, it asks a question we are still trying to answer forty-plus years later: Why is it so easy for the powerful to ignore social issues when all around them is inequality?As troubling a proposition as this seems to be, it makes perfect sense that Hal Jordan, Green Lantern of Space Sector 2814 wouldn’t be immune to it.
The news cycle I’m exposed to doesn’t show me how much we’ve evolved from the world Denny and Neal were trying to change.
Green Lantern is the ultimate policeman, always following orders and having a very black and white interpretation of justice.
This series sets them against each other at times, but ultimately they come together for the Greater Good, whether that be dealing with slum landlords, corrupt mine owners or invasion of Native American lands.Some of it is clumsily handled to modern eyes, particularly the Native American story, although in saying that, Native American history and culture is something that I know very little about; on this side of the Pond we don't see much of it outside of Hollywood's perspective.
Frank Miller’s 2002 Batman: The Dark Knight Strikes Again, the follow-up to his 1986 masterpiece of Cold War paranoia and moral panic, Batman: The Dark Knight Returns, is a jumble of comic book clichés and poor, distracting storytelling techniques – not to mention amorphous and boring art – that is all the more disappointing in respect to its great predecessor.
A deluxe reissue of Grant Morrison and Frank Quitely’s 1996 title, Flex Mentallo: Man of Muscle Mystery, interweaves golden and silver age comics history with hallucinogenic dreams of the multiverse and 70s pop culture.
Foreman’s expressive art, miles ahead of the computerized superhero garbage the Big Two are pumping out these days, belongs in a Vertigo book.
And I saw that the Arrow actually had a justice bend: he wasn't just fighting crime lords and bad guys for the sake of but actually taking on 1%ers.
This held great appeal for me, especially as I read into Green Arrow's history and learned about his commitments to social justice causes.
And the end, with the supernatural stuff surrounding Green Lantern and the guardians was blah, though the Black Canary story was good.
It kind of satisfied what I was looking for and I can't wait to read part two (and maybe find some more Green Arrow works with a similar justice bend).
This book was very good.
But a bit over-rated.Some pretty interesting dilemma faced the characters of Green Lantern and Green Arrow.
Basically their sales were low and the artists were given a free reign in how they wanted to tell the stories of two vastly underrated comic book characters.I have to admit, I've become a big fan of the Green Lantern ever since Geoff Johns turn in the 2000s, Green Arrow is not that much of a favorite but he has some great moments.
I hated that and couldn't have been more ashamed.But these stories have their moments and in the end does have me appreciate some of the characters better.An interesting effort.
I'm not a particularly huge Green Lantern fan, but I love the Green Arrow and since I am still pretty new to reading DC titles I decided that I should probably read this title.
Made me realize that the big wigs at DC should re-introduce this title under Lemire, Snyder, or even Johns to give new comic readers a chance to enjoy a modern representation of one of the best super hero team-ups ever.Frankly, the reason why it only gets three stars if mainly because the dated vernacular and dated feel of the stories came off as quite corny at times.
Interesting read that pre-dates Watchmen in it's effort to grapple what it means for superheros to "fight evil". While the overall story is interesting, there were just too many instances of extreme cheese and over-simplification. I couldn't finish it.Green Arrow is somewhat of an anarchist trying to make Green Lantern "wake-up" to society's ills from his current by-the-letter-of-the-law world view. Not sure if this awakening is what caused the events that predated Green Lantern: Rebirth.
Loving this collection and excited to read more.
GL is finally starting to realize that might (or political power) is not always in the right, and that justice is not always of a piece with the law.
I love his struggle to define what is 'evil'.
GA is a powerful, compassionate man, but he is unaware of the problems in his impetuosity that propels him into action.
GL's hesitation to define the evil in each of the situations they are confronted with might clash with GA's immediate need to fight for right, but in the end they make a great team, knocking out oppressive foes.

3.5A few of the stories were only ok, but many of them were quite interesting. Reading the author's forward helped to understand his focus on creating more dynamic characters and complex content. It seem these days every author feels the same way, but considering this comic was born in the 60/70's I think it carries a bit more weight. Questions of morality rang all the louder in the Vietnam/Civil Rights era. Not groundbreaking to me, but solidly very good. Well illustrated stories that beg at least some thought.
Just picked this up on a whim while I was exploring the public library near me. I can see why this was considered revolutionary at the time, but it just doesn't hold up today. First, I know having political elements is what made the series so ground-breaking, but the 60s-vintage preachiness reads extremely heavy-handed today. Second, like most comics of the era, the characters feel very flat and the dialogue feels stilted and unnatural (yes, non-comics readers, comics today, or at least the good ones, are better about this).
This book was pretty neat. It has three Green Lantern comics in it and an introduction by Samuel R. Delaney. They all have Green Arrow in them. I liked the third comic, "Journey To Desolation", the most. Hal was able to rely on himself and his inner strength rather than the ring. Green Arrow is an ok character, but I'd never read anything with him in it before.I'd recommend this book to fans of Green Lantern, Green Arrow and comics in general.
Green Arrow and Green Lantern and a macro-cephalic space alien try to reenact On the Road. They want to learn about what ails "America today", the answer to which question seems to be racist cult leaders with hypnotic powers and megalomaniac Nazi mine bosses. Inadvertent hilarity ensues.Can you dig it, chum?
Apesar de todo o ridículo que uma análise fria destes heróis poderá demonstrar, o trabalho da dupla O'Neill/Adams salva o dia. As temáticas da toxicodepência, da manipulação do sistema pelos mais poderosos contra os mais fracos e por aí adiante, são de gente dotada de escroto sobredimensionado. Sobretudo pela coragem de as abordar sem preocupações, junto de um público ainda muito jovenzinho.
This is a precursor to Dennis O'Neil run on one of my favorite comics, The Question. This is undeniably a superhero story but it features some great social commentary. Green Arrow is this character now. There is little reason to think that Green Arrow would still be around if he hadn't become the leftist mouth piece that he is here. I don't even find Green Lantern incredibly boring here.
