https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174851.The_Autobiography_of_G_K_Chesterton
And it seemed to me at the beginning, as it seems to me now in the end, that the pessimists and optimists of the modern world have alike missed and muddled this matter; through leaving out the ancient conception of humility and the thanks of the unworthy.
Perhaps the one and only opinion that is really more than an opinion.At this stage of my life, I would have to say that Chesterton is the one author whom I read that makes me feel thankful for the experience.The edition I read is Volume XVI in Ignatius Press's excellent The Collected Works of G.K. Chesterton.
I can't believe it took me so long to read this book (I began it in 1993!) and how much I enjoyed it when I finally finished it.
I've learned tons more about GKC since 1993, which all added to my enjoyment of finishing this book.
While not heavy on personal details (if you want to get the full picture of GKC's life, read the excellent Wisdom and Innocence by Joseph Pearce), it is the remarkable commentary of a very humble man trying to assess his own life.
My father loved Chesterton, and introduced me to the Fr. Brown stories when I was in high school.
There were very few biographical facts in the book, and those were nearly all wrong.
But there is something buried somewhere in the book; though I think it is rather my boyhood than Browning's biography."
I'm a big fan of GKC. But I'm struggling with this. The writing is as only he can do. The stories are personal to him and don't mean as much to me as they should. He is a genius.
The photo on the front of this book says it all: G.K. Chesterton is a curmudgeon, and I have a weak spot for curmudgeons. Especially when they make me laugh out loud, while making extremely insightful observations. We read this out loud.
This guy has great wit--from the very first page!
G.K. Chesterton is one of my favorite authors, and I chose this book for a reading group at work.
Without the group, I'm not sure I would have made it through this book.
Chesterton seems determined not to talk about himself very much in a book that is purportedly his autobiography, and much of what he writes about are controversies limited to his time and place.I think one of the reasons Chesterton hasn't achieved the popularity of C.S. Lewis is because he is seen as being more mired in the controversies of his time (a consequence of his journalistic profession); the Autobiography does nothing to disabuse people of this opinion.
Still, there are glimpses of the wit we know and love here, but this won't join my list of his best books.
Chesterton the journalist is on center stage in the latter half of the book, before the concluding chapters which unite the opening stories of his childhood.As I was reading these latter chapters on Chesterton's journalistic career, I sensed I would give this life story a 3-star rating, but the final two chapters brought the narrative into a cohesive whole that transformed its parts.
The discipline of a reading group proves the lesson and reward for finishing a work that isn't a "page-turner." The reward awaits at the end; not so much for a cliche twist, but for the sake of uniting the final components of a story into a cohesive whole.

This is more a series of sketches than an autobiography. But many of them are quite good sketches. And there are some wonderful anecdotes as well. Just imagine Chesterton visiting the infinitely refined Henry James for the first time, and then Hillaire Belloc storming in dressed like a beggar looking for "Gilbert! Gilbert!" If this stuff were made up it wouldn't be realistic.
Strategically and artistically placed beginning and ending chapters were beautiful and inspiring; middle chapters lagged, but provided many details about associations, influences, and contexts for his thinking and writing.
Wit and excellent storytelling abound in this book, although the false modesty irritated me sometimes. Chesterton's writing style resembles little eddies in a stream, always swirling around while moving along. The prose flows and is very readable.
L'approdo sarà, come è noto, la Chiesa cattolica, "dove tutte le verità si danno appuntamento".----Non può esservi miglior prova dell'efficienza fisica di un uomo del suo discorrere allegramente di un viaggio alla fine del mondo.
Non può esservi sintomo più evidente di una vigorosa salute fisica della tendenza a inseguire nobili e folli ideali; è nella prima esuberanza dell'infanzia che vogliamo la luna.Nulla è più fallimentare del successo.
L'uomo nel campo di cavoli non ha visto nulla, ma pensa alle cose che uniscono gli uomini: la fame, i figli, la bellezza delle donne, la promessa o la minaccia del cielo.
I approach reading like one of those birds that goes about collecting shiny trinkets for its nest from wherever it can find them.
What I keep in my nest is my own sense of Northernness (see C.S. Lewis,  Surprised by Joy ).
So I approached this book thinking that it would be a treasure trove of Chestertonian baubles and twigs, of which I already have an impressive collection hidden away.
If I was interested in Chesterton himself and in getting a complete picture of his thought and context, this might have been a good read; but since I am not I found it exhausting.
Readers less selfish than I may find this a better read.
Más que una autobiografía se trata de un testamento ideológico del autor. A veces entretenida y a veces aburrida.
Rather than reading his autobiography, i probably should have read one of his key works, like Orthodoxy.
Ah, reading this book was like taking a walk through early 20th century London with my favorite author, and hearing him ramble on about people he knew, places he's been en thought's he's had (of which there are many), his stream of words often broken by a low chuckle or raucous laughter, of his own because of memories such as dressing up as cowboys with George Bernard Shaw to star in a cowboy film made by James Barrie (author of Peter Pan), or putting up a satirical play in a toy theatre with H.G. Wells, but also my own laughter due to his turns of phrase, his paradoxes and self-deprecation.
No one deploys verbal paradox like Chesterton, but I wonder if his rhetoric doesn’t sometimes outpace his argument.
The fireworks can feel like a distraction.
I suppose that’s part of what makes him a pleasure to read.
I suppose we need to keep the times in mind.
But reading his acknowledgment (in the mid-1930s) of a “Jewish problem” is disconcerting.
And while I can fully sympathize with the anti-imperialist position that leads him to oppose the Boer War, Chesterton acknowledges that racial prejudice played a part too.
Still, you like to think that Chesterton ought to have known better.

As Autobiographies go this is a terrible one! Not because he is a bad writer but because he doesn't really talk about himself at all. I did get a few great quotes out of this book, but all in all I didn't learn much of anything about G.K.C. I was particularly interested in his conversion and there was virtually nothing of that in there. I will need to find some good biographies on him in order to learn more as I am really interested to learn about the man that had such a huge influence on C.S. Lewis.
"Autobiografría" es un lujo. G.K. Chesterton es una gozada de principio a fin. Y en este libro este loco de la sensatez y el sentido común expone su vida desde un ensayo que sirve para realizar un fresco vívido y locuaz de la Inglaterra de la época (política, imperialismo, historia...) sino además de sus ideas, sus amistades... todo hecho con un humor genial y un estilo inconmensurable. Imprescindible. Como todo Chesterton.
This is a generally enjoyable read. Chesterton shares a handful of fun anecdotes and ideas. Unfortunately there was quite a bit in between that was mostly meaningless to me. Id est, lots of information about specific people or events or systems about which I didn't have enough capital to appreciate.(Also I read an old hardcover copy from my library that had a lot of great pictures dispersed through the pages.)
Picked this up just to browse through for any help with the Nelly project, but loved his prose - and some of it was pricelessly funny. I couldn't say I'd read every word, some of it was very dated, but some of it was so wise...
Shows how Chesterton’s original, and optimistic genius could not have developed without his family background. And reminds one of how the twisted and pessimistic outlook of other geniuses was so often the fruit of a very different family experience.
Tough read - GK is always amusing, and there are some great insights and musings he shared on his life, but much of this went over my head. It would help to be very familiar with turn of the century England to really understand what he's talking about. Fascinating man!
Classic Chesterton. Seemingly little organization, but a fun read nevertheless. Lots of little nuggets from his life. The ending was wonderful as he sought to answer the questions of his life that he posed at the beginning, regarding God and faith.
Chestertonian to the hilt. Not all chronological. Not all on definitions or straight lines. But in whimsy and character, insight and humilty-tinged humour, it is unsurpassable.If you like Chesterton, you can't go w rong. If you don't, you've gone wrong.
Li por aqui, em tom desabonador, que a retórica de Chesterton tende a superar o argumento. Não sei como isso pode ser visto como desabonador, já que boa parte da graça está aí.
A slow read, only because of the date of writing. Fascinating portrait of one of the great writers of all time.
This is actually the autobiography of other people, unknown to me, in beautiful as ever poetical form.
