https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90230.The_World_Crisis_1911_1918
Dear Mr Churchill, it took me years to read your book, please bear with me while I collect my thoughts for a moment at least.What can be said of this brick of a book, telling the story of the World Crisis, culminating in the Great War 1914-1918, as perceived by one of its witnesses and active participants?Is it biased?
Or will there spring from the very fires of conflict that reconciliation of the three giant combatants, which unite their genius and secure to each in safety and freedom a share in rebuilding the glory of Europe?"Here ends Churchill's account of World War I, published in 1930.
For much of the war he was head of the Admiralty until the Dardanelles.
There are some who compare this work favourably to his monumental Memoirs on the Second World War. I cannot agree.
The ‘World Crisis’ is more autobiographical (I suppose due to the limited role of Mr. Churchill) and has a narrower perspective.If Mr. Churchill had not attained immortal fame (and that would have been tragic indeed) during the Second World War, I do not believe this work would merit much attention today – except perhaps as a personal view of one of the many players of ‘The Great War’.
In his WWI opus he is an important cog in the war machinery but still a very ambitious man (the five volumes were released between 1923 and 1931 when he was 49 to 57 years old)…while in his WWII work he had already achieved greatness, had nothing more to prove, and could write with more clarity (the six volumes were released between 1948 and 1953 when he was 74 to 79 years old).
Overall this work focuses a bit more on the British naval activities rather than the allied army movements.
Winston Churchill’s reputation rest above all on his leadership during the Second World War. Churchill not only made history but he also wrote it.
Although Churchill did not attack the ‘brass hats’ as vehemently as Lloyd George did in his memoirs, Churchill’s criticism of Generals French, Haig and the commanders strengthened the negative image of the Great War generals that has prevailed to the present day, despite the efforts of revisionist historians.
The ten years after the Great War, Churchill wrote the four volumes of history which were combined into this book covering primarily British history from 1870 to 1918.
This book marks the turning point from War-as-Profession to War-as-Hobby. No longer can a child say, "Daddy, where do you work?" and daddy replies, "War." Instead, on weekends and evenings, as daddy heads into his garage and pulls down the door, the child is left to ask his mother, "Mommy, what is daddy doing?" and she replies, with a dish towel in one hand and a quickly spotting glass in the other, "War."
This book is an essential part of understanding The Great War and its world-wide complexities.
Victory there would have created a completely different 20th century.Clearly worth the time and effort during the 100th anniversary of the onset of this historic event.As one other reviewer mentioned, keep your PC warm with windows open to Wikipedia and Google.
You'll want them

A work in 6 volumes that contentiously holds the title of the "most comprehensive" history of the war. A modern abridgment (clocking in at around 850 pages, linked above) is readily available, and well worth a look. There are significant debates within WWI historiography about Churchill's judgments and biases, so it would be worth looking into them as well before taking everything within the book at face value. I'll have some books that would help with this in the Debates section below.
Some of his sneering critics said of this book that "Winston's written his autobiography disguised as a history of the universe." But this is a big book treating the First World War in which Churchill would play such a significant part until 1915 and the Dardanelles disaster, and then again later in Lloyd George's cabinet.
Winston Churchill claims invention of the tank, which I must say seems a rather obvious insight given the following starter facts: - moving beats standing still, especially in no-man's-land - internal combustion engines: stronger than horses - machine guns hurt, even if you live on a silly island with a king
Brilliant. Churchill’s grasp of the scale of the Great War, and his participation in its historical events, make for a fascinating read.
Finishing this book felt like losing a friend.
Here's my advice: don't use this book to learn the history of WWI.
Context - a lot of it - will help the reader to understand when and how Churchill is sharing his perspective of events with us, which is necessary to truly appreciate this work.Another Goodreads reviewer likened this to an early 20th century version of GWB's Decision Points.
Nonetheless, we don't see in Churchill that tendency too common to contemporary leaders: the desire to obfuscate the true account of events and stubbornly insist that every decision taken was the right one.Don't read this book to learn about WWI.
I'm a big fan of Churchill, and, having read the three volume work of Manchester (highly recommended) and some other scattered books about him, I wanted to read a book by him (I've already read most of his inspiring speeches).
The subject matter is fascinating to me, who didn't know much about WWI going into the book, having read only a few books on the subject: A World Undone, The Guns of August, and The Sleepwalkers.
In summary, this book is highly recommended for those who like Churchill or who want a magnificently written account of World War I by a key participant of that history.
Churchill was the civilian head of the British Navy (First Lord of the Admiralty) prior to and for the first two years of World War I.
This book, written in 1931, benefits from Churchill's full access to French and British high command thinking at every turn (not to mention his own participation as a senior war leader), as well as the documents and biographies of the German General Staff, including the correspondence of several key Generals, released after the War was concluded.
Throughout, Churchill is able to compare French and British military leaders' plans and their perceptions of the effects of their actions on the Germans, to their actual historic effects.
Whew...thank god for abridgements...Churchill's writing style can be described as magnificent (and perhaps rightly grandiloquent) and at times reading it I understood the comment attributed to Alfred Balfour that reading it was like reading Churchill's autobiography disguised as a history of the universe (from Wikipedia).
Churchill was First Lord of the Admiralty from the beginning of the War in 1914 through May 1915 and the abridgement is quite detailed for that period of time (chapters 1 through 32).
The remainder of the war, June 1915 through November 1918 are then covered in just 23 chapters (33-55)!
Written 90 years ago about an event that happened 100 years ago, prepare to Google several times per page to have any clue as to what Churchill is communicating.
(He was writing to an audience that would have known WWI, its lead up, and its aftermath as recent events.) A good idea might be to read a good contemporary WWI book first.
But, if you have the patience for all that, this can be a rewarding read.
I'm planning to read Barbara Tuchman's 1963 book, The Guns of August, first and then tackle this Churchill set again.
I actually finished Volume One about a month ago and am nearly finished Volume Two. It seemed to me that Churchill had to use the first volume to defend his decisions as First Lord of the Admiralty, having started writing these books shortly after the end of the war.
And rightfully so, because a lot was written both during and after the war holding him solely responsible for the Dardanelles in particular.
I am eager to finish all the volumes, not only to actually learn about the First World War, but honestly, so I can get to his later works on WWII, where the "real" Winston Churchill graces the pages.
There's a reason Churchill won the Nobel Prize for Literature.
As usual, his writing is both insightful, informative and edged with just enough Churchillian wit.
This book covers his experience in the British Cabinet during World War I.
While not as compelling as his writings on WWII (for obvious reaons perhaps) the history was extremely well done.
What I can't figure out is how Churchill found the time to be such a prolific writer with all that he did in his life.
Definitely recommended for anyone interested in a general overview of WWI - especially from the political end of things.
This is a first hand view of the first world war from the man that played a major role in it.
Churchill talks candidly about the mistakes that were made (including Gallipoli which he refuses to take the blame for) and the missed opportunities to end the war early.
Ominously, at the end of the book he admonishes the Allies for the harsh treatment meted out to the Germans at the end of the war.
And warns of the terrible consequences this may bring in the future.
He wrote this prediction in 1922 and could never have imagined how true it would turn out to be.
This book is interesting but not recommended to all. The positive is Churchill's views on some of the politics and flaws of coalition government in the UK during war. Also his broad view of events, like the need to attack Turkey at the time it did to relieve pressure on Russia and on the Western Front. His view of the war as a whole is also interesting. Much of the book though is devoted to clearing Churchill's record and much of this discussion seems self-serving.
One of the best books I've read in a long time. It was a "heavy" book with lots of detail, but so very interesting right up to the last page. This is the third or fourth Winston Churchill book I've read and I've never been disappointed in any of his books. If you want to learn more about the who's, what's, and causes of World War I I would highly recommend this book!
Very interesting book. It was interesting to read Churchill's own opinion of the Dardenelles Operation. He thinks that Lord Kitchener and Admiral de Roebeck did not do what they should have done. However, like Churchill says nothing is predictable in war, so if they had followed the Naval plan, it may not of worked. He says it just had more factors for it than the disastrous Gallipoli campaign.
"Abridged" (1 is not equal to 5)This needs to be clearly stated in every listing and review that this is a single volume abridgement of a 5 volume, 6 book series (Volume 3 has 2 parts). Those people who highly rated it might want to consider what they missed.
Churchill's love of the subject and knowledge make this work a great, easy read. I learned a lot and I love the way he goes back to Shakespeare and other literature to speak to historical veracity while reveling in the language...
Excellent look before WWI and 1914. Churchill has the ultimate insider point of view. Some insight into Dardanelles debacle. Note, this book is extremely detailed especially naval battles since WSC was Admiralty Lord.
Parts of the prose are unmistakably Winstonian; other parts appear to be less so, so it will be interesting to have a look in the future at the unabridged version.p761 - :-o
limited perspective review of WW1 (runup and initial 4 months) from an Admiralty perspective - beautifully written in classic English prose.
My favourite historical figure. An amazing historical record of the First World War.
Very often mis-states the facts and large sections are ghost written (for example, Kenneth Dewar wrote much of the chapter on the battle of Jutland).
