https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55019.Black_Cherry_Blues
Freeing himself will mean digging deeper into Dixie's connections in Montana.Burke weaves his trademark beautiful, evocative beginning, bringing the varied landscape of the deep south to life, from Louisiana to the edges of Texas.
In fact, it's fair to say that the setting stands in for Dave Robicheaux's emotions, and it seems to be raining quite a bit in the bayou these days.
I always want to visit the bayou after I'm finished with Dave Robicheaux.Highly recommended.
He’s putting his nose where some don’t think it belongs and threats to his six year old little girl are just one of the consequences.
Someone submitted a question: I'm looking for a better way to say badass that doesn't use any words that could be considered profanity (you won’t find it here).Trust me, this one was seriously good.
Author Ron Hansen wrote: “There’s plenty of action and adventure, but the novel is absorbing even in its quiet moments, when you watch Dave Robicheaux valiantly try to conduct his honest and honorable life.” The reader always gets more.I wonder where he’s taking me next time?
Black Cherry Blues is the third in the Dave Robicheaux series and a familiar pattern starts to emerge of a man shoving his nose where it has no place being, that generally puts both his life and everyone close to him in potential jeopardy.
I guess this is why good old Dave is a character you can't help but get emotionally invested in, whether it be good shit or bad shit, you're in it for the duration.
Mafia, the oil business and an Indian reservation all careen through Dave's life, even an Indian woman and the start of a relationship until the inevitable happens, destiny is a heavy weight on this man's shoulders and shit happens, as they say.
This novel is best suited for people who like a darkness of human character intertwined with an engaging clue trail amidst melancholy yet beautiful writing. Robicheaux is back and not too soon. This time around he's recovering from a horrible loss in his family, getting over his binge with alcoholism and wouldn't you know it but the poor guy tries to help an old college friend and gets framed for murder.  What's a detective to do? Apparently, drive to Montana with his foster daughter.I'm kidding
It's an electric silence that makes you feel you're sliding down the sides of the universe	“I'm sorry.”	“To be frank, so am I,” she said, and hung up.p. 39-40We sat at one of the checker-cloth tables on the screen porch by the way, a big bib with a red crawfish on it tied around Alafair's neck, and looked out at the sun setting across the miles of dead cypress, saw grass, the sandy inlets, the wetlands that stretches across Texas.
But as it turns out, he can't resist getting involved.In this book he and his daughter, Alafair, follow trouble all the way from Louisiana to Montana.Burke has some of the best descriptive powers of any writer, so much so that you think you're right there.There are a lot of evil people in this world and Dave Robicheaux seems to want to meet them all.
I sometimes get frustrated with all the trouble he gets himself into but I keep reading.James Lee Burke is one of my favorite authors.
I have read several of the books in the Dave Robicheaux series and this may be my favorite ...
A great story teller in every sense.In Black Cherry Blues Robicheaux is still dealing with the death of Annie and being a single parent to Alafair.
Now he works for a Montana oil business and for a small time wise guy named Sally Dio. He has a problem he would like to talk to Robicheaux about.
In very short time Dixie Lee's problem becomes Robicheaux's problem.
Dave Robicheaux is a very complex character.
Finally, a modern author who isn't afraid to take his time and use language as it is meant to be used in a novel!
Patterson tells a hell of a story...but Burke makes the read wholly worthwhile and rewarding."I believe every...man remembers the girl he thinks he should have married.
She reappears to him in his lonely moments, or he sees her in the face of a young girl in the park, buying a snowball under an oak tree by the baseball diamond.
But she belongs to back there, to somebody else, and that thought sometimes rends your heart in a way that you never share with anyone else."
I like to follow those books which are nominated and/or receive an Edgar.Must check it out but thought this was the first in the series, and I hope so because just read something which said, 'it just keeps getting better.' That's quite a compliment since this book was a great read with all the elements I, personally, love in a book.The characters were described with clarity, were easy to keep up with and the plot was fantastic.
The article she thought I would like (and I loved it) was an interview with Scottish crime writer Ian Rankin who said “The opening chapter of Black Cherry Blues, his first Dave Robicheaux novel, it is an absolute classic.
He’s been a homicide detective but apparently has little faith in their ability to solve the crime and find the real killer so he heads for Montana to sort things out where his murder charge is resolved (are you really surprised) in the midst of Native Americans fighting against a land hungry oil company (that’s probably a redundancy).
Personally, had I been the social worker, there is no way I would ever have placed Alifair with Dave given the level of violence with which he surrounds himself.But he does write beautifully.
Burke is a master of crime fiction, with not a weak book in the Dave Robicheaux series is a testament to his skills as a writer.
In places they don't even feel like crime novels, but rather standard fiction.
But when the action does take place he doesn't hold back!.
And in Dave's buddy Clete Purcell, we have one of the best supporting characters ever!.
Black Cherry Blues, the third in the series concerns links to a Great Sioux Reservation and some rather unpleasant gangsters, not as big as his later novels but it still packs a punch.
For any crime fan Burke is a must, for my money the earlier novels are his best.
Black Cherry BluesAnother winner by James Lee Burke! I didn't find this one quite as good as the first two but it was close. I'm hooked on this series and I love James Lee Burke. He is a one of a kind writer!
But I loved the author’s phrases and the art of his writing.Plot: the main guy Dave is framed for a crime.
For me at least the ending was happy, and I really enjoyed the unique phrases and rich descriptions.Dave is a flawed hero.
I don’t know but I liked it.)This book won the EDGAR AWARD for best novel in 1990.THE AUTHOR LIVES IN THE PLACES HE WRITES ABOUT.The two main locations in this story are Louisiana and Montana.
I loved the way she said the word Dave - in such a gentle and caring way.I think there was a problem with the sound equipment.
The first person viewpoint is a great aid in this and as I think about it...most series I really enjoy are written from the first person (Dick Francis comes to mind, though not technically a series writer).As with all the novels I've read so far, we continue to delve into the character of Dave Robicheaux.
It is a continuing theme throughout the Robicheaux series.I will say that the series continues to deepen, that the Robicheaux series get better as we read more of them.
Burke has created such complex and fully rendered characters that we will overlook the fact that our protagonist Dave Robicheaux is not a very likeable character:I almost pickup a little of John D.
Burke will have you care about Dave and this cast of characters.(the highest praise is to tell you there were moments I sat the book down, took a drink, and repeated: "it is only a book.
these people do not exist" )nobody describes scenery better than Burke,up to and including that last impeccable-nailed-it paragraph.
I often don't follow all the plot twists in mysteries, and this one is no exception. But I don't read Burke to try to figure out who killed who and why. I read Burke because he writes beautifully. Black Cherry Blues contains a set piece that could be pulled out and dropped into The Nick Adams Stories. And that final paragraph, oh my goodness, he's giving Gatsby a run for its money.
Landschaftsmaler James Lee Burke hat auch im dritten Band der Reihe um den Ex-Cop Dave Robicheaux ein Händchen dafür, die üppige Natur Louisianas und hier auch Montanas auf Papier zu bannen. Im Kontrast dazu gibt es harte Kerle, harte Worte, harte Taten. Diese Mischung macht immer Freude, liest sich sehr süffig und lässt einen dank der geschickten Figurenführung gespannt auf die weiteren Fortsetzungen warten.
finished this one today the 28th of august 2018 good read four stars i really liked it. enjoyed the scenery from montana...much of the story happens there.
Burke's literate, lyrical prose in the tough 'crime' genre is a breath of fresh air, his characters are wonderfully developed and memorable, and the star, Dave Robicheaux, is as complex a personality you'll encounter.
This series, so far, is simply fantastic.Black Cherry begins down in the bayou and ends there, but most of the action takes place in the mountains out west.
Early on and throughout the story Dave is helped by a Federal agent tracking the crew, his former partner on the New Orleans police force is likewise thoroughly involved in the action, and things get even more complex as Mafia characters are encountered and enmeshed in various conspiracies.
Burke takes the detective/crime novel to a highly literate level without losing the gritty subject matter.
Realistic characters, fantastic dialogue and a simple but engrossing plot make this story really jump off the pages.
Burke shifts the bulk of the story to Montana, which was a refreshing change from the Louisiana setting in the first two books.
Robicheaux reluctantly looks into the situation, and quickly finds himself in deep trouble, having to solve the crime to prove his own innocence in a third murder.
I can't wait to dig into the fourth book and see where Burke takes these characters.
I could read this author all day, every day.
The bad decisions taken by the protagonist doesn't feel like a way to move the plot forward but a genuine moment of indiscretion on part of a broken man.
So I won't be too bothered about them.Heaven's Prisoners still remains the best Robicheaux book and I remain skeptical how this level of consistency can be maintained through a series as long as this one but for now Robicheaux is firing on all cylinders and in absence of half stars I will round my rating off to 5 stars.
Yup, that's why (even if I was late to the party, even if James Lee Burke appeared on my radar screen later than most) I keep reading these books.
But, at the same time, they're lyrical, almost elegiac, bordering on literary ...
until I finish it.At this point, I've read as much Dave Robicheaux as I have Hackberry Holland, the latter of which I originally found more appealing.
Time will tell ...
when I next return to James Lee Burke (which I will) ...
Either way, it's pretty clear that Burke will remain a fixture on my want-to-read list for the foreseeable future.
This is a book that focuses more on Dave's interior experience than on the events surrounding him.This is also a book full of obliqueness and hidden depths.
We readers get the feeling that Dave is, maybe not an unreliable narrator, but certainly an incomplete narrator.
Don't be scared off of the rest of the book when you get hit by this scene.) He is also a recently-recovering alcoholic, he is taking care of an adopted daughter, and in the first half of the book he is framed for murder.
As for narrators -- there are two versions of the Dave Robicheaux books, one narrated by Mark Hammer and the other by Will Patton.
It has everything - great dialogue, complex characters, interesting bit parts, occasional humor, great descriptive passages, tension, danger, darkness, and depth.
Dixie is a brilliant mystery character - seedy, charming, basically decent despite his lunacy and alcoholism.
Dave's instinct is to stay away from Dixie's garbage, but he can't help but do a little investigating, and when he does, some oil company goons take an interest in him.
After they threaten his little girl's life, it gets personal, and Dave goes after them.
He goes up to Montana and tangles with a mobster named Sally Dio, and runs into his old police partner, Cletus Purcell, now a freelance hooligan.
I become easily bored with series' that rely solely on the case and much prefer a character study surrounded by a peripheral mystery.
It's only the third entry but the writing has been great and Burke does a fantastic job of straddling the line between the character and the case.
I want her to have it.And the whole time Dave is dealing with the heartbreak from the end of the previous book with Burke using a series of dreams/nightmares/hallucinations to work him over.Good story, great character, great writing.I'll end with this.
Dave is thinking back on a favorite memory from his younger days.I'll never forget that summer, though.
Dave’s best friend Clete Purcell is on a rampage because a woman Clete had plan to proposed to was murder.Author Burke is the master at creating and developing characters that makes you believe you know them and placing them in situations that will make fans say, I don’t see how they are going to get out of this one.
I’ve listened to stories narrated by Mark Hammer and enjoyed listening to him but Mr. Hammer just could not seem to find the right cadence or voices for the characters.
JLB's first of many in the Dave Robicheaux series.
Just to let you know, should you be unfamiliar with James Lee Burke, two of the DR series have been made into motion pictures.
Secondly, Tommy Lee Jones starred as DR in In the Electric Mist with the 'Confederate Dead'; I must say it was an outstanding movie, a bit of a surprise.I have listened to all of the Dave Robicheaux series now, oddly, reading the first one last.
Check out JLB, especially audio read by Will Patton, who I do believe is Dave himself.
Black Cherry Blues by James Lee Burke.The atmosphere is dark and the mood is also quite gloomy in this Dave Robicheaux book.
Dave is off the police force and battling his old habits and addictions.
Now an addict with no morals or purpose in life the darkness has just about taken over his very being.Dave's daughter, Alafair, is brought into the mix of things when Dave receives a message threatening her life.
There's evil out there that once Dave & Clete would battle against together...but now they have more than they can handle battling their own demons.
Wow, what can I say. I am not much of a writer, but I have to say that this is one of the BEST book I have every read, of any genre! I don't read - I listen to the audiobooks and when you can close your eyes when listening to one of Mr. James Lee Burke's novels it's like you are there - more than there. Beside the awesome plot, Burke paints a wonderful picture for the reader/listener.I am hooked!
riveting award winning story!
