https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/427281.Deep_Water
IL TALENTO DI Ms RIPLEYVic/Jean-Louis Trintignant e Melanie/Isabelle Huppert.Un romanzo dove Patricia Highsmith sfodera nella scrittura tutta la sua proverbiale misoginia - nonostante la sua nota bisessualità, che nel corso del tempo diventò omosessualità, per poi forse trasformarsi in misantropia tout court.Il film è del 1981, diretto da Michelle Deville.A dimostrazione, la moglie, Melinda, è particolarmente odiosa: superficiale, trascura la figlia, per tacere della famiglia, esagera con l’alcol e con i tradimenti, li sbatte in faccia al marito, Vic, dal quale non divorzia per mere ragioni pratiche (stabilità, denaro, comodità…).
A stunning psychological thriller, Patricia Highsmith's Deep Water serves a delicious tale of infidelity, jealousy, while dancing between the boundaries of human propriety and probing the psyche of a suffering husband at the end of his tethers. This appealed to me from the get go, a more congenial anti-hero I cannot remember reading. It has the same kind of quivering bite that people found fascinating in Gone Girl, and to a lesser extent in the Girl on the Train only with more restraint and refinement than the books aforementioned. Oh, boy!
Confucius Say: "A relationship is the opportunity to do something you hate with someone you love." Here that something is dancing, or not dancing.Vic and Melinda have a very unconventional marital arrangement.
He hates to dance and she loves it, so he encourages her to dance at parties with all the men she likes.
You see, Vic acts like nothing bothers him, but ohhh, that sociopathic mind of his never stops scheming and even thinks it clever to brag of murdering a previous, ahem, dance partner of hers.
If you know anything about Patricia Highsmith, I think you can figure out where this slow sauntering walk on the dark side leads.
According to Highsmith, (as related by Andrew Wilson in his biography), Deep Water explores " 'the sniping, griping ambushing,' that can exist between people who are supposed to love one another, locked together 'in a ballet of the wearing of the nerves.' " Frankly, that phrase describes this book perfectly, but that "wearing of the nerves" is also a great way to describe how I felt during and after reading this novel.
I always seem to side with the "bad" guy; she makes it so easy to understand his point of view and actually feel a huge amount of sympathy for him.Highsmith isn't for everyone, and as I'm discovering, it's becoming sort of necessary to space out reading her novels to maintain a measure of my own sanity.
Apparently, in 1950, when her first novel Strangers on a Train, was published, she had previously encountered resistance in America as an outspoken author on controversial themes.
She has skillfully executed the ability to interweave ordinary daily life with the mental processes of the sociopath.The tension in this novel was often subtle, but the spell was cast early in the book.
While reading this book, I frequently recalled and compared her characterizations with those of Ruth Rendell, AKA Barbara Vine.
Patricia Highsmith was the author of many books which I have not read, but now that I have rediscovered her, I shall pursue more of them.
Try reading Highsmith and not start to feel like killing a man is the most obvious solution to a problem....as if he had it coming, and you are so smart that no one will even know you did it.
Highsmith loves to turn a murder story on it's ear by getting you inside the mind of a man pushed to that limit and the next thing you know, you're sweating it out, worrying who saw you, wondering if any clues are going to give you away.
If you ever want to rationalize a murder, read a few Highsmiths.
I consider Patricia Highsmith to be one of my "literary idols." So, when Gillian Flynn picked DEEP WATER as her Wall Street Journal book club book, I bought it immediately.
Yeah, I should have known: I didn't love GONE GIRL, therefore, I am not surprised that I didn't love DEEP WATER.Written in 1957, DEEP WATER is the story of Vic and Melinda Van Allen, an unhappily married couple living in Massachusettes.
Melinda has one affair after another, right under Vic's eyes.
Melinda has affair after affair, while Vic sits back and does nothing (until he does "something").
3.5 starsDeep Water is the fifth of Patricia Highsmith’s psychological thriller novels and tells the story of a loveless marriage and the calmly collected resident psychopath living in plain sight behind the facade of domesticity in middle class 1950s surburbia.“Little Wesley’s number one cuckold”, thirty-six-year-old Victor Van Allen is to all intents and purposes an upstanding model citizen living a quiet and unassuming life in the midst of a small suburban town.
Very fascinating character study, filled with suspense. A bit predictable, but very well written.
Patricia Highsmith is a master of suspense.
Deep Water shares with her other books a certain remarkable slowness.
Highsmith's characters unhurriedly attend to the minutiae of their lives.
Very often it seems that nothing is happening in her books; and yet, as the pages turn, the reader becomes more and more tense, wondering when precisely the axe will fall--for it certainly will fall.
By the end of Deep Water the pages turn very fast indeed.The most remarkable thing in my opinion is the fact that you, as the reader, identify yourself with Vic Van Allen, the evil one, the murderer.
This is the typical Highsmith theme.
Deep Water, a slow-paced psychological thriller, is set in a Cheeveresque, Updikesque New England town in the 1950s, where drinks are downed nearly all day long, and dinner and pool parties frequent.
Melinda Van Allen is a horrible mother and an inadequate wife; she stopped having sex with her husband Vic years ago and is frequently drunk.
Vic Van Allen is a calm man, literate, with hobbies like snail breeding, a great father, loving with their daughter Trixie and attending all her school functions while Melinda can't be bothered.
Vic is popular among his neighbors, while Melinda sets tongues wagging disapprovingly.
While this doesn't rank up there with Ripley, The Price of Salt, or Strangers on a Train, it's still Highsmith and that puts it far above most twentieth-century American authors. Slow-building dread in suburbia, this one made me think of George and Martha from Albee's Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? Only a lot more lethal...
I picked this book up because it fit a challenge I was participating in. I wasn't expecting to like it too much but it was better than I predicted. I liked how you couldn't help but sympathize with Vic because his wife was a nightmare but at the same time you can see why she is a nightmare if he is able to do the things he does in this book and still be "normal." Decent read but a bit predictable.
Highsmith, Patricia. DEEP WATER. (1957). ****. Aside from the disappointing – to me – ending, this is an excellent psychological mystery by Ms. Highsmith. It is very different from her Ripley novels, although her main character, Vic, is very much the same as Ripley. Vic is married to Melinda. Vic owns a printing company that does special limited editions of selected works in a collectable format. His company doesn’t make a profit, but he continues with it because he has an independent source of
Vic owns a printing company that does special limited editions of selected works in a collectable format.
Vic is painfully aware of her gad-about ways, but puts up with it in order to keep his marriage together.
He doesn’t really love her, but he loves the peace and quiet of a simulated marriage that allows him to keep on with his printing work and to pursue his hobbies.
Turns out that his wife is a bigger source of angst to him than any of her lovers were, but he doesn’t know what to do about it.
Thanks to the Tournament of Books, I discovered the great podcast So Many Damned Books. On a recent episode with Meagan Abbott, Drew and Christopher discussed Deep Water. Patricia Highsmith wrote terrific suspenseful novels. Hopefully, someone will develop this into a film.
We are in fact so deep in Vic's head that sometimes when I came back to the book after a break I was surprised that the POV was not in the first person.
By acting calm and detached, Vic makes Melinda look crazy and thus wins sympathy rather than suspicion.There are wonderful details and unexpected bits, for example, Vic's fascination with the love lives of snails (the description of gastropodic eroticism alone is worth the price of admission), though it is rather sad as we know he has had almost no intimate time with his wife, or anyone else, for what is most likely years.So if this book is so good, why only three stars?
First-rate Highsmith -- as good as the best of the Ripley novels. She is supreme when it comes to creating psychopaths who pass unnoticed among us.
BOOK 132 - Mid-20th Century North American Crime Readathon - Round 5Highsmith writes to a certain target audience with lines like"Dostoyevsky had known what he (Vic Van Allen, husband in the story) meant.
Then one of Melinda's own lovers is murdered.CHARACTERS= 4: The story is told from Vic Van Allen's POV.
Melinda is a beauty, a flirt, and flaunts her lovers but Vic just shrugs.
Melinda's lovers consists of Joel Nash (Trixie calls him Jo-Jo), Larry Osbourne, Malcolm McRae (the man who has been murdered before the book opens), and many others.
DEEP WATER , erschienen 1957, war Patricia Highsmith fünfter Roman. Sie hatte enormen Erfolg gehabt mit STRANGERS ON A TRAIN und auch ihr ein Jahr zuvor erschienener Roman THE TALENTED MR. RIPLEY, der die Figur des Tom Ripley eingeführt hatte, war gut aufgenommen worden. Doch wollte sich die Schriftstellerin nicht auf die Zeichnung rein amoralischer Figuren festlegen und entwarf für den vorliegenden Roman ein vollkommen anderes Setting mit komplett anderen Voraussetzungen. Ein freundlicher Mann,
Mögen darin versteckte Hinweise auf eine weibliche Psychologie liegen, die im Widerstreit liegt zwischen moralischem Ermessen, Wut auf ein zu enges Leben, der Anziehung einer gewissen Männlichkeit und dem inneren Flehen danach wahr- und ernstgenommen zu werden – so, wie Highsmith die Figur anlegt und ausarbeitet, bleibt nichts mehr, das uns mit ihr fühlen ließe.Im Gegenteil - im Verhältnis Melindas zur Umwelt weht ein Hauch „Ripley“ durch den Roman: Wie Marge ist sie die einzige, die die Wahrheit erkennt, sie ausspricht und wieder und wieder darauf hinweist, was es mit Vic und seiner Gutmütigkeit auf sich hat, es hört ihr aber niemand zu.
This is the best book about a fucked-up marriage I've read so far. Gone Girl is nothing compared to this. 'The winter's going to be even more boring - without a break somewhere,' he said.'Oh, I don't think it's going to be boring,' she said.He smiled. 'Is that a threat?''Take it the way you like.''Are you going to put arsenic in my food?''I don't think arsenic could kill you.' These people should've never gotten married. Vic hates Melinda because she doesn't even try to hide her affairs, and the
Until, of course, they do catch the actual murderer, and (unfortunately for Vic) things go back to the way they were before, in his life and most importantly in his marriage.So Vic needs to find another way to improve his situation, no matter what...Vic and Melinda are amazing characters, and I loved and hated both of them equally.
The story is told from Vic's POV, and it's fascinating how he can rationalize pretty much everything he does ((view spoiler)[including murder, obviously (hide spoiler)]), and keep telling himself that he's the victim, really, because his wife is having affairs and accusing him of things he has actually done.
“Is that a threat?”“Take it the way you like.”“Are you going to put arsenic in my food?”“I don’t think arsenic could kill you.” A famous nobody once said that a good book is opening to a random page and being immediately interested, wanting to keep on reading from the random page.
That’s what it’s all about, stimulating the imagination in a way that makes you believe without a doubt in your mind that the things happening on the page are real, even though you know – in a work of fiction – that they’re not.
Deep Water is another top-notch novel from Patricia Highsmith, up there with the best of the Ripleys for me.
The book was published in 1957, two years after The Talented Mr Ripley with which it shares a focus on the psychological – in other words, the motives that drive certain individuals to behave in very sinister ways.
Once again, Highsmith encourages us to side with an outwardly respectable man who secretly harbours psychopathic tendencies.
The way she does this is so clever; she knows exactly how her readers will respond to each of her characters, thereby creating a situation where we feel sympathy for a murderer and contempt for the woman who has made his life so difficult.To read my review, please visit:https://jacquiwine.wordpress.com/2017...
Δεν θα το χαρακτήριζα αστυνομικό, μου έκανε περισσότερο με ψυχολογικό δράμα/θρίλερ με λίγο από έγκλημα, με μικρές και ενδιαφέρουσες νότες σασπένς και έντασης (ειδικά στο τέλος!).Ο Βικ είναι ένας διανοούμενος τυπογράφος με πολλά χόμπι, παντρεμένος με την όμορφη Μελίντα, πατέρας μιας γλυκιάς κορούλας και κάτοικος ενός μεγάλου σπιτιού σε μια κωμόπολη της Μασαχουσέτης.
Ο Βικ είναι ένας έξυπνος, ήσυχος τυπάκος με χιούμορ, που δεν μπορεί να συγκρατήσει το εκρηκτικό ταμπεραμέντο της γυναίκας του.
Αν θέλετε όμως ένα καλογραμμένο και ενδιαφέρον ψυχολογικό-κοινωνικό δράμα με περίεργες οικογενειακές καταστάσεις, περιγραφές μιας επαρχιακής κοινωνίας και λίγο έγκλημα, τότε σίγουρα αξίζει τον χρόνο σας.
Highsmith does it again in this disturbing story of a suburban marriage gone awry.
Vic Van Allen lives off a trust fund left by his father and publishes small runs of exclusive books.
Vic put up with this behavior because he still loved Melinda and wanted to keep the marriage together.
He is a good father and well respected in his small community.
With painstaking pacing the plot shows the gradual breakdown of Vic's tolerance for Melinda's behavior.
She comes across as deeply psychopathic but Vic is increasingly troubled by jealousy and his friends' reactions to Melinda.
From the outset, you take a stance.Then comes the challenge: your adopted protagonist crosses the very same moral line across which you angrily peer!
Do you go with him, or switch your allegiance?Tantalising.If I had a criticism of this book – and perhaps the author’s works in general – it is that her skill lies in taking you on the journey – but not necessarily in reaching a wholly satisfactory destination.However, given life’s aphorism about ‘journeys and destinations’, I shall continue to travel with her.
but, I’ll round upward.My disenchantment especially surprises me because of the kudos given this writer of STRANGERS ON A TRAIN and THE TALENTED MR.
I had not read either of those (although I enjoyed the film version of STRANGERS ON A TRAIN), but I had in my mind that she might be another P.D. James.The truth was that there was so much concentration on the mechanics of the story that I thought character development suffered.
I was curious about how the story would end.
At the same time, I was very much looking forward to the ending so that I could put this one behind me.
Menace and foreboding rooted in every day life and among apparently normal people are the hallmarks of esteemed crime writer Patricia Highsmith.
Author of the famous Tom Ripley series, beginning with the classic The Talented Mr. Ripley, Highsmith is an expert at crafting psychopaths, sociopaths and on-the-edge characters who often get away with their dastardly deeds.
The late Highsmith wrote primarily during the 50s and 60s but her work still resonates with readers, myself among them.
Deep Water tells the tale of Vic Van Allen and his loose wife Melinda who live in an idyllic suburban town in the Berkshires.
While the amiable Vic outwardly tolerates Melinda’s affairs, something Is brewing under his seemingly complacent veneer.
Till Death Do Us PartDeep Water is a classic Highsmith tale of Vic, un urbane, intelligent book loving sociopath and his wife Melinda, a sexual predator who has affairs with a succession of young men under the eyes of her husband and their friends and neighbours.
This is a precise, almost clinical tale of the deconstruction of a marriage and the feelings that lurk under the outwardly calm exterior of Vic who finds the sexual cominglings of snails more absorbing than relations with his adulterous wife.Highsmith is the mistress of claustrophobic dread.
Highly recommended
Deep Water has all the qualities of a good novel and great thriller, but its magic is in how Highsmith creates such strong sympathy and admiration for the protagonist, who also happens to be a killer.Victor van Allen is a model husband, loving father and pillar of the community.
Even if the result is terrible, we are so much on Vic's side and have been so longing for action that it is greeted with relief rather than horror.Being able to relate strongly with a character and feel what they feel is a quality of my favourite novels, but with Victor Van Allen I have found sympathy with a murderer and throughout the novel I was rooting for him.
His friends put up with his heavy-drinking, overly flirtatious wife Melinda, take extra care of him at cocktail parties and dances (of which there are many), and laugh appreciatively when Vic subtly claims he killed off one of his wife's ex-lovers (which he didn't) to frighten off the lovers she flaunts before him at late nights in their living room.
And what a superbly drawn pathological decline Ms Highsmith gives us, portrayed through the everyday, mundane activities of Vic, his wife, their friends and his enemies.
