https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3762.On_Her_Majesty_s_Secret_Service
(A-) 82% | Very GoodNotes: James Bond, sentimental Scot, recurrently finds direction, rejuvenation and repair in the broken girl with the fast car.
Fleming is not really one to play up the mushy stuff, but it's through these little tidbits that James's true feelings become clear.As he drives to visit Vesper, he is crafting in his mind his letter of resignation to M.
But after this second round of sex, instead of planning a fun day of eating and swimming and gambling together like Bond wants to do, the woman has a bit of a freak-out.
This is only the second time we've seen Bond really in love with a woman - not since Vesper Lynd in Casino Royale has James ever had these kinds of feelings for a woman.
Fleming’s use of characters’ war time experience in the novels is a recurring theme that the lines of good and evil can be blurred, most readily revealed as Bond’s own conscious about killing opponents.This is of course also one of the Blofeld novels (along with Thunderball and You Only Live Twice – though he is more widely used in the films).
Akin to Bond’s more humanistic elaboration, Fleming also takes more time to explore Blofeld’s past and shows an oddly individualistic and even vulnerable side to the arch villain.One of the better Bond novels.*** I watched the 1969 Peter R.
“When the odds are hopeless, when all seems to be lost, then is the time to be calm, to make a show of authority – at least of indifference” ― Ian Fleming, On Her Majesty's Secret ServiceOne of my favorite Bond novels so far.
It contains most of the things that draws people to Bond novels and movies (action, intrigue, charm, violence) and tones down some of the more obnoxious parts too (sexism, racism, etc).
The character of Bond is fascinating in this novel as his normal cycle with women is warped a bit.
Rating: 4.5* of fiveAgain a reminder that this is a review of the 1969 film, not Fleming's novel.
The fact that her "father" is played by an Italian actor pretending to be Spanish and she's as British as shepherd's pie (and about as attractive, but then I'm pretty much immune to female aesthetic appeal), well it's a Bond film so one goes with it.Joanna Lumley plays one of Blofeld's Angels of Death.
I think it's a shame he wasn't.Pleasant way to pass a few hours, nice to look at, oh and the song!
Whereas the previous book tore everything up to give a very different kind of Bond tale, this novel merely tweaks things to give - a still recognisable, but - far more affecting James Bond adventure.This is of course the book where James Bond gets married.
I don’t really see it as a traditional love story – it’s far too sharp and sudden for that – but I can see these characters as two lonely wanderers who want a more secure life and see in each other someone who would make that possible.
Other classmates were carrying around Stephen King and other authors whose books included more sex and bad language than anything included in the James Bond books, but his bed hopping behavior from the movies made the principal assume that the books were filled with nudity and sexual escapades.
I chose this particular Bond novel to read (#11 in the series) because it is my favorite Bond movie and because it was the book I was restricted from reading at school.
Every audiobook I have listened to with Tennant as narrator has been excellent -- and this one is no exception.
I enjoyed re-visiting this book so much that I'm adding the rest of this series to my TBR plans for this year.
This book written by Ian Fleming is the 2nd installment of the Blofeld trilogy, the 1st being "Thunderball" and the 3rd being "You Only Live twice".
The first attempt was stopped by 007 and the second attempt is written about in this novel OHMSS.James Bond in the beginning of this novel is thinking about his future with the secret service after spending too much time chasing Blofeld and never getting anywhere or even close to the man or his organisation.
The movie while having the one time 007 actor George Lazenby is a very faithful but enlarged version of the Fleming book.
Hand on my luggage when a voice says:‘Is that your luggage ma’am?’And you look up and say ‘yes’ to the female security guards who ask you to ‘come this way’.‘Do you know why we are going to search your bags, ma’am?’I give a seriously stressed out answer because I’m seriously stressed out.‘So that I miss my plane?’‘It’s because you have a large knife in your bags, ma’am.’Do they think I’m a complete idiot?
Manny comes over and I tell him when he asks, ‘They are looking for the large knife we packed this morning.’ Spoken with all the sarcasm I could muster, which was quite a lot.Losing it in Switzerland isn’t a great idea.
This however gives us James' personal life without "soaping" it up.James is ready to resign in the opening of this book, frustrated in his failure to find Blofeld and SPECTRE.
Bond likes Tracy, and wants to help her but won't marry her.
But James doesn't.Following certain "leads" James gets back in the search for Spectre however and the story moves on from there.Not giving the entire detailed rundown (after all you still want to read the book) Bond traces hunts finds and fights.
While recovering James realizes he's in love with Tracy and proposes.Then Bond mounts an assault and new attempt to capture (or whatever) Ernst Stavro Blofeld.
"OHMSS" is the middle segment of what has come to be known as "the Blofeld trilogy," which began with 1961's "Thunderball" (in which Bond and Blofeld do not meet) and concluded with 1964's "You Only Live Twice." (1962's "The Spy Who Loved Me," which followed "Thunderball," was practically a peaceful interlude by comparison!) I hadn't read "OHMSS" in over 40 years, but had fond memories of it being one of the best of the author's 14-book series, and a recent rereading has served to demonstrate how accurate my memories have been.
"On Her Majesty's Secret Service" was my first James Bond book, and it was exactly what I had wanted it to be: fast-paced, reasonably well-written, and enjoyable overall. Bond, as a character, was a bit more introspective than I had expected he'd be, and while the book was a touch misogynistic, it wasn't as terribly so as I had feared going in. While the book met my expectations, it never really went beyond them, thus the three-star rating. I'll probably read more Bond books, as this one was fun, but can't see myself becoming a huge Ian Fleming fan.
This is probably the first of the Bond movies to have a somewhat surreal tone to it (Lazenby wears a kilt at one point and hypnosis to cure allergic reactions to things like...
Just brilliant.As far as the book - again with the surprises!
I'm not going to say that those are the reasons that I liked this book (and maybe even the movie) more than the others I've read so far, but they're probably contributing factors.Next up...
I think this one is my favourite of the Bond novels. Espionage, romance, action etc. Bond is still on the hunt for Blofeld and SPECTRE, but instead he finds Tracy and even love and marriage. Bond is at his most human in this novel.
Lazenby is a good Bond (and it's remarkable how well he handles the final scene, which is the diciest of them all).* With a brand new actor playing the role and it's longer running time (it was the longest Bond film to date and held the record until Daniel Craig's "Casino Royale" beat it out decades later), it's regrettable that the producers still chose to make it about Movie Bond (toned down a bit, it's true) rather than Book Bond.
Good! It has been awhile since I have seen the movie, but from what I remember the book and the movie are fairly similar.
After watching the James Bond movie 'On Her Majesty's Secret Service' last week, I thought I will read the book and compare.
One of my friends says that Bond movies are better than the books.
Inspite of its flaws, I liked the movie more - the scenes are more dramatic and the scriptwriters have taken liberty with the book in mostly the right ways.I thought Ian Fleming's prose was good, but it is passable at best.
You could even say this book has a theme: that of "family." Bond doesn't just get married.
Tracy disappears from the middle section of the book and has little to do with the Blofeld plot until she appears out of nowhere to rescue Bond (babeus ex machina).
I don't think it would have required too much effort for Fleming to place Tracy on Blofeld's mountain (or at least the periphery); but, then again, that would mean Bond would not have been able to seduce one of Blofeld's women so...it's a wash I guess.
I don't know what came over me but I decided to read all of Ian Fleming's James Bond books as well as see, or see again, all of the movies.
The part of my autobiography I am currently working on involves the Cold War years and its effect on my life as a young adult, so I thought reading these books and watching the movies would give me the flavor of that from a spy's perspective.
Though there were more literary authors writing spy fiction during the Cold War (John le Carre, Graham Greene, etc), I think it was the glamorous James Bond who captured our imagination in the United States and the movies just inflamed us more.I made a list of the books.
You Have All The Time in The WorldOn Her Majesty's Secret Service is the tenth novel in Ian Fleming's James Bond series.
Fleming wrote the book in Jamaica whilst the first film in the Eon Productions series of films, Dr. No, was being filmed nearby.After The Spy Who Loved Me’ ‘On Her Majesty’s Secret Service’ is a return to form.
In some ways it is a typical Fleming book.
Fleming does insist on protracted explanations of card games and alpine sports.In summary, On Her Majesty's Secret Service is a notable chapter in the saga of James Bond.
Let me preface this by saying that I read the James Bond books because of the adventures, not for the "love".
Because the "love" in these stories is apparently the male fantasy.
Why anyone would want a woman to act like these women do is beyond me.
And sorry to say Ian Fleming has no idea what women are really like.
He can't honestly believe that most women have rape fantasies.
Being man-handled--yes--but raped?
Why do I read these books when they irritate me so?
Because there aren't a lot of adventure books out there that appeal to me.
Those having read Ian Fleming’s “On Her Majesty’s Secret Service”, I think, had to encounter its 2-chapter tough lengthy pages on Bond’s escape by skiing, I knew their description was from the author’s expertise. However, it was not easy to visualize along his seeming stream of consciousness, especially to those who had never skied or trekked on snowy mountains; therefore, reading Chapter 16 ‘Downhill Only’ and Chapter 17 ‘Bloody Snow’ more or less hopelessly relied on imagination, in other words, those with their direct experience would definitely enjoy reading them more.
Bond gets married! Her fate is predictable of course. Date read is a guess.
Forget ever James Bond movie you ever saw when you read the books. These are much more a mystery/adventure story. Recommended
Here's the original review:[[As I'm winding my way closer to finishing the original Bond novels, I am frustrated.
So I force myself to go back to my first few reviews, to redefine what it was that compelled me to enjoy and seek to read this series.1) The character: Bond is amazing.
Despite having seen the films, seeing these predicaments work themselves out in print was an entirely new gamut of fun.
In the first few novels, Fleming was able to tell his stories, tropes and all, with a degree of finesse, keeping the reader keyed into Bond's travails, hopeful for his well return.
This Bond title is probably best known for the movie version because it is the only one to star George Lazenby.
The novel is largely known as the most emotional of the Bond novels for there is true romance and love here as well as a horribly tragic ending which will leave Bond in a state of depression at the beginning of the next book, You Only Live Twice.
Bond does succeed in his mission to stop Blofeld’s scheme but one can’t help but feel he has lost far more than he has won this time around.Only three more books to go in the series (covering 4 stories) and I look forward to each of them.
The first time I read the Bond books I was a teenager, and at that tender age I have to confess that I thought Fleming actually knew what women were all about, which probably explains my spectacular lack of success with them in my younger years.
On reading them a second time around, I have to say (and it seems I'm not the first), the guy had no idea about women.So, if we accept that Fleming was a social neanderthal, we can concentrate on the story.
So you're left with the entertainment factor, and this time around Fleming does a reasonable job.
So far this is the best of the James Bond novels I have read. 007 goes to Switzerland after Ernst Stavro Blofeld and his SPECTRE minions disguised as a member of the College of Heralds to back up Blofeld's false claim to be of noble birth. There is a great ski chase down a closed slope complete with hand grenades, avalanches, and a grisly death by a locomorive's snow blower. Also, 007 falls in love in the course of On Her Majesty's Secret Service and actually gets married. I won't say what happens, but you can pretty much guess.
Практически год спустя после прочтения ужасной 10-й части "бондианы" я набрался смелости и решил прочитать (и прочитал) следующую. Она оказалась достаточно интересной, по крайней мере, лучше многих других книг в серии!!!Больше всего мне понравился собственно сюжет. Он получился логичным, ясным, не затянутым и динамичным!Из минусов это, конечно же, странная любовная линия (ну, не может этот человек писать о любви!!!!), и привычные для Флеминга национализм и снобизм, а также целая куча рекламы (фильмы о Бонде этим тоже знамениты)! Но в целом мне понравилось, было нескучно!!!
This choice to return to the casino is framed by the writing of his resignation letter from the secret services, he feels as though he's finally had his fill and wants to spend the rest of his life abroad.
Action comes and goes very quickly but its not without reason, clearly this Blofeld is not only hard to track and pin down but he also has the ability to evacuate quite quickly if need be and Mr. Fleming writes the ending of this story with that in mind.The only problem I had with this book was that it seems to fall in a weird place between a character study and an action novel, almost as if it wants to have its cake and eat it too.
