https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/443658.Howliday_Inn
Victor Garber does a wonderful job of voicing the many characters in this whodunnit mystery. Howard the dog and Chester the cat are as lovable as in Bunnicula, but the story was long and wordy, so my kids seemed to lose interest toward the end. 2.5 stars
The books were generally free of real conflict and stakes but fun for a tyke.Then there's this one.Doughty but slightly slow Harold and paranoid housecat Chester are dumped at a kennel while their master's vacation.
As Harold and Chester are informed of their vanishings and deaths, they quickly realize they have to solve the case to survive.Seriously, this is a book when our heroes contemplate if a bulldog would poison a poodle to keep an illicit paramour.Howliday Inn has a surprising amount of tension, stakes, and menace for a kid's book about talking animals.
Probably my favorite of the series. Chester, who has clearly read far too much Poe and Agatha Christie, smells a mystery the minute they get to Chateau Bow-Wow, while Harold is more concerned with the dynamics of the new animals they meet. There are toy poodles vying for the affection of a bulldog, and a cat who his even more insane than Chester. I think my kids were even more invested in this one than the first one.
Pretty good follow up to Bunnicula. While not as entertaining or humorous as the previous installment, it’s still an enjoyable read and we get to spend some more time with Harold and Chester.
One of the few series that I remember fondly from my childhood and is just as funny and enjoyable when I go back to it as an adult. This book doesn't have Bunnicula in it but Chester and Harold are more than capable of carrying the story on their own as they spend some time at an animal boarding house that Chester is convinced is infested with werewolves. Another really cute and fun story in this series, really glad I decided to reread them!
La nueva aventura de la pareja dispareja formada por el inteligente, aunque algo disparatado, gato Chester y su asistente, el leal, aunque algo ingenueo, perro Howard los lleva a un hotel para mascotas donde sus humanos los dejan mientras se van de vacaciones.
Por supuesto, los personajes son uno de los puntos fuertes del libro y logran encarnar los esterotipos que sobre perros y gatos se tiene en la cultura popular...
James Howe presented the setting of this book by saying there was a dog named Harold, and a cat named Chester.
During their first night they observed strange howling noises and Chester explained to Harold that those were the cries of werewolves.
I personally loved the characters and the setting as well as the "scary mystery" theme.
I would highly recommend this book to people who like mystery.
You will like this book if you have read Bunnicula and The Compund because the books have a lot of adventure.
I hope you have as much fun as I did when reading this book!
The book doesn't have as much comedy for the reader while at times it does seem to drag on even though the other characters add their own crazy touch to spice up the events.
The writing is simple to read and will be good for young readers who are branching out to chapter books while at the same time still enjoying the pace of a smaller book.
All in all it was an okay read but one that I wouldn't have suggested as a needed follow-up read for young or older readers who are fans of Bunnicula, Chester, Harold or the Monroes.
Our girls loved Bunnicula: A Rabbit-Tale of Mystery, and so we decided to read more of the books in this series.
This story was a little more intense, and at one particularly dramatic point in the story, my husband asked what I reading to our girls and why was it so filled with talk of kidnapping and murder.
But overall, it was a fun, and pretty harmless book to read aloud and we read over 100 pages in one sitting - the story was that engaging and drew us in so well!
We will definitely read more in this series.
I remember reading this book as a kid. Unfortunately it's advertised as a standalone novel but to understand the plight of the characters, you have to have read James Howe's Bunnicula series, so you'll have to pay a boatload of cash to get the series. I did like Howliday Inn; it's quirky, off-beat humor was rather dark but still appropriate for children. The book is vividly written, illustrated in black and white and has a very original plot. At times it got a bit silly though, which was kinda annoying.
I recall adoring this series as a child. One of my elementary school teachers read a few of them out loud to our class. Some reviewers said that kids had trouble keeping track of the characters, but I don't think anyone I knew had any trouble. I would recommend these books to parents as good audio books for car rides. Entertaining enough for everyone.
This was my favorite of the series when i was a kid, and I enjoyed it just as much as an adult. I like the murder mystery aspect to it, and the new animal characters, and I thought the interactions between Harrison and Jill were strange and interesting (and they eventually made sense).
One of my favorite childhood books. A must read.
i like this book alot because it is kind of like a haunted house book.
A fantastic book, and possibly the single best book on tape I heard in my entire young life.
Just an adorably written children's series. Great for reading aloud to your kids, especially in October. My only regret is that I didn't discover these books until now.
This was one of my favourite books when I was young. Thought it would be fun to re-read after so many years. Still enjoyable.
A fun read with my seven year old. Not as enjoyable as the first book, but Chester's adventurous nature sure makes for an interesting story.
That is, of course if you ask Chester the cat!
According to Chester it also seems a game of murder is afoot!This book reads like a fun Agatha Christie novel with a cast made up of talking animals!
The leads are of course Harold the Dog and Chester the Cat!
Chester and Harold's plans are ruined when they are carted off to stay at Chateau Bow Wow while the Monroes go on vacation.
At Chateau Bow Wow they meet a lot on new characters and a mystery falls in their furry laps.
This sequel to 'Bunnicula' focuses on Chester and Harold and their adventures at Chateau BowWow. The author introduces a whole new cast of interesting characters, from a Poodle to a Bulldog to two Doxin dogs (who may or may not be crossbred with werewolves).
Harold and Chester must find out before it's too late!This is a solid follow-up to the first book, even though the titular rabbit character wasn't in the book much at all.
It is a fascinating tale that will pull you into the mystery surrounding Chateau BowWow.
I purchased this book. Howliday Inn is the second book in the Bunnicula series. Our favorite vampire bunny is missing in this one, as the Monroes are on vacation and four-legged detectives Harold and Chester are being boarded at Chateau Bow Wow, a facility that seems to be cursed or haunted as the occupants begin to disappear. Not-terribly-bright, but lovable Harold suspects murder. Clever, but overly paranoid Chester suspects werewolves. Then tragedy strikes, leaving Harold alone to try to stop
Howliday Inn is the second book in the Bunnicula series.
Our favorite vampire bunny is missing in this one, as the Monroes are on vacation and four-legged detectives Harold and Chester are being boarded at Chateau Bow Wow, a facility that seems to be cursed or haunted as the occupants begin to disappear.
Not-terribly-bright, but lovable Harold suspects murder.
Clever, but overly paranoid Chester suspects werewolves.
The first book in series had a camp-horror feel, but this one is heavily mystery.
With crazy characters, a twist ending and a real bad guy, Howliday Inn is good for budding mystery lovers and pet lovers.
This one wasn't as fun as Bunnicula was. The story was a bit drawn-out, there were too many new characters to keep track of, and the family and Bunnicula were missing (on vacation) the entire time. But, while I didn't enjoy it as much as the first book, my 10-year-old loved it. A new character joined the family at the end, so we are interested in reading book 3 to see what happens next.
Another delightfully silly book involving my favorite dog and cat duo. This time they are figuring out the mysteries at puppy/cat boarding.
Since Bunnicula, the character, is the best part of the first book, and he doesn't make more than a fleeting appearance here, the book suffers for it.
Not as good as Bunnicula - much harder to follow and missing the suuuuppppeerrrnnaattuurrrrrrraaaalll vibe. Chester and Harold are boarded and suspicious things are going on.
On the animals' very first night there, the silence is pierced by a peculiar wake-up call -- an unearthly howl that makes Chester observe that the place should be called Howliday Inn.But the mysterious cries in the night (Chester is convinced there are werewolves afoot) are just the beginning of the frightening goings-on.
Is checkout time at Chateau Bow-Wow going to come earlier than Harold and Chester anticipated?"Alright, I'll just come out and say this right away...
I'm pretty sure even as a kid I thought this because while I remember book 1 and book 3, I don't really remember anything about book 2.Book 2 in the series, Howliday Inn, drops the horror elements altogether and instead went with the straight up mystery approach.
Looks like Harold, the dog, and Chester,the cat, are going to spend the week at Chateau Bow-Wow while their human family are off on vacation.
Nor were they expecting the adventure they had!Arriving at Chateau Bow-Wow, Harold and Chester meet their fellow borders: Louise - a French poodle, Max - a turtle-neck wearing bulldog, Georgette - a dog (these three are part of a triangle...maybe), Taxi - a mutt of a dog, Lyle - a wacky cat, and Howard and Heather - a pair of dachshunds.
Why the howling?It seems that the next morning Louise is missing!
Every year, my daughter’s elementary school assigns a book for all students to read together with their families.
This year, we were assigned Bunnicula.
The second book-Howliday Inn- was an uncomfortable listen.
Male animal characters discuss “women problems,” not in terms of particular women, but referring to women in general.
The tone in some passages was very “women...am I right?” Following generalizations about women, a character nonchalantly talks about murdering his wife, basically because she’s a nuisance.
Aside from this particular sensitivity i have about not want to expose a young child to casual misogyny, the book was boring, and the best character, Bunnicula, did not appear.
It's made for the child audience yet I could see teens and young adults who enjoy animals to be swept up into the world of Bunnicula and the wild adventures of Chester and Harold.
The characters, both human and animal are sweet and heartwarming, the relationships of many of the characters to each other is really enjoyable to read about.I was surprised that there was hardly a Bunnicula appearance in this book considering it was only the 2nd book in the series.
here is that list:School for Good and EvilBest Christmas Pageant EverTales of a Fourth grade NothingBunniculaRamona The pestBlack beautyPippi LongstockingHarriet the SpySo, where does Howliday Inn fit into this list?
I would put it right underneath Bunnicula and above Ramona the pest.
this was nowhere near as good as Bunnicula, but it still had the charm.
The main reason this falls beneath Bunnicula is because it doesn't have the "is-it-a-supernatural-or-not?" that the first book has.
It is a straight up murder mystery, which feels weird, considering it is a children's book.
