https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/497366.The_Norse_Myths
What We Learned from "Thor"  (skip if you remember the movie)- The universe consists of nine realms.- The gods live in Asgard, humans live in Midgard, and the Ice Giants live in Jotunheim. - The nine realms are connected by the roots/branches of a tree called Yggdrasill.- Odin is the Allfather, or most powerful.- Thor is Odin's son and the god of thunder.- Sif is one of the warriors from the movie.- Loki is... well, you know who he is. The most cunning villain of all time.This is what Marvel sh
- The nine realms are connected by the roots/branches of a tree called Yggdrasill.- Odin is the Allfather, or most powerful.- Thor is Odin's son and the god of thunder.- Sif is one of the warriors from the movie.- Loki is...
Thor's hammer existed because of Loki's trickery.Loki tricked two dwarves of Nidavellir into making three gifts for the gods.
I was interested in reading Norse myths because I wanted to see how much of "Thor" was true.
It turns out that there are a lot of differences, but the main themes exist in both the myths and the Marvel movie.
Unfortunately, this usually means wading through painfully academic translations, skipping back and forth between sterile prose and dry footnotes, salvaging what entertainment is left in the stories.Rather than simply translate-and-annotate, Crossley-Holland has compiled these stories from multiple sources and retold them in his own lively, but not distractingly modern, voice.
Each story also gets a discussion at the back of the book which breaks down which elements were taken from which sources, variants and similarities to other stories, cultural details, running themes, anything that was left out, etc.This author has done much, much more than haphazardly translate a bunch of stories.
I bought this at a tiny occult bookshop near the British Museum in June and have been stretching it out ever since. The dork in me really, really enjoys Norse myths. And I liked the notes at the end of each tale, where Crossley-Holland explained which parts came from Snorri Sturluson and which came from Saxo Grammaticus and hi I am single.
Embarrassing to admit this -- since I dated (for 4 years) a wonderful man who eventually went on to get a PhD focusing on Viking burials -- but...
I've never really been able to get excited about the grim dude-fest that is Norse Mythology.
Until this book.
Told by Kevin Crossley-Holland, the stories actually feel exciting now!
I read one every night, and when I'm done I'm even motivated to go to the notes section to read its background.
A great first book on Norse mythology.
Asgard is starting to feel like bloody IKEA!
Crossley-Holland turns the myths into a cultural event with an informative introduction and copious endnotes, which compose about a fourth of the book.The stories themselves, though, come across as short folk tales for children (no offense intended to old Snorri Sturulson and company). The one exception, the prophecy of Ragnarok, which packs an entire mythical apocalypse of universal darkness and destruction into four pages. It's worth reading, re-reading, and a little memorizing. Start with: Axe-age, sword-age - sundered are shields - Wind-age, wolf-age, ere the world crumbles...
Some of the character motivations are ones we're all familiar with, but the stories cover unexpected nad interesting ground.
I particularly like the stories that center on Loki, and began to see how a lot more of our current literary and poplular culture traditions might owe a nod to the Norse myths than you might think.
In one story, Loki turns himself into a fly to sneak into Freyja's bedchamber, and then turns himself into a flea and amuses himself by crawling over her breasts.
I wonder now if this later story doesn't owe something to Loki's predicaments when he shape shifts.
I love reading the Norse myths, and this one doesn't disappoint, with plenty of detailed stories. The very long introduction provides a welcome list of the pantheon, along with a map of the Norse 'world,' which makes it easier to keep track of these things. I revisit this book now and again for a good story; my favorites are probably the stories of Creation and Ragnarok (apocalypse).Read with a flagon of ale and a roaring fire (preferably seated a reindeer pelt) to truly get into the mood.
Very nice introduction to the major Norse gods & myths. Crossley-Holland combines serious scholarship with a strong prose style to make the myths accessible to a cross-section of readers, the curious and serious alike. I found the extensive "Notes" section just as enjoyable as the myths themselves.
I had always meant to read the Norse myths but had never got around to it until recently.
I'm going to miss reading about the Gods' various exploits and I can actually see why the old Norse worshipped them - far more exciting than the monotheistic religions.
Yet unlike the Greek myths, Norse myths are strangely and sadly overlooked here; they should be on the national curriculum.
All in all, I wholeheartedly recommend this version of the beautiful Norse myths; it will go straight onto my 'favourites' bookshelf.
Technically I didn't finish this as I decided to skip the notes, but I figure they are optional and as I actually read the introduction and all the myths, I'm counting this book as read.They call Loki* the trickster God but really they all could have had this title.
Yet Loki seems to be blamed the most, I think this is because he likes to trick other Gods and the others just save their tricks for mostly giants.
*Loki is my favourite God, yes this is thanks to Marvel and yes I fancy him.
This is the exception to that rule--Crossley-Holland makes the myths accessible with a beautiful style that invites the reader to walk with the characters (itself a skill, since these are gods).So, after reading this (for the second time), what strikes me is the innate sadness of the Norse view of the universe.
The Ragnarok story seems to indicate that all creation is cyclical--the universe was created; it will pass away; a new universe will come into being, and so on.
That means that everything in the present universe, including the gods themselves, will pass away.Except for Balder and Hod, who return from Niflheim as the first gods of the new universe.
As interesting and informative as this collection was, it also left me with an overwhelming feeling of sadness that so many of the myths (mentioned, but not included in this text for obvious reasons) exist only in a very fragmented form or have been lost altogether.
So many figures were only mentioned once, so many stories alluded to in other myths but never told.
He even includes summaries of alternate versions (where applicable) in his notes at the back of the book.
I enjoyed the notes, for the historical and cultural context they provided, just as much as the myths themselves.
A good compilation from a variety of sources. Sometimes the bits added in by Crossley-Holland annoyed me, as there was no basis for them in the myths, such as the fact that Loki's eyes kept changing colour... that was just weird. Generally the dialogue was OK, though, and Crossley-Holland does a good job of translating the humour and mood. When all's said and done, the stories are very entertaining so it would be difficult to ruin them. The introduction and the notes are excellent, lending a more scholarly air than you get with a lot of mythology compilations.
This is a really excellent collection. The myths are retold with humor and enthusiasm, and Crossley-Holland's notes are excellent. A lot of times it's hard to find collections of myths that are well-documented and scholarly (rather than simply being retellings that don't list the source material) but are still readable as complete stories rather than being fragmentary. This collection lands right on the money.
What can I say its the norse myths probably the most intersting of world mytholgy that ive read. This has become a bit of a hobby of mine adn I recommend this book to anyone. Unlike most mythology books the author has re-writen the myths in a more readable light. This book reads more like a novel than a history book but still covers all aspects of the myhs and great notes at the end. Valhalla when I die!
This is a very strong book of mythology. While it certainly doesn't cover every story it presents some of the most notable ones and is a good read. In addition to writing the stories in a way that makes them seem more like short stories Crossley-Holland also has some great discussion insights and notes on the different elements of the myths.
Awesome, awesome book, and certainly a must-read for fans of Tolkien or fans of fantasy literature in general. Kevin Crossley-Holland draws from several primary and secondary sources to deliver a complete and academic study of the Norse myths.
Norse mythology and Greek mythology share many differences and similarities.
A huge difference between Greek and Norse gods is that the gods in Norse mythology are a lot closer to mankind.
Another difference between Norse and Greek mythology is that Norse mythology has an ending which is the final battle where many major figures die.
These Norns (also known as destiny) predetermine the fate of every living thing including Norse gods.
In conclusion, Norse and Greek myths have many similarities and differences.
What I really liked about this book is that there are many things that you can relate to in Greek mythology like Odin who is very like Zeus.
I greatly preferred this to Neil Gaiman's Norse Mythology. Kevin Crossley-Holland's retellings of the myths were lively. He provided history, cultural context, and insight that was written in an engaging manner. You can tell he's passionate about this subject, his excitement for the topic shined through the writing. I'd love to sit in on one of his lectures. Onto Gods and Myths of Northern Europe by H. R Ellis Davidson next. A great companion read to either Neil Gaiman's Norse Mythology or The Norse Myths by Crossley-Holland.
Although Gaiman in his Norse Mythology writes of not daring to “go back to the tellers of Norse myth whose work I had loved, to people like. . . Crossley-Holland, and reread their stories”, he ended up producing something rather similar. If a student reads Gaiman in middle school, this would be a good follow-up for high school.
'They will sit down in the sunlight and begin to talk. Turn by turn, they will call up such memories, memories such as are known to them alone. They will talk over many things that happened in the past, and the evil of Jormungand and the wolf Fenrir. And then, amongst the waving grass, they will find golden chessboards, treasures owned once by the Aesir, and gaze at them in wonder.'
Great storytelling
If, in fact, he had done WITHOUT writing these often incorrect missives, and his self-congratulatory introduction, he could EASILY have included twice the number of myths without increasing the page count by so much as ONE PAGE.Though Aegir was a central deity of the Norse pantheon, he remains the LEAST discussed character in Crossley-Holland's version of events.
EVERYTHING I LOVE ABOUT NORSE MYTHS CONSUMMATE!!!!!
Kevin Crossley-Holland takes different sources with conflicting versions of Norse myths and creates a medley of 32 stories that are interesting and confusing.
If you love Norse myths and want a literary and cultural perspective, then I highly recommend it.The introduction begins by explaining the Viking culture and three-tiered strata.
Crossley-Holland explains that Myth 5 in his book explains this strata and that the eddaic poem, "Rigsthula," is the source of information.
I found that when I was confused as to who was whom, the author explained the contradictions as well as put the myth in an understandable context.
When I first recieved this book I thought it would be like one similarly titled that I'd read before but I was greatly suprised to learn I was wrong.
Which of course does contain some of the classics but there were many out of the 35 that I haven't heard let alone read before.
Like so many of the folk tales and myths of a particular culture, the problem one encounters in wanting to read "the Norse myths" consists at least in part in figuring out just what tales to read, and in what order; so many of them interrelate that it can be a dizzying prospect to even know where to start.
Exhaustively researched, this collection retells a series of thirty-two Norse myths - some rightly famed, others deservingly obscure - in the order that, roughly, makes the most amount of sense.
The endnotes really let you pour into the content, with a serious amount of information for each myth.The myths are laid out in very easy to digest chunks, I promise there will be very little indigestion.
Which coincidentally if you are a fan of the comics or movies I found it fascinating to see the similarities between the myth and the current media dedicated to some of the characters.What this book gets right: Taking mythology and putting into an easy to read format with notes to backup the thought process behind the stories.What this book gets wrong: Ragnarok, this one could have used more content, I felt like once I read Ragnarok it's myth was cut short, I was wanting more.
The detailed explanations and analysis of each tale at the back of the book are a useful and interesting resource.There are two types of story in these myths - the wildly implausible adventures, including drinking bouts, seductions and battles of wits and muscle with the giants, and the stories of the gods themselves - wilful, capricious and achingly human.
His actions, his own fate, and that of the other gods as they wend their way in their daily lives towards the doom of Ragnarok, form a strange and intense parable of human nature.
A highly enjoyable retelling of the Norse myths.
While the author adds to existing textual sources (largely to make the myths readable and enjoyable once more), he is always clear about how/where he does this and has numerous references to the original texts for the curious reader.
Given how closely the author follows Snorri Sturlusson's Prose Edda, I am tempted to simply read that and see if this author's alterations are substantial.Some of the myths are fantastic (e.g. Binding of Loki, Thor goes to Utgard, Death of Balder, etc.).
I would have appreciated some discussion of the myths in a final section, as well.
