https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/330543.This_Sex_Which_Is_Not_One

I felt like I should read this, as it was a landmark piece of French feminism.
Unfortunately, it was awful in that essentialist, arch-Freudian way that too much French thought of the time was.
OK, so she pointed out that a lot of Freud's concepts were idiotic and misogynistic (as they were), but she still remained within that framework.
And then she pointed out that Marx neglected the role of domestic labor (which he did), but doesn't do much productive analysis with that fact.
Have you ever read a book that made you feel stupid? And I don't mean in the "wow, this is intellectually impressive!" way. I mean in the "you mean that I wasted my time getting two masters degrees when I could have just spouted-off incoherent, inconsistent, and self-contradictory nonsense and become a post-modern celebrity?!" way. Kudos to Irigaray for gaming the system.
This is an okay book on French post structuralist feminist thought. Some of Irigaray's points are valid, but some just absurd. I refuse to believe that because my labia are constantly in contact with my clitoris that I am then perpetually masturbating.
Fluid mechanics, Lacan as a-hole. women as commodity. Singular masculine subjectivity as crap. Long live hysteria. Read it.
Her willingness to take the misogyny of Freud, Lacan, and the rest of pscyhoanalysis to task is inspiring.
The main argument of many of her essays in this book is that Freud, Lacan, et al.
She succeeds because she uses their own words against them again and again and she is also very adept at parody ("Cosi Fan Tutti").
However, my favorite essay in This Sex Which is Not One was "Women on the Market" which is her take on marriage, capitalism, and the falsehood of "heterosexuality." She contends that heterosexuality should actually be seen as hom(m)osexuality: men use the bodies, notions, ideas, of women to connect with other men.
Irigaray's "ecriture feminine" would be more compelling if it didn't hinge on heavily policed and essentialized notions of womanhood.
Ground breaking by Luxe Irigaray , one of the founders of- so called - French feminism. She purposes a concept of female sexuality and expression which is outside the phallocentric construction where female sexuality is defined as lack. A difficult read and not 'enjoyable'. A Nevertheless it is an important feminist text which raises difficult issues.
I won't venture whether Irigaray is brilliant or bat-shit crazy, but I am well aware of the confluence of these two qualities among Freud's critics.
You have to be at least a bit crazy to take on the most influential mind of the 20th century and turn his language inside-out.
But can Irigaray free the female imaginary by spending so much energy tethering it as a language of opposition and rehabilitation?
At any rate, I wanted to get this "historical" theory in before reading Film and Female Consciousness: Irigaray, Cinema and Thinking Women to see how it holds up in contemporary post-structuralist discourse.
this book changed my life, back in college days. she's a neo-freudian feminist. go figure. the psychological difference between men and women lay between in their legs, but with a twist - she focuses on women's genitalia rather than men's.
Very obtuse, but if you push through you find that it really is the only method to convey the ideas in the text. Touching mixture of theory and prose.
Of course this book was probably not meant for my demographic, which means I've probably missed a lot of what the author was attempting to convey through my thick male skull.Thank God that my library is so awesome, but unfortunately they did not have this book.
I had to read this book quickly because it was only a one week loan.One of my favorite quotes from this book is that woman exists “for the enactment of man’s fantasies, for the fulfillment of his pleasures, not her own, unable to say what she wants, because she doesn’t know what it is.”
Don’t even attempt this one without a deep working knowledge of psychoanalytic theory and a masters/PhD in philosophy. You must be “this tall” to ride this ride. Even with the mentorship of an Irigaray scholar I felt like I was treading water the whole time. I’ll give it a go again in a year or so to see if anything new penetrates my noggin. You will not defeat me! *shakes fist in air*
This book is a little too complex for my taste. I hope I never have to read it again.

"The rejection, the exclusion of a female imaginary certainly puts woman in the position of experiencing herself only fragmentarily, in the little-structured margins of a dominant ideology, as a waste or an excess, what is left of a mirror invested by the masculine "subject" to reflect himself..." "For where pleasure is concerned, the master is not necessarily well served.
Thus to reverse the relation, especially in the economy of sexuality, does not seem a desirable objective.." I love this.
To reverse the order of things, even if it were possible, would lead history to repeat itself.
Core feminist text which really should be on the A A reading list for its insight into the sexual dynamic of the 0=2 formula, for all that Irigaray has apparently no regard for metaphysics whatsoever ( as an expression of the prevailing "phallic" philosophical discourse). The allusive/elusive quality of her experimental "language of the feminine" remains at any rate a useful imaginative marker of difference for this male reader.
I first read it in my junior year in college, among the first bunch of philosophical texts in English I've read - needless to say, it didn't make much sense. Now reading it again, it is surprisingly powerful, after I have an okay knowledge of Freud and a minimal knowledge of Lacan. Women on the market is such a powerful and daring essay.
fits with Freud. is it rebuttal? is it commentary? I don't care! But certainly joins his conversation, so to speak. Rather like Clarice Lispector in her expository style. Which is an interesting though not always compelling style, for me. Though has its stunning moments.
This will make your brain hurt, for sure. I am not one to be scared by dense language, but this one is so dense it's like a brick wall. If you haven't read Lacan (and a little Freud too), don't bother to try this.
Un libro que interpreta perfectamente el funcionamiento social y la forma en que se ve la explotación sexual de las mujeres, escrito por Luce Irigaray, una de las principales exponentes del feminismo. Aísla el discurso monótono y le pone una chispa de picante a los deseos femeninos.
I read this during my undergrad women's studies intro course and realized that other people really DID think the way I did. This work was one of the pivotal books in my critical thinking. You have to be prepared to think when you read it, but it's a fascinating read.
You totally have to love 1970s French feminist theory!
I cannot, will not force my experience of reading this text into words. Simply it has/does/will always touch I/you/we.
This is an interesting take on feminist theory and women living in a patriarchal world, a combination of textual theory and an air of spoken word poetics within her writing. It makes you think
Yes, yes. And yes.
This is a tentacular book, if ever there was one.
lovely...the feminine sex is active because it touches itself all the time. The male needs to be touched...fantastic
I will finish this before the end of the year, I will finish this before the end of the year, Iwillfinish...*read all but "Psychoanalytic Theory" and "Questions"...
* Understanding Oppression: Gay Rights
