https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1105465.The_Fire_Engine_That_Disappeared
I think it is also important to note that my star rating here is contrasted with the other books I've read in the series.
I care about the characters, which is, I think, what Maj Sjöwall and Per Wahloo most wanted us to care about.Martin Beck -- The man from which the series gets its name is not much more than a bit player in this tale, but he's still the place to start.
Yes. But I can't help loving him for it, and as cops go he's actually kind of okay.Fredrik Melander -- is just plain old Melander.
Not so much for the mystery at the heart of this one but the police procedural nature of it all, the growing insight in to the lives of the many protagonists and the statement on Swedish society at the time.A man kills himself, Martin Beck's name is found written in his apartment, later that same night a house inhabited by a suspect in a car theft ring explodes in a ball of flames.
The evolution of this character throughout the series is a major statement on the direction of Swedish society and as such he deserves to be the most famous of the group of individuals investigating murder in Stockholm.
Another one of the top books of the series (yes, it is crowded at that particular top!). This one continues to develop the characters and the mystery is a great one. Just the right amount of the happenings are due to random chance to give that unique feeling of reality.
Another smashing book in the Martin Beck series. In this one a crook is found dead after a house fire. A tragic accident? Of course not - there are nefarious goings on.A locked room mystery with several twists. As ever the charm is in the simple, Spartan prose, with not a word wasted. Beck is a peripheral figure in this one, as the ensemble takes up the case with gusto.We have the usual light touch, gentle humour and some right on social commentary. Worth a read.
Arriving at the 5th installment out of the 10-book series to feature Martin Beck, the action begins on a freezing night police as Detective Gunvald Larsson goes to check on Officer Zachrisson, who is maintaining a surveillance on an apartment house.
This time Martin Beck isn't exactly in the forefront, but the mystery is challenging, and watching the solution unravel is intriguing.The Fire Engine that Disappeared is yet another sterling work in this series.
It has a kind of beautiful, banal poetry to it, and it’s the perfect beginning for ‘The Fire Engine That Disappeared’ – a book where violent crime and complicated mystery are forever subsumed by the commonplace as the investigating officers try to solve a baffling crime whilst getting on with their lives.
Just look at the events of the first three chapters:Chapter One: man’s body is found in apartment.Chapter Two: Martin Beck visits his aged mother.Chapter Three: a house explodes killing three and imperilling nearly a dozen others.The fact that in-between those incidents which are the butter and bread of any crime novel, we have that quiet little visit sets the tone for the book as much as the opening line does.
This is where the title of this fifth novel comes from and why a little kid losing his brand new red toy of a fire engine can hold the key to the unravelling of a misterious fire in Stockholm.Martin Beck does almost nothing for the whole novel, he just sits in a corner with an arm resting on a file cabinet and listens to the brainstorming sessions of his team.
Bettie's Books
He leaves behind a cryptic note with just two words: "Martin Beck."Later, on the night of that same day another apartment building in Stockholm explodes in flames while the police are watching the building, because of a low-level criminal who lives there.
He, like Kollberg, is lacking in interpersonal skills, but even though he can be boorish and tactless, he is actually a competent detective.Larsson's only real friend on the squad is Einar Ronn, a calm and peaceful individual, who is also a hard-working and efficient detective.
From BBC radio 4 - Saturday Drama:The apartment of a suspect being staked out by Gunvald Larsson explodes, killing three people. Arson and murder isn't at first suspected - much to Larsson's fury - but when it becomes clear that the fire was started on purpose, the case hinges on the needle-in-a-haystack chance of finding a man who fits an impossibly vague description who was somewhere in the area around the time of the fire.
This case giving me some anticipation at first-- intro with suicide and building on fire.
Not much of Martin Beck but the team as a whole was perfectly portrayed here.
I love how the case indirectly related to Rönn's lil boy missing fire engine toy.
Fantastic and I love Månsson-- he was so mysterious but very trustworthy.This was okay.
Crime was not that complicated or me too eager want to know where the heck is the culprit, I like how 'em all really into the case although it turned out to be quite messy with few dead suspects and such.
Ungefär en gång om året blir jag sugen på stekt fläsk och rårakor. Gärna med lingonsylt. Det är alltid gott, på det där trygga välkända sättet, trots att jag inte har något minne av att det serverades under uppväxten.
A suicide who just barely cheated his murderer of the chance to take his life--for lodged in his bed had been the source of the blaze...a tiny chemical explosive.It has been assumed that Malms was a small-time operator in the world of drugs and car theft and the hunt is on to find his contact, Olofsson.
The trail will lead to Malmö, Denmark, and even to contacts in Interpol before Beck and his team finally get to the bottom of who planted the bomb in Malms' bed.Oh...and the title?
And when Rönn mentions it to Beck and Larsson, they are reminded of another fire engine that disappeared on the night of the fire.
I'm always curious as to how other readers' impressions of a book align with or differ from my own. When I reached the end of  The Fire Engine that Disappeared  by Maj Sjöwall and Per Wahlöö, I did a quick scan of review sites and found that other readers had expressed disappointment in it, opining that it didn't measure up to the rest of the Martin Beck series, particularly the book that immediately preceded it,  The Laughing Policeman . Well, I must confess that I haven't yet acquired a copy o
by Maj Sjöwall and Per Wahlöö, I did a quick scan of review sites and found that other readers had expressed disappointment in it, opining that it didn't measure up to the rest of the Martin Beck series, particularly the book that immediately preceded it, 
Indeed, my impression of the series, as expressed in yesterday's post, is that it gets better and better with each book.I was thoroughly puzzled by the mystery at the heart of The Fire Engine that Disappeared—the links between a disparate group of small-time crooks and their connection to the big, shocking, and seemingly professional crime that occurs at the start of the novel—and enjoyed unraveling it alongside Martin Beck and his team.
Most contemporary novelists acknowledge the legacy they owe to Sjowall & Wahloo.A police proceedural was never demonstrated better than in this inconsequential mystery around whether a fire was arson or murder.Setting aside the date of the original writing this is a gripping tale of hard police work, excellent co-operation between forces of law enforcement within Sweden, Stockholm & Malmo as well as into Denmark.It is often termed the Martin Beck series but this account clearly shows the breadth of investigations and the piecing together of everyone's contribution.
The characters are believable, and read true both at work and in their domestic situations.
The book is full of a sort of understated and sometimes grim humour which makes it pretty enjoyable to read.
The characters feel very real and a lot is made of their daily routine, their home life, what they like to eat and drink, their frustrations with police work...
There's a few crappy moments here and there but nothing too awful.Also it's really interesting reading a book where the Greek junta is talked about as present but without it being a plot point.
A lot of late 60s politics appears as background in these books and it interests me
It is not difficult to say what I like so much about this series.
The personalities are drawn with such sensitivity and skill that they are as alive with human motivation as anyone we might encounter.
More alive, in fact, because they are so exquisitely observed by this poet and journalist author team.
The brevity of the sentences and the complexity of the action make for very powerful fiction.
What I love most about this particular book, but I could have said (and perhaps I did say) the same about 
Perhaps that is why it is so extravagantly restful and reassuring to read this series.
And again, time machine to Stockholm in 1968. Repeating myself, but I simply love these books, they are well written and The Real Thing. Our group of cops solves another case, sure enough. And their personal stories continue. Again, I find myself amused at the political views fashionable among the young/intellectuals - flirting with the Soviets, finding fault with the Americans. Some things don't seem to change. ;)
I’m certainly glad I began this series. Not only with Stieg Larsson, but now with Martin Beck, I am getting a look at, what is to me, a new society. This series is getting better now with each book. The detectives aren’t all depressed, now, and there are natural gents of humor. The plot takes its time to gracefully and unpredictably yet methodically unfold. The characterization grows from book to book as is possible in series books. Highly recommended.
Loved it! Can't wait to read the rest of the series!
Excellent. This is the fifth book in the Martin Beck series, which still continues to satisfy the reader without resorting to cliche or formula. I am so glad I discovered this series. A darn good read!
Sendo o caso arquivado como resolvido, pois na Suécia o suicídio não é crime, Beck vê-se envolvido numa nova investigação.É uma simples coincidência o facto de uma casa explodir mesmo debaixo do nariz do seu chefe que tanto desdenha: Gunvald Larsson.
Com a sua mulher e filho de 14 anos raramente troca uma palavra.Os dois melhores amigos juntos atingim o equibrio, com as suas duas vidas tão opostas, mas ao mesmo tempo tão intimamente unidas."A lie doesn't get any nearer the truth by half-repeating it."A investigação desenrola-se a seu tempo e a equipa de Martin Beck une esforços com as forças policiais de Mälmo que nos trazem de volta Per Mänsson, que fez uma aparência breve mas significativa no livro anterior.
This was my least favorite in the Martin Beck series so far. This storyline was more disjointed than usual. The mystery was all over the place and the ending did not match my expectations for this series. As a mystery/police procedural this story fell through for me. However, this story did develop a lot of the characters in the story. And, even though the series revolves around Martin Beck, he was more a peripheral character in this one. This story revolved around Gunvald Larsson, a character that I am learning to like a lot.
Nine minutes past eleven.
Eight minutes left.He yawned and raised his arms to start beating them round him.At that precise moment the house exploded.The horror of the burning house, with the desperate residents throwing themselves – or throwing children – from windows to escape the flames is visceral.
From this explosive opening, the novel proceeds to develop slowly and carefully the multiple layers of plot that connect some fairly pathetic underworld characters with a more brutal and far-reaching conspiracy.
Sjöwall and Wahlöö continue to patiently develop the characters and their relationships.
The title is a red herring and it is really about finding out how/why a house explosion happened, resulting in the deaths of some minor criminals.
Thereafter there is a long police-procedural, which gathers pace until it reaches a dramatic ending.
There is some stupendously sexist writing earlier on - on several occasions we learn very intimate and unnecessary information about female characters' bodies, and then at least two women being interviewed by detectives offer to sleep with the policeman without any preamble almost (all very 70s free-love era but, still, it grates).
Although a solid police procedural, does not have the same impact as the previous books in the Martin Beck series. More from the point of view of Detective Gunvald Larsson, who is not as well liked by the other series regulars but who seems more personable. The POV shifts between the characters and there is no interaction with the perpetrators which makes it less engaging. There is however a very touching moment between Beck and his daughter, which to me is the highlight of the book. The swift action of the ending is also memorable.
A man commits suicide by gunshot on the same evening as a suspect under police surveillance dies when the apartment building in which he lives explodes in flames. Detective Gunvald Larsson saves several people from the burning building, but the suspect was already dead. As in the prior book, the Stockholm police seem baffled, and cannot locate a critical person of interest until two small boys find him in Malmo. A local policemen there goes to Denmark, and interrogates a young woman, who helps them figure out the puzzle.
Possibly my least favourite so far in the Martin Beck series, but it still had its moments. As usual, the action moves along with little fanfare & the slow, painstaking efforts to come up with a clue are presented in detail. Unusually, Martin Beck played a peripheral part in this novel, but that allowed us to spend more time with the other characters.
this one was almost cubist. very strange. no forward motion, no true main character... basically all the different cops separately ruminate about the same crime (and a missing toy) and then eventually it all somehow comes together... almost had the air of a horror novel... very moody, dark fantasy about a mysterious house... this series is continually surprising...
This, in my opinion, has the best and most intricately constructed plot of the series (so far) - and has the richest characterization and wit. A winner.
