https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/456103.The_Face_of_War
The Face of War by Martha Gellhorn (1908-1998), author, journalist and famed war correspondent, collects in one volume reports the author had previously written for magazines.
It puts a human face on war.
The author wants us to perceive war as it truly is, to feel it in our guts, so united, we will raise our voices against it.
to read The Face of War!
You will not regret having read it, even if you have already read a zillion books on the Second World War, even if you are already a pacifist and detest war.
This curt bit of advice, from the Russian writer (and wife of the poet, Osip Mandelstam) Nadezdha Mandelstam, is one that Martha Gellhorn quotes at the conclusion of the chapter titled “Rule by Terror” in the section titled Wars in Central America (p.
Things haven’t changed much since then — as Ms. Gellhorn predicted they wouldn’t in her coverage of conflicts from the Spanish Civil War up to and through the Reagan’s interventions in both El Salvador and Nicaragua.Before I ran across Ms. Mandelstam’s suggestion, I originally thought of titling my review “Read this book at your own risk!” — or “Read this book and weep.”Why?
begins only with the Spanish Civil War!Martha Gellhorn is no knee-jerk liberal.
This is an astonishingly brave book, as it would need be, covering conflicts from the Spanish Civil War through the nuclear arms race in the 1980s.
But we need not follow in silence; we still have the right and duty, as private citizens, to keep our own records straight." She finds the human face in war, as her title asserts, chronicling the Nazi POW's tears as faithfully as the skeletal survivors in Dachau, which she was among the first to report.
Who feels secure?" As upsetting and moving as this book is, I felt braced by the courage and resolution of not only Gellhorn, but the victims of war on whom she reports.
Gellhorn's eye-opening perspective on war, from Spain to Finland to Java to Vietnam, is unlike any I've ever experienced before.
A bold statement coming from someone who has extensively studied World War II, but I stand by it.Not only was Gellhorn one of the first female war correspondents in history, she was a phenomenal writer as well.
Regardless of your interest or disdain for war history, The Face of War is worth a slow read.
This is the one book that should have been a required reading in history class.
Picked up this book to compare Gellhorn's reporting with Hemingway and to see how their war coverage differed. Sorry, Poppa, Gellhorn kicks your ass. While Hemingway's boring me with chauffeurs of Madrid, Gellhorn is talking to the women and children and old men of Spain, China, Vietnam, the ones suffering without political ambition, no bravado, just ordinary people hoping to return to ordinary lives while surrounded by the horror of war.
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[But there was much excitement in the headquarters shack; a tall towheaded boy with a shining face was passing a box of cigars around and getting heavily beaten on the back.
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[As citizens, I think we all have an exhausting duty to know what our governments are up to, and it is cowardice or laziness to ask: what can I do about it anyway?
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[In 1945, the U.S. had produced three nuclear weapons, the A-bombs; one tested, two used.
Non avevo mai letto niente della Gellhorn, la conoscevo solo come "una delle mogli di Hemingway", anche se avevo visto il film del 2012 sulla loro storia non posso dire di aver mai conosciuto la Gellhorn da un punto di vista letterario.Il libro per certi versi mi è piaciuto e per altri no.
Anzi, direi che l'argomento stesso non è e non sarà mai il mio preferito (e non venitemi a dire che chi studia storia studia solo guerre!), tuttavia sono molto contenta di aver incrociato la Gellhorn sulla mia strada.
Yesterday outside the Klaus Fortress of Computing, who should I run into but my old roommate and co-conspirator Vegan John (For those who know him, he and Pam are now married and living on the westside; he's a year or so from his condensed matter physics PhD, while she's finishing up hers in optial physics this semester)?
Over mutual Newports, we talked Bose-Einstein condensates and quantum computing and a great deal about the Spanish Civil War. It turned out VJ also knew a good bit about the republicanos and nacionales, but from a different perspective than I'd picked up from Beevor, Hemingway and Homage to Catalonia.
He recommended this strongly, and who am I to disagree with the most Vegan of Johns?
And she adopts this tone that she was the only American who had problems with the Vietnam War (which is wrong) and that no American soldiers were in an danger (which is wrong) and makes a great point of not knowing or caring who Robert McNamara was.
Her reports flirted around the bigger picture of all the millions of, billions of dollars that are spent on refugees without making the refugee lives any better, so where does the money go?
*That* is a compelling thread for late twentieth century wars, but because she doesn't see beyond the details, she misses it.
This was phenomenal for a number of reasons, but mostly because of how fascinating it was to see a female war reporter evolve while witnessing fifty years of horror. I stumbled onto Gellhorn because she was Hemingway's third wife, but her writing and intellect help her stand alone. I'd thoroughly recommend this to anyone remotely interested in an insider's perspective of the changing (ed) face of why we go to war.
"Our government belongs to us. We are not little mice anymore." - The Face of War is a masterpiece and Martha Gellhorn is a real live SUPERHERO. She taught me that as a writer I should always use my skill for good. And that sometimes the most important writing is born out of fear and a hysteric need to be of use when the world is falling apart. Take your time reading this. Read sentences again. Reread the chapters if it feels right.
Read The Face of War -- if for nothing more than the joy of savoring beautiful prose.
This is not to say that the stories are beautiful.
The best sections, to me, are those from Spain and WW II, though one wonders how she would today view Israel’s Six-day War now that the Israelis have practically recreated the Warsaw Ghetto in Gaza.Gellhorn comes across as a realist and is deeply cynical about the integrity of leaders: “Politics really must be a rotten profession considering what awful moral cowards most politicians become as soon as they get a job.” (p.
What a book.
How incredibly brave this woman was, and at a time when women just weren't this sort of thing...
a war correspondent...during the Spanish CIvil War, WW2 and Vietnam.
Her writing is so simple and precise and she hits the nail on the head over and over.
THIS is what war is like, THIS is what is really going on and THIS is why it's so incomprehensibly stupid.
And every time you start thinking that going to war with anyone is a good idea, get this out and read it again.
She writes about the Middle East as though Palestinians never existed, no real humans ever lived in the area that became Israel, and no legitimate human being was in the least bit harmed by expulsion and exile from land their family had occupied for countless generations.
The pity is that an otherwise brilliant, insightful, and genuinely indispensable book - as well as a life's work - is fatally marred by her impassioned and totally biased coverage of what is now one of the most important, and still least understood, war zones in the world.
She is all of these, and one of the most eloquent witnesses of the 20th century.”Martha GellhornShe came out of relative privilege to spend a life driven by a fierce anger at the troubles of “ordinary people trapped in conflicts created by the rich and powerful.” She was a “non-ideological radical” as Clancy Sigal described her.
Actually there were more: at the age of 81 she covered the 1989 United States invasion of Panama, and a few years later made her last reporting trip to Brazil to witness the lives of street people.
An anthology of war essays that span this fine journalist’s long career from the Spanish Civil War, World War II, the Cold War, Vietnam, El Salvador and Nicaragua.
Not a pacifist but someone who is strongly and bluntly antiwar, even when she supports the cause, as she did in the Spanish Civil War and World War II, which she thought we waited too long to get involved in.
She also believes that aspects of modern war with its long-distance, indiscriminant bombing is an unnecessary evil, whether the target is Guernica, London, Dresden, Tokyo, Hiroshima, the Vietnamese countryside, or rebel strongholds in peasant lands.
Martha Gellman believed as a young writer that journalism was a guiding light and if the people were told the truth , they would do the right thing.
In the end she concludes that governments should get to know the people in the countries and it is the governments andnot the people who fight for the governments nor the civilians harmed by the conflicts who cause the most damage.
She was there at the fronts of the conflicts she covered and interviewed the people who were effected-and I believe she truthfully wrote what she saw without predjudice.
This is my first book review, both in goodreads and just simply my first.This book, while being 337 pages long in my edition, has quite a lot of words in it for its size.
I'm not sure if it is just me but I thought the length would be a lot more manageable for its size; I was wrong.I read this in two days because it was due back at the library in three.
However, the conclusion is about 10 pages and I decided that I would finish it by reading aloud, maybe get some more merit out of the book that did not leave the impact on me like it should have.
Kriegsreportagen, die zum Teil nicht in der Presse landeten, weil sie zu kritisch waren und die sich vor allem um den Zustand und die Belange der Zivilbevölkerung in Kriegen seit dem Spanischen Bürgerkrieg auf so ziemlich allen Kriegsschauplätzen der Welt abspielten, sind von Martha Gellhorn so klar geschrieben, so dass ich noch nicht mal Zeit zum Verdauen hatte.
Ich bin ein sehr emotionaler Mensch und kann gelegentlich auch sehr schnell weinen, aber hier verschlug mir die geschriebene Darstellung der Härte des Krieges in allen Facetten den Atem und ich hatte keine Zeit zum Weinen.
She came to detest war because what she ultimately realized was that war is a game of chess for the political leaders of a country--any country, even ours.
Those leaders never suffer--only the people who are pushed from one war-torn area to another know what it means to starve and have no home.She especially hated the Vietnam War and realized America was wrong to even be involved.
Her stories about the children burned by napalm tear at the heart.
By the end of this compilation of stories she filed for Collier's Magazine, we see a woman who has truly brought us the face of war.
Martha Gellhorn's collection of war reportage is expanded in this edition to include the Six Day War and the US involvement in Central America.
Gellhorn's strong narrative style provides a framework for her stories of war, from the Spanish Civil War to what was then present (1987).
Her pieces focus on people are affected by war, usually through the individuals she meets as well as her own experiences in war zones.
The work included here represents the major wars of the 20th century, and provides a unique eyewitness account of journalism in war zones.
You maybe tired of reading and hearing of war but that is no excuse to miss out on Martha Gellhorn's insightful reporting on the wars of our century.
She is against the horror of war but that said she is for the people on the ground.
She sees the war as a war of lies.
First the propaganda we were told that started us in war, then the lies from the communist the fed into our media releases and the hysteria of the late 1960's.
Highly readable book of her war coorespondence, worth reading in pieces, and I will keep re-reading.
Gellhorn's writing is incredible, and what makes this collection of her articles significant is her ability to take the reader to the time and place that she is covering.
While it could get slow at times (due to the lack of a central plotline), it always brought my attention back to the people whose stories were told and the message Gellhorn was sending.
And the views on nuclear weapons and the harsh realities of modern warfare were especially credible, coming from a journalist that was present for all major wars, beginning with the Spanish civil war.
In a collection of remarkable writings by an amazing woman.
The Face of War captures both the voice of mid-20th century American writing and the essence of what purposes it served.
Gellhorn takes us from the predecessor of WWII.
The Spanish Civil War. To American actions in south America in the nineteen eighties.
Never bothering with the semantics of political ambiguity Gellhorn delivers with out hesitance the powerful effect of war upon those innocent.
Caught in the crossfire of political and ideological differences.
No matter who is accountable Gellhorn speaks out with unabashed truth.
Painting the intimate portrait that is the real face of war.
For anyone who wants an excellent read, because perhaps you have a taste for understanding history, or the nature of war, or international politics, or human rights, this should be on your list. If you don't know a lot about history except what you learned in high school, this is a quick way to balance what you thought you knew.I found it riveting, but then I'm biased. I have experienced war in Vietnam as a Navy medic, and I became for some time disappointed in humanity, and very curious about the rest of the world.
Gellhorn is a gifted writer with a distinct perspective, and a flare for evocative language. This collection acts as a survey of her war reporting, and provides powerful accounts of America's military experiences (and some others) from the early 1930s through the mid 1980s. She's at her best when she's focused on Europe, or questioning the narrative that people want her to follow, and a small number of the essays do not fall into that category, to their detriment, but overall the collection is so good, that I suspect I will consult it many more times.
One of the few female war correspondents, Gellhorn's stories tell you about the people and how war affects them personally. Her writing is in an easy, flowing style; more about telling the story than teaching any overt lessons. Her essays are fearless in both their honesty and courage.The exception to her objective reporting of the real conditions are the essays on The Six Day War. Gellhorn's pro-Israelis sentiments are clearly evident in her writing, which is nothing more that blatant Zionist propaganda.
The early writing must be some of the best war reporting of all time.
The pieces on Brit fighter pilots, the liberated concentration camps, the ghettoes, and later on Vietnam are perfect, full of the some of the most incredible and articulate prose I've ever read.
Her later glowing reports on Israel, and brutal dismissal of the other side are troubling, and there are times when she seems to rely on prejudice rather than the irrepressible curiosity of the Spain and WWII work, but maybe that happens to everyone.
Still surely one of the great books of war reportage of all time.
Look, this is an immensely important work to read. I didn't love reading it, but I don't consider a moment wasted, even though half I skimmed through.We're desensitized to war. This work isn't much of a wake up call to anything but that. I wasn't awakened to the terrors or war. I was awaken by the fact that this SHOULD terrorize us, and it doesn't.Dashau was supposed to be the end of war, and we still have it.This is a great document to have around if you're ever slipping in your humanity.
A must read for anyone interested in the journalism of War, carried by Marie Colvin and with her in Syria this past February when she was killed under fire covering the war there. ( http://www.vanityfair.com/politics/20... ) Gellhorn's first war reporting was in Spain of the 1930 and she continued well into her 80's,taking her own life in her own way at age 90 in 1998. Read along with Mooreheads biography "Gellhorn: A Twentieth Century Life." Brilliant.
