https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/160637.Paddington_at_Large
These stories are timeless.I loved reading about Paddington's antic's where he always seems to do something right even if he does get in a pickle!
If you're a fan of Winnie the Pooh, you have to give Paddington a try. He's delightful, as are the Browns, and this book is a treat for the whole family. Highly recommend!My Rating: 5 stars
Lovely Paddington is in trouble as usual!
These books are just like, Curious George, but actually good. I listened to this one and it was beautifully entertaining.
Endlessly charming and filled with delightful antics.. Recommended to any Mommy of a child from 5 to 13 ...13 for the more whimsical children. And also recommended for adults who love reading classic children's literature.
Mr Brown (Paddington to you and me)has more fantastic everyday adventures with a spot of gardening and an impromptu trip on a lawnmower.
Then the Browns get a new televisoin set, and Paddington catches an intruder in the house.
The next adventure involves a little experiment in making toffee, in which a trip to the hospital follows.
Its getting near to christmas so its time for some shopping - Paddington takes a trip to the bargain basement.
Finally its pantomime time and Paddington is enlisted to create the sound effects.
Another charming tale of A bear from Peru.
Paddington at Large? As in Paddington on the lamb? What crime could that cute little Snuggles-doppelganger have possibly committed?
Whether its making toffee or appearing on a game show, Paddington is so endearing in all of his adventures.
The old favorites make their appearances (Mrs. Bird, Mr. Gruber, even mean old Mr. Curry) and Paddington makes plenty of new friends along the way as well.
Silly, fun, and entertaining, this book full of new adventures is such to delight Paddington fans.
It doesn't take away from the story, but it may be useful for parents to know about an adorable talking bear depicted smoking beforehand.
Overall, a wonderful story about a friendly bear making his mark on the world in pure Paddington fashion.
Paddington means an awful lot to me and this set of stories is no different. As well as being incredibly charming, set in a time when things seemed gentler definitely, it's Paddington's eternal optimism that always shines through in the books. He's as naive as a child but as sophisticated as an adult Michael Bond once wrote and I think it's not only good for him but a great lesson for all of us wishing to live a little simpler.
This book is wonderful for both children and adults!It will make you laugh and cry, smile and frown.I think this book is awesome and it a joy to the spirit. I highly recommend the other books in the series. Please read.....them all.
This was such a fun book. I was chuckling at Paddington doing the sound effects for the Christmas pantomime. And then when he ran onstage, announcing: "I found your secret plans! You left them under my coconuts," I was laughing out loud. These books are wonderful.
It’s probably me, but I didn’t enjoy this Paddington as much as previous ones, maybe because by now the stories are farther predictable. So maybe I should take a break for a few years before reading the next!
There’s not much to say here. Paddington’s stories are timeless and always worth a read. Funny, heartwarming, sweet, that’s just Paddington!
Shuya and I got through this one slowly because of a lot of stuff going on in life, but we really enjoyed this instalment (as always).
Silly lovely old Paddington is in trouble as usual :)
Love!
Fun children audiobook
209 - 2018
My mission through the audiobooks of all the Paddington books are going so well!
How did I not read about Paddington as a child? He gets out of Jams so well. Must be the Marmalade.
Another sweet and funny Paddington book.
Then he catches an intruder in the house, which turns out to be the television install person that was meant as surprise from Mr. Brown to set up their first color television.
But the surprise doesn’t end there.
Next, he tries his hand at cooking a special recipe, only to end up in a sticky situation.
He goes on his next adventure in a bargain mall, searching for the perfect gifts for the Browns.
Paddington has a innocent, mischievous, kind of charm that grows on you as he goes from “adventure” to “adventure”.
Always turning his oopsies into good fortunes by the end of the tale.
Wer einem kleinen Bären aus Peru Unterschlupf gewährt, darf sich nicht wundern, wenn das Leben plötzlich aufregend wird.
Familie Browns Geduld wird auf manch harte Probe gestellt, wenn Paddington mal wieder Unheil stiftet.
Aber Gott sei Dank geht es immer gut aus.Ich liebe die Bücher um den Bären Paddington.
Gerade wenn mein Tag mal nicht so gut war, heitern mich die Geschichten um den wohlerzogenen jungen Bären immer wieder auf.
Dafür gibt es jetzt im Heim für zur Ruhe gesetzte Bären in Peru öfter Marmelade.Zurzeit lese ich an „Paddington marches on“ und obwohl alle Bücher dem selben Muster folgen, bringen sie Sonnenschein in diese triste Winterzeit
We have this in an omnibus with several other Paddington books: A Bear Called Paddington - An Omnibus Including: A Bear Called Paddington, More About Paddington, Paddington Helps Out, Paddington at Large, Paddington Marches On
Мечето Падингтън е един от най-емблематичните герои на британската детска литература! Рунтавият любител на сандвичите с мармалад, създаден от писателя Майкъл Бонд, днес е един от символите на Великобритания, наред с Биг Бен, кралските гвардейци и червените автобуси. По популярност му съперничи единствено Мечо Пух! Макар и вече на близо 60 години, Падингтън винаги запазва присъщата си детска невинност и вродено любопитство. Прочетете интервюто на "Книжни Криле": https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
We cannot get enough Paddington at our house.
In this one, Paddington gets a lawnmower stuck in Mr. Curry's tree, which then falls out and causes all sorts of chaos.
He also heads to an outdoor symphony and ends up becoming the closing act, calls the police when he hears noises on the roof which turn out to be someone installing an antenna (he also causes trouble with the new TV Set), ends up on a TV quiz show, attempts to make toffee with disastrous results, goes shopping for Christmas presents, and ends up in a Christmas mystery play and sets an actors beard on fire.As we say at our house, "Only Paddington could do all that." :)
It's hard to say that the Paddington books are getting lazy by this point, but they certainly are becoming a bit rote.
Free of any overarching theme, Paddington wanders like a preschool Monsieur Hulot from one situation to another, with only very loose links.
The Browns seem to have been reduced to even more of a Greek chorus than usual in this one, standing aside or watching from afar as Paddington is rushed to hospital, lost in a department store (again), or - in the best chapter - playing as a contestant on a television game show.
I really enjoyed this series (that which I read anyway). Though the writing is formulaic in nature and doesn't really change much, Paddington never disappoints. He is always getting into something in his ignorant, innocent fashion. These books aren't very deep or thought-provoking, but they make a good read for younger readers and those who enjoy plays on words. Very similar to series such as Miss Pickerel, Marty the Martian, Amelia Bedelia, etc.
The bear next doorYet another collection of Paddington's adventures: the clumsy, talking, marmalade-eating bear with a well-behaved but direct approach to life will wreak havoc in the neighbourhood! Children and grown-ups will enjoy the simple, but in their own way profound stories where he’ll endlessly get in trouble, but will always try his best to make things right for everyone. The series never gets old!
