https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29850537-tail-gunner
It amazes me how these young men could go out so many times knowing that there was a very good chance that they would never return.
It left me wanting to know more about Rivaz - especially whether he survived (as this was his only book.) Apparently he did survive, but only until October 1945 which is incredibly sad.In the book I learned that these men were very particular about who they flew with and had strong loyalties.
I understand the story was written during the war years and widely published.
The story would also interest their American cousins given the hundreds of turret gunners the US would send into the fray.
It’s possible the author, R.C. Rivaz had passed and the information wasn’t available.
People craved for any information that would boost morale at a time when the outcome of the war was still in question.The accounts of flying through flak were very impressive and tense.
So, what does a tail gunner do for eight to ten hours when there is no flak or threatening fighters in the area?
Mr. Rivaz detailed descriptions are excellent and vivid.
Tail Gunner is the memoir of a member of the Royal Air Force during World War II.
My interest in military history is recent; I studied and taught history for a long time, but for most of those years, I preferred to study the causes of war, and so my primary interest was more political and theory-based.
Maybe this is why it never occurred to me that the pilot is always the boss inside a military plane regardless of the ranks of various officers.
This novella-length memoir is recommended to those with an interest in World War II, particularly its aeronautic aspects, and also to academics and researchers, given that this is a primary document.
He vivantly recounts the excitement and fear of night time bombing raids over Germany.
One of more exciting parts of the story is that of a crash landing at sea as their badly damaged plane returns from a raid.
The other most vivid episode was a daytime raid against a German battleship in LaRohelle harbor.
If you have an interest in the World War II air war then I highly recommend this brief but vivid story of an RAF tailgunner flying Whitleys with 102 squadron and Halifaxes with 35 squadron.
I wasn't expecting too much from this book and the first few paragraphs seemed to back that up.
This is a book very much "of it's time", with language and perspective achingly authentic.
Surprisingly too, a very honest book with no punches pulled.
Ok, the comments on bombing accuracy are somewhat optimistic, but as a reader I was too busy smelling the grease and cordite to focus on that.
The smells, sights and sounds when the engines rev up were brought back with vivid reality here.
Anyone looking for an bona fide slice of life in Bomber Command, this is it.
They also flew!This is a rather smashing (if too short) book relating the exploits of an unsung, yet essential member of a bomber crew.
It was obviously written during the war, leading to the usual references to landing at A____ etc.
One of the really good things about this, at this remove, is that, as the book develops, it slowly dawns who "Riv" is.
Also who Leonard is.
(He's really quite famous you know!).Overall, as a voracious reader of memoirs and first person accounts of history, this is a very enjoyable read covering bomber operations in the early war period.
The pilot used the journaling method to jot down memories of time spent in the service during World War II.
The action jumps from scene to scene.
There are numerous examples of missed transitional sentences and incomplete sentences.
The format is reflective of the limited time military personnel had to relax between missions.
Readers of military history will be interested in the combat scenes.
The format and lack of notes make the book more indicative to military historical fiction than a memoir.I received this book through a promotional giveaway.
Although encouraged, I was under no obligation to write a review.
The war needs to be told about. This is a different perspective on it. I liked it because of this. I wish that more info could have been shared because I don't know England, and there was never a summary of events.I know who won the war, but I saw this as another opportunity to show what happened in some important events. I guess there was some confidentiality, but couldn't there have been some mission debriefings? 2 ditchings at sea, but the story ends with the author's injury.
A rear view seat of the warThis seemed an average account of English bombing runs over France and Germany, most at night, from a tail gunner's perspective. Tightly confined in the ball turret and separated from the rest of the crew for hours in the freezing cold is enough to endure. Then add flack...and fighters.
SuperbI love RAF WWII books, but they are almost all written by and about pilot experiences. This incredible story by a tail gunner is every bit as stimulating and enjoyable as any book I’ave read. I loved reading it.
Great adventureWell written book. Almost like sharing each mission. Certainly have a feeling of " being there", sharing all the tension and fear as well as the relief when you finally sighted home. Nothing but pride and admiration for these wonderful, brave young men.
A very solid story in detail as things happened on several bombing raidsI chose a 5 star rating because the tech info along with the emotions evoked by the environment, sights, sounds and feelings all came together so we feel like it was happening directly to us... the readers.
Quite excellent and very detailed The chap who wrote this I can only imagine had a daily journal as the details are impeccable. These blokes are true bloody heroes that faced death at every corner. Cheers mate.
Enjoyable easy readGood account of the life of a tail gunner during the war. Good description of the many events they experienced.
Excellent book I felt I was with this young man during the war.One of the best ww2 books I read . Made me feel I was with the crew. Highly recommended Jpa
GreatReally informative about Bombers and the part they served in war. The action was Good and the story line put me on edge, in a good way.
Good StoryThis was a very interesting story and a quick read. It would have been nice if the author had described the different types of planes he was flying in.
A great story of bravery and sacrifice.If you like war stories this is a must read. I don't know if I could have done what these fellows did. I hope that I would have.
Good memoirA realistic and frank memoir of the thoughts and experiences of a British bomber tailgated during WW II. Well written and interesting
I received a galley of this novel for review through https://www.netgalley.com.
This is the first hand story of Flight-Lieutenant R.
Chivaz gives many first hand accounts of flying over occupied Europe and Germany.
He also tells of the two instances when his aircraft had to crash land in the North Sea. He describes life as a British flyer during World War II and includes many of his personal thoughts.
I thought that the 4 hours spent reading this 119 page novel gave a good view of life during World War II.
Further book reviews I have written can be accessed at http://johnpurvis.wordpress.com/blog/.
The tone of the narrative is that of a young brash and brave man that has not been changed by retrospection.
This is a very put you right there in his mindset and in the thinking of the era.I did find the book lacking a bit in the emotions that one would expect that comes along with war.
I put this down to his young age and the bravado that brings.
It did however for me detract from the overall enjoyment of this book.
It lacked the overall fullness that can be found in similar memoirs.
RC Rivas is a tail gunner during WWII and in this book he describes missions over Germany during day raids and night raids.
These accounts were written shortly after the happened and are so fresh they help with the vivid picture he describes.
Twice forced to ditch and both times surviving he tells of the night spent freezing and bailing water to attempt to stay afloat ...This is a real treat and for those interested in WWII air activity it is a must read
I've read quite a few first-hand accounts and memoirs from both the First and Second World Wars over
Absolute respect A riveting and enveloping account of the experience of taking part in bombing raids in the earlier years of the second world war, written eloquently in a way that shares the emotions, the action, the cold and the fear. An extraordinary book from a very brave and spirited man who knew, and who sadly never returned from a mission in 1943. He would have gone on that final mission even if he knew he wasn't coming back to finish the book. I salute you with gratitude, Riv.
Too old to become a pilot when the war broke out in 1939, Rivaz volunteered as a tail gunner, and th
This book lives up to its name.Different perspective about flying in a combat arena and the author has accomplished his goal by writing about his experiences with great detail. The book is understandable and forth right in it's aim to educate the reader, without, any regrets or personal agendas. I highly recommend this book to all flying enthusiasts. The author is a true hero.
Good Show!Too short but entertaining. There were obviously other parts to the story, other missions and activities on base that would be of interest. I would have liked to hear about his training.
A vivid tale of wartime service in the claustrophobic and dangerous world of a bomber plane tail gunner. From being bombed to night raids over Germany you could be next to the author as he brings the events to life. Written contemporaneously, the author was killed in 1945.
Interesting first person accountAs important as the official historical accounts of war are, the words from what would be my counterpart if I had been around are just as interesting, if not more so.
I chose this rating because this tail gunner lets us look over his shoulder throughmany harrowing and dangerous missions over enemy territory ending with a crash landing in the sea, a broken foot and speedy rescue.
