https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7937462-the-short-second-life-of-bree-tanner
To be fair, I think if you are a fan of Stephenie Meyer and all her books (including The Host and Breaking Dawn), you will enjoy this novella too.
Plus I couldn't stop myself from nitpicking (and it is always a bad sign):1) Does any vampire actually ever go through a violent and horrific newborn phase Eddie used to warn Bella about on numerous occasions?
Because I don't think Victoria and Riley do, they prefer making vamp "kissy noises." The only reason I am asking this question is because of the portrayal of Cullens as sex-crazed-furniture-breaking nymphomaniacs in Breaking Dawn.
As we know from Eclipse, these teen-vamps were to be used as fodder while Victoria attacked our clumsy heroine (though honestly, Vicky could've probably killed Bella by scattering a bag of marbles in her bedroom and wait for the hapless girl to trip & die).
Bree was an interesting character but ultimately there's no point in investing too much emotional attachment to her (we all know what happens in Eclipse).All in all, I liked it - a fun read and an interesting take on the Cullens from the outside.The 2018 ABC Challenge - S Audiobook CommentsRead by Emma Gavin, the ultimate queen of teen novels.
4 poignantly, tragically, thought provoking stars!! I want to say, right up front, that I hadn’t planned to read this book because those of us who read the entire Twilight Saga already know that things don’t turn out well for Bree Tanner. She played a very, very minor role in the book, Eclipse - I don’t even think she appeared in more than 2 pages - so, why read something about a character I cared very little about and already knew the outcome of? Well, one day I went to my mailbox and there wa
She played a very, very minor role in the book, Eclipse - I don’t even think she appeared in more than 2 pages - so, why read something about a character I cared very little about and already knew the outcome of?
I would be reading Bree’s story, after all.I’ll be honest, the first 50 pages or so seemed rather ho-hum to me, and I've decided that's because I began this book dreading the outcome.
And that's what you call a novella.  Don't watch, the redheaded mind reader whispered.  Poignantly written, Bree is a character that I warmed up to real fast.This book is heartbreaking for the helplessness rendered by the Volturi. Moved and seized me until I got to the end. A worthy addition to the series.Pooja, I am giving this book to you for sure to read. Why? Well, the stories is already known to you but the lyrical way of this all from Bree's point of recital, is spell bounding. 5 stars!
Read for Popsugar's 2018 Reading Challenge #38: A Book With an Ugly CoverNot terribly well written (obviously) but still fairly entertaining. It was definitely interesting to see a book in this series from the perspective of a vampire (RIP Midnight Sun), particularly a newborn vampire, so I'm really glad I finally read this! It's been about 10 years since I discovered the Twilight series so I'm starting to feel really nostalgic and this book was just what I needed.
It would've been nice to have a new character that would be most certain to make horrible mistakes (and not the bumbling idiotic mistakes Bella makes, but justified ones), but now I realise Meyer was just trying to stay true to the nature of the Volturi by killing off Bree.One of the only things she's managed to do right.I did not like this book.You'd think, by writing from a crazed newborn's perspective, Meyer would move away a bit from her usual writing style.
Don't know if I'm spoiling or not, but the missing fight scene in Eclipse between the rest of the Cullens and the newborns is missing in this book too.
The place's claim to fame was that it also housed a giant mango.
Reading Bree Tanner was a little like that.It was something that didn't make sense, from a series that was much bigger than it should have been and in the end, nobody could properly explain its existence to me.I asked my Twilight friends why it had been published and their nonchalant, disinterested shrug was almost identical to those crazy North Queenslanders with their giant mango.
Couldn't be bothered finishing it and at least the freakishly large mango gave me ice cream.
And, I think this is why her other books worked so spectacularly for me when they did – I already had so many feelings going on about so many different things that I was looking for comfort, not art.
In her introduction, she goes to great lengths to warn the reader that she might be forced to feel something at the end of the book; there was just no way for Meyer to get around it.
It would have made so much sense to end this book after the cave metaphor.

Opening Line: "The newspaper headline glared at me from a little vending machine: SEATTLE UNDER SEIGE--DEATH TOLL RISES AGAIN." I was surprised by how much I enjoyed this, I mean Bree's character only has a tiny part in Stephanie Meyers Twilight world so she and the rest of the newborns can’t really have much of a story to tell can they?
But when everything you know about yourself as a vampire is based on a lie how do you find out the truth, who do you trust and how do you get yourself free?With such an insignificant character like Bree getting her story told I realized that the novella possibilities here are endless.
This was without doubt a cheap ploy to fleece money out of Twilight fans by throwing together some utter drivel about characters you don't give a rats ass about.
The so-called love story never even starts and the end scenes where Bree faces the Cullens is piss poor, badly written and a total anti-climax.
The so-called 'shock' in the book was so obvious that I was just shaking my head!
Now I loved the Twilight books but this was pure rubbish and I certainly won't buy similar novellas in the shops again.
I feel totally cheated and ripped off with this twaddle.
Okay, I'm no longer curious. I'm bored out of my mind. I can't force myself to finish this novella before the movie.New SM promise: I will not watch either Breaking Dawn movie.Um, in the movie theater.Unless someone makes me.And I promise to put up a fight.At least in my head.And by making, I mean asking.So... who's going to ask me?I mean, it's got to be so bad it's good, right?I am so morbidly curious about that one.
This is a really fantastic novella! This was the first time I read the book and it definitely offered a really wonderful and interesting perspective that I absolutely loved. It was really well-crafted and absolutely sad (which was expected considering we know how the story must end). Fantastic addition to the series that I honestly think is better than both Twilight and Eclipse.
Bree Tanner had a minor role in the Eclipse book from the Twilight Saga.
In this novella, Bree’s story is told from her point-of-view during her short time as a newborn vampire.
The story started off a bit on the slow side, but started picking up when it headed into familiar territory including the lead-up to, and subsequent showdown with the Cullens, and then the Volturi who decide Bree’s fate.
I really enjoyed Bree’s fellow vampire friend, Fred.
This book was an interesting curiosity in the Twilight Saga, and it was nice seeing part of the story told from another perspective.
I read the Twilight series back in High School, even before I knew the movies were coming out.
I really liked the series but by the time this book came out I didn't want to go back and read another Twilight book, but for some reason now I wanted to.
I am so glad I saved this book for many years later.
I never re-read books unless I have to, so this was a great feeling of reading a Twilight book, but not re-reading anything I had previously read.
I really need to read another book by her!
Puede que a grandes rasgos esta novela no aporte nada a la saga. Pero a mí me ha encantado conocer un poco más a Bree. Es una pena el final trágico que tuvo. V_V T_TCreo que este es mi favorito hasta ahora. :D
You have barely constructed main characters, who in this case were Bree, newborn vampire of a couple months, and Diego, the obvious nomination for Bree’s love interest and companion.
Did the author even pause to think that maybe, just maybe, readers would want to know a bit about the characters personalities, backgrounds, APPEARANCE?
Did Meyer just think, Bree has to have a boyfriend, and since I’m on a hurry to grab a few extra bills, I’ll just make Diego a mindless idiot who instantly likes Bree?
But I know what freaky Fred looks like!
Wasn't bad. Actually this was a good nod back to the days before this series picked up its awful stigma that it has now. I like to pretend the fourth book and the movies didn't happen--these books weren't so obnoxious back then.The benefit of this book is you see how Riley and Victoria were controlling the newborn vampires--gets all the technical stuff out of the way and ties it all together nicely. 178 pages, it's a quick read. Not bad.
but I just want to say one thing to Stephenie Meyer.
You have to accept that eventually all good things come to an end and it's best to end this before you completely ruin it (although you did a pretty good job of ruining the whole series with Breaking Dawn).
There comes a time when it's quite sad that you have to start writing fanfiction for your own novel.I'll read it but I doubt I'll be happy with it.Having said that, I wish that Stephenie would start on a new project.
I would like to see something else from her that's not Twilight or The Host.
Not really the novella we wanted but the novella we got.This takes place during Eclipse when Victoria and Riley build a newborn Vampire army.We read from the point of view of Bree Tanner, a girl who got transformed into a Vampire against her will and is forced to fight against the Cullens.This definitely isn't a novella that you have to read, to understand the story. You don't miss anything skipping it. It's just a little extra insight on what happened on the other side while Bella and Edward tried to figure out who behind on all those killings was.
I have to say, though, that I wasn't super excited to read this novella by Stephenie Meyer on The Second Short Life of Bree Tanner, when I first heard about it.
I will say, though, that I felt sad at the end, even knowing what would happen.
And that’s the experience I look for in my reading.“I hope you end up caring about Bree as much as I do, though that’s kind of a cruel wish.
And that no perspective is ever really trivial.” - Introduction by Stephenie Meyer, The Second Short Life of Bree Tanner.I recommend this for fans of the series.
Si por algún misterio del destino cayera en manos de un lector que no ha leído la saga completa -o al menos hasta Eclipse-, no entendería nada.La narración da por hecho que el lector conoce el entorno y los personajes que dan vida a esta historia y, en ese contexto, es una novela muy bien lograda, que entrega algunos detalles que enriquecen la historia completa.
Además, uno logra encariñarse con el personaje de Bree y, tal como dice la autora en su introducción, cuanto más se acerca el inevitable final, más fuerte es el deseo de que Eclipse hubiera concluido de un modo sólo ligeramente distinto.
I don't care what your thoughts about Twilight are. It will always have a special place in my heart because of all the memories connected to it.
If you are a fan of twilight then this book is enjoyable and an interesting way to get some more backstory on the events of eclipse. I love being in Bree's mind and seeing things from her POV as a sort of clueless vampire.
Well, this was boring. I’ve had this book on my TBR for so long. I impulsively checked out the audiobook from Overdrive while browsing my wish list. It’s really short at 4 hours long and since I typically listen at 1.75x speed, I zipped through this in a little over 2 hours. I didn’t think this novella added much to the series, so I’m glad that I didn’t rush to read this when it released. At least now I can check it off my TBR.
Most Twilight fans that I know like the movies because of the books, not the other way around.
If you haven't read the book yet, stop here because this is your official spoiler alert.We first meet Bree after she's been a vampire for three months.
Interesting---don't you think she could have come up with another character development angle?Anyway, the book is written in typical S.M. style: lots of descriptions, feelings (Bree discovers her attraction to Diego in a really unexperienced way typical of a much younger girl), some weak plot elements, and more descriptions.
If you like the Twilight Saga, you will probably like this book.The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner: An Eclipse Novella is a short book.
This book tells us how it began.Bree Tanner's story gives us insight as to what was happening in Seattle when Victoria and Riley were building their vampire army.
She aligns herself with Diego, another "smart newborn." Early on in the story, Bree realizes that Riley is not telling her the truth.There are a few characters that are worthy of mention.
If you plan on seeing Eclipse at the movies, this will probably be something to read before the movie.(Note - book is online until first week of July www.breetanner.com ).
...Why did I even bother?Never mind how bad the Twilight trilogy is already, this book just seemed like a fast and easy way for Stephanie Meyer to rake in some money without having to think up an original plot or complex characters. This book was terrible and I'll never read it again, the only redeeming quality about it was the nice graphic of the hourglass on the front cover.
