https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77036.Captain_Horatio_Hornblower
One of my favorite novels of all time. If you read this particular volume straight through -- it was originally three separate books -- it's perfect. A swooping plot arc that runs from Nicaragua to England to Spain and France, studded with superb action and packed with some of the best characters ever.
Great adventure stories, but I didn't find the ending to Ship of the Line or Flying Colours satisfying.
He is characterized in a way that isn't seen as traditionally attractive and at times succumbs to sea sickness.
They are the best part of the books, second only to the characterization of the captain.So why the ding of a star?
No, I'm not expecting a PC telling from a 1930s era writer, but the use of certain slurs and stereotypes don't add much to the overall story and feel more forced more than anything.If you like naval thrillers and like me just couldn't get into the O'Brian books, consider Hornblower the Aubrey light series.
Reading this collection it was impossible not to fall in love with the neurotic, brilliant, Horatio Hornblower.
With layers of rich detail which bring the era, the politics, and the art of seamanship to life, Forester paints a backdrop interesting enough to be read for its own sake.
It is in this world of Napoleonic conquest that the characters are thrown, each distinct and developed enough to assemble a memorable cast which struggles throughout the trials of the books.
Front and center, of course, is Captain Hornblower, who must navigate not only the sea, but also the deadly currents of politics, which he does with equal parts chronic self-doubt, and ruthless cunning.
I've probably read all of the Hornblower books at least three times over four decades.
I'm only reviewing 'Captain Hornblower' volume because it contains three stories and is probably the collection that develops the character the best.
Also a movie with Gregory Peck.
C.S. Forester wrote several books about the sea and sailors and these are worthwhile reads, too.
Also the inspiration for my main character in my books.
Hornblower has spawned many imitators but he's still the best.For anyone interested, start with Mr. Midshipman Hornblower and stick with the intrepid hero as he rises through the ranks.
Komentajakapteeni Hornblower : meriromaani Napoleonin ajoilta" (Otava, 1942) kokoaa yhteen kolme Hornblower-tarinaa, jotka vievät lukijansa englantilaisen meriupseerin mukaan maailman merille taistelemaan niin Ranskan laivastoa kuin sisäistä kunnian- ja velvollisuudentuntoakin vastaan. Seikkailua ryydittää myös ripaus romantiikkaa. Kerta kaikkiaan nautittava vanhanajan meriromaani! Suomenkielinen nide on jaettu kahteen kirjaan, joka sisältää tarinat The Happy Return, A Ship of the Line ja Flying Colors.
C.S. Forester wrote several books set during the Napoleonic Wars about naval officer Horatio Hornblower. They are clearly well researched and include plenty of detail of life in the Royal Navy of the time.These three were the first written in the series, but not the first chronologically, as the author later wrote about Hornblower's early naval career. He is a captain here and even manages a hint of hesitant romance.
This dusty little collection came to me via Kyle's garage sale explorations. (He always finds treasures for me ~ whether or not I want them!)I loved the first book, and I'm just starting the second in the series. The description is excellent without bogging down the reader; and, although it's fiction, it feels like it could have happened. If you like things nautical (Christopher!) with a bit of action for good measure, this book is for you!
I have been feeling sick over the last few days and am rereading the Hornblower series as a comfort. I first read these books as a young adult and was captivated. The stories are compelling and the character of Hornblower with his courage and self-doubt resonated deeply with me and continues to do so. the Master and Commander books do not live up to Forester's standard.
Having watched the movie for the first time this year, I decided to check out the book, and am glad I did. The internal struggles of Hornblower are both thought-provoking and hysterically funny. Once I got past the point of caring what many of the nautical terms were, it became more enjoyable. (Seriously, there needs to be a glossary and a map and charts and things.)
I have my dad's copy of this book that he took with him into the Pacific during the Second World War. He was a Marine artillery officer and an intrepid man, who I think modeled himself on Hornblower, among others. I've have always loved these three books. It is good to have heroes. Success to the Marines and Captain Hornblower!
I chose to read this book because several people mentioned that Star Trek 2: The Wrath of Khan took its inspiration from here, and I can see the influence. A bit hard to read at times with all of the nautical jargon, but an adventurous and fun read.
Probably the three most enjoyable and engrossing Hornblower books - if you can find all three as a set or compliation, get them. This set also makes a great gift to a reader to introduce them to Hornblower.
This book contain's 3 novels Beat to Quarters, Ship of the Line, and Flying Colours. The story picks up speed and staem...war, personal loss, personal gain, prisoner of war, escape, court martial, knighthood. Don't miss any of it.
The first book in this is very boring, but that's the only "four star" part about it. The last two are AMAZING! I could not put it down, everything was so cleverly planned and OH! "Ha-hm," said Hornblower...
Fiction
Ugghh.
Great story and interesting to read about Napoleon from a British perspective.
It's just amazing to me that people set off across the ocean all the time with nothing but the stars to guide them.
an all time favorite. I like Patrick O'Brien too, but find myself rereading Hornblower much more often.
I first read this book when I was 17. It took another reading later to appreciate the realism of the nautical descriptions, and my connection to the character of Hornblower.
A great book. A seminal book for me. Hornblower came at a time I needed a role model.
Wow, great book! I am a big fan of the Aubrey/Maturin series and this was a fantastic book of that genre!
A good adventure and characterization, but I'm afraid I liked Gregory Peck's interpretation better than the original in the book.
Very good, but I prefer Patrick O'Brian's Aubrey/Maturin series. Still, well worth the read for anyone that enjoys historical fiction.
These books were full of adventure, but dear God... what a mess of a guy.
I thought it was okay. But I love the A&E movies. I actually like the character of Horatio so much beter in the movies.
A nautical epic in the time of the Napoleon conquests, first person perspective, very interesting pyschological and historical detail. It reads like good action, a surprising page turner.
Awesome. Hornblower is so self critical and doubtful of his abilities... And then he blows some French shit up!
