https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25200.Silence
“Sin, he reflected, is not what it is usually thought to be; it is not to steal and tell lies. Sin is for one man to walk brutally over the life of another and to be quite oblivious of the wounds he has left behind.”  Japanese Painting by an unknown artist of the Christian Martyrs of Nagasaki.The Jesuit priest Francis Xavier born in SPAIN, but representing PORTUGAL arrived in Japan in 1543 to save souls. The Japanese were Buddhist, not “heathens” without a proper religion. The Spanish Franciscan
Japanese Painting by an unknown artist of the Christian Martyrs of Nagasaki.The Jesuit priest Francis Xavier born in SPAIN, but representing PORTUGAL arrived in Japan in 1543 to save souls.
The Japanese, at different times over the following century, rounded up the priests and their most fervent converts and shipped them off the island.
Christianity has been banned, and if there are any priests left on the island, they are hiding and practicing their religious incantations underground.
They don’t know if he lives or is martyred, but there are rumors that he has apostatized and now works for the Japanese.
Two Portuguese priests get into Japan by ship from Macao at a time when Japanese officials had banned Christianity and were killing priests and torturing suspected Christians to apostatize (give up their faith).
The main character is a young priest who fears capture and torture but assumes his faith is so strong that he can withstand it, as Christ did.
Arriving with religious fervor, the young priest quickly worries about losing his faith.
All the Europeans in Japan at the time (Portuguese, English, Dutch, Spanish) are trying to convert Japanese to Christianity and they undercut each other’s efforts and cause confusion about what brand is the “true religion.” Certainly not a pretty read, and a very slow starter, but a good read if you like historical fiction.
Painful and deep book about the religionsI think this book change me and makes me more respectful to other religions even if you religion different than what I believe I should respect you because this what you believe too
This is an intense - rather grim - epistolary novel written mostly from the vantage point of a Roman Catholic priest, a missionary to Japan, early in the 17th century.
The first executions created too many martyrs, so the Japanese officials attempted to force the Christians to apostatize by stamping or pressing their foot on a depiction of Christ or the Virgin, a fumie.
At one point Rodrigues is forced to watch the death of Japanese Christian martyrs as they are wrapped alive in matting and dropped into the sea.
Endō, a Japanese Catholic, uses the story of two Jesuit priests in search of an apostate Jesuit to explore issues of faith, circumstance, belief, sin, courage, suffering, martyrdom, etc., especially during periods when God is silent.
I just mean that the prose of this novel (or at least Johnston's translation of Endō) was fine, solid.
Born into the world to render service to mankind, there is no one more wretched alone than the priest who does not measure up to his task.""But Christ did not die for the good and beautiful.
Things I'm afraid to try to name 'cause it'd probably make me an asshole (like if I could ever understand or know anyone else).
Unless I get confused reading a book like Silence and it ruins my life!
Not to mention the Alabama baptist church my mom allowed this "kind lady" - ha!- to force us to go to.) Shusako Endo's Silence might be about God and religion and stuff like that, as the book jackets and quotes suggest.
I read lots of books and listen to music to keep up the feeling like someone other than me.
It is easy enough to die for the good and beautiful; the hard thing is to die for the miserable and corrupt.  The context of the above line is based on the sacrifice Jesus made for sins of humanity. Now I am going to revise this line to explain the story of Silence.For priests of Japan, it was easy enough to die as good and beautiful; the hard thing was to die as miserable and corrupt.Hailed as one of the best novels of the twentieth century, Endo's Silence creates a fascinating as well as tho
Now I am going to revise this line to explain the story of Silence.For priests of Japan, it was easy enough to die as good and beautiful; the hard thing was to die as miserable and corrupt.Hailed as one of the best novels of the twentieth century, Endo's Silence creates a fascinating as well as thought provoking historical fiction which draws deep from theology, faith, doubt, and pure human condition.Set in the 17th century, the story introduces young Portuguese Jesuit Sebastião Rodrigues and his companions who travels to Japan to seek their mentor, father Ferreira who has gone cold.
Αυτή η σιωπή, αποτελείται απο κραυγές και ουρλιαχτά, απο ηχηρά γέλια αφοσίωσης, απο εσωτερικούς μονολόγους συνείδησης, απο βογγητά πόνου, απο αναστεναγμούς προδοσίας, απο φωνές σιωπηλής θυσίας κι απο έντονη, δυνατή, ηχηρή μα αθόρυβη ανάγκη κατανόησης της φυσικής ύπαρξης του θεϊκού ανθρώπου που συγκρούεται με τον ανθρώπινο θεό.
Μια θεολογία όπου η υψηλότερη μορφή αγάπης είναι η αποστασία, την οποία ενθαρρύνει ο ίδιος ο Χριστός ως μορφή πίστης και θυσίας προς τον συνάνθρωπο.
Ως ρηχή θεολογική μοιρολατρία μπορεί να γίνει αποδεκτή η ιδέα της σιωπής...αλλά σε ένα βαθύτερο επίπεδο προφανώς και υπάρχει εξήγηση που απαντάει σαφέστατα σχετικά με την σιωπή του Θεού.
What a devastatingly brilliant novel about faith, fanaticism, love, suffering, and ultimately, the silence of God. Why does God allow pain to flourish in the world? Why does God stand silent while the world burns? This novel, about Jesuit Portuguese missionaries in Japan in the 17th Century is gorgeously rendered, asks the hardest of hard questions, and is simply one of the greatest novels I've ever read. Very excited to see the upcoming film adaptation by Martin Scorsese.
A worthwhile read even for a non-Christian like me who, nonetheless, has a deep and abiding intellectual interest in religion and spirituality. But VERY Christian. You have to have some empathy for that side of the story in order for it to be a satisfying read. If you're an atheist, not for you. No no no...
Πρώτο βιβλίο ιαπωνικής λογοτεχνίας που διαβάζω. Θέμα του η θρησκεία και συγκεκριμένα η διάδοση του χριστιανισμού στην Ιαπωνία τον 17ο αιώνα. Αν και άθρησκος, άθεος, με εντυπωσίασε. Θίγει πολύ ενδιαφέροντα θέματα και θέτει ορισμένα διλήμματα. Έως που μπορεί να φτάσει ένας άνθρωπος που θεωρεί τις ιδέες του σωστές, όταν προκαλούν το βασανισμό και τον θάνατο, σε μια κοινωνία που δεν μπορεί να τις αποδεχτεί. Συνάδει η ηθική με την θρησκεία; κτλ. Αξίζει να διαβαστεί από όλους, για να βγάλει ο καθένας τα συμπεράσματα, από την προσωπική του οπτική γωνία.Ανυπομονώ να δω και την ταινία, που σκηνοθέτησε ο Scorcese.
I have not seen the Scorsese film but my edition does contain an introduction by Scorsese so there is a link to it.The book is primarily about the difficulties in maintaining faith in a hostile environment, and specifically the trials undergone by Portuguese Catholic missionaries, whose work in Japan flourished in the 16th century but was brutally suppressed.
This is a little difficult to understand for those of us who never had (or wanted) a faith in the first place, but it is still very moving.The central figure is Father Rodrigues, a missionary who has travelled clandestinely to Japan via Macao with one other priest to investigate what happened to his former teacher and mentor, who had been sending reports back but is rumoured to have apostatized.
Although, if any of you have read Shogun "fond" may not be the best way to describe the reading experience as there lots - and I do mean LOTS - of gory descriptions of cruelty and violence.Obviously, I must have forgotten about that when I gleefully signed up to the group read of Silence.Endo also goes into a lot of detail when describing the obstacles and hardship - read "torture and violence" - that the priests and Christians endured under the samurai rule, at a time when Christianity was banned from Japan - because the rulers decided it was of "no value" (according to one of Endo's characters) to the Japanese society.The second aspect that intrigued me to the book was, of course, that some reviews compare Endo to Graham Greene.
Sometimes it just seems appropriate to leave off one book and seek out another, as if you are being led to it.Silence tells a fictionalized story of what may have happened to two Portuguese priests who ventured onto mainland Japan during the persecution of the Christians around 1643.
Then it was believed no pain, deprivation, imprisonment, torture of oneself or one’s fellows—however prolonged, could ever be so bad it couldn’t be endured for love of God. It was simply a matter of one’s faith and will.Silence is about the silence of God. I was 96 pages into the book before it occurred to me to keep track of all the times Shusaku Endo used the word, ‘silence’, ‘silent’ or ‘silently’, as well as words about sound.
The effect is fresh and invigorating despite the too sad and serious theme of sacrificing life and bearing all the tortures just to keep one's faith in God. Its impact to me was that I should not take my belief in God for granted because missionaries (now saints and blessed ones) gave up their lives to spread the Catholic faith all over the world.
The question was answered at the end of the novel and it was I think an appropriate ending.I recommend this book to all religious scholars who want to know more about that era in Japan.
27 – 28)Em Portugal três jovens padres – Francisco Garpe, João de Santa Marta e Sebastião Rodrigues (antigos alunos de Cristóvão Ferreira) – começam a preparar uma longa e fatigante viagem para investigar e compreender ”… o facto de Ferreira ter sido forçado à apostasia em tão longínquo país, na periferia do mundo, representava não apenas o fracasso de um homem, mas a derrota humilhante da própria fé e de todo o Ocidente.””Para estes três homens… era de todo impossível acreditar que o seu idolatrado mestre Ferreira, posto perante a eventualidade de um glorioso martírio, se tivesse deixado arrastar como um rafeiro diante do infiel.
Way too much of the book is all about the Japanese authorities trying to get Rodrigues to apostatize himself by trampling on an image of Christ which gets dull fast.
The book’s well-written and Endo convincingly brings this era to life, even providing a thoughtful perspective on the Japanese mentality when it came to their interpretation of Christianity - that they’re incapable of viewing Jesus as anything but a literal man, like the Buddha, rather than on a larger, more metaphorical level.
I haven't had so much thought over an action in a long time and i know that it has to do with God and stuff, but i just, i cannot make peace with myself.
They will be minor, but still spoilers******I am so angry with all the people who blame God for everything bad on the planet.
Stop blaming God and take responsibility.
And i don't understand missionaries.
If your God is so great and so forgiving then leave people in peace.
I would leave them in peace and their sins are on me.
If there is God, please forgive us.
1632-a letter of 22nd March accounts for the attempt to make 5 priests (and two women, Beatriz and Mary) to renounce their faith; letter recalls how they resisted the torture period of 33 days in a secluded mountain.
1633-no more news from Japan 1637-Portugal; 3 Portuguese (Sebastião, João and Francisco) start preparations to travel to Japan, to investigate about Ferreira.
… Finally in Japan: in Tomogi, near Nagasaki….where almost all the population is baptized; and yet, there’s no priest it’s been 6 years; he’s been replaced by the elder of the place: Jiisama.The Portuguese notice how poor the people are, too much agriculture work.
Actual Rating: 2.5 StarsHm. Truly, I flickered between being super interested in this & falling asleep while reading it. I enjoy religious themes, especially when presented in conflict, but somehow this small book manages to feel long winded with dry patches throughout. Read for BookTube-a-Thon 2018!Challenge: Read a book & then watch the film adaption!
This story is about two missionaries (Frs. Sebastian Rodrigues and Garrpe) going to Japan for their mission.
Their journey and the lives in the land of Japan makes the story vibrant and our hearts will be burning when we read this book.
Two Fathers, missionaries (Frs. Sebastian Rodrigues and Garrpe) were so much zealous about their call among the peasants of Japan.
Another wonderful thing Endo did was how he was narrating this story parallel to the passion narrative of Jesus.
I encourage everyone to read this story really it will strengthen your faith.
Introduction, by Martin ScorseseHistorical Note--SilenceAppendix: Diary of an officer at the Christian residence
Christians were forced to trample on the image of Jesus (called a fumie) or they were horribly tortured to death.And the thread of torture and death hangs over every page, so this is a tough book to read.
Is it more religious to stick to one's faith - to refuse to apostatize, or trample on the fumie?
But in the end, (view spoiler)[he is never tortured; instead, Japanese Christians are tortured until he apostatizes.
Which, of course, he does immediately, because what price is his own pride compared to the slow death of those who never signed on for a trial like this?
عوضاً عن العنصر القصصي الرائع في حبكتها، فإن العنصر المهم حقّاً في هذه الرواية هو طابعها الفلسفي التأملي العقائدي العميق.
تصف الصراع النفسي الحاد في عقائد الشخصيّات من خلال المواقف التي مرّت بها في الرواية.
ثم تصل في أواخيرها إلى هدف الرحلة ككل، القس فيرييرا المرتد، وعن ارتداده وعيشه، وموقف تلميذه من المسألة ككل وماتلاه في حياته.
لا أريد أن أفسد متعة قراءة الرواية لأي قارئ محتمل.الأسلوب المستعمل وطريقة السرد وطريقة الوصف واستعمال المفردات والأماكن التي يقوم الكاتب بالتركيز عليها كانت أصيلة لها طابعها المميز، وكانت تجربة بعيدة إلى حد ما عن الأساليب المتبعة في الرواية الغربية بشكل عام.
It's a short book, about two hundred or so pages, yet there's some of the most intense, sustained religious storytelling I've ever read in any novel.The resonant, repeated echoes of the cross, of silence, and of the face of Christ are compelling in a book who's title is Silence and a story whose major turning point centers around the face of Christ.
The prose style is very lucid, simple to read, yet deep enough to sustain the verbal echoes of silence ('silent' 'silence' and other similar plays on this idea) and the face of Christ, as well as the narrative echoes of the Passion story.
“Deus deseja prevenir o mal, mas não é capaz?
Então porque existe o mal?Não é capaz e nem deseja?
Então por que lhe chamamos Deus?”— EpicuroSilêncio é um livro muito bonito e triste sobre crença religiosa e a eterna subjugação dos poderosos sobre os fracos, recorrendo, se necessário, à tortura e à morte.
É por coisas destas que a minha fé na humanidade se torna maior e mais me afasto de qualquer possível crença nos deuses..."Divina ComédiaErguendo os braços para o céu distante E apostrofando os deuses invisíveis, Os homens clamam: — «Deuses impassíveis, A quem serve o destino triunfante, Porque é que nos criastes?!
Porque é que para a dor nos evocastes?» Mas os deuses, com voz inda mais triste, Dizem: — «Homens!
إن صمتَ إندو هو صمتٌ صارخ، مترع بالتساؤلات، مفعم بالرحيل*كامل يوسف حسين (من مقدمة الرواية) وما أعظم من الإله حتى تدور أفكارنا حوله؟ وما أكثر الأمور جذبًا مثل الدين حتى نتساءل عنه؟ وهل هناك ما هو أعظم فتنة من الرب حتى نكتب عنه؟إن الصمت، صمت إندو، صمت الله، صمت الرب يسوع، هو أكثر ما يمكن أن يدفع أحدهم للكتابة، وأشد ما يمكن أن يجذبك للقراءة.إن الصمت هنا صمت الرب، صمت الحق، صمت الضمير.
ولأني من عشاق مارتن سكورسيزي كنت مستني فيلمه الجديد بشغف،فلما نزل التريلر شوفته وانبهرت طبعا،ولفت ان
4.5 starsThis is an extremely powerful and deep exploration of faith. It takes place in 17th century Japan where Portuguese priests (missionaries) travel to minister to the Christian peasants. This was a time when Christians were hunted down and tortured and forced to renounce their beliefs. When one of the priests is given the choice to renounce to save Christians from being tortured he has to face his own beliefs and fears. This wasn't a fun book to read but I'm really glad I read it. I learned some things about a time period I knew virtually nothing about.
Θα πρέπει να μοιράζεσαι μέχρι ένα σημείο τις ανησυχίες του αφηγητή κ τα ερωτήματα που θέτει για να απολαύσεις το βιβλίο. Κάτι τέτοιο δεν ίσχυε με μένα. Μπορεί να εντυπωσιάστηκα απ'την εκφραστική δεινότητα του συγγραφέα κ την ένταση που έβγαζε η γραφή του αλλά αν το βιβλίο ήταν 50 σελίδες παραπάνω θα το είχα αφήσει προ πολλού.Θα δοκιμάσω άλλο ένα βιβλίο του με διαφορετικό θέμα μιας κ γράφει έξοχα
