https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31493.Standing_in_the_Rainbow
You know, sometimes I just need a book that is not going to scare me, get my hackles raised, or make me sad and depressed.
I had been reading "The Alienist" and "Wicked", but I found myself feeling so heavy and sad.
So I put the books down and went to find something light and airy.
I love this book.
It's a feel good book with many, many characters.
When things were a bit slower, but more appreciated.
I don't know any of my neighbors.
But don't think it's boring because there is a bit of mystery throw in.
This is one of my favorite books.
I felt such a sense of nostalgia when I read this book, for a place and time I never experienced.
I never experienced the 40s and 50s, but I sense from that time that the same secure feeling existed - a confidence in the greatness of America, and its ability to survive and thrive because of its wholesome values.
But I found myself on board with Fannie Flagg's message - there was something special about the 40s and 50s, and the attitude of believing good things of America; there was something good about that time that we discarded somewhere.
I enjoyed the humor in those and she knows how to create endearing characters.
This book also had some very memorable characters that were well drawn.
Crazy personal stories appeared in the local newspapers.
In some ways, this book sounded like a collection of those kinds of stories and they were stitched together in these pages.
I did enjoy reading the personal type of quirkiness of the characters.
However, I think this book was too long because it seemed like so much of the same.
The stories started looking like rambling and towards the end, I kept wondering when it was going to end.
You can run for cover under the awning of Great Literature, you can put up an umbrella of sophisticated disdain, but it's no use: Once you're caught in this warm downpour of kitschy comedy, you quickly give in and start singing in the rain.Her latest novel, "Standing in the Rainbow," opens with a statement "To the Public at Large" from old Mrs. Tot Whooten, the ridiculously untalented hairdresser of Elmwood Springs, Mo.
This is my first Fannie Flagg book, but it won't be my last.
I really enjoyed this book.
You could be talking about the neighbor's dogs with her one minute and the tone never changes when you switch and talk about a relative with a serious illness.
I got caught up on the comings and goings of the novel's small community, just like I do with my Nanie's updates.I was so sad when the book ended.
I long to live in their community.
Okay, I'll just come out and admit it.
I want to BE Neighbor Dorothy.
While it shared the same tone and humor as "Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe" it lacked the heart and soul.
It was entertaining most of the way through and felt fun to visit the characters like they were my own friends and family but it was all very shallow.
My second problem with the book was that the characters were all pretty bland.
I was just hoping to find a story that was as rich and textured, poignant and humorous and as real as "Fried Green Tomatoes..." but this fell disappointingly short of the mark.
This was kind of a strange book. It didn't really have a plot but was more a series of anecdotes about a bunch of people. I also didn't realize until I had finished it that it was a prequel (though written after) another of her books.The characters were all appropriately quirky and most of the stories about them were interesting but as the book progressed I felt like I was lacking any real connection to any of them. So, while I enjoyed it, I can't say I loved it (and I generally like Flagg's books a lot).
I was wrong and a snob and I’ve changed my evil ways because I’ve loved listening to audio books.I think what stands out for me the most with this particular Fannie Flagg story getting to see the passage of time and how Elmwood Springs and all it’s inhabitants change, yet stay the same.
What I truly loved was how as much as the world changed the fundamental truths of love and family and friends stayed the same.What I had forgotten from the first time I read Standing in the Rainbow was just how many stories were told in this story.
Love Fannie Flagg! And listening to her books? Even better.
Following this yarn was like being led through a very long, very pointless labyrinth.
And in the monotony of the labyrinth, somewhere, the hair prickling up your neck, you realise with mounting dread, there are REPUBLICANS!The whole book is the most chronic piece of self-idyll-mythologising bullshit you ever read.
Not one black person.
In fact the only black person even mentioned is Huey P.
Newton of the Black Panther Party who is classed outright as a "traitor".
The sympathetic, homespun, charming, down-to-earth, tell-it-like-it-is character who goes into politics suggests during the 60s that they ought to nuke the gooks.
It is nice to imagine a town such as the one depicted in this book. This is a fun positive read where you meet an interesting collection of characters and see them develop over the years.
Oh my, the question: "What did you think?" I feel like I'm cheating this one only giving it 3 stars, but there were parts in the middle why I was wondering why I was reading it at all.
Kind of like one of our favorite family quotes, "Nobody planned it that way; it just happened to happen." Like the one unnamed family from which the book draws its title, driving in a rainstorm one day, sees a rainbow and decides to follow it to its end, and finds themselves standing and dancing in and out a beautiful array of colors.Life does keep moving, and we move along with it.
She writes of Neighbor Dorothy, who broadcasts her daily show from her living room.
Dorothy reminded me so much of a friend's mother, "Gert," who was known by everyone in their small town on the Wisconsin-Illinois border.
That the young people grew up and left home to make good was so much a part of our own ethos.
Some may find the wacky things that happened to be unbelievable, but if you were raised in a town like this, you know how absolutely hilarious things could get because there are characters who keep life spicy, no matter how bland it might seem to outsiders.
There were at least 10 main characters who all had stories going on.
If someone asked me who the main character was, I wouldn't be able to say.
The book walks through 4 decades of people who lived in or visited Elmwood Springs, MO and how the passage of time changed their lives.
I think Fannie Flagg's best time periods are the 40s and 50s.
If you like Fannie Flagg, it's worth a read.
I'm still puzzled by the title because it's only referenced once and I don't see how it relates to any of the character's plots.
This book starts in 1946 in Elmwood Springs, Missouri.
Fannie describes all the characters in town and tells bits and pieces of their lives throughout a fifty year period.
I know that some of the characters cross over to at least one of her other books.
I was quite frustrated with the first half of the book.
There just didn’t seem to be a story that ran together.
Then she spends about 10 chapters on one couple, leaving you the feeling that was the main story.
I wouldn’t re-read this or choose any of her other books.
Weird, I know
I enjoyed the first third or so of this book, even though it was an obvious reboot of Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe.
There's a diner and a hairdresser, but this time they are minor scenarios, and a big "mystery disappearance" (the explanation of which was eyerollingly bad).
By the end I was skimming.For another thing, I spent some time in Missouri, where my father was born and many relatives lived, in the sixties and seventies, and again in the early nineties, and Flagg's version is a lot more Southern-fried than I remember.
È un romanzo ricco di personaggi, alcuni dei quali molto pittoreschi, di cui seguiamo le vicende personali e come queste sono in relazione con le vite e le altre vicende di tutti i cittadini della piccola comunità.
Ognuno di essi ha una caratteristica che lo rende unico, a cominciare dal piccolo Bobby che rende turbolenta la vita della famiglia Smith, o di Norma, la più ansiosa donna che abbia mai incontrato all'interno di un romanzo.
Insomma questo libro ci permette di seguire la crescita di molti personaggi e l'invecchiamento e la perdita, a volte precoce, di altri, dandoci l'impressione che siano persone di famiglia, per le cui vicende siamo costretti a gioire o soffrire, a seconda dei casi.
Although this offering didn’t resonate as strongly with me as some of the author’s other books, it was still a worthy read that made some good points. Certain moments were particularly nostalgic or poignant to me, and of course other scenes were hilarious. It illustrates well how the ordinary (and not so ordinary) days of our lives are pieces of what eventually, together, become our life-story arc. If you can appreciate small moments in a snippet of daily life without any expectations, you should enjoy this book.
4 stelle e mezzo
пора видимо прекращать читать эти книжки, они всё хуже) очень много лишних, ненужных линий здесь, а интересная, по сути, одна - про женщину-губернатора. было бы лучше оставить только ее.
I enjoyed the first part (1940s - 1950s) more than the later bits (1960s - 1980s).
It had a very familiar, "home-y" feeling, and I think if my dad (born in 1942) had grown up in Missouri instead of northern Alberta, his childhood would have been very similar to this.
Not my thing, but I have a feeling that if I heard these songs now (in small doses, mind), it would just make me nostalgic and put a smile on my face -- quite the opposite of my reaction to this music back when I was in high school
Then as I continued to listen, I began to fall in love with the characters and became invested in their lives - and that bumped the rating up to 3.5*.
And just as life in American began to become more complicated in the 60's and 70's, so did the lives of the characters in the story.
As they continue on into the 80's and 90's more changes come, but just as many other Americans, the characters in the book began to realize how special their lives had been in the 40's and 50's.
Per cui, quando ho iniziato questo libro, speravo di poter modificare la mia idea iniziale sulla scrittrice, in modo tale da apprezzarla come fanno molti che conosco.E invece mi dispiace dire che alla fine della fiera il libro non ha fatto che confermare quella che prima era solo una mia idea.Il libro è veramente, ma veramente lento.
I'm glad I read it.It follows the lives of several people in small town America (later in the book a character actually petitions the town board to change their slogan to "The Most Middle Town in America") over a span of 50+ years.
These are characters that you meet in every small town and were great fun to discover while reading.
Read this if:You grew up in a small townYou are looking for something light to readYou liked "Fried Green Tomatoes" (the author wrote the book that was based on as well as the screenplay...she's a Broadway actress too!
So have you ever read that book that was entertaining but...you were sure it was NEVER going to end?
Well, that was this book.I love Fannie Flagg, but she has a strange and somehow wonderful quality to write about what can only be described as "every day life" and still make it interesting...to a point.I liked this book, don't get me wrong, it's just...a book about nothing really.
There's no one main character, there's no one protagonist or antagonist, it's just...a really long drawn out story of several different characters over many decades.
Many will find this book dull, but if you stick with it you may be pleasantly surprised.
The first half, while sometimes having too much info, was a sweet, tasty slice of Post WWII America, but as the decades went by I felt she lost her balance; We get a 3 page slap across the face outlining the sudden death of a beloved character and an interminable chunk (30?
More pages) of the political drama and rat race of a character who gets more irritating by the word...
So instead of the usual 5, I must give this 3 stars (Maybe 2, but I am being lienient out of love from prior books)
I recently picked up ...Green Tomatoes to re-read and was reminded how much I enjoy Flagg's writing.
I quickly moved on (and through, easy reads) Welcome to the World, Baby Girl and this one - Standing in the Rainbow.
The rhythm of her writing is soothing and funny and familiar.
It feels as though a favorite aunt is telling these stories to you.
It may not win awards (or it may) but Fannie Flagg's books continue to be some of my favorites and hold a special place in my heart.
These are books you'll want to keep and re-read, throughout the years.
With this, I finish Fannie Flagg's Elmwood Springs series - out of order. The order isn't really important, it's all the characters - Aunt Elner Shimfissle, Macky and Norma Warren, Tot Whooten, and Dorothy Smith with her radio show. The characters are alive and familiar quickly to this reader (listener). I'm glad I still have other of Fannie Flagg's books to go. She is always a reliable voice for bringing a shake to my head and a smile to my lips.
Fannie Flagg is gifted with timeless literary richness, painting heartfelt joys and sorrows of life, love, community and the hopeful human spirit. Along with all the nuances, idiosyncrasies, frailties, and strengths that go hand-in-hand with small town American living. "Standing In The Rainbow" gives readers a sense of honorary next door neighbor statues and a warm embracing extended family welcome. A delightful read.
4 STARS"Meet the unforgettable residents of Elmwood Springs, Missouri, in a story that captures the humorous and complex realities of ordinary people, including Neighbor Dorothy, a radio hostess, and her wayward son Bobby, the Oatman Family gospel singers, and hotshot salesman Hamm Sparks." (From Amazon) More tales from a small town Elwood Springs! Heartwarming and funny.
