https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80642.Garlic_and_Sapphires
It's something I'm going to keep thinking about for a long time, particularly the next time we sit down to eat out -- whether it be at a hole-in-the-wall family-owned joint, a Major National Chain (tm), or a Dining Experience (tm) -- because Reichl has a lot of very smart, savvy, and interesting things to say, reading between the lines (and sometimes more overt than that) about American national identity, relationship to food, and concepts of service, status, and privilege.
A bit more sapphire than garlic.
Ruth Reichl's book about her time as the New York Times food critic is mainly focused on her need to don disguises in order not to be recognized in the restaurants she was reviewing and how changing her appearance opened her eyes to how people are treated due to their physical appearance and projected personality.
Therefore, foodies will find less about food in Garlic and Sapphires and more about fashion.I was hoping for more about the food.
I guess I neglected to read the book's subtitle, The Secret Life of a Critic in Disguise.
It might have been a bit more relevant at that time but it's message about the love of good food, told with insight and humor is timeless.
Reichl comes up with new identities, clothing, make-up, wigs which allow her to blend as just a diner on her forays to some of the best and other times, little known restaurants in New York.
The recipes range from simple like Matzo Brei to a full fledged roast leg of lamb dinner.
I wonder why the homeless man's story touches me and the cheapskate makes me a bit ill.Reichl has written other memoirs, always with a touch of food, so much of her life.
Far from the funny, sensitive, and sincere person she was in her first book, Reichl had transformed herself into a self-absorbed snob loaded with enough hypocrisy to sink a ship.This book covers Reichl's stint as the New York Times chief restaurant critic.
(I'm pretty sure the guy in Birkenstocks could not afford to go to Japan for eating lessons.) In her other encounters with diners at top-notch restaurants Reichl indulges in so much blatant one-up-manship that you simply can't sympathize with her concern for the "simple folk" no matter how much she tries to dress like them.
I've also read the memoir of Frank Bruni, the other recent Times master-of-disguise.
This book has everything that one didn't, maybe because Reichl threw herself into her self-made characters with such commitment.
Or maybe because Reichl is savvy enough to include her own reviews at the close of each chapter, so that the reader sees the finished product as well as the behind the scenes.
Or maybe because of the recipes interspersed between the chapters, which show the love of food behind everything else she does.
Garlic and Sapphires: The Secret Life of a Critic in Disguise chronicles Reichl's ten year stint with the Times, and her effort to bring good food to the masses.
If you love reading about the art of food, you will thoroughly enjoy this book.
Needless to say, it was a hit, just like she promised it'd be!Ruthie's Scalloped PotatoesIngredients1 clove garlic, cut in half1 Tbsp unsalted butter2 cups milk3 cups heavy creamSalt and Pepper4 pounds baking potatoes, peeledPreheat the oven to 325FRub a roasting pan with the garlic, and then coat thickly with the butter.Combine the milk and cream in a saucepan, and heat until just bout to boil Season with salt and pepper, and remove from the heat.Cut the potatoes into 1/4 inch thick rounds and arrange them in layers in the pan.

Audio Book performed by Bernadette DunneSubtitle: The Secret Life of a Critic in Disguise Well, that’s a pretty good synopsis of this memoir of Reichl’s tenure as the restaurant critic for The New York Times in the 1990s.
As a finale he had strewn plump little morsels of lobster through the rice, giving it the taste of the ocean.(Gougeres) And then I didn’t say anything else because I had taken a bite of one of the little puffs and I was concentrating on the way they simply evaporated into hot, cheesy air when my mouth closed over them.(Quenelles de brochet) Very few restaurants still make these ethereal dumplings, a marriage of air and ocean, and even fewer do them right.
Garlic and Sapphires: The Secret Life of a Critic in Disguise whetted my appetite to read more food memoirs.
Whether Ruth Reichl donned the costume of aggressive Emily, beatnik Brenda, sexy Chloe, her mother or invisible Betty Jones, her accounting of her stint as food critic of the New York Times sizzled.
Lest anyone think this is a cream puff of a book, it isn't.
Reichl candidly discussed how she deceived herself about her reasons for becoming a food critic.
This isn't one of those books that uses recipes in order to fill space; they come naturally.
I'd never read her Times reviews, so this was my first time experiencing any of her writing.
I looked forward to my subway rides while I was reading this, and I found myself almost blushing while reading some of her more Porn-ish reviews of food.
I loved every bit of the food critic/ dressing up in disguise/ new york times culture stuff, but could have done without much of the personal crap about discovering herself through her characters and what a good mom she is.
I'm sure she is a good mom, it's just a very short book, and I would have liked to hear more about the other stuff.
My favorite of Ruth Reichl's food memoirs. In this one she takes the job as restaurant critic for the New York Times. To avoid being recognized she creates disguises to use when she dines out. It is interesting to hear how people react to her as an old homely looking lady and then as herself when she visits the same restaurant again. I loved it and hope that she writes a new book in the future.
I personally find it absurd when people try to make sense of their lives by fitting the totally random and haphazard things that befall us into some kind of narrative arc, but it makes for more compelling reading than an honest recounting, and not many people can do it as well as Reichl.
Reichl tries to make the point that her costumes are a more explicit form of what we all do at fine restaurants anyway, which is to play the part of a diner, perhaps of a connoisseur, or at least of someone who expects table service.
One major thing that was lacking was any photo documentation of Reichl's costumes!
But, like most things about the way I live my life, the way I dress and groom myself is methodical.
I mean, I like eating.
Like eating in restaurants, in fact.
But just the fact that this is a memoir by the former New York Times restaurant critic would not be enough to pull me into reading an adult title*.
Reichl introduces the book by describing how she became aware that, as the NYT restaurant critic, she would be stalked.
She wanted to review restaurants as they would be experienced by EVERYONE, not just VIPs. And so, she took to wearing disguises.Watching her construct each persona was fun, especially for a former thespian.
That's the one thing I learned when I lived there in 1998.When Reichl came to the New York Times as restaurant critic in the nineties, however, the paper was not known for reviewing the incredibly delicious (and incredibly affordable) ethnic restaurants that are thick upon the ground.
Her insistence on reviewing fine sushi bar and noodle shops alongside classic French cuisine was only the one hurdle; the superior service she received when recognized as the Time's restaurant critic was more harmful than even the paper's entrenched policies.
This snappy account of Ruth Reichl's six years as The New York Times restaurant critic won't disappoint those looking for an insider's view of reviewing.
After Reichl was pegged as the new critic for the Times on her flight to New York by the woman sitting next to her, she decided she would be needing some disguises.
Sometimes I like Ruth, sometimes all the foie gras and discerning taste gets to be a bit much for me.
A little long but otherwise delightful.Oh, how this book made me wish I could just put anything & everything into my mouth & swallow it.
Even if you're not a foodie, hearing Reichl dish about the New York Times, famous chefs, famous restaurants, dinner companions, & NYC in the 90s is a treat.
And she shares recipes that just about anyone could follow.Beyond that is her spiritual journey, as she trundles through New York in multiple disguises, trying to eat as an unknown patron.
With each wig she puts on, Reichl uncovers something about herself she was only vaguely aware of before.
I like Ruth Reichl, I like what she's done with Gourmet, I like her non-elitist attitude, I like her food writing, and by all accounts, she's a genuinely nice person.
But while she has a golden tongue for tasting, she has a wooden ear for dialogue.
While her adventures in disguise have been confirmed by outside sources, they seem impossible to believe because her characterization is so wooden and awful.
Heck, I almost questioned whether she actually had a son.So, although I hold Reichl in high esteem, I cannot, in good conscience, give this book higher than three stars.
I guess this is how food critics feel!
I mentioned that in a small country like NZ, I was sure that the reviewers were often "made" by the restaurants concerned & thus received preferential treatment - so often the critiques of us amateurs were of more value when choosing a place to dine.
While this book did remind me of some of the offhand service I received as a teenage diner in NZ in the 70's (tipping was virtually unheard of in NZ then & pensioners & young women were seen by wait staff as the most unlikely to tip of all!) a lot of it was of no interest to me.But, just as Reichl is stating to appear egotistical & obnoxious,(view spoiler)[her husband pulls her up on it!
So interesting!
Ruth was the food critic for the New York Times in the 90's.
She had such mouth-watering descriptions of the food itself and such insights into the restaurant world not to mention the people, it was like a foodies tour through New York.
Even though I felt like I was with her in the restaurants she was reviewing, I anxiously awaited her actual review and the stars she would bestow the restaurants.
The additional background of family and friends humanized her story even more.
The audio was narrated by Bernadette Dunne and she was fabulous!!
I like food. I like books. Combined, they are a match made in Heaven. Although Reichl's writing was utter food-porn, it left me ravenous (which isn't necessarily a bad thing!!) I enjoyed this quite a bit, but much preferred her work of fiction, Delicious.
Okay, thanks.This book is 1-part meditation on fame and pretentiousness, 1-part hilariously delicious food writing, 1-part love letter to NYC, and 1-part costume/identity crisis.
So this is the story of Ruth Reichl, a NY native who was the food critic for the LA Times.
She starts wearing costumes to go to restaurants, and compares the service - what does a poorly dressed, meek woman experience at this restaurant - and then Ruth contrasts this with the experience of the NY TIMES FOOD CRITIC at the same restaurant(when she goes as herself).
There's quite a bit of introspection that occurs around this, and as a therapist/social worker/people watcher and studier, I enjoyed how Ruth described this "epiphany."* I liked the inclusion of some of her columns from the NYT.* I liked the descriptions of some of the food that she ate."What the fuck did I just read?"* The fact that I haven't eaten the majority of the foods she talked about in Garlic and Sapphires kind of made a lot of the descriptions useless.
*shrug*)* Prior to reading this book, I wasn't even (consciously) aware that there are restaurants so pricey and "classy" that prices aren't even listed on the menu.* Wine.
As she says in the book, for many people the occasional visit to an upscale restaurant is as much about the theatre of it all as it is about the food, and to be ignored in favour of more obviously affluent people isn't right.At one point she wrote a one star review for a popular restaurant, one that had previously garnered four stars, and the next day she checked her voicemail to find it full of angry responses from readers.
There's a recipe for Gougères (cheesy puffs essentially) that I'm really interesting in trying.While the disguise routine started to get a bit old for me halfway through the book, her writing kept me going.
I think the reason Garlic and Sapphires is better is that it's only barely about Reichl, and where it is it's not really about her as a person or about her life.
Everything else was "I chose this wig and this outfit for this reason, ate at this restaurant where they treated me poorly because they didn't know I was Somebody with a capital S, used the following 87 adjectives to describe each course, published the following review, was insufferable to my husband and not often present for my child."Based on my feelings about Reichl as a person from reading her first two books, I'd have given this one 2 stars.
She creates a myriad of disguises to avoid special treatment at the dining establishments she reviews so she gets a "true" experience - but this book ends up being about the delights of disguises and ends up celebrating her own self-satisfied quasi-ingenuity.
She clearly has some kind of chip on her shoulder - I have ideas about why but what remains are unflattering portraits of the people who inhabit the world of "the paper of record" and high cuisine.
When I started listening to the audio book, I didn’t pay attention to who was the narrator; just that I liked her and that she was exactly what I would imagine Ruth Reichl to sound like.
She’s one of my favorite authors, but maybe I’m feeling Reichl overload after reading two of her books in a row.
It was a learning experience for her as well, how she realized (well actually it took her husband and a friend to point out) that she was becoming the characters she pretended to be, and becoming not such a nice person.Garlic and Sapphires, 3 stars.
I just finished reading 'Tender at the Bone' by Ruth Reichl last week, and I didn’t care for it.
Unfortunately, I still so intensely disliked the author that it colored everything about 'Garlic and Sapphires' for me.Ruth Reichl was still the same pain in the ass, only now she was insufferable when it came to food.
I felt so sorry for her poor friend Claudia, who got dragged to random hole-in-the-wall restaurants against her will, was forced to eat things like sushi until she admitted that it tasted good, and was embarrassed by Ruth’s extremely rude & demanding behavior in restaurants (which Ruth justified because she was “mirroring” her mother, and that’s how her mother would have acted.
I read this book a week after the 2016 election.I read it when I was feeling pretty despondent.
I normally read two novels a week.
I liked not only Reichl's unpretentious approach to food, but her insistence that establishments treat their customers well.
I liked her belief in the power of food to bring people together, overturn biases, open doors.
And I liked the recipes.This is an honest, entertaining read that transcends its main subject.
It made me feel a little bit better, as good books and food can—and even if this was only for a brief while, that still counts for something.
This book was a new topic for me- I have never read a book about the life of a restaurant critic.
I learned something new about The New York Times, restaurant critiquing, and upscale food (like foie gras).
I was interested in reading the actual review that appeared in the Times but found it redundant since it contained much of the info she had just stated in the chapter preceding the review.I am so hard on the Deseret News restaurant critic Stacy Kratz.
I can not stand reading her reviews of Sam's Club's hot dogs and every kids meal item in the valley.
It's taken me a good few months to read this book as I've been dipping in & out of it for probably going on a year.
While I never considered giving up on it, it didn't grip me enough to read more than a few paragraphs or a chapter at a time.
To me it lacked the charm & wit that was in  "Tender at the Bone" , I found it quite ponderous at times & repetitive with meals appearing twice - "as it was eaten" & then a copy of the review.
The food descriptions on the whole left me unmove
While I never considered giving up on it, it didn't grip me enough to read more than a few paragraphs or a chapter at a time.
, I found it quite ponderous at times & repetitive with meals appearing twice - "as it was eaten" & then a copy of the review.
The food descriptions on the whole left me unmoved with Reichl using an excess of supalatives yet coming over rather passionless about the subject.
Even the characterisations Reichl took on lacked quirkiness & things often felt a bit flat.Overall, not a bad read but certainly not the witty tale with mouth-watering descriptions I was expecting.
