https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1402352.The_Layton_Court_Mystery
Anthony Berkeley was, at this time, embarking on a long career as a crime author, which would see him become one of the founding members of the Detection Club; whose history has recently been written in the excellent, “The Golden Age of Murder,” by Martin Edwards.
In this novel, it is clear that Anthony Berkeley wants to get away with the idea of the detective hero being infallible and so he tries hard to make Roger Sheringham a more human investigator – he makes rash judgements, his deductions are often incorrect and he makes mistakes.
It appears to be a typical suicide - or is it a locked room mystery?
When Roger Sheringham was invited to spend some time at Layton Court by Victor Stanworth, whom he barely knew, little did he know he was going to stumble upon a first class murder mystery.
Assisting him is Alexander Grierson, an old time friend of Roger and a newly engaged man.
Will he concentrate on the murder or would he prefer to spend time with his fiancee?
The cast of characters are typical for an English country house mystery (I believe that should be genre of its own!).
Granted, this was Berkeley's first novel, and granted that summer's heat has just arrived, making me lethargic and uninterested in much.
It's been called "witty", but after the first few chapters the style began to pall on me.
Style can't carry a novel, much less a mystery.
The business with the lattice windows had already been done, as well, by at least Christie.
Berkely is not Christie; indeed not.
And we won't even mention him in the same conversation with Miss Sayers!I understand Berkeley has several novels to his credit.
This is a mystery where the reader is kept informed of all of the evidence found by the "gentleman sleuth". I still wasn't quite able to solve the murder completely, but did figure out a few things before he did. But my favorite lines in the book were: "Shall I hack some ham for you, or do you feel like a boiled egg? You do? It's a curious feeling, isn't it?" That made me laugh out loud!
Sedikit merasa de-ja-vu ketika membaca novel ini. Sampai derajat tertentu ada kesamaan dengan Trent's Last Case, tapi dalam hal lain ceritanya cukup original. Satu hal yang ingin saya katakan pada sang tokoh detektif, Roger Serringham : "How can you not see it, you old blighter!"Well, there's that. Full review menyusul.
Sheringham deserves at least to be as well known as Dorothy Sayers' Lord Peter Wimsey and Ngaio Marsh's Lord Roderick Alleyn.In The Layton Court Mystery, which first introduced Roger Sherinham to the world, Roger is invited to a house party in the country at the request of his cousin, Alec, who will also be a guest there.
Berkeley never takes Roger too seriously, and you'll find yourself chuckling at Roger's boundless supply of theories -- and conceit.
Warning: The Layton Court Mystery first appeared in 1925, and the novel bears the crude sensibilities of that era, including one instance of anti-Semitism and a general condescending air toward the working classes.
This book was extremely slow and I was able to guess who did it less than 25% in. While Berkeley is considered a "English golden age of mysteries" author like Agatha Christie and Dorothy Sayers, this book was a disappointment to me.
Pues bien, la última lectura ha sido "El Misterio de Layton Court" del escritor británico Anthony Berkeley, este señor formó parte de la gran edad dorada de la novela de detectives de principios del siglo XX más concretamente perteneció al "London Detection Club" que fundaron la propia Christie, Chesterton o Dorothy Sayers por citar los más sobresalientes.
La novela es un ejemplo de honestidad, no oculta nada, y puedes seguir perfectamente los razonamientos en una trama que, por otra parte, está perfectamente hilada, y desde luego no tiene los "deus ex machina" de muchas novelas actuales.
In corso d'opera ho scoperto che avevo già letto questo libro nell'edizione Giallo Mondadori, dove aveva il titolo "Delitto a porte chiuse".Questa seconda lettura mi è risultata più gradita della prima.
Ho capito meglio certi meccanismi del delitto e il tipo di 'camera chiusa' proposta.Anche il finale l'ho apprezzato di più.
Tenuto conto che il libro è del '25, quando Dame Agatha aveva appena iniziato a scrivere i suoi gialli, il finale proposto da Berkeley mantiene una sua originalità e anzi potrebbe esser stato lui a suggerire alla Dame un certo tipo di colpevole che compare in diversi libri della Christie.Fra l'altro fu proprio Berkeley il vero fondatore del Detection Club.
Now that I've finished it, I must admit The Layton Court Mystery is well-told and well-clued, with many charms provided by the interplay between Anthony Sheringham and his sidekick, Alec. But it's far too long and drawn out, and would have worked much better as a novella, or even a short story. Berkeley undeniably, however, has the requisite qualities for a good detective story writer, and I'm looking forward to his later works (this was his first venture).
I say it in all modesty, but the fact is indisputable.”) It can be tedious and almost boring at times, as the human being is supposed to be exceedingly naive and slow-minded, and it also makes one wonder if they ever manage to categorize a murder as a murder, not a suicide, back then, but overall the story has a couple of quirks that cannot be guessed too early.I was a bit shocked by this bit though: “It was not until the necessity for consuming a large plateful of prunes and tapioca pudding, the two things besides Jews that he detested most in the world, …”.Looking forward to other Roger Sheringham cases, to see if he really evolved into a Sherlock Holmes kind of chap, hopefully with a more appropriate Watson…
*Special Content only on my blog, Strange and Random Happenstance during Golden Summer (May-September 2013)Because of his friend Alec, the author Roger Sheringham has been invited by Victor Stanworth to be a part of his house party at Layton Court.
Yet when I got to reading up on Berkeley I found out that The Poisoned Chocolates Case was not the first Roger Sheringham book as I had thought.
😏
Una novela de misterio y asesinato, resuelto por un "detective" nada común. Fácil de leer y te mantiene con la intriga hasta el final.
The mystery solution is stretched a little thin, but it is a fun read.
But for one of the guests, Roger Sheringham, all is not as it seems, and he begins an investigation.
The main character, Roger Sheringham, comes off as a bit of an idiot, latching onto theory after theory as to how Stanworth met his end, and I must say, I really didn't know how he was going to get serious long enough to figure the whole thing out.
However, the mystery actually turns out to be okay, although it is a bit meandering at times as Sheringham picks up then discards theory after theory.
There one shockingly offensive "joke" in which the protagonist is disappointed when he comes to the breakfast table because the two dishes being served are "the only two things Roger hated more than Jews." This is not the first offensive comment about Jews I've read from this author, but this is most casual and the fact that was intended as humorous is chilling.However - I actually thought this was a pretty good book and pretty good mystery, in terms of the plot and dialog.
Enjoyable and easy read with some good (non-racist) humor here and there.
Roger Sheringham is the guest at Layton Court when the tenant, a rich and hospitable man, commits suicide. But Roger thinks detecting would be fun, and he doesn't believe that a man like that would kill himself. Of course, Sheringham will develop into a more skilled detective, but this is still an enjoyable book if you can put yourself into a sufficiently naive 1929-ish mood. Unfortunately, there's a totally gratuitous slur directed at a particular group that is unacceptable today.
История очень даже Вах! Мне понравилось, особенно концовка и человечный характер Роджера, который строит предположения, ошибается,и в целом очень живой и непосредственный в своих поступках и выводах. Да и интрига в для детективной истории была хороша. Классический, очень приятный и занимательный английский детектив, легко читается, в паре моментов даже заставил меня улыбнуться.
The story was slow, but it gives you all the details about the investigation, so you can try to guess who was the murderer (I was able to!). It's so surprising when the killer identity is revealed by Roger.
The first novel by A. Berkeley.With a good locked room.A little masterpeace.
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
Summer read, perfect for a train ride.
Novelist and amateur sleuth Roger frequently isn't right, but his self-assurance and keen eyes and mind make him a joy to follow around.
