https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4988.Fates_Worse_Than_Death
I read this book all the way through on June 6 2007, in the lobby of the Executive West hotel in Louisville, KY while my husband took his radiology boards. It was as if Kurt Vonnegut himself was seated beside me and had spent that day with me. He made me laugh, he made me think and he took my mind off of the matter at hand. It was one of the bright sunny, wonderful days of one's life and I am so happy that Kurt was part of it.
This is Vonnegut’s last in the trio of “autobiographical collages,” which is a canny way of presenting various nonfiction materials without having to impose a structure on the book.
This is the most shambolic of the three—firstly, Fates Worse Than Death is divided into conventional chapters, so the reader has no contents table to peruse the various speeches Kurt reproduces here from recent public speaking events.
And the book is mostly reproduced public speeches, most of which are entertaining and erudite in his typical style, but some of which become tiresome.
Those wishing to dip a toe into his nonfiction try Palm Sunday.

Дори нещо повече — ние се гордеем с тях, възприемаме ги като символ на национална гордост, по подобие на Камбаната на свободата.Може би появата на планетата Земя е предварително програмирана, а крайната цел на програмата е да пръснем тази планета на хиляди късчета.
По тази причина всички ние трябва да служим на своето общество, чиито нужди са съвсем видими и познаваеми.
Това, което не мога да понасям в церемониалните проповеди, е изхвърлянето от страна на повечето оратори, които твърдят, че вярата в божествеността на Исус е път към ПОБЕДАТА.Какво е смъртта?
As I work my way through his books, I find that I love his speeches and essays far more than his fiction.
I absolutely loved this book - perhaps more than Palm Sunday.
There are too many passages to quote but I'll note a few:"We were in hell, thanks to technology which was telling us what to do, instead of the other way around.
"So we now know for certain that there are no potential human enemies anywhere who are anything but human beings almost exactly like ourselves.
They love their children.
They think like their neighbors.
I enjoyed this book gosh darn too much.to quote:"Dah dah dah dah dah dah dah dah dah,Dah dah dah dah dah dah dah dah dah!Dah dah dah dah dah,Dah dah dah dah dah!Dah dah dah dah dah fucking cunt."
3.5 stars. Vonnegut is always worth reading. Solid, not stellar.
And that those works are great - he has some unique and interesting ideas, and he has the ability to wrap a funny, compelling, and meaningful story around them.I eventually stumbled upon the group of Vonnegut's publications, like this one, which feature him speaking in his own voice, presenting his experiences and ideas first hand.
Reading his fiction, you can just tell that there's a very interesting man behind the words.
But, when those thoughts themselves are somewhat lackluster, the reading experience loses a bit of it's appeal.
Now that the thrill of hearing from Vonnegut himself has somewhat worn off for me, the thoughts he has to offer here are mostly just negative, and often uninteresting.

It's one to dip into rather than read cover to cover. A collection of essays and speeches unsurprisingly there is a bit of repetition. But as with all Vonnegut what he says is worth hearing, warm, funny, bewildered and cynical yet hopeful. Often in the same paragraph. I didn't alwAys agree, but I always enjoyed reading this.And the world's dirtiest limericks joke made me giggle on the train
This is Vonnegut's third nonfiction collection, and covers the 80's. A weaker effort; I thought there was a lot of padding in the book, Vonnegut is grumpier (and seriously depressed), and there is a bit too much name-dropping of his famous author friends. His shtick is starting to get old. But in fairness he admits all of this in the book (except the name-dropping).
Brilliant.
I will say that it takes a decent understanding of Vonnegut's previous works and his life story to fully grasp the context in which this work is written.
I will keep saying that a hundred times.This book gives the most excellent argument for gun control I have ever read, and presents well-formed ideas on environmentalism and religion.
It is indeed a somber work, but one that gets you thinking and is so excellently written.
This is an insightful read and set apart from his novels and short stories, because he is so self-aware in presenting an autobiographical collage of his life.
A sequel to one of Vonnegut’s earlier essay collection Fates Worse Than Death gives a glimpse into Kurt’s life in the mid 90’s and explores how he was feeling after the death of his best friend and his feeling that his life was coming into the final stages and what he thought that meant.There’s lots of good stuff here for Vonnegut fanatics like myself, back story on novels, people in his life that inspired characters in his novels like Billy Pilgrim.
This hodge-podge of commencement speeches, magazine articles and, of all things, sermons, does have the virtue of the intros, extros and commentary written by Vonnegut especially for this volume in an attempt to hold together what they (his publishers) would have the reader believe is an "autobiographical collage" (2.0).Vonnegut himself didn't seem entirely convinced and, in the opinion of this Vonnegut fan, this book foreshadows what was to come after the author's death; the relentless publication, in one book after another, of anything and everything the man ever scribbled on to a piece of paper and left lying around.
His publishers knew that.
"Q: What is your idea of happiness?A: Imagining that something somewhere wants us to like it here."There is, quite honestly, almost nothing I wouldn't do to have a conversation with Kurt Vonnegut.
I don't know why or how, but I love every single thing he wrote.
I don't really know.
I also don't know how to review this book.
I wouldn't read this if you aren't a big fan of his; I don't think this book could be truly enjoyed if you don't genuinely like Vonnegut and his style.
However, if you are a fan, please read this.
This was amazing. The scope and the content were sublime in their conception and I was thoroughly entertained, educated, and satisfied. I cannot find fault with this book. This came at such a time where Vonnegut was reflecting on the nature of his life, his work, and the planet. Overall, a necessary read for fans of Vonnegut. I suggest reading his fictional works, many, before diving into this one as it adds more perspective and meaning to the overall whole. Nonetheless, a thrilling and mesmerizing read.
This would make a terrible introduction for readers new to Vonnegut. I'm a huge fan, I enjoyed this disjointed collage of musings. It would be fair to assume Vonnegut has a cynical tone throughout this book but the more I've come to understand him, I read it as a total lack of confidence in his perspective, which I appreciate and find refreshing. I finished this book several weeks ago and have had to dig back in to find a passage here and there that was spinning around in my head.
Overall, this wasn't as strong as his other "autobiographical collages," a la Palm Sunday. However, this does contain one of my all-time favorite Vonnegut passages about a child learning how to play with the universe.
9/10. This book is almost 30 years old yet it still speaks the truth through humor. Anytime I read Vonnegut, I wonder what he would have to say about the current state of his the world. Like Twain, he lives on through his moralized writings.
Rather dated cynicism from Kurt Vonnegut - a good writer but dousing everything with negativity.
A bitter, often clumsy, subpar Vonnegut book oddly salvaged in the final act by a glorious appendix.
Vonnegut's autobiographical collage is as entertaining, if not more, than his fiction. Witty and heartfelt.
As with Vonnegut's novels, this one jumps around from subject to subject. But, it is highly entertaining, nonetheless.
this one was a little dry. still Kurt though, he’s a beautiful soul.
Not as good as his other writings.
Like most Vonnegut it's rambly, profound, and the intimate stories he tells about his life are incredibly insightful. Easy and engaging, it was a pleasure to read. Highly recommended to the karass of hardcore Vonnegut fans.
И краски, и пистолеты навевают владельцам мысли о странных, а возможно, замечательных вещах, которые с их помощью можно сделать.)==========А Олгрен, день за днем и год за годом непосредственно наблюдая американцев, подвергшихся дегуманизации, утверждал примерно вот что: "Послушайте-ка, те люди, которым вы так сострадаете, что у вас сердце обливается кровью, большей частью действительно народ тупой и озлобленный.
Вот таким и был Хемингуэй.==========Но невыдуманные боевые эпизоды сильно упали для американцев в цене после второй мировой войны, когда нас миллион за миллионом посылали в Европу, а вернувшись, мы уже не нуждались в Хемингуэе, чтобы представить себе, что такое война.==========
"According to the American Academy of Pediatrics, the average American child watches 18,000 TV murders before it graduates from high school."I share a substantial portion of my worldview with Kurt Vonnegut so when I read his books I must feel like the huge majority of Internet users who read only the stuff that they agree with: we crave confirmation that we are so very right.
Vonnegut says "I like to think that Jesus said in Aramaic, 'Ye shall respect one another.'" Anyway, Fates, objectively, is not an above average work, yet I almost love it because I respect the author's intentions.Two and a half stars.
“Our century hasn’t been as free with words of wisdom as some others, I think, because we were the first to get reliable information about the human situation.” (110)“If Western Civilization were a person, we would be directing it to the nearest meeting of War Preparers Anonymous.” (135) And yet, “Should addicts of any sort hold high offices in this or any other country?
Stop preparing for war and start dealing with your real problems.4.
Stop thinking your grandchildren will be OK no matter how wasteful or destructive you may be, since they can go to a nice new planet on a spaceship.
