https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1057006.La_premi_re_enqu_te_de_Maigret
It’s 1913, and Maigret has been with the police for four years.
He’s now secretary to the patrician and condescending police Superintendent Maxime Le Bret.
Then Maigret finds evidence of some very funny business with the wealthy and powerful Gendreau-Balthazar family, who happen to be friends of Le Bret’s.
Maigret, unsurprisingly, doesn’t let Richard Gendreau-Balthazar’s wealth, prominence, or sarcasm keep him for getting to the bottom of a crime.
And we get to see what created the Maigret we all know and love.
So with the 30th book in his Maigret series, Georges Simenon presents: Maigret's First Case.It is not just an interesting insight into a young detective at 26 years old, newly married living in Paris.

Maigret’s First Case explores the early days of an iconic literary sleuth.In pre-World War I Paris, Jules Maigret, a future Chief Inspector, toils away as an assistant in one of the city’s quieter neighborhood precincts.
Contrasting the young Maigret’s inflexible morality against the worldly considerations of his colleagues allowed the author to showcase his hero in a good light, while also planting the seeds of his practicality.The case itself was, perhaps, not entirely exciting, but was enlivened by a cast of well-drawn characters whom Simenon brought to life with economy and attention to smart details.
Simenon practiced an admirable economy that kept the plot moving, while still allowing for some well-deployed character beats.
A 2018 re-read. It's as good as ever!A splendid Maigret, based in 1913 when Maigret is a young junior policeman in a district office. His first independent case shows him learning the skills we see so much of later, a naive and reckless series of events too, and a nice picture of his early married life. He also learns the realities of dealing with the rich, powerful and well-connected. Splendid.
Miljöerna (Paris) var bäst.
I just finished "Maigret's First Case" by Georges Simenon. It was originally published in 1949, and it was a masterpiece. If you have ever read any Maigret novels, then this one will give you the background for Maigret's career from a detective to an inspector. Beautifully crafted. This was his first case and Maigret, at this time in his career, gives you insight on his deductive powers in this murder mystery. He learns how the law works in a society of the elites. You also get insight into his relationship with his wife. I truly enjoyed the novel. -Bob K.
Well written, slightly nuanced mystery about future Inspector Maigret's first case solving a complex who dunnit. This book combines society and class privilege and expectations, early 20th century Paris life, police politics, sexual tension and a good mystery into a slight, enjoyable read!
Ich bin generell in Bann gezogen von Krimis. Mein Vater liest immer sehr gerne Maigret und irgendwann hat er mir dann auch eins geschenkt. Es ist sehr einfach geschrieben und doch auch detailliert. Es ist eine ungewöhnliche Art von Krimi, da die Spannung fehlt oder nur leicht bemerkbar wird.
Especially as this one, #30 in the series, is a flashback to Maigret's early days in the police force and, as such, provides an insight into how his particular way of working a case came about.One of the joys of reading a book during a particular reading challenge like Paris in July is that it encourages me to adjust the lens through which I experience the story.
In this street of private mansions and expensive apartment buildings, the Vieux Calvados looked like a country inn that had been forgotten when Paris spread.
Part of the enjoyment of the Maigret novels is the atmosphere: Paris noir.
The gimmick of Maigret’s First Case is that it returns to Maigret as a young man before the First World War...therefore the noir atmosphere has gone.
But the Maigret novels are often concerned with class: Maigret the lower middle class police officer investigating the crimes of the rich (and maybe the bowler hat is a signifier of class position) and this comes to the centre of Maigret’s First Case.
As Maigret investigates the case, he has to balance his sense of right and his sense of reality.
Maigrets första fall lär vara en av hans senaste böcker - vilket kan förklara, varför boken som först gavs ut 1949 ändå verkar skildra ett Paris från förra sekelskiftets början.
Den sägs också vara en av hans bästa böcker, vilket innebär att jag inte kommer läsa några flera - kort och klurig, visst har den underhållningsvärde, men den känns gubbig och omodern, ta t ex en riktigt mossig kvinnosyn.
We meet Maigret in 1913 at the start of his career - a rookie policeman, newly married, keen to make his mark.
He has a menial job - as Secretary to a posh Chief Inspector, but is very frustrated, and wants a transfer to the ranks of the crime team.
One night he gets his break when a bar musician on his walk home spots a crime in progress at the house of a Parisian business family.
But he has so impressed his superiors that promotion and the much desired job transfer follow.He we see a youthful Maigret - impetuous, resentful, making mistakes.
I haven't read a Maigret story since reading one in French at school but I enjoyed the recent television adaptations which prompted me to pick this up. I enjoyed it very much. It's not the first book in the Maigret series but a 'flashback' account of his first efforts at serious detection and is both entertaining and engaging. The translation is so good that you are never reminded that it wasn't originally written in English.
One of Simenon’s better, both in terms of plot and in the writing. I was with Maigret all the way as he investigated his first case and found himself let down by his superiors who wanted to avoid a scandal in a leading Parisian family. Maigret’s initiation into the conflict between idealism and reality.
Jag ville läsa en Maigret, eftersom jag tror att jag faktiskt aldrig läst någon, och började med den som heter ”Maigrets första fall”. Det var nog fel val, den verkar inte vara den som skrevs först. Förmodligen vore det bäst att börja med den i stället, för att blir förtjust i karaktären innan man läser om hur han var som yngre. Jag får testa med en annan bok.
Great to read the first case Maigret solved. The rich upper class cover up a murder and his boss gives him his first case as he thinks he will bungle it. Of course Maigret works out the motive and the cover up helpless to get justice. Lots of drinking, atmospheric descriptions of Paris in 1913 and some background to his past.
A very solid crime novel, heavy on the human element, that says a great deal about society; how things are structured so that the sewage flows downhill. Maigret, a idealistic cop on his first case, has more than just a crime to figure out.
It's just right
Credo fosse la prima volta che leggevo (in realtà ascoltavo) un Maigret...mi è piaciuto molto, ne prevedo tanti altri nella mia vita.
Solid story revealing the start of Inspector Maigret’s career. An easy read. Not one of the best Maigret stories but fans of the French detective will find it worth reading.
Il libro racconta gli inizi di Maigret, quando non era ancora commissario capo, anche se in realtà non è stato scritto per primo, ma solo nel 1949. Insomma un prequel.
Good but basic thriller describing Maigret first experience.
It doesn’t have the Noir of Raymond Chandler, nor the whimsy of Agatha Christie and certainly not the edge of your seat thrills that we see in TV policier Line of Duty.But while the Maigret novels were never going to be in line for le prix goncourt, I definitely enjoyed the book and found its French reasonably easy to read.
This was a more conventional Maigret tale and in some ways I think I preferred it and look forward to reading more of them.The action of this novel starts when Maigret, on night duty, receives a visit from a young musician who has heard a woman crying for help and the firing of a gun.
Splendid. Maigret/Simenon fans will cherish this one, which portrays the young Maigret on his first case, in which is clumsiness and genius are both on display. He and Madame Maigret are newly wed. I would suggest that readers new to the enormous Maigret series read a few first, and (if you like him/them) then read this one. Simenon remade the genre of police procedural to suit himself--and us. Truly original. Maigret's compulsive smoking (pipe), frequent eating and drinking, and brooding infuse the novels with compelling psychological core.
Simenon reste égal à lui-même, un maître de l'écriture, de l'atmosphère, des états d'âme et un observateur attentif et bienveillant de l'humanité. On n'est jamais déçu.
Originally serialized in 1949 in the pages of Point of View/Images of the World magazine and released in novel form later that year, Margaret's First Case is the origin story of Georges Simeon's famous sleuth, Inspector Jules Maigret.
With no one else available to respond at the moment, Maigret responds, thus, beginning his first case.The story shows the origins of many staples of the Inspector Maigret series, such as the antique stove in the police office, the banter between Maigret and his wife, and Maigret's unique approach to investigating a case.
Although it was written in 1949 and is the thirtieth in the series, it harks back to Maigret's first case, when he was a 26-year-old novice in 1913.
He is drawn into a murder involving a wealthy but secretive family and begins his own pursuit of the case independent of the police authorities, as encouraged by his boss.
As is all too frequent, we learn that protection of the rich and powerful is far more important than getting at the truth, and even the police abet the criminals in order to remain in good standing with this corrupt family.
Quando è andato a vedere cosa stesse succedendo, un bel pugno in faccia dal domestico lo convince ad andare alla polizia.
Maigret lo segue e scopre che la famiglia in questione è la Gendreau-Balthazar, magnati del caffè, oltre che amici intimi del suo capo.Le Bret gli permette di fare indagini, però come "privato cittadino".
Lo stile è sempre di alto livello, però la costruzione dei personaggi mi è sembrata forzosa e le descrizioni non curate come al solito.
Non è uno dei migliori Simenon, tuttavia ho potuto passare una serata piacevole, in compagnia di questo giovane e baffuto ispettore.
I'm not sure all the loose ends got tied up, and I didn't find the ending satisfying.
But this isn't Hercule Poirot, it's Maigret, so loose ends are not the point.
Maigret got some attention, but I have to admit I prefer the older, more mature and confident Maigret.
So I am very much looking forward to more of these new editions by Penguin if they provide new material and hope I don't end up with repeats already on my shelves but with different titles.
