https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10859323-inheritance-cycle-4-book-hard-cover-boxed-set-eragon-eldest-brisingr
I made the mistake of watching the movie "Eragon" before I read any of the books.
After reading just the first book you really realize what a hack job they did on the movie.
I couldn't put it down after I started reading, I would just get lost in the world of Alagaesia, that Eragon and his charasmatic dragon Saphira lived,fought and survived in.
I would recommend this series of books to anyone that has an interest in fantasy stories, medieval times,sword fighting, dragons, elves/dwarves & magic/folklore of elves/dwarves, or anything relating to any of these topics.
This story begins with me as probably an 11-year-old picking up a copy of a blue book somewhere or other and beginning an odyssey of love-hate.Listen.
Like 'em or not, and whether or not he lifted the story from Star Wars, this guy had written four tomes by the time he was I think no older than 28.
I can deny this all I want, but now I am officially coming out and saying it: I like these books.
This book is the most beautiful thing I have ever held in my hands.
Eragon starts off slowly.
Other plus-points:⚫The description of the battles⚫Arya and Eragon's sweet, realistic love (the realism is weird, considering Arya is an elf and Eragon a human)⚫Oromir's lessons and his teachings⚫The shocks and gasps caused by some extremely intelligent twists in the blockAll in all, once you get over the initial bagginess and delve into the magic of these books, you'll never really get over it.
I have cried and laughed with these books.
They're the loveliest things.
Some very marvelously delivered concepts, a good pace (in books 1-2), overall an interesting and ambitious feat for such a young writer.
Sadly, poorly finished, with some VERY roughly formulated sections that needed more.
Over all, too long of a series (1 book to many).
The end was especially painful.
Paolini left me kicking the dust of Alegasia off my feet as he took such a long time getting around to the last page of the 4th book.
His next writing undertaking will qualify or disqualify him as a serious writer in my eyes.
Is he a true talent?
Absolutely awesome books, but I am really tired of waiting for the next book. By the time the fourth book comes out I will have to read the entire series over again to remember what happened. Why make the fans wait soooo long? I don't get it!
I was going to introduce this review by giving a quick synopsis of the series, but saying something like, “The Inheritance Cycle is the beautifully woven story of a boy and his dragon” was not something that I was interested in doing.
I’m still giving this series 4 stars, and they are still quite near the top of my list as some of the best books that I ‘ve ever read, so it will definitely be worth your time – trust me.
Eragon finds a strange rock in the woods.
It isn't long before the 'rock' hatches and Eragon learns that he will be the next Dragon rider.
Eragon also sparked a lot of dragon drawings, and currently I'm painting an elf (so it's affected my art as well).Antony: Once again, I read these books because of my sister.
I always loved Saphira, and I thought that the elves and their culture was really fascinating.
The movie was so bad that Marija and I had to stop watching it about 15 minutes in because it was so wrong.
It was just so wrong.
I stayed with this story simply because I had already started it when I found my love of reading fantasy.
I do like the concept of the story, even though as many others have said, that it seems to be a collection of other stories.
That honestly doesn't bother me .
He twisted them and made a story from his imagination using what has obviously influenced him.
Again that doesn't bother me.
What bothers me is how he explains himself before any character does anything .
Everything is G rated and that doesn't bother me since I knew that going in.
Great series.
Many books or movies make you say, "That was stupid.
Why did they do that?" I never thought that during this series.
Sometimes I would think, "I would try xyz," and then that would happen.
Again, like most fantasy stories, you end up thinking, "Why didn't they use magic to do xyz?" In the Inheritence Cycle, magic has rules and so you are never left complaining "Why didn't they ...".
The story is well written and involved and would probably take someone older to fully grasp and appreciate it.
I would even consider buying the books and reading it aloud.
[Update: I did buy them.]
This is one of those fantasy worlds that draws the reader in so well that they are left with a feeling of loss when it finally comes to an end.
Rather than aching for an answer to a big question upon finishing one of the books, the reader simply wants the next book so that they can remain within the world that Paolini created.
This is the type of story that can be read over and over, with new details to find each time that weren’t apparent before.
Everything is connected miraculously well and the intricate web of stories cannot be truly appreciated in a single reading.
I started reading eragon around the time the second part came out I think because I figured that the last part would have to come out soon.
I was enticed with alagaesia and eragon and the idea of dragonriders; toss in a little bit of magic and youve got me captivated!
I was however a bit disappointed by the second part until Eragon was "transformed" into an elve; afterwards it got better again.
I have rarely ever felt so connected with characters as I have in this series.purchase these loveable works of art you will not regret it I can promise you that!!
This is a well written fantasy book.
I read this series when I was quite young, and to this day, I still keep rereading it.
What attracted me about this was that it was about dragons, and this book really shaped what genre I read in.
Although not the most famous of novels, this is definitely a good read.
Although the first time you read from Roran's perspective, it may be a bit dull, but his story is as captivating, if not more, than Eragon's.
If you like fantasy, you should definitely read this series.
I still read the third, simply to finish the series.
The fourth book I did not read until nearly two years ago.
He's the only character in the book that I still feel anything for at all.
The rest of the series devolved into a contrived, sci-fi fantasy mash up mess, especially when, in the final book, Paolini starts making Doctor Who references.
As a rule, I'm fond of Doctor Who, but I find that sort of thing to be disrupting to reader immersion and completely unimaginative.
All the same, it's an enjoyable one time read.
I really enjoyed this series.
It was well written and thought out, and I especially like that things didn't necessarily go where you thought they would.
The characters were engaging and the world was fully established.
It seemed like the author wanted to give them equal time on the stage if that makes sense.The bittersweet ending was Tolkeinesque, without seeming TOO similar.
I loved the mechanics of magic in this world and how well thought out it was.
It made it both powerful, but limited enough that the characters had struggle.
I definitely recommend this series.
ok,so I watched the movie based on the first novel I liked it and I wanted more but then I realized 
An excellent read for anyone who loves magic and dragons.I received the first book in this series as a gift from my daughter.
She knew of my love for dragons, magic, and reading thinking that I would enjoy it.
After reading the first book, I was lucky and the second was already published.
I devoured the pages and eagerly waited for more.
With Brisingr, I was not disappointed.
I loved it, and as the author himself has stated, there will be more to come.
Until that day comes, I will continue to enjoy these books.
This series of books drew me in and holds a place in my heart since it it is my favorite book series that I've read. A poor farm boy Eragon finds what he believes to be a blue stone. What he did not expect however that it's actually a dragon egg and Eragon takes up the legendary mantle of the Dragon Riders. Once you start reading you don't want to stop. I recommend this book to anyone who loves fantasy books.
When a series can draw me in as emotionally as this one did, I have to admit it is amazing. Paolini's use of imagery is captivating and the way in which he develops his characters causes the reader to truly develop an emotional connection with each one. Now being a major Lord of the Rings and Star Wars fan, the similarities between The Inheritance Cycle and the two seemed to actually strengthen my interests in the plot. This series is a great example of a good work of fantasy.
I could go on forever about all of the positive attributes of this story! it is truly a world to discover and characters, as deep as the ocean, to get to know. There's family and traditions and cultures and languages... this is a stop eating/sleeping/functioning type of story. it has layers and facets and secrets and every time I re-read it i catch on to more. This series is a MUST for fantasy lovers!
This is absolutely my favorite series, I have read it twice so far and plan to do so again. However, I do think the ending sucked, a lot! I feel like he left open a lot he could expand upon, and I am disappointed with how it ended. It was a good ending, sure, though leaving it in such a way, you would think he has something up his sleeve, though I've seen nothing, and it's been years.
The book had a great story line and amazing character development. I enjoyed every last minute of the read. Even the some times boring talks, that felt like they would go on for eternity, were very enjoyable. Over all i think these books will be my #1 favorite for the rest of my life.
It's an amazing series, they should make one about one of Eragon's students later!!
I have read the series is amazing. Inheritance!!
One of my favoritesRead this book again after years and it was like reading it again for the first time. I loved it all over again from beginning to end.
Very long winded, really good though. Kind of a cross between Star Wars and Lord of the Rings. Fantasy but with the whole complicated family thing.
Absolutely loved this series. I fell in love with the characters and never had a moment where I was bored. I'm already looking forward to reading it again in the future
Paolinis world is magical, and unique a good read for those seeking something to compare to harry potter and whom enjoyed lotr a wonderful series
Meh, didn't feel much of a connection to the characters nor will I have the urge to pick up the books again in the future.
The BEST MAGIC from all the fantasy books I read
This was the best book of its type that I've read since The Lord of the Rings.
The story line, the characters, the epic struggle are fantastic.
The battle scenes were great and not overly drawn out, which can sometimes happen.
It's even more impressive when you consider that Christopher Paolini published the first book in the cycle when he was still a teenager.
It will stand up as one of the great, epic adventure/fantasy novels for decades to come.
For about thirty years, I used to read The Lord of the Rings ever seven years or so.
