https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/424268.Ride_the_Tiger
He makes a few brief criticisms of Heidegger, Marx and Stirner, and notes the 'new nihilism' of existentialism, and takes a good whack at Sartre.So what does Evola propose instead?
He starts with Nietzsche's view of what must come after nihilism, after God has died, and proposes his new society from there.
Instead he wants to throw out all of the changes over the past few hundred years and start again 'anew' with older traditions, a grand mystical warrior existence, 'riding the tiger'.
Evola didn't speak to modern man.
What he calls aristocrats of the soul is a man of previous eras living today.
The view of the archaic man is what aristocracy has always manifested.
From such a vantage point, our current era maybe characterized as a waste land, void of values, of beauty, of taste and of intelligence.
This is an inner practice that takes advantage of the few opportunities this era still has to offer and on higher levels even turns negatives into positives.
Those who can fully identify with modern views and "values": positive thinkers, progressive minds,Tony Robbins fans, technocrats and similar.
Julius Evola's analysis and diagnosis of the modern world in "Ride The Tiger" is very precise (unfortunately) to say the least."Riding the Tiger" in modern times (some decades after the book was written) is no doubt a grand challenge only for those few unafraid to confront modern degeneracy head-on. As Nietzsche wrote in probably his most popular quote,"What doesn't kill us makes us stronger." But as a drunken and belligerent biker once told me, "if you mess with the bull, you get the horns." A little blood here and there never hurts.
A breath of fresh air and a very interesting for those who agree with Evola. The critiques of Sartre, Nietzsche and Heidegger are well-composed and would be of interest for general philosophy readers.
Don't tell anyone I read this
At first I was bored by Evola's elaborate reflections on the necessity to turn to transcendence in one's existence, but the book got better and better as the author performed a great analysis of modern philosophy until it finally turned brilliant with his criticism of human culture and society. I may not agree with everything Evola wrote, but many of his thoughts concerning the state of modern civilisation are indeed striking and have to be taken into consideration.
Highly disapinting. The title, "A Survival Manual for Aristocrats of the Soul," is nothing more than a stupid misnomer. Nothing but reactionary drivel with Evola raging against Nietzche, Heidigger, and any other intellectual that didn't get his whole TRADITION schtick. Which is a real shame because, Revolt Against the Modern World is fucking great. Philosophy-tards might like it, anyone else more grounded in reality, like myself, should steer clear of this boringass work and just stick with Revolt.
Non c'è niente di più proficuo di leggere un autore con vedute diametralmente opposte alle proprie.Evola, esponente della destra tradizionalista, ma non di quella ignorante e populista (alla Salvini, per intenderci) ma di quella ancorata ai grandi Miti della Tradizione, è uno di quegli autori con cui amo confrontarmi.Non condivido gran parte della sue idee e delle sue posizioni, ma è senza dubbio una lettura culturalmente appagante
Evola is always a contrarian, which makes him an enjoyable read. In Ride the Tiger however, there is too much emphasis placed on the critique of modern nihilism, which Nietzsche did a good job of analyzing already. Evola's opinion differs to that of Nietzsche due to his emphasis on Tradition as being the projection of Truth, but the critique is sort of the same. So, I still prefer Heathen Imperialism and Men Among Ruins to this book or the Revolt.
And his world of tradition as articulated in Revolt becomes distilled into basic ways of orientation towards life and earth and the transcendent, no archaic rituals or cultural practices needed.Evola goes through stop gaps yet conceived to fill in for the lost world of tradition - existentialism, modern science, democracy/liberalism, art....
Evola's treatment of Nietzsche is quite fair, seeing him as having stated the fundamental problem of the death of God, but not finding a way out of it: starting with a latent assumption of transcendence but then failing to find it in the material here and now of this world.
A profound expansion of Nietzsche's Will to Power. Evolva here provides guidance as to how the Traditional man, the heroic aristocratic soul, should encounter the modern world as a means to Becoming. Evolva's language is at time a little dense and overly constructed, but such is also likely the result of the translation. A seminal work for those on the LHP.
This book had an air of arrogance which I haven't noticed in other Evola works, I'm not sure if this is the right word, but it felt like with every reference Evola makes to other writers be it Spengler or Nietzsche, or anyone else for that matter.
No reference was made without a neg, usually in the form of a brief anecdote, and an entirely subjective critique of why that person was wrong.
There were a lot of very interesting concepts, and I took a lot away from reading this book.
A feckless, fascist, pile of dreck.
Decent analysis of modernity, but only a vague explanation of how to overcome it.
Ride the Tiger is a fascinating book.
It is not an easy read by any means but it is a useful and important book.
The first 3 sections of the book can become slightly tedious as they are a very dense, heady deconstruction of Heidegger, Sartre and Nietzsche.
However section 4 is where Evola jumps in to the more ‘real world’ application of the attributes of what he calls the “differentiated man”.
While I did not find myself agreeing with Evola on a number of things I still find Ride the Tiger to be one of the most vital philosophical works ever produced.
A bit too esoteric and wordy yet I highlighted something on nearly every page. The modern world crushes us spiritually, disconnecting us from our ancient roots. Dissolution prevails. The man today who is still connected to these roots can survive the modern world without necessarily removing himself from it.
A meandering diatribe of empty statements and meaningless phrases. At the end of every paragraph you expect that the next will contain some kind of nugget of wisdom, but it never comes. More ellipses, more commas and the voluminous prose of someone who is sorely missing an editor.
A timid masterpiece about the embracing of dasein. A truly inspirational book for the disillusioned.
I also feel he simplifies a lot of things and maybe doesn't understand them as well as he likes to imagine.
While I found a lot of original and interesting ideas in this book so far, I do also feel...well.
This entire book so far seems to be about how amazing he and people who are like him are and why.
Nevertheless...I think I might finish this book, though it's been a drag so far.
This book is about 70% telling how wrong people are, 15% how great it is not to be like that and another 15% of actual information.
But Evola makes his positive assertions in terms of negative statements, effectively saying, "What is real is beyond that which is real, what is actual is not actual; there is some transcendence that is the most important thing in the world [but that does not seem to exist], one should be rigorously oneself but should adhere to some sort of esoteric creed, unstated by me, which is completely mysterious and yet should be obvious to any worthy reader." It is beyond me in the sense that a schizophrenic's delusions are.
I hope some day to understand the book (but not to suffer psychosis).
Yes, and perhaps Evola could have written in a way that one could understand.
«Al luogo delle unità tradizionali – dei corpi particolari, degli ordini, delle caste o classi funzionali, delle corporazioni – membrature a cui il singolo si sentiva legato in base ad un principio superindividuale che ne informava l’intera vita dandole un significato e un orientamento specifico, oggi si hanno associazioni determinate unicamente dall’interesse materiale degli individui, che solo su questa base si uniscono: sindacati, organizzazioni di categoria, partiti.
E le inevitabili strutture centralistiche ipertrofiche degli Stati moderni, che moltiplicano gli interventi e le restrizioni anche quando vengono conclamate le “libertà democratiche”, se per un lato prevengono il disordine completo, dall’altro vanno però a colpire quel che può ancora restare in fatto di vincoli e di unità di tipo organico; il limite di questo livellamento sociale avendosi quando intervengono forme dichiaratamente totalitarie».
If you are like me you have long since seen the disturbing parallels between the far right and the new age/hippie movement. If you want to see an actual work of writing which originally brought these things together as a whole in the first place here you go. You even get that oh-so-wonderful postmodernist word salad style of non-writing as part of the presentation.So cross L Ron Hubbard, Derrida, and David Duke and that's basically what you get here. Whole Foods with soundtrack by Von Thornstahl. I guess we all need to purge our degenerate gluten-toxins sometimes.
Entre el individualismo y la iluminación, envestido con la armadura de la Tradición, así luce el "aristócrata del espíritu" al que se refiere el título. Algún día lo publicaremos en español. Fundamental.
Heavy on the ends.....
A weaker, less focused, more eclectic offering from Evola.
