https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/573009.How_Children_Fail
It is a remarkably gimmick-free book that attempts to put aside the supply-side notion of "how can we as teachers discover clever methods for imparting knowledge to our captive charges?" in favor of "how do students actually and naturally learn, and how can we as teachers facilitate that learning?" The difference between these two questions may seem subtle, but the distinction is crucial if our goal is to truly educate.The structure of the book is built around Holt's journal of his experiences team-teaching with another man in the late '50s/early '60s (one taught while the other observed the children), interspersed with Holt's own comments, amendments, contradictions, and clarifications some 30 years later.
John Holt summarizes perfectly the problem with contemporary education: it emphasizes right answers rather than learning, production rather than thinking.
The rewards for "right answers" over thinking even persists at higher education levels.
232)[return][return]He advocates for schooling at home (and in the world) as the best method of education.
Children learn best when the subject is "embedded in the context of real life," 4.
"Children learn best when their learning is connected with an immediate and serious purpose."[return][return]Holt blames the current system, pointing out that if a system consistently fails, the problem is with it, not its inputs or participants.
He so eloquently puts into words many things I have thought about education and learning.
One of my many favorite quotes: "But a child who is learning naturally, following his curiosity where it leads him, adding to his mental model of reality whatever he needs and can find a place for, and rejecting without fear or guilt what he does not need, is growing--in knowledge, in the love of learning, and the ability to learn.
Every experience will make his mental model of reality more complete and more true to life, and thus make him more able to deal realistically, imaginatively, and constructively with whatever new experience life throws his way."
A few of my favorite quotesA few good principles to keep in mind: 1 - Children do not need to be "taught" in order to learn; they will learn a great deal, and probably learn best, without being taught.
Pg 222The attention of children must be lured, caught, and held, like a shy wild animal that must be coaxed with bait to come close.
Instead, we should try to turn out people who love learning so much and learn so well that they will be able to learn whatever needs to be learned.
It definitely wasn't perfect, there were certain points where the spelling and grammar made it difficult to understand what was going on.
I can tell that John was just trying to be helpful and give pointers to other teaching personnel and share what he was interested in, but it's clear in revision notes that John wished he hadn't included products in the work.
This brings me to another, more minor problem, which is that he takes such a long time to go through the revision notes on the products that I've forgotten about what the main idea of the paragraph or chapter was about.
I definitely don't hate this book though.
This, in a nutshell, is what John Holt's book is about.
Tethered to their desks for hours, in perpetual dread of the adults around them, who only seem to be interested in developing a very narrow form of learning.
Made to learn about things that basically just don't matter to them.
Or to escape adult disapproval.Sad, anger-inducing and such an immense wastage of time.
School really is the place where we destroy life, destroy everything joyful and beautiful that exists in it, and our capacities to experience it all.
“The very natural mistake that Bill and I made was to think that the differences between the children in our class had to do with techniques of thinking, that the successful kids had good techniques of thinking while the unsuccessful, the "producers," had bad, and therefore that our task was to teach better techniques.
Before long they were thinking more of ways to get a good score than of making the beam balance.
But they out-smarted us, and figured out ways to get a good score that had nothing to do with whether the beam balanced or not.
As a student, I schooled the educational system.
I was the teacher's pet, the A student, the girl with all the answers.
Am I actually helping my students learn?
Holt, with his years of experience teaching kids, makes some brilliant observations and offers some helpful insights that have heightened my awareness of the pathetic state of what we call "education" today.
If you're interested in education, this will definitely rile you up in one way or another.
However, I definitely recommend this book to ANYONE interested in education (which should be everyone).
I would recommend a different title: How Children are Failed.Fantastic. Cannot recommend this highly enough. Some of the references are a bit dated, but the main points are just as valid as ever. It is nothing short of criminal what is done to children "in their own good".
School is a jail of some sort. Is there a room for growth in such environment? I doubt it and so does the author.
As my husband is a teacher by trade, he has read several books on children and education that he recommended I read.
First, he doesn't learn, his confusions are not cleared up; secondly, he comes to believe that a combination of bluffing, guessing, mind reading, snatching at clues and getting answers from other people is what he is supposed to do at school; that this is what school is all about; that nothing else is possible.
It may have immediate results, in that children grasp at whatever means possible to find the right answer, but they don't usually understand or retain the process this way.
The result is a fascinating and unique book that seeks to understand, not through studies or "science" but rather through direct firsthand observation, what exactly is going on in the minds of kids.The book makes a lot of good points and raises a lot of interesting questions about the nature of education and learning.
To my mind, though, none of its conclusions were unquestionable, and more than once I found myself wondering if Mr. Holt's deeply felt empathy for the children he was observing caused him to focus too exclusively on the child's point of view.
This wasnt the best book on self guided pedagogy i have read recently.
It wasnt the most scintillating read due to its focus on the author's math students and their struggles with basic math.
Still, it was worthwhile to read Holt's process of unraveling each student's approach to the subject until he could understand how exactly they were approaching their work.
I was somewhat surprised when Holt outlines how he doesnt think any subject matter should be forced on young people.
This bedrock principle of self guided learning wasnt overstated in the body of the book, so i was happily taken aback that he would feature it in his summary.
As I read, I could see his warning about our current testing craze: "One ironical consequence of the drive for so-called higher standards in schools is that children are too busy to think...to a very great degree, school is a place where children learn to be stupid...our 'tell 'em and test 'em way of teaching leaves most students aware that their academic success rests on shaky foundations." Holt is passionate, a zealot.
"Practically everything we do in schools tend to make children answer-centered...Schools aer a kind of temple of worship for 'right answers'" I see this play out with adult learners also...many of whom would have been educated during this time Holt's writing about.
While I don't agree with all of John Holt's ideas, his book definitely made me think.
I wish I had read this back when I was starting out as a teacher because it gave me a different perspective on some of my struggling students.
And I think his statement that teachers take responsibility when students learn and blame students when they don't is still true in many classrooms.
This set up also made it easy to pick up the book any time and just read a little or not even the whole thing.
Do you think you might like to teach?READ THIS!It will teach you as much or more than any college or grad course in pedagogy and in a much more enjoyable manner with more inspiration than any pedagogy professor I've ever encountered.It is a true today as it was when it was written.
It is an easy read, without jargon.As a young college student, I read a library copy and as soon as I could afford to, I purchased a copy and promised myself I would read it at least once a year while I taught and while I raised my children -I promise I kept.
(How Children Learn , What do I do Monday, and Mr. Holt's autobiography grace my book shelf as well.
Yes, not only does it really deserve to be considered a classic in the sense that it is very thought provoking and could bear multiple readings, but unlike many classics (esp.
in education!) it is a very engaging read.
I find myself very drawn in by his style as much as anything and his compelling insights into the thinking and world of children.
His observations are grounded in concrete examples as they happen (as all journaling will produce), but they have a philosophical weight that always extends beyond the immediate moment under contemplation to the larger questions of "How can I help these children learn?" and "what can we do to fix education?"
This was the first book I read about homeschooling. It was recommended in my Montessori Teacher Training, and I fell in love. Despite the dreary title, John Holt has an intuitive sense of good teaching and the innate joy children can find in a good learning environment.
This book, more than anything else, is what sold me on homeschooling. Anything to save my kids from this.
Insightful is an understatement. Written in the 50s but still very relevant today. Everyone should read it. Everyone.
لماذا يفشل اللأطفال ؟ لماذا لا يُطور الأطفال في المدارس إلا جزء ضئيل جداً من قدراتهم على التعلم و التي تتجلى بوضوح في الثلاث سنوات الأولى  حيث يتعلم الأطفال مهارات حيوية مثل الكلام و المشي وحدهم ؟ كيف يُفكر الأطفال ؟  و كيف يحدث هذا الفشل ؟ كل هذه الأسئلة كان يحاول هولت أن يبحث عن إجابات لها.
في البداية كان يكتب هذه المذكرات لصديقه المُعلم و بعذ ذلك انتشرت هذه المذكرات بين مجموعة من المُدرسين المُهتمين و في عام 1960 صدرت أول طبعة من هذا الكتاب الذي بيع منه أكثر من مليون نسخة .النقطة التي ينطلق منها هولت في مقدمة كتابه هو أننا -كمُعلمين- مسئولين عن رحلة تعلم الأطفال في مدارسنا ، بكل ما تحمله هذه الرحلة من عواقب.
Even with 300 pages, “How Children Fail” is a super easy read.
Holt’s conversation style and simple observations kept me glued to the pages.If you were a poor student, you will identify with this book.
If you were a “troublesome” student who exasperated your teachers, you will identify with this book.
To avoid trying to force a secular book into spiritual meanings, I will say up front that Holt is simply observing how a student behaves and how classrooms and teachers help him or hinder him.
Maybe that’s why phonics is a key component of reading and why many homeschool families are teaching Latin and other languages early.
This edition is even better, as he includes the original work, but has gone through and added recent sections about his further thoughts and ideas about his own original work based on experiences since then.So many good things to take away from this, such as:"It begins to look as if the test-examination-marks business is a gigantic racket..."This is one that is really nicely quotable:"Very little of what is taught in school is learned, very little of what is learned is remembered, and very little of what is remembered is used.""Teachers and school tend to mistake good behavior for good character.
Mixed feelings on this one.The author makes a basic case that children 'fail' to learn in school, because we try to 'teach', using fear as our ally.
After all, when you know that 95% of the stuff you are teaching is not going to be used by 95% of the people you are teaching it to, what will you use for motivation, except fear, sometimes disguised as something else.Maybe because I already agreed so much with the ideas, the book got boring for me after a while.
It was humorous and sad to confirm what I see as a private teacher--that I'm spending all my time trying to undo all that fearfulness stuff the kids have gotten all day every day at school for a week before I see them again.
But though I agree with the problems, the solutions I come to are not these; I end up in a different location when I've gone through the process of building.
As I was thinking about my own frustrations with work at the time, this seemed to also be a useful book about company management.A few takeaways:- "children fail because they are afraid, confused, and bored:" this seems like a pretty helpful framework, not only for thinking about the circumstances in which children disengage, but also for thinking about how adults lose motivation.- the idea of "producers" vs.
I do think that framing it as behaviors instead of character traits might be more helpful.- John Holt's journey from "how can I make school work for these kids?" to "School sucks, kids need to learn in self-directed ways" is fascinating to follow.
This book is a perfect introduction into how schools negatively affect children.
Not only do they make them dumber, they kill their creativity and their will for learning.I started reading this because I am a teacher and although I already knew most ideas and principles Holt states in this book, I enjoyed reading the book because Holt's stories with children actually show us how schools affect children negatively.When I was reading the conclusion, I recognized myself as a "dull kid".
I hope I'll eventually break the shackles that school had chained me with.
John Holt’s writings are a classic in the realm of education and child development. His experiences in the classroom and his observations on how children learn are invaluable. As an adult/parent/educator, his insights help to shift my perspective and increase my respect for children and their natural curiosity to learn following their own interests. In a leadership education, the love of learning phase is an essential step in moving on to a great scholar phase. Without the love of learning an education is stunted to become the acquisition of facts and performance on tests which will soon be easily forgotten.
How Children Fail says nothing new that experienced teachers don't know before. It's just full of observations and anecdotal stories that may or may not be similar to their experiences. Even worse is how dated the information is. Child psychology has come a very long way since then to explain why children are who they are. All in all, you are better off seeking out something more recent than How Children Fail which is nearly 60 years old now.
What is it about?Mostly it’s about how children cope with the stress of school, and how these methods are not conducive to real learning.Was it good?It was relatable and felt true, but I did not care for the fact that it was a bunch of memos he had written before he ever thought to write a book. As such, it is not nearly as fluent and organized as some of his other books.
