https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17838528-the-unexpected-everything
Watch my review video here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FA3rl... Watch my interview with Morgan Matson here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yVqHE...Morgan Matson definitely did not disappoint with this book! Filled with books, dogs, ice cream, scavenger hunts, and a swoon-worthy new romantic interest, Clark, The Unexpected Everything was an addictive read. I love the message of this book, learning how to live in the moment, and all of the characters were strong and (some of them) easy to love. ALSO CLARK. What a babe. A nerdy, beautiful babe.I definitely recommend this and all of Morgan Matson's other books, especially during summer!
A bit predictable, but a lovely summer read nonetheless!
Seriously, hours passed in what felt like seconds while reading this book.This review contains *spoilers*.The story all starts with a conference in front of Andie’s house, she’s the only daughter of a prominent congressman, who’s suddenly caught up in a scandal that threatens to upend not only his career but the next national election.When you are a politician’s daughter who’s pretty much raised yourself, you learn everything can be planned or spun, or both.
Clearly the downside of having a theoretical crush on someone you knew nothing about was the crashing realisation that you actually knew nothing about them. This is my third and favourite read by Matson, despite the 3-star rating. In the past, I have found myself liking Matson's premises and her writing style, but being put off by the immaturity of her characters. In my opinion, they are 17/18 year olds with the "voices" of 12 year olds. Fortunately, that wasn't a problem here.The Unexpected Ev
It manages to straddle the line between fun summer beach read and a deeper contemporary about family life.
It appears to be something of a romance - and it sure is, to a certain extent - but it's also at least as much about friendship, growing up, loss and family.The narrator is Andie - a congressman's daughter whose life starts to unravel in the wake of her father's political scandal.
I loved the family parts of the book most of all, and enjoyed how the author turned Andie's father into a frustrating, obtuse, but oddly likable human being who is dealing with his own pain.
Seventeen-year-old Andie, daughter of a congressman, is a dog walker.Well, she didn’t plan on spending her summer running after dogs and making sure these fluffy buddies get their everyday amount of sun and exercise.
It’s adorable.I only read one book by this author – though a ‘did not finish’ doesn’t quite count, does it?
Except, I’m the type of human being who believes in second chances, so I let myself be hyped up about this new contemporary novel.You know a story is enthralling, therefore worth finishing, when you can’t help yourself from peeking at it even during the most inappropriate moments.
SO MUCH LOVE FOR THIS BOOKReview to come!
4.5/5 starsThis is probably my least favorite Morgan Matson book so far, which isn't saying much because I still LOVED IT.
I loved the friendship and family and romance elements all coming together in one book and really melding well.
Clark is the absolute definition of precious cinnamon roll to good for this world, too pure.
HE EMBODIES THE MEME.The further out I get from this book the more I love it, so I'll probably be rereading it again in May for #MonthOfMatsonReread for month of matson 2017I still stand by pretty much everything I said.
I LOVE Clark and I love the relationship Andie forms with her dad.
I just read this a second time and LOVED it!
It's more of a string of fun scenes with some of the most endearing and realistic characters you can find in any YA contemporary.
BUT I totally take that back and honestly think this is one of my top contemporaries now...
there are just so many layers to the characters & their dynamics.
The story is lighthearted but also has actual depth at the same time.
Soooo yes - this is another summer read I've totally changed my mind about this year.Thank you to the publisher for sending me an ARC.
ANOTHER MORGAN MATSON AMAZING BOOK!VIDEO REVIEW COMING SOON!
I mean, plus drama and angst in the last 100-pages, but do you know how often I read HAPPY books????
(And I think that's really common for most of the Matson books I've read so far.) And ya know, this gives me warm fuzzies.
The book starts with Andie having like 2% of a relationship with her dad, and then it grows and strengthens until they're watching John Wayne (ew) and having midnight ice cream meetings and inside jokes and IT LITERALLY IS MY FAVOURITE THING TO WATCH THIS DAD AND HIS DAUGHTER GROW CLOSER.• It features a HOMESCHOOLER who is NOT WEIRD.Be still my beating heart.
All I can say is that this book has been my everything for the past few days and I want a Clark of my own and I will not stop until I find him. That is all.
"I looked up at him, and a thought passed through my brain before I could stop or analyze it. It’s you—of course it is. There you are."♥ buddy read with my favorite, Sharon ♥ 3.5 stars. Because of all the hype surrounding Morgan Matson & her books, my high expectations just weren't met. I really enjoyed so many aspects of this book overall, but there were just some annoying things I couldn't ignore. From the beginning, I couldn't bring myself to like or relate to Andie. Politician's privile
I really enjoyed so many aspects of this book overall, but there were just some annoying things I couldn't ignore.
From the beginning, I couldn't bring myself to like or relate to Andie.
THANKFULLY, Andie does show some character development, and I loved the way her relationships with her friends, Clark, and father evolved.
He was always so honest about his thoughts and feelings & I found him to be the best part of this book because of that.
Andie + her father.
It was mainly Andie being annoying lmao.
Okay, I know, I always say that, but I always cry in books whether it's happy or sad.You have Andie who's father is a politician and they haven't really spent time together in about 5 years.
Andie's mom isn't around but you can read about that in the book.
I love Andie's friends.
Now Andie has no idea what she's going to do, but her friends are happy she's going to be with them over the summer.
Andie has a great time with her friends.
Either way, I loved the book, the characters, the whole story line.
As did Andie’s father, and her relationship with him, even though that takes up a lot of the book.Basically, I think I am astonished at the fact that this book could casually be exactly eight thousand seven hundred and forty-two pages long (or 519, same difference) and still feel so flat/boring/underdone/half-baked/overwhelmingly eh.Having said that, this book was still written by Morgan Matson, which means it feels like summer and takes thirty seconds to read and will always have at least occasional seconds of fun and one to two heart-wrenching Emotional Speeches And/Or Moments.Which puts it above most contemporaries anyway.Bottom line: Not my favorite Morgan Matson!!!
I don't even need to know what this book is about.IT IS BY MORGAN MATSONIt could be about purple unicorns and their adventures in a dentist office and I would still want to read it.
I finally finished this massive book.
It's no secret Morgan is one of my all time favorite authors and so the bar is so high for any of her books.
This was the first 4-star read of hers for me.
I loved her writing and attention to detail as always, but I struggled to connect to the plot and MC for quite awhile.
Ultimately, it started to pick up about 200 pages in, but my favorite parts weren't the main parts (I.e., Andie's relationship with her dad).
The book was a lot of fun and has great messages about friendship.
Not always believable but still wonderful to read and experience :)
This story surrounds the title character Andie (short for Alexandra) as her summer takes a surprising turn.
Through scandals, love, family and friends this book definitely takes you on a wonderful journey.
This story ventures into father-daughter relationships that are REAL, fun and relatable friendships and a true coming of age story.
Andie learns a lot about herself and how to approach the world in this contemporary novel.
Andie's relationship with her dad is weak and fragile at the beginning of the story and takes a really long time to repair.
This novel will draw you right into the characters.
YES MORGAN MATSON YES!! THIS BOOK IS FANTASTIC. ok, the beginning is kind of slow and I was meh about it, but after you get past the first 100 pages, it just gets better and better. oh, AND CLARK. UGH CLARK IS SO CUTE. this book made me happy and I HIGHLY recommend reading The Unexpected Everything!! (I'll post more in depth review on my blog!)
Maybe 4.5 stars! ;) As expected from Morgan Matson, it is  “Everything Unexpected”  and perhaps my most delightful read from the author as to date. It’s the perfect encompassing summer story about family, friendship, relationships, moving on from loss of a loved one, falling in love, making important life decisions and embarking on new adventures. It’s a lot more fun than I expected it to be. Although the story sometimes read a bit like rom-com movies making it a bit predictable, it was still v
It’s the perfect encompassing summer story about family, friendship, relationships, moving on from loss of a loved one, falling in love, making important life decisions and embarking on new adventures.
Although the story sometimes read a bit like rom-com movies making it a bit predictable, it was still very enjoyable and heartwarming.
I also love that the story is very realistic and yet it still manages to have fantastical elements to it.
You’ll get what I mean when you read the book.
I just love Morgan Matson- her kind and wonderful personality that her writing and stories naturally exude.
"Sometimes we get a little bit of a facade. We think we have people. Family, friends...but in the end, it's just you and the darkness. Everyone leaves eventually, my young friend. It's better, really, to learn it early. This way, you can save yourself some disappointment."  The Unexpected Everything is my first Morgan Matson book. Technically, it's supposed to be the second, because I once tried to read Amy & Roger's Epic Detour but didn't like it then. However, after finishing this one, I
I like that books bring them closer and makes their relationship stronger, because well, apparently when a guy who writes/reads meets a girl who doesn't read...they'll find a way out eventually.
"I don't really read, you know, books." Clark's eyebrows flew up, and it was like he took a step back from me, even though I was pretty sure his feet didn't actually move.
You know, novels.""If you don't love fiction novels," Clark said, and even though I tried to fight it, I could feel a smile tugging at the corners of my mouth, "what do you read?" He shook his head, and it was like I could practically feel how baffled he was.
CUTE NERDY GUYS THAT WRITE BESTSELLING FANTASY NOVELS!
DOGS!!!Come on, if that didn't make you pick up this book right now, I seriously don't know what else to say to you.Oh, wait...CUTE NERDY GUYS THAT WRITE BESTSELLING FANTASY NOVELS AND WEAR STAR WARS AND DOCTOR WHO T-SHIRTS!Boom.In all seriousness, I absolutely loved this book.
Like with my previous Morgan Matson book, Since You've Been Gone, I had to push myself to read past those first 10% because she always puts a lot of details and a lot of characters whose names I have to remember.
I would recommend this one to all you YA readers who are sick of books with immature characters and lack of parents' appearance in them.
This was very sweet, I loved the message behind it, and come on, how often do we get a 500+ page YA contemporary romance?!
The writing was wonderful, as expected and Morgan Matson fans will delight in this (plus it's total nerd girl reading porn - you'll get what I mean when you read it.) Personally though, the romance was just not for me and I never connected to it or the love interest - and since that's the main narrative I really couldn't give it more than 3 stars.
I very much enjoyed the family and friend dynamic of this novel though, as I always do with Morgan Matson's work.
Around a 4.8+Oh my gosh this book was so realistic (excluding some cute and cliche parts that I liked as well). Everything was so cute and Morgan Matson is truly the queen of summer books.
Pros:- DOGS!- Wholly realistic friendship dynamics- Hilarious exchanges- That thing where you're unsure of whether the author is celebrating emojis or mocking them- A teen authorCons:- About 150 pages too long- Heeeeere, little plot! Come here, little plot! Where have you gone off now, little plot?
Another 5 star read! I loved this book so much!
What lies ahead is a summer of learning new things, romance and the test of friendship.
If whole galaxies could change, so could I.”  I really enjoyed this book, I think like Matson's other books it gives teen readers a hint that life isn't all you plan it to be and to sometimes let things go and see what happens.
My favorite parts of the book were when Andie and her father spent time together and learning more about the character of Clark.
Once I got in the flow of things I found it hard to put this book down!
One of the loveliest aspects of The Unexpected Everything was the relationship between Andie and her father.
Lately it seems that so many young adult novels enjoy creating toxic friendships between it's female characters, which I know during your teen years is realistic but also needs to be balanced by positive female friendships and The Unexpected Everything is a wonderful example.Clark although slightly older than Andie, was the epitome of a book boyfriend.
It was not only sex positive with Andie and Clark having discussed the physical aspects of their relationship, but menstruation.
Morgan Matson has done it yet again!From start to finish this book honestly felt so real.
I honestly related to Clark so much and I could see myself being great friends with him and Tom. Clark and Andie are the cutest fictional couple I've met in a while, they're just so great for each other and I rooted for them from the start!Another thing I thought this book did brilliantly was the character's relationships with their parents!
Nevertheless, I am glad that I gave this book a shot because I found it to be very meaningful.Love, family, and friendship.
Throughout the novel, she rarely interacted with people outside this small social circle.
Some readers might take that negatively, but I actually liked that Andie was very picky with those she spent her time with.
I would have given this book 5/5 stars if Andie's character development hadn't suddenly flopped in the climax.
Gleaning upon its emphasis on love, family, and friendship, I can honestly and objectively say that it was one of the most meaningful books I've read this year.
Family drama + Falling in love + Friendship + Pizza + ice-cream + SummerBonus: DogsUnexpected Everything contain all of Morgan Matson’s trademark quirks.
Unfortunately, The Unexpected Everything didn’t steer clear from that.
It follows the story of Andie, the politician’s daughter who knows her boundaries, who has a plan for her life.
I love how Matson crafted this specific story line.
Their relationship started with a handful of awkwardness, hesitancy, tight lipped smiles.
It’s the kind of romance that is difficult to grasp at first.
Where they are fumbling for the right conversations to talk about, and when the wall between them started to melt, everything are rewarding.
