https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46432.Epitaph_for_a_Spy
It seems there were other pictures on the roll—including a few of military installations--and French intelligence wishes to have a word with Monsieur Vadassy.But what begins as the “regular guy when mistaken for spy spies on spies” meme shifts quickly into something more closely resembling the traditional English country-house who-dunnit, for Vadassy must discover which resident of his hotel inadvertently exchanged cameras with him.
In realtà la polizia francese sa bene che Vadassy è innocente, ma sa anche che non è in condizione di trattare, quindi, o entro tre giorni scoprirà chi fra gli ospiti del suo albergo è la vera spia, o gli verrà revocato il permesso di soggiorno.
Vadassy però non è del mestiere e si muove a disagio in quel gruppo di persone in cui nessuno è chi dice di essere e dove niente è come sembra; è maldestro, impacciato, e smascherare la pericolosa spia non sarà così semplice…Chi predilige l’azione, i ritmi adrenalinici e i colpi di scena ogni due pagine stia alla larga da questo romanzo perché qui di azione ce n’è poca: qui si viaggia con calma, lentamente, rilassati.https://youtu.be/FgxwKEuy-pMAh, il Sud!
Ambler’s heroes were not professional spies but ordinary people caught up in the dangerous web of espionage.
What he doesn’t know is that the Inspector from the Sûreté hasn’t been entirely truthful with him and the situation is not quite what he believes it to be.Ambler’s approach to the spy novel is to concentrate on tension rather than action.
It’s not as extreme in its cynicism as the type of spy fiction that would emerge in the 1960s but it does mark a definite step in that direction.
Not a bad novel, but one that is perhaps past its read-by date.
He manages to clearly tell his story and develop a heightened sense of danger without leaving the reader at a loss.
A man, Josef Vadassy, is on a vacation in the south of France.
His hobby is photography, and he has just taken a roll of exposed film to the chemists for development.
It has to belong to one of the other guests at the hotel, and there are nine of them.
Throughout all of this, Ambler manages to keep all of the suspects straight in our minds – a difficult thing to do.
It is only because he refuses to obey his directions, and instead strikes out on his own path of inquiry that misfortune follows him through the book.This spy novel could easily have been a detective mystery in the style of Agatha Christie, etc.
but instead Ambler strikes out to improve upon the seldom written (at that time) spy genre of books.
Watching this movie got me intrigued in Amblers works and that let to this book and review.
A fine author who is a must read for anyone who truly is a fan of spy novels!
«او پول لازم داشت.»هستهی اصلی داستان همین یه جملهی سادهست. اگر از افرادی هستین که فکر میکنین باید کلاسیکها رو خوند، یا اگر عاشق ادبیات پلیسی هستین، این کتاب گزینهی خیلی خوبیه. داستان خیلی عجیب و غریب و پیچیدهای نداره، ولی نسبتا جذابه. به نظرم دلیل اصلی جذابیتش پرت بودن شخصیت اصلی داستانه. انتخاب اسم کتاب خیلی برام جالبه. توی یه جمله از کتاب مشخص میشه که چرا این اسم برای رمان انتخاب شده. پینوشت: شخصیت کتاب به قدری استادانه پرت و تعطیله که بعضی جاهای داستان واقعا کمدی میشه. امبلر استادانه طنزپرداز
اگر از افرادی هستین که فکر می‌کنین باید کلاسیک‌ها رو خوند، یا اگر عاشق ادبیات پلیسی هستین، این کتاب گزینه‌ی خیلی خوبیه.
داستان خیلی عجیب و غریب و پیچیده‌ای نداره، ولی نسبتا جذابه.
به نظرم دلیل اصلی جذابیتش پرت بودن شخصیت اصلی داستانه.
انتخاب اسم کتاب خیلی برام جالبه.
توی یه جمله از کتاب مشخص میشه که چرا این اسم برای رمان انتخاب شده.
پی‌نوشت: شخصیت کتاب به قدری استادانه پرت و تعطیله که بعضی جاهای داستان واقعا کمدی میشه.
امبلر استادانه طنزپردازی می‌کنه توی کتاب.
یه پاراگراف کتاب باعث شد واقعا بخندم.
خندیدن وسط یه داستان جنایی حس جالبیه.
From the opening sentence the reader is instantly drawn into the story as the protagonist announcing that he was placed under arrest by the French police.
The police confiscate his camera film and discover that there are 10 photographs containing images of restricted French military sites among the rest of his vacation photos of lizards.
Why are these photos on his roll of film?
The French authorities have given him a week to answer these questions or else he will be deported.
The protagonist is met with a race against time to answer these questions in this fast paced and exciting thriller.
Really taut spy thriller.
Well it's not just a spy thriller, there's an awful lot of emotion/relationship dynamics stuff in there.
Loved all the camera mentions too, being a vintage 35mm fan.For practically the whole book I felt like I was reading it with a knot in my stomach.
It was that gripping and threatening, you could really see how that situation could happen to the unexpecting Josef.
Very realistic basis for quite a wild plot.
But the ending was a tiny bit disappointing.
Just didn't reach the quality of some of the other parts of the book.
However, it was merely a sort of book cover shopping rather than a serious attempt leading to read his works, that is, I have never read him till I came across this paperback at the Booklover Bookshop one day last June and decided to have a go with it.Coming to think about its title, I think it is a seemingly literal one due to its implication which is in contrast with some spy fictions I have enjoyed reading like John le Carre's The Spy Who Came in From the Cold, Graham Greene's The Human Factor, Joseph Conrad's The Secret Agent, etc.
I really enjoyed this old-school spy mystery by the respected British writer Eric Ambler. Like some of Ambler’s other novels, Epitaph for a Spy features a relatively ordinary if somewhat naïve man who, through no real fault of his own, finds himself caught up in a mysterious network of intrigue and illegal activities. The man in question here is Josef Vadassy, a languages teacher and Hungarian refugee of uncertain status, who gets into trouble while taking pictures during his holiday in the South of France.To read my review, click here:https://jacquiwine.wordpress.com/2018...
In a pre-war resort town, a stateless Hungarian is forced into service by French secret intelligence. Me and everyone else agree that Ambler is the best spy novelist who ever wrote spy novels; he makes John LeCarre look like Tom Clancy. Not only are the actual mechanics of the plot sharp and believable, but they are framed by a genuine understanding of injustice, both the Machiavellian cruelties of great states and our own internal prejudice.
علیرغم برخی نکات که چندان قانعکننده نبود، اما رمان جاسوسی خوبی بود که از خواندنش لذت بردم، موقعیت داستان، شخصیت اصلیاش و توصیفها خیلی برایم دوستداشتنی بودند. پای استدلالی داستان البته گهگاه چوبین بود حسابی.
علیرغم برخی نکات که چندان قانع‌کننده نبود، اما رمان جاسوسی خوبی بود که از خواندنش لذت بردم، موقعیت داستان، شخصیت اصلی‌اش و توصیف‌ها خیلی برایم دوست‌داشتنی بودند. پای استدلالی داستان البته گهگاه چوبین بود حسابی.‏
I didn't stop once I picked up this book. I liked all the characters, at least I enjoyed watching them relate to each other. I felt as if I was in an Agatha Christie novel, Evil Under the Sun. The main character's voice felt like my own. He was full of doubt, self recrimination, but he grew, matured as the days passed. Very interesting. Good read!
- Ecoutez-moi bien, Vadassy : vous allez retourner à la Réserve et annoncer à Köche que votre valise a été forcée et qu'on vous a volé différents objets - un porte-cigarettes en argent et une boîte contenant un diamant monté en épingle, une chaîne en or et deux bobines de films.
Votre valise a été forcée?- Non, mais...- Alors, forcez-la avant de prévenir Köche et comprenez bien que vous ne devez parler des bobines qu'incidemment: c'est surtout la perte de vos bijoux qui vous tracasse.- Oui, mais je ne possède ni porte-cigarettes, ni diamant, ni chaîne de montre...- Évidemment, puisqu'ils vous ont été volés.
4.5*I have a fondness for this sub-genre of spy novels - the type in which an innocent person gets caught up in some way with espionage and tries to muddle things out while unsure whom to trust.
Ambler is one of the creators (if not the creator) of this sub-genre & the excellence of his books is witnessed by the number of authors who have followed in his footsteps.
One aspect I liked about this book is that while Vadassy tries (view spoiler)[to comply with the instructions he has been given by French Naval Intelligence, since it is his only hope of escape out this tangle (hide spoiler)], he is hopelessly inept at it!
It was the first Eric Ambler book I have read.
I like historical and spy stories and this was both.
The main character, Vadassy, gets mixed up in the hunt for a spy while staying at a resort in southern France just prior to World War II.
Ambler's prose can be dry at times but he keeps the story moving.
Vadassy never figures out what is going around him by myself and this was mildly irritating.
It gives a glimmer of Europe pre-World War II and the politics that were emerging.
I will read more eric Ambler.
Come in un giallo di Agatha Christie, tutta la vicenda è ambientata in un hotel della Costa Azzurra e i sospettati sono i pochi clienti dell'albergo. Ma non c'è un delitto, c'è un intrigo, e non c'è un investigatore (c'è ma non è rilevante), esiste invece la vittima dell'intrigo che deve cercare di risolvere l'enigma. Lo spionaggio è solo un pretesto, questo è un classico romanzo giallo travestito da spy story. Come sempre in Ambler la prosa è accattivante, i personaggi cosmopoliti, l'ambiente è high class.

This is the fourth book of his I have read, the others being 'A Coffin for Dimitrios', 'Light of Day,' 'Journey into Fear", and while these are more popular, and might even be a cut above 'Epitaph for a Spy' in terms of construct and plotting, I still rate this a top thriller.
This book has the classic theme of Ambler's spy novels - the ordinary man being thrust into extraordinary circumstances.
In this case, the hero, Vadassy, a man without a state, finds himself caught up in an web of espionage while vacationing in the South of France in the late 1930's.
Cracking little book this, a great one to get you back in to the mindset of spy novels having been away from them for a while!
Will he prove to be an innocent man or a spy?An interesting background issue, the difference between nations and states arises.
Graham Greene placed Stamboul Train, one of his “entertainments,” as he called his thrillers, in Subotica.Alfred Hitchcock once famously claimed that his films often revolved around a MacGuffin, the thing that gets the story rolling, but that ultimately proves unnecessary to the story, like the eponymous Maltese Falcon.
I've taken half a star off here because Epitaph for a Spy hasn't thrilled me quite as much as The Mask of Dimitrios or Journey into Fear.
Partially I think this is because the main protagonist, Josef Vadassy, comes across as something of a twit.
To be fair, Vadassy thinks this of himself.
It becomes almost a classic country house mystery with the stock characters who belong there, but then, with that feeling of missing a step when you're between sleeping and waking, Ambler plunges you into the fear and tension of 1930s Europe.
'Epitaph for a Spy' was an utterly engaging story.
Josef Vadassy was a truly human, relatable protagonist.
He seemed to reflect my own thoughts on everything he did; he never seemed foolish, but was also never ingenious in his plans.
He acted as I think I would have done in similar circumstances.
Above all however, 'Epitaph for a Spy' was a gripping thriller.
I loved every minute I spent reading this book, and for anyone wanting a read that engages and excites from beginning to end, I simply can't recommend it enough.
I have started reading Eric Ambler on the recommendation of a friend.
He really is the precursor to the "naturalistic" kind of spy story made famous by Len Deighton and John le Carre, and although a little dated well worth following up.
In fact, being a little dated helps in this story, written in the run up to World War Two, which gives a glimpse of the problems faced by political refugees of the time, with lessons very relevant to today and a reminder of the fundamental reasons behind the establishment of the European Union.
It's the kind of book that reads very well at a single sitting, but with plot elements that don't really stand up to scrutiny if you stop to think about them.
Written earlier - '37 - than others of Ambler's spy stories, this tale is deliciously whimsical (but not without some heavier brush strokes for the looming darkness in Germany).
It is a fast read, less complex than the later narratives.
The setting - a resort in the south of France - is described so well that one can almost feel the breezes off the Mediterranean and taste the salt in the air.
The protagonist, an Ambler signature style unassuming fellow, is a 32-year old language teacher who finds himself embroiled in serious intrigue that pushes him hard to develop new and interesting survival skills which then permit him to live and 'carry on'!
Another wonderful read!
I am an Ambler fan, but I was not over the moon with this one, though I liked it fine.
I think Ambler got better in the later books (this one was his third).
When it was published in 1938 in England, according to American critic Howard Haycraft, it was notable for pushing the action out of the hands of diplomats and professionals to catching up a common man into the intrigue.
It was a bit like an Agatha Christie with a cast of ten potential bad guys and an amateur sleuth, but better because of the realistic pickle that catches a hapless Hungarian in France with an expired passport between the police and the spy.
I had actually forgotten about reading this book just a few years ago until I recently watched the movie version.
[The book was much better and, with the right director, it could easily have been the other way around.
Maybe they had problems with the budget.:]Eric Ambler is one of my favorite authors and I'm really not able to put my finger on why that's the case.
His style is almost flawless and he doesn't seem to have a trace of Greene's bitterness.This is certainly not Ambler's best novel but it is enjoyable reading.
A classic of the spy genre, and only a little dated. Good fun, with a breathless conclusion that will set your heart racing as you race across the rooftops in pursuit of the spy and nemesis. The novel neatly captures the simultaneous statelessness and shifting allegiances of the citizens of Europe just before WW II. It reads like a black and white movie from the early days of the spy films of the era. It's a quick and delicious read.
Enjoyable spy novel from the 1930s set in a resort in the south of France. The author successfully creates a shy academic with no detective ability as the central character who, due to a mix-up, must assist the police in ferreting out the spy. This character's struggles add both humor and a feeling of on-going nightmare to the novel.
