https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99285.The_Rhetoric_The_Poetics_of_Aristotle
It is apparently one of the earliest works dealing with poetry and tragedy from a critical perspective.
How practical his rules are, I can't comment on.
The second work on Rhetoric can be easily grouped with Aristotle's works on ethics and politics on one side, and with his logical works on the other side.
One could see this work as a bridge between his ethical/political thought and his theories on logic.
Cicero was apparently well acquainted with Aristotle's thoughts on Rhetoric.
I'm not sure it's essential Aristotle, but due to the second work's relationship to his logical works and political/ethical works, it's important.
If you are interested in philosophical aspect of human life then this is the perfect book for you.
Aristotle made his student analyze poetry and come up with logical explanation as to why it was written, to study every word of it, in order to understand human structure of mind which helped the ruler to develop great wits and intelligence.
Interesting thing mentioned was the difference between plot and a story.
I am always fascinated by reading works by Aristotle because he is one of the greatest philosophers, whose books give an insight how people thought many years ago and what was their meaning of the world and the rest of the things we take for granted today...
It's a classic for all of you English majors out there! I personally loved it:)
Le he puesto No Rating porque sólo he terminado Arte Poética; la que por cierto, debería ser una lectura fundamental para todxs lxs que amamos las letras.
While doing 'homework' for an online writing class with Aaron Sorkin, I had cause to reread Aristotle's short bible on dramatic writing. While it's still no page turner, the advice he offers remains essential to writers looking to craft solid plays, movies, and TV stories.
Про "Риторику" Аристотеля в первую очередь следует знать то, что эта работа всё еще имеет значительную практическую ценность. Ее и сейчас можно считать полноценным справочником выступающего, который охватывает возможные цели речи; указывает на присущую каждому типу речи ключевую ценность и раскрывает ее особенности; описывает, в чем состоят основные эмоции и как их можно возбудить в слушателях, наконец, касается вопросов стиля.Выступающий, кто воспользуется советами Аристотеля, наконец заживет полной жизнью. Он увидит ценность не только умозаключений, но и метафор; демонстрации не только доказательств, но и своего характера; увидит ценность обращения не только к "судьям" в каком-либо вопросе, но и к "простым зрителям".
How is one supposed to rate Greek philosophy?One gives it three stars to err on the side of better than average but still fall lazily asleep because it is mostly dated and frustrating.Rules on how to be a good orator. How I be speak nice.Rules on how to write good poetry. Thou must, like a meadow, understand the too blue truths of meter and form.Rules on how to etc.Bedtime.Greece.
A great book for anyone seeking a lesson in good rhetorical skills. I still have this book on my shelf and enjoy going back to it every now and then for a refressher. The book has so much to offer, it is hard to absorb it all at once. A must for anyone wanting a true education in rhetoric.
Interesting. Agreed with some points, disagreed with others. He seemed chauvinistic at times.
"Rhetoric" is less philosophy and as the title suggests, more a "how-to" book on persuading and convincing people with words.
Aristotle begins "Rhetoric" by comparing persuasive debating as a skill as important as winning wars.
In the first of the three books in "Rhetoric" he explains what rhetoric is, when to use it, and why it is an important skill to have.
Aristotle uses the "words as war" metaphor to illustrate tactics to discredit and tear down an opponents argument.
He also describes how to use mocking and jesting to discredit a digressing view and opponent.In "Poetics", which is a short book of around 50-60 pages, Aristotle compares different forms of poems.
Since I decided to incorporate rhetorical analysis in the courses that I teach, I figured that I needed to read the classic work on rhetoric.
I picked up this edition a number of years ago at a rummage sale, and it had the Poetics as well.
Reading these works and the introductory material helped me to see how integrated Aristotle's ideas were across his works, since the Rhetoric related not only to the the Poetics but to his works on logic, ethics, and politics as well (I have not read these).
The introductory material also pointed out Aristotle's differences with his teacher Plato on rhetoric and imitative poetry.
Reading only Corbett's introduction.
Uma obra clássica que continua a influenciar diferentes artes (literatura, teatro, música, cinema, ...), dando luzes sobre a arte de bem escrever e bem falar.
Kind of a tough slog.
Any book that influences a persons life deserves to praised. And this book is definitely a life changer.
The hardest book I've ever read. Also, one of the best and very informative.
Poetics is a pretty outdated text and I consider it only useful for evaluating an early example of literary theory. Rhetoric, however, is still prominently important for introducing rhetoric. Aristotle is the key counterpoint to Plato and I wish we had more complex texts than Rhetoric or Topics to study.
There is some debate about how much his theories were meant to be prescriptive, or how much they were more detached and analytical (as well as debates about how much romanticism and humanism have colored modern readings of concepts like katharsis), but the presentation in this translation is very prescriptive--I think this translation is quite conservative in terms of style, tone, and interpretation.Aristotle lays out the principles of tragedy, defining what it is, how it will be most effectively written and presented, and so on.
Aristotle provides an exhaustive review of tragedy in drama as well as some thoughts on epic poetry.
The first half of the book was understandable and I could follow it easily, but the second half of the book starts to go into different kinds of words and uses of speech, which did not exactly appear relevant, especially since his examples were still in the original Greek.
His analysis on the plot of the story, particularly how important it is to have a unifying idea throughout the tragedy, was interesting, and his thoughts on actually placing the suffering part of a tragedy also caught my attention.
The Rhetoric and the Poetics exhibit an impressive level of modern relevance considering their age.
But, Aristotle's tendency for repetition and his excessive habit of drawing from contemporary literary examples drains an incredible amount of life out of the text of the Rhetoric.
Couple this with an unforgivable Homeric bias in the Poetics which directly contradicts his chief points and definitions, as well as several cringeworthy passages throughout ("Such goodness is possible in every type of personage, even in a woman or a slave, though the one is perhaps an inferior, and the other a wholly worthless being", and more) and you have a relatively informative course in ancient linguistics and poetry which falls far short of perfection.
Avec les sophistes, le Logos se trouve coupé de toute relation avec l'Être transcendant, il devient simplement le discours manié efficacement par l'individu habile et fort pour rendre convaincantes les opinions qu'il a intérêt à inculquer à ceux qu'il veut manipuler à sa guise.De là naît la Rhétorique qui fait du verbe un instrument au service de la passion de l'individu; elle enseigne à manier le discours de façon efficace sans poser le problème de la sincérité ou de la valeur de ce qui est dit.
I enjoyed reading this book. I can easily see why a book such as this became the textbook for countless academics for hundreds of years. Aristotle writes with immense confidence, almost as if he believes that his words are the gospel truth. (That's odd phrase for me to use but it satisfactorily conveys the point I'm trying to make.)This is a cursory review only. Any more adequate review would require much more time devoted to reading, studying and analyzing the text.For those interested in reading the classics, this one will not disappoint or bore you to tears.
Both of these works are full of important insights about human nature. Chapter 4 of the Poetics, for example, discusses the essential place of imitation in learning, and the books of the rhetoric are full of material about psychology. The titles might suggest that these works are primarily relevant to themes of literature, but they in fact fit more tightly with the themes of human life explored in Aristotle Ethics and Politics.
You have to admit Aristotle was good. What would he have become if born in our time? Probably depressed and unemployed. A writer, to be sure.
Very informative although difficult to get through for it is not an enjoyable read. Aristotle can be very repetitive and thorough. Definitely useful for any type of public speaker but anyone who reads it can benefit from these teachings.
only read the poetics volume of this specific edition
Clear, concise, and helpful. Can't beat the classics; there's a reason they so became.
reading
In these two works, Aristotle stated foundational principles of literature and persuasion which still hold true today.
