https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1876.The_History_of_Sexuality_Volume_3
Foucault discusses discretion in the discourse about sexuality and other related aspects, from a psychological/sociological/political point of view.He first explains The Repressive Theory which claims that the history of sexuality in the past couple of centuries was based on repression.
To talk about sex and to enjoy it.But Foucault disagrees with that claim and tackles the progress in sexual discourse in the past 300 years.
The novelty of these sources sets this book apart from volume 2, which had been built around the "greatest hitmakers" of Greek science and philosophy (Hippocrates, Plato, Xenophon, Aristotle, etc.); however, given its frequent references to that earlier book, volume 3 shouldn't be read as a standalone text.
All of his references to the development of Christian thinking about sex (which this volume is careful to remind us is NOT merely the product of Stoic self-denial or earlier Greek attempts at mastery and moderation, but yet another stage in the history of this subject), which are foreshadowed throughout the series, thus remain unresolved.
يتحدث فوكو عن مبدأ الانهمام بالذات كممارسة عقلانية تجاه الذات والمجتمع والسلطة السياسية، كطريقة للعيش بتجاوب مع العالم وفي نفس الوقت لخلق حياة ناشطة منظمة.
A discursificação do cristianismo, que foi tratanto o sexo no confessionário através dos pecados rigorosamente catalogados, onde já as palavra pederastia e pederasta tinham sido herdadas dos gregos ganhando contornos malignos deu lugar às patologias da sexologia.
A ideia surpreendente, que Foucault traz é que o método da psicanálise foi precisamente o de criar discurso, apresentando esta discursificação específica alguma continuidade ou pelo menos pontos de contacto com o cristianismo.
Ainda que não no sentido de se sentirem culpadas, mas no sentido oposto, de que as pessoas deixassem de se sentir-se culpadas.Nunca mais a sexualidade no ocidente deixaria, até hoje, de ser vivida como um discurso de si.
A direct continuation of volume 2. The final section brings the whole project into a bit more clear perspective on how these works connect to modern society, but that was a task he set asside in full for the unfinished fourth volume which he was working on when he died. Still, we can pick up some of the comments previewed throughout volumes 2 and 3 as well as some of his interviews and piece together an interesting ethico-political perspective of the self and and its constitution.
Con este tercer tomo, doy por terminado mi primer acercamiento a M.
Foulcault, caracterizado por altas y bajas en la lectura no por él, sino por la vida misma.
Lamentando que este proyecto hubiese quedado trunco, he de decir que aunque no es mi favorito de la trilogía, es un libro fácil de leer y con una progresión temática que nos va poniendo a pensar conforme pasan las páginas , cuestión que suelo valorar mucho en la lectura teórica.
Creo que por el momento no me queda más que decir porque recién empiezo a digerirlo.
Sepan ustedes personar la austeridad de esta reseña.
Foucault analyzes the importance of self discipline when it comes to sexual relationships and marriage, the normalization of heterosexuality through marriage and the condemnation of homosexuality by greek and by some roman thinkers, argues that a lot of it, though it influenced Christianity is not quite at the same level of banning homosexuality and masturbation.
I'm not new to this argument, and I know it's not like he invented it, he's after all, just quoting Greek pagan people.
You don't get to define them by "orientations", but recognize the fact that they feel attracted (whether romantically or sexually, but those distinctions concern gender theorists more, I guess...
عندما بدأت قراءة تاريخ الجنسانية قبل عدة سنوات كانت لدي الكثير من التساؤلات حول هذا الموضوع، و يسعدني بعد استكمال قراته أن أقول أنه قد أجاب عليها و على كثير من الأمور التى لم تخطر على بالي.
الجزء الثاني الذي أثار إهتمامي هو في مؤخرة الكتاب عندما تحدث فوكو عن الحب المثلي للرجال و قدم مناظرة مثيرة جدا للإهتمام، المناظرة حول شرعية الحب المثلي و تقبله في المجتمع الإغريقي.و يعقب فوكو بعدها فيرجح إدانة الحب المثلي.
Interesting take on how ancient Greek and Roman customs and medical ideas became the source of many of our modern hesitations surrounding sex and the care of the self. Some say Foucault made up a bunch of his references but I like the text and it has some novel ideas.
لي عودة مع هذه المجلدات
Someone said that this book is advocating pedophilia, and I think that that person misunderstood what Foucault wrote. Foucault was describing how the current cultural relationship that men hold with women appears, in his theory, to have its cultural root in the association men had with boys in Ancient Greece.If anything, Foucault seems to be saying that the current stereotypical relationship between men and women is unequal. At least that's what I got from the book.
Much like volume 2, this is a true history of sexuality and has little theory. Foucault, interestingly, doesn't focus as much on the concept of power in volumes 2 and 3 of his sexuality trilogy. Here we get the shifting focus in the first centuries of the common era to a care of the self in sexual ethics. An interesting read.
Easier than some of his earlier stuff, but still a bit difficult at times. Definitely a deep and meaningful historical meditation though on human historical roots of philosophy, sex, self, love, marriage and pleasure.
Takes forever to get started, but a satisfying conclusion when he eventually gets there.
Volve, Victor Hugo, que te perdonamos. Es un poco desesperanzador ver como la situación del mundo no ha cambiado a lo largo de los siglos. No, está no es una reseña de “Los Miserables”
Artemidorus' manual is the first example we have an objective and external reference point beyond human control that prescribes and regulates the propriety of sexual relationship and forms of sexual conduct.
This comes to a final point at the end of the book when the monogamous marriage between a man and a woman enters discourse as the ideal context for sexual activity and ultimately prevails over others in the West (further elaboration of this theme would have ensued had Foucault lived to write a 4th volume).
This is the rarefaction of sexuality, the thinning of legitimate forms of sexuality that Vol. 3 is primarily discussing.It is good to consider entire three volumes in context along with Discipline and Punish: The Birth of the Prison.
Foucault reflexiona sobre el cuidado del cuerpo, las reglas del matrimonio, las relaciones con las mujeres y con los otros varones así como la representación del placer y sus usos.
Así, para el autor, es en el refinamiento de las artes de vivir y de la inquietud de uno mismo donde se dibujan los preceptos de la reflexión moral médica y filosófica.
De esta manera, un doble fenómeno caracteriza a esta ética de los placeres: al tiempo que se intensifica el interés por la práctica sexual y sus efectos sobre el organismo, parece cada vez más necesario controlarla.
a review of sex and marriage as self-making technologies in the west prior to the cartesian cogito.
and there's this whole part about boys that i hesitated in mentioning in my review because i'm a faggot and i'm not quite sure how redundant it seems, reading it right now.
is redundant the appropriate word to describe a kind of excess?
i'm sure he covered it in this book, or maybe he did in the previous two, so basically this is the reason why one should not read these out of order.
The third volume of Foucault’s History of Sexuality charts the changes in discourse from the ancient Greece to imperial Rome.
Again examining the three fields of the body, the wife, and boys, he observes a strengthening of principles of sexual austerity.
In dietetics, the shift is characterized by broader “correlations between the sexual act and the body” (238) and greater apprehension regarding the ambivalence of its effects.
Finally, in erotics, abstinence shifts away from being a way of emphasizing the spiritual nature of love, and “a sign of an imperfection that is specific to sexual activity” (238).
Un ottimo excursus sul periodo romano. La cultura genera la sessualità, cioè conferisce spazio ad un'esogenza sociale e psicologica, e analizzare le modalità con cui si pone la sessualità classica ed i problemi che porta è senza dubbio illuminante. Peccato non aver potuto leggere una genealogia della sessualità: fermarsi alle porte del medioevo è stato come annusare un piatto e non poterlo gustare.
A somewhat plodding resolution to Foucault's expansive analysis of early Western sexuality. Though still insistent on a severe caesura between the sexual ethics of Rome's Golden age and our own, Foucault starts to lay the common thread that will eventually lead to our age's fixation on the exclusive evils of pleasure.
I would prefer to think that dreams about screwing my mother are not a sign of good fortune around the bend. But then again, I'm not living in Ancient Greek, which means I have internalized the incest taboo passed down by Christian Dogmas for centuries. Whew! I thought I was weird for having those dreams! Turns out I may have a great harvest this season! Yippee!
يتحدث كامو في هذا الكتاب عن تاريخ الجنسانية (الجنس) بين القرن 17 و20 ويناقش أيضا الإرتباطات الإجتماعية والسياسية والصراع السلطوي، ناهيك عن مسألة الإهتمام بالذات والفلسفات القديمة حول هذه المسألة، فبالنسبة له الإهتمام بالذات هو وسيلة للإهتمام بالآخر. يتحدث أيضا عنا أفكاره في مسألة السلطة والحكم وقول الصراحة أو الحقيقة ومميزاتها.
I thought this was good. Years ago I read volume one closely and concluded that it was a pretty terrible book, at least the first 80% of it. Now I've recently finished reading volumes 2 and 3, which I found interesting, and conclude that it's a shame the first volume is so bad because I'll bet many readers are dissuaded from reading the remaining two volumes, which are good.
I've found each volume of the trilogy to decrease in it's ability to grip me and want me to devour it- but I still found myself sufficiently interested to not add it to the pile of "books I say I've read because I read most of it". After the kick in the nuts of volume 1, volume three is a slight slap to the ear but even that can grab your attention.
I felt like a lot of it was over my head, or will reveal itself with another reading. I still found it really interesting and expanded my awareness of the worlds of ancient Greece and Rome. Like, the ways that our experiences are still similar or have changed drastically especially in terms of love, pleasure, marriage and sexuality.
Both Parts 2 and 3 lack the importance of History of Sexuality Part 1 because of their failure to thoroughly consider Roman and Greek sexuality as separate and the failure to consider female sexuality. History of Sexuality Part 1, though, is one of the important books I have ever read and complete pervades how I conceive of sex, power, and discourse.
يشكل على فوكو كونه يبحث في نصوص سابقة وصلتنا تتحدث في ما يود هو البحث فيهلا أشعر أن هذه النصوص كافية لإتمام باحث كامل عن الجنسانيةوتحليلها وحده لا يشكّل بحثا عن موضوع كبير قد يسبق تكوّنه العصور التي يبحث فيها فوكو .
Fantastic book. As a NT scholar, Foucault goes a long way to help situate the sexual ethics one finds in early Christianity (and even beyond). I kept a running list of primary texts that Foucault engages, which should keep me occupied for quite some time.
This series was the most difficult for me to read of all Foucault topics but I endured through it.
