https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4570679-going-too-far
And I'm not even the type of person who likes to read books that sound hot.
But if there's one thing that annoyed me to no end in this book, was how many times the author felt the need to tell us that John has dark eyes.
Jesus.Okay so, let's not keep talking about the eyes like Echols did.
Let's talk a little about the writing.
Let's talk about this chick.
(And let's not talk about the scene where he tells the main character that smoking pot is way more harmful than cigarettes.
This was my first time reading Jennifer Echols, I’d seen her book around, but for some reason I never had the initiative to pick on up.
I think originally I’d saw the title as Boy In Blue or something along those lines, but after reading the novel I think that the title, Going Too Far, fits it perfectly.I was expecting to like this novel, I figured it would be good, what I hadn’t expected was how much I was going to like it!
The whole story is about these two different people with their own individual baggage who come together and fall in love.
I see them in their future relationship as fighting often but having lots of make-up sex.
I can see why she started having panic attacks and had difficulty coming to terms with what was ahead for her life.
It sort of makes sense but I just didn't feel it was enough to justify his current behavior, especially when what he did to Meg when she pushed him to edge...There was no false advertising in the descriptions of this book.
It was an absolute pleasure to read I couldn't get enough of it.Echols writing style is just perfect to me, it's humorous and detailed and random, everything I love.
And John, man, I loved reading about this boy.
I don't even know what to say.I loved reading about John and Meg on night patrol and watching Meg realize she's falling in love with him.
There is a great push and pull between them that keeps you on edge, needing to know where this is going to go.I'm at a loss for words of how to express how much I loved this book!
I couldn't see his face, but I could tell from the way he walked that he was a teenager." "I knew it was too good to be true when it got even better." There is even an instance when Meg can hear John blush.
No, that goes to the most retardedly used, beat-the-reader-over-the-head-with-it metaphor I have ever read.Meg has blue hair.
Even more than we're told about John's dark eyes, we're reminded about Meg's blue hair.And the thing is, she acts like it's a freaking stamp on her forehead proclaiming her a lecher or something.
Meg constantly tells herself John can't like her because she has blue hair.
So, I asked my hubz and we came up with Columbiana.I don't know if that's the right town but it's the only place we could think of real close to Birmingham in the right county that might have farm animals.The story also talks a heap load about Birmingham Junction.
(University of Alabama Birmingham) Well, we have a ton of those trade school deals and I guess UAB is the closest UNIVERSITY (but we have like 5 Jeff State branches)...
does she not want to talk about the Birmingham Mayor going to prison too?
This is the one in BirminghamI really wanted to really really like this book but the story line was just too floofy for me.
Re-read: HOLLY SHIT I LOVED IT JUST AS MUCH IF NOT MORE AS THE FIRST TIME I READ THIS BACK IN 2011 HBJFGKDAFLKSGHJBFLANFirst time reading it: April 29, 2011I’m going to say a few things before I start my review:A long while a go I stopped reading.
I started the firsts chapters of this book and then I went to do other stuff and I simply couldn’t keep my mind off from the story, it was all I could think of; but I really was busy that day so I had to leave it at that.
Thank You :)Now I’ll start my review:Going Too Far is a story that circles around the relationship between Meg and John.
I tried reading this one last year and couldn't get into it.
The heroine was annoying and immature but I'm so glad I tried it again because I loved it.Yes, it may be slightly cliched and predictable, BUT it was so easy to read and the character growth was written really well, so much so that I ended up loving the heroine.
A small part of me does wish that their sex was written into the story, but that's just cause I'm a dirty perv who wants to read about all John's muscles flexing.
And yeah, so much for putting this off because, seriously, from all the books I've read of Jennifer Echols this is the one I so enjoyed the most!
It was my first time to encounter a really rebellious heroine and at first I didn't think I would be able to love her but again, I was wrong because I really did love Meg!
It was great to see Meg and John growing and learning, caring and loving each other and eventually letting go of their past.
It was touching and emotional and those few words Meg said was just so beautiful.
Normally five stars for me are rated for books that have a huge emotional impact or connection, or challenge me (or are just plain and simply awesome, or I read in my childhood and I'm totally nostalgic for).
However, I would recommend it to romance readers and people who love contemporary YA.And I think it's a really beautiful novel about two damaged people learning to love and overcome their fears.
(hide spoiler)]If you like contemporary YA romances you'll probably love this.
However, unlike John Green, Jennifer Echols doesn't succeed in capturing the feel of a small southern town.
I'm somewhat familiar with Jennifer Echol's books, having read Forget You. I wasn't too impressed, but I was willing to give Echols another try.
This trope irritates me to no end because it's like the author tries to makes you feel bad for not sympathizing with his or her characters.
Meg and John are supposed to be somewhat intelligent, yet their big aspiration is to go to UAB.
Meg and John aren't the only intelligent people that have graced the southern states.
While Eric's hot-shot lawyer father gets him off, the other three are made to spend the March Break week with the ambulance, fire brigade and police - and guess which one Meg gets.Not only does she have to spend five nights on the graveyard shift riding around in a cop car, but she has to spend them with the very same cop who arrested them: John After.
It's John who breaks through that exterior, and him we follow as Meg learns to accept herself.
Somewhere out there, John and Meg are living their lives.
In addition, the dialog between Meg and John (Officer After) was actually pretty steamy at times and fun to read throughout.About the story...
Arrested for public intoxication and trespassing in a restricted zone (a situation that could have resulted in their certain death) all but one of them are put on probation and each are required to ride the night shift for one week with a patrol officer, emergency medical technician and fire fighters to witness firsthand the dangers of poor and/or dangerous situations.
When Meg is assigned to Office After, the policeman that arrested them, she’s determined to unnerve him and make him pay for ruining her senior spring break plans.
3.5 stars I wondered what it would be like to see the dark blue sky above us not as heavy drapes of cloth, the top of a circus tent, but as an infinite expanse. As everybody else saw it.  In Going Too Far, Jennifer Echols has crafted a compelling story about the connection between two characters who are, in some ways, the very antithesis of each other. Meg won’t be tied down, literally. Resistant to plans, authority, confined spaces – she combats restrictions and small-town claustrophobia with p
I wondered what it would be like to see the dark blue sky above us not as heavy drapes of cloth, the top of a circus tent, but as an infinite expanse.
In Going Too Far, Jennifer Echols has crafted a compelling story about the connection between two characters who are, in some ways, the very antithesis of each other.
Going Too Far is an incredibly engaging read.
(hide spoiler)] While a major selling point is clearly the romance aspect, there was also greater substance here than I was expecting, in the exploration of Meg and John as nuanced individuals.Going Too Far ended up being not quite what I had expected, in a good way.
Going Too Far delineates the story of Meg and Officer John After.
John decided to stay in the city and fight crime - so when he catches Meg on a dangerous bridge drinking alcohol and doing drugs, the two collide in a way that creates romantic chemistry and sexual tension.Going Too Far was my first MTV book, so I wasn't sure what to expect besides some scandalous stuff going on.
sexy cop romance story.
It felt like a typical romance novel with a couple of interesting plot twists thrown in.If you're looking for a young-adult love story that doesn't require much thought, Going Too Far may be the book for you.
Snark, sexual tension, brilliant dialogue...Cop John After and the blue-haired-girl-felon.Definitely a guilty pleasure :)
All her characteristics, her dialogue, her motivations and her decisions are all clear to understand and as such you are just plain sucked into her interplay with John After.Why do I love Jenn Echols' narrative?"My knee radiated heat.
I did at times want to know more about John but the quick pace swept away any reservations I may have possessed.Echols has attempted a different kind of narrative with this novel.
I am more hungry than ever to get my hands on future Jenn Echols works and want to congratulate her on a truly wonderful read that made me travel a gamut of emotions and invest in her tremendously real characters.
When I first started this, I thought a blue haired girl with issues and an hot cop as the hero... ehhh- but by the middle of the book you are so rooting for the both of them. Loved Officer After (John) and Meg grows on you as she grows up and they so belong together! Good read.
So here is what I thought of this book..
Short and Sweet This was a sweet romantic read.
The chemistry between Meg and John was so sweet.
There was one particular part int the book I loved that was so Meg."I leaned forward until my boobs sat on the table like a set of oversize salt and pepper shakers.
The tit table.".....
This book was a quick fun read great for weekend reading or something to take for a long ride.
I'm looking forward to reading more of her books
It didn't feel like a YA book except that the main character was so immature, selfish, and self-centered, and nothing gets explored in very much depth.
(view spoiler)[And would the cops really handcuff a girl who has just left her parent's car because she doesn't want treatment for leukemia?
(hide spoiler)] I didn't like Meg at all and I thought most of the scenarios were far-fetched and unconvincing.It also weirded me out our view of John kept switching from a very adult, responsible cop to a 19-year-old boy.
The characters I liked best were the secondary ones, so overall this one was just not a success for me.
So far, I’ve read 4 books by Jennifer Echols and somehow I always find myself frowning constantly while reading. I just don’t get the characters in her books. In my opinion they’re not behaving and thinking like normal people.I couldn’t identify with Meg at all and found her rather annoying. Both Meg and John were not authentic to me.The book wasn’t all bad, at times it was even enjoyable. I was looking for something light to kill some time and this purpose was served. I guess I just need to accept that I don’t like Echols' writing style.
*snort* For the last few years Meg has comfortably occupied the position of town Bad Girl, complete with rapidly changing hair color (currently blue) and revolving door of lousy boyfriends (seriously, her latest makes Charlie Sheen look like a real catch).
Meg pulls the cop who chewed her out that night--Officer After--a 19-year-old hometown boy whose only ambition in life appears to be busting the butts of errant high schoolers and who never dreams of leaving.
Over the course of the next five days, Meg and Officer After learn a few things about each other that complicate both of their long-term plans.At first these two seem like fairly straightforward stereotypes.
If you don't want to be spoiled, run for your life now.I have to admit to rolling my eyes at least a total of seventeen times while reading this.To say the least I wasn't impressed.Five things,- I love tragic pasts.
Meg had no idea going out onto that bridge would hurt John.
John knew perfectly well that his actions would hurt Meg. That's not acceptable.- There wasn't really a character in this book that I cared about.
Well, okay, maybe I'd care a little then, but you get my point.It wasn't terrible by any means, but it's not something I'd recommend or read again.
I did think John's reaction to it was pretty funny.
I also didn't believe John's behavior, it didn't seem to flow with how they were throughout the rest of the book.
Does anyone know how one "sighs through his nose"?
A lot of times during the book Meg and John would laugh, laugh, laugh at a joke and I was stuck thinking "I guess I had to be there" or "must be an inside joke" because it was not funny to me.And if that town was as small as they said it was I don't.
That's how she ends up drunk on a railroad bridge with the town rich-boy drug dealer in the middle of the night.
Instead, she has to spend her vacation on night shift with the very cop who arrested her plus work her usual day shift (for free, as usual, too) at her parents' greasy spoon diner.Echols is clearly trying for an edgier, more realistic novel than her usual fluffy romances here, but for me it falls flat.
Like Meg, John has a hidden agenda for his actions, but it's not revealed until the very end.Many readers will likely be able to ignore these issues, but I could not.
This book was sweet, sexy, witty, powerful and real.
It had such a important message on how to let go and I think alot people can relate to this story in one way or another.
The plot moved quickly and was never predictable and it had a great ending that left me smiling.Meg is such an awesome character.
I liked her instantly and throughout the book she grew so much as person as did John.
They were both complex character and were well written.
Together they had great chemistry.
I agree with other reviews that this book was much more than just a love story.
Loved it.
This coming of age novel really hits on a great deal of issues and after you finish reading Meg’s journey and why she acts the way she does, you will have a big smile on your face.
What is her real reason for lashing out?Both have deep seated issues and when John and Meg talk about what they’re hiding and what they’re afraid of, it’s explosive and will open their eyes to things they didn’t see before, where they will come to depend on one another and from that love will form between them.Going Too Far is a great story about opposites attracting.
But Officer After is not the middle aged man with wife and kids at home like Meg had thought, he’s a nineteen year old boy; a boy she went to school with.The storyline of the book is very simple, it’s the characters that make this book something extraordinary.
Meg needs to leave town, where as John has decided to stay.
The relationship between Meg and John was multi layered and I was fascinated with their interactions with each other and how it was both simple yet complex at the same time.This is a book about love, loss, understanding and hope.
Let's start with the classic bad girl meets good boy story and then turn it on its head with characters who totally rock and are so much more than they seem.Aaaannndddd BEGIN!On June 7th (graduation night), Meg is getting out of the small Alabama town she was born and raised in with plans to never, ever come back.
That is until she gets caught by Mr. By The Book Officer John After.
Sometimes I felt like I was watching MTV with all the teeny lingo, but since I enjoyed this book so much, I really didn't care.
There is so much more to this book than I'd expected and it really blew me away.I really enjoyed Echols writing - It was enjoyable and more complex than I thought it'd be.
The characters were definitely individual, but not very 'obvious' - there was continuously more and more things being revealed about both Meg and John, some things that I didn't expect.
At some points, I found Meg to be a little frustrating, but most of the time, despite her extremely rebellious nature, I sympathised with her and connected with her.
