https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2753843-revelations
The lore gets invented along the way just to explain some random events without ever being mentioned later on: apparently now vamps can morph into animals and even fog, but then why does Mimi have to follow her brother/bondmate in her black Bentley; vamps can cross states in minutes, then why do Schyler and Jack have their meetings in Manhattan where everybody knows them and they don't even bother to fog themselves up or something; vampires live on blood, but spend thousands of dollars on meals they apparently don't have any taste for; vampires can devour books within seconds and yet they fret over passing their school exams.
**POSSIBLE SPOILERS**Ok, what can I say?
I love this book :D Seriously.
Melissa isn't afraid to put twists in her writing and kill her main characters.
And I wasn't that surprised when Lawrence basically said that it'll come down to a fight between Bliss and Schuyler.
And I was really sad when Schuyler broke it off with Jack, I read that chapter on bluebloodsbooks.com and it made me soo sad because Jack really does L-O-V-E her.
And I hope that her and Jack find a way to make it work in other books.
Because Ollie won't last forever and Schuyler might.
Okay, I just have to say that I was really bugged to find out that this is NOT the last book in the Blue Bloods series!
Apparently there are 9 books planned in total that was supposed to have been divided into 3 triologies.
But this first "triology" is actually going to have 4 books.
There is still a lot that I know I don't know (and most likely more that I don't know I don't know) but there was also some really good and interesting new info that revealed.
I am very interested to see how this story plays out.
DnfSo the first two books were okayish, and I was really looking forward to this one, because I noticed that the writing was improving.And then it just went downhill. Like, REALLY down the hill. All the way to the bottom.The reason for that? I  HATE  Jack. All I could think while reading this book wasJack and Jill went up the hill to fetch a pail of waterJack fell down and broke his crownAnd I couldn't have laughed harder
This book was also just still a lot of fun because there was tons of relationship drama and I am trash for that.My ONLY issue is that while the most important thing was revealed to ONE character and the reader, it wasn't exposed to the rest of the characters yet so it was a bit disappointing because there is still SO much that the characters need to realize and get together!!!
It was a nice balance of drama and plot, but it’s hard to discuss without ruining anything because honestly the things that happen in this one are really important to the entire series, so I guess I’ll just leave it at that.
I loved the first two in the series which i was suggested to read by my cousin.
It felt like gossip girl met vampires and I was slightly put down over various facts about how things were written which is a horrid side-effect after reading Twilight because you get that notion that all vampire books are like that, eek.
During the time i spent reading this book i grew more and more frustrated and complacent.
Often times I had to re-read parts of the book to make sense of what was happening.
I loved the previous two books, but Revelations really puts Masquerade and Blue Bloods to shame.
I dont even know how to express my excitement about this book and the next edition that should be released soon ^_^ if you read Blue Bloods and/or Masquerade and weren't too fussed, do yourself a favour and read Revelations before making up your mind.
Now Im at a point where I dont want Schuyler to end up with Jack, but also not really with Oliver - he came across as a total dick on that file.
To be honest, that huge one at the end caught me off guard, and also was a nice twist, but the book just sucks (oh look how funny I am).I actually read this on the airplane, on a flight from Seattle to California.
I can't pinpoint anything in particular that I couldn't stand, since I flew through this book (hahahaha I was reading this on an airplane), and it was a couple days ago.
I couldn't bring myself to care about these angsty problems these teenagers go through.
I couldn't bring myself to care about anything.
This kind of felt like a filler book.
Just like the last book.
(Link: http://vampirekiki.deviantart.com/art...)After finishing the first two books I couldn’t wait for the public library to buy the rest of the books so I bought the four Blue Bloods books and read them in one go.
Even though it’s a bit puzzling to see having a luxurious life seemingly being the only thing that most of the Blue Blood vampires care about in book 1 and 2, but things improve a lot in book 3 when things heat up and the evil doers rush in for the kill, and the struggle for survival begins!
Everything changes when Lawrence, Sky’s grandfather, is called to go to Rio; he suddenly stops sending Sky messages and the whole Committee is called there as well, but when Sky finds Lawrence and he tells her nothing is wrong, they begin to wonder.
I can’t wait to read the next book that follows it and hope if those secrets are revealed.
I sure hope Melissa De La Cruz will include this in her next and after reading the past other books, I’m sure she will.
It's usually a mistake for a silly but fun YA serious to breach the boundaries of frivolity and delve into proper drama.
Occasionally it works, as in Richelle Mead's awesome Blood Promise, which was spooky and sad and took the Vampire Academy series into properly solemn territory.As it turns out, Melissa de la Cruz is no Richelle Mead.
The drama in Revelations is forced.
The one thing Melissa de la Cruz really had going for her--besides some kind of psychic connection with Cecily von Ziegesar--was a decent grasp on the historical and theological underpinnings of the story.
Melissa de la Cruz--learn to write decent dramatic scenes or perish.
I'm glad that I read this book again.
I thought I remembered this one but I was wrong about so much in it.
Some of the things happened sooner rather than later like I thought.
Other things I just forgot about.I still HATE Mimi but then again I'm not sure we really are supposed to like her.
One hat I forgot happened sooner than I remembered.
I'm just glad to know that things won't stay the way they ended in this.I'm still glad that I'm enjoying this series.
When I started re-reading it I remembered that the farther into the series it went the better it got.
There was Schuyler, then Bliss (who I actually liked, and was depressed to find out she's Lucifer's daughter; by the way, what's up with that?
Although the concept was very good, I now know that I either like things like Harry Potter, The Inheritance Cycle, Lord of the Rings (which I haven't read yet, but is obviously epic fantasy), or books by Meg Cabot.
I now realize this may not seem like the orderly review I promised, and I hope I haven't disrupted anyone's thinking process, but this is what I think of the book, and I honestly don't know if I will read any of the others.
The main plot throughout the series involved the Silver Bloods- those vampires corrupted to the side of Lucifer.That being said, I was let down by this third installment.
The first book set the world of the Blue Bloods up well and did a great job establishing the conflict amongst their community.
We spent well over a hundred pages talking about Mimi and Jack's lavish bonding plans and fashion shows; why is the plot crammed into the very end of the book?
I like where the plot ended up and think that it could make for a very interesting fourth installment, but I don't like how it got there.
But back to Schuyler, who is caught up in the whole fiasco as a "new soul" and thus does not have her soul twin like all the rest of them - she struggles with two suitors, and clearly she is going to do the Right Thing eventually, I'm just not sure which Right Thing.Meanwhile the corruption in the ranks has left me floundering - I don't know who is what side anymore, and one of my favorite characters is, inadvertantly, the enemy.
Lawrence and a small team of Venators fly south to investigate, but when the Conclave announces these Blue Bloods are in trouble and Schuyler loses contact with her grandfather, the worse is suspected.
As the inevitable battle between the Blue Bloods and Silver Bloods looms even closer, Schuyler will have to determine who's friend and who's foe if she and the ones she loves are to survive.
Revelations is the third installment in Schuyler's adventures, and the war between the Blue Bloods and Silver Bloods is going from bad to worse.
Zzzzz.Ok, so the first two books were entertaining, the idea of Vampires as fallen angels pretty interesting.
Most of the book is written with someone closing their eyes and then weeks have passed and you dont have a connection of what your character has been up to.
I didnt like the "twist" and I use that word freely because I knew right away who the "other sister" was going to be and that she was going to be evil.And all of the sudden she is inlove with both Olliver AND Jack?
Cliff Hanger: yes!!!!!Rating: 4 StarsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  8Plot:  8Characters: 7World Building: 7Flow:  7Series Congruity: 6Writing: 7Ending: 8Total: In DeptBest Part: So much plot development!Worst Part: Still can't figure out what's going on!Thoughts Had: Damn you Mimi!; Dylan is messed up!; What just happened?!?ConclusionContinuing the Series: yesRecommending: yesShort Review: Okay, still can't figure out what is going on with Mimi nor Bliss.
The end was awesome, but it was hard to follow.
I know who died, but the action was so hard to follow.
I would have freaked out when i found out what they did to Dylan, totally BS there.
I also cant believe that Lawrence died, thats probably why the silver bloods keep killing her family so that she'll feel lonely and have no one to turn to, but in order to do that they'd have to kill Oliver and Jack.
And come on we all know that Bliss is Schuylers sister even though they sound like they look nothing alike and oh sorry for my rambling I just wanted to say that everyone should read this book its way different that any other vampire book and dont try to compare it to twilight theyre barely alike besides the whole torn between her best friend and someone shes not supposed to be with.
'Revelations' was a "meh" book for me compared to the previous novels in the series.
It was alright but I sincerely hoped for a better plot/story to got for it as it is the main reason I am enjoying the series thus far.
I DID give the series a lower rating because it didn't continue with the epicness of book 2, and I am not ashamed to admit it.
Characters were enchanting as always and I am still rooting for a couple to officially declare themselves in the following novel.
Congratulations to Melissa de la Cruz on publishing her third novel in the series!
I wonder what these Paths are that Lawrence was talking about at the end. I'm intrigued by the mystery of Bliss's parentage, and the other mysteries presented. However, this seemed a little too focused on Jack/Schuyler romance than the other plot lines. Still want to know what will happen next.
This is literally a godly clusterfrick. I really hope that Bliss can resist from going completely dark & that Schuyler and Jack will get their happily ever after soon.
Sometimes a short book is a great way to pass a lazy afternoon without feeling a huge burden, but in this case, I almost felt like it hampered some of the storyline with so many rotating viewpoints.
I'm fine with it going either way, since if I have a burning urge to go read a sex scene, I can pick up an adult book.
Sheesh...just make it clear one way or the other!Nothing about either of those complaints is a big deal because the book was still a lot of fun.
It was a nice, luxurious break!
I know which book I’ll turn to whenever I feel like needing a luxurious break.There was too much information.
She has a very nice heart and is a very sweet child!)- Dylan is killed by Lawrence.
Lawrence is killed by Lucifer (Disguised as Dylan)-Lucifer is freed from under the statue of ‘Christ the redeemer’.-Mimi and Jack are back in a wink again at the end.(Putting everything in book (and there was a lot)between Schuyler and Jack in trash.-Ollie’s wait up paid off-Schuyler and Ollie are in love again.
(hide spoiler)]4.5 stars for the fast paced, tight, informative read!
With the third book in the series, we get more of the rich history that has transpired between the characters during their past cycles but all of that is overshadowed by a lot of ridiculous teenage drama.
I seriously felt like the whole series took a trip to the land of soap operas.
The revelations at the end were pretty decent, though predictable as hell - (view spoiler)[Bliss being Lucifer & (view spoiler)[Allegra's (hide spoiler)] daughter, Leviathan being released from hell...
(hide spoiler)] It was definitely a nail biting end.
This series just keeps getting better and better.
I am so glad that one of my friends recommended this to me because if she hadn't I would have missed out on a wonderful series that is so imaginative.
The history behind everything that happens throughout these books is so detailed and unique that I have to wonder why I don't hear more about these books.
I have never come across a book that is like this one and it is refreshing to read something new.
To put it simply you should read this.I can not wait to see what happens in the next installment!
I think the story here is getting a little convoluted.
Maybe because it's had been a while between reading the second and third, but I thought the relationship with Jack was odd.
They weren't at the point of having secret apartments to meet in from what I remember of the last one.And while this book did focus a lot on Bliss, the character of interest for me in the last one, I thought the revelation about her was not well set up.
I could see the few places where hints were kind of set up for it, but it still seemed out of nowhere.I'm still interested enough, though, to continue the series and see where it goes.
I despise most of the characters in this series. Schuyler is a wimp. Mimi is one dimensional. Jack is arrogant and selfish. Etc, etc... If I continue this series to the end, it'll only be because I'm doing a series challenge where I need to finish as many series as possible before the end of the year. By far this is my least favorite of Melissa de la Cruz's series.
Dediğim gibi,annemin alışveriş listesini okumak daha eğlenceli.

