https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18304322-dumplin
This book is vastly inferior to the spectacular Future Perfect, which sends the message of being comfortable in your own body in a far better way.The main character in this book is fat.
Millie and Amanda together are basically one giant moving target that says MAKE FUN OF US.Amanda’s legs are uneven, so she wears these thick corrective shoes that make her look like Frankenstein.
Again, a book should make me feel for the character; the only thing the interestingly named Willowdean does for me is grate on my nerves.
Having her best friend with her is the last thing Willow wants.
Many times, I'm thinking "yeah, that was quite a nice book" or "that had an important message" but I don't feel any emotional connection to it.The thing about Dumplin' is that it contains a great message.
This is an extremely body-positive book, which is a great thing.
She also opened up an all new can of worms when she decided to include so many references to my beloved Dolly Parton (yes, I love her!
But more about that later.But I just think a book needs to have a little more than this to draw you in - it needs to be moving, thrilling, exciting or (as I thought this would be) funny.
If this book were a movie, we'd all be at Julie Murphy's slumber party piled in front of the TV in our jammies, both screaming with laughter and clutching each other the minute someone leaned in for a kiss.
The best stories let you live for awhile in someone else's skin and allow you to experience the world in way you haven't before.
I loved the everyday experiences of the first part of the book, when Will is going to work and school and dealing with drifting apart with her BFF, and struggling with her sadness over her aunt's recent death and her mom's imperviousness to her feelings.
Look at how you've grown!" from uncles and aunts who drop by every 2 months, after having to look for pants two to three sizes larger because I gained more weight again, after having seen your friends get hit on and try out sexy-as-fuck clothes and look so effortlessly fabulous, and you were stuck with pants and loose shirts, it started getting old, and fast.It came to that point where whenever I heard the term mataba (fat) or malaki (big), I'd get so insecure and anxious.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/BUUUUUUUUUMP!!!!!!!!!! Because this premieres on Netflix tonight and I'm so excited to go home, put my PJs on, cozy up in bed, turn on the boobtube and shove my face full of what I lovingly call "diabetes in a bag" like my faaaaaaaaar removed teenage self . . . .  ORIGINAL REVIEW:Most of my friends gave this one a “meh” rating, but I FREAKING LOOOOOOOOVED it . . .  They obviously all read it wrong (j/k). They also might have actually p
Willowdean (or Dumplin’ as her momma calls her) is a plus-sized 16 year old who lives waaaaaay down South in Texas with her momma, a former beauty queen and current organizer of her small town’s annual local pageant .
It was perfect until Will realizes that Bo will be switching schools and apparently their summer romance wasn’t quite what she thought it was .
It’s time every girl realizes .
“There’s a beauty queen in that cute, little fat girl.”“No,” I say.
“That cute little fat girl IS a beauty queen.”
2.5 stars   "If you're gonna go, then goShe said to me on the phoneSo tired of hearin' all yourBoy problemsIf you're gonna stay then stayHe's not gonna change anywaySo tired of hearin' all yourBoy problems" Dumplin' is about Dolly Parton and I opened with a Carly Rae Jepsen song. One, because I'm not familiar with Dolly's music. Two, Boy Problems describes Dumplin' perfectly. I'd wager half the book is angst over boys and romance instead of the promised pageant revolution. Willowdean is fat—and
Two, Boy Problems describes Dumplin' perfectly.
I'd wager half the book is angst over boys and romance instead of the promised pageant revolution.
Nearing the school year, she breaks up with him because she can't stand the stares that comes with a fat girl dating a cute guy.Here's where Dumplin' falls apart for me.
And joins a beauty pageant to show 'em fat-bottomed girls make the rockin' world go round.Willowdean doesn't join the pageant until halfway through and that's after endless fluffy moments and boring everyday occurrences.
My nerves hum and this moment when my body feels both chaotic and determined is what was missing with Mitch."
I was really excited to read this because I love reading books about fat girls, but her size was rarely mentioned.
I know the book isn't supposed to focus on her weight, but I found it a little less relatable than i'd like because it failed to give descriptions of her size.
Like at one point near the end of the book, it was talking about how she pulled her knees up to her chest and the fat girl in me just went nuh-uh.
4.25 stars!    “Find out who you are and do it on purpose” -Dolly Parton   Dumplin’ was one of those books I devoured. When I listen to an audio book, I know I’m really into it when I have great books sitting on my kindle waiting for me to read, but I’m finding inconsequential tasks to do around the house just so I can listen. It took me less than 2 days to listen to this book, which is super fast for me. There are so many parts in this story that were relatable to me. I adored our heroine, Ms.
Our leading lady has an ex-beauty queen mother, her best friend Ellen, and an addiction to all things Dolly Parton.
Willowdean doesn’t have the same body most of her friends do.
I wouldn’t say she’s fine or happy with it, she has insecurities just like everyone else, but slowly she embraces who she is.
I grew to love this group of girls and the effect they had on Willowdean.
There was so much I loved about this book.
And I liked the way it ended, I did… but I wanted more!
Probably one of the best YA’s I’ve read this year.
I NEED MORE.I really REALLY liked this book.
The message is SUPER SOLID and fantastic, and we need more books like this.Will is an incredible character, and all the supporting characters are so great as well.
I really loved Millie and her ability to shine so bright no matter what anyone else thought.
I can't handle more of it sorry (and I can't say what it is because spoilers.Overall really great book with an amazing message - it doesn't matter what you look like, but who you are.
YAS! Here's my video review - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x6Yu0...
Dear Julie Murphy,
I didn't agree with all the characters actions...actually, Willowdean (the protagonist) rubbed me up the wrong way A LOT, but I can't deny how real she felt.
And that growing different and up doesn't have to mean growing apart (though sometimes it can).+ And how it smacked down cliches: like jocks aren't always stupid, and the silent broody guy isn't just beautiful and sexy -- sometimes he's a jerk too.+ How the protagonist was pretty much a normal average person -- school, work, TV, tada.
When society views you as looking "wrong" (like Willowdean is "fat") then you're going to be plagued by anxieties.
and I know that fat girls are supposed to be allergic to pools or whatever, but I love swimming… I know people stare, but they can’t blame me for wanting to cool off…What about having huge, bumpy thighs means that I need to apologize?
Slowly turned into…constant judgement ???!!??I’m fat, but Millie’s the type of fat that requires elastic waist pants because they don’t make pants with buttons and zippers in her size.
I won’t be one-half of the couple who everyone stares at and asks, //How did she get him?// Omg a hot guy likes you???
But you don’t want him to like you in public???
I was kinda iffy on whether or not I was going to like the beauty pageant parts of the story but thankfully there were some good moments with that and also the other things going on in the main character's life.What I loved most about the book was Willowdean wasn't perfect.
I look back on growing up and even though I like to think of myself as a good person there were definitely times when I acted in a way that didn't paint me in the best light.
So kudos to the author for having a main character with flaws!I absolutely loved how Mitch factored into the story.
Overall a really cute and fun story with a great moral!Video review soon (once school slows down a bit)
Dumplin’ is the story of Willowdean Dickson, a fat girl from a small town that hosts the oldest beauty pageant in Texas.
After the sudden death of her beloved aunt, Will decides to honor her memory by signing up for the pageant.
She wants to try something that her aunt had always denied herself because of her own insecurities about her weight.
Now Will suddenly finds herself contending with becoming a beauty queen, her crazy pageant mother, an angry best friend, two cute boys… and maybe a small revolution.
Her internal monologue was filled with her judging other people; Millie, for example, who Willow points out as 'the type of fat that requires elastic waist pants because they don't make pants with buttons and zippers in her size'.
(I should point out that I don't think Willow is a bad character because she is insecure or flawed.
It was a really unlikable trait for her character to have.)It also frustrated me to no end how when Ellen decides to be supportive and enter the pageant with her, Willow gets all shitty and tells her to drop out.
People spend too much time thinking they’re too fat or too thin, eyes too far apart or too close together, teeth too big or too small, skin too dark or too pale.
She rocks!The book is another eye-opening experience for me because I’m often guilty of commenting on other people’s body especially when I think they’re too thin.
Simple comments like “You really should eat more” seems sweet and harmless to me until I’ve read the book reminding me that I am in no position to comment on anyone’s body unless it’s mine.
While I did not love it I did thoroughly enjoy reading it.Willowdean (more often referred to as Will) is one of the fat girls in her town.
She does this because she thinks her Will is going to be happier if she loses weight.Now with school beginning the pageant is also right around the corner.
Her entering the pageant inspires 3 other girls to enter with her.This is probably one of the most inspiring books I have ever read!
I would have liked to read more about the pageant.
"I’m fat. It’s not a cuss word. It’s not an insult. At least it’s not when I say it." I love this charming book about courage, set in South Texas with a Dolly Parton soundtrack. I was gonna say body image, but truth is, body image is not the central theme of this book. It figures some of course, but it’s more about the courage to retain your shape when the world dictates you to be another.Willowdean Dickson,Dumplin' to her former beauty queen Mom, is completely fine being fat (not a pejorative
She’s happy with the fact that she wears drawstring skirts instead of pants for her Harpy’s uniform and being a third-wheel to her bestfriend, El and secretly crushing on fry-cook hottie Private School Bo. She's content with her life until she starts having make-out sessions with Private School Bo. Instead of getting that confidence boost when a crush likes you back, Will finds herself sunk in self-doubt and insecurity.At this point in the book, I also began to doubt myself, am I really as open-minded as I think I am, or am I just a bloody hypocrite?
Good thing Julie Murphy isn’t like me, she believes that the fat, the unevenly legged, the bucktoothed girls (and boys) also deserve the hot guy (or girl) and the crown.In her quest to regain the confidence lost from her summer fling with Bo, she decides to join Miss Teen Blue Bonnet.
I cheated. 🙉 I watched it. 🙈 I LOVED IT! 🙊 Netflix’s Dumplin’ is SO GOOD! I’m definitely reading the book so I can live it over and slowly savor it :):):)
‪I cheated. 🙉 I watched it. 🙈 I LOVED IT! 🙊 Netflix’s Dumplin’ is SO GOOD! I’m definitely reading the book so I can live it over and slowly savor it :):):)‬
And I have to say, while I still think Willowdean is honestly the worst, I didn’t hate her with the fire of a thousand suns like I used to.
She sucked, but the rest of the book was pretty dang cute and I really liked everyone BUT Willowdean lol.
I hated the book but refused to say so lmao how times change!Original read 9/22/15: I liked this, but I'd be lying if I said I didn't want more from it :/ I feel like there was simultaneously too much and not enough going on.
I feel like I'm being too negative.
This is a book where Willowdean, a fat girl who knows she’s fat and owns her body as such, but it’s a story about grief, about family, and about Dolly Parton impersonators.
There is a sweet relationship that develops here, and I thought the experiences Willowdean had as a fat girl were realistic, honest, and vulnerable — a key element that so many of these books lack.Willowdean has a real voice, and her voice isn’t 100% confident all the time.
And those things rang so painfully, authentically true.We rarely get stories where the fat girl gets to be funny, have friendships, have romances, and have challenges unrelated to her body/”health” of her body.
Dumpling(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to HarperCollins and Edelweiss.) “Dolly Parton is singing to some mysterious Jolene who she thinks is more beautiful and more worthy than her, begging her not to take her man. It’s catchy and everyone knows the words, but to me, it's this reminder that no matter who you are, there will always be someone prettier or smarter or thinner." This was a YA contemporary romance story, about a girl who thou
This was a YA contemporary romance story, about a girl who thought she was too fat to have a relationship with a hot boy.I felt quite sorry for Willowdean in this story.
It wasn’t easy for her to be overweight in a place that loved it’s beauty queens, and the way she felt like she wasn’t good enough for the boy that she liked was also sad.
It was sad the way she felt like people would wonder why she was with Bo, and how she had managed to snag him when she was fat, and tried to sabotage the relationship because of that.
4.5 starsI enjoyed this book a lot more than I thought I would. A fun and fast read, it had some great body positive messages in it. I wish this book had been around when I was in high school.
For as long as Willow can remember, the only things that are certain in Clover City are its yearly beauty pageant, high school football and the loyalty of her best friend, Ellen.The latter shifts when the two friends start heading down different paths.
The other thing I especially appreciated was that Willow was a character that many young adults and adults can relate to.
Books like these and all of Ricki Lake’s movies are great tools that remind you that you have to love and accept yourself.
You know, there's not one thing I didn't like about this book.But the thing that stands out the most -- the thing that will cement this book for me as so, so good and so, so important -- is how much Willowdean has a real VOICE.
We make them make themselves disappear (and I say this as someone who has certainly seen the looks people give when you are climbing into an airplane seat or a bus seat and are made to shrink yourself, as to not take up space that you paid for and can fit perfectly within).
There's a lot of empowerment about being true to yourself and do things that you normally wouldn't do, but in the end, I just didn't really care about her because she rubbed me the wrong way.Overall, I would still recommend this to people looking for a good read.
RATING 2/5QUOTESI hate seeing fat girls on TV or in movies, because the only way the world seems to be okay with putting a fat person on camera is if they're miserable with themselves or if they're the jolly best friend.I'm done being your secret.It makes me feel good.
What started out as a beautiful book about body positivity soon became the main character, Willowdean, imposing her judgements on others and insulting them.
I completely understood her insecurities, but I expected her to have some character development by the end of the book.
But all I got at the end was a love triangle and angst instead of the promised pageant revolution.- Pointless plot.
Willowdean's life doesn't change from when the book started, she doesn't have any visible takeaways from the pageant.
