https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/109838.The_Conquerors
avalin ketabi bood ke az malraux khoondam.sale akahre dabirestan,1367.mikhkoob shodam.hanoozam yadam nemire.kheili ghashang bood
Hay en ella gran parte de la experiencia personal del autor, que también se ve reflejada en su otra obra citada, aunque esta me parece inferior.Están presentes (aunque no siempre explícitamente condenados, según convenga) los horrores de la guerra: torturas, traiciones, oportunismos, falta de escrúpulos.
El heroísmo queda en manos de las pobres clases combatientes: los ciudadanos más míseros.

3 1/2 stars
"when they wear mustaches"
If all of that is familiar to you, then most, if not all, of the difficulty involved in reading this book will disappear--I had to spend much of the early going looking up articles on Wikipedia and other sources in order to make sense of the action and location.In addition to Chinese history, there are other aspects of the book which might give some readers trouble; the unnamed narrator of the book has been invited by an old acquaintance to come to Canton to assist Comintern agents attempting to break the British hold on Hong Kong with a general strike.
Malraux's first novel, and it got him notoriety as a voice for the left wing. But its appeal is fundamentally political, and now that its ideological context isn't relevant anymore, it's not actually a terribly good novel.
این کتاب با نام "فاتحان" توسط قاسم صنعوی ترجمه شده و در 1361 چاپ و منتشر شده است.
I don't know why I can't read Malraux. His subjects interest me immensely, but I just can't get into the novels. I was blaming my French, but it is just as bad in English.
If Americans mention Malraux at all it's only Man's Fate, but he documented some crazy shit in Shanghai and Southeast Asia in a number of other novels, this one among them.
two stars, two stars, in comparison to man's fate. the 'ch'en' in this novel (i elect garine) is seemingly less spirited and less recklessly driven and less hungry than ch'en in man's fate.
Grand classique français.
