https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31352.Songmaster
this is truly my favorite scifi book of all time.
I really should qualify my sci-fi reviews since many of these are from my teenage years and it could be that if I read them now I'd be like huh what is this crap, like when you watch a cartoon movie like The Last Unicorn as an adult and think now why does that tree have boobs?
But I bet that since this is Orson Scott Card and he has so many crown masterpieces in his oeuvre that it is still good even as a jaded older person.
Me ha encantado, es francamente entretenido. El personaje protagonista recuerda a Ender y te atrapa igual que él en la narración de su vida.Pese a todo lo dicho sigo pensando q Scott Card no es buena gente...
I don't want to read this book again.
But mainly because I'm just not sure gay people WORK like that!This book is like several books crammed into one.
It has a terrible underlying message about being gay too.
OSC does NOT understand how gay people work!
I'm sorry, but most people don't look at a kid that way.
Gay dudes don't go, ooo, look at that kid *cringes* when he is 15 and frigging looks 11 OR 12!!!???
I'm not saying books have to be all avant guard but maybe I don't like having everything spelled out to me like I'm a little kid.
I know some reviewing this novel can see only hostility in its depiction of a relationship between two men--but I suspect they read this book in light of Card's remarks, and read into it what they were expecting.
I wouldn't belabor the issue so much in this review, except that Card's views on homosexuality (expressed in ways much more extreme than in the quote above) so shocked me because it seemed so contrary to the spirit of what I had read by him and knowing those views now taint how I read his books.
He has a great talent for reading and understanding people, and even loving his enemies.
What surprised me the most about this book was that the boy, now a teenager, has a brief romance with another man about half way through the book, and it is quite known that OSC is a colossal homophobe.
OSC said about this book, that the two men had genuine love for each other, but that he wanted to depict how being together ultimately destroyed them.
Happiness does not come to all.The boy went on to be a man and accomplished great things, but never loved again, had what he thought was a fulfilling life, and died old and happy.
Although episodic and graphically violent in places (Scott needs to figure out if he's writing a romance, a coming of age, murder mystery, or a horror novel and stick with it) I found the characters deep and interesting and the scenes dramatic (some a little over the top) and full of emotion.I could have over looked all that if it hadn't been for....(some may consider this a spoiler, but I would've wanted to know this before I picked it up).(view spoiler)[How is OSC going to bear his testimony of the LDS church principles in his blog (he's pretty good about that) and in public declare his pro-family stance on marriage and then publish a book like The Songmaster?In the last quarter of the book, for no reason that I can discern, he writes about a homosexual's struggle to be loyal to his wife and kid.
Nutshell: school for the Euterpean arts involves itself in galactic politics, leading to homophobic crimes, coups d'etat, &c., 20,000 years in the future.
Euterpeans know the victim status and the location of the grieving parents, but elect to ignore it all (69).
Advanced Euterpean arts produce "possession, ownership, dependence, self-surrender" in untrained listeners (80).
In addition to mind control, principal acquires superhuman kung-fu.
Not sure if the ineffectiveness is a result of the genre or the specimen.Bizarre random love triangle.
Love triangle reveals that principal is afflicted with an "orgasm torture" drug (300); his homosexual lover is castrated (312).
It was slow going because reading aloud always makes me yawn a lot, but the ending started to get ridiculous -- it took me several days to get the last three or four pages down, because I kept having to pause to let the tears well up, as they always do every time I read it.I have a much longer review (90% synopsis) on Everything2, from which I want to draw one sentence: You know it's not your usual story when a sentence like this suffices to describe Ansset's life as Emperor of the Galaxy:  So Ansset was crowned and reigned for 60 years.Hmmm, it must be four or five years now since I read it last.
I'm a fan of Card's 'Ender' books, and the synopsis to Songmaster was one of the most intriguing I've ever come across.
Why he feels the need therefore, to inject so much homosexuality into this story, is peculiar to say the least.
I suspect his purpose was twofold; to make the reader feel uncomfortable about homosexuality, and to portray gays having bad things happening to them.
This is symptomatic of the puritanical fear/obsession with homosexuality, that small-minded faith-crippled cretins such as himself suffer from.Despite his preposterous religious beliefs, Orson Scott Card is a very talented writer, and story teller, although you wouldn't know it from reading Songmaster.
This is a very, very strange novel.
I've been a fan of OSC since I was very young, and since I was a young teen I've been very disturbed by the almost violent intolerance of homosexuality he expresses in his essays.
No spoilers here, but suffice is to say that one of the only truly sympathetic characters in the novel is an openly gay man.
(This has been a favorite topic of mine for a while - there are explicitly queer characters in much of OSC's fiction, most often struggling against themselves - but there is nothing simple or moralizing in his portrayals, as there is in his essays.) More study is needed.
Orson is a homophobe and just proves it with his disgusting treatment of homosexuality in this dank and dark book.
The first supposedly gay character screws a woman first thing (I think Mrs Card is a little confused about the word homosexual).
The main character is a completely unrelatable character who finally gets up the nerve to bang a dude and is punished by pain instead of pleasure at orgasm and then forever rendered impotent.
The characters are all either perfect and punished for it or horrible people.
Icedragons Snowqueen wrote a better love story.
This stands easily among the best of Card's works, and although many reviewers have compared the protagonist, Ansset, to Card's best-known character, Ender Wiggin -- the similarities seem to me to be mostly superficial -- I found this to be very much of a piece with Card's two novels that preceded it: Hot Sleep, and especially A Planet Called TreasonOf all Card's characters, Anssett is surely most similar to Lanik Mueller.
Both Anssett and Lanik were raised in privilege, with the expectation of performing some large duty, but each found his life twisted by circumstances beyond his control.
Mikal's Songbird Ansset, who knows only how to sing, ends up at the focus of change in the Empire.I first read Songmaster in a Futura edition with 23 pages missing out of the middle.
Card may not always be good, but this book is among his best.Note: When I first read Songmaster, I knew very little about Card.
On this re-read, I still know very little about Card, but it was impossible not to consider his well-publicized and disagreeable views about homosexuality.
Read in this way, the book is excellent.
I've read and enjoyed most of Orson Scott Card's books.
It's funny, though, that although many of Card's novels contain dark elements and portray gentle people who are compelled by circumstances or their own moral decisions to commit acts of great violence, this particular novel was really harrowing to read.
Although 'Songmaster' was written long before the Ender Saga, Card was more successful with Ansett than he was with Ender in demonstrating the terrible toll Ansett's life took on him and Ansett's ultimate redemption.
This was one of four or five books that I started the year with, all reading at the same time, in different spots in my home.
I find myself mentally chewing on something days after reading, and learning things about myself I did not know.Orson Scott Card is famous for his Ender books in particular.
I've tried reading other Orson Scott Card books and been unable to get into them.
Since this was one of  Orson Scott Card's pre- Ender's Game books, I didn't quite know what to expect.
Songmaster's other worldly aspect is the music itself and since it really doesn't count as invention or magic it can safely straddle the two genres.I didn't care much for the homosexual references; although since homosexuality seems so prominant in musicians (more so in theatre though) I suppose it could be an integral part of the story.
Interestingly enough none of the singers in the book are homosexual though.Part of me wishes I could give the book two-and-a-half stars, since it really is better than two, but not three.
At least twice the story could have ended - everything was tied up nicely and at a pleasant point - but then the story starts again after a few years have passed and something happens that changes everything.
Nothing lasts forever, the book seems to point out, yet, at the very end we are left with hope and happiness because even if nothing lasts, neither does anything truly disappear.
Having Control meant being able to chose when and how not to be in control.A very beautiful book that left me the feeling of reading a myth.
This is perhaps my favorite Orson Scott Card book. It has a richly developed universe and characters and covers the entire lifetime of the main character. I did not want to put it down and when the book was over, I felt as if I had been in the presence of a great person and was happy to have joined him on his journey. This book is a science fiction, but has a similar feel to a lot of epic fantasy, so would probably be good for fans of either genre.
We also see hints of things to come in Card’s work, as Songmaster is particularly reminiscent of Ender’s Game with it’s themes of a child removed from his loving family at a very young age to be trained for a serious task, often with adults conspiring to manipulate his progress without his knowledge.
Through most of Songmaster I found myself wondering exactly what sympathetic portrayal of gay characters Card was talking about, since the only thing gay going on was several adults lusting after an eight year old boy.
But when I returned to it, I was suddenly turned off by the pacing and felt like the book was just taking forever to go anywhere.
Only when there was a very sudden shift in the plot did I become interested again, but then the pages kept turning.Kyara and Ansset have very skewed perceptions of what living and interacting with other people mean.
If this doesn't sound like your kind of novel, don't read it.In short, there's beautiful prose, a lot of fascinating characterization, but also very hit or miss pacing...Note: I have no idea why people go on and on about "gay content" in this book.
De cierto modo este libro me recordó a Let the Right One In, y no porque sea un libro sobre vampiros
La Casa de Canto enseña a los niños a cantar las canciones de la gente, de la vida, de la muerte… cr
It's been a while since I've read anything by him and I'd definitely forgotten how beautiful how world building is.
His prose is so lovely and he'll contrast it by writing in an event or something so horrible or ugly that it sometimes takes another read or two of the passage to comprehend what exactly happened.
Songmaster follows one man from events that make his existence significant to his death.
There is love, both familial and romantic, cut-throat political maneuvering, bold kidnappings, and whirlwind fight scenes.
Ansset's troubles would apply to heterosexual sex (though, come to think of it, Esste also engaged in sexual activity abroad and she didn't suffer the same consequences--maybe Orson Scott Card thinks women can't orgasm?), and Josif's trauma is more related to having (basically with her consent, though) cheated on his wife.
But despite the bizarreness, the uncomfortable sexualization of a child, the uninterpretable commentary on homosexuality, which is presented as both beautiful and natural but happens to destroy the men who engage in it, Card is still a masterful world-builder and an excellent storyteller.
review to come soon
There are a few aspects of the character that make me uncomfortable given that he is the only gay character in the novel, and what I know of Card’s views, but it wasn’t enough to make me throw the book across the room.What struck me more on this second reading which I’d only partly remembered from my first reading is how common pedophiliac desire seems to be within the novel’s setting (*hundreds* of men and women had lusted after the main character when he was a boy).
The first part was beautiful, the last parts got plain weird over the time. Since it actually takes place in distant future - but not too distant, it features some ineteresting views on that day's society on Earth and other planets. It's a picture of future that's not too obsessed with technology and appreciates the beauty of nature and songs.
What a waste of time.Ansset is a completely unrelateable character.
He is an alien.The culture was too free with sex, too, which is disturbing in the least.
And the way they treat children at the songhouse is disturbing.
There was little loyalty among friends or lovers, even with "good" characters.I disliked Mikal, and Riktors, and Kyaren, and Josif.
I sort of liked Este and Rruk, but I didn't make it to her chapters, so I don't know.While everything was chronological, the time frames kept jumping and everything seemed unrelated, except that the events were somehow onnected to Ansset.
Why should we like him?
Me apasionan especialmente las historias que tratan de individuos que a primera vista proceden de familias normales, y son seleccionados por caza-talentos para ser (trans)formados en héroes que finalmente realizarán proezas históricas.
Quizás más realista, que lleva a un escenario no tan idealizado, algo que sorprende y que desde mi punto de vista separa el libro en dos partes algo distanciadas, dejando un regusto agridulce.
For a relatively obscure novel, it was actually a pretty good read.
I was hesitant to read it at first because the description, title, and book cover lacked the wow factor I have had with other books.
But alas, it was on my list of books to read, so I began to plunge into it.
I don't think it ranks highest among the books I have read by OSC but it was very intriguing, following the life a a human who has the ability to supernaturally manipulate people emotionally and physically through songs, leading him to becoming the most powerful person in the universe.
