https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/647603.Give_the_Boys_a_Great_Big_Hand
He had been a cop for a long time now, and he knew instantly from the expression on Hawes's face that the bag must contain a segment of the human body.When a severed hand is found inside an airline bag, all the boys from the 87th precinct have to go on is that it was removed from a "large white male, aged 18-24." Now they've got to find not only the rest of the body, but the killer as well.
Yeah - some guys have all the luck!Though the ending was a bit abrupt, and more than a little gruesome, this was a pretty good entry in the series.
I liked it W-A-Y more than the last go-round - King's Ransom.
But in the simpler world of 1960, it's only a bloody, crudely severed hand.It's raining day after day in Isola and the last place the detectives of the 87th Precinct want to be is out running around in the rain, trying to figure out who might be missing the hand in question.
As always, it's fun to watch Carella and the other detectives at work, and in this case, there's even a fist fight in the squad room.
Any fan of the series will certainly want to find this book.
Another great story of the 87th Precinct as Carella, Hawes and Kling follow the clues to the mystery of the severed hand found in an airline bag.Quick, easy reads with a good plot and great description of the city at night.I am really enjoying this series.
This case starts off when a patrolman finds a severed human hand in a bag. As the case develops the detectives have a hard time identifying the victim let alone the perpetrator. Some of the clues point to the same person for both roles. A decent story and it wraps up in the end with a bit of a twist. I enjoyed this one a bit more than the previous book.
It's always great to be back with the boys from the 87th Precinct even when McBain struggles to work a worthy plot line.Hapless beat cop Richard Genaro makes another grisly discovery in the form of a severed hand.
McBain turns up the extreme weather (its raining constantly) while he scrambles to fit a story to the discarded appendage.
Carella leads the investigation whilst Hawes attempts to charm the local Strippers.
Other than plot this one has Teddy and Carella moving into new digs with the newly born twins.
And Carella resorts to violence in the squad room as local bad egg Detective Andy Parker crosses the racism line.
The beat cop opens the bag and finds a human body part.Thus begins one of the more intriguing cases that I have read thus far in my quest to read the 87th Precinct series from start to finish in order.
And, I will admit, I did not see the case wrapping in the way it did.
Somewhat more gruesome than the previous nine books.Ed McBain’s writing is somewhat hit or miss.
Some of these books are quite goo; others stink to high heaven.
In fact, if you just want to dip you r toe in the water, this is a pretty good book to do it with.
Another terrific book in the 87th Precinct series of police procedurals. This one's got a great title, a nifty play on the subject matter. All of McBain's stories are fun, but with an underlying level of seriousness that grounds them in reality.
Despite having been written in 1960, the story is still an entertaining one, complete with simply the best dialogue in the game.
McBain has the ability to draw up characters that jump off the pages and while reading through their conversations, one easily slips into the belief that he/she is actually there, "on location," as if a fly on the wall.
There are other entries in the series that are superior in both plot complexity and depth of characters, but this one is a great quick read-- get your feet wet if you like, or if you're already a committed fan, just enjoy the addition.
Another solid entry in the series.
I remembered nothing of this one but the title.
It's got all the trademark stuff - it's naturalistic, full of believable characters, full of equal parts cynical realism and a humanity that makes your heart ache.
The view of women in this one was particularly noticeable in its datedness, but on that account McBain is occasionally jokey and crude, but never leering or demeaning.
He's also self-aware enough to give the most emotionally devastating scene (imo, an early one) to a minor female character, an overweight, aggressive alcoholic.Rated 3 as a stand alone in comparison to the others, rated 5 for the series as a whole.
finished this one lastnight, the 28th of february. good read. i really liked it. quite the mystery. and another mcbain. surprised there are so few (relatively) reviews...what was the number? 46? give or take. anyway, an entertaining story. onward and upward.
A very clever entry in this well crafted series.
With nothing else to go on the cops lean heavily on the lab for any clue the hand might contain.
Because this is a series book that may be read out of order we don't typically meet Meyer Meyer without getting the backstory on his name or Cotton Hawes without an explanation of either his name or the white streak in his hair.
I don't know if this has been corrected by later editions or if the mistake has stood for the 55 years.I've been reading these at a pretty steady pace and I think what makes them work again and again is that the actual mystery is not as interesting as the process of investigation and personal traits and habits of the detectives.
Dear Mr McBain,First I want you to know how saddened I was by your death several years ago and secondly to thank you for not allowing some other author to "buy" your series and continue to write as you.
And so when I'm in need of a mystery that I can count on, I reread one of yours and it's like a visit with old friends--Steve, Cotton, Meyer Meyer, Bert and the rest of the gang.
So, even though you aren't here to write new books--I thank you for the old ones and the fact that you will remain the one and only Ed McBain.
GIVE THE BOYS A GREAT BIG HAND (Pol. Proc- 87th Precinct-Fic. City-Cont) – ExMcBain, Ed – 11th in seriesSimon and Schuster, 1960, US Hardcover – Lib. of Congress Card No: 60-6103First Sentence: It was raining.*** On a rainy Marcy day in Isola, Patrolman Richard Genero sees someone all dressed in black board a bus but leave behind an airline tote bag.
What Genero doesn’t expect is that the bag contains the large severed hand of an adult male.
Now it’s up the “boys” of 87th Precinct to identify both the victim and the killer.*** There is something wonderful about reading the Ed McBain books.
This is a solid entry into the 87th Precinct series. But I found myself drifting and wanting to hurry through it. It could be the ill-conceived title. I think that was a burr in my saddle for the whole book. It was fun to have some actual dismembered hands show up, and I am taken aback at the snapshot of the world McBain provides in his books. It somehow seems so innocent. But I really appreciate how some officers are having sex and some are in relationships and it's not judgmental at all - just an observation.
Possible spoiler? It could have been called "A Rose for McBain-ily" McBain's dark humor is in full effect in this one starting with the title. When the titular big hand shows up, Carella and the boys have to piece together a mystery with less evidence than you can count on...well, one hand. After "King's Ransom" (with it's shoe-company-stock-plotline) this entry gets back to the roots of the series, delivering a fast-paced, tightly-plotted mystery that kept me reading.
A patrolman finds a severed hand in a airline bag, and the 87th Street bulls have to find the rest of the body and the culprit. As they investigate, the mysterious disappearance of a stripper at the same time draws their attention. Steve Carella and Cotton Hawes work the case and discover the sad truth.
Patrolman Richard Genero sees what happens and goes and opens said bag.
I suppose that any series is going to have it's highs and lows.
It also makes sense to say that the better a series is, the more enjoyable the lows will be, so it stands to reason that any of the 87th Precinct books are going to be worth reading even if they don't always hit the mark.
The case itself goes like clockwork.
More good stuff from McBain, but there are better vintages available.
I thought it would be a decent distraction and easy enough to read.
I don't think I've ever taken this long to read an 87th Precinct book, hah!
(view spoiler)[They look up missing men of a certain age and height, only to discover that the reason the hand was cut off was because its owner, Mike, a drummer at a former strip club, was making it with the killer's supposed girlfriend, Bubbles Cesare (supposed because Bubbles' agent Charles Tudor was in love with her and was angry that he wasn't her only beau).
(hide spoiler)]Occurred over a rainy week-long span in March.
In NYC on a rainy night a dark figure leaves an airline bag containing a severed hand with the fingertips sliced off. Detectives investigating the crime seek the owner of the hand and the person who dropped it off.The book does a good job showing the atmosphere in a police station and the life of policemen when off-duty. The two main characters follow leads diligently to find the perpetrator. Enjoyed it.
I enjoyed this one a lot. Morbid, fun, weird. Good dialogue. In one section, McBain gets a little too passionate about the city being a woman we all love. (But that's okay. Mildly annoying but not too bad.) Overall, a great, simple, fun read. I might go so far as to say one of my favourite McBain books so far.
Plugging awayIf you're paying attention, I'm reading this series at the pace of about one book a week. I could probably be quicker, but I work for a living. That's fine, since I can skim the frequent backstory details that make their appearance. Good read. Predictable outcome, but worthwhile nonetheless.
RATING: 3.25
I won't read anymore McBain. The 60s style is distractingly sexist
Loved the procedural aspect of the book. It felt like the police technique moved the story forward and not the plot itself.
Standardní detektivka. Je dobrá, svižná, ale v rámci 87. se mi zatím zdá nejslabší.
Rating: ✭✭✭It's been quite a while since I dropped in on "the boys" of the 87th Precinct in Ed McBain's fictional city of Isola. (This is no. 11 in the series.) I remember reading a bunch of books back in the 1970s and really enjoying them, but didn't know how I'd feel about them today. They are very much of their time, with all those bad old attitudes and assumptions. But I should have known better than to worry — Ed McBain (a pseudonym of novelist Evan Hunter) was an absolute master of the har
Rating: ✭✭✭½It's been quite a while since I dropped in on "the boys" of the 87th Precinct in Ed McBain's fictional city of Isola.
11 in the series.) I remember reading a bunch of books back in the 1970s and really enjoying them, but didn't know how I'd feel about them today.
The books hold up, even after all these years.
A little gory, of course — but not as bad as some of the more recent crime fiction I've read.
A typical McCain story.Interesting description of events where nothing matched. Characters were sketched out in such a way that they didn't fit anywhere.
In this case, it's a severed hand - minus fingerprints - left at a bus stop in a plastic airline bag that sets the investigative wheels in motion, as the boys try to track down the former owner of the body part with little more to go on than the assumption that it's previous owner might have been reported missing recently.
Kindle UnlimitedThe mystery man wore black, and he got onto a bus leaving a airline gift flight bag of first class passenger discovered later after enquiries Patrolman Richard Genero sees the bag and then the hand.
Steve Carella and Cotton Hawes went along with the grudge theory, because the black-cloaked killer didn't leave any clues to go on - the grisly hands even had the fingertips sliced off.
Name of drummer Mike Chirapadano.Leads finally to Charles Tudor who discovers the girl in the flat he has in secret from his resident with his agend parent.
