https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2165625.The_House_Without_a_Key
This is never more evident than in The House Without a Key.The story centers on young and proper John Quincy Winterslip of Boston, who has been sent to retrieve the elder Minerva Winterslip from the 'semi-barbaric' Pacific Islands of Hawaii.
John Quincy does not understand the nostalgia Minerva and others feel for this time in Hawaii's history, but soon discovers for himself that romance is alive in those trade winds blowing the palms fronds.
The House Without a Key is that rare novel which can be read with pleasure by those who love a good mystery, or those who love a light and atmospheric romance.
50 years before the suave and dapper fictional TV detective Steve McGarrett policed the streets of Honolulu in "Hawaii 5-0", writer Earl Derr Biggers (what a great name, BTW) gave us the equally dapper (but alas not suave) fictional book detective Charlie Chan.
Another strength of Biggers' novel is that although it was written during a time when prejudices against non-whites prevailed, Biggers' allowed his readers to see a strong, capable and smart person of non-white descent, and had the white and non-white characters interact on an equal basis.Sadly, Biggers died in 1933, 7 years after this debut, and only wrote 6 Charlie Chan mysteries.
I thoroughly enjoyed this first Charlie Chan mystery, and can't believe that I never picked one up before!
He was like a very genteel rock.
John Quincy's joy at discovering his wanderlust and true love was exhilerating, and added a spark of youth, fire, and life to the tale.
Miss Minerva's strength, fortitude, and self-determination engendered admiration and respect, and caused the reader (and John Quincy) to see her wisdom in living life on her terms.The House Without a Key was just a good book, full of life, zest, movement, passion, and joy.
Just like it's Hawaiian setting.
The six Charlie Chan novels were immensely successful but the movies based (loosely) on them were even more so - in fact there were no less than 40 Charlie Chan movies!The movies have been attacked for supposedly promoting racial stereotypes.
John Quincy Winterslip, a rather strait-laced young Bostonian stockbroker from a very old New England family has been dispatched to Hawaii to bring his Aunt Minerva home.
There’s a great to deal to enjoy in The House Without a Key. It’s published in paperback by Wordsworth in the Charlie Chan Omnibus along with two other Charlie Chan mysteries.
I went on a mission to read at least one book featuring every literary detective who was satirized in the 1976 movie Murder by Death, which is one of my favorites.
Having already read novels featuring Poirot, Marple, Nick & Nora Charles, and Spade, this was my last stop.
My verdict?Best detective (character): Nick & Nora.
Charlie Chan is a great character, but my favorite aspect of this book was the way Biggers wrote about Hawaii.
The state itself with all of its features becomes like a character in the book.
The story's characters are strong, if a little predictable, and the mystery takes second seat to the novel's spectacular setting.
But all in all, it was a great read.Lots of people have moaned about Charlie Chan's stereotypical portrayal.
(For instance, Chan samples a piece of pie that seems a little past its due date to him, so he demands an "unmolested sector" of the pie instead.) Now, nearly 100 years after the novel was written, we can read it with a more savvy eye to culture.
First Charlie Chan mystery, and a very fun book it is to read.
It is wonderful to follow Chan and John Quincy Winterslip work together and develop a respect for one another that transcends many others in the story.
Nice mystery as well, very visual, and let's face it...
you'll want to go to Hawaii after reading of its beauty.
The story follows John Quincy for the most part and he moves from a man raised and ready to become a staid old man at the age of thirty in Boston.
Timeless, and better than I expected.Honolulu 1920's
Liked the book. Had read Mitchner's Hawaii a few years before and wondered if he had read this.
Yes, it's dated and hokey, but it's still curiously enjoyable.
Young New Englander is sent to Hawaii to persuade his proper Bostonian aunt to return (after ten months!) from her six-week vacation visiting cousins in Waikiki.
By the time he arrives, one of his cousins is dead.
Afraid that scandal will tarnish the family name, he works with the police, including their Chinese ace detective, and falls in love both with Hawaii and with a beautiful, socially unsuitable young lady.
As the police eliminate suspect after suspect, it seems as though the murder will never be solved.
And that’s just what happens to John Quincy Winterslip, a Boston bond dealer who is sent by the family to fetch home his aunt, who left months ago for a visit and hasn’t come home.His ship arrives in the evening and because of bureaucratic red tape (yes, even in Hawaii Territory in 1925) the ship has to sit outside the reef overnight and land in the morning.
It turns out there were quite a few visitors the night Dan was killed, and with John Quincy’s help the police turn up numerous motives for wanting Dan dead.This is Hawaii and so there are lots of Hawaiian words, a visit to a luau, swimming and surfboarding, leis and muumuus, and the light blinking on Diamond Head.
John Quincy Winterslip has come to Hawaii from Boston to get his Aunt Minerva to return home.
She has been in Hawaii for quite some time staying with the family blacksheep, Dan Winterslip.
He meets an uncle in San Francisco who he stays with before taking ship to Hawaii.
He goes on board the ship with his cousin Barbara, returning to her father's house in Hawaii (Barbara is Dan's daughter).
And John Quincy decides he will "help" Charlie Chan, maybe he can find out things people wouldn't tell a detective.He met a girl on arrival in San Francisco that he found utterly charming.
This book is the first of the Charlie Chan mysteries and I was quite excited to read it.
The ambiance and culture of both San Francisco and Hawaii as well as the murder mystery and the various women he crushes on are all factors in his transformation.
And the Boston-Hawaii/San Francisco juxtaposition really works but whenever Charlie Chan shows an admiration for the cultured city of Boston I want to tell him, "no!
If you want a good mystery from the early part of the 20th century and you don't mind stuffy Bostonians and very little Charlie Chan, read the book.
I have seen many of the Charlie Chan films, and I have always enjoyed them, but I had not read any of the books.
A family originally from Boston, the Winterslips, has some members living in Hawaii.
One of the wealthy Winterslips living in Hawaii is murdered.
A younger member of the family, John Quincy Winterslip, has been sent to Boston to check up on his Aunt Minerva and persuade her to return to Boston.
Charlie Chan does not show up until later in the book, and in some ways he seems to be in the background during the investigation.
Young Bostonian, John Quincy Winterslip, has been dispatched to Honolulu, Hawaii to bring his Aunt Minerva home.
But Dan’s murder changes everything, and as John Quincy becomes embroiled in the investigation, he too begins to succumb to the charms of Hawaii.I’ve never watched a Charlie Chan movie for more than a few minutes.
It had been awhile since I read a mystery written before computers, DNA, and cellphones.
It was also amusing to read about a police department that welcomed help from an inexperienced amateur sleuth.
The plot was convoluted at times, yet Earl Derr Biggers’ style held enough appeal to make this whodunit an enjoyable read.
For the past few years I had been intrigued by the thought of reading Charlie Chan mysteries but based on my dim memories of the Charlie Chan movies I had seen on TV as a kid, I was afraid that the books would be a bit racist and therefore off-putting.
However, my wife recently read this book and assured me that this was not the case and she recommended the book, enthusiastically.
Lo and behold, she was correct.
Overall, I found this book to be engrossing and extremely well written.
It was a very enjoyable read.
The story takes place in the early 1920's Hawaii in Honolulu surrounding the murder of a wealthy man.
A side story is that of a young man who has come from the chilly Boston area to the lovely tropical islands that are either buffeted by Kona winds or soothed by trade winds and he finds a a new world.
I had a great time reading this book easily finding myself transported back to the era described in the book even as they bemoaned the fact that Hawaii had changed beyond recognition !!
, understand the people.I can't wait to read the next.
I enjoyed this a great deal, it's a clever, well-paced mystery with an engaging enough romantic drama weaving in and out of the actual whodunnit.Surely I should be able to say more than that about a book I enjoyed so much?
I always try and say something about theme, style and resonance, but in this case it's simply a case of a book that sets out to do one thing - entertain the reader with a breezy, absorbing story, and everything within works to achieve just just that end - no more, and no less.
I'll probably read more of these books, in the mode in which I read another Agatha Christie rather than, say, another Hammett.
Throw away everything you ever thought you knew about Charlie Chan from the Charlie Chan movies of the 1930s and 40s. Earl Derr Biggers' Charlie Chan books, written in the 1920s and 1930s, are much more interesting, putting on view the commonly held stereotypes of Chinese Americans during this period and the racism they encountered. The Charlie Chan of the books is an intelligent and subtle opponent of those attitudes. The mystery is clever and great fun, and like all of the Charlie Chan books, it has a great sense of place: in this case 1920s Hawaii.
The first Charlie Chan book from the 20s. Set in Waikiki, the Honolulu police department solves a murder mystery with the help of both recent and long time visitors to the area. I loved each characters impressions of the island and having cocktails at the former home that was the setting of the book under the century-old Kiawe tree from the story was dreamy. I will definitely be reading the rest of the series. Did I mention I may now be obsessed with Hawaii.
After reading the biography of Charlie Chan, I wanted to read a Charlie Chan mystery. This was a wonderful engaging story. Aside from the whodunit, it is a coming of age story of a young man from a Boston Brahmin society who finds a new identity in the free romantic atmosphere of Hawaii. Charlie Chan is a key figure with all the charm and wit that I remembered about him.
The good: A solid, nicely written mystery with some interesting characters, set in Hawaii. Also, it's pretty liberal, considering the time it was written. The bad: Well, I'd appreciate more Chan and less other characters..The bad:None.
What an enjoyable read! A great mystery with a quirky detective. Then you have the wonderful scenes of Hawaii, subtle humor and and great characters! Some f the attitudes are dated, but does not take away from the story.
Have read several times over the years. Never tire of the oldies but goodies.
Exciting Hawaiian classic mystery, and an introduction to Charlie Chan...
He soon finds out that Charlie Chan, despite his rotund appearance and peculiar manner of speech, is quite a shrewd detective, although John Quincy does a lot of investigating, some of which proves physically dangerous, on his own.Biggers intended The House Without a Key to be an introduction to Hawaii and its culture, and the book succeeds fairly well on that account.
As well, Biggers was probably familiar with more writers contemporary to his era, such as Frederick O'Brien, whose influential first book, White Shadows in the South Seas, appeared in 1919, just as Biggers was making his way to Hawaii.
These dealt with everything from the plight of lepers to the social divisions between the colonizers of Hawaii and its natives, something else that features in Biggers' first Charlie Chan novel.
This is a wonderful snapshot of Hawaii before World War II.Not to be forgotten, of course, is the character of Charlie Chan himself.
Charlie Chan: The Untold Story of the Honorable Detective and His Rendezvous with American HistoryBiggers would write a total of six novels and many of dozen movies would be inspired.The staid Bostonian John Quint D Winterslip is dispatched to Hawaii, by his wealthy family to retrieve Aunt Minerva, one of the wandering Winterslips.
He arrives on the islands just in time for the murder of another wanderer his Uncle Dan. An oddly cooperative Hawaii Police Department agrees that this matter should be handled with a minimum of publicity and maximum access to the investigation by young John as the representative of the family's interests.
This is a 5-Star read because the Charlie Chan introduced to the world in this beautifully written book is merely one character among many that play a role in a charming and well written coming of age story.
It's a mystery novel for sure but it's also an elegant iteration of the ancient quest journey.
Earl Deer Biggers writes a tense yet languid character-driven novel that is rich in atmosphere, truth and adventure.
Read it, meet the real Charlie Chan and go along for the ride.
Read this book on our trip to Hawaii.
Miss Minerva Winterslip of Boston has been staying too long in Hawaii at the home of her cousin, Dan. Every day she thinks about leaving, but then more time passes, and she continues to stay.
The enigmatic detective, Charlie Chan, is brought on the case.
John Quincy ends up helping the Chinese detective while exploring the wonders of Hawaii and falling for a local girl (whose father is a suspect).
This was a fun book to read.
Miss Minerva and John Quincy are likeable characters, and it was a pleasure to read the debut of Detective Chan.
