https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114143.The_Reef
ESTO SÍ.
ESTO SÍ.
Después del bajón al leer Bruja oscura, volver a leer a Nora Roberts en todo su esplendor ha sido maravilloso.
Una historia llena de aventuras, misterios y amor.
He aprendido tantísimo sobre submarinismo, arqueología marina y barcos que solo con eso ya me doy por satisfecha.
Pero Nora Roberts (en las novelas en las que se lo curra, que no son todas, aunque me duela decirlo) nos regala también unos personajes trabajadísimos y unas relaciones que avanzan a lo largo de la novela dando pie a conflictos personales y profesionales que me han tenido enganchada hasta el mismísimo final.
Maybe it is because I'm a diver, maybe it is because I love the sea, but I loved, loved, loved this story! :)
I thought this gave a lot of depth to their characters.I enjoyed the twist(s) in the story at the end (Go Teams Beaumont and Lassiter!).My only issue is I felt there wasn't enough insight into Tate's "coming around" to forgiving Matthew - she just all of a sudden forgave him and realised she was completely in love with him.
I realise a few events triggered this "revelation" of hers but still, it seemed a little unbelievable.The Reef has similarites to Black Hills (first NR book I've read) but I won't hold it against Ms Roberts, seeing as the books were written 12 years apart.
This is probably one of my favorite Nora Roberts books.
For Nora Roberts readers you know that her main characters are generally in their late 20's early 30's.
The other Nora Roberts books I have been reading lately, although enjoyable have been falling a bit flat.
Matthew's family, the Lasseters believe in this curse and fear the necklace.
When Matthew's father was murdered when he was 16 because of this necklace he planned to dedicate his life to find it and pay back the man he murdered his father.
There is a love story, which goes without saying for a Nora Roberts book, action, adventure, anger, danger, and a little bit of magic.
3,5. Porque el romance al principio no me ha convencido, demasiado forzado. Luego mejora muchísimo e incluso ha habido 2 sorpresas que me han dejado con la boca abierta.
The white sand beach and palm tree on the front cover enticed me to enter the world of Tate, a 20 year old woman who is in college to become a marine archaelogist, and Matthew, a 24 year old wreck diver who is in search of a lost treasure in the Caribbean.
Their paths cross (along with Tate's parents and Matthew's uncle) as they spend a magical summer searching for gold and the elusive necklace known as Angelina's Curse.
The summer ends in tragedy and heartache but, when the treasure-hunting team gets together eight years later, will the magic - and the romance - be rekindled?
I bought this book at the airport because I had finished my other book and had forgotten my second book at home.
I mean, it's so easy to read and I bought the freaking book.
But most Nora Roberts books, I want to go back and re-read.
And unrealistic, if I am allowed to object to that in a Nora Roberts book.If you are looking for a beach read or airport read, move along and pick up a better Nora Roberts book like say....
I loved all the information about diving/wreck hunting/ and scavenging.
Buck was a great crotchety old man and Uncle and I was glad that his character came around after the shark incident.
Really, the only thing that kept this book from being five stars was the two main characters.
Young girl falls in love with boy.
Boy dosen't feel he is good enough and decided that the best thing for her is if he breaks off the romance so that she will go to college and do what she loves, which she does.
Neither of these guys feels any remorse for breaking the girls heart and they are pushy and demanding.
1) a treasure hunt 2) real nasty villain and 3) H/h who are reunited after being torn apart.The young adult love of Tate and Matthew tears your heart out, especially after all that Matthew has had to live through.
To have their dream of the Marguerites' treasure and happily ever after torn apart by one of NR's nastiest villains, Silas Vandyke, really made the first part of the book a real tear jerker.
But fate, and Nora Roberts, had another destiny in mind for our young lovers.When Tate and Matthew are brought back together after eight years, Tate is a much more controlled, analytical, cynical person.
The Lassiters and Beaumonts team up to salvage wrecked ships for treasure and share the "riches".
Tate Beaumont is studying to be a marine archeologist and her focus is to salvage the whole ship and set up a museum to display what is found.
One treasure, "Angelique's Curse", is the driving force in finding the "Santa Marguerite" and the "Isabella".
The rich Silas Van Dyke also has a passion for finding the amulet and will stop at nothing to get it.
Van Dyke's scheming and manipulation prove to be his undoing.A "can't put down" book with several twists and turns and an unexpected "double agent" who turns out to be a good guy.
Really good mix of romance and mystery! loved the emotion and heartbreak and passion. I got so into this book that I felt anger, betrayal, joy and so many more emotions alongside the characters. I thought really well written in my opinion.
It was an interesting story, decently written. Also, it didn't really remind me of her other books which is a huge plus.
It's just that you can tell she was still experimenting with her style in this book - and I appreciated that.You know who the bad guy is from the beginning, and I appreciate knowing his motivation for his crimes...it's also fun to see how the bad guy is plotting against the hero's during the story...that way at the end I'm not left scratching my head like I have been with quite a number of NR books.All the characters are quite likeable in this story - I especially enjoyed the interaction between Tate's parents and the Lassiters.
Acho que a Nora Roberts prima por descrever tão detalhadamente sobre o tema da busca ao tesouro e da simbologia que este envolve esta muito bem desenvolvido.
Mathew quer o tesouro para poder resolver a sua vida financeiramente, Tate é porque adora um bom projecto científico e que não poderia recusar este.
No final de contas, acabam por descobrir um tesouro ainda maior o amor que os une.
Adoro as histórias de Nora Roberts, aliás tenho uma boa colecção dos livros porque adoro a forma como ela descreve todas as cenas e que nos imaginar detalhadamente o que cada personagem passa não só pela vida como também das paisagens.http://aviciadadoslivros.blogspot.pt/...
I don't usually read romance novels, but this was lying around the house (my mum got it for my sister) and I was bored. I'm giving it two stars for the unintentional hilarity; the plot and characterisation get no stars. (Yes, she'd been kissed before. But she knew the difference between boy and man. It was a man who held her, drew from her. It was a man she wanted. [...:] "You want to make love with me." Her chin came up. Her eyes, all at once, were a woman's, and just as mysterious. "I'm not a child, Matthew.")
And yes, Nora Roberts can write just the right man for the job, with his easy-going façade that hides strangely-layered depths and a core of steel.
They both had agency outside of their romance, they were separate entities, driving the plot and story forward, either individually or as a couple.And the rest of the supporting cast, few as they were, were an entity themselves, adding layers and depth to an already full-bodied, engaging story.The suspense was spot-on, the villain nicely evil and just the right amount of crazy, the added pinch of paranormal hitting just the right spot, the writing amazing, with the images of underwater life and hidden treasures vivid and enthralling, making the reader believe he/she was there alongside the treasure-hunting party, and the pacing wonderful, although not entirely "spotless".A truly wonderful story.
Abandoned at 25%. It's just not for me.
A man, a woman, sunken treasure and a long, lost amulet with an apparent curse, a nefarious enemy, a tiny bit of magical realism--Nora Roberts dishing up romantic suspense. Most of this romantic adventure takes place at sea at St. Kitts and Nevis in the Caribbean. If you enjoy Nora Roberts and/or romantic suspense then this may well be up your alley. I read it for points in a challenge as romance isn't really my cup of tea, but Roberts certainly knows how to write romance.
Me gusta el estilo de esta escritora! Creo que voy a leer más de ella. Muy recomendable.
Ich habe schon eine ganze Menge Bücher von Nora Roberts gelesen und mich immer an die Zeitgenössischen gehalten.
Das Buch ist etwas für Leser, die weniger Wert auf die Liebesgeschichte legen und mehr unterhalten werden wollen.
Das fand ich aber auch sehr interessant und konnte die Begeisterung nachvollziehen, die die Taucher bei neuen Funden erlebten.
Auch als beide zusammen waren, fand ich das nicht romantisch und das hatte ich bei einem Buch dieser Autorin schon erwartet.
Gedanken der Protagonisten waren ziemlich kitschig, aber das bin ich von der Autorin schon gewohnt und es stört mich nicht.
Nora Roberts, in my opinion, has never had problems immersing the readers in her stories, fully committing to what the characters do.
Now I don't know how a professional diver would feel reading this book, but for an unprofessional like myself (actually for someone who only makes it to the beach once every few years) Roberts did a great job with this aspect.
The book I've read recently where she does this (but was actually published after "The Reef") was Black Hills.
What I didn't like (that consequentially Roberts did better in Black Hills) was the back and forth between that main characters.
Hay cosas (comportamiento de hombres) que no me entusiasman demasiado, tal vez porque, aunque me guste la romántica, son cosas que veo normal en libros de histórica pero no en contemporánea. Incluso con eso, el libro me ha encantado. La temática es genial (mi miniyó que quería ser bióloga marina ha disfrutado mucho), la verdad es que gracias a la labor de documentación que hace Roberts aprendes un montón.
Acho que fiquei completamente presa a esta "busca ao tesouro" a partir da segunda parte do livro quando a família de Tate se encontra com Matthew e Buck, passados oito anos após terem trabalhado junto uma primeira vez!
Esta paixão, ao longo do livro conhece altos e baixos, mas no fim este é o tesouro que as personagens mais valorizam.A opção da autora de dividir o livro em três momentos principais - passado, presente e futuro - é um outro aspecto que eu considero positivo, uma vez que confere ao livro uma certa dinâmica narrativa e evolucional da estória.
Com todas as fantásticas descrições que a autora faz das praias e dos sitios onde os Beaumonts e os Lassiters atracam os seus barcos, dá vontade de ir dar um mergulho quando terminamos de ler determinado capitulo.A história em si tem um començo um tanto abrupto mas que logo é compensado, aquando do meio do livro, o casal protagonista se reencontra e a trama se desenvolve de forma muito mais alucinante e lógica.Gostei bastante de Tate Beaumont, a protagonista, que se mostra determinada e cheia de força enfrentado tudo e todos não só pelo homem que ama como pela sua familia e reputação.
I am not going to review every Nora Roberts book that I have read in the past because she is quite prolific and it would get redundant and I honestly cannot remember all the plots.
I think I have read every one of her books to date because despite the cheesy nature, the ending is always happy and the read is easy.
Frankly, I like these books and will continue to read each one that comes out.
I am going to post this same review for each of her books that I have read in the past.
One of the best parts about traveling for me it picking a book to take along.
This time around we went to Hawaii, and I was looking for something good to lounge with on the beach.
The Reef was it - a perfect beach read.
It is a story set in the Pacific, entwined with murder, greed, passion, piracy, a nasty bad guy, cursed amulets, and romance.
All of the elements which make for good vacation reading.
Filled with suspense and twists, and descriptions I could get lost in, this book impressed me.
At first it is sweet, then tart, I ate up each color like a giddy kid, and then I was left a little ill.
I liked the premise of the story but there are too many cliched plot points and archetypical characters.
I am also left thinking why is it socially acceptable for a woman to lose herself to anger and strike a man, but when a man strikes a woman it is abusive?
Nothing like a good burning at the stake to satisfy the Lord of Light.
In all, this was a good summer read.
I appreciate the recommendation from my friend and I enjoyed the story as well as some of the over-the-top archetypes.
I loved this book!
It had murder, sex, adventure, treasure, love, drama.
It kept me on the edge of my seat the whole time.
Tate & Matthew were made for each other and it took them 8 yrs to find their way again.
I loved all the diving & treasure hunting stuff.
An awesome book.4/28/17 - This was a reread.
But I saved it because I remember thinking it was my favorite of her books.
I still liked it but not the same way at all.
I think I was really into the author at the time.
Retirado do post original em http://alerdesde1500.blogspot.ch/2013...Adorei o ambiente do livro, mas faltou originalidade à intriga... pareceu-me uma junção de clichés... o vilão foi do mais banal e previsível que li nos últimos anos :(Um bom livro para ler na praia, mas longe de ser o melhor de N. Roberts.3 estrelas só pelo ambiente e porque adoro mergulho. As partes de 'caça ao tesouro' foram muito interessantes, o romance... meah... e a intriga pareceu uma colagem de estereótipos.Espero ter um bocadinho mais de sorte no próximo livro que escolher dela.Alguém tem sugestões?
DNF. I finished disc 3 and was already over it. The heroine was very young and I tried to look past that, but the hero just kept mentioning it, not allowing me to forget! The hero's father in murdered in the first few pages and I assume would have been a bigger factor, I just couldn't get into it. If it had only been 7 discs, I may have suffered through, but 11? Wasn't happening.I think I am going to stick with Robert's trilogies.
