https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10302.The_March_of_Folly
Babs is one crafty, talented instructor and this ranks highly among the BEST history books I've had the pleasure of reading.
PLOT SUMMARYTo qualify as "folly" for this book, Tuchman explains that actions need to meet all four of the following criteria: 1.
Tuchman spends some pages at the beginning of the book describing a number of "bonehead" and "assclowny" decisions in history that didn't qualify as folly, either because they were a single instance of governmental psychosis, or because they were carried out at the command of a dictator and not a coordinated governmental policy.
It is quite a powerful argument and one we would dearly love to embrace - it gives us the possibility of a future where we can side-step such follies, by avoiding these very decision making practices.
This sort of decision making is in fact quite common - leaders always follow the popular 'wisdom' and usually it turns out to be right.
A highly readable account of four instances of human folly over the last 2800 years. These include the Trojans's unaccountable bringing of the Trojan horse into Troy; the transgressions of the Renaissance Popes which brought on the Reformation; the loss by Britain of the American colonies; and America's own pointless war in Vietnam. The last section reminds me very much of Neil Sheehan's A Bright Shining Lie, which was written several years later than Tuchman's narrative. Her book is vivid, clear, unfussy, with just the right density of diction. It never flags. Highly recommended.
"اگر بشر میتوانست از تاریخ پند گیرد، چه درسها که تاریخ به ما نمیداد! ولی شهوت و حزببازی جلو چشممان را میبندد و روشناییِ تجربه فانوسی است در عقب کشتی که فقط بر موجهای پشتسرمان میتابد."خواندنش را به دوستداران تاریخ و سیاست و جامعه شناسی توصیه میکنم. نثر تاکمن بسیار گیرا و جذاب است و ترجمه هم روان و مناسب بود. جالب/تاسفبار آنجاست که بیخردیهای تاریخی بارها و بارها تکرار شده و خواهند شد.
"اگر بشر می‌توانست از تاریخ پند گیرد، چه درسها که تاریخ به ما نمی‌داد! ولی شهوت و حزب‌بازی جلو چشم‌مان را می‌بندد و روشناییِ تجربه فانوسی است در عقب کشتی که فقط بر موجهای پشت‌سرمان می‌تابد."خواندنش را به دوستداران تاریخ و سیاست و جامعه شناسی توصیه می‌کنم. نثر تاکمن بسیار گیرا و جذاب است و ترجمه هم روان و مناسب بود. جالب/تاسف‌بار آنجاست که بی‌خردی‌های تاریخی بارها و بارها تکرار شده و خواهند شد.
کتاب را در کنار بستر گذاشته بودم و هر شب به شوق خواندنش زودتر به سمت بستر خوابم میرفتم تا بخوانمش و در هر صفحه و هر خطش یاد جمله ی معروف آنچه انتهای ندارد حماقت بشر است می افتادم اشراف نویسنده به اطلاعات بسیار بالا بود و شیرین زبانیش مزید بر علت میشد تا هر لحظه برای خواندن بیشتر کتاب مشتاق باشم کتاب تاریخ بی خردی تنها به چند حماقت بشر میپردازد یعنی تروا کلیسای رنسانس استقلال آمریکا و. جنگ ویتنام هر چند همین کم به قدر کفایت نشان میدهد که بشر عجیب موجود یست
First of all, too much attention is paid to Troy, about which nothing is known, historically speaking.
Also, she actually is stronger in another classical case not mentioned in the title or in most descriptions of the book, viz.
I appreciated the refresher course, but it does not have the historical character of her two best studies, viz.
that of those Renaissance popes who precipitated the Protestant Reformation and that of the British government which lost most of the American colonies.
On the Renaissance popes I appreciated the clear survey of ineptitute as the period is not well-known to me.
Kind of like the "color-man" while listening to a sporting event, Tuchman examines the idea of "folly," or the persistent pursuit of a policy by government or those in power that is "contradictory to their own interests." Since a topic like this could take volumes, the author chooses 4 primary historical examples: the Fall of Troy, the breakup of of the Holy See in the 16th century, the British monarchy's vain attempt to keep the American colonies, and America's own arrogant persistence during the Vietnam War. The fault in this book is that this subject matter can be pretty exhausting even with the only 450 page book.
راحتمان مي كند كه ما در اين زمانه تافته ي جدا بافته نيستيم و هميشه حاكمان بي عقل به روشهاي شبيه يكديگر، تيشه به ريشه منافع مردم و ميهنشان زده اند.
نيز از آنجا كه حاكمان بي خرد بيش از همه به منافع خود زيان مي رسانند، عدم خود را روزبروز نزديكتر مي كنند و اين هم البته حس خوبي است!اما اينكه بايد ديد بشريت با اين همه ادعاهاي "دهن پر كن" در اين زمانه مانند حقوق بشر، نه تنها كمترين فرقي با - بقول امروزيان- بشر وحشي 3000 سال پيش نكرده بلكه در فريبكاري و كشت و كشتار بالاتر از آنها قرار گرفته، اينكه مردم از همه جا بي خبر بايد تاوان اشتباه ها، حماقت ها، جاه طلبي ها، فساد و توهم هاي افراد حاكم را بپردازد، و اينكه تاريخ بي خردي را گويا كه پاياني نيست، البته كه ناراحتمان مي كند.
"Fate" as a character in legend represents the fulfillment of man's expectations of himself.and then goes on to talk about how the Renaissance popes caused the ReformationTheir three outstanding attitudes--obliviousness to the growing disaffection of constituents, primacy of self-aggrandizement, illusion of invulnerable status--are persistent aspects of folly.
They're the new British ruling class, and they're as oblivious as the British ruling class and the Renaissance popes were to what was actually going on around them.Lastly, Tuchman writes how the US lost in Vietnam.
The March of Folly  is an unfortunate title. Or maybe not so unfortunate. Because, after all, what is folly? Barbara Tuchman gives us several examples of the human animal at its worst — but parading at its best. From Ancient Troy right up through Vietnam (can a sequel including Chechnia, the former Yugoslavia, Iraq and Afghanistan be far behind?), we have proved ourselves to be little better than the apes. If there’s a difference, it’s only in the splendor of our rebarbative behavior. Kings, Po
Kings, Popes, Ministers, Generals … it’s all the same.
It’s all right there in 
If you want to continue believing that “all is best in the best of all possible worlds,” don’t read this book.
If you want to continue believing that we are governed by people who know what’s best for us, don’t read this book.
If you want to believe that the march of history is inevitable, don’t read this book.
And our essence would appear — if Ms. Tuchman’s major premise is to be believed — to be tragically farcical.
کتاب آسانخوانی نیست و با اینحال باید خواندش. به تاریخ از دریچهای نگاه میکند و بیخردی جمعی و خودخواهیهای بشر را در مقاطع مهمی از تاریخ نشان میدهد و میگوید که چگونه بعضی از فجایع تاریخ رخ دادهاندبرای من چندین ماه سخت طول کشید و با اینحال خواندمش و راضیام از خواندنش
کتاب آسان‌خوانی نیست و با اینحال باید خواندش. به تاریخ از دریچه‌ای نگاه می‌کند و بی‌خردی جمعی و خودخواهی‌های بشر را در مقاطع مهمی از تاریخ نشان می‌دهد و می‌گوید که چگونه بعضی از فجایع تاریخ رخ داده‌اندبرای من چندین ماه سخت طول کشید و با اینحال خواندمش و راضی‌ام از خواندنش
However, I can now say, somewhat reluctantly, that "The March of Folly" is not up to the standard of Tuchman's earlier books.
In "The March of Folly," one begins to wonder if she has not strayed too far afield and is rather unsure of her ground.
Whatever the reason, I find that the book does not live up to its promise, either conceptually or authorially.The sections on the American Revolution and the Vietnam War are interesting in themselves, but one wonders at times, given the detail involved in both cases, if Tuchman is not actually off the rails.
When I was in the 4th grade I found a book that my Mom had to read for college in the back of a cupboard.
Tuchman's "A Distant Mirror", and I do believe that is what led me to all the other history books I've enjoyed in the years since.
The Trojan horse, The Renaissance popes, the British loss of America, and America in Vietnam.
I particularly enjoyed the Vietnam section, as I've really never read anything about it before.
I didn't realize what a long and twisty road it was that led to the actual fighting, but this book explains everything very well, and in detail, but never in a boring way.
Instead, we're given front-row seats to the grinding wheel.The book is split into four parts (with each one being longer than the last) on the Trojan Horse, the (start of) Reformation, the American Revolution, and Vietnam.
The fighting isn't covered in any real sense, but the demands of rabid anti-communism with its fears of all communists everywhere working in concert with Moscow are well pointed out (though not as well developed as I'd like; though that'd probably be going off her topic).An unaddressed theme that comes out of the last two parts is the fact that these crises often grow out of situations that just weren't seen as very important at the time.
I always enjoy Barbara Tuchman`s ability to write compelling and accessible history be it the oubreak of WWI or the life of a french aristorcrat in the 14th Century, add to that a job which allows me to experience folly in all its glory, I had sky high expectations of the book.The premise was so promising, noted historian takes a four egregious disatsers the trojan horse, the papal actions in the lead up to Luther, the loss of the american colonies and the Vietnam war to understand what led to the decisions.
A must read!
Pur essendo un lavoro di quasi 35 anni fa, la tesi di fondo mi pare ancora attuale, l'uomo non cerca il bene proprio ma vuole soddisfare l'orgoglio e la vanità a scapito della prosperità e del futuro."La comparsa della follia è indipendente dall'era o dalla località; è eterna e universale, anche se i costumi e le credenze di un'epoca e di un luogo particolare determinano la forma che esso assume.
Nè è carattersitica di una nazione o di una classe.".Un libro da leggere e da meditare per capire che il colpo di follia può capitare quando meno lo si aspetta e il "cigno nero" è sempre in agguato.
I'd love to know what Barbara Tuchman, who wrote this in 1984, would think of the current U.S. political situation.From the epilogue:In America, where the electoral process is drowning in commercial techniques of fund-raising and image-making, we may have completed a circle back to a selection process as unconcerned with qualifications as that which made Darius King of Persia.And what was that, you might ask?When he and six fellow conspirators, as recorded by Herodotus, overthrew the reigning despot, they discussed what kind of government - whether a monarchy of one or an oligarchy of the wisest men - they should establish.
I found this to be the most interesting section as time and time again the politicians chose to ignore the facts and opinions of many to pursue an un-winnable conflict.While this is not the most gripping of Tuchman's writings, it is a very readable exploration of the blindness of those who often lead nations into conflicts they cannot win.
Good topic, but a little dry, fairly dense, and not as good as The Guns of August.
Her point is that group think and a focus on assumptions despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary leads to a reinforcing spiral of wrong choices.
Her hope is that wisdom among leaders could overcome these choices.Regardless of whether one could argue the alternatives convincingly, I found the topics a little dry and the text dense at times.
Excellent, excellent examination of the tendency for political policies to continue down damaging pathways though multiple experts advise against it, which Tuchman describes as “folly.” Her description of decadent popes directly encouraging the Protestant Reformation and the resulting loss of Roman power is fun, lively, and intellectually rigorous.
She falters a bit while explaining the British loss of the American colonies as a result of folly.
It’s a real shit stain on this world that the nature of politics nearly eliminates the possibility of political parties examining themselves and their policies as it might damage “the team” to change course on a subject and appear weak.
I found the section on Troy extremely interesting, the section on the Popes not very interesting, and the introduction I found OK. Tuchman's thesis re 'folly' was a new viewpoint for me, so I'm pleased that I read as much as I did. There seemed to be an awful lot of 'facts' in each chapter. So I decided not to read the sections on the American War of Independence, and on Vietnam.
It is wholly inadequate to the government of any other.” (John Adams in a speech to the military in 1798) “To qualify as poly for this inquiry, the policy adopted must meet three criteria: it must have been perceived as counter-productive in its own time, not merely by hindsight.
In the notes of his early life, writing of himself in the third person, Solon put it differently: ‘Each day he grew older and learned something new.’” (Page 17) “Social systems can survive a good deal of folly when circumstances are historically favorable, or when bungling is cushioned by large resources or absorbed by sheer size as in the United States during its period of expansion.
To remove the problem from personality, a third criterion must be that the policy in question should be that of a group, not an individual ruler, and should persist beyond any one political lifetime.”The book then examines in detail four events from history that fit her criteria of folly; (1) Actions taken regarding the Trojan horse that led to the subsequent fall of Troy, (2) Actions taken by the Roman Catholic Papacy leading up to the Protestant Reformation, (3) Actions taken by the British government that lead to the American Revolutionary War, and (4) Decisions that led to American involvement in the Vietnam War. The Protestant Reformation and American Revolution are obviously significant turning points in world history.
Man, talk about phoning it in....Years ago I read Barbara Tuchman's famous "Guns of August" and thought it was great.
The theme is times in history when a nation engaged in folly - self-defeating behavior.
She focuses on four items that don't really have much to do w/ each other, but she felt like talking about.
She was just telling tales she felt like rehashing.
(This is the approach of many snapshot, for-fun history books that tell you of "100 Greatest Mistakes in History" or whatever).
It's too long to be fun and too unoriginal to be worth reading.I mostly skimmed over the last two-thirds.
I remember just about everything about Vietnam, from the fall of Dien Bien Phu when I was still a child to the helicopter escape from the US Embassy in Saigon when I was a young woman raising two children and going to grad school.It is in many ways a depressing book, particularly in the light of the incredible stupidity and even more impressive veniality of the current American government.
Doubly depressing because the only leadership trait the book singles out as having promise of good government is moral character.
Читаю уже четвертую подряд (прерываясь лишь на восхитительные Famles) книгу историка Барбары Такман. Очаровала она меня блистательными "Августовскими пушками",одной из лучших книг о ПМВ, где искусно сочетала подробнейшие описания сражений с закулисными политическими интригами. В других книгах ("Ода политической глупости", "Европа перед катастрофой, 1890–1914", "Загадка XIV века") она описание битв почти полностью игнорирует, сосредотачиваясь на этих самых интригах, а также на общественно-политических последствиях решений политиков. Не так увлекательно, но не менее интересно, такой вот парадокс!Много узнал о католической церкви времен Средневековья и раннего Ренессанса. Это такой карнавал алчности и безумия, что глаза из орбит вылезают.
Insightful, particularly for a history noob like myself, Barb's writing is full of relevant advice, reflected in the mistakes of the past. Although written in the 80s, the book remains valuable and interesting, and I always felt like I was in well-researched, objectively neutral hands when reading. I came away feeling like I had learned quite a lot. I felt like I could better underrstand the pitfalls of bad government decision making and how to avoid making the same mistakes if I was ever in a situation involving institutional / national dilemma.
However, Tuchman presents the circumstances leading to and pushing forward the American Revolution from the perspective of the British parliament and government officials.
It's a fascinating variation on a theme and story I have read about many times over but never from this angle.Perhaps the most challenging chapter of the book was the one related to the Vietnam War. My feelings on the war are nuanced, as they probably should be, but Tuchman presents details and information in The March of Folly I was completely ignorant to.
The March of Folly is an excellent academic study of the four events or time periods previously listed.
While I found her arguments well reasoned I could not shake the feeling that much of the evidence was carefully selected to prove her points while counter evidence was left out.The March of Folly is an attempt to create a precise definition of “folly” in rulership and the consequences of that folly.
As another example, it can only be folly if another reasonable alternative choice is available yet the counter productive choice is made.To make her argument, Tuchman presents four case studies from widely disparate eras of history: The Trojan’s bringing the horse into the city, the reins of the late 15th to early 16th century popes that resulted in the Protestant reformation, the British actions that lead to the American Revolution, and the U.
