https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/120560.Machineries_of_Joy
Priests josh each other about papal encyclicals on space exploration; in cinemas Irish guys sprint for the exit before the English anthem comes on; just before the big battle the general gives a beautiful personal pep-talk to the little frightened drummer boy; an old woman confronts Death in the form of a charming young man with a bottle in his hand which contains the day before she turned 18; a guy wishes everyone in the world except his wife and son would just disappear, and they do (cue instant nostalgia for yesterday); a mad old guy remembers the detail of consumerist plenitude (sweet wrappers, bicycle clips, flavours of ice cream) before the big disaster struck and everybody ended up on severe rations; aliens invade earth via mail order; you can see that Ray Bradbury wasn’t short of ideas for stories, and God knows he could whisk up a whole string of beautiful titles, but mostly, in this period of his writing, it was like his DNA had been fused with Bambi – you know in The Fly where Seth Brundle’s DNA gets fused with a fly and he becomes Brundlefly?
Raise Giant Mushrooms in Your Cellar!" "And So Died Riabouchinska" "The Beggar on O'Connell Bridge " There was many different types of stories in this collection.
"The One Who Waits" was from the POV of a weird alien waiting for humans to prey on in Mars type of story.
"The Beggar on O'Connell Bridge" was a little wonderful story about a tourist couple in Dublin and how they try to deal with beggars who they feel acts different roles to get sympathy and their money.
The beggar in the title is different.
One of several mundane,general fiction type stories in the collection.
Generally more concerned with familiar and contemporary settings, Bradbury also flexes his language with the sensibilities of a poet, as in his evocation of age: "The sand fell through the glass beyond counting.
The snows fell through the glass, too, applying and reapplying whiteness to whiteness..."Among the gems included in this collection of 21 short stories are quite a number which deal with the topic of death, yet the tone is not so much somber as impassioned, a celebration of the irrational triumph of fleeting life over the certainty of eternal death.
The cover has nearly fallen off, the spine threatens to crack in two or three places, and the pages are well-yellowed with age.
I loved this collection of short stories.
It's difficult to describe but it's like not being able to focus on a magic eye picture.
With Bradbury I can mostly 'see the picture' from the first sentence or two and get completely entranced, but that just didn't work for me.The cover bills this as a collection of horror stories, but it's really not.
The last story in particular, The Anthem Sprinters was one that I read just before going to bed and I was able to turn out the light with a smile on my face that didn't fade for several minutes.
This book was published in 1964 but it has a timely topic - "Because of the sunspots, all the towns in all the Western world have had enough silence to last them ten years." The protagonists discuss their experience with TV - "What have we ever seen on TV?" "Saw a woman wrestle a bear two falls out of three, one night.""Who won?""Damned if I know." Pretty much sums it up.Some Live Like Lazarus: A creepy love story about a son and his overbearing Mom.So Died Riabouchinska: A man in love with a marionette - reminiscent of a Twilight Zone episode.Death and the Maiden: Another story reminiscent of Twilight Zone - an old woman bars her door to "Death".To the Chicago Abyss: A bleak tale of the future - similar to Farenheit 451.
Bradbury is an excellent writer - imaginative stories told through potent, imagery-laden prose.
He's most commonly referred to as a Sci-Fi writer, and while he has contributed marvelously to that genre, his talents exceed what I typically think of as "sci-fi writing." Some of the best writing in this collection occurs in the story about the maiden courted by death (not so much sci fi as fantasy/surrealism), the story called "The Lifework of Juan Diaz" (not remotely sci fi), and the story about the beggars in Dublin - also not sci-fi at all.
I love Bradbury's flexibility and authenticity.
I also appreciate reading short stories that give me beautiful language to enjoy and deep thoughts to entertain.
A few summers ago, I enacted the Bradbury Challenge - read one Bradbury short story every day. After reading over 200 short stories, I was worried I'd read most of the good ones. However, every summer since, I've picked the Challenge back up, and what can you say about a man who wrote nearly 600 short stories...
Not the best Ray Bradbury collection, but there were some interesting ones in there.
I think only two of the stories are science fiction, the rest are a melange of topics.
This collection exemplifies why Bradbury didn't like to be referred to as a science-fiction writer; he's more of a fantasy writer.
There's not much "science" in his stories, even the ones that take place in space or on other planets.
My favorite of his books is "Dandelion Wine," which is realistic fiction.
If you are looking for a collection of short stories that shows an amazing breadth of imagination, check out this book.
Encaré este libro buscando un poco de ciencia ficción y me terminé encontrando con mucho más que eso. Excelente como todo lo que leí de Bradbury a la fecha. Leerlo en una edición de Minotauro de 1972 fue un lindo condimento.
Siempre es hermoso leer relatos de Ray Bradbury
Though not Ray Bradbury’s most famous collection, and not containing his most famous stories, “The Machineries of Joy” is nonetheless a masterclass in short story writing; a virtuoso demonstration finding the haunting and beautiful and disturbing and sublime just underneath the surface of the mundane world.These twenty one stories are varied in tone and genre and setting, but taken together are a concise exhibition of Bradbury’s ability to find reverie in every pocket and crevice of human experience.Though the author bounds gleefully through several narrative traditions, there are little families of stories that are connected by their settings or genres.* The SCI FI stories – The One Who Waits would fit comfortably in the pages of “The Martian Chronicles” and Boy!
This is a collection of Ray Bradbury short stories, which is not uncommon.
The only connective thread in this book seems to be that all of these stories were published in magazines over the previous decade and most of them had not been collected prior to this time.
I was unfamiliar with most of these stories prior to this book.Some of the stories feel like rehashings of themes Bradbury has covered in other works (e.g. The One Who Waits about possession by alien minds or The Lifework of Juan Diaz about Mexican mummies).
The Machineries of Joy, a collection of stories written in the early 60s, isn’t by the same Ray Bradbury we all know and love.
The Machineries of Joy though is written by an altogether moodier writer.By moodier, I don’t mean worse.
This is a change of pace from his daring leads who will pilot a rocket into the sun or leave Earth for Mars like in his other books.
If you want something that’s deep and sometimes quite bleak while remaining down-to-earth this is the collection for you.To read my full review, go to: http://coreysbook.wordpress.com/2012/...
Some great stories, some okay stories, and some rehashing of old ideas. Not the finest collection of stories that Bradbury has come up with, but it does hold some great tales, including what can only be an homage to his lifelong friend and colleague, Ray Harryhausen, in the story entitled "Tyrannosaurus Rex", and a great take on Jack Finney's "Invasion of the Body Snatchers" in "Boys! Raise Giant Mushrooms in Your Cellar!"
მეტს ველოდი ამ კრებულისგან.სულ 4-5 მოთხრობა მომეწონა; "ბედნიერების მექანიზმები", "შაილოს პატარა მედოლე", "ამბავი საოცარი ქმნილების" და ერთიც არ მახსოვს რომელი იყო, დედამიწაზე მარტო ერთი ოჯახი რომ არის დარჩენილი, მემგონი "არდადეგები".
The Illustrated Man is better. Some of the stories in The Machineries of Joy were just plain uninteresting... There are some pretty strong redeemers... but overall it wasn't as worth it as The Illustrated man.
რამდენიმე ძალიან კარგი მოთხრობაა. განსაკუთრებით ბოლო.
Still fantastic by any other author's standards but not the book I would leap to if I wanted to relax with Bradbury. The man was brilliant but these stories are merely good and very good.
Such a sweet book! Snatched it up at my local used book sale; they have tons of vintage books, which means tons of Bradbury!This book is probably best for hardcore fans who just want to own every story possible. It contains some things I, a pretty intense reader, hadn't ever read before (the Ravens story comes to mind; fantastic work I couldn't put down), but not all the stories are fantastic. Really, it's just a cute little volume of some fairly random Bradbury stories. Wouldn't rec as a primer for new fans, but very sweet!
1/2 of the stories in this collection were absolutely wonderful. 1/4 were merely okay and another 1/4 were a waste of time. All in all, that means that a full 3/4's of the book was worth the effort. All in all, as short story collections go, that's a decent ratio. I would recommend this collection to the Bradbury fan but the casual reader should embark on a tour of the true Bradbury canon before approaching this.
I, for one, thought this to be an excellent collection. Although, be I honest, I don't think there's a think Mister Bradbury ever wrote that I haven't loved irrevocably from the very start. This is a top-notch collection in my opinion, certainly one worth tracking down on eBay or Amazon.
I think I've finally figured out that Ray Bradbury isn't for me. Not what I was expecting from the synopsis on the back of the book. I was hoping for a little more excitement, and the stories fell flat for me; they tend to be a little (or a lot!) convoluted also.
Un compendio exquisito de cuentos del mejor Bradbury. Por momentos hay referencias a Crónicas Marcianas y por otros se transporta a épocas posmodernas e incluso al ámbito hollywoodense. Una mezcla de fantasía, ahogo emocional y belleza existencial.
La Revolución de la Alegría!
A couple of decent yarns, but mostly poor.
Average collection. Some of the shorts really stand out, others don’t really resolve or conclude.
Another great collection of writings from Ray Bradbury.
Have to be in a particular mood to enjoy Bradbury, personally. Some stories more salient than others, some odd in a way that just wasnt me.
Have to be in a particular mood to enjoy Bradbury, personally. Some stories more salient than others, some odd in a way that just wasn´t me.
A collection of relatively short short stories, leaning more to the fantasy side of Bradbury, the book is full of traditional Bradbury wonderment.
Bradbury es simplemente un genio
