https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1808367.Meteor_Menace
Doc Savage and his crew are in Chile for the dedication of a hospital when a mysterious, blue glowing meteor passes overhead, causing them to lose their mental capacities until they wake up -- in Tibet/ How did that happen? I can't say without spoiling it, but it is a hell of a good pulp adventure!
I read this some 42 years ago. I couldn't remember any of it this go-around, which I'm not sure speaks more to my ADHD or if it the story was that forgettable. Some might suggest the latter simply because this is "pulp fiction" (you have to stick your nose in the air when you say that). Still, its typical Doc Savage, which means its non-stop improbable action and just a fun read (although i tend to cringe more these days at the blatant and not so blatant racism, which was more commonplace 80+ years ago).
March 1934 brought readers the Meteor Menace. From Chile to Tibet, Doc trails the evil Mo-Gwei and his henchmen Shrops and Saturday Loo. Or are they his henchmen after all. This book explored a new scientific discover, radiation, and what dangers it might bring. Since this was new territory, Lester Dent took some liberties, and gave radiation very dangerous properties indeed. Almost too realistic for its time, Meteor Menace is a very exciting yarn, and one of the few times Doc seems genuinely upset at the conclusion of the tale and the fate of the villain.
There's a "Hardy Boys" effect to reading the Doc Savage stories: in most cases, plot amnesia commences immediately after closing the book. The writing is remarkable in its weird belt-and-suspenders attitude, suggesting a thing in one sentence, confirming it in the next, and belaboring the point in the third, as though the reader can't be trusted to draw conclusions without help.
Back in the day (as the saying goes) I read all the Doc Savage titles that Bantam published. I found them generally a fast and pleasurable read.
A blue meteor is causing troubles for Doc Savage and his men.
They race to the aid of Rae Stanley, a young woman who has lost her father to an evil genius named Mo-Gwei.
We discover that the meteor is part of a larger piece of radioactive space debris which causes humans to lose all brain function.
The twist at the end, very much like Scooby Doo, is the discovery that Mo-Gwei is Professor Stanley, the girl's father, who has been negatively affected by the radioactive substance and gone crazy.
Another good Doc adventure that I read back in the 70s.
Original publication order: #13 (March 1934)Bantam reprint order: #3I've been taking a break from Doc Savage for a few months, but this was a good way to get back into the habit. Picking up almost immediately after the events of  The Man Who Shook the Earth , Doc and his fantastic crew get swept up in an adventure leading from the deserts of Chile to the frozen heights of Tibet. Many of the classic elements are here: a truly bizarre weapon, a flamboyantly fiendish villain, a healthy dose of gadg
Original publication order: #13 (March 1934)Bantam reprint order: #3I've been taking a break from Doc Savage for a few months, but this was a good way to get back into the habit.
Any story which involves a meteorite really needs to give a starring role to Johnny (Hellooo, Mr. Dent!
Go get 'em, Doc!Side note: This story was just a tiny bit uncomfortable for me personally, because in reading it I spotted a few coincidental parallels to my own novel, 
(which is an homage to Doc, but one that makes no reference to any specific stories).
As hero pulp tales go, "Meteor Menace" has it all, including the bestowing of "favorite Doc Savage novel" title from me, though it's a close competition.
As a 15-year-old when I first read this, I'd never have heard of Antofagasta, Chile, without Doc visiting the place to dedicate a hospital and start us on the adventure written about here.
I always liked it when individual Doc stories didn't exist in a vacuum."Meteor Menace," the 13th Doc Savage novel, from March 1934, also is less pulpy and better written than the very earliest entries in the canon.
Ham and Monk don’t quite make it, and once the meteor has passed, Doc finds them senselessly flailing about.
It’s obvious Rae is telling tall tales, especially when she tells Doc he killed the two men who brought her to Antofogasta before they got engaged.
Doc puts it all together just in time, saving Tibet and all the world from the evil Mo Gwei and his blue meteor, and finding a cure for all those previously afflicted by it.It had been awhile since I had read a Doc Savage adventure, and this book was a fun way to delve back in with Doc and the gang.
The first Doc Savage story appeared in 1933 and the series ran in pulp and later digest format into 1949.
The characterizations were far richer than was common for the pulps; his five associates and their sometimes-auxiliary, Doc's cousin Pat, and the pets Chemistry and Habeas Corpus, all had very distinctive characteristics and their byplay was frequently more entertaining that the current adventure-of-the-month.
The settings were also fascinating: Doc's Fortress of Solitude, the Hidalgo Trading Company (which served as a front for his armada of vehicles), and especially the mysterious 86th floor headquarters all became familiar haunts to the reader, and the far-flung adventures took the intrepid band to exotic and richly-described locations all over the world.
The Doc Savage books have always been my favorite entertainments...
This book continues the weak dialogue and poor characterization found in the first two volumes of Doc Savage by Kenneth Robeson (Lester Dent).
I'd say these books were written for young kids because of the complete lack of characterization for the lead and supporting cast, but there is some pretty explicit violence/killings in it that skew the age much older.
If you enjoy well thought out characters, great dialogue or a plot that makes sense, you're best looking elsewhere.
If all you need is some quick action bits without anything holding them together, then this is the book and series for you.
Of all the pulp era heroes few stand out above the crowd, Doc Savage is one of these. With his 5 aides and cousin he adventures across the world. Fighting weird menaces, master criminals and evil scientists Doc and the Fab 5 never let you down for a great read. These stories have all you need; fast paced action, weird mystery, and some humor as the aides spat with each other. My highest recommendation.
1930's pulp action-adventure. Doc Savage and the Fabulous Five on a mission to rescue a missing astrophysicist, which takes them from Chile to Tibet. Battling rival criminal factions who want control of the mysterious Blue Meteor, a strange celestial phenomenon that has a devastating effect an all who see it.This probably takes longer to read than it did to write - turn off your brain and enjoy a superficial, but rip-roaring, non-stop adventure.
Doc faces one of the greatest threats in his career: a blue comet, that makes everyone mad in its wake. Even Doc falls to insanity!A very imaginative entry, wich globe-trotter from Chile to Tibet. The identity of Mo-Gwei even got me by surprise. Couldn't stop thinking: "How the hell they will explain this?"
read some time in summer of 1966
Always enjoy Doc Savage stories.
reread this possibly in winter 1968
read SOMETIME in 2011
Doc Savage is a pulp icon. It was quick and fun to read. I'd love to read more if I can find them.
