https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17274667-metro-2033
You only have to read the Strugatsky Brothers' "Roadside Picnic" (or watch the film version, "Stalker"), Gansovsky's "A Day of Wrath" or watch Lopushansky's amazing "Letters From A Dead Man" to realise that they understand what it is to live on the edge of the abyss.Claustrophobic, dark cul-de-sacs of danger and terror, "Metro 2033" is a world of uncertainties and fear, hung on the fringes between survival and death.
I never realised that you can read a book through your fingers as you wait for the horrors to leap out from the ruins and the dark.This is, of course, an Odyssey and our brave Ulysses has to strive through his labours as he comes face-to-face with the demons that litter his nightmare world distorted and turned inside out by humanity.
The inhabitants are now into the second generation, and Glukhovsky touches on some of the adaptive changes humans have undergone as a result of living in a lightless world, believing themselves the last representatives of humanity.
But one of the main flaws of the book as I see it is that Glukhovsky simply does not pay enough attention to building a cohesive, believable world, and the promise in the premise is not fulfilled.
Glukhovsky's primary concern is with relating the adventures of his 'hero' Artyom, a young man drawn ostensibly by chance into a strange quest to save the metro system.
Soon, factions emerged, ranging from the independent peacekeepers the "Rangers of the Order", to the communist "Red Line" faction and the fascist "Fourth Reich", to the more powerful factions such as "Polis", which contained the greatest military power and the most knowledge of the past, and the "Hanza" regime, which controlled the main ring of metro stations by its sheer economic power.
The protagonist of the novel is a 20-year-old man named Artyom who was born before the nuclear holocaust.
Sukhoi is now one of the authorities of VDNKh, one of the stations in the Russian metro, and has raised Artyom as his son.
OH MY GOD....I can`t believe I`ve just finished this book....The best last stand for humanity I`ve e
Post-nuclear survival tale within the metro tunnels, humanity becoming Morlocks and strange flying creatures preventing any egress.
Maybe it was just the utter feel of being disillusioned by all the lies that we humans keep telling ourselves, and maybe it was that old Russian pragmatism at work, but I thought this was both the novel's main strength and main weakness.Maybe I wasn't in the mood for it.
And maybe I've already had my fill of such classic translated Russian novels.
:) Either way, I appreciated this novel while not entirely getting into it.That's not to say it wasn't full of great parts.
Surprisingly monotonous novel.
Reading it it becomes obvious that postapocalyptic setting, strange events and bizarre creatures are not enough for a good novel.
The structure is repetitive, there is no overall development of main character's psyche, except at the very end, too late, I'm afraid.
Events are arbitrary, there are too many unnecessary descriptions of metro stations and reader looses himself in all the mentioned tunnels.
Women play no important role, there is none, except for some hysterical mother here and there.
I take it for granted it is a SF novel, but still there are many inconsistencies which could be easily avoided with a careful editing.
Pockets of civilisation have formed at different stations, each with their own politics, religions and mythologies.But there are things in the darkness, and there are things in the outside world that want in…Metro 2033 is a good idea, and a fine example of Sci-Fi Horror.
Unfortunately the reverse is also true: when it stumbles...ConsThere is often a lot of dialogue that doesn’t seem relevant to the story.
There are so many stations and factions that I found it difficult to separate them in my mind (the map didn’t really help) and eventually everything blurred together (it’s all just one dark tunnel with a station attached).
Are you tired of stupid Young Adult books with stupid protagonists who are worried about who they should kiss rather than how to survive? Then this is for you.Real survival, real struggle, and a very elaborated setting take Metro 2033 to new levels of "things went wrong here".This book won't try to babysit you, so don't expect an easy read.
The premise of Metro 2033 is excellent, and the ultimate conclusion of the story (the last 10 pages), though treading on an overused SF trope, could have added an excellent undercurrent to the plot.
He rambles on for ages about Artyom's travels through the metro, yet the motivation for his doing so seems sketchy, at best, until the last 10 pages.
I was appalled at how wasteful this book was of its ideas, characters, setting and, most importantly, my time.All this is without even mentioning the massive amount of typos, grammatical errors, wrong names, and general sloppiness of the English translation.
After reading Dmitry Glukhovsky's Metro 2033, I felt compelled to offer a review.
Lead protagonist Artyom is very believable as he analyzes the politics at work during his journey to try and save the future of mankind.Glukhovsky criticizes Communism, institutionalized religion, cult worship, man's inabilty to get along with his neighbours, the futility of capitalism and the hopelessness of war (I'm sure I'm missing a few).
I am unfortunately forced to put this book on hold.I'm not quite sure why. There was a point where I just lost interest entirely. It's not bad, far from it. The opening chapters were very interesting, and made the promise of a fascinating postapocalyptic setting in the Moscow metro. However, I just lost the thread at some point. I started reading other books on the side, and eventually I was no longer interested in picking this one back up. I tried a few times, but could never find the desire to read more in it.Maybe another time.
در سال ٢٠١٣،دنيا،در جنگ جهاني سوم و اتمي نابود شده است.پس از ٢٠ سال،اكنون در سال ٢٠٣٣ زندگي بر روي س
7/10Πρώτο βιβλίο της χρονιάς (αν και κανονικά σχεδόν όλο διαβάστηκε πέρσι).Σε γενικές γραμμές μου άρεσε, αυτά που το κράτησαν λιγάκι πιο κάτω στη βαθμολογία, σχεδόν δεν έχουν να κάνουν καν μ' αυτό, αφού: -Ήξερα αρκετά για την πλοκή εκ των προτέρων, τόσο από το βιντεοπαιχνίδι όσο και από ένα φόρουμ που είχα περιηγηθεί παλιότερα.-Διάβασα πολλούς σύγχρονους Αμερικανούς σερί το τελευταίο δίμηνο και λίγο επηρεάστηκα από τη Δυτική λογοτεχνία, με αποτέλεσμα ο Ρώσος να μου φανεί λίγο πιο εκτός των συνηθισμένων (μου).
(Ήταν ωστόσο αναγκαίο).Από εκεί και πέρα, απόλαυσα ένα ωραίο βιβλίο, που ήταν ξεκάθαρα στα γούστα μου.

Amongst the fear and growing chaos a young man, Artyom, begins a journey to the center of the metro network, to warn the people there of the dangers that are coming.I love this setup.
I also got the feeling sometimes that the text may have lost some of its grace in translation, leading to some clunky bits that I'm sure flowed better in the original Russian.Overall though this book is an enjoyable read, and the long, dark tunnels of the Moscow metro have stayed with me.
Whenever my train passes through the Melbourne Metro I now find myself casting around for a patch of ground that would make a good mushroom farm.
Čini se da ništa ne može da zaustavi njegovu dugu i neretko monotonu priču.Ono što mi je takođe zapalo za oko jeste da ovaj roman nema ženskih likova.
Njegova motivacija je sve vreme upitna, čini se da ni on sam ne zna šta zapravo mora da uradi, a kraj romana donosi preokret koji nije ostavio na mene naročit utisak.
Mesto dešavanja je nezaboravno, pisac se trudi da u svoj roman uključi brojne filozofske i religijske rasprave, ali nema uverljivih likova koji će sve to povezati u smislenu celinu.
Na kraju, mogu reći da mi se roman svideo, ali ne i da sam uživao u njemu.
People, you say? No, my friend, they are beasts. They are a pack of jackals. They were preparing to tear us apart. And they would have. But they forgot one thing. They are jackals but I am a wolf. Most people who come to Metro 2033 probably do so after playing the excellent video game adaptation (you can see the trailer here). The game is an immersive first person shooter with great atmosphere, and has received very favorable reviews. I completed it once, and would like to do so again one day.
Glukhovsky started writing the book when he was just 18 years old, and first published it on the internet for free in 2002 (complete Russian text is still available on his personal website).
People organized themselves into fractions, with two biggest ones - the communist Red Line and the fascist Fourth Reich - engaging in a full and permanent war with one another over the metro and its resources.
Every encounter will have an influence on Artyom, and shape his character throughout his journey.Unlike the game, however, Metro 2033 is a lot less action oriented and linear.
Very dark and atmospheric book, and a good game to boot - I can't wait to read the sequel.
Ideološke podjele stvaraju tenzije i sukobe u unutarnjem sustavu podzemne željeznice te predstavljaju fenomenalnu kritika današnjem društvu, koje je iako u drugačijem okruženju zapravo vrlo slično po ponašanju društvu u knjizi.Jedna od posebnosti knjige je da čitatelj ima potrebu svako malo zavirivati na unutrašnjost korica kako bi detektirao gdje se nalazi spomenuta stanica s obzirom da knjiga dolazi s cjelokupnom kartom podzemne željeznice koja prikazuje sve stanice i pripadajućom legendom.
Dieses Dunkle und Schwermütige, was man von anderen Russen kennt, zeigt sich doch tatsächlich auch diesem Buch.
Das Buch geht in eine völlig andere Richtung.Unser 20jährige Protagonist Artjom ist in der Metro groß geworden, nachdem ein nuklearer Schlag Moskau vor vielen Jahren vernichtet hat.
Wir haben unter anderem die Hanse (Kapitalisten) auf der Ringlinie, das Vierte Reich (Faschisten), der Kommunisten, die Zeugen Jehovas und eine Sekte, die an den großen Wurm als Gottheit glaubt.
Zu diesem Zeitpunkt ist das Buch eine große Gesellschafts- und Glaubenskritik und irgendwann begann ich tatsächlich die Monster aus dem Spiel zu vermissen.
Μόσχα ,έτος 2033.Ο κόσμος έχει καταστραφεί μετά απο πυρηνικό πόλεμο.Μερικές χιλιάδες άνθρωποι κατάφε
The people there were pretty clever and ran for the underground Metro Stations to get away from all the crap happening on the surface.
I am slightly confused here because Artyom has some memories of living on the surface with his mother, but he is 20, meaning the nuclear war destroyed Moscow when he was born.
Go Artyom, you go fight those monsters in the tunnels and get to Polis before it is all too late!
Well, I get bogged down at each station where Artyom meets people who always help him a bit on his journey.
Mult prea lungă și prea stufoasă ca să reprezinte o lectură facilă.
Acțiunea trenează în multe locuri, iar filozofările multor personaje afectează acțiunea și povestea.
Nu știu cum e jocul, dar mi-am imaginat că în carte vor fi lupte continue cu mutanți prin tunelurile metroului moscovit.
Mult sânge, deși nu prea sunt multe lupte, multă durere, mult chin și multă disperare.
Dar la ce să te aștepți când omenirea a fugit de radițiile nimicitoare în galeriile metroului și se luptă să supraviețuiască de ani buni încoace, crescând porci, cultivând ciuperci și luptându-se cu mutanții, cu oamenii din alte stații sau cu propriile temeri?
Mai multe, pe FanSF: http://wp.me/pz4D9-2zI.

ვისაც მოსკოვის მეტროთი უმგზავრია და ამ სადგურების დიდი ნაწილი აქვს გავლილი, მისთვის, ალბათ, კიდევ უკეთესი იქნება. ჩვენს მეტროზე რომ გადმოვიტანოთ, ალბათ, სასაცილო პოსტაპოკალიპტური გარემო გამოვიდოდა და ას გვერდში მორჩებოდა, მაგრამ მაინც საინტერესო შეიძლება ყოფილიყო. მარტივად იკითხება, "ბრძნული საუბრებიც" მარტივი ენით არის, სიუჟეტიც ნორმალური - ერთ დღეში რომ წაგაკითხებს თავს, ცუდი არ უნდა იყოს. ნეტაი, წიგნის კორექტორი არ დაღლილიყო ბოლოში, მაგრამ ეგ წგინის ღრისებებს ჩდრილს დდად ვერ აყნეებს :3
DNF-ed after 100 pages, so I'm not going to give it a rating.It was 100% telling and no showing. Adding the Dostoyevsky-ish style... not for me. Which is a shame, cause I'm a fan of post apocalyptic, dystopian books. I loved the plot (even though I would have liked to know more about what happened), but the writing style is just bleah.My favourite parts where those where they talked about the outside world. About the radiations, about the sun etc.But this is a no from me.
Bleh.
No. Interesting concept that wasn't used to its fullest.
Boring main character - don't care what happens to him or what he has to say and what he thinks.
Awful, boring, unengaging language.
The dialogue was laughable, the writing all in all was...
meh.
I don't know how much it is due to the translator but, didn't work at all.
Info dumps.
While it is necessary to present the metro and the stations and the like it was confusing and not done very well.
The ending was a tiny bit interesting and food for thoughts but just meh.
I was seriously going to give it 4 stars, because yeah, I really liked it, and that was it, but last chapter changed everything. You broke my heart, Glukhovsky, you bastard.Hmm, but I still have some questions. Need to think about it all one more time.
Ich mag russische Literatur und dieses Buch hat mich auch nicht enttäuscht.
Ich sage nicht, dass Glukhovsky die Geschichte verkürzen musste, ich weiss es auch nicht, wie man das besser machen könnte.
Ich frage mich nur, ob alles nötig war, um die Philosophie des Buches noch deutlicher zu machen.
Wenn Artjom's Stifvater das Gesicht der angeblichen Mutter nicht erkannt hat, habe ich die russische Signature nochmal entdeckt und mich darüber gefreut.
Ich freue mich auf die anderen Bücher von Glukhovsky.PS - wie wäre es, wenn irgenwann die Ameisen zu schwarze riesigen Mutanten werden würden?
Глуховски създава динамичен метро-святЦялото ревю тук: http://knijenpetar.blogspot.bg/2015/1...
От доста време пренебрегвам руските съвременни автори, но вече е време да си припомня онова, с което са световно известни – фантастиката.
Темата не изглежда кой знае колко новаторска и идейна, но ако човек погледне колко невероятно голямо е московското метро, нещата отиват на по-високо ниво.
В не много далечното бъдеще, човечеството е направило най-грешната си стъпка – ядрена война, довела до пълен крах на технологиите, културата и изобщо всичко онова, което го поставя на върха на еволюционната пирамида.
Едно от тези места се намира под мегаполиса Москва – тунелите на местното метро.
(Продължава в блога: http://knijenpetar.blogspot.bg/2015/1...)
Good stuff! Fast-paced, straight-to-the point-with-no-longcut-prose, great world-building (or rather, un-building, ha!), a neat ending begging for a sequel... so yeah, glad I've got that one under my belt!
