https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/901680.Edvard_Munch
- Which one do you prefer, The Scream or Puberty?- Oh, I think they're munch of a munchness.
I have read this book twice and will always come back to it. It is a standard art book about the artist Edvard Munch and tells about his life and work. The illustrations are of good quality and show how his work progressed throughout his life. It is slightly heavy and I would have liked to know a bit more about the artist as a person. I found it a bit impersonal and cold and feel I need to buy another book to find out more about the man, how he felt , his love(s) and what made him tick.
Short and sweet discription of Munch's life and paintings that offers some helpful interpretations and insights into the world of Munch - a world between heaven and hell / life and death.
Munch has been one of my favourite painters since high school.His work is like my alter ego: full of colours but at the same time pesimistic, personal but still out there ready to interact with others. I really enjoy his works and how he expresses what he sees and feels. I like that almost in every of his works you can see people but still they are not really full portrayed.His best works that most appeals to me are, Melancholy, The three stages of woman, ofc The scream, The kiss and Woman on the Verandah.
A good starter guide to the works of Edvard Munch.
I'm either neurotic or just dedicated, probably both.
There is nothing in the book's written analysis of Munch that is groundbreaking or exceptionally insightful, but at the same time it is fairly informative in its brief 96 pages, doesn't try to bite off more Munch than it can chew, and doesn't spew forth idiotic theories on his art.
Of course there are also lots of wonderful illustrations on this special fellow who took us on a whole new run-----guess he's considered famous, but I still consider him under-appreciated.
The dissection of the pieces presented was interesting for the most part, but it's mostly made me curious to read more about Munch's life to get further perspective on the moodiness of his work. The artwork is gloriously rendered in this collection. I've had this book for years and never read the text, so I wasn't sure what to expect from this or any Taschen book in general--I own several and have never read the text of those either. I needed a quick read and I'm glad I chose it.
I really liked this type of art book because it made it easy to read and understand the history of the artist.
His major works were nicely presented and the three brief essays were enough to outline the themes and reception that his art garnered in his life.
My only criticism is there were too few glimpses into his personal life and how that might have impacted his art.
But, this collection is worth having if nothing else for looking at his art, which changed as the times around him changed so radically from turn of the century angst to the rise of the totalitarians.Download my starter library for free here - http://eepurl.com/bFkt0X - and receive my monthly newsletter with book recommendations galore for the Japanophile/crime fiction/English teacher in all of us.
Kurz. prägnant, informativ. Kurzum sehr gutes Preis-Leistungsverhältnis.
Algún día iré a Aasgaardstrand, mientras tanto me conformo con leer sobre Munch.
These Taschen-books are (a good start) for every artlover with good texts and illustrations.
Nature is not only all that is visible to the eye... it also includes the inner pictures of the soul
"Caminhava eu com dois amigos pela estrada, então o sol pôs-se; de repente, o céu tornou-se vermelho como o sangue. Parei, apoiei-me no muro, inexplicavelmente cansado. Línguas de fogo e sangue estendiam-se sobre o fiorde preto-azulado. Os meus amigos continuaram a andar, enquanto eu ficava para trás tremendo de medo e senti o grito enorme, infinito, da natureza."(Edvard Munch)
The book is fantastic
This book was a great read!
bad
<3
