https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6618.The_Easy_Way_to_Stop_Smoking
کسی از روی کنجکاوی یا تفریح دست به مطالعه این کتاب نمی زنه، یا خودش سیگار می کشه یا یکی از اطرافیانش، و خب برای چنین شخصی فقط یه چیز اهمیت داره: این کتاب و متد واقعا کار می کنه؟!
باید بگم آره، قطعا کار می کنهتجربه شخصی منمن اولین سیگار زندگیم رو 8 سال پیش کشیدم و برای 6 سال به قول نویسندهی این کتاب یک سیگاری قهار بودم.
از روز اول تا ابتدای این ماه حدودا 44000 نخ سیگار کشیدم.
از مضرات همه جانبه سیگار برای سلامتی آگاهی کامل داشتم، اما سیگار با عنوان یاور همیشه مومن (شوخی و جدی) در خوداگاه و ناخودآ
نکته مهم اینه که تقریبا اکثر سیگاری‌ها هرچقدرم که از سیگار متنفر باشن باز هم از کنار گذاشتن و نبود اون به ده‌‌ها دلیل منطقی و غیرمنطقی می ترسن، اما چون نویسنده خودش تمام این ترس‌ها رو تجربه کرده و در متن کتاب هم آورده، به این ترس سیگاری ها دامن نمی زنه و به همین دلیل خوندن و به پایان رسوندن کتاب برای کسی که اون رو بدستش گرفت کار سختی نیستپیشنهاد منچیزی تحت عنوان مصرف تفریحی سیگار وجود نداره.
I've had two friends my own age undergo intensely difficult, painful battles against cancer, and i've spent these past few weeks watching a man I really cared about suffer in agony, knowing he wasn't going to get all the years he deserved, probably because of this addiction he'd had since age nine.
I don't really love smoking.Anyway, even if some of that stuff is true, it's way past time to stop.
Susan Sontag talks a lot about this in Illness as Metaphor, and one thing I thought was weird but that I also kind of liked was that she shoved "smoking" in with "unresolved grief" and "pent-up rage" as ridiculous factors that people use to blame other people for getting cancer.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، من یک سیگاری هستم، و هنوز به ترکِ سیگار فکر نکردم.. و مطمئن باشید که با کتاب و نوشته و این قبیل مسائل، کسی نمیتواند سیگار را ترک کند.. چراکه سیگار کشیدن برای هر شخص دلایلِ گوناگونی دارد، بنابراین نمیتوان به آسانی نسخهٔ همه گیر برایِ آن صادر نموددوستانِ بزرگوار، برایِ آغازِ این ریویو و مبحث، من مایل هستم تا سیگار و دخانیات را در دستهٔ "مصرف اجباری" قرار دهمعزیزانم، مصرف اجباری، جانشینی است برایِ اضطراب و نگرانی... نیاز به چنین مصرفی زاییدهٔ احساسِ تهی بودنِ درونی، نا امید بودن، ا
آیا این امر به دلیلِ این است که مردم، استقبالِ یک مرگِ زودرس را به چشم پوشی از یک لذتِ آنی و زودگذر، ترجیح میدهند!!؟ تحلیلِ رفتارِ سیگاری ها و پژوهش در موردِ آن، نشان میدهد که این امر، تا حدِ زیادی یک نوع توجیه برایِ معقول جلوه دادنِ موضوعِ اعتیاد میباشد‎مصرفِ سیگار، تشویش و نگرانی هایِ پنهانی و تنش را کاهش میدهد، و مردم ترجیح میدهند سلامتِ خود را به خطر انداخته، ولی با نگرانیها و تشویش هایِ ذهنیِ خویش روبرو نشوند‎در هر حال، هنگامی که کیفیتِ فراگردِ زندگی، اهمیتِ بیشتری از آنچه امروز در بر دارد، بدست آورد، بسیاری از مردم از سیگار کشیدن یا افراطِ در آن خودداری خواهند کرد.
This is really, truly a terrible book that uses very transparent psychological trickery to convince you to stop smoking. But, it totally worked on me so it gets 5 stars.
then the big time, back in 2002 when i went from being a pack and a half a day smoker to totally over and done using the patch (which i will recommend to each and everyone of you).
and i didn't smoke again for a whole year, but i still wanted to and you know, i used to like to drink a lot and that doesn't always make for dandy decision making, so i started socially smoking.
i immediately felt like i never, ever, ever wanted to smoke again.this book is basically a big mind fuck.
اصلن شايد هدف اصليم از اين ريويو هميناست كه الان دارم ميگم، مريم (برگ ِگل ترين رفيقم) ميگه خوب نيست كه آدم نگران ِ رفيق ترين ِتموم شده ش باشه اما من همونجور بهش فكر ميكنم كه به عزيز جون فكر مي كنم ، همونطور نگرانشم كه نگران عزيز جونم توي اون دنيايي كه من نمي بينمش .
آدم دلش ميگيره از غصه ي آدماي ناپديدشده ي زندگيش، همين .درك اين دل گرفتگي سخت نيست.اگه بدوني وقتي دود سيگارت رو مي بلعي شايد يه گوشه ي دنيا ،رفيق ترين ِسابقت از سرفه و تنگي نفس خفه ميشه در حاليكه اسپري سالبوتامولشو توي ماشين جا گذاشته و تموم گذشته رو مرور ميكنه،.
I started smoking when I was 19 and was a pack a day smoker when I made the decision to quit and began to read this book.
I tried quitting several times before reading this book, either using the patch, the gum or cold turkey, and every time I tried, I was so miserable that I always started smoking again.
I recommend this book to any smoker who says they want to quit ...
If you are a smoker and you want to quit, I'll bet you've tried all the gimmicks, and they don't work, right?
If you change your mind, it will change your life. This book can help you change your mind.
I started smoking at 13.
A friend told me it was magic.
Still didn't think it would work.
Still didn't think it would work.
Still didn't think it would work.
Bought a used copy (it was out of print, can you believe it?!) in 2005 and managed to keep losing it, never read it.
Read it, didn't think it would work.
Never looked back, never missed it.
Believe me, I'd tried everything before, and none of it stuck.
Unbelievable.I just bought 10 copies for friends.
Still don't miss smoking.
Didn't turn me into an ex-smoker.
Turned me into a NON-smoker.Magic.
I actually didn't finish the book, but I did smoke the last cigarette of my life while reading it, and extinguished it in utter disgust.
The book is written at a third grader's level of reading comprehension, and at times, the arguments seem positively infantile.
My brain has completely rewired how I think about cigarettes, smoking, and smokers.
The only two times I previously semi-successfully quit, I would miss cigarettes, and envy smokers, until I fell back off the wagon.
هر بار توی ذهنم یکی از این مشکلات میومد یه سیگار میکشیدم و به خودم اجازه نمیدادم دربارش فکر کنم چه برسه به صحبت .نفرت انگیز ترین کاری که میکردم وقتایی بود که سیگارم تموم میشد و توی خاکسترا دنبال سیگارایی میکشتم که یکم مونده باشن و بتونم حداقل یکی دو پک بزنم .این کار خجالت آور رو برای خودمم مرور نمیکردم .توی سالهایی که سیگاری بودم شدیدا احساس پیری میکردم .
نه درست نفس میکشیدم نه خوب راه میرفتم نمیتونستم ورزش کنم دندونام زرد شده بود وهمیشه بوی نفرت انگیز سیگار میدادم بعد از دوبار یا سه بار ترک ناموفق تصمیم گرفتم دیگه هیچوقت به ترک فکر نکنمتا اینکه این کتابو یکی از دوستانم بهم معرفی کرد .
Give this a shot if you have any desire to quit no matter how small.Second edit: still smoke free more than three years later.
Edit: I said I would change it to 5 stars if I quit.
I definitely highly recommend this book to other smokers who would like to quit.Well, we're currently at three stars on this one because it really did make me think about quitting in a different light.
Practically sounded like a pyramid scam at points.)Still, I haven't had a cigarette since I finished reading it.
I loved this book, it changed my life. Understanding why you smoke and know what you have to do to quit just made sense to me. My husband (who I thought was a lifer) have been smoke free for 3 years, best thing I ever did was read this book. This book opened my eyes to the reality why I smoked and the reasons why I should stop making excuses and just quit. Thank you Allen Carr for saving mine and my husbands life :)
This way the reader reads a chapter, thinks about it, and when he or she smokes, is really aware of the points the author makes in the book.
He states things like a cigarette is no different after a meal, or with coffee, that it's a mind trick or trap that the smoker fell into.
But somehow the solitary act of reading, the reader really does mull it over, and it does sink in.This is a great book, because it puts people in the right frame of mind to quit.
It was 2am on Day 3/4, and it ended like all my previous attempts with a delicious Gauloises.
Not the books fault though and there is still hope.After a week, I think it's time for a mini résumé on Allan Carr's quitting method.As I wrote in the comments, after my lapse on Day 3 I rage quit again (why do I have to make everything so hard?).Anyway the good news for every smoker is: Allan Carr's quitting method works.
The withdrawal symptoms hardly matter, you will feel better immediately.There is also bad news however, at least for me: Staying clean is the hard part.
There still is craving, not as bad as with my previous attempts, and there are still some depressive phases.
زمانی که این کتاب رو شروع کردم به خوندن، یک یا دو روز بود که تصمیم گرفته بودم ترک کنم. چهارمین یا پنجمین یا ششمین تصمیم ترک سیگارم بود. تلاشهایی که هربار فکر میکردم این بار دیگه میتونم و با بارهای قبل فرق داره... اما موضوع این بود که در تمام این تلاشها تصویر سیگار و ریشههای کشیدن و بازکشیدنش خدشهای برنمیداشت و مثل آتیش زیرخاکستر، منتظر وزش بادی میموند تا دوباره آتشافروزی کنه!تصمیم به ترک گرفتم و آرزو این کتاب رو پیدا کرد و گفت که ریویوهای مثبتی ازش خونده و تو فیدیبو هم پیداش کرده. منطق حکم میکرد
این چرا به ذهن خودم نرسیده بود و چرا این‌طوری بهش نگاه نکرده بودم؟ نویسنده دلایل سیگاری‌ها رو، تمام دلایل سیگار کشیدن تمام سیگاری‌ها رو زیر سوال می‌بره و به درستی نقدشون می‌کنه و شمایی که مثل من کم سیگار می کشی یا مثل دوستانم پاکتی سیگار می‌کشید، دیگه دلیلی ندارید برای سیگار کشیدن!
اگر خواهان ترک هستید این کتاب رو بخونید و مطمئن باشید که بعد از خوندن این کتاب دیگه هیچ دلیلی ندارید...
I hate smoking and the cigarette itself is what's making me miserable.
I can understand why this book makes people want to quit smoking.
It's not shock therapy which scares you into quitting.
It explains all the good things that will happen to you when you quit, and while you think you like smoking or that it helps you in some way you find out that you don't and it doesn't.
The book makes you realize that smoking is very unenjoyable.
I am so looking forward to finishing this book and quitting smoking and being freed from the monster.
Obviously not stellar writing, but the book did the trick--I AM A NON-SMOKER! WOO-HOO!!
Yep, that’s right, I’ve been cigarette free for 6 whole months now and feel great!I stopped smoking for 5 years once, then I went back to smoking the thin cigars every now and then at a party.
In the past when I stopped smoking I used the Nicorette nicotine inhaler, and that did work for me then, but this time I tried everything – inhaler, patches, willpower, electric cigarette – and I still couldn’t break the addiction.
So if you want to stop smoking the easy way, you have to read this book.
با سلام خدمت همه دوستانمن این کتاب رو با اسم "آسانترین روش ترک سیگار" از همین نویسنده "آقای آلن کار" خوندم که فکر کنم چاپ قدیمی اش باشه.در کل این کتاب عالیه و خیلی توصیه می شه.ببینید اگر شما سالها سیگار رو ترک کرده باشید و در این مدت لب به سیگار نزده باشید، اگر دچار وسوسه کشیدن دوباره اون بشید یا مثلا با خودتون بگید "کاش می شد فقط یک پک زد" ، این یعنی شما سیگار رو ترک نکردین و در واقع در تمام این سال ها فقط با نفستون در جهت نکشیدن سیگار مبارزه کردین.

This is a very minor detail, but for me it erodes the author's credibility.I further wanted to dislike this book because of Carr's zealous adherence to the status quo — just for an example, his explicitly stated assumption that smokers were able to cope with life before they started smoking, which ignores the high incidence of smoking among oppressed minorities and those with anxiety disorders.For these reasons, I'd like to give this book a 1-star review.However, I began reading it several weeks after I quit smoking, and can now safely say that reading it has definitely helped me to stay quit, to brush off a relapse with very little drama, and to stop feeling so anxious about the "forever-ness" of quitting.
I would quit for a few days, once even for a month or two but then would start up again smoking more than ever.Four years ago my wife gave me this book.
It really works!" Needless to say, I was skeptical, but she had not picked up a cigarette for a couple of weeks, so I decided to give it a try.
I read the book over the next two days (while smoking).
I have not found it necessary to pick up a cigarette again.I am not sure exactly how it works.
A smoker who is only physically, but not mentally weaned, will continue to experience the smell of tobacco, smoking people, and all thoughts and images associated with the inhalation process as positive, the need for cigarettes will be more pronounced in both exceptional situations and daily life, and thus pointless Quality of life is wasted and torment generated.Precisely for this reason, Carr also does not believe in nicotine replacement supplements, as these only artificially prolong the withdrawal and thus the most painful phase.
İnternetten bir forum sitesine bakınıyordum.gözüme küçük bir yazı ilişti.Aynen şu ''sigarayı bırakma
Yeah, it works.
کتابهای ترک سیگار قبل از تو سوء تفاهمی بیش نبود .
I stopped smoking in December last year because of this book and I have not smoked since.
Believe it or not, this book truly works to eliminate that desire to smoke.
I highly recommend persisting with this book, even if you do not believe you will be able to stop.
While there are some people who will read the book in a day and stop immediately, some people will read it one page per day, even one paragraph per day, just to put off the inevitable point when they know they will have to have that last cigarette.
If you properly complete the entire book and follow its directions you will finally be able to shake smoking off for good.
Here's the book in a nutshell (view spoiler)[Smoking is disgusting. You would rather be a non-smoker than a poor, pathetic smoker. Quit smoking and be delighted that you are no longer a disgusting smoker. YIPEE IT'S EASY! And if it's not easy, then there is something wrong with you and you need to reread the book. (hide spoiler)]Yes, I quit smoking 3 days ago and no, it is not easy. Since I am using willpower, Mr. Carr feels that I am doomed to fail.I consider this book to be mostly scare tactic
Here's the book in a nutshell (view spoiler)[Smoking is disgusting. You would rather be a non-smoker than a poor, pathetic smoker. Quit smoking and be delighted that you are no longer a disgusting smoker. YIPEE IT'S EASY! And if it's not easy, then there is something wrong with you and you need to reread the book.  (hide spoiler)]Yes, I quit smoking 3 days ago and no, it is not easy. Since I am using willpower, Mr. Carr feels that I am doomed to fail.I consider this book to be mostly scare tactics and BS.
I did it! ^_^
