https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30226.A_Stroke_of_Midnight
We’re going different places, you and I, Ms. Hamilton – we need to part ways, literally.Both of Laurell K.
It seems like more is going to happen what with reporters dying in the sithen, and police being brought in to investigate murders, but then everything is nicely wrapped up in the end (or maybe we get a shocking revelation in the next book?).
We’re still wondering here who is going to get Meredith pregnant, and people keep obtaining new powers, so that at least keeps the story more interesting than the Anita Blake series.
Actually, less a review and more a roasting.
If you don't already know about all the sex.I've been hearing about Lauell K Hamilton's Anita Blake and Merry Gentry series' for a while, so was curious to see what the fuss was about.
The vaguely interesting murder to be solved at the start of the book is completely hi-jacked by their sexual hi-jinks, as Merry apparently has made it her mission to have sex every seven pages.
Then I would develop a spreadsheet tracking the usage of each letter of the alphabet in the bible.
After then, MAYBE I'd think about picking up the other book.
oh oh oh, okay so we are going a different direction here.
the fact that when they see the facts of what is happening and people are still willing to kill Merry.
(view spoiler)[breaking down because he thought that the ring chose Mistral oh my gods.
I still love his brooding and I want to poke him in the face because of it but really can't be frost without a little brood.
Okay I am going to gush.
I am hands down obsessed with this character and I know with my luck he is not going to be playing a major role.
Happy reading!!
*Sigh*I didn't think it would come to this point.But it has.I've resorted to making an excel sheet so that I can remember everyone this girl is fucking.I did this with the Anita Blake books and stopped reading them because my excel sheet was needing too much upkeep.
I spent more time on that damn document then I did reading.I feel like Merry Gentry books are coming to that.Unfinished list of Merry's fuck buddies so far: (view spoiler)[Doyle: darkness.
makes me think of pukeKitto: Goblin, looks like a 12 year old apparently but she still has sex with himSage: only gave him head.

More of the same with Hamilton. Lots of sex interrupted by a bit of plot. This book pretty much takes place in the span of only one day and we see Merry get more action than porn star. Only reason I read these books is because Hamilton does write well and her plot (what little there is of it) is extremely interesting and is a fully developed fantasy world with many well defined characters. Shame the author can't get over her sexual fetish though. I miss the style of the early Anita Blake novels. Sometimes less is more.
This one didn't even get two days of real time; apparently now the magical dwelling place of the fairie host is moving at a different pace from the rest of the world.
I'm thinking in particular of a segment where a magical sword is receiving a message from an unknown warrior.
I just wish Hamilton had found an editor that could have pointed out the overused phrases and moved the pace along a bit, but that won't keep me from reading the rest of the series.
Well - I am not actually sure why I keep reading these books.
I like the suspense, the plot development, the relationships and the fear (I am a big chicken).I finally decided to read the Meredith Gentry books.
I like to be able to picture a scene, but frankly by the time any action happens I forget why the characters were there to begin with.
Well, lets be honest, there is very little action in this series, hardly any real plot from book to book (unlike each book in the Anita Blake series)I cannot decide if I will finish the series after reading the first four books.
Well, the last one was better.The story continues much the same way. Like the other books, it has some stuff that are annoying, some inconsistencies that are hard to understand, but I still like the world builder and the plot and even some characters. All in all, a pretty nice read.
I still don’t understand a lot of what’s happening. But I liked this one better than the last one.
In other words, a typical day.I both loved this one, and was disappointed in it.
I love the characters, and there are some great (and moving) emotional moments.
I would prefer it if the sexual encounters dealt a bit more with character and emotion and a little less with continually increasing everyone’s magical powers, but there is still a lot of emotion to be had.
And like I said, there are absolutely wonderful character bits.
So I loved reading this book.
You simply get to the end of a chapter, with the characters about to go off and deal with something, and that’s it.
I like it the second time going through it than the first.
Merry is back at the Faery mound and is trying to solve a crime, stay one step ahead of the queen, make then men happy and try to heal as many of the guards as she can.
She mentions in this book a few times about how she can't do everything with so little time so the sithen slows time in the faery mound down.
On top of this, 3 of Merry's guards are accused of raping a woman from the Seelie (sp?) court and she's got to figure out what's going on with that.
A murder mystery in the Slithen mixes the world of magic and faerie with the human forensics.
I love how everything Merry says or does changes the whole of faerie.
You never know what the magic may do.The Bad: The book moves at a quick pace the entire time, except when things get sexy.
Which makes very little sense since Merry is usually in the middle of a time-sensitive perilous situation when the clothes start coming off.
All of this is important to the overall plot of the series, but it would be nice if the pace was balanced throughout.
Dudes! I'm setting myself free. I feel the same pain that I felt during the later Anita Blake books. There's just way too much description, metaphysics, and over indulged sex scenes whilst not moving the plot along quickly enough. Since I'm not familiar with the method of the madness, I'm bidding this series adieu'. I'm only reading one more Laurell K. book and that will be the last one in the Anita series that's due out soon. I mean seriously...I was okay until the idea of goblin sex, or tentacles came into play.FREEDOM.
I know I have some hard time with it and I've grown accustomed.The magic part of it all though...now that's overwhelming in its beauty and power.
The others while lovely, don't exactly meet my standards although they have been there from the beginning and are all so sweet and complex.The Queen is still oh so creepy and oh so evil.
I understand her role in the books but it bothers me so much to have Merry at her beck and call.
Probably the most evil presence I felt in a book.
He's been chained since the 1st or 2nd book but his presence is so noticeable.
Except for at the beginning, this book was non-stop action....and not all sex ~ believe it or not.
I would've liked a few more one on one sessions...especially with the ones Merry is having feelings for.
There is a double murder at the beginning and while Merry and her men are working on that so many other things happen....good and bad.
Merry just never catches a break!
I could not put this book down because I want to find out what's going on.
Another great addition....now on to the next book!
It's good, it has a lot going for it, but LKH has not moved us to the next point of the plot.
In the last book it was 2 days before she was required to go to the Seelie court, and in this book it seems to be only 1 day has past but much has happened.I am annoyed with how the Queen isn't challenged or killed.
I'm sick of the way the queen treats everyone, clearly Merry is brining back fairie but she won't relinquish the throne.
I would like some plot points to be fully tied up at the end of these books.
This is like a very bloody and paranormal soap opera combined with porn. I love it!
No words but amazing loved it
Another wonderful book to this series.. I love how just when you feel like things are normal and you kinda figure it all out. There is anothet huge soin to the story. Keep me hooked... cant wait to start the next book
But the thing is, I can’t figure out why.I am Meredith Gentry, P.I., solving cases in Los Angeles, far from the peril and deception of my real home–because I am also Princess Meredith, heir to the darkest throne faerie has to offer.
My guards and I will show all of faerie that violence and sex are as popular among the sidhe as they are among the lesser fey of our court.
Passions undreamed of await us–and my enemies gather, for the future of both courts of faerie begins to unravel."My Review: Possibly the best of the series in my opinion!
the fantasy woman I'd love to be.The sex scenes are hot enough to border on pornography but so very interesting and creative- I have to wonder where she gets all this stuff and I do picture her getting her freak on - on various surfaces in her house- But then I remember the exasperation of the late Tom Clancy when the Navy kept wanting to know who leaked info to him- after awhile - he was like " come on - give me credit for some imagination" I understand the Navy those of us who are not authors are sometimes amazed at the imagination of writers.
There is one particular scene at the end when you may just have to be near a bathroom while you read it just in case you need to 'urp' while reading it!What was somewhat annoying with this book (one of the things mind you) is the fact that the writing centered less around the main mystery (plot) and delved ever more deeply into the sexual aspects of the Unseelie.Although good things are happening because of the sex, some of it seemed more like filler to me.
This series always places me in somewhat of a quandary...because, well, it's just weird.The main character, Merry Gentry, is competing to become queen of a paranormal court of some really killer faeries and other creatures.
One aspect of the book that is very difficult for me is all the court rules and shenanigans that go on.
If I were Merry, I could have been murdered long ago if only for my lapse in court rules.
With all the shenanigans going on, Merry is bound to be impregnated soon and the drama of that will be quite a read.
Picking up where book 3 left off, Merry and her men find themselves in the middle of a murder investigation when a mortal and a Fey are killed during a press conference within the halls of the Sithen.
More power is revealed and more lovers step into Merry's bed.-Kelly @ Reading the ParanormalMarch 2018 reread - Whenever I get to the end of this book, it bothers me that the issue with the forensic evidence the police collected is never addressed.
Well this is a surprising turn of events, as Andais finally reveals why she can longer claim the throne.
What if the person just happens to be one of the sex guards and not one she loves?
The Princess finds it hard to think of what will happen if she loses her loves: The Darkness, Killing Frost and Galen.
Will the Princess risk it all for the throne or will she stay in the west and keep all the ones she loves?

a jak jsou knihy psány prakticky stejně, tak jsem se s Merry ještě moc nedokázala sžít.
Hamiltonová pokaždé dokazuje, jak dokonale je schopná vykonstruovat svět, který se v dnešní literatuře může zdát tuctový, ale prostě není...
Jenže i tady autorka dokazuje, že má nejspíš trauma z dětství nebo nevím (o tom si popovídáme, až dočtu tu Anitu :D) a je to tedy onewoman show, kde je to všechno jen o Merry a opakovaných popisech.
Tak nebo tak má na mě ale autorka efekt, že jakkoli je její kniha dlouhá a jakkoli často se celé věty, souvětí a odstavde opakují, stejně jsem její díla schopná přečíst během pár hodin.
I say as I did in the review for the book following this.
I would like to take Mistral out of the book and take his sexy butt home with me.
He and Merry have good chemistry and even though he is new to the situation he is HOT.This book was strange.
I thought the murder plot line was poorly constructed.
I get maybe she was trying to keep an element of Merry's PI side but it was just strange and didn't even matter to Merry's overall plot line.
It was a good read though besides that one weird, ill-fitting element.
To quote one of my favorite movies "sex sex sex thats all they think about!" (Monty pythons life of brian).It seems so accurate when speaking about this book and series in general. This whole trying to get merry pregnant storyline is starting to wear thin. Sex with this one to save them.. sex with that one to form an alliance. Sex sex sex.I like erotic books but i just got a bit sick of the sex that i started to skip the sexy scenes...as much as i could anyway.
