https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11628.Johnny_Panic_and_the_Bible_of_Dreams
"Every day from nine to five I sit at my desk facing the door of the office and type up other people’s dreams.
Not just dreams.
Nobody comes to our office unless they have troubles.
Troubles that can’t be pinpointed"My second Plath in a week, but this time have put the poetry to one side, and gone for this collection of short-stories, journal entries, essays, and lesser know prose writings, some of which were published posthumously by Ted Hughes.
Any serious Plath fan would find much to like here, although a few stories are a little bit unusual.
Oh, Sylvia.
Thank you for showing me that talent isn't the same thing as genius, and how some people have to struggle for the former until they fall into the latter.
And how is it that you were just as effective at throwing me headlong into writing now, at 24, as you were at 15 when I had never before tried?
I'm sad to put you down, but this is the last work of yours there is for me to read in the world.
Now, more than ever, I wish you hadn't put your pretty little head in that oven.
Ted Hughes warned in the introduction “This collection does not represent the prose of the poet of Ariel, any more than the poems of the Colossus represent the poetry of the poet of Ariel” and of course he was  right  (after all he did know Sylvia better than you and me)  This collection of short stories is a slap to everyone who considers Sylvia Plath  just  a great poet. Here she proves that she is capable and extremely talented at writing something other than poems. The writing is so unique
Ted Hughes warned in the introduction “This collection does not represent the prose of the poet of Ariel, any more than the poems of the Colossus represent the poetry of the poet of Ariel” and of course he was  right  (after all he did know Sylvia better than you and me)  	This collection of short stories is a slap to everyone who considers Sylvia Plath  just  a great poet.
And really, you don’t have to belong to a club to feel related to other human beings”  	 I wish I had the chance to meet Sylvia Plath and ask her which were her favorite stories.
I think that's an unfortunate name if he were a real person- cured of the panic-light guiding his sleeping life.
I can't help but feel she's talking to herself about the pride and joy of her office that would be in direct opposition to this Johnny Panic if there were such an overlord of collective primordial fears.
I don't want to feel resigned that is how it happened, that she comes to him again, and I need another story now.
I feel guilty for what I've left out.)My favorite story maybe was Stone Boy with Dolphin.
We would do well to remember that Plath launched her career as a storywriter, winning the Mademoiselle creative writing contest in the early 50s with "Sunday at the Mintons." While only a contrarian would argue that these stories equal the poetry, a valid argument can be made that, if we can accept The Bell Jar as a classic coming-of-age novel, then we ought to make a place for Plath in the short-story canon.To that, however, would require a reinvention of this collection (which differs anyway from the 1977 British edition).
Johnny Panic and the Bible of Dreams is a wide collection of Sylvia Plaths short stories and a few of her personal diary entries. My reading experience of it was quite the roller coaster, it has stories I absolutely adored, paragraphs that I read dozens of times and will read in the future, but most of the pieces were simply okay. Brilliantly written, yes, they just didnt make feel much and some went way over my head - I couldnt figure out what was the point of them. The stories started to feel
Johnny Panic and the Bible of Dreams is a wide collection of Sylvia Plath´s short stories and a few of her personal diary entries.
The stories started to feel very similar, Plath clearly has her own style in short story writing, which unfortunately didn´t amaze me apart from the few exceptions.
So rating such a collection is quite hard and I ended up giving Johnny Panic and the Bible of Dreams pretty neutral three stars.
I was never hating what I was reading and as I said, I came across some amazing examples of what astounding things can be achieved with words.
I just love how I feel like I'm tagging along silently next to her as she works in the medical office.
Her words just roll off of the page here, and I can feel all of the hard work she put into making her descriptions perfect.
I also feel immense envy, as I wish I'd written the story myself, so painfully real are her descriptions of her waking life.
I enjoy all of the short stories that feel like they are real anecdotes from her childhood and adolescence, which of course they are.
Plath gets more creative in her short stories than she did in The Bell Jar. She even admitted herself that she did not want that particular novel to be representative of her work; it’s not clever, or even imaginary; it’s just sort of, well, there.
If you want to read someone who has that intense lyrical severity that Plath does, read Sarah Kane’s play 4:48 Psychosis (and by the way, she committed suicide also).
And these short stories bring out a little bit more of that, especially more than, say, "The Bar Jar" had.
However, for me, the really interesting part of this was reading some shorter works and seeing themes and motifs that come up in her poetry and The Bell Jar, such as numerous references to Lazarus.
That was definitely interesting.I felt like the journal excerpts were perhaps redundant given that there's a huge tome of Plath's journals published now.
I did enjoy the few excerpts from when she studied at Cambridge, as well as the Cambridge-based short story, because it's my home and it's so lovely and slightly weird to think of one of my absolute favourite writers walking the same streets that I did.Overall, an interesting collection that I think is important in establishing Plath as a significant writer and not just a poet hugely overshadowed by her suicide.
Participants were asked to read books published only in that year (there had previously been clubs for 1924, 1938, 1947, 1951 and 1968), and a helpful list of eligible titles was provided to make the challenge easier.A day or two later I noticed a photograph on Karen’s blog displaying a pile of books originally published in 1977, among them Johnny Panic and the Bible of Dreams, a short story collection by Sylvia Plath.
Although Sylvia Plath died in 1963 at the age of only 30, Johnny Panic and the Bible of Dreams, a collection of short stories, pieces of journalism and extracts from her journal, was published posthumously by Faber & Faber in 1977.Her estranged husband, the late Ted Hughes, had complete control over her unpublished work.
After Ted Hughes's informative-ominous introduction, the stories are published in descending order, from newest to oldest, all the way back to Plath's freshman year at Smith College.
It's as if you are peeling away the layers of Plath's mind, and approaching the core of what makes her so brilliant.
I am especially fond of the titular story, Johnny Panic.
In all, a dark and variegated collection that will entertain a broad spectrum of readers.
But also read this collection, the dark underbelly of her life's work.
داستان دوم (برف) را كمتر از داستان اول (جانی پنیک) دوست داشتم. سیلویا پلات که خود در طول زندگی ۳۰ سالهاش با افسردگی دست و پنجه نرم میکرد و دست آخر به همین دلیل به زندگی خود پایان داد، چند بار در بخش بیماران روانی بستری شده و دلیل پردازش خوب این داستان، هر چند فضای خیالی انتهایش، به همین سبب است. دوستانی که علاقهمند به سایر آثار منثور سیلویا پلات هستند، از خواندن "حباب شیشه" (The Bell Jar) غفلت نورزند.
داستان دوم (برف) را كمتر از داستان اول (جانی پنیک) دوست داشتم. سیلویا پلات که خود در طول زندگی ۳۰ ساله‌اش با افسردگی دست و پنجه نرم می‌کرد و دست آخر به همین دلیل به زندگی خود پایان داد، چند بار در بخش بیماران روانی بستری شده و دلیل پردازش خوب این داستان، هر چند فضای خیالی انتهایش، به همین سبب است. دوستانی که علاقه‌مند به سایر آثار منثور سیلویا پلات هستند، از خواندن "حباب شیشه" (The Bell Jar) غفلت نورزند.
I just re-read this book. It was my first foray into Sylvia Plath and totally got me hooked. Although her topics are ordinary, it's the way she writes about them. I feel like we learn so much about her through her characters and storylines. I really enjoy her unique way of looking at ordinary things. It was definitely a memorable read.
bazı öyküleri iyi, bazıları kötü. plath'i yakından tanımak istiyorsanız, güncesinde bahsettiği bazı olayları öyküye nasıl dönüştürdüğünü merak ediyorsanız okunabilir.
2,5 stars
As haunting as ever, even if in short installments, Sylvia goes out to reach me in unfathomable ways.
The lack of one star is solely for the fact that this really is a bible of short stories.Below are just a few of my favourites from this collection:The day Mr. Prescott diedA pressure cooker of a story with it's ambiance of death.The daughters of Blossom StreetDeeply movingSnow blitzOh, the beauty of England!Sunday at the Minton'sBrilliantly constructed, you know what's coming a mile away but you can't turn away - just like it should be.Superman and Paula Brown's new snowsuitEmotional, a vivid look into life as a child.Day of successA feel-good story that made me smile smugly in the end.Widow MangdaMoving, epic even.
Sylvia Plath is an amazing writer. Her poems are sometimes too chilling so I take enjoyment in her prose. Just because she writes in prose doesn't mean she is blunted. Her short stories are fierce, tense, and tautly wrapped up with memorable characters and unpredictable plots. My favorite would have to be the Johnny Panic story, of course, it was an ending that I could not ever forget. Even many years later, I still sometimes think to myself the last lines of that story and let myself savor the brilliance that is Sylvia Plath's writing.
در سال جدید به نظرم باید برای کتاب ها نقد نوشت. نظر یه رویکرد جدید یه توضیح کوتاه راجع به کتاب میدم. کتاب به شدت به علاقمندان به روانکاوی به خصوص بخش مرتبط با خواب توصیه میشه. جانی پنیک شخصیت خداگونه ایه که کنترل سرزمین رویاها رو به دست داره و در حالت افراطی تبدیل به قدیسه یا به عبارتی منجی برای نویسنده میشه. داستان دوم به نام برف بسیار مینیمال در عین حال چالش برانگیز و جذابه. کتاب بیشتر از ۱ ساعت وقت از شما نخواهد گرفت اما لذت مطالعه اون تا روزها با شما خواهد ماند.
I'm obsessed.
Short. Intense. Moody.
I'm not a writer with a clear, developed sense about the purpose of a short story or what makes one "good." But I have read a lot.
The story about sorority hazing was strong, if neatly tied by the end (*I* like short stories that are tied up neatly at the end, but if I am to understand what makes one "good" based on the many short stories I have read that are supposed to be "good," this is actually a weakness in a Ted Hughes world).
Each of these stories are incredibly powerful in their own way and Sylvia Plath continues to amaze me with her writing, her mindset and just everything.
Las primeras historias no son precisamente mis favoritas, pero ya casi hacia la mitad y final del libro hay relatos atrapantes.
Did anyone say "Shutter Island?" Det här är en novell man bör läsa flera gånger för att verkligen förstå hela innebörden av historien. Blir mer begriplig andra läsningen!
So you start off with stories that are wonderful: the title story is a horror in which you don’t know if the protagonist is mad, dreaming or trapped in a real-life nightmare, followed by a proto-feminist tale of a woman stuck at home slowly losing her imagination, the ability to dream, read or even exist; a Flannery O’Connor-esque narrative of a girl going to a funeral (or rather a watchover) with her conservative mother, a humorous non-fiction piece on snow and England's failure to cope with it, made more poignant by the fact that it was written in 1963, during the cold winter that added to Path's depression before her suicide.Plath could have been a masterful short story writer, but she chose poetry and the novel, and the short story world is a little more bereft because of it.
I wanted to disregard the introduction by Ted Hughes, to mistrust his evaluation of his late wife's prose writing, his estimation that short story writing was her greatest professional challenge, and that she was dismayed at her own attempts.
At odds with herself, she is determined to write objectively yet ends up writing mostly thinly-veiled autobiographic stories.
Some of her short stories are in fact quite weak, and the ones with optimistic endings feel forced and false.
It is her autobiographical pieces that are the strongest, with running themes of the fear of creative paralysis, persecution by childhood peers, and the loss of her father.
Johnny Panic and the Bible of Dreams is a collective of poetry and short stories written in the journals of Sylvia Plath.
The girl, written of the perspective of Plath, works in a mental hospital alongside the bookkeeper.
She refers to any form of mental illness as "Johnny Panic" and personifies him throughout the story.
She calls her book "the Bible of Dreams", hence the complete title.
One night, she decides to sleep in the ward so that she can just record all of the patients dreams in her Bible, rather than having to sneak around to get it to her house.
This collection of her proses, short stories and a few pieces from Cambridge notes which were sad but also enthralling, written in time and some published here and there while others not, starts with a Ted Hughes introduction.
Some people have criticised her for being selfish and narcissistic but that isn’t her at all, I get the sense reading her “notes” part that maybe she is possibly overwhelmed by life.I did not find The Bell Jar as amusing as this collection, but Plath gets more creative in her short stories than she did in The Bell Jar. Nevertheless, I would recommend Sylvia Plath to anyone for there is something quite haunting in the way she writes and there is a real sense of realism but also perhaps idealism of how things ought to be but aren’t.
Det är en kort novell som bara tar 40 minuter att lyssna på, men det är mycket givande minuter.Berättarjaget i Sylvia Plaths novell Johnny Panic och drömbibeln arbetar som sekreterare på ett sjukhus.
Hon ägnar dagarna åt att renskriva patienternas drömmar, men för i hemlighet in dem i sin drömbibel varje kväll, på uppdrag av den store drömskaparen Johnny Panic.
Inte någon drömstoppare, drömtydare, inte någon som exploaterar drömmar i enfaldiga hälso- och lyckosyften, utan en obe sudlad drömsamlare för drömmarnas egen skull.
En drömälskare för Johnny Panics skull, allas deras skapare.
