https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/167845.The_Peace_War
Honestly, even though this is definitely SF with all its discussion of high-tech versus slightly lower-tech population, it actually reads like an OLD STYLE fantasy, complete with old wizard and an underprivileged apprentice siding with the underdog portion of society, the "Tinkers", against the Peace Authority, who holds the high tech "bobbles".
Unfortunately, I felt like I had to slog through half the novel before we got to the revolution overthrowing the Peace Authority.
That would be very unfortunate, though, and I will therefore back-off and let this novel stand on its own.It isn't fantastic, but it is worth reading for the ideas, if not for the somewhat mediocre story.
That might have been an interesting read.Third, and most infuriating, the blackmail story between Della Lu and Mike Rosas, pretty much the plot of middle of the book, was complete bullshit.
It was painful to read, and Mike's explanation of why he was complicit (cause his dad knew who created the plagues he betrays his friends???) just didn't make any sort of sense.There's some interesting stuff with the bobbles and time travel (the scene at Mission Pass was smooth), though their allegory to nuclear weapons is pretty brittle.
Vinge crafts a compelling, tyrannical "post-war" society based in California where self-appointed peace keepers use absolute power to repress development and use of weapons technology.
Written during the cold war, the novel explores the logical conclusion of US imperial designs - a benign empire that uses power only for the good of humanity (e.g., spread of democracy, development of pre-capitlist economies, etc.).
The U.S. is actually a victim in the novel, with the self-appointed Peace Authority arising from the ranks of scientists and technocrats working for Livermore labs (in the Bay Area), only to use the ultimate weapon ("the bobble") on its own government, along with other war-making states around the globe.
Easy, linear, plotted formula, this milSF thriller type tale of generic style actually kept my attention better than most easy, linear, formula SF novels. I must have been in the right mood for it.
Maybe 2 stars is too harsh for a Hugo Nominated Classic of Science-Fiction, but I'm getting sick of books of good ideas by authors that can't write a character to save their Hugo Nominated lives.
Coming at the end of this miserable string of books, 'The Peace War' gets the brunt of my horribly terrible wrath.
I've read both 'A Fire Upon the Deep' and 'A Deepness in the Sky'; maybe he couldn't write believable characters in these books as well and I just didn't notice.
I personally like tales like this, where events and circumstances are alien and unfamiliar, with clues indicating that the world is different from the one you know.
It reminds me of (view spoiler)[Philip Jose Farmer's To Your Scattered Bodies Go and/or John Scalzi's Old Man's War, both of which were (hide spoiler)]books that had superb starting ideas - contexts, backgrounds, or technologies that were original and wondrous - but which settled into fairly generic action-adventure tales thereafter.
I especially liked, however, some of the ideas and commentary on the trajectory of and conditions for science and technology.
This is the first Vinge book I've read.
He is reputed as being a talented writer and am looking forward to exploring his work.
There is no doubt that Vinge is a talented writer.
But for the length of the novel, there just too little.I will consider that this is a relatively early work and I have collected more of his work (including the sequel "Marooned in Realtime", perhaps it will redeem it) and I am looking forward to experiencing these writing skills applied to better scenarios such as his Hugo winning "A Fire Upon the Deep" and his collection of short stories.
Deja ver ideas geniales y una vez que te haces con los personajes y con la visión en conjunto de la historia se disfruta mucho.Quizá la pega que se le pueda poner es que por momentos se hace espeso.
Disfruté mucho más con "Al final del arcoiris", quizá porque estaba más cargado de ideas especulativas que este, no obstante me ha mantenido enganchado y lo mejor de todo: en tensión.Por cierto ¿qué narices tiene que ver la portada de NOVA con el libro?
While not Vinge's most impressive novel (I'll give ‘A Fire Upon the Deep' that designation), The Peace War is a very competent, effective post-apocalyptic/science fiction novel.Some years ago, at the outbreak of international war, someone invented the ‘bobble' – spherical containment fields which could eliminate threats by creating an unbreakable barrier around a weapon, or battalion...The war was terribly destructive anyway, and now a level of reduced technology is enforced by mob-style governments.
However, a technological underground resistance exists – including the brilliant scientist who invented this field.
I liked this even better than the Zones of Thought series. Strange, mind blowing post-apocalyptic world, great characters and a fascinating exploration of what it means to control time and technology.
This is the second novel I've read from Vernor Vinge (after the much superior Fire Upon the Deep), and like in that previous book, the story really takes a while to get going.
I also have to admit that at many points during the novel I did not fully understand what was going on, as the techno talk became really thick and things moved very fast, maybe this could be blamed on me being tired while reading, but the fact remains it went over my head.
Only towards the end do things start to make more sense, and the novel ends on a satisfying note (which makes me interested in reading the sequel).
About five years ago, I picked up John Scalzi's Old Man's War, and that got me interested in the genre again.
I picked up The Peace War knowing it wasn't going to be a story on the same scale as the "Zones of Thought" books, but it felt flat and limited all the same.
The heroes of the book are "Tinkers," people who have managed to work within the limitations of these prohibitions to build advanced technology that rivals or exceeds that of the Authority.This book isn't as sophisticated as Vinge's Zones of Thought books, which is disappointing.
A quick read, this novel reveals the setting slowly, and I won't spoil that here.
Technology is used in too-convenient ways - farmers have television and play old shows (on a local network?) in the evening together, but later in the book the authoritarians use this same method to broadcast propaganda.This story finishes with "End Book I", and it is followed by a short story and another novel.
Both this book and the short story stand alone fine; the two novels were collected in one book later on.
I recently read the fantastic A Deepness in the Sky and the very good A Fire upon the Deep, both science fiction novels of breathtaking vision and imagination, and maybe that's to blame for The Peace War leaving me so underwhelmed.
I was most definitely not sufficiently whelmed.That isn't to say that The Peace War is a bad story or uninteresting in its ideas.
The Peace has banned high-energy technology or restricted it to its own exclusive use, so things like cars and jets or even diesel tractors are right out.
On the other hand, computer technology has continued its downward slide towards zero power consumption, nano-scale, and networked ubiquity.
Paul should have been the most interesting, rounded, studied character in the story (considering he was integral to the bobble technology), but the reader is left with scant few details of his life, which surely must have been pretty amazing.Wili, who is likely considered the main character, was equally short-shifted.
The secondary characters received even less attention to development than Paul and Wili, so they were thin at best.I felt Vinge's writing in "The Peace War" to be haphazard, never clearly expressing actions and never building appropriate momentum.
Si se crea una en medio del aire, tiende a ascender por la noche, porque el aire de fuera se vuelve más frío que el aire de dentro (la energía térmica no atraviesa la bobble).
Es verdad que lo son, pero es que ni Vinge es Marcel Proust ni esta es una novela psicológica.
Por ejemplo, cuando describe un paisaje, no me lo imagino bien.-Como en las novelas más famosas de Vinge, los personajes "buenos" cuentan con una serie de recursos tecnológicos cuasi-mágicos que les dan ventaja.
In this case, a rogue outfit of scientists discover a way to make war impossible, and arise like Praetorians and assume world control.
This understandably angers a lot of people, and while most don't care, it's a lot of the former scientists who are out of a job, advanced energy and pharmacological research is banned, and they become tough enemies to keep.
He goes from being a criminal on one page, plotting and planning and stealing knives from the table to slit the throats of his enemies on one page, to being a considerate mathematician after about 2 pages of experience.
An enjoyable yarn, and a cool concept.
The plot's Cold War origin is apparent -- which is instructional for readers who enjoy the "future of the past" -- but several glaring plot holes tarnish the professionalism of this veteran writer's delivery.
For instance, the Tinkers gain insight into relativistic effects of the interiors of the bobbles, a secret not known to the Peace Authority; yet in the climactic battle, both sides use this knowledge in their strategizing.
I find reading books written during the cold war written about the future so interesting. I find how these authors perceive what war would be like in the future and what peace might be like. Sometimes, in the case of this book - Peace is a concept of War. I must give credit back to Chronos from www.ultimatetimetravel.com for his review of this book from 2009... Read it here and then get the book - http://bit.ly/orbMaK
Good hard SF novelThe best reason I would say this is a worth read, is that it is a requisite for reading the sequel, which is a lot better. Generally, the technological ideas here are far superior to the plot-line build and character development, even though the plot does keep you on your toes. it is an interesting and fun read, recommended.
Finished faster than I expected, lots of action and some interesting science, can't wait to see where some of the ideas lead as the series continues. Don't want to say much because virtually everything about this book is a spoiler.Recommendation from a new doc at work who is a hard science geek.
An earlier book by Vernor Vinge. The characters are not very convincing, but I liked the idea of the so called "bobbles". Nice exploration of the social impact of such an invention.
Reading this on Kindle - Not sure what the file is but it's got some technical issues with corrupted characters in the font and a very odd page layout.
There was a lot of fear/distrust/hate going on in the book: the Government distrusted any level of technology they could not control and the Tinkers while fearing/hating the founder of technoBobble; Paul hated and feared the Government; the Tinkers hated and feared bioscientists and distrusted the Government; Wili feared the Government and his past catching up with him; Della Lu hated anybody who opposed the Government and its enforced Peace; and Mike hated/feared the bioscientists and distrusted the Government.
The 'character' of the bobbles probably changed the most in the book; I liked how they came to be used 'strategically' by the story's end.I also enjoyed Wili's character development.
(hide spoiler)] I think the relationship between these two characters was the best part of the book.Mike's conflict of interest seemed kind of forced.
I read this book in order to understand better its sequel "Marooned in Real Time." Truth is, it doesn't reveal much.
This book introduces the politics that continue in the second book and introduces the technology of "bobbling." In this book (not really a spoiler) the technology is very primitive, by the second book it is crazy advanced and most of the development of bobbles is left out of the story.
You just have to accept them as fact and go with 'em.With both books I felt the politics bogged down the story.
They are always a bit different, and very imaginative.
But he manages to draw me in and make the stories seem real, even when they are about dog-like people who can only exist as groups forming a single entity.This one, the first of a series of 2 or 3 (evidently, the 2nd is not really an important part of the series) was a bit more conventional, but still very interesting.
It's a post-apocalyptical story of a world that is politically very different from ours.
The Peace War (Across Realtime, #1) by Vernor Vinge Originally published in 2003, this novel is still a great example of hard SciFi. The characters are multi dimensional, and well textured.
And yes, the drive the plot, and drive it well.
Plus we have the BDO (Big Dumb Object) to contend with.
Our heroes are an unlikely band of survivors, that come from various pasts.
Part of his continuing anger results from how the Peace Authority misuses the aforementioned BDO in rising to power.The storyline is well conceived, and well written.
Die Welt in ca. 50 Jahren, nachdem eine Gruppe Wissenschaftler eine Art undurchdringliches Energiefeld erschaffen hat und dieses benutzt, um die Regierungen auszuschalten und die Welt weitgehend in einem vorindustriellen Zustand zu halten, mit sich selbst als "Wahrer des Friedens". Gewisse Technologien sind nicht mehr erlaubt, andere schon. Dies führt zu einem interessanten Zwitterzustand zwischene moderner und altmodischer Welt.Ein paar Leute lehnen sich gegen die Peace Authority auf und wollen die Welt wieder "frei" machen.Insgesamt gut geschrieben und mit ein paar interessanten Ideen, aber ich hatte doch irgendwie mehr erwartet.

This is my first Vernor Vinge novel and I can't say I'm impressed. Hard to believe this was a finalist for the Hugo. The big ideas (force field bubbles called bobbles that stop time) are fascinating, but the characters are not. And the idea of Lawrence Livermore Labs taking over the world is absolutely ludicrous! This was a chore to finish so I don't think I will be reading the follow-up books in this series.
