https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92003.The_Atlas_of_Middle_Earth
If you are gonna visualize an epic quest, then it's always a good idea to see a lay of the land. I wanted to understand where they were going exactly and see it with my eyes and see the scale of miles, and how the other lands were surfaced compared to it. I love imagining , but I love having the atlas ready to look at so I can get back to reading. It keeps the image fresh in my head. Nice maps.
A detailed and fascinating array of both general and specific maps are presented and featured, helping readers not only visualise but also navigate the many paths taken by elves, dwarves, men, hobbits and others during the three ages of Middle Earth.
And most importantly (at least for me), Karen Wynn Fonstad's The Atlas of Middle Earth also demonstrates how Middle Earth as a whole, as a world has changed in shape, size and features since the First Age (The Elder Days).
خوندن سیلماریلیون و فرزندان هورین و قصه های ناتمام و به طور کلی مطالعه ی آثار تالکین بدون این اطلس، مثل تماشای فوتبال بدون تخمه است!امکان پذیره ولی لذت بخش نیست:)
I consider this book to be an indispensable companion, along with the maps and chronology at the beginning of David Day's Tolkien: The Illustrated Encyclopedia, to any reading of The Silmarillion. It's also a very enjoyable companion to The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings. Fonstad's scholarship is meticulous, and the book, for those who are reading or have read any of these three main works, also makes a superb stand-alone read--something unusual for an encyclopedic reference. Highly, highly recommended!
An excellent reference for any Lord of the Rings fan. You could pour over this for hours ... and hours.
It is helpful to have multiple maps with explanatory material there to help the reader to visualize the geography and routes of all of the major works of J.R.R. Tolkien.
There is a difference between the loose imaginings of that information that one gets from pleasure reading and the well-developed understanding gotten from looking at the maps and reading the essays.She also includes material on the changing of the shape of the world as described in the "Silmarillion" and of the battles fought in that great book.
I think people who have read The Silmarillion, but maybe only once or twice, and found it hard to follow, would do well to read this atlas.
The summaries are good reviews, and the maps help visualize the many stories.
If you are a visual learner, I think this atlas can really help you make sense of all the names, places, battles, etc.
I'm pretty much the biggest Tolkien geek I know in real life, and I learned a lot from this book.If there was one thing lacking, I wish there could be more colors in the maps, because sometimes it was hard to differentiate patterned areas.
You might be interested in Fonstad's ambitious Atlas of Middle-Earth.She writes: "Like Bilbo, I have always loved maps (and she has a degree in cartography)...(when) I finally read The Lord of the Rings and The Hobbitt...I developed an explorer's need to map and classify..." In doing so she tackles the great and the small - everything from the shape of the world to the tiniest reference.
This is a painstaking collection of maps that track every reference in every Tolkien story beyond the above mentioned.First and foremost, it is a historical atlas tracing the history of all the key races over time.
Only for the super geeky! All the multitude of maps are helpful while following the stories (includes maps for The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings and The Silmarillion) if one is so inclined to have to always know where the action is taking place. I have enjoyed it.
Review to come
Ends with the War of Wrath, Middle-Earth reconfigured, northern realm of Morgoth destroyed, Morgoth cast away into the Void.Second Age: Númenor time (foundation, rise and fall).
Ends with the War of the Ring.Fourth Age: begins the defeat of Sauron and the departure of the Elves from Middle-Earth.
(hide spoiler)]The depictions of Valinor and its relation to Middle-Earth were awe-inspiring, especially in relation to the myths and events narrated in the Silmarillion.The main regional maps of the Third Age are big and nice to look at: Shire, Misty Mountains, Mordor and others are all portrayed in detail.
Had I actually owned this book and used it as actually intended, as a refence as I read through Tolkien's works, it probably would have gotten a higher rating from me, but, as I got it from the library and had a due date, I was unable to do this and still have time to finish it, so I was forced just to read it cover to cover, which is not what I believe was intended for this work.
It's a must-have I think now to any Tolkien fan, owing to the beautiful collection of maps it contains.
It's also pretty darn good at summarizing all the stories from The Silmarillion and the First Age. As a geologist by profession I also enjoyed the technical, although never over-technical, geographical explanations and theory.
I learned some good new things about the Middle-earth world also, which I'd probably skipped over or forgot, mainly that Gondolin is built in a caldera: an old, collapsed volcanic crater.One thing I thought there would be more of was pictures/illustrations like there is on the front cover of Edoras, but it isn't, it is all 2D maps - but this was my mistake not reading the description properly.
I totally loved this fun book.
It had detailed maps of everything, inside and out, from Isengard to the Mines of Moria to Mordor.
And those are just locations!
Also maps showing where "The Hobbit" is in relation to "Lord of the Rings." Maps of Mirkwood, and other large things.
Maps showing where each army went/was in multiple battles.
Maps by vegetation, and language, and people.
And lots of words too, describing what happened at each location.
This is a MUST (emphasis on MUST) for any Lord of the Rings fan.
January 2012 --- I love it.
I. LOVE.
I. LOVE.
Well, there's nothing BAD to say about this book, and the maps themselves look great, but there's something less wonderful about it then I might have hoped.
Maybe it's the fact that most of the maps are either ones known already or pretty obvious ones, like, a map of Beorn's house.
It marks down the individual chairs!
It looks cool, but it's not terribly interesting.
The best maps were those of Arda.
They left David Day's illustration from A Tolkien Bestiary in the dust.
But, for the most part, this book was only good.
A must have for die-hard Tolkien fans, though!
Highly informative.I spent a lot of time, however, poring over a couple of maps before I realized they were screwed up.Whoops, I just revealed how much of a dork I am. I might as well admit I visited Oxford, England, with my wife and visited the Eagle and Child pub and Tolkien's grave. I didn't cry, though.
This was nice to have while reading through The Fellowship of the Ring, following along with the maps of where they all were as they traveled. Also, the dates and timelines etc. are interesting to read. Very well done!
It's not perfect, but it's probably the best attempt I've seen at trying to bring it all together. Of course, the primary appeal is the maps, but the chronology is also helpful.
This is just the best work that anyone could have done to complete and illustrate (Sorry, Howe and Lee) the Lord of the Rings world
Seeing the maps firsthand and up close somewhat compromises the imaginings of Tolkien's works. It is a fun addition to my collection nonetheless.
Ever wonder what all the cool the places and things in the fantasy world of Middle Earth looked like. Excellent reference book. Very recommended
You can find online maps of the Third Age (the time period of the Lord of the Rings) but there are some significant geographical changes to the earth that takes place and it can be difficult to fully visualize it.
You can find bits and pieces of maps online, but this Atlas has all of them!Also as a side note, this atlas is all encompassing of Tolkien's work.
It includes the Hobbit, Lord of the Rings, and the Silmarillion.
This is an excellent reference book for fans of J.
Tolkien who want to delve deeper into the world he created in The Silmarillion, Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit.
I also found that some of the different area designations on the map were hard to distinguish from one another, though this is probably due to a restriction set by the publisher than by Wynn Fonstad's choice.
I love having this with me when I'm re-reading  The Lord of the Rings . Fonstad has done incredible research into the geography of Middle Earth. Then again, I am fascinated with maps of all kinds, so I suppose I might be a little biased. (Wait. Me? Biased? And stating my overly biased opinions? Never.) Just ask Julietta.
A interesting side piece to the Lord of the Rings. If you love Lord of the Rings, then this book is perfect for you. It contains all the details that are never mentioned in the book that you might be wondering about. It is a fairly dull read and not very well written though. If you have never read Lord of the Rings, or watched the movie, don't read this book. It contains quite a bit of arcane knowledge from the canon before you can read it.
This was not an exciting read in itself, but I found it really interesting. It was a great companion to the Silmarillion, which is kind of lacking in maps. As well as maps showing geographical features and cities, this also has battle plans, route maps for major journeys, and more detailed plans of cities and houses. Very interesting.
The Atlas of Middle-Earth is vital for anyone reading Tolkien's works, especially beyond The Hobbit or The Lord of the Rings. Full of detailed maps and charted journeys, Atlas is both a practical and precious treasure.
Fascinating companion resource to the Lord of the Rings, the Hobbit, and the Silmarillion. The maps and information in this atlas add a lot of visual clarity to J.R.R. Tolkien's rich descriptions of Middle-Earth.
By itself, this book is a little dry, but it would serve as a great accompaniment to any Tolkien novel.
Un libro che qualsiasi appassionato di Tolkien dovrebbe avere.
