https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50877.The_Number_of_the_Beast
Heinlein’s earlier works, generally classified as his “juveniles” published from 1947 until the late 50s, may be confused and disappointed by his 1980 novel Number of the Beast.
Also, those familiar with and inspired by his middle period, roughly late 1950s until 1970, spanning the publications of The Door Into Summer in 1957 until I Will Fear No Evil in 1970 (the period that I regard as his zenith) may likely be nonplussed by what is going on in this work published when the grandmaster was 73 years old.
Dick, Heinlein’s The Number of the Beast may only be for true fans.
The first one I tried was The Number of the Beast, written in 1980 after a seven-year hiatus brought on by ill health when Heinlein was in his seventies.This story starts when professor Zebadiah John Carter meets Deety (short for Dejah Thoris) Burroughs and her father, mathematician Jacob Burroughs, at a party hosted by a socialite named Hilda Corners.
There are lots of SFF in-jokes and Heinlein self-referentially brings in some of his characters from his previous books (he’s assuming you’ve read them) and even he and his wife are mentioned.The audio production of The Number of the Beast was excellent.
There is so much pointless conversation: Blah, blah, blah, look how smart I am, blah, blah, blah, look how sexually sophisticated I am, blah, blah, blah.In the end, one learns more about Heinlein’s quirks and prejudices that about the aliens.
At this point, the book becomes just a masturbatory exercise and loses any pretense of moving the plot forward.Heinlein seems to have been in love with his character Lazarus Long—I think he poured an awful lot of himself (and I mean awful as in icky) into that particular character, who of course appears again in Number.
I’m sure that Heinlein thought he was being very feminist, portraying female characters with intelligence and sexual agency.
There's this terrible thing that happens to some science-fiction writers near the end of their careers: they want their oeuvre to make sense, with all the books related to each other in some complex structural way.
If you were lucky, you were good SF hacks, and be proud of that.
I was unfortunately foolish enough to read this embarrassing piece of nonsense from Heinlein, where he creates some kind of transdimensional gizmo that means all his characters can meet up with each other and characters from other books, and, as often as not, end up having sex.
To enjoy such novels, a reader must exert a certain amount of personal energy, digging deep enough into his own dark and forbidding, monster-inhabited labyrinthine corporate-mangled mind to re-discover and then desperately grab onto and tenaciously against all odds and at all costs cling to the long-interred imaginative capacity of childhood; to discard all filters of expectation about what a novel should be and simply go with what this one is.
This book is to science fiction literature as Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is to cinema: a big, fat, sloppy, self-indulgent love letter to everything its creator holds dear.
The first time I read it I hated it, but a few years later I got into an argument about it with someone at a party and decided to give it another try just so I could feel good about being right.
yeah, it's kind of great.
The more of the references you get, the better it is, so just re-read it every few years until you like it.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Non-Sexist Rip-Roaring SF: "The Number of the Beast" by Robert A.
Heinlein(Original Review, 1980-08-31)Robert Heinlein's agent had hoped to get $1 million for his latest novel, "The Number of the Beast." What he had to settle for was half that, and not from his accustomed publisher nor from any of the houses with heavy SF publishing programs.
Its payoff depends heavily on your being able to recognize not only the bylines, but also the principal characters and personalities of a fair number of other science fiction writers.
He has his characters discuss his own books during a conversation about sci-fi, and later he even inserts himself and his wife (though they aren't actually present in the scene; they're only mentioned as being nearby).The "big" idea here that Heinlein is trying to put forward is that writing fiction creates a real universe, as real as our own.
The main characters have a device that lets them travel to other universes, and they find themselves interacting with characters from Stranger In A Strange Land, Time Enough For Love, and several other Heinlein stories.
(Male nudity figures into Heinlein's work as well, though to a lesser extent and in much less detail.) An alternity's edition which retained the images but featured text written by a fully-aware Heinlein might have turned out to be one of his best books, rather than one of his worst.The neatest thing about the book we have is that, if the Number of the Beast really meant what Heinlein contended at such great length that it might...
Arguably one of Heinlein's finest and controversial.Before forming an opinion on this novel, one must first be familiar with 'golden age' scifi pulps; particularly Edgar Rice Burroughs' Barsoom Mars stories, E.E. doc Smith's Lensmen stories, the fiction of Asimov, Clarke, Poul Anderson, and the likes of Larry Niven, Pournell and Bova as well.
Only then will you appreciate the scope and wit of this novel.Alright, careful while carrying that tall stack of hardcovers, paperbacks, and please, be ultra careful with those Astounding, Fantasy and Science Fiction and Galaxy magazines, they are rather frail these days.
Much a homage to the pulps of the 'golden age'.
I read this book a long time ago, but it stayed with me...
I'll wait....So, having read them, you might want to ask me "Come on Mike, is this book really that bad?" I'm glad you asked, because it is.
This book is bad in the way that only a master like Heinlein could achieve.
But before you run off to get a copy and see for yourself, let me warn you one more time.It will stay with you.
I would imagine that, were I in the airborne equivalent of a Ford Focus with three of the people closest to me in this world (my brother having been murdered roundabout the same night I was nearly murdered, myself), I would be less concerned with things like maintaining command structure decorum.
Carter assembles the “that’s the last we’ll see of him” plot elimination machine; as the curtain closes, Heinlein pats himself on the back and goes for another in a series of long bubble baths.To say that my experience with this book was dissatisfying would be to describe chemotherapy as mildly unpleasant.
WARNING: Do not read this book until you have read Heinlein’s Time Enough For Love, Revolt in 2100, Methuselah’s Children, Stranger in a Strange Land, Glory Road, Podkayne of Mars,and The Rolling Stones.
Fans of Science Fiction from the 1940’s to 1980’s will be most capapble of enjoying the work in its entirety.During the last years of his life, it seems Heinlein had a desire to gather the characters he and others had written over the years to attend a conference.
If you are a Heinlein fan, this book (and its sequels) is/are the ultimate payoff.
When I was in elementary school, I went through some boxes my uncle stored in our garage (I was a nosy kid), mostly stuff from his grad school years.
I've taped the cover back on a few times.In elementary school, I could not get beyond the first 3 pages.
Over the next few years, I would try every once in while to read this book and again could not get beyond the first few pages.I think I was finally able to read it all the way through during high school.
It was the first Robert Heinlein book I ever read.
Heinlein, whatever his faults, was a storyteller - and a gripping one.But his faults are largely on display in this book.When I was a young teen, my brother and I used to torture each other by reading particularly ripe and painful passages out loud to each other.
The "old man Heinlein" voice is particularly noticable - it's a bit jarring and weird for everyone to banter and quip like someone from Kansas City in the 1930s.
Nonetheless, I'll likely end up reading the book again in another year or three.
It went from science fiction to philosophical discussions, to raids in other novels (view spoiler)[yes, because even the worlds of the novels are parallel dimensions, and so we get to Oz, on Barsoom, and so on and then create a bridge with the cycle of the Future History (hide spoiler)], in considerations of nudism, incest and polygamy, to move to what I would call the main adventure, in the third part, but at that point I had almost raised the white flag and just wanted to get to the end.
Heinlein gets such a bad rap these days, and I feel like I want to defend him and say that a lot of his stories are really not that bad and sometimes even really cool.
"By his Bootstraps" is a terrific short story.
Friday and Job were good books.
Everythin'gs so smug and pontificating and self-congratulatory.
The dialogues go on and on with their self-important posturing and weird internal gender politics and bad puns and "inside jokes" that you might get if you were Rob's drinking buddy, or maybe had read all his books.
I can't imagine anybody who wasn't Heinlein-obsessed really enjoying this.
I was looking forward to reading this and it started off quite pleasantly, I was enjoying the story, such as it was, but then it got dull, quickly, that is about a third of the way in, and its a 500+ page book.Basically a scientist invents a dimension jumping machine cum time machine, based around an old Ford car, and he comes up with a theory of the number of universes based on the number 6 raised to the power of 6, 6 times - 6 6 6.
(drop this on your toe and you'll be hopping round the room!)"Oh John I SO love you, youre such a remarkable man, my hero, Daddy will be happy to have you as a son" If thats not bad enough the young lady is known as DT, which I discover is short for Deja Thoris.
You can't go home again. I read this book a million times when it was new. When I was newish. And, oh, how I loved it. I thought the dialogue scintillating, the ideas deliciously outré, the sex delightfully transgressive, the politics brilliant. I tried to wrap my head around who I was then to think those things about this tired, clichéd, and worst of all- boring- story of some breasts and the brilliant women attached to them. I'm sorry I tried, I'd much rather have had the warm fuzzy memories.
After exhaustive research, I have determined that all Heinlein books are mostly about: time and/or space travel, utopian familial structures, casual nudity, physics, incest, human nature, and what is intended to be witty banter. That sounds interesting, and it was the first 2 or 3 times. At this point though, I feel like I'm reading the same book over and over. Which is why I made it maybe 50 pages into this and called it quits.
But the mission is dispensed with in a few paragraphs, and it becomes evident that Lazararus and his gang have only shown up so the creepy sex-obsessions can be kicked up a few notches, and Long's sprawling, multi-novel arc can plod forward.Because what "The Number of the Beast" is, essentially, is a 300 page introduction to four new characters in the Heinlein-verse, and a 200 page prologue explaining how in the hell Lazarus Long can show up in "The Cat Who Walks Through Walls" which Heinlein would write five years later.So why would I give such a mess of a book four stars?Well, as chaotic and sloppy as the whole affair is, it also happens to be fun.
The later "world as myth" novels of Heinlein are generally my least favorite.
This book suffers from this syndrome to a greater extent than any other with Heinlein finally surrendering to the urge to collect the characters of all of his stories, the characters from Heinlein's personal favorite stories that he didn't write and even "two Heinleins" from parallel universes and get them together for a party.
That part is fun, even if not really wrapped up.The other part is, well, I love all those characters he gets together for the final part of the novel.
My best friend (at the time) gave me this book in tenth grade and said, "Here, read this." It was the first Heinlein novel I read; I had never heard of the author before.
It was a great story and I was hooked from the first words, although I remember being a bit confused toward the end when some of Heinlein's characters from other books appeared.
Since two of the main characters were named for characters in the Edgar Rice Burroughs Mars novels, reading this book led me to investigate those as well.
I recently unpacked the very book my friend gave me over twenty years ago and I'm looking forward to reading it again.
One of the few books I have actually given up on. This book is one tedious argument about who the fuck is gonna drive the spaceship. Ugh. FAIL.
This was old hat in 1980, and feels positively antediluvian 30 years later.I'd reflect that it's a classic old school male liberal response to the 1960's in many respects - gets sexual liberation, actually likes women; struggles massively with the feminist challenge to traditional gender roles and phallocentricity.Oh, Bob Heinlein, no!But Beast's problems with sex and gender go way beyond the usual Spinal Tap confusion of sexy and sexist.
Heinlein es uno de los grandes. Sin discusión. Pero hasta los mejores tienen malos momentos. No me gusta "El número de la Bestia", por muy paródico y autoreferencial que sea. El último tercio lo he leído por orgullo pero me ha costado no saltarme páginas enteras.
I seem to have been reading a lot of strange books lately.
This is the worst book I have ever read.On the surface, it's just trashy disposable science fiction.
I don't think it was intended to be read by other sentient beings besides the author; it is more a "memo to myself" filled with fantasies both vapid and lurid, that somehow got printed in a sad publishing accident.
It reminds me of Mark Twain's "The Mysterious Stranger".
But in Twain's case, the conveyed sense of utter hopelesness is the intended effect.I wish I forgot about this book, but then I would run the risk of reading it again.
By the time I finished this book I had a major headache. The POV changed *constantly* with no indication it was switching or who it was switching to. The sex was supposed to be sensual, but it was just juvenile sex, not even soft-core porn, which I find silly.The annoying parts I stated above actually masked any true plot from being good.One of the few books I've read that weren't for an assignment for school that I hated so much. Shortly after I moved to Woden H.S. Tori recommended and even loaned me this book, probably fall/early sinter 1988.
-Lo más pulp, a mi modo de ver, que ofreció el autor en toda su carrera.-Género. Ciencia-Ficción.Lo que nos cuenta. Zebadiah J. Carter acaba en brazos de una joven y fascinante muchacha conocida como Deety cuando esta le confunde con su primo, cuya especialidad universitaria es del interés del padre de Deety, totalmente sumergido en una investigación practica del viaje entre universos y tiempos.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
