https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46777.Tithe
If curiosity killed the cat, it was satisfaction that brought it back.
This is one of those rare few books that really shows me why we need a 3 1/2 star rating, and I don’t like to give 1/2 stars.
This… was so fun, and a four star book for me, and also it bugged the shit out of me to the point where I texted someone to bitch about it.
But… I honestly had so much fun.
So let’s just go with I loved it and let it be.Let’s get the complaining out of the way:  god, I fucking hate 2004 YA.
I don’t mean that she’s flawed – though she is – I mean, I actively didn’t like her at all, and I love unlikable lady leads.
I really hate reading YA sometimes because inevitably, if there’s some male love interest that everyone fangirls over, the female lead will be unquestionably the best character in the narrative.
This would be great for fans of any of Holly Black’s current books or anyone who just wants to read a really fun, trashy YA book with a gorgeous fairy world and a really good love interest.
Personally, I absolutely love gritty real-life/fantasy stories when they're written well, and I think Holly Black does the combination so much freaking justice.
And honestly, when I compare female leads in other books, I always think about Kaye and if they live up to her standards (which is not often enough for me).So many people cut down Tithe for its "objectionable" content, but I was actually able to find a lot of realism in the way most of the characters behaved.
The way she describes things, you feel like you're reading poetry -- I love the detail she pours into Tithe.
While not suitable for younger readers (lots of swearing, random torture and violence, and mature themes), I loved its take on the darker side of faerie.
It deals with faerie themes like Changelings and the knowing of one's True Name very well, and Roiben is probably my favorite faery hero of all time.
(Kind of like Sephiroth.
If you know who Sephiroth is, you'll understand.) The writing was a teensy bit sporadic and hard to follow at first.
I found myself going back and re-reading passages to understand them.
All-in-all, though, a great story for older, more mature audiences.
It's the story of Kaye, a changeling, who was put under a glamour to hide her true green-skinned self and lives with her rockstar wannabe "mother", Ellen.
Ellen was on the phone, trying to find a place for them to crash."Honey," Ellen said finally, "we're going to have to go to Grandma's."So a bit of background info, that's the scene where Lloyd, the dude Kaye's mum is dating, the dude they live with -- tried to kill Kaye's mum.
Apparently they're happy with "We're going to have to go to grandma's." and the next scene, they're living with Nana and Kaye's off to some rave like some whacko never tried to gut her mama.
And mother knows best, right?
Holly Black’s writing was my first introduction to fae fiction; as a kid, I was obsessed with all sorts of fae mythology, but typically was limited to nonfiction until the first time I saw Tithe on the “new” shelf at my library. I must have checked this book out and reread it four or five times within the first couple of years, but this was my first reread since I was a preteen, and I had no idea what to expect! If curiosity killed the cat, it was satisfaction that brought it back. I had forgott
If you’re a newer fan of Holly’s and haven’t read her old work, here’s your warning: this book involves racist remarks, homophobic slurs, attempted sexual assault, and some potentially sleazy romance dynamics, most of this going entirely unchallenged as the story unfolds.
I have always said that I think Holly is almost singlehandedly responsible for the world of fae YA fiction that so many of us now know and love, and after reading Tithe, despite its imperfections, I adamantly stand by that belief.
I'm just proud I managed to skim and not give up entirely; that's an achievement on its own.Let me sum this book up for you: Imagine a story filled with only unlikeable/trashy characters (there wasn’t a single person or thing I liked—I swear, everything was terrible), a nonexistent/poor plot, cliche male jerks that are accepted because they’re (of course) “extremely attractive," etc., and all of that tied in with choppy/childish writing.
I’m still shocked the two books are written by the same person; but I guess that’s proof that writing is a craft that can be improved over time.
I was a cringey kid, but to be real... I'm still a cringey adult! So, I really need to reread this and give it a proper review. But in the meantime, I talk about how much this book changed my life in my review for The Cruel Prince!Blog | Twitter | Tumblr | Instagram | Youtube | Twitch
Kaye is obviously incredibly lovely and then it turns out she's a magical fairy.
Sure her life is hard, but it's the fairies making it that way because she's so important that they're all out to get her.
Look, what I'm saying is, it's like the author tried to think of all the coolest latest trends among teenagers and tried to mash them into a fairy story.
Kaye is also not anyone's typical teenager.
Obviously there are plenty of creeptastic faeries and death everywhere and blood splatters and YEAH IT WAS QUITE GOOD AND I LIKED IT.
Like "Oh there is the palace of the evil faerie queen!
Omg. So while, obviously, the book wouldn't have been interesting if Kaye hadn't been curious -- she still got other people into plenty of trouble because she was brash.
But I'm still reading the next two books ASAP because I love Holly Black and I LOVE creepy faeries and I so want to see where the story is going.
To publish this as a young adult novel is horrifying.
I wouldn't read past 30 pages it was too offensive and to think it was published as content for young adults is terrible.
Not only was the f word used liberally throughout the few pages I read, teens were drinking, smoking and hinting at being sexually active.
NOT something I would want my kids to read, or myself.
I normally wouldn't dream of rating a book without reading more of it, but I was so appalled by what I read I couldn't go any further in the story.
Reto #29 PopSugar 2018: Un libro acerca de o ambientado en Halloween La verdad tenía altas expectativas con este libro, las que sólo se vieron cumplidas en el último tercio, en que la acción y el argumento van in crescendo hasta un final que, para mí, fue absolutamente satisfactorio. En retrospectiva, lo que se narra en las dos primeras partes era necesario para el desenlace, pero el estilo no atrapa, incluso es un poco aburrido. Afortunadamente la lectura es simple y rápida, por lo que tampoco
En retrospectiva, lo que se narra en las dos primeras partes era necesario para el desenlace, pero el estilo no atrapa, incluso es un poco aburrido.
Eso sí, con descripciones bastante más chocantes, lo que es un poco contradictorio con las medias tintas con que se aborda la relación de los dos personajes principales.
Es decir, el libro es suficientemente adulto como para presentar torturas bastante sangrientas, pero lo suficientemente juvenil para que la pareja no se dé más que un casto beso.
So I didn't LOVE Cruel Prince (I liked it, though!), but I did love Darkest Part of the Forest. So let's see what else Holly Black has for me!
"Tithe: A Modern Faerie Tale" is about sixteen year old Kaye Fierch, a girl who has been moving around with her single mother for her entire life.
In fact, almost all of the side characters were underdeveloped, I felt like I didn't know a single thing about any of them.
Also, there was a scene where Corny is in the underground faerie hill with this strange prince character, and then Corny is tortured.
In fact, the only thing in the book that acknowledges that the event occurred is when Corny starts blindly stabbing his tormentor to death.
Tithe is a mix of wonderful and horrible aspects: the characters are difficult to like or identify with, and the writing style is inconsistent and immature, but the plot is realistically complex (even though it ends abruptly) and the faeries are dark, enthralling, and vividly conceived (if overdrawn).
I found this book at times both frustrating and wonderful, and though it has many faults, I still recommend it for its plot and atmosphere, as well as its great potential.At the beginning of reading Tithe, the weaknesses far outweigh the strengths.
She began the book and then brought it to me saying that she didn't feel it was appropriate for kids and that she, personally, had no interest in a heroine who consistently made such poor life choices.
This book was recommended for kids 14 and up and Gini has read books that were definitely adult reading level and she LOVES faery.
It was really cool to talk to Gini about why she didn't like this character and how the character developed without requiring her to read something she objected to and without glorifying the type of kid portrayed in the book.
I'm mad at myself for not reading this book a long time ago!
It was so good and reminded me of when I was in high school before cell phones and social media consumed our entire lives!I liked Kaye!
I felt she was relatable.
Yes, she may be a high school drop out, drink, curse and smoke, but not every teen in the world is a perfect angel.
Loved, loved, loved him!!!This world that Holly Black has created is amazing!
I love her writing and her descriptions and that everything isn't perfect but can be!
Can't wait to read the next one!
I read this book in one day!!!! It is that good! A bit dark, fun and full of magic. And the love story is a huge plus!!!! If you enjoy Faerie and everything related to it, you will love this book. A can't wait to read Valiant!!!!
He slid out of bed, scratching his balls through once-white briefs, and sat down in front of the computer.Ok, now I remember WHY I hated Holly Black's writing before finally enjoying White Cat. Too much grossness!
Everything is in Tithe is disgusting and grimy (except for the love interest, thank goodness for that!) - if it's nail polish - it's chipped, if it's bed linen - it's dirty, if it's hair - it's greasy.
Apparently I am more used to the gross now, because this time I liked Tithe.
If not for the insta-love, I would have liked it more.
3.25 stars Half the fun's in lies we tell ourselves. My favorite thing about faerie books is always their eerie atmosphere. I don't mind gory horror, but what I truly love is that creepy feeling I get with mysterious and intriguing books like this one. And while Tithe did not leave me in awe, it was still very well-written, and it kept me hooked from beginning to end. Holly Black is one of my favorite fantasy authors. She wrote The Curse Workers trilogy, my favorite urban fantasy series of all t
She wrote The Curse Workers trilogy, my favorite urban fantasy series of all time, but I also knew she had written this book twelve years ago, and I've always thought that most (not all) authors are a bit like wine: they get better as time passes.
So I was not expecting anything nearly as good as The Curse Workers, but this book still managed to surprise me.It surely had a lot of clichés of the genre - some insta-love, a quirky sidekick like Corny (even though his storyline quickly took an unexpected darker turn) and mostly forgettable secondary characters.However, not only the writing was very good (there were a couple of metaphors that really took my breath away), but this book was dark.
this book was no exception, and for a debut novel (WRITTEN IN 2002!!!) no less.book follows a girl named kaye who has always thought the world had a little magic.
and i think that's why this was a little bit bumpy.almost half of the book is spent in the real world while kaye is dealing with her shitty mom, and some random side characters.
i know it's meant to slowly introduce magic back into kaye's world but it sort of bored me.
and i'm still going to read the other 2 books.
Series Review Tithe: 3 starsValiant: 2 stars (barely)Ironside: 3 1/2 starsI am a huge fan of Holly Black, specifically her writing style. Both The Darkest Part of the Forest and The Coldest Girl in Coldtown were five star books for me, and this is coming from someone who typically gets bored by fantasy after a chapter or two.There’s something about Holly Black’s writing style that is so lovely and dark and perfectly fitting for the stories she tells.With the release of The Cruel Prince, which i
Both The Darkest Part of the Forest and The Coldest Girl in Coldtown were five star books for me, and this is coming from someone who typically gets bored by fantasy after a chapter or two.There’s something about Holly Black’s writing style that is so lovely and dark and perfectly fitting for the stories she tells.With the release of The Cruel Prince, which is getting a ridiculous amount of hype right now, I decided I wanted to read Black’s original fae trilogy, more out of curiosity than anything else.As someone used to reading more polished works from this author, going back to her debut was a bit underwhelming, though it makes sense.
Several "best friend" character die, the two mothers are left bereft of their children, a small child is abandoned to the faeries, and the nearby world is beset by death and destruction, but it doesn't affect the main, teen-aged protagonist and we only follow her pursuit of a dangerous older man who doesn't want to use her naivety no matter how much she tries to make him.
She does a passable job of wising up, if not growing up, and the action-y scenes are quite fun as her wanna-be beau fights off orders to kill her, she tries to rescue her almost-friend from a dangerous lover, and both the supposedly good and definitely bad faeries line up to use her for their political ends even if it means killing her.
I started out very unsure about it, since it was recommended to me by a The Iron Fey fan, I was expecting something else.
I was hesitant to start liking him, but eventually I couldn't resist him anymore!
But I don't know if anything will ever beat The Iron Fey in my mind.Being only my second faerie series, it was interesting to see the similarities and differences from The Iron Fey. I was not previously familiar with ideas of faerie glamour, and the courts, and I didnt know how much was unique to The Iron Fey. So that was interesting and I now have a better grasp of it.
Hidden Gem buddy re/read with the YA & Beyond crew!I find it highly intriguing how John Milton & Paradise Lost show up in this book right when I'm starting Traitor Angels.
Just a thought.It went fast, but I'm glad I decided to reread this.
I liked how the world of Faery wasn't necessarily the happy, pretty world we all assume a world of sprites and pixies to be like -- there was darkness and danger and even the characters Kaye thought she knew turned out to be the opposite.
The last time I read this was in high school and he was sexy then too; I'm glad this book held up over the years.
i couldn't finish this book and i WON'T finish it. it is horribly stupid and swears like 10 times a page. it is all about cigarettes, drinking, and freakky people in dark alleys. WHAT THE HECK?! i couldn't believe what was happening in the book; it was disgusting!! ew! ew! i learned a lesson from this book: DON'T JUDGE A BOOK BY ITS COVER!
That’s because Kaye’s friends were part of the world of Faery.Kaye is dragged farther into this dangerous world when she saves a dying faerie named Roiben.
After this encounter, she meets up with her old friend Lutie and Spike only to find out that her other friend Gristle has been murdered by the faerie she saved earlier, Roiben.
Both Kaye and Aislinn are strong-minded characters, but it is the setting and the rest of the faerie world that makes the stories so different; Kaye’s is one filled with drinking and shoplifting.
I mean, I pretty much just picked up this book because it helped fit a category in a reading challenge, cool title, I like butterflies, and a new author all wrapped in one?
I liked the characters and thought Kaye was pretty interesting.
Then there's the adventure which was pretty interesting and definitely didn't leave me bored.
But when a review or a person say this book is going to be dark I expect a blackout kind of dark.
I liked it but I kind of just wanted more darkness.I will definitely look for the next book though!
I used to be ridiculously anti-social at family parties and hide out with this book. TITHE was so formative for me as a writer. Unapologetic and gorgeous. TITHE tore off the wings of fairytales and gave them fangs, claws and thorns. I wanted to be Kaye so badly I'd sometimes wander around in my backyard looking for a wounded elf prince. Sadly, no paranormal paramour for me. Although I did date a boy with werewolf sideburns. (I still am, but his sideburns have lost their lycanthropic enthusiasm).
Please don’t judge me for being a middle aged woman loving this book! I couldn’t help wishing that this kind of book had been available when I was actually within YA range, but on the other hand my inner teen is enchanted anyway! I will definitely be reading Ironside which completes this story. Apparently the middle book of the trilogy, Valiant, doesn’t really connect to either Tithe or Ironside. Recommended for faerie tale lovers!
Bad execution of a good idea, 1.5 stars, December 9, 2009 Tithe: A Modern Faerie Tale, the first book in Holly Black's faery trilogy, introduces readers to a dark and twisted world of Faerie.
Unfortunately, this world of Faerie is not very likeable or easy to read.
First and foremost, I found the book difficult to read due to the writing style and lack of editing.
Secondly, Black's world of Faerie is dark, twisted, and cruel.
Even if a character is flawed, I want to read a book where I want to root for him/her, despite these flaws or a sordid past.
