https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76668.For_Love_of_Evil
That is: How can a person commit a sin if the commission of that sin is part of God's plan and an expression of His will?There is a tendency to overcritizie on the appearant disconnection of God from His creation, but again, that is forgivable in the context in which theologic questions are raised.
At the time I read this book, I was a lot less forgiving of these points and less capable (wise) of understanding that the point was not to bash Christianity, but to cause the reader to analyze their own veiws.
This is my favorite book of the entire series.
It is actually dangerous because it actually makes a lot of sense and will most likely make the reader see Satan in a different light.
Personally, I like this angle very much.
In other words, a good man doing a necessary function to maintain the balance.[return][return]In For Love of Evil, the human who becomes the incarnation of evil, Satan, is troubled by the nature of good versus evil and decides to end it all in a death duel with God.
I might be a minority here. I bought this book without prior knowledge of other Incarnations of Immortality series. After reading the reviews and other info, I understand more.This book is not suitable to be read as a first book. I didn't understand the plot of the book until the end of the story. Thanks to other reviews, I finally get the general idea.
However, Parry countered the spell Lucifer threw at him and with his dying breath he claimed the Office of Evil taking the name Satan.After reading the first five books in this series, much of the middle part of this story is recapped from the other books, but from Parry’s POV.
The setup is now complete for the final book in the series and I can’t wait to get to it!Now, a few words on the story itself.
I love, love, love this series and I most especially love Parry/Satan.
The concept is so cool, and the way he writes it so painful and juvenile...but this one really was the greatest one in the series. I mean, it's about replacing the devil, how could it not be? So I give it extra points.
I've read this book a few times over the years, and I'll state the same thing at the beginning of reviewing all the I of I books: this is a re-read, and the first time reviewing the books.
I'm reviewing all of the books after I finished re-reading the entire series, which I don't normally do & didn't do deliberately this time, either...(this book was actually read over the summer, 2016, but I'm counting it as a 2017 book because that's why I'm finally getting around to writing the review)So, I still have to say, this is one of my favorite Piers Anthony books, ever, of all time - and that's saying something.
Alternate histories need to be blatantly alternate, but a lot of this just felt like he was reading Dan Brown for fact-checking.Also, for all his wit and grace with language, this volume has the unfortunate tendency to lapse into telling at the moments of critical importance.
There were just a lot of solid build-ups and completely anticlimactic letdowns in the adventures of Parry/Satan (which, by the by, felt rather long about 2/3 of the way through).I return to this series after about three or so years hiatus, I think, so I'd forgotten a lot of what had happened in the first five volumes.
Xanth started a new "magical trilogy" following the first nine books with a new storyline; Apprentice Adept followed up the original trilogy with a new story following the next generation of characters; and Incarnations took its story beyond the original five Incarnations and published two more novels, looking at the two major Incarnations in the story: Evil and Good.In many ways, For Love of Evil, which as its name implies follows the Incarnation of Evil, or Satan, reads like a first book in a series.
The Incarnations of Immortality series shows us a world were magic and technology have developed together and deities like Death, Time, Fates, War, Mother Earth, Evil, Good, and Night are supernatural "offices" held by humans for a length of time.
On one of his many trips to foil Lucifer's plans, Parry breaks his vow of celibacy with the ghost of his wife possessing the body of a young village girl.
Using the toehold of Parry breaking his vow, Lucifer sends Lilith a demoness to corrupt Parry, which works and turns the inquisition into a force of evil.
I was excited to pick up this book, to finally learn of how Satan--Incarnation of Evil--told his story (especially considering how Green Mother ended!).
Here is the tale of a man who had the love of his life taken from him by a powerful sorcerer working for the devil.
It was, until Lucifer sends a demoness to corrupt him...and he falls for it (for reasons best left to the book).
Well, he tries to still do as much good as he can while doing evil the demoness demands of him, and it shortly turns out that when he is slated to die, he accidentally kills Lucifer instead.
After the death of his wife, he turns to monkhood, where he learns that the perverse acts done in the name of God are actually the works of Lucifer.The reader learns of why Satan has such a vendetta against all of the other Incarnations, even when the people in the positions change (those in power when he began humiliated him and still turned from him).I enjoyed reading more of the chaos between Good and Evil, leading to other deities not of the Christian religion.
Piers Anthony said there was going to be 5 books in the series.
Since Mr. Anthony has never limited himself to what he originally planned (his Xanth trilogy has 30+ books and is still going), he decided to add 2 more books to his pentology(a 5 book series).
Satan was the opponent to all the other Incarnations in their tales, but this time he gets to take over as the main character.
Really interesting to turn the "bad guy" into the "good guy".I also noticed there was an 8th book added to the series a few years after these two additions.
The first time I read this, my friend lent me his copy. The cover was torn, the pages were stained and falling out, and the book was nearly impossible to read. Even so, this book entranced me and pulled me deeper and deeper into Perry's transition from pure good to "conventional" evil. This is my absolute favorite of the Incarnations of Immortality, and now my once-new copy would probably evaporate in a half-strong breeze.
Just the fact that Piers Anthony is able to make a fairly convincing argument for an incarnation of evil is pretty amazing. It is a difficult topic, but he does it surprisingly well. My major complaint is that the story line seems a bit awkward at times, which he seems to try to cover by blaming it on the fact that men are slaves to sex. Hmmm, not convinced. Having said that, there is a fair bit of sex in this one, so it probably is not a great choice for younger fantasy readers.
Strangely, this was the best book in the series. It did cover new events, but mostly it was a retelling of the first five books; this would seem like a disastrous idea, but it was really a stroke of genius. For Love of Evil> is told from the Devil's point of view, and Anthony did an amazing job. Of course, to really enjoy this book, you'll have to read the rest of the series.
Maybe my adult mind would think otherwise, but this anti-hero's journey was pretty badass to my teenage mind.
I sure read a lot of crap fantasy in high school.
Piers Anthony continued his series with two more books detailing the most important offices: Good and Evil.
For Love of Evil is one of the best books in Piers Anthony’s Incarnations of Immortality series, if not the best.
The story of how Parry gets into the office of Satan is quite an intriguing one.Like every other Incarnation, the story starts off of Parry’s mortality.
Lilith’s corruption is very sexual, but for good reason of course.The story of Parry’s journey from a mortal priest to becoming the Incarnation of Evil is a truly unique one full of drama and despair.
I also thought this novel handled the Western-centric, Christian-centric-ness of the world a bit better than the earlier ones, mostly by virtue of giving us a little more information about what had been going on the entire time.
I also liked the characters of Jolie and Lilah, both of whom were fleshed out in various ways (although they also both had large sections of the novel where they were either absent or present and flattened).
I don't know that I strictly "agree"--since human beings can (even in this fictional world) affect the total good and evil by altering their lives (when it seems like the Void is much more mixed at its heart), but I found it to be a highly interesting framework.
Lucifer came to take him directly to hell, but didn't realize Jolie was there too, empowering Parry to reflect Lucifer's own attack back at him, killing him and making Parry the new Incarnation of evil, to be named...
Then he got to hook up with his new love, Orb/Nature, and his old love, Ghost Jolie.So, in covering the Incarnation of Evil, Piers Anthony revealed that there was a secret backstory to all the fights with Satan in the first series.
Into Satan's mind14 January 2012 This is the sixth book of the series and the main character of this book is the incarnation of evil, or Satan. The book follows the same lines as the previous books in the series in that the first part of the book deals with the mortal life of the main character before he becomes the incarnation, and it also looks at the events of the other books from the eyes of this particular incarnation. However Satan, being the antagonist of all the other books, obviously ha
Into Satan's mind14 January 2012	This is the sixth book of the series and the main character of this book is the incarnation of evil, or Satan.
However Satan, being the antagonist of all the other books, obviously has a significant role in the series.
In the other books Satan is always the antagonist, however as we come to this book we are taken into his mind and into his heart and begin to see that he is not really all that bad.
Purists will hate Anthony's hashing of Christian, Jewish, Muslim, Greco-Roman, and other religions, myths, etc., which becomes far more pronounced in this one than the previous five.
While in On a Pale Horse, Anthony leaves a person's afterlife up to him/her, here the Christian view overrides all others, to include distinguishing between the Christian "Father" and the Jewish YHWH as separate entities.
I will be interested if he manages a more sympathetic view in #7 (much like he did for Satan in this work)...Overall, I recommend it as light reading, but recommend reading the others first.
This is yet another series I decided to revisit as it appears the author has added another installment to the Incarnations of Immortality.
The story was interesting and fun to read.
Also, I find a bond with the author in wanting to bring order to chaos.
We work so very hard to bring order around us knowing that if we ever stop exerting energy, then the world will tend to chaos.
Anyway, the book was certainly fun to read and only occasionally promoted headaches when discussing the Incarnation of Time.
This book is my favorite book of the series!
Book 6 describes how Perry becomes Satan, the Incarnation of Evil.
This books ties a number of loose ends, including why Niobe, the Magician, Luna, and Orb are so important to the entire chronicle.
You actually like Perry, and though he is Satan, he actually trying to do some good.
To hate a character for 5 books, (not to mention coming into the series with heavy preconceived notions), only to end up liking and rooting for the character is nothing short of amazing!

I definitely felt bad for Parry, the man that would become Satan.
His point if view from the stories of the other incarnations was so sad and so pathetic.
I was actually glad when Parry created the black plague to mess with the incarnations after demeaning and humiliating him.
But in the end, like most good stories, everything came together in the end.
The other incarnations realized how much better he was than the other Evils before and after him and came to the rescue.
I am happy that he is respected, even if not liked by the others, and given back the love of his life that started his whole decent to hell.
Mr. Anthony always did a great job with the preceding Incarnations as the philosophical questions, suggestions, and revelations of Death, Time, Fate, War, and Nature.
A few books were better than others, but ALL of the books were at least 4 stars, and were all excellent reads.I was blown away by this sixth volume of Incarnations of Immortality and the development of Satan's character.
It's a fantstic read, exploring good and evil and tackling some hard questions.
You just might get a few new views or ideas on things you believe in, these books are that good.
This is probably my favorite book in the series for the topics it tackles, the humanization of the office of "evil", and its necessary place in the scheme of things.
I was curious and hopeful that Anthony would handle this one well -- after all, Death and War are no small subjects to humanize and make sense of, yet by the end of books 1 and 4, both achieved a certain place of understanding in the worldview that made you go "You know, it really could be this way..." I felt some of the same with this book, even though I do not subscribe to the mythology of Heaven and Hell.
Easily, my 2nd favorite book of this series - with the first book, On A Pale Horse, being my absolute favorite!You spend so much of this series, especially the first five books, absolutely hating Satan, and with good reason...or so it seems.
However, Piers Anthony tells each of these stories from the perspective of the Entity in question and Evil is no exception -You come to love Perry, which is why the book is so aptly named.
You sympathize and feel for the excruciatingly difficult position he's in.
It is brilliantly written and goes to show that, everything is a matter of perspective!
I know that Anthony provides a back story for all the characters but I did feel that this went on a little longer than necessary.
In some respects I can see why this one goes in to so much detail, but I will admit to skimming a little.I think Anthony brings up some interesting idea's regarding good and evil, and incarnations and how they come to be.
This book flows much better than some of the previous ones.
I was also eager to find out what happened to Satan after book five.
My theory was completely wrong, but I wasn't disappointed.
