https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/265205.Life_Application_Study_Bible
I learned that God loves us very much that he sent Jesus as our Savior and that he wants all (everybody) to go to heaven for eternity.God has been taking care of his people ever since they have been on this earth.
he protects us and gets us through problems through prayer.It makes God very sad to see when people don't worship him and don't obey his commandments including love one another.
I own several bibles and bible study books but every time I decided to read the entire bìble I would eventually just go back to daily devotionals or re-read my favorite books.
The explanatory notes, short history lessons and character profiles are just a few things included in this bible that not only helps with understanding how the scriptures can be applied to our world today but It helped me stay connected through the parts I found dìffícult or boríng and I was able to systematically complete the entire book, after trying many times in the past 20 years.
Not enough to lessen its total value but enough to note.
BEST book in the history of man
The explanations are clear, simple and easy to understand (though sometimes simply redundant in explaining verbatim what you are about to read, which loses half a star for me).
The explanation of the historical accounts between the old and new testaments really help to increase one's understanding of the AD/BC split and what exactly was happening in society during the early days.
It also gave me a deeper appreciation for the truth that binds the stories.
I was specifically appreciative of the intricacy of the psalms and David's adventures, the categorization of Levitical laws and the integration of the epistles into the Acts account.
How could you give this book anything LESS than 5 stars?
Have you ever read a book so jammed full with stories, characters, plot twists etc.?
I think of this book as one of my desert island books.
If I had to pick only 5 books to read for the rest of my life stuck on a desert island, this would definitely be one of them.
It can get tedious, don't get me wrong, the slow parts are definitely a little painful to trudge though.
Anyway, now I know why they call it the 'good book'.
It's worth a read!
It was inspired by God- 2 Timothy 3:16 and it gives us personal instruction on Godly living, righteousness, even correction.
Every word of God is flawless- Proverbs 30:5God is our refuge our shield, our strong tower in times of trouble.
We are not to be anxious but in everything glorifying God the Father through the work of Jesus Christ on the cross.
Draw close to God and he will draw close to you!- James 4:8Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God!- Romans 10:17
My rating of 4 stars is, of course, for the NIV Life Application notes which appear at the bottom of each page, not for the text of the Bible itself which will always get the full 5!
The notes range from being academic or historic commentary to applications for contemporary life, at times stretching the point a little to make it fit into a modern application.
There were several places where I disagreed, even disagreed strongly, with the life application notes but for the most part they were insightful and useful.
My first study bible, when I was new in my faith this study bible really assisted me in learning more about applying my faith to everyday life.
Once again, I read various editions of the Book in search of meaning for me...It may not be somebody's way but it's mine and I rarely invoke the creator but I believe my faith is guiding me in this..
As there are a number of study features that are included throughout the Bible, which helps to make the Scriptures more available for all rather keeping many of the books a mystery except for scholars.Why a Life Application Bible?
If you are attempting to read the Bible by yourself and have no access to a Priest or Pastor to advise you on how to take the Word and apply it your life there are close to 10,000 study tools to help and advice.
This is a Bible where the Scriptures are easy to read, explained in plain English and how to apply them to your life.
Out of all the books in the world, this is the one I hope that everyone will take time to read.
If we are as diligent in reading this as we are in all the other books of the world, our understanding, personal peace, & spiritual life will change not to mention our relationship with Jesus Christ.
John 3:16 & 17 For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son that whosoever believes in Him shall not perish but have everlasting life.
It is unlikely that I will ever truly "read" this, but will instead refer to it from time to time and read passages both greater and lesser in size as the mood strikes me.
I do enjoy having a bible for reference, and this was a gift to me when I graduated high school.
I am intrigued by the difference in format from the King James bible (and mildly amused that the Catholic church was not listed in the Preface among the denominations of those distinguished scholars who worked on this translation).Any suggestions with where I should begin reading first?
I have heard that Genisis is not always the best beginning.
I was given this version for Christmas 2009 by my Mother-in-Law, Barbara Parson, two months before she died. (I am departing from my normal practice of only listing books as "read" which I've read all the way through, because despite reading from this book regularly, I use another volume for my regular reading and study.) The large text was a concession to my age, and my need for a Bible I could read comfortably in public. A very good read.
Finally finished it! It only took 6 years. :)
I also will not expound on my religious beliefs since they are immaterial to this commentary.I will only comment on this particular version of this book.
Other books had footnotes that were less interrepretive but instead more "preachy" with a feeling of instilling guilt as a motivator.
so much so that during the "preachy" footnote books I almost dreaded reading them.
I will note here that I read this with more of an educational view instead of a religious view, so perhaps those reading with a different motivation will find the opposite and wish the informative footnotes were more guilt ridden...
I love the reading plan that I have....I read a section from the Old Testament, the New Testament, Psalms, and Proverbs each day.
Brian Hardin, from DAB, does the year through the Bible every year (since I think 2005) and the podcast of each day is available from itunes.
And the podcast for each day, and each year, is new for that day / year.
Yes, he reads live every single day of every year.
Anyway, after getting a little side-tracked, I love my NIV Life Application Study Bible.
My sister-in-law gave me this Bible in 2001 and I love it.
Still reading and studying. It will take me a while to get all the way through. I love the side-bar profiles, the individual scriptural commentaries, the historical information and everything else about this. I also love that you can purchase a Life Application Study Bible in various translations such as King James, New King James and New Living. There may be more available, but these are the others, besides New International, that I remember.
I have many different versions of the Bible but this is by far my favorite and I always go to it for my answers. Wonderful sidelights, bios and explanations pepper the bottom of each page yet never overpower the Words of the Bible above it. Great lead-ins start each book of the Bible so you feel you know what you are about to read...filled with nuggets of wisdom to keep you from getting confused or lost in the text.
Everyone who is Christian or has been influenced it and has any sort of interest in Christianity should read the Bible. It's such an influential part of our world and I think that reading and understanding it independently can shed a lot of light on different things. It's an incredibly interesting text and though it does take a lot of time, it's definitely worth it.
I learned many things from reading the old and new testaments. The most important revelation was that the god in this book must have had a multiple personality disorder. In my world, gods must be flawless therefore I do not believe in the god of the Holy Bible.
A nice addition to Bible Study texts. Sometimes it clarifies the message.
I went to two Jewish Seders this past holiday and reading through Genesis and Exodus, with context added by the footnotes, really put the holiday, both Passover & Easter, in great perspective.
Going to need to read this one over a few more times
The word of God can only have a five star rating.
Found the background notes very enlightening and the maps useful.
I have several Bibles on my Kindle, and this one has to be my favorite when using my Kindle Fire - primarily because of the ease of navigation, the footnotes / endnotes that have an easy hyperlink where you can jump to as well as quickly jump back to where you were, as well as the historical references in the introduction to each book of the Bible.
The Table of Contents is hands down the best one for the Kindle I have used.As I mentioned above, I prefer this one for use with my Kindle Fire due to the ease of navigation.
JOSHUA currently.Often reading/listening on my You Version (Life.Church) phone app on the go, but this paper version is my preferred favorite way if I can snuggle up on the couch for some Bible time. Whatever I'm reading whether a verse or a book makes so much more sense and applies to my world today with the applications, and for that I am grateful for any extra gleaned wisdom.
I haven't finished using this guide on android but it is the best study bible guide I've enjoyed using by far. Simple and practical, but also contain deep truths on how to apply God's word into our lives into context. It's just that, because it's not Catholic, the books are lacking.
Reading through the whole Bible again. Great helps, ie... information about time, history, author and cross reference of scripture as well as word meanings then as opposed to now.
I love this Bible!!!!! The life allocation of always spot on.
