https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/940412.The_Americanization_of_Edward_Bok
Every American should read this book.
Anyone seeking to become an American should read this book.
Every family should read this book aloud for family reading time.Every homeschooling family should read this book aloud and also use it as a unit study.Every high school student should read this book.Every business major in college should read this book.Every politician should read this book.Every journalist should read this book.Every writer or aspiring writer should read this book.I wish I possessed the eloquence to adequately review this book with the respect and awe I have of Edward Bok's stories and words.
With that said, I can't encourage you enough to READ THIS BOOK.
I LOVE this book. I am reading it to Hannah and it is a great autobiography ( written in third person though). He was a brilliant, hard-working man who worked hard and is in inspiration to us. I encourage you to read it. It makes me smile.
Turns out he was pretty famous and successful in his own time and his "Americanization" is a total "rags to riches" tale popular in the 19th century.
First off, he changes the penmanship being taught in his school because it has too many flourishes and "wastes time".
Eventually, he grows up and he has made all these connections through his autographs and he finally becomes Editor of the Ladies Home Journal Magazine.
I'm sure it's the somewhat pompous tone of the times that causes this because I really did enjoy this book and honestly, Edward Bok really does deserve credit for having done all kinds of these things and more.
What a surprise to discover this gem! I usually read fiction, but this title showed up in a list of Pulitzer Price winners and I couldn't resist. This is one of those books that we need to read and re-read as America ages (we're getting old and grumpy about immigrants) and its citizens are no longer hungry for freedom. Our ancestors mostly came to America generations abo, and now we don't understand the new immigrants coming to our shores. We are starting to not act in the American spirit. I recommend this title.
What an incredibly intelligent gentleman far beyond his years. This is one man we all could learn from. Very very interesting. Held my attention from page 1.
Such was the pressure from his readers that in furniture stores across America, ugly furniture was replaced by good looking furniture and "within five years, the physical appearance of domestic furniture in the stores completely changed." He then moved on to artwork, helping the American Hausfrau replace whatever ugly abominations hung on her walls with reproductions by artists (actually illustrators, but who's counting) such as Howard Pyle and Charles Dana Gibson.Somewhere along the way, Rudyard Kipling (Bok's friend) suggested that Bok name his Merion, Pennsylvania home "Swastika." Although Bok doesn't say so, it looks like Kipling's suggestion was adopted:http://www.brynmawr.edu/iconog/uphp/s...Bok became "vitally interested in the growth of women's clubs as a power for good", but by reading the yearbooks and papers put out by many clubs, he discovered they only discussed important topics on the most superficial level.
I visited the Bok Tower Gardens in Florida and picked up the autobiography of Mr. Bok, an 1870 immigrant from the Netherlands.
From meeting U.S. presidents and other historic figures as a young man to his rise to editor of the Ladies Home Journal, he accomplished that dream.
However, I was a bit disappointed; I wanted to read about the establishment of the Bok Tower Gardens - but the book was written previous to that event.
Nevertheless, an interesting viewpoint from a man always willing to put in the extra effort!
A Dutch immigrant with little education who came to inﬂuence a generation through the most prosaic of vehicles, a women’s magazine, Bok’s is a classic story of migrant success. .In a nutshell..Work for your own success, but ensure that your achievements lift up the wider community.
This an excellent book and I recommend it for every American. Edward Bok was an intelligent man and contributed much to America. My only disappointment was that he did not write about his wife, his children, and his religious beliefs. It was very interesting in that he knew many famous authors of his day. Mr Bok did appreciate his life in America.
In 1920, the former editor of the Ladies' Home Journal, Edward Bok, published his fascinating memoir, an exceptionally well-written book through which he candidly yet eloquently recounted the step-by-step process of his 'Americanization' from penurious immigrant Dutch boy to affluent pioneering American editor and philanthropist; hence, it is not a surprise that the work secured for its author both the coveted 1921 Pulitzer Prize for Biography/Autobiography as well as the Gold Medal of the Academy of Political and Social Sciences.
Mr. Bok's story is an impressive one, and even after one makes allowances for his evident pride, his innovations and accomplishments at the LHJ were many and significant.
It's clear that he relished his opportunity to elevate women's knowledge and importance through the magazine, and yet frequently in the book his evident low estimation of women's appropriate place in government and business is breathtaking.
With his views -- and candor -- in today's world, Bok wouldn't last ten minutes in a position of prominence, much less as editor of a women's magazine.
I read this autobiography by Edward Bok as part of my Pulitzer Challenge (see my blog at http://pulitzer-challenge.blogspot.de/).
It won the Pulitzer Prize for Biography and Autobiography 1921 and I have to say it absolutely deserved it!Bok, editor of the Ladies' Home Journal for nearly 30 years, chose to write his memoirs in third person.
Very interesting, particularly form today's perspective, is for example one of the last chapters, where Bok exsmines the weaknesses as well as the strength of American society in connection with integration of immigrants.Absolutely worth reading!
Of course, the book suffers (for readers of today) from the conventions of the time: the tendency to only praise, and to overlook some of the faults, of famous people (this is no tell-all), and the rampant sexism (there's a lot of references to "the feminine nature," "the mother instinct," etc.).
I don't count these as faults of Bok; they are simply what one should expect of such a book from such a time period.
That being said, the book was fascinating: Bok worked with and knew well many eminent Americans of this time, including but not limited to many presidents and authors.
This book won the Pulitzer Prize for Biography/Autobiography (I think in 1919), and is an entertaining read.
Mr. Bok created our beautiful Singing Tower & gardens in Lake Wales, Florida.
The middle school I helped create is named after this amazing man.
Growing up hearing about him & the many hours I've spent on the grounds of the tower were never fully appreciated until I read his biography.
I'm reminded daily of his family legacy and hope that the middle school bearing his name will continue to create generations who live to follow his grandmothers creed, “Make you the world a bit better or more beautiful because you have lived in it.".
I have read this book twice. There is so much to enjoy. Mr. Bok's stories of his encounters, as both a youth and an adult, with famous people. The success story of an immigrant family. The spotlight on history, including not only World War One but aslo ideas such as widespread use of disposable drinking cups or certain fashion trends.The author would surely be appalled at the Ladies Home Journal today and this book provices an amazing opportunity to see how much less wise and thoughtful today's readers are.
A very upbeat bio. Not sure how true it all was but it was very nice to read. So much info of the publishing of magazines in the 1880 to 1920 period. Of course the author was friends with ALL the important literary people of the time along with Government heads of state, military leaders, just anybody of importance and of course all loved him, IT was pretty much Bok who was responsible for all the improvements made in the united states during that time. YEAH?????
Loved this book. An autobiography of the first editor of the Ladies Home Journal, which was a premier magazine in the late 1800s and early 1900s. Edward Bok immigrated to the US from the Netherlands as a 6 year old and was a motivated entrepreneur, even as a boy. It was fascinating to read about him and the influence he had on American society. Highly recommend.
Take out the autobiography self-promotion and you have some fascinating side stories about writers, artists, politicians, etc. It was also interesting to read about how women were perceived by an editor who undoubtedly made a fortune from them. I enjoyed the book.
3.5 starsMake the world a bit more beautiful and better because you have been in it." Edward William Bok's motto
A very entertaining read on a piece of history I had no knowledge. Bok's story is impressive though the book and is certainly dated and drags a bit towards the end.
I was hoping for some serious dish about being an editor of some significant American periodicals, but Mr. Bok does not dish.
excellent book - especially given the age of the writing. I got a bit bogged down toward the end, but all in all a great read!
As usual in an autobiography, he's full of himself, but it's a fascinating view of being in the magazine business in the 1850s. and just how life was lived at that time.
