https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/272607.Fade_Away
Oh, Coben, you have done it again.
With 20 pages left I was wondering if I was going to give this book more than 3 stars, or if it was going to end up being mediocre.
The story is far fetched and highly unbelievable, but I am willing to suspend belief for a few hundred pages of Myron and Win antics.
Then, as the story was winding down - WHAM!
BANG!
and, without giving anything away, this book earned its 4 star rating in the last 20 pages.
You gotta read this series in order.
As I started reading, bits and pieces began to come back to me, so apparently I have read it, but with a copyright date of 1996, it’s no wonder I didn’t remember all the minute details, so it was almost like reading it for the first time.
Myron's college basketball teammate, and friend, Greg Downing, has gone AWOL and the team is trying to keep it away from the press.
I’m having a great time catching back up with this series, and am looking forward to reading the next one on my list.
I very much have missed Myron Bolitar, but feel I must have waited too long in between books (and I did skip this one and read number 4 first, I was not happy about this).
I wasn't as excited about this book as I would have hoped, Win and Myron did have the same humour and bantering as always, but I was missing something.
An easy read as always, and an added bonus to read about Myron's knee injury which crushed his career.
Understanding the source of this left for a great segway into the next title with Win promising something dark in terms of payback.
Another excellent book in this series. I am now a fully subscribed Harlan Coben fan and I will continue to read about Myron until he stops writing them. I enjoyed getting to know the characters better, I was totally engrossed in the story and I laughed out loud at some off the funny comments. There are a couple of lines right at the end about what Win does next which were great. Karma at its best. Loved it.
Maybe 2.5. Not the best in this series. The plot was not bad, but the lame dialog was at times off-putting. I think I like Coben's newer stand alones so much that I expect the same quality in these older books. You can't ignore that fact--these books are old, 90's humor, and were probably hysterical back in the day. Now, not so much.
This book is just one of the books featuring main character Myron Bolitar.
Being released soon: Long Lost, the most recent addition to Coben's list of Myron books.
The others are: Promise Me, Drop Shot, Gone for Good, One False Move...Going to the beach?
Want to escape into an entertaining, well-written story?
Choose any book by Harlan Coben, but those Myron Bolitar stories became contagious for me for quite a while -- and a while ago.
That's why I have added Long Lost to my to-read shelf.
I'll read it this summer; see what's new with that character with the great sense of humour.
Catchy name to a book. The storyline crisscrosses but makes sense throughout the book. The characters, some good, some bad are entertaining as well as devious. How does an aging sports agent get the opportunity to relieve his glory days? All in the book.Myron is hired to play on a professional basketball team to secretly locate one of the teams’ most valued players. He accosted by the police, news reporters, homeless people, mobsters and teammates but he’s still determined to find out what really happened as well as solve a murder.
The Myron Bolitar series just keeps getting better and better by each book!
And Myron and Win's characters just seem to get funnier!In Fade Away, Myron is called on by a Basketball coach to track down Greg Downing, a professional Basketball player and former rival of Myron, who is the #1 suspect in a woman's murder.
But as Myron get more and more involved, the plot thickens and parts of his past come back to haunt him.Towards the end of the book when I thought it was going in a certain direction, it's like, BAM!
I never saw that coming!
But it turns out that this is to be a cover for the real job--finding the whereabouts of one of the team's star players, Greg Downing, who has disappeared on the eve of the playoffs.
Myron and Win are two of the more original "detectives" in the mystery genre, and Coben's comic touch, as usual, really enlivens the story.
There is a brief and pretty superficial look at the price sports superstars pay for their celebrity status that is crucial to the plot.[return][return]As always, Myron and Win are the chief attractions in a highly entertaining--many times truly funny--book.
Do you ever read a series, or even an author's novels, super slowly because you want to savour every novel and enjoy this adventure that they bring you on?
This is how I feel about the Myron Bolitar series.
I just can't get enough of it, but I want to enjoy this novels as long as I can.
Myron needs to work uncover by joining the NBA basketball team, so while trying to find Greg, he also needs to work through his feelings by being back on the court.
If you haven't read this series, do it!
Hmm. I am enjoying some of it. Two serious problems in the writing is that sometimes characters get out of character, and things happen that aren’t strong enough to justify themselves.
Harlan Coben- Fade Away (Dell Publishing 1998) 4.75 StarsThe life of a famous basketball star should be wonderful, lots of money and a big home, but when Greg Downing disappears blood is discovered in his basement and it appears that his life may not have been so perfect after all.
Myron Bolitar is a sports agent and former college ball player who competed against his rival Greg Downing and suspicions are out that Downing set up Myron’s career-ending injury, yet he has just been hired to locate the missing star.
Suppressed memories of the devastating injury are surfacing as he fights to solve this dangerous mystery.
Same old, same old.
Not only is Coben really hitting his stride with the characters in this novel, but the twisty-turny plot line kept me enthralled throughout.
I would hope that Coben's attitude towards larger sized women changes before the next novel.)Anyway, I snickered more than once, and this does not happen often.Jonathan Marosz is a great narrator, and I hope he narrates more of The Boltar's series.
The reveal at the end of the novel was a real wowser, and I am betting that it will keep me, and many, many other readers and listeners coming back for more.
I'm very happy that I kept up with this series, through the first couple of novels in it.
Myron is a sports agent and former FBI agent, but ten years ago was a a top NBA draft choice until an serious injury sidelined him in his first preseason game.
He's also missing and the owner of the team wants Myron to find him.
To do that he gives Myron a place as a substitute on the team.
When the trail leads to the bludgeoned corpse of a woman last seen with Greg, Myron, and his best friend and partner, Win, find themselves in real trouble.
The characters are all multi-dimensional, and the secondary characters of Win and Esperanza, are some of the best I've ever seen.
His portrayal of Myron (conscientious) and Win (borderline Sociopath) is second to none.
Again, I devoured these books (in order, as with all series books) and in record time and found myself waking groggy from lack of sleep thanks to Mr. Coben.P.S. Same review for all the Myron Bolitar novels, if you've read one of my reviews of Bolitar you've read them all.
Well, Mr. Coben as with most series authors, is a master at being consistent from one book to another and delivering a sucker punch to his readers everytime.
This book kept me guessing at every turn. I was totally surprised with the "who done it"! I love the two main characters in this series. They crack me up with their sarcasm and one liners. The book flowed even through the twists and turns. Once you think it is done, you find out that there is more.
4.5 StarsAnother excellent Myron Bolitar murder mystery. I don’t want to post a spoiler, so I’ll simply say the big reveal was something I had suspected for awhile as I read other books in this series and was sad to see that I was right. Love me some Myron - he just makes my heart full. He’s witty, self-deprecating, and loyal but imperfect. Is it weird that I wish he was my friend in real life?
Fade Away was quite enjoyable, multi-layered and fun. The ending was delightful as it involved Win, my own personal favorite.
Myron is asked to investigate an old sports rival by playing bball again.
I still love Myron and Win! So far this series has been great fun :)
In fact, I quite enjoyed it as a diverting read.This time, the sport is basketball, which was Myron Bolitar's game before his knee was injured in a terrible smash-up with another player.
In order to find him, Myron has to sort out the tangled web of his life and figure out who among his associates may have a clue to his whereabouts.When one of those putative associates turns up murdered, it seems that Greg may be number one on the list of suspects.Meanwhile, those professional gamblers to whom he owes all the money are looking for him as well, and they think Myron may know where he is.
I like the sports angle and the characters are great.
Myron is a retired basketball turned sports agent.
And the humor and banter between Win and Myron is like reading a modern day Spenser mystery.
This particular book puts Myron in the middle of everything but you don’t really know that till the very end.
Myron is asked to find a basketball player who has gone missing.
Myron hasn’t played basketball since his injury several years ago.
But in the end, everything comes full circle.I really like this series.
I just didn’t think this particular book was great.
But I just feel like quoting Calvin."Dreams never die.
Sometimes you think they're dead, but they're just hibernating like some big old bear.
And if the dream has been hibernating for a long time, that bear is going to wake up grumpy and hungry."Still reading the book since I need to stop reading it once in a while because of work.
But the book is really entertaining.
I really like Win. Everything with him seems simple.
I don't know but I feel that way.OK...I finished reading the book.
I was really entertained and I liked the story of the 3rd book.
Missed this one, way back there.Bolitar is good in any age. Coben can write.It was absolutely beyond refreshing to read a novel that had nuance, entertained, and did NOT hold a bunch of whining snowflakes.Anywhere.
Another good one. The best part? Win at the end...love that guy.
Myron Bolitar is back in this third installment in the series, this time to help investigate the disappearance of Greg Downing, a star basketball player that was his competition during Myron's playing days.
Myron has to join the team in order to gain the trust of the people surrounding Greg, bringing him back to what might have been and into the world he thought would have been his destiny.I really liked this story as we learned more about the circumstances that ended Myron's basketball career.
Win and Esperanza play major roles in the story, each helping Myron face his past as well as solve the circumstances of Greg's disappearance.
I thoroughly enjoyed this 3rd book in the Myron Bolitar series. Interesting characters and a exciting plot keeps the pages turning until the end. Coben also gives us some back history about Myron's college years and how his basketball career injury happened. The witty dialogue between Win and Myron adds much humor to the book. There's also that great twist at the end where the character you least suspect is the bad guy. I can't wait to read the next book in the series as Harlan Coben does not disappoint.
Interesting book, but a very convoluted plot with links to Myron’s past. He gets another chance to play in the NBA, but the reasons for it are neither believable nor realistic.
Two-haiku review:Myron hired by teamMissing basketball playerCan Myron find him?Guilt for past mistakesLeads us to do stupid thingsPretty angsty end4-1/2 stars
