https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48859.Loser_Takes_All
Affectionately and gratefully, Graham Greene.And in a few words Graham Greene dismisses this "entertainment" as he did most of his lighter work as a little bit of fun, not to be taken seriously.
It is exactly what Greene says it is, frivolous, and latterly adapted in to a Molly Ringwald comedy called Strike it Rich.Calling it slight might be an insult to the word, there's very little here but what is here is both fun and as ever coloured slightly with Greene's constant struggle with his Catholic faith and it's conflict with the natural order of Human life.
I said to Cary, ‘Do you see how shiny the right knee is?
It’s been touched so often for luck, like St Peter’s foot in Rome.’She rubbed the knee carefully and tenderly as though she were polishing it.‘Are you superstitious?’ I said.
Darling, you’re marrying the most superstitious woman in the world.
I’m not going to risk a thing.’There is not much I can say about Loser Takes All other than it is a delightful story of a newlywed couple on honeymoon.
I have heard Loser Takes All being compared to Coward's Private Lives and just for once I have to admit that this comparison also came to my mind when reading Greene's story.
Was GG drying out, or somepun, when he wrote this '54 short story? It opens like "Private Lives," w married couple arguing on adjoining Monte Carlo hotel balconies, and ends up like a first draft romcom of an unpublished E. Phillips Oppenheim.
Things do not go as planned when Dreuther fails to sail to Monte Carlo in time for the couple's wedding, which precipitates the couple's financial crisis, a growing gambling urge, Bertram's development of a failsafe mathematical way of winning at the tables, and a marital crisis when Cary begins to favor a hungry young man over her increasingly petty and greed-obsessed husband.
But, in the end, domestic happiness and poverty win out.The book starts out rather amusingly; Dreuther is like one of those benevolent capitalists straight out of a 1930s screwball comedy movie, and the initial scenes between he and Bertram are funny, but the book doesn't sustain this level of humor and becomes a bit dour when it tries to examine (somewhat shallowly) the causes of marital strife.


At just under 125 pages, it's the perfect length for the amount of story Greene has to tell.
He famously divided his fiction into novels and entertainments.
Given Greene's religion I was strongly tempted to see the elderly, kind-hearted, forgetful, fabulously rich, controller of the main character's life as a figure for God, especially since his only rival is described as "small, spotty, undistinguished, and consumed with jealousy." But I'm probably reading too much into it.
It's probably nothing more than a charming tale of boy finds girl, boy loses girl because of his greed, and boy finds girl again when he reforms.
A short GG novel about an accountant whose employer offers to finance his wedding in Monte Carlo. The accountant, of course has a system for the casino.A quick read. Entertaining, but not what I normally look for in GG.
A lesser known work by Graham Greene. Light quick read set in Monaco.
3.5 stars.
Well written, jolly jape about how money corrupts. He has many better books.
I know this was turned into a Rom Com film the following year.
I'm not finding any information on this particular novella, but I do wonder if this was written with a similar purpose in mind?
I'd suggest thinking of it as a Rom Com film, though.
Once you start thinking of it as a novella, it tends to fall apart.
As a Rom Com, it's a typical silly "Boy gets girl.
Boy looses girl.
Boy gets girl back again." As a novella, it's a pretty terrible story about two people who never should have gotten married, are horrible communicators, and have drastically different money management philosophies.

Something of a trifle - an amusing entertainment with a moral; Bertram has no money but a lovely fiancée; then he works a system to win at the casino in Monte Carlo. Suddenly he has all the money he could wish for but loses his lovely wife. Never mind - good sense prevails and there is a happy ending.
بعض الروايات تقف أمامها عاجزا عن النقد .. عاجزا عن المدح .. تنهي قراءتها كواجب لا بد أن يعلق شيئا منه في ذاكرتك .. ككلمة وقعت عبثا لا مكان لها إلا ورقتك!
In fact, checking it out I noticed that it was turned into a movie in 1956.Basically, Bertram, an accountant at a firm in London and is about to marry for the 2nd time.
Bertram sorts out a minor accounting problem and during their follow-on conversation, he offers instead to have Bertram and Cary a trip to Monte Carlo, a wedding with the Mayor and then a trip on his yacht.GOM, in reality Mr. Dreuther, doesn't show up on time, the wedding takes place, and Bertram discovers the joy of gambling at the casino, winning with his system.
Everyone that likes their light fiction (read: Krantz, Evanovitch, Patterson) should throw out that trash and go read Graham Greene's novellas.
This one was a fantastic example of a quick page turner that actually makes you think and examine your own relationships and fellings of right and wrong without being boorish and self important.
In the 3 1/2 hours it took me to read this book, I was treated to tales of personal growth, love, suspense, travel, and morality.
It's minimalism felt more like an Amy Hempel story than a Graham Greene book.
Whatever, go out and read it your damn self.
Greene wrote some great novels which grappled with moral questions and some lighter novels which he called entertainments.
This is one of the lighter ones, probably a preparation for the screenplay of the same name, and very entertaining.It is a romantic comedy.
(All together now, Aaah!) If I was being cynical, I might decide that he was really more interested in the mathematics than the money and he is justified by seeing that his system works, but Graham Greene does not write all that many happy endings and I am just going to enjoy this one.
Apparently Loser Takes All (1955) was written at the same time Graham Greene was writing one of his masterpieces, The Quiet American.
Greene considered it as one of his lesser works, an "entertainment" that was written for profit.
That being said, it is a well written and conceived novella about a hapless couple that decides to get married in Monte Carlo despite financial problems.
In summation, he arrives at the fact that money doesn't buy happiness and often causes major problems.
It is a quick and entertaining read, but not a major work.
Nonetheless, it is a worthwhile read at any rate.
Un libro bien pensado y bien llevado. Corto, sin pretensiones. No es la mejor novela de Greene pero tiene sus aciertos. Por momentos se sale del realismo a secas para volverse surreal. Tiene detalles sutiles. Me gustó. O es lo que necesitaba leer. Me gusta Greene aunque sé de sus limitaciones.Y es el segundo libro que acabo en el kindle. Tiene su encanto.
Probably a four star, but I really enjoyed it so it gets the length star bump; felt like 75 not 128 pages
" The loser takes all .. lose these for me. It's all I've got left ! "
It was sad, it was glad, it was heartwarming.
★★★★☆ (4/5)One adapts oneself to money much more easily than to poverty: Rousseau might have written that man was born rich and is everywhere impoverishedA wonderfully short and fun read, Graham Greene’s “Loser Takes All” is a first person account by Bertram, an accountant of humble means.
Bertram and Cary travel to Monte Carlo, settle in an affluent hotel and await the arrival of Mr. Dreuther in his yacht who does not show up as promised.
Unnecessary pain."•	People don't like reality.
This is a tight little book, novella-length really, about a modest, comfort-inclined accountant, Bertram, whose plan for a budget wedding and honeymoon with his fiance, Cary, are thrown up in the air when one of Bertram's firm's owners, nicknamed "Gom" for "Grand Old Man", suggests that Bertram and Cary instead sail to Monte Carlo on his yacht and wed there.Bertram and Cary take the ride, which takes them out of the element in which they thrived together.
Marketed as a novel, this novella shows Graham Greene's gift for light comedy.
It involves the disastrous honeymoon of a couple suddenly finding themselves on a gambling spree.This was published in 1955, following more than decade's worth of heavy novels.
Graham Greene is often as funny in bits and pieces, but, taking his cue from 18th-century humorists, he applies classical principles of comedy to LOSER TAKES ALL.
He would follow it with another decade of quite heavy writing until the comedic drive informed 1967's TRAVELS WITH MY AUNT.
But LOSER TAKES ALL is quite the tonic.You'll like it.
This short story from Graham Greene nicely captures the allure and the pitfalls of gambling. Bertram, a lowly accountant, and his bride-to-be, Cary, had planned to have their wedding at a modest church in London and their honeymoon in Bournemouth. These plans are altered somewhat when Bertram's boss decides to reward his hard work by arranging for them to marry and honeymoon in Monte Carlo instead. Initially the couple play the tables just for fun, but Bertram becomes increasingly obsessed as he experiences the lows and (even worse) the highs of gambling. 6/10
Solidt romanhåndværk. Graham Greenes kortroman fra 1955 om spillelidenskabens og andre menneskelige dårskabers fælder er en klassisk, gedigent fortalt historie, som stadig kan læses. Og for verden-rundt-læseren i bekneb for bøger af monegaskiske forfattere, kan den i en snæver vending tælle med som repræsentant for Monaco:https://bognoter.dk/2018/11/25/graham...
Another top class short story from Graham Greene. A somewhat lighter affair compared to his other stories, dwelling on essentially money and related vices vs true love, and what of the former one would give up for the latter. Some truly laugh out loud moments - "barmy" or "balmy" being the pick of them...
When I decided to pick up Greene, I started with this because it is so short. Despite it being short, I thought the writing was wonderful (He makes it seem so effortless!) and the story itself was silly--a moral story that is summed up in the old cliche that money can't buy happiness--but it was still enjoyable!
