https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30244626-4-3-2-1
I felt that a lot was lost in the actual writing of it.4 3 2 1 is the story of Archie Ferguson.
I will say that I was really impressed with how Paul Auster set out each different version of Archie – each personality was very distinguishable, even though they were inherently the same person.
At first I thought Paul Auster was trying to convey that that was how a young teenager speaks, but as each version of Archie grew older, he continued to speak in the same manner rambling on about nothing and it made me crazy.
Simply because I wanted to find out what happened to each different version of Archie.
Set in New York and New Jersey, it is a novel full of details, it begins with giving us the disparate backgrounds and families of store owner Stanley and photographer Rose.
What Auster does is bring home how each different decision and event changes the life of Ferguson through an intense and tumultuous period of American social and political history of the 1960s up until the early 1970s.
Different events in the family mark each Ferguson, such as the death of his father in a arson attack on the store.
and no matter how ENGAGING it was to follow the life of Ferguson- his family- his passions - his relationships - his hygiene and eating habits - his sex life - and his love for Amy Schneiderman-- 39 hours is a LOT OF TIME OUT OF A PERSON'S life!!!
spending as much time as I did with this book- almost 40 hours - feels like a love affair.
( the year life got interesting and was changing), The humor was great and not forced, the sadness was real, the warmth was real, The first trip that Archi and Amy take to Paris is wonderful, Lots of academic appreciation and literature, This book gave me some nostalgia for trees.
Unfortunately Auster doesn’t address this intriguing question in any kind of stimulating way though you’d think a novel about a character living four parallel lives would.How much of fate comes from within and how much comes from without?
Unfortunately Auster doesn’t address this intriguing question in any kind of stimulating way either though you’d think a novel about a character living four parallel lives would.I’ve got a lot of time for Paul Auster but I’m afraid I found this a self-indulgent and ultimately pointless novel.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. An expansive study of a young man's life - diverging on four separate paths - that captivates with intimate writing and playfully explores the existential quandary of destiny versus the unexpected.
I’ve imbibed quite a bit of biographical detail in this time from books such as  Hand to Mouth: A Chronicle of Early Failure and  The Red Notebook: True Stories and consequently I can see that a good deal of the content herein is based on the author’s own passions and experiences.
Given the same start point for each of the four lives it follows that the paths diverge as a result of random events which lead each each Archie to follow a different route.
But there are certain literary problems with the premise of alternative lives that I don't think Auster has worked through thoroughly, at least not for my purposes.
So, which relationships should the author choose to modify in alternative life-stories?
Does watching a world-series game at age four create a seed of interest in playing baseball or merely following baseball?
The bumps and nudges Auster introduces in each of Ferguson's lives are like random variables in a gigantic mathematical equation.
How can an author maintain control over the cascading possibilities in a way that still has some sort of narrative sense?
And, of course, thank you to Paul Auster for writing with the bravery and the talent to create something completely different in a way that is accessible and eminently readable for everyone.4 3 2 1 is a very different book; I have never read anything remotely like it in my reading life.
They were for me at first, but the writing is so rich and flowing that these aspects are not detrimental at all and actually became part of the story's charm.Archie Ferguson is endearing in all his parallel lives, from his babyhood to young boyhood and through each lifespan.
It is proving nearly impossible for me to write a coherent review of a book this large (both in page count and in scope), so I am going to concentrate on a few things that I kept thinking about since finishing it.This is Archie Fergusen's story, told in four alternating timelines.
This is a rare achievement in a genre where I often prefer tighter works to Dickensian ones.It is really interesting to see what developments Auster sees as inevitable and which parts of Fergusen's life change depending on the time line.
4321 narrates four versions of one young man’s life, how it might have differed given small altered circumstances.
Essentially it struck me as four different drafts of the same half-finished novel.
It remained for me four different drafts of a half-finished and not very enthralling novel.
It’s a very American novel and as such will probably appeal more if you live on the other side of the Atlantic.
For me, the bottom line was I wasn’t enthralled by any of the narratives which were all very predictable portraits of the young artist.
Over the years, my dudes, have been encouraging me to read Auster.
One boi told me...Jaidee you are much more likely to listen to your gal pals (this is true but not by much ).
I started to resent my guy friends and their praise of Auster....but I continued on for a number of reasons....the primary one is that I liked good ol Archie...I liked all four versions of him and despite my resentment and disappointment was rooting for him and actually felt bad for him for being written up in this way !!
What I liked: -Archie 1.
I have just read it over an intensive six days, and read over a third (almost 400 pages) yesterday to finish it.I will not spend too long on the basic premise, four life-stories that are alternative versions of the life story of a young writer who shares many biographical details with Auster himself (I didn't realise just how many until I read his Wikipedia biography), but it is impossible to write a fair review without spoilers.
(view spoiler)[ The final page acknowledges this failure, choosing the unelected appointment of the increasingly brutalised New York governor Rockefeller as Ford's vice president as its final irony  (hide spoiler)].
When the novel is good, it is great: witty, funny, charming, hitting character and plot points macro and micro with ease and precision, and always invoking an accurate but also engaging sense of time and place as we watch Ferguson grow up in the 40s, 50s and 60s in New Jersey and New York (depending on the version) and struggle with his identity, the Vietnam War, Antisemitism, the Civil Rights Movement, racism, the Kennedy election and assassination, white flight, and the hope and disillusionment and fracturing of society during the 60s especially.
Το ογκώδες μυθιστόρημα των 1224 σελίδων, χωρίζεται σε μεγάλα κεφάλαια, τα οποία διανύουν περίπου έναν αιώνα Αμερικάνικης ιστορίας.Το πρώτο κεφάλαιο μας γνωρίζει με την οικογένεια Φέργκιουσον, λίγα πράγματα για τον παππού και την γιαγιά του κεντρικού ήρωα και αρκετά περισσότερα για τους γονείς.Τα υπόλοιπα κεφάλαια είναι αφιερωμένα στον Άρτσι Φέργκιουσον ή απλώς “Φέργκιουσον”, όπως συνηθίζει να τον προσφωνεί ο αφηγητής της ιστορίας.Ο Άρτσι γεννήθηκε στο Newark το 1947, από τη Ρόουζ και τον Στάνλει Φέργκιουσον.
Όταν ξεπέρασα ένα μικρό μπέρδεμα στο δεύτερο κεφάλαιο, στο οποίο προσπαθούσα να ξεχωρίσω τις τέσσερις εκδοχές της ζωής του ήρωα, απλά δεν μπορούσα να το αφήσω από τα χέρια μου.Σε αυτό φυσικά βοήθησε η πραγματικά υπέροχη αφήγηση- σε τρίτο πρόσωπο μεν, αλλά από την οπτική γωνία του κεντρικού ήρωα.
I’ve seen criticisms of this book that complain about the time period it is set in and that suggest that if you are going to write four life stories then why not make them more different from one another.
I think Auster wants to review the times he has grown up in and some the conclusions he draws and especially the very, very end of the book are actually very relevant to today.
The book is far more interesting because the life stories are similar but different and I think making them radically different would hugely spoil the book.It’s a significant investment of time to read this book.
"4321" è una scatola magica che contiene quattro storie incastrate insieme come carte in un mazzo. Non c’è scampo all’incessante e impetuoso rimescolarsi di vita e morte, gioia e sofferenza, paure e slancio.Recensione completa qui: http://www.illibraio.it/4321-paul-aus...
The bombardment of all these words, that ceaseless yammering which failed to make any distinction between important things and unimportant things, talk that could impress you with its intelligence and perspicacity or else half bore you to death with its utter meaninglessness.  Update 1:  Inexplicably shortlisted for the Booker. I'm lost for words. If only Auster had been.....  Update 2: Awarded my worst completed book of 2017 (albeit The Nix may have been a contender had I got past page 70) The
If Auster's historical insights were uninspiring, I'm sure Auster does have many intelligent insights into the literature that he mentions throughout the story, but he seldom shares them with us here, often simply resorting to lists of books and authors.
which rather begs the question of why mention them.Ferguson.4, himself an author, notes at the end 'he was turning out roughly four pages for every one he kept - if only Auster had followed Ferguson.4's approach and kept only one Ferguson the novel may not have been improved, but at least it would have been mercifully shorter.
Βαθμολογία: ∞Υπάρχουν ογκώδη βιβλία γεμάτα δράση με πέντε, δέκα, είκοσι πρωταγωνιστές απαραίτητοι γι

A Portrait of the American Artist as a Young ManSo, he takes up enough space for four people the way that I see people do in fast food joints. Four diverging versions of the same precocious young writer, or five if you count Auster.
I have a feeling that this novel is going to be a fabulous success.
It is about a Jewish family living in New Jersey or more specifically about their son Ferguson.
The reader is given insight into four different versions of Ferguson's life.
Each decision made by his parents or himself results in a different outcome, hence a different life path or portrayal of Ferguson's life.
That is the bare bones of the nature of this novel.
I suspect this is a case of right book/ wrong reader.My sincere thanks to Faber & Faber, Paul Auster and netgalley for an opportunity to read an advance copy of this novel.
4.5*Eίναι το πρώτο αλλά σίγουρα όχι το τελευταίο βιβλίο του Όστερ που διαβάζω.Μπορεί αρχικά να το φο
masterpiece /ˈmɑːstəpiːs/ noun a work of outstanding artistry, skill, or workmanship. Пол Остър твърди, че кариерата му на писател през целия му живот го е водила до създаването на 4 3 2 1 - неговият магнум опус. След като прочетох послендата страница на романа бих казал същото за себе си - че всичко, което съм чел, гледал, правил досега - ме е водило по-близко до разбирането и пълното потапяне в това, което Пол Остър прави с 4 3 2 1.Повествованието е рагърнато и в същото време не бих казал, че
Пол Остър твърди, че кариерата му на писател през целия му живот го е водила до създаването на 4 3 2 1 - неговият магнум опус.
След като прочетох послендата страница на романа бих казал същото за себе си - че всичко, което съм чел, гледал, правил досега - ме е водило по-близко до разбирането и пълното потапяне в това, което Пол Остър прави с 4 3 2 1.Повествованието е рагърнато и в същото време не бих казал, че имаше и една излишна дума.
Това го правят точно книгите, които определям като "изключителни".
Честно казано няма вече интерес да чета неща, които са под това ниво.
One of those books that don’t simply keep you good company but, for the time it takes to read them, they’re as close to you as your very thoughts.
It’s also those little completely personal things, completely out of the author’s control or knowledge, that surround a book and give it a whole new kind of power over you.
Story-wise, as much as I was enjoying it, I didn’t actually know how brilliant it really was until I reached the final pages and the prefix meta was given a whole new meaning.
I received a copy of this book from Netgalley, in exchange for an honest review.A breathtaking, weighty epic of delicious 'What Ifs'...I'm a big fan of Paul Auster, so was expecting massive things from this book...
It's a weighty tome (all 860 pages of it) and not the easiest of reads, but is so incredibly satisfying, not to mention thoroughly addictive once you get started, that it deserves nothing less than a full five star rating.
The book follows Archie Ferguson, who starts as a young lad and ends up as a fully grown man, but throughout the story, we're not just introduced to one Ferguson, but four possible versions of him.
On many levels, this is a really great story which plays with plot and destinies and gives you some insightful anecdotes on life and growing up.
The only problem I had with it, though, was quite a big one: "4321" is too long and too dragging and you can't help but lose interest towards the end.
"4321" is the story of Ferguson who grows up in 1960s America.
This was a great concept, and it shines through that Paul Auster is a magnificent and captivating author!
The novel is the coming of age story of Archie Ferguson and starts off with 4 different versions of his life.
The idea of a novel following more than one possible life path isn't new -I can think of two that I've read - "Aquamarine" by Carol Anshaw and "The Post-Birthday World" by Lionel Shriver - but Auster's 4-3-2-1 structure is more interesting and added a level of tension and foreboding.I enjoy reading doorstoppers during my winter vacation.
Last year I read, "A Little Life," and the year before, "The Goldfinch." Although "4-3-2-1" is not a page-turner like those novels, it is very, very compelling.
In any case, Paul Auster left his mark on me with his City of Glass, and of the novels and non-fiction books I read by him in the years that followed none was in any way disappointing.
Unlike Paul Auster I’m not actually a big fan of baseball, although I quite like the game, and I’m glad I know some of the lingo (and the rules, I hope) and was therefore able to follow the respective sections in the book.
I guess, that’s the message to be received.□  □  □ There’s another topic worth mentioning, which is not a subject, but more like a theme and which frequently occurs in other Paul Auster books, and that’s chance.
Αυτό λοιπόν, αν με ρωτάτε, αποτελεί έναν πολύ σημαντικό λόγο για να διαβάσει κάποιος το βιβλίο.Αν έπρεπε όμως να κρατήσω κάτι από το 4 3 2 1 θα ήταν ότι ο Auster κατάφερε να με κάνει να αγαπήσω κάθε εκδοχή του Φέργκιουσον, να ταυτιστώ με τέσσερις ήρωες και να κάνω μία ολόκληρη λίστα από βιβλία, συγγραφείς και ταινίες που μάλλον θα χρειαστούν όχι  4 αλλά 14 εκδοχές του εαυτού μου να βάλουν ένα χεράκι για να τα διαβάσω ή να τις δω!
Τί κι αν έχεις διαβάσει καμιά δεκαπενταριά βιβλία του πριν αφοσιωθείς στο τελευταίο -1200 σελίδων- μυθιστόρημά του; Τί κι αν νομίζεις ότι πλέον τον γνωρίζεις σαν την παλάμη του χεριού σου; Αυτός βρίσκει τον τρόπο και σε συγκλονίζει, σε συναρπάζει, σε διαμορφώνει. Oh, Paul, you bloody legend.
