https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8686068-the-devotion-of-suspect-x
He concocts a seemingly unbreakable alibi for mother and daughter: however, unfortunately for Ishigami, the physicist and amateur sleuth Manabu Yukawa, his former classmate and genius of equal standing is on the case.
There is a big plot hole - the police immediately zeroing in on Yasuko and her daughter is unbelievable - but we can condone that in such a tightly written story.What fascinated me, and raised this book to four stars, was the tussle between the mathematician - who delights in creating insoluble puzzles - and the physicist interested in tweaking out nature's laws from her behaviour, and building mathematical models for the same.
The reader is left in a unique position of knowing more than the police about where the investigation should end, but discovering clues with the police as they work backwards.The narrative follows both the police investigation and the viewpoint of the perpetrator(s), leaving me marveling at the chess game.
According to the author's GR page, "The Devotion of Suspect X was the second highest selling book in all of Japan— fiction or nonfiction—the year it was published, with over 800,000 copies sold." I find this especially interesting when I think of the mysteries thrillers that routinely top American best-seller lists.
The Devotion of Suspect X is a must-read for anyone who appreciates police procedurals, mysteries, math, Japan, literature .
The Devotion of Suspect X is the third in the Detective Galileo series, but I didn't once have the impression that I lacked background or relationship information gleaned from the initial 2 books.
If not for the publishers blurbs on the book, I'd not have guessed they did.So why is The Devotion of Suspect X an excellent read?1.
Yukawa solves the mystery and cares deeply about the outcome.
Off to find my next Detective Galileo book....
He imagines a fantasy life with them, listening to mother and daughter through the thin apartment walls, and his daily walk to school includes a stop to purchase his boxed lunch at the small shop where Yasuko works.
Within this fictitious context, Ishigami surprisingly exhibits a fierce desire to protect both mother and daughter, and so begins a bizarre tale that originates with the unexpected arrival of Yasuko’s nefarious ex-husband Togashi.To divulge the minute intricacies of this suspenseful tale would require *spoilers.* Ishigami’s masterful, methodical, and devious scheme demands a skillful exposé by the incongruous, yet highly likeable duo of Dr.Yukama and Detective Kusanagi, the intrepid investigators who are destined to unravel the shocking and mind-boggling conundrum.
This has been one of the top thrillers I have read this year and this story is like nothing I have ever read. I will talk more about this in my review.Firstly this is originally a Japanese novel and has been translated into English. The translation is done pretty well and the flow of the story is really good.Basic Plot: A crime is committed and then a plan is formed to cover-up the crime. "What they needed was a perfect defense based on perfect logic." What happens when the investigation is bein
What happens when the investigation is being done by a genius and the cover-up by a mastermind.This book was like an intense chess match and after each move from one end there was another counter-move from the other end.The twists in the last few chapters had my mind reeling.
I think part of the main twist in the book is somewhat similar to a twist in one of Agatha Christie's novel (view spoiler)[The Body in the Library
It made me sit back and think about everything that happened in the book and if the ending any different would have been more satisfying.
Devotion indeed...Having read the fifth novel in this series, Salvation of a Saint, I was intrigued enough to read this one.
Writing with subtlety and gentle humour, he creates interesting, believable characters and weaves an intricate plot.
Even though one knows from the start who the murderer is and how and why the deed was done, the suspense builds to an almost unbearable crescendo, particularly as the characters are so well portrayed.
There are surprises to the very last paragraph.This novel was an enormous success in Japan.
Wowwww I loved this so much. It was so great watching this puzzle come together. Watch my full review: https://youtu.be/_8bLtNauZyA
I have to say this book was a delight!! The plot was very good!! I had to google some stuff, lol, but I learned a few things I didn't know before this book. Thanks to my Goodreads friend, LaTonya for the recommendation.
Jusqu'à la toute fin, j'ai cru que ce roman était une simple histoire policière très agréable à lire. L'intrigue était originale et intelligente, avec une construction rarement vue dans d'autres titres du genre, et une ambiance propre à la culture japonaise, mais sans émotions fortes. Et puis il y a eu les explications, et j'ai tout vu d'un autre oeil, avec la gorge toute serrée. Je suis très touchée par "le dévouement" en question, qui dépasse ce que l'on peut imaginer au départ, et les dernières pages... Ça me serre le coeur. Tant d'absolu dans cet amour !
What a fantastic book ! Brilliant plot narration by the author. One of the best books in the thriller genre I have read so far. It is about a murder and how the protagonist helps the culprit cover up the crime recreating the crime scene (not disclosing the details here). The climax is absolutely surprising and it definitely keeps the reader on tenterhooks.I wonder if the Hindi / Malayalam movie "Drishyam" was inspired by this book. Enjoyed this immensely !
The Devotion of Suspect X is the third book of the 'Detective Galileo' series by the author Keigo Higashino.
The author presents us with a greater challenge than wondering who the murderer is: he keeps us guessing about how the murder can be hidden, in order to make it a perfect crime.The premise of the story, as oft-repeated, is simple.
One day, things go a little out of hand, and Yasuko, in a terrible fit of rage, ends up killing him.
As the story progresses, we are forced to wonder, in the author's own words,"Which is harder: devising an unsolvable problem, or solving that problem".
That must be some kind of a personal best for me.All of the crime thrillers I had read before this had the same template of the classical whodunit, with a few alterations here & there.
After all, we're not expecting something like 'Crime and Punishment'.And that is perhaps the biggest achievement of Keigo Higashino's 'The Devotion of Suspect X', the first in the Detective Galileo series.
There are also a few sub-plots - one of them being an old connection between Ishigami & Yukawa, which makes their conversations delightful to read as they talk science & mathematical logic.But the narrative perhaps emerges as the biggest winner in this novel.
When the crime, perpetrator(s), and motive were revealed within the first few chapters, I was sure I would be in for an anticlimactic read.
How would an author keep a reader interested for the remainder of the book?!
Higashino succeeded, and in a phenomenal way, in that even when I thought I understood the basics that the investigation was based on, that plot twist at the end was like a slap in the face.
You don't really realize that you're involved in a cat and mouse game until the end.
I love it when everything comes together like that.
Like butter!
Subtle, skillful, sad.& quite unlike anything else I have ever read.This made me think of two intelligent people playing a game of chess. Shogi is also known as Japanese Chess Impossible to review without spoilers, impossible to stop thinking about. Thanks to real life friend Peter for pressing this in my hands,last time I was in the library.Read it now.
Bi kịch của anh là “chẳng có lý do gì để chết” nhưng anh vẫn chuẩn bị sẵn thòng lọng cho mình bởi “chỉ là anh không có lý do gì để sống thôi”Thế rồi khi con lắc sắp dừng lại sau quá trình dao động điều hòa của nó thì 1 lực đẩy rất nhẹ chạm vào.
Nó tiếp tục hành trình lắc qua lắc lại nhưng theo 1 biên độ khác.
Perhaps a cultural mismatch for me: I found the pace of the book far too slow, the romantic element Victorian at best, and the idea of that brilliant physicists and mathematicians would be also brilliant in sleuthing unrealistic. The Japanese setting is interesting. The book has good twists at the end, but the plot takes way too long to get there.
Things go out of hand and Yasuko ends up killing him with the help of Misato.
Her next door neighbor Ishigami, a high school math teacher, aware of the incident takes control of the situation and helps her get rid of the body and cover up the murder and provides instructions to them about what part to play.This book is simply amazing.
We have Ishigami, a teacher obsessed with Maths who likes solving difficult problems and Yukawa, a physicist and his former colleague who's master of observation and assists police frequently in their investigations and is known as detective Galileo.
Keigo Higashino: =) Translator: You want to read this? Mwahahahaha. Eat mah shit!!!!!Me:Meh. Hmmm..okay. Ohh it’s getting interesting. Ayt. Who the fuck translated this??! Ohhh well. Still pretty good. Awesome. What.the.fuck. Ahhh!!! Ahhhhh!!! Whoah really??? Ahhhhhhh!!!! * welp* Whewwww. Wow. Whyyyyyy. Wow!!! You: ????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????{grade school review but I should probably click like for the effort} \ (-_-)Boring Person:A totally different spin
Keigo Higashino: =) Translator: You want to read this?
Ayt. Who the fuck translated this??!
You: 	????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????{grade school review but I should probably click like for the effort}									\									(-_-)Boring Person:A totally different spin on the much-covered grounds of murder mystery, this novel is sure to bring chills to fans of the genre and casual readers alike.
The crime is committed in the first two chapters without hiding the identity of the culprits and you might be left wondering what more is there for you to read.
Like a magician, Higashino carefully employs misdirection to suit his sleight-of-hand.
Sumida River in Tokyo (Photograph by Ian Muttoo)A dead body whose face is smashed to hide the identity shows up near the river and Detective Kusanagi must identify the murder and find the perpetrator.
Thus, pinning the two masterminds against each other.Tokyo Metropolitan PoliceIn The Devotion of Suspect X, Ishigami and Yukawa try to outwit each other in this cops and robbers game.
What Yukawa couldn’t fathom is the depth in which Ishigami is willing to devote himself to and ultimately sacrifice for Yasuko.
I almost wish Ishigami could triumph over Yukawa.Keigo Higashino
I had no idea of what to expect and was pleasantly surprised by how much I enjoyed this, my first outing with a Japanese murder mystery.I especially liked the cerebral nature of the story where we follow a police detective and his physicist/ professor friend Dr. Yukawa, aka Professor Galileo, as they try to determine who killed the ex-husband of a sandwich shop clerk, Yasuko Hanaoka.
will the police with the help of their friend Galileo, figure it out.
There are eight books in this series in Japanese, but just three - 3, 5, and 6 - have been translated so far.
By the way, this is an absolute "must read" top rated story which will thrill you right from the word go.As you begin turning the pages, you would become acquainted with Yasuko Hanoaka, a single parent who has needed to move to get away from her ex, at long last snaps when he appears at her new entryway.
Enter gave neighbor Ishigami, a secondary school math educator equipped for making the ideal explanation: too secure to be in any way broken, deliberately intended to appear to be conceivable as opposed to devised.
brace 2018 18/37 πρώτο βιβλίο για την τετράδα συγγραφέων διαφορετικής εθνικότητας(Ιάπωνας)πολύ καλή γραφή, έξυπνο σχέδιο και (view spoiler)[ ηθικό τέλος με απόδοση δικαιοσύνης, ωστόσο θα προτιμούσα να σωθούν αυτοί που παραδόθηκαν (hide spoiler)] ;p
Фактът, че започвам така показва какво въодушевление изпитвам след прочита на японската кримка.
И не, не очаквайте задъхан трилър с обрати на всеки две-три страници, ако имате подобни щения, стойте надалеч от тази книга.
Хигашино обръща сюжета наопаки - още в началото ни показва убийството и ни разкрива кои са извършителите, а оттук насетне започва играта на котка и мишка - детективите и техният нещатен консултант - гениален физик - ще трябва да изминат дълъг път, докато успеят да напаснат разпилените парченца от пъзела, за да решат случая...
Е, предполагам, че само азиатски автор би могъл да напише тази книга, защото героите имат типичната за Изтока ценностна система и вътрешна мотивация.
There is a murder. There is a suspect. There is a policeman. Yet in the brief space of a few fairly straight-forward chapters, these elements transform. The crime becomes a chessboard. The perpetrator turns to pieces of black, the lawman to pieces of white, as we pull back to meet the true players - two academics, friends from long ago, who find themselves facing off in a battle of wits.Everything here is deceptive, including the modest reserve with which Higashino relays his tale. Those sleeves of his are filled with tricks...and a single hidden heart.
By the end of the first chapter Yasuko Hanoaka and her daughter Misato have killed Yasuko’s ex-husband Togashi.
You could argue it was in self-defence but that’s not the point.
Yukawa at one point asks whether it’s more difficult to create the unsolvable problem or to solve that problem.
On one hand you’re working with Ishigami to create the perfect alibi while working alongside Yukawa trying to find the chinks in the armour and dismantle the perfect crime.
I never read any book of this writer before.
But after finishing Suspect X, I felt I have to read his writings more often!
It was AWESOME, SIMPLY AWESOME!
If you are a lover of thriller or mystery, you have to read it!The plot was sooooooooo good!
The twist in the last part was simply mind-blowing.
It may seem like an ordinary murder case at the beginning.
But when you continue reading, you will find out different aspects of this simple looking case and you just cannot guess the whole thing of your own.
And for me, that is the beauty of a perfect thriller.
বই পরসঙগ :গতবাধা মারডার মিসটরি/ করাইম থরিলার হিসেবে এতদিন যা পড়ে এসেছি, সেগুলো মোটামুটি নিরদিষট ছকে সাজানো থাকে। অপরাধ করমকানড অথবা খুন যেটাই হোক না কেন, পুরো বই জুড়ে ইঁদুর বিড়াল খেলার পর একদম শেষে গিয়ে সবকিছুর খোলাসা হয়। কিনতু গলপের শুরুতেই যদি একটি খুনের ঘটনা ঘটে, আর খুনীর পরিচয় থেকে শুরু করে মোটিভ,পলযান, অযালিবাই – সবকিছুই আপনার জানা হয়ে যায়, তাহলে আর সাসপেনস থাকে কোথায়? অপরাধীর পরিচয় জেনে গেলে আর করাইম থরিলারের যৌকতিকতা কী?জাপানি সুলেখক কিয়েগো হিগাশিনোর সবারথকতাটা এখানেই। ডিটেকটিভ গযালিলিও স
অনুবাদ প্রসঙ্গ :আগেই বলেছি, বইটা গতানুগতিক ধারার নয়। মানুষের দৃষ্টিভঙ্গি এবং খুঁটিনাটি বর্ণনাভঙ্গিই এই বইয়ের প্রাণ। একে তো জাপানিজ থেকে ইংরেজিতে রুপান্তরিত, সেখান থেকে আবার বাংলা অনুবাদ। মূলভাব ঠিক রেখে অনুবাদ করাটা যথেষ্ট চ্যালেঞ্জিং ছিল বলা যায়। “থ্রি এ এম” এবং “থ্রি টেন এ এম” এর মাধ্যমে সালমান হক নিজেকে একজন সুযোগ্য অনুবাদক হিসেবে মেলে ধরেছে আগেই। সঙ্গত কারণেই “দ্য ডিভোশন অব সাসপেক্ট এক্স” এর অনুবাদের ওপর পুরোপুরি ভরসা ছিল। শুরু থেকে শেষ পর্যন্ত একটানা পড়তে গিয়ে কোথাও থামতে হয়নি, একবারও মনে হয়নি ভাষান্তরিত কোনও বই পড়ছি। এমন একটি সহজ, সুন্দর, সাবলীল, অনুবাদ উপহার দেয়ার জন্য সালমান কে ধন্যবাদ। এতো নিখুঁত পরিকল্পনা অন্তর্নিহিত যে গল্পে, তার অনুবাদ এমন নিখুঁত না হলে কি চলে?
On some previous case, Kusanagi met Yukawa, discovering how adept the professor is at solving tricky crimes, so Kusanagi sometimes drops by the professor's classroom or laboratory to visit.Shinji Togashi's body is discovered by the Old Edogawa River by the police.
Unknown to the detectives, his ex-wife Yasuko Hanaoka and her daughter from a previous marriage, Misato, killed him.
Yasuko had moved several times to hide from Togashi, but he always found her.
This last time, though, there is a violent struggle and both Misato and Yasuko kill him.
He tells Yasuko that he will take the body away and help her hide all evidence of the crime.
দুরভাগযজনকভাবে মুভি দেখে ফেলার পর বই কিংবা বই পড়ে ফেলার পর মুভি দেখার আগরহ অনেকটা থিতিয়ে যায়। তবে এ বই থেকে হাইলি অযাডাপটেড সুপারহিট মুভি  দৃশযাম  আমার পরিয় মুভির তালিকায়। তাই বইটা পড়ার আগরহ ছিল তুমুল।আপাতদৃষটিতে মনে হবে খুব সহজ-সরল একটা কাহিনি। ঘটনার ঘনঘটা নেই, নেই কোন দুরদানত অযাকশন-সটানটবাজি, লেডি কিলার হিরোও নেই। কাহিনি একদম ফলযাট। এক ডিভোরসি মহিলা তার পরাকতন সবামীর অতযাচারে তিতি বিরকত। শেষমেশ একদিন শয়তানটার হাত থেকে মুকতি পেতে একদিন দুরঘটনাবশত খুনই করে ফেলে লোকটাকে। মা-মেয়েকে বাঁচাতে একেবার

Yasuko bekerja di sebuah kedai bento dan tinggal bersama putri tunggalnya yang masih SMP, di sebuah apartemen, bersebelahan dengan guru SMA sekaligus genius matematika bernama Ishigami.Suatu malam, Togashi, mantan suami Yasuko, mendatangi apartemen Yasuko dan membuatnya jengkel.
Entah mungkin Misato lagi PMS atau di sekolah dia dicuekin sama gebetannya, Misato jadi emosi dan melempar Togashi dengan vas bunga.
Namun Ishigami, dengan segala analisisnya yang bikin saya bilang “Eee gokil ni orang!” tahu apa yang sebenarnya terjadi.
Ishigami yang mati-matian mengelabui polisi untuk menutupi tindakannya atau Yukawa yang terkenal dengan julukan Profesor Galileo yang akan membongkar trik teman dekatnya itu?
