https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/233692.The_Far_Side_Gallery_4
The Far Side by Gary Larson was one of the two comic strips I've loved most (the other being Calvin & Hobbes).
Then I could look my favorites for a chuckle – 100 times I could look at the same comic and still laugh.I was really bummed when Larson announced retiring The Far Side in 1995.
But to his credit, he thought the series was getting repetitive and did not want to enter what he called the "Graveyard of Mediocre Cartoons."The Far Side Gallery 4 is one of many book collections showcasing his cartoons.
Overall, I give The Far Side 5-stars, but this book does not typify Larson’s incredible humor.
There are a number of clever yet simple (as in pen and ink) cartoonists out there today who I think can capture on one small box the simplicity of life, its absurdity and pass a humours twist on it, without being vulgar, demeaning or repetitive.
The far side (along with in my view Dilburt and Calvin and Hobbs) is one of the masters of this and as such is a joy to read.
The book has a lot to get through over 160 pages with on average 4 images a page, this is a book you cannot wade through but to dip in to when time allows.
LOVE Gary Larson.
Possibly cave-cows.One of the benefits in reading every word in a book is that I come across stuff like this: "No part of this book may be used or reproduced in any manner whatsoever without written permission except in the case of reprints in the context of reviews." That was written in Galleries 1, 2, and 4...
In my reviews of the previous 3 galleries, I described my favorite Far Sides.
A picture is worth a thousand words, or in Gary Larson's case - far more.
I still want to see for myself.)Anyway, thank you Far Side.
Who knew cows could be so funny...and sneaky, not to mention, dogs, cats and so on. The Far Side is probably a never to be repeated comic that stands as one of the few unique examples of what cartoons can be. These may not be for everybody, but try them. If you haven't been introduced to these you'll thank me (or whoever introduced you).
Looking back on these years after Ive last taken a look at them, I find them that much more poignant and hilarious. Many of them were lost on me in my youth and now, knowing more, are even funnier than the first time around. Its always good to go back and take a look at things like this, even if only to remind yourself that life shouldnt be taken too seriously.
A bit inappropriate, but extremely funny. kind of like family guy ;)
Ruth saw that I was reading a graphic novel, so she insisted on finding this book for me to read.
This book is hilarious!!! I've read it at least three times!
When I was 12 years old, I picked this book up at the W&M campus bookstore in Colonial Williamsburgs on a school trip. I remember reading it everyday for months after. I never realized until I was much older how much it actually steered me towards my love for comedy and the arts. I still have the book and enjoy reading it on a nice summer morning on my porch. Just something about the way Gary Larson creates his cartoons that is unlike anything else. Clever, funny and just all-around enjoyable.
Some of them were good, but I didn't find a lot of them to be very funny, possibly because of references I don't get, or current events at the time.
Never fails to tickle my humerus. I go back again and again.
I haven't read this book in years. But every time I do it cracks me up. One of the best cartoons ever published.
What can I say? It's Gary Larson
Foreword by Robin Williams, some of the cartoons/comics are in color.
Always love Far Side.
Weird, hilarious, occasionally veer into dude not funny but mostly just an extremely funny sideways look at life.
Her in NC we not only have to contend with Trumps craziness but local insanity like this: The NC legislature just proposed a state law that would undo a locally passed ban on plastic bag sales on the NC outer banks.
What is their chant "More plastic bags!
More plastic bags!
We want out beaches to look like shit and kill all the turtles!!
I think Mark Twain's famous quote is relevant when speaking of Larson's talent: “I didn't have time to write a short letter, so I wrote a long one instead.” Larson's comics only get one panel, so the reader has to be able to pull layers and layers of backstory from one image.
To accomplish this he has to draw on conventional wisdom, cliches, and shared perceptions.
By drawing on what we know, he makes it easy for a reader to extend their imagination beyond the one panel into a whole universe for these bizarre characters.
Oh, books of my past.I've had The Far Side Gallery books for as long as I can remember. I grew up reading these comics and giggling to myself. Every time I come back to them I understand some of the more 'adult' and scientific jokes and puns and the comics only get more enjoyable. This collection of five books is fantastic, and brings together all (?) or at least a significant amount of Gary Larson's work.
Hahahaha this book is probably the best comic book EVER! Larson has overdone himself on this book and I think that this is my favorite Larson book of all time. Filled with funny comics for example: everyone knows the "why did the chicken cross the road" joke right? Gary does a cartoon where there is a chicken on one side of the highway, and on the other is a sign that the chicken is looking at. It says: "The Other Side: why do you need a reason?" This is just an example of all the funny cartoons in the book.
Had a one page commentary page with Robin Williams on the front page. kinda chilling to read after observing his death last week. Far Side is a sinister type of humor to gain attention through the off the wall humor & Jokes with witty humor on Animals, Humans and Aliens. The book is about 160 pages, I had some real good laughs and comic relief. Not going to re-read it anytime soon. Must have for any cartoonist and comic hobbyists.
Personally, I didn't find many of these to be very funny. They often seemed kind of forced. Also, may of them seemed like they would make more sense in a certain context, perhaps in light of a certain event or current situation at the time when they were written. This gives the sense that they are truly a newspaper comic - not really one that can be fully appreciated when in a collection or book format.
While reading some sort of pregnancy advice blog, I came across the suggestion to bring a comic strip type book to the hospital with you so that you can enjoy yourself without having to concentrate too much. Well, I never read this in the hospital, but I did in the ensuing crazy time after that, so it worked!
just like the other far side books this is a seriously good book for serious people who like to have fun when they read. I have to read them daily otherwise I will fell like I didn't get all the fun out of the day. equally funny to calvin and hobes AKA another great comedy book you never know w that their going to do next. All and all this is super great book!
I remember being introduced to the Far Side by a very good friend after a heavy session of serious alcohol...I know that it's nothing to be proud of [but it felt good at the time], yet I have often wondered if my state of alcohol-induced giggles was entirely down to the Far Side...ANSWER = IT WAS....The books are outstandingly still funny.
More more more goodness of The Far Side.Gary Larson has a view on life (or at least the view of life that makes it into his comics) that is totally twisted, yet also hilarious.But I probably don't have to say that, as probably everyone over the age of 10 has seen a million examples of his work.
Gary Larson is a Genius.And I feel like a genius for reading and understanding his comics.The introduction is by Robin Williams. Robin Williams talk like the way Gary Larson draws and writes. Gary Larson comes up with zany ideas just like Robin Williams would do improv. I would have seen good money to see those two geniuses at the same place.
Just as good as the Volume 1 and 3 (the library didn't have volume 2 when I was there last).This volume was introduced by Robin Williams. So...kind of nutty; but it didn't really detract at all from the humor Larson presented.
These cartoons are simply classic. Last week, i came across this book again and just had to sit down and go through it. Gary Larson still completely cracks me up. These are fantastic cartoons that still speak to my funny bone.
Mr. Larson has created another collection of masterpieces. His wonderful witty humor hits close to my childhood years, and I love it. His ingenuity of turning a simple scene into a joke deserves many an award.
