https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/247151.The_Baby_in_the_Icebox_and_Other_Short_Fiction
This volume collects sketches, dialogues, short stories and a serial, some of which have never been published.
As a whole, not very well.The first third of the book is made up of the aforementioned sketches and dialogues - short pieces and one-act plays.
These pieces would be of scholarly interest to someone who wanted to see Cain’s writing mature over time.The collection of short stories is the strongest part of the book.
It’s like Lou Reed singing a children’s song or Edvard Munch coming up with a connect-the-dots book.Back in the day, magazines published some stories as serials.
Double Indemnity was originally a serial.
The book is divided into three sections: Sketches and Dialogues,Short Stories, Serial.
It Breathed, based on a true experience Cain had on the battlefield in WWI was intense and poignant.In the Short Story section, another WWI experience contributed to The Taking Of Montfaucon and shows us just how frustrating life on the front must have been.
As is written in one of the introductions: "...he had developed a style which enabled him to tell a story in about half the space required by the average novelist." Sometimes this is a very good idea, and I was impressed once again by the intensity and atmosphere of Cain's work.
Poe’s definition of the short story remains as true today as when he wrote it: “a story is a thing that can be read in one sitting.” If he were writing today he might rephrase it: “…in one hour on the tread mill.”Roy Hoopes, the writer of the introduction to this collection of short stories and one novella states that Cain was essentially a writer of short fiction.
Cain himself wrote, “In one respect … it [the short story] is greatly superior to the novel, or at any rate, the American novel.”Cain was from Maryland and most of his early work was placed in the East.
Cain, hardboiled writer most famous for THE POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS TWICE, MILDRED PIERCE, and DOUBLE INDEMNITY, never thought of himself as a gifted writer of long fiction.
He thought short works were his forte.
Here, selected from pieces written largely (but not exclusively) during the early days of his career, are several examples of just how fine a short fiction writer he was.
As his confidence as a writer increases, though, (coincidental with his transplantation from East Coaster to West Coaster), Cain really comes into his own.
Crime, violence, and the hardbitten life of drifters and grifters are wonderfully revealed and explored in these pieces written with the brassy ring of truth.
Read this sometime in the 1980's.Contents: • “The Baby in the Icebox,” The American Mercury, January 1933. • “The Birthday Party,” Ladies Home Journal, May 1936. • “Brush Fire,” Liberty Magazine, December 5, 1936 • “Coal Black,” Liberty Magazine, April 3, 1937. • “Dead Man,” The American Mercury, March 1936. • “The Girl in the Storm,” Liberty Magazine, January 6, 1940. • “Joy Ride to Glory.” • “Pastorale,” The American Mercury, March 1928. • “The Taking of Montfaucon,” The American Mercury, June 1929. = NOTE: The British edition (Robert Hale, hc, 1982) adds one story: • The Embezzler. Avon, 1944.
Sure, you can get some early stuff and some later stuff, but these materials are rarely in one book.
And if you’re a fan of James M Cain as I am – and I am guessing you are since you are reading this – then you’ll want to grab this book – you’ll get informative introductions that are just long enough to be interesting, some early material that is actually lots of fun and intriguing, and a couple of handfuls of short stories and a short novel as well – who could ask for anything more?
This particular collection is an excellent primer on the scope of Cain's writing, being split into three sections of form: dialogues, short stories, and one serial novella.
What is interesting is that Cain did not set out to write honest, emotional dialogue-laden fiction per se.
The result are stories and dialogues that don't come across as fictions necessarily, but honest, imperfect recollections, most wonderfully perhaps in the story that gives the collection its name.The collection ends with a serial novella, a style that Cain did not have any artistic appreciation for, but simply used to pay the bills, much like a serious actor doing some light, mindless blockbuster.
Crime "Noir" Fiction - short storiesThanks to Good Reader Debbie for mentioning this book.
An unforgettable, hair raising title -- I HAD to read it, and quickly!In the 1930's and 1940's, James M.
Cain wrote "The Postman Always Rings Twice", "Double Indemnity", "Serenade" and "Mildred Pierce".
I hadn't realized those superb classic movies were originally penned by this author.The stories are OK, a selection from throughout his career.
This winner has the psychological suspense of "Postman" and "Double Indemnity" (which I've watched 6-8 times).Going now to Listopia to see if Good Reads has a Best Title Ever, and if so, vote for this book!
James M. Cain fans should be thrilled to catch his shorter works like "Joy Ride", "The Girl In The Storm", and the terrific "Money And The Woman aka The Embezzler". There's some real gems here!
This is a collection of short works of James M.
Cain.
He is the author of the stories on which the films noir "The Postman Always Rings Twice", "Double Indemnity", and "Mildred Pierce" are based.
The small biography of him in the prologue was interesting, but I didn't find the stories to be so.
They start with a number of dialogs, which are four page conversations.
It seemed like a writer's exercise to practice writing in various local vernaculars.
After that was a number of short stories, generally about twenty pages in length.
I didn't find the first two very interesting, so I gave up.
I had read some of Cain's fiction before but had never read his dialogue pieces before. I found them to be interesting but was definitely more drawn to the longer works. Will be looking for more to read soon.
Artigiano dentroSerie di racconti la cui efficacia risiede nel malessere generato dalle angolazioni con le quali Cain riprende le sue storie, i suoi personaggi, così distanti dalle leziosità accademiche, essenziali, loro e le loro azioni, atte a mostrare gente alle prese con i problemi della gente, meno fortunati di alcuni ma più interessanti di altri.Cain, un prezioso artigiano.
These stories, while grounded in their time and place, are concurrently timeless and universal expositions on humanity and the human condition.
A passage of particular note in "The Taking of Montfaucon" is one of the most moving descriptions of the battlefield experience I've ever read.
"The first [dead man:] we seen was in a trench, kind of laying up against the side,what was on a slant.
And he was sighting down his gun just like he was getting ready to pull the trigger, and when you come to him you opened your mouth to beg his pardon for bothering him.
His novels and serials, the Embezzler included in this anthology, are amazing. His shorter fiction leaves me feeling unfulfilled. I would highly recommend any of his novels, or at least the most famous ones, such as Postman, Double Indemnity, Mildred Pierce, etc. The titular story in this anthology was made into a movie as well, but the story is farfectched and borders on ridiculous. Stick with his longer works and you wont be disappointed.
This is a book of short stories. I bought the hardcover. Never having read any of Cain's short stories it was a pleasure for me. Most were written before he wrote his first novel, "The Postman Always Rings Twice." The stories are not as impressive as his better known novels. I gave this book 4 stars because they're written clearly, clear and simple, which makes for a lesson in writing for writers.
This book of short fiction (short stories, dialogues and a novella) was ok but disappointing to me as Cain is one of my favorite authors. Like "Sinful Woman" which I read and reviewed recently, it can't hold a candle to Cain's classics. I don't consider this book noir which may be one reason that I was disappointed.
Some short stories, even shorter sketches, and one serialized novella. Many are in the first person, the narrator being an uneducated hick, you should pardon the expression. The assortment gives you an indication of life during the Depression and soon after.
On page 68
I remember finishing this collection very quickly and realizing just what a masterful storyteller James Cain was
One star for The Embezzler, the serial at the end, one for the title story, and one for good luck. Some of the shorter stuff just ain't as good.
For hardcore noir fans, this book is a delight. Lots of stories by Cain that I was not aware of. Not all are great, but all are worth a read.
Like cold, sharp diamonds followed by shots of tequila.
Nice review of the art of writing. Do people even write this kind of stuff today?
This book sucked.
The writer of the greatest opening line in pulp fiction - looking at the process that got him there via short stories.
Holy crap. there is actually a hard-boiled crime story titled, "the baby in the icebox." That is hilarious. I have to read this.
