https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/497121.Memoirs_Found_in_a_Bathtub
In the very first paragraph our disoriented narrator tells us he can’t locate the proper room amid multiple levels of departments and offices in this Pentagon-like Building as he attempts to press through crowds of marching military personnel, disguised agents and preoccupied secretaries.
For the more I turned the pages, the more I had the feeling special agent Undereavesdropper Blassenkash (in Chapter 2 he answers to this title and name) is trapped in a building filled with a stream of Mad Hatters spouting sheer indecipherable nonsense.
The protagonist of this mad world is a nameless person, most likely a man who's spy adventures and misadventures we follow throughout the building.
He attempts to unravel the mystery but he cannot, as everyone is a spy like him, on a senseless mission to keep everyone occupied.At the end of the book (view spoiler)[he finds a man he once met, dead in a bathtub.
(hide spoiler)].____________________________________________________________ What does it all mean??When I say that there is no spoon, I mean that the point of this book is that there is no meaning.
Kafka on ProzacMemoirs Found in a Bathtub by Stanslaw Lem follows the adventures of an agent-in-training as he wanders in search of a mission through the vast bureaucracy of a purposeless intelligence agency.The agent is anonymous.
Ostensibly, the agency is the post-apocalyptic remnant of America, but it feels entirely European.The theme of the Memoirs is that one's search for individual identity (i.e. the mission) is distracted by reflections of the self in other people.
In this respect, Lem writes like Kafka on Prozac - with clearer ideas, faster pace, and more fun.
This book blew my mind.
I had to scream after I put it down!
It is the story of a man who doesn't know his mission, who is on the outside of an inside joke.
Or maybe they just make up their jobs and go about doing them-there is no way to know.This book is a tragedy in the sense that it is a comedy about someone who ultimately fails.
In comedy, the hero always succeeds at the end, in greek theater.Highbrow science fiction, so far beyond genre that it is actually literature.
With the Futurological Congress the most outlandish and grotesque novel of Lem i have read and perha
this book is fucked up.
i don't usually say that about books but this one is wicked fucked up.
i listened to an audiobook version that left the introduction out and that made it even weirder.
i listened to most of this on a train in germany and at the end of the trip i wanted to throw myself on the tracks.
Küvette Bulunan Günce, Stanlislaw Lem'in gelecekten gelen bir labirent tasviri.
(view spoiler)[ Çok uzak gelecekte arkeologlar tarafından bulunan bir güncenin kahramanının ağzından dinleriz hikayeyi.
Gizli görevini almak için olayların geçeceği binaya giriş yapan kahramanımız ilk iş olarak görevin ne olduğunu öğrenmek ister.
Bir süre biz okuyucu da görevin ne olduğunu merak etmeyi bırakıp bu labirentin paranoya uyandıran yapısına odaklanırız.
Kahramanımız bu sözde görev sayesinde kendisini önemli hissetmeye başlar ama kafası da bu karışıklık içinde bulanmaya başlar.
Kendisini önemli hisseden kahramanımız bir süre sonra depresif bir ruh hali içerisine bürünür.
Ya kendisi herhangi bir görev verilmeye bile layık olmayan önemsiz biriyse?
En iyi kitap finali bile seçilebilir.
‘Memoirs Found in a Bathtub’ is a strange novel, but its strangeness feels somehow familiar.
It would probably also remind me of Kafka’s The Trial, if I’d read it.
By this point almost all paper has been obliterated by an epidemic of some sort, so historians struggle to understand what was going just on much as the narrator does.The narrative has considerable momentum, closely resembling an anxiety dream in which you’re late, lost, and obscurely to blame for something.
I adored this piece from start to finish. Lem (or his translators) have a grasp on prose that wows and flows. This absurdist satire had me laughing and cringing throughout as the nearly 40-year-old piece rings true as a bell to contemporary themes of espionage, privacy, and deception. The story attempts to detail the complex interworking of an institution so mired in secrecy and insecurity that trust, truth, and deception swirl together in a miasma of confusion and paranoia such that any occurrence, no matter how subtle or seemingly unintentional must be a code or sign.
This is the most dreamlike book I ever remember reading. Or nightmare like. A study in bureaucracy and paranoia. Including coded camouflage and artificial body parts and much much more. My American paperback is from 1971 but apparently the original is from 1961.
A labyrinth of a book, a twisted gnarl of agents, double agents, codes and flies in the coffee. A look at the paranoia of a bygone age.
Ostensibly written in 3149, the prologue introduces the "memoirs" as having been found in a bathtub in an ancient underground military-like facility destroyed by a volcanic eruption roughly 1600 years previous to their find.
The prologue dwells on a cataclysmic event in earlier millennia in which a virus, accidentally introduced by space travelers returning from one of the moons of Uranus, destroyed all of the paper on Earth and all of humanity's knowledge, bringing chaos, anarchy and a new Dark Age. The memoirs and their discovery are mentioned almost as an afterthought.
Follow the confused and paranoia-driven encounters of a government agent as he navigates the exaggeratedly complex and ridiculous set of codes and regulations enforced by the other inhabitants of the edifice known simply as The Building.
Re-read it, but this time substitute "America" for "Ammer-Ka", and "race" for "Rayss" ;)Memoirs is a more complex book than much of Lem's other works, for example, The Futurological Congress, but the complexity of the novel itself serves an important function: to emphasise and share the lost confusion felt by the protagonist and also the structured but seemingly chaotic culture of The Building.
Pentagon in future, where every clerk is double, triple e.t.c spy, decadency of ending where is only construction "Paranoia as the last stage of militarism"
As a kid, I read and reread Lem's science fiction short story collection Tales of Pirx the Pilot.
That was my only exposure to Lem, although I did know that he was a highly respected author in several genres.Because of my love for Pirx, I really looked forward to picking up this slim novel.
Thank god this isn't the first thing I read by Lem, though, because damn.
This short little book took me 6 months to read, because I'd pick it up, go ten pages, and then put it down in favor of something more entertaining.Now, it's not hollow or pointless.
I keep seeing comments various places that "Lem is like Kafka." I've never read Kafka.
Throughout what we read, he is being taught that everything is code, and symbolic, and that everyone is a triple agent (or more, the wonders of illogical math).
So is what we're reading anything close to what he experienced?
The writing meanders much like the protagonist is - never seeing the light of day, barely stopping for cafeteria mac and cheese, and trying to find what the mission even is in the first place.
Memoirs Found in a Bathtub is supposedly a manuscript from sometime in our future, found even further in the future, which describes life in the Third Pentagon, known to the narrator only as "the Building." But it's obvious that the plot, such as it is, is not really what Lem is interested in.
The narrator tries to figure it all out, but at one point realizes that "almost any sufficiently complex idea seemed to apply to the Building, to explain it...."This is not an easy read; it's certainly not an entertaining little science fiction story.
This is a wonderful little book, though it is clearly not for everyone (Sword & Laser folk, you know what I'm talking about).However, if you are a fan of Lem's other work, this will almost certainly delight you.
It reminded me strongly of a short story out of The Cyberiad, and also of the TV series The Prisoner (original, please, not the AMC remake).The framing device makes it science fiction (the title is literal, a far-future historian discovers the memoir in a bathtub in some ruins), but the meat of the story takes place in the "present day," which is to say, late twentieth-century America as seen from the perspective of Russia in 1973.
This book is interesting to say the least.
I have never been the BIGGEST fan of his work, but I always keep going back to his books!!!
As this is my dad's favorite book, and in my opinion Stanislaw Lem's best work, I think it deserves 4.5 stars (but I can't actually give it that, can I?).
Anyway, it takes place in Stanislaw Lem's dystopian future ( as usual), and depicts a government with immense power.
This, combined with Lem's rather strange style, made me instantly enthralled with this book.
I think everyone should read this book, because it is absolutely fabulous!!
Otras obras son Retorno de las estrellas, Fábulas de robots, Ciberíada y memorias encontradas en una bañera, obra que nos ocupa esta reseña.Hablando ya del libro, Carlo Frabetti, en la presentación lo califica como una farsa utópica, es decir que el autor se imagina un futuro remoto (3146) en donde la ciencia y tecnología es inimaginable para nosotros.
Pero qué papel juega el Pentágono militar en esto, ah es que un arqueólogo del futuro llamado Wid-Wiss descubrió tras 27 años de dura labor un refugio hermético en las montañas rocosas, una gran pieza convexa y circular de metal, la entrada al tercer Pentágono y allí descubrió un rollo de papyr bajo esqueletos humanos encapsulados en lava petrificada.
No me malentiendan: ni es un mal libro ni la edición ha dejado de ser magnífica; es solo que no da lo que prometía la descripción, que era la razón primaria que me atrajo.
Además, la traducción desde el polaco de esta edición está hecha en español argentino (lo cual es lógico porque la editorial es de allí), que es muy similar al neutro pero que añade a la dificultad de trasladar las lenguas eslavas algunos dejes que, aunque comprensibles, resultan cacofónicos al castellanoparlante (como es mi caso); no está mal ni es signo de incipiente xenofobia en mi interior, pero me choca.Pensé que estaba llamado a ocupar un escalón de mi podio mental, pero fui engañado por una descripción ladina en la contracubierta; mi corazón se encaminaba a darle cinco estrellas, pero la conciencia me obliga a rebajárselas.
Bu, bir yerdən sonra elə bir hal alır ki, obrazımızın gizli tapşırığının nə olması ilə bağlı marağımızı itiririk, bizi daha çox bina cəmiyyətinin həyatı, onların paranoyası, yaşadıqları distopik quruluş və onun mexanizmi maraqlandırır.
Qədim insanların düşünmə bacarığı əldə etdikdən sonra ətraflarında baş verənlərə məna yükləməsi və yüklədiyi bir çox mənada nə qədər yanıldığını uzun müddət başa düşməməsi, özünü daima bütün baş verənlərin mərkəzinə yerləşdirmə cəhdləri kimi mövzular və onların Lem üslubunda tənqidi, eləcə də, linqvistika və semantika sahələrində yazarın parlaq düşüncələri romanda öz əksini tapır.Yazardan üç kitab oxuduqdan sonra gəldiyim qənaətə görə, Lem qarşısında bir xeyli səbrli və diqqətli oxucu görmək istəyir.
Δεν είναι το κλασικό βιβλίο επιστημονικής φαντασίας, σαν σκηνικό έχουμε το Συγκρότημα που είναι ένα πολυόροφο, δαιδαλώδες, γεμάτο χιλιάδες διαδρόμους, πόρτες, δωμάτια και γραφεία, κτίριο, και το οποίο είναι κάτω από το έδαφος, θυμίζει αυτά τα τεράστια δημόσια κτίρια σε δυστοπικές κοινωνίες, κάπως έτσι τέλος πάντων.
Καθώς ψάχνει το καθοδηγητικό πλάνο, συναντά ένα κάρο άλλους πράκτορες, διπλούς, τριπλούς, τετραπλούς και δεν συμμαζεύεται, ο ένας τον στέλνει σε άλλο τομέα του Συγκροτήματος κάθε φορά, από το ένα γραφείο στο άλλο, γραφεία γεμάτα απασχολημένες γραμματείς και περίεργους αξιωματικούς, μπερδεύοντας κατά πολύ τον ίδιο και εμάς τους αναγνώστες.
Ο τύπος με αυτά που τραβάει, με τους δαιδαλώδης διαδρόμους, τα χιλιάδες δωμάτια, τους άλλους πράκτορες που παίζουν παιχνίδια, αρχίζει να τρελαίνεται - και μεις το ίδιο.
There are things to like about this book, but I'm not going to be able to enumerate them.
Eh. I had to stop asking questions and just let it be.On top of the not-being-for-me, and probably because I was not engrossed in what was happening enough to fail to notice such things, there as two examples of "fat people are gross and probably evil", one example of "should I rape this girl?", and zero female characters.Great reading if you're looking for fuel for your Parnoia RPG game (or are into everything-is-conspiracies-and-madness), but I didn't enjoy it.
ιδιόρρυθμο βιβλίο πραγματικά...παραθέτει άλλη μια από τις τόσες διαφορετικές μελλοντολογίες και εκδοχές για την διάβρωση της ιστορίας της ανθρωπότητας, εν συνεχεία του πολιτισμού της και εν τέλη της ολοκληρωτικής καταστροφής της.
συγχέει παρελθόν και μέλλονκαι την ατομιστική παράνοια της εκάστοτε άρχουσας κυβέρνησης.ωραίος ο Lem...με χιούμορ και αλληγορία απαντάει σε μεγάλα φιλοσοφικά ερωτήματα..unusual book really ...sets out another of the many different versions for futurology and the corrosion of human history, then its culture and the end of complete destruction of humanity.confuses past and futureindividualistic and insanity of each ruling government.the lovely Lem ...with humor and allegory responds to major philosophical questions ..
It's kind of a Kafka's The Castle or Beckett's Waiting for Godot for the cold war set.
Lem explores themes of authenticity, the nature of knowable reality, and epistemology sometimes through actual discussion of these topics but mostly through the symbolism of the characters and their actions.I liked it and you might like it, but I feel like I've seen an existential/nihilistic Alice in Wonderland done better by other authors.
Be prepared for 40 page sections of what amount to, essentially, parable about the futility of discovering objective meaning and reality through the human lens, while no discernible actions occur to advance the plot.
Lem does it again!.....
wowie!!!Frustrated, as you can sense when reading that the original Polish has a great deal more puns and double-meanings, humorous and thematically significant play-on-words which is lost in the English....
that being said, the translators(Michael Kandel and Christine Rose) of my edition did a great job, and much of the humor and wordplay still came thru.Lem over and over secures his status as one of my favorite writers, and Memoirs Found in a Bathtub is no exception.I look forward to continuing to think about this book a great deal into the future.
This is a seriously weird book, but I liked it. It's not as profound as Solaris, not quite as funny as The Cyberiad, and has less of a plot than The Futurological Congress. The absurd bureaucracy is really funny, but it does occasionally get old, which I suppose is part of the point. Everybody's spying on everybody and nobody's quite sure who they're working for, which makes for an amusing premise as well as a meditation on the paranoia of the Cold War (and maybe today).
Lem has created the ultimate espionage world, an enclosed system where papers guarded from a mysterious space-born plight become the crazed focus of insanely guarded non-secrets. "Memoirs found in a bathtub" brilliantly captures the emotion of the cold-war, for readers looking for a book to disturb their mental stability need look no further.
Stanislaw Lem is one of the most intellectual and clever writers I have ever read. Like Douglas Adams with a couple extra PhD's. Anyway, sometimes he is too clever for his own good, or gets wrapped up in his cybernetic fairy tells. Some of his stuff literally blows me away, other works of his are a real chore to read. I let you decide about this one. It deals with a virus from outer space that eats paper. Sort of like a shotgun wedding for the paperless society!
