https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12401556-the-age-of-miracles
I think the more honest phrasing would have been: "That was the last time I ate strawberries this spring." Because as long as the earth spins and she is alive, she can't truly know that she will NEVER eat strawberries again.
It made me think that the girl or the world were going away.
It's a book I will think of for some time.
As a writer myself of speculative, trippy fiction -- I am in the process of analyzing the many things this book did right!
* I love speculative fiction like this.
They take you by the hand and pull you into their world." -- Girl Who Reads blogwww.DwightOkita.com
2.5This is yet another rating I really struggled with because, though I can't say I really enjoyed it, the novel is beautifully written in a very evocative way that makes you want to write down a quote every few pages. But it comes back to that whole writing vs story matter that has stopped me from giving many prettily-worded books a high rating.The dystopian aspect of The Age of Miracles creeps in slowly and in a mostly subtle and non-threatening manner. Basically, the normal 24 hour day begin
But it comes back to that whole writing vs story matter that has stopped me from giving many prettily-worded books a high rating.The dystopian aspect of The Age of Miracles creeps in slowly and in a mostly subtle and non-threatening manner.
I read this novel feeling like no one was in any real peril and that the most tragic event was that Julia - the eleven year old narrator - grew apart from her best friend.I guess that the intention of the author was to show the subtle effects to lives when people experience fear and uncertainty.
Starts off well but quickly fizzles into a pretty benign coming of age story. Also, while I'm not necessarily a stickler for hard science in my sci fi, it seemed like the author was too lazy to research the actual effects of the Earth slowing and just ignores the basic laws of the physical sciences. So much so that it really did take away from the story. The whole apocalypse angle was incidental and unnecessary to the plot. A bland story all dressed up with nowhere to go.
The ARE volume I read includes no explanation for why the earth’s rotation suddenly begins slowing.
[Unless of course, I am an older, blinder coot that I realized, and just missed it] I have read that the cause was supposed to have been a large earthquake, but it is possible that that was edited out.In any case we have parallel story lines here.
Even in a slowed down earth, one would expect that science would still be able to predict such events and offer public notice.
Really enjoyed this book. The characters were believable and yes the slowing of the earth was believable too. One can only imagine the horrors of this happening for real, but the thing is, you CAN see the possibility of this scenario. You really get to feel how scary it would be. Well written, would definitely recommend.
I think I am exactly the wrong audience for this book.
I read a lot of science fiction, see, and this book is very much trying to do science fiction without the science fiction.
And so my inclination is to want the book to explore at least some of the science behind what's going on, and the steadfast half-refusal to do so is irritating.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
But some books get inside your head, altering how you see your own life, even as you are reading them.
And at the end, it became apparent that there was to be no main story-line, apart from The Slowing, and how it effected everyone and everything over the course of a year.
Maybe she thought that The Slowing was story enough in itself.
Had there been another narrative, a main storyline running through the book, I think The Miracle of Ages would have been a 5 star rating.But even as it is, I would highly recommend it, especially to anyone with an interest in science or the environment.
Nobody knows why the earth's rotation has slowed, but Julia is eleven the day this discovery is announced on the news, with varying degrees of panic.At first the effect is subtle, resulting in a few extra minutes each day, but before long there is a worldwide dilemma on how to handle the growing length of days--and there is much debate whether to follow the 24-hour clock time of old, or to establish "real time" that coincides with each new solar day.
You can't read a major newspaper these days without coming across an article touting the demise of the book world as we know it.
Frequent sentences with "It was the last time we..." or "We never...again..." steal the immediacy of the disaster.Now that I've read several published reviews, let me dispel the widespread notion this story is told from the point of view of an 11-year old narrator, Julia.
Which changes everything this book is suggested to be - a coming of age story, a unique perspective of a young girl as the world begins a slow collapse around her.
Had the author truly wanted us to live in Julia's moment, she would have let the little girl speak in her own voice, not via the sophisticated redaction presented by her adult self.
I'm always wishing for more hours in the day.More time to spend with family.Time to finish all those stupid craft projects I've started over the years.An extra hour or two to set aside just for reading.But the slowing of the earth's rotation to gain more time...that's not exactly what I had in mind.In 2010, I watched a show called Aftermath: When the Earth Stops Spinning on the National Geographic channel.
Most plants and animals could not survive six months of dark, frigid night.In this book, we meet Julia, a sixth grader who awakens one morning to discover that each day is now about an hour and a half longer than it used to be.
I had a general idea of what to expect with Karen Thompson Walker's meandering, character and thought-driven novel about the end of the world, but I had no idea how bittersweetly she could spin this science fiction-adjacent tale of change, hope, young love, and death.
Walker has a gift for striking descriptions and a unique way with words, one easily lent to creating atmosphere and tension within the novel (from the ARC, page 8: "We did not sense at first the extra time, bulging from the smooth edge of each day like a tumor blooming beneath skin.") Her style fits this loosely apocalyptic story; the focus is not on the extreme events that happen as a result of the slowing (like "solar superstorms" or "gravity sickness"), nor in finding/explaining the cause for the change, but rather on the effects of the aforementioned on Julia and her family.
When John Donne wrote "Busy old fool, unruly sun, Why dost thou thus?" he wasn't thinking of the end of the world.
But what if the earth began misbehaving so badly that it made the sun appear unruly indeed?
Julia narrates the story as an adult, looking back on that first year of "the slowing." It's a foregone conclusion that the world didn't end, because she's still alive many years later to tell the story.
We often see very little of what's happening in the world outside Julia's girlish set of concerns.
But Julia adapts to her new life, just as everyone must adapt to the changing hours.For a debut novel, the writing is lovely.
Maybe loneliness was imprinted in my genes, lying dormant for years but now coming into full bloom."As much as I enjoyed the book, the pace was so slow I think it might have been stronger if it had been edited down to the length of a short story.
It almost reminded me of the beauty behind Colson Whitehead's Zone One, another book that I thought was both beautifully written but extremely frustrating.So here are my reasons for loving this book:- this was a true coming-of-age novel- Thompson Walker did not shy away from themes of loneliness and ostracization that oftentimes comes with growing up- the death of the human race mimicked the death of the earth, which was also an analogy for that tumultuous period between the end of childhood and the start of adulthoodIt was a good story...if it had focused on the coming-of-age portion of the story, it probably would've been more successful.
Another book that didn't live up to the hype. I found this so incredibly slow and boring. The plot sounds fantastic but the delivery of the story really had very little impact on me.As the world moves off kilter and the days get longer, chaos descends. But the book didn't give me that sense of doom, darkness, fear, end of the world as we know it feelings. I'm not going to dig much more out of my brain for this review. It's not worth it. Very disappointed in this one. This could of been really amazing, it just wasn't.
feel, a sense, to all these books written by all these graduates, as though they were opening up the same writing manuals, and diligently copying things out.
Of course, the background and setting of the story are mere literary devices, because real writers, ahem, write books about people, but in actuality, in science-fiction, the settings are also literary devices, and the authors tend to do better with them.I don't actually want to put words into the author's mouth when I have in fact no real clue what she may be thinking of sci-fi, but even if she loves it and admires it, her approach seems a touch naive, and very 'magical'.
The book is told through the eyes of a 11-year-old Californian girl, Julia, as the earth's rotation starts to slow and the days and the nights get longer.
I thought that the imagination and predictions about what might happen if the earth's rotation slowed was believable and this made the book scary.
Along with this, Julia still has to deal with being a lonely almost teenager and all the social problems that go along with that.
I am kind of a geek about the end of the world books and this one does not disappoint.
Oh. No. With the pacing of Chinese water torture, a tale told with as much credulity and cleverness as a Donald Trump tweet.
Walker uses the bones and framework in a sufficiently anonymous and distant and yet precise enough way for anyone with the slightest experience to recognize it, fill in the gaps, and move on.And you should move on because the book is also a metaphor for the coming-of-age of the pre-teen narrator of the novel, an explicit metaphor for the seemingly inexplicable changes of middle school, both physical and mental:  “..
This set-up should prove for a more than fertile ground for a fascinating work of speculative fiction - but The Age of Miracles isn't so.The focus falls on the 11 year old narrator, Julia, who goes through all the troubles of growing up, first crushes and dealing with her parents' troubled marriage, as the earth slows down into a pace which will stretch the days and nights into years, making it uninhabitable.
I would rate it around 2,5 stars - certainly not worth a million dollars, as science fiction fans are bound to walk away disappointed and those preferring coming of age stories will find little if anything which they had not read before in this slim and vapid tale.
I was drawn to this book as a kind of "apocalyptic fiction" (when we come to the "end of the world" how will people adapt and carry on?) but it was more of a YA-type coming of age book.The book is told from the point of view of 12 year old Julia who lives in San Diego when the earth's rotation slowly begins to slow down.
As the days (and nights) start to expand it means that sometimes people have to do normal "daylight" activities during the dark - say, for example, soccer practice, which is held at 3 PM every day.
I loved this book. It was such a unique story, and I really love books that delve into the "what if this happened to the world" realm without going full dystopian.This book answers the question of what would happen if the earth's rotation slowed down. The changes come quickly, and I love how this book addressed the physical, environmental, social, political and personal impacts that would have both on the grand scale and for individuals. I couldn't stop listening. I had to know what would happen. Who would survive. I just wish there was more.
I started listening to this book on Audible, and I can highly recommend the audio - the narrator was very good.
However, I got so into the story that when my husband came home from the store with a copy of the book, I quickly put the audio down and dug in to the print.
When I started the book, I expected it to be another work of dystopian fiction.
There were times when I rewound the audio to hear a sentence again or reread a passage in the book because the language was hauntingly beautiful.
The Age of Miracles details eleven-year-old Julia's coming of age in a California suburb amidst the decline of the earth.
In the middle of the chaos Julia comes to terms with the imperfections of her parents, the pains of an awkward adolescence, and her feelings for Seth Moreno, the boy down the street.Karen Thompson Walker does not focus so much on the science behind the earth's slowing or the slowing's disastrous consequences.
This novel serves as a thoughtful, introspective into a young girl's life but not a wholly satisfying portrait.A quick book I would recommend to fans of quiet, slow-moving, and reflective novels.
This was either a YA book and I didn't realize it, or it was written for an undemanding audience.
Nevertheless, it came at a time when I really needed a short, captivating and mild read.
You know, a stress reliving book for the middle of the night.
And for an apocalypse novel, this was as chilled out as it gets.The world is slowing down.
Like school.Then a few other things happen to the earth and it's all told through the eyes of a twelve year old with troubled parents and a loneliness that rivals that of the desolate and disintegrating world.
The day-lengthening concept and all that the author described with it - coping, survival, etc. - were interesting. I think the (view spoiler)[real timers vs Clock timers (hide spoiler)]was a bit overdone, but still interesting. The main storyline with Julia, her family, and her friends was never all that interesting to me, though - just okay - kind of felt forced in to the Slowing instead of feeling like a smooth and integral part of everything.
The world is slowing down, days are getting longer and people continue to live their lives. I kept reading, hoping something would happen or some great insight would be revealed.Meh. Not sure why this book is getting so much buzz. It could be read (perhaps should be read) by young adults since the main character is 11 going on 12, but even most teens who've read Life As We Know It, would be puzzled. I guess I suspect to feel something or learn something when reading a book. Disappointed on both counts. I'm going to re-read the Pfeffer books.
Because the blurb, the cover and the tagline make it seem all "Oh no, the world is ending, however will these two generic 15-16 year old white kids make their miraculous love work?" In reality, this is a book about a 23 year old woman reminiscing about what happened when the Earth's rotation started to slow.
Like, still a middle grader.
But the upper end of middle grade.
It feels middle grade.
And yet it was at something like the 75% mark that she actually started spending time with this kid.
Interessante gedachte: de aarde gaat steeds langzamer draaien. Welke consequenties heeft dat voor de planeet en haar bewoners? Tof ook dat het met een terugkijkende blik verteld wordt, hierdoor komen zinnen als 'This was the last time I ever..' hard binnen. Maar: tm pagina 300 had ik het gevoel een inleiding te lezen. Het plot bevat een interessant gedachte-experiment maar is daarnaast behoorlijk vlak. Het einde wist me wel te ontroeren, maar was tegelijkertijd ietwat onbevredigend.Mijn complete recensie lees je op Oog op de Toekomst.
Beautifully written story, from a young adult perspective, of facing the fears and changes to her own personal world as the world itself changes. I look forward to more from Karen Thompson Walker.
