https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/462373.The_Time_Traders
This book is fine for what it is--a fast-paced, time-travel pulp fiction.
I'm not familiar with Andre Norton or 1950s sci-fi pulp, so I don't know if this is standard in the genre.
I didn't though because it's a book club pick, but probably wouldn't have if I'd read on my own.Andre Norton has been on my priority list for a long time now, but I never knew where to start with her backlist.
Although this book wasn't the right choice as an intro to her work, I'm still interested and will most likely pick up one of her Witch World books next time when the mood for a genre classic strikes.
Executive Summary: I'm not a great gauge for Science Fiction, especially older works as I generally don't read and enjoy it as much as fantasy. There were elements here I liked, but not enough ever really get into the story. I considered giving this a 2.5 and rounding up, but opted to just stick to 2. Full Review Of all the science fiction tropes, time travel has always been one of my favorite. Back to the Future, Doctor Who, Looper, Primer, Terminator among others. You'll notice though that all
Executive Summary: I'm not a great gauge for Science Fiction, especially older works as I generally don't read and enjoy it as much as fantasy.
Of all the science fiction tropes, time travel has always been one of my favorite.
I read the revised edition of this book.
I have no idea how much was revised, but the story itself didn't feel that dated.
I'm glad to have given it a shot, and I'm not ruling out trying another story by Ms. Norton in the future, but I'm not rushing out for it, and likely won't read the second story that came with the first one.
Rating: 3.5* of fiveGeneric, underdeveloped character of The Rebellious Charmer gets One Last Chance to fix it all. I understand why an adolescent would love this story. I liked it, too, and adolescence was 40-plus years ago for me. In today's bajillion-pages-of-blather world, the spare prose and laconic dialogue are not fashionable. They're stylish, though, and fun, and if one can get past the real weakness of that bygone era's storytelling (flat characters) there is simple pleasure to be had in this tale.
Classic tales like this one from Andre Norton remind me why I fell in love with science fiction in the first place: stories take place on strange worlds and new technology is met with wonder, not suspicion.Characters aren't as complex (read: deep) as many in today's best-sellers, but who cares?
Heck, I was willing to accept Harrison Ford as a two-fisted action hero in 'Indiana Jones and the Crystal Skull' too.Part two in this novel introduces a new character who ends up joining the gang on an accidental galactic ride aboard a 10,000 year old (?) UFO.
I don't know how many times I have read this book, but it just gets better with time. It has been some years since last reading it, and I had forgotten the story line. I loved being able to read a book that was new but old at the same time. :D I love almost all the books that Andre Norton has written.
This was one of my favorite science-fiction books when I was a kid.
My brothers and I read it over and over.
Of course, the cold war setting is now an anachronism, but for us it was everyday reality.
I loved the characters, I loved the story, I loved the imagery.
When we were really exhausted from a long day outdoors, my brother James would say "The red jelly!
We need the red jelly!" And of course we'd know exactly what he meant.I haven't read it for years.
(I don't remember who published the hardcover I first read.
Anyway, someone long gone.)
This was not the Andre Norton book I wanted to read. This book borrows from the past, not improving much on the Edgar Rice Burroughsliterary invent of a modern man in a pre-modern society (John Carter). This time instead of a magical cave, Norton uses a time travel plate. I hope this is not representative of Norton's style, rather writing for the literary market of the 1950s with its "go it alone" main protagonist against the "Reds"
This story lacks only interest and a good plot. 0 of 10 stars
A slightly revised edition of a book originally published back in the good old pulp days.
The overall story had some good ideas and it's not bad, but unfortunately it follows a formula that gets old really quickly if you have read enough of them.
It goes something like this:Protagonist is thrown into an unusual situation.Gets captured by tribe A, but then escapes.Gets captured by tribe B but escapes again...
repeat several times ..Is facing certain death from tribe C but is then rescued by an ally he befriended at the beginning while escaping from tribe A.
Burroughs was the master of this and even his books get weary after a time.
I finished it.
This is a classic book by the classic Science Fiction and Fantasy writer, Andre Norton.
This ebook consisted of the title story and its sequel, Galactic Derelict, the first written in 1958, the second in 1959, and both updated in 2000.
In Time Traders, it seemed that she was writing with a sequel in mind, and it was mainly a coming-of-age story about Ross Murdock, with too little Science Fiction and too much jungle fighting.
In Galactic Derelict, the four main characters go though several adventures, but I never get a sense that any of them wouldn't make it through.
Let's send criminals back in time to steal alien technology to end the Cold War! Dang. I almost made it sound interesting.
'The Time Traders' by Andre Norton is a time travel book.
I'm usually a sucker for those sort of stories, but this one felt a bit too tied to the time it was written.It's the Cold War, and the US and Russia have discovered time travel.
Even though he is beat up, he continues to prevail.The "Russians" are shadowy bad guys who we barely see.
The whole Cold War setting of this book just seemed to place it in a specific time, and the novel felt a bit too much like a men's adventure novel from the 1970s.
A free download for Kindle of a classic novel.
I knew nothing about this story but I certainly know of Norton and have read some of her work in the past.
And it turns out the secret mission involves time travel into the past to find out why the Russians have seemingly come upon new technologies they shouldn't have.
Murdock is on his first mission into the past and he discovers the source of the Russians' technologies - a derelict alien space craft.
But the second book doesn't seem to be available (or I may have to do some more digging around).
Mostly bland Cold-War-infused time travel thriller/adventure with mediocre characters, mediocre writing and not too much exciting done with the science-fiction concepts.
For instance, a tip for Russian time travel agents who want to kill an enemy agent: (view spoiler)[if you posses a gun, shoot the enemy in the head.
Do not, as in this book, instead plan to make them die of cold by leaving them alone in a hole in the ice that's a) not too deep for them to thrash their way out of and b) conveniently close enough to your local time time travel portal for them to use that (simply by falling into it) once they've wriggled out of the hole.
I'd compare this book to a Cold War-era version Time Salvager by Wesley Chu. Rather than agents time traveling to collect rare artifacts needed in a future society, it is to compete with the Russians, who are winning, in developing technology. The book was entertaining at times but all plot developments were brought on from pretty much the same problem cropping up time after time (the problem omitted for spoiler reasons). And that gets boring when it happens the third time. The free ebook version comes with the 2nd book in the series, but I'm not likely to continue.
Dated and extremely YA, the first half was pretty boring and the second half picked up well, seemed like a couple of long short stories sewn together to make a novel. Norton has skill to be sure, I would like to read something more adult from her.
3.5 rating
This is the first of Andre Norton's Time Traders series featuring Ross Murdock.
Published in 1958, it has a 50s Cold War sensibility which I found interesting.
It seems that the capitalist/communist rivalry is extending back into time and Ross has to foil a Soviet plot which would change history.
It was very interesting to me that, instead of going back to, say, Ancient Rome or the Civil War, he goes back to the Bronze Age in Europe of 2000 B.C. His job is to mimic a trader of the Beaker culture of that time.
I think that I picked this book up because it was on sale or free and I've been hearing about how great Andre Norton is for years.
It was a fun story and I can see why people enjoy this type of science fiction, heavy on action & adventure and...
The characters were good enough to keep me reading and the world-building was adequate.
I would certainly check out other Andre Norton books in the future, for a relatively light read, but I don't think I'll continue with this series.
Great adventure sci fi book. Looking forward to reading more of the series.
It's not something that really jumps off the shelf at you, and I think it's a bit of a poorly-titled novel in general.
But, anyway: for something so action-packed, it's certainly selling it short to think that it's about time-traveling traders - that sounds like an absolute dud.I used to wonder whatever I might do with an English major after I graduated from college (mind you: this is ten+ years ago now, while I've been working in information technology and writing boring stand operating procedures and work instructions and doing data entry and programming and etc.
The Russians are plotting something back in the time of the Beaker people (somewhere around 2,000 BCE in Great Britain).
Ross is sent back with a partner, Ashe, and they assimilate into the ancient culture while they investigate.I liked that there wasn't a damsel in distress or any silly female characters.
I didn't mind so much, as I expected this story to skip over everything fast.The main character, Ross, isn't very like-able.
It did seem like he adapted to the Beaker culture very easily, although there was a balance between Ross's successes and failings.
In  The Time Traders , Norton crafts a Cold War world in which both sides have discovered time travel.
He must take on the guise of a Beaker trader in his trial mission and try to blend in in a time that is not his own...but then his team discovers the biggest lead they've had ever on the Russians.This book was fantastic.
(hide spoiler)] but becomes friends with his colleagues and goes to great lengths to save them when necessary.Time travel is a tricky concept to work with, but Norton pulls it off smoothly.
So the premise is "The cold war expanded into the fourth dimension." (The book was written i 1958, so very topical)However, I did not much care for the the story.
However, the characters are little more paper thin, nowhere near developed enough to drive the story by themselves, and neither were the stakes or the machinations of the plot interesting enough to keep me invested.
Aside from a few rare pieces of dialogue, most of the book is descriptions of things happening, with no reason to care about any of it.It picked up a bit by the end, but that was really too little and too late to make a enough of a difference.
During the Cold War, writers used this subversive conflict as a base for literally thousands of novels.
The Time Traders combines science fiction with Cold War intrigue and takes the reader back to almost the beginning of time.
If this doesn’t catch and hold your attention, mix a band of ALFs and you’re bound to run out of the door in search of this book.
The Time Traders (published in 1958) is the first in a series of seven books.
I can’t yet speak for the others but this one should be on everyone’s science-fiction list or on their library shelf.
Andre Norton was one of my favorite authors when I was growing up, but I hadn't read this book before.
I'm not sure I would have if it hadn't been chosen for a group read as I'm not a fan of time travel stories.
By that time he's pretty well sucked in to the excitement.
It's a good thing he was trained pretty well on historic practices as he ends up needing all the survival skills he can use.
(view spoiler)[The alien presence in the past is not a surprise, but is not explained.(view spoiler)[ I guess some questions are for future books in the series.
I've read other books by Andre Norton and liked them fine, but this one just could not hook me.
The protagonist has no personality to speak of, and neither do any of the supporting cast.
(Was it the spirit of the age?
A lot of the 60's and 70's scifi I've encountered is very spare in that regard.) Our cardboard renegade is in a top-secret training program, so you'd think there'd be some good training scenes right?
Build the world, get to know the rivalries, how the characters relate to each other?
For a story that's so eager to get going, it was surprisingly uninteresting.
Read as the July pick for The Sword and Laser.Ironically, for a time travel story, I don't think this book has aged terribly well! Originally published in 1958, it's very short by modern standards and the plot is a bit simplistic.Having said that, there were some interesting ideas in the set-up and the whole thing romps along quite readably. A slightly generous 3 stars - probably merits 2.5 if Goodreads allowed such things!
Only 2 stars as I think that my issues with this book were more to do with me rather than the story itself. I found that I just couldn't relate to any of the characters, the writing was shallow without as much depth or description as I would have liked. Story line was intriguing but I could not get to grips with the way that it was put across. Not my cup of tea.
