https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/757761.Who_Goes_There_and_Other_Stories
Asimov, admittedly with a degree of bias, called Campbell “the most powerful force in science fiction” at that time, but there’s few today who would doubt his pre-eminence as an editor between the 1940’s and 1970’s.With such a prominent editing role, it is sometimes forgotten that he was also an author, at least until editing Astounding/Analog curtailed it, mainly under the pseudonym of Don A.
And, unlike the film versions, all without a female around.Campbell was a man with a mission at this time, tackling stories with an evangelical zeal to remove the galaxy-destroying super-science tale and replace them with stories that had a more scientific grounding.Much of his work in Astounding/Analog did so, and this is clearly an attempt to write so, even though it involves mind-reading.
Campbell, Jr. deserves a place in the pantheon of the great classics of science fiction for his interesting stories.
(1938): This is really a great story!
And John Carperter's 1982 movie was a great adaptation too (I love the classic from 1951 too).Blindness (1935): a scientific becomes an all humanity hero, but not in the way he was expecting.Frictional Loses (1936) A post invasion Earth.
Twilight (1934): The death of humanity; that is, the loss of what makes us human.Night (1938): The dead of the universe (what we know today as total entropy), only a few machines remain.I this review I included the year of each story (the book does not).
The shape-shifting alien is innately sinister and threatening, and the author does convey the sense of paranoia amongst the humans on the base, faced with such a creature.The edition I read was published in 1948, and the title story was just one of 7 short stories included.
“Dead Knowledge” was the best of them and, apart from the title story, the only one that deserved more than two stars.
I really read this for the title story though.
Who Goes There?" was, of course, the basis for the 1951 film The Thing from Another World, remade more true to form by John Carpenter as simply The Thing in 1982.
Including humans.To be brutally honest, Carpenter's revision and expansion of the story jacks the paranoia level up far higher than the original material, and the somewhat predictable ending is a bit too gung-ho.
Also, in Campbell's attempts to keep most of that whole eating bit offscreen, he goes over the brink of subtlety into confusion in more than one place, though the problems are relatively quickly rectified.
I've only read the title story online (the book is surprisingly hard to find.) I had heard the ultra-squeamish and still nightmare-inducing John Carpenter flick The Thing was more faithful to this, its source material, than the 1950's film version.
Also, the novella explains exactly how the Thing is able to make such realistic copies of people.
It reads minds and causes bad dreams just like that canister of green Satan goop in another John Carpenter flick, Prince of Darkness.
I wonder if Carpenter discarded that idea for The Thing, regretted it and plugged it into Prince a few years later.
What a good story.I am suprised that I haven't read this before.This story has all you could want in
Ma è nella lettura degli altri racconti che emerge la cifra stilistica di Campbell: una fantascienza più scientifica che favolistica, una continua speculazione sui possibili scenari del futuro, anche i più impensabili, sempre ancorati al rigore della scienza e alle leggi della fisica, anche quando queste ultime vengono meno.
È questo in fondo il fine della fantascienza, cercare di immaginare tutti gli scenari possibili che l'umanità dovrà affrontare, e come essa si rapporterà al suo stesso progresso.
I racconti "Crepuscolo" e "Notte" sembrano legati dalla stessa visione lontana nel tempo del destino della razza umana, e sono profondamente pessimisti.
In some ways it presages later works such as Samuel Delany's 'Nova' and Danny Boyle's film 'Sunshine', as well as contemplating the massive changes that would occur on Earth were a revolutionary new power source to be found.'Frictional Losses' is an early example of Atomic age post-apocalyptic and alien invasion fiction, so mainly fascinating as a cultural artifact.
Collectively these stories give an impression of a mind well ahead of its time, and one laying foundation stones for much of the science fiction (and some of the horror) to come.
It contains seven short fiction pieces originally published in "Astounding Science Fiction" between November of 1934, and August of 1938.
The story was first published in "Astounding" in August of 1938, and is probably Campbell's best known work.
It tied for 1st (with Twilight) on the 'Astounding/Analog All-Time Poll - Pre-1940 Short Fiction' in 1971, and was 26th overall for Short Fiction regardless of year.
It finished tied for 1st (with "Who Goes There?") on the 'Astounding/Analog All-Time Poll - Pre-1940 Short Fiction' in 1971, and 21st overall for Short Fiction of any era.
I only read the novella "Who Goes There." This is the story that the two movies The Thing were based on.
I was impressed with how faithful Carpenter's version was to the story.
As a reading experience it can be a bit choppy, as Campbell throws buckets of science at you, no doubt in order ground the story in a believable way.
(And the monster is one nasty sucker.) With all of that in mind, the story holds up pretty well, and if you're a fan of sci-fi & horror, you probably should read it.
It's a pretty influential story.

The BBC did an absolutely horrifying radio drama of this so I naturally had to read the work.Unfortunately I didn't really enjoy it much - perhaps the scare factor had been taken away by the vivid audio presentation and that just left a slightly expanded storyline - not enough to grip me with any force.
First thing first - you do need to read this novella.
Just because it's way too important to the pop culture.
It's all Who Goes There?Unfortunately, the original novella itself suffers from one certain problem - it's absolutely terribly written.
It's just that - the entire thing is terribly written.
Dialogues feel forced and unnatural, the story progression feels way too random and chaotic...
And still, there's that awesome feeling of cold ice and deep suspense to make this novella special..The other stories in this book are suffer from the similar problems, but far less important to the popular culture.
I originally picked this book up because it contains the short story Who Goes There?
which is the basis of the 1982 movie The Thing.
It turns out that the story that a movie I really like is based on is only okay to me.
it seems like it fast forwards through some of the details and then gives full explanations about things that don't really need that much detail to understand.
the other short stories that are collected in this book are very good although since this was written in the 1930's some of the science is a little outdated, but it's Si-Fi so that's okay.
The second fact is that while he was a prolific writer of well received short stories for magazines in the 1930s, he never seemed to write that big break out novel that pushes authors out of the magazine stands and onto the bookshelves.Seven of Campbell's best short stories are to be found in this collection, including his most famous work, the eponymous Who Goes There?
Almost predictably, it's his most famous work because it has a popular film adaptation: John Carpenter's 1982 horror classic The Thing.
I chose this book primarily to read the story behind The Thing (as I'm a big fan of John carpenter's screen version). Is it as good as the film? Probably not, but that doesn't mean to say it's not a well written, engaging story.As for the other shorts in the book - well, there are some thought-provoking ideas, but readers should be aware that they are somewhat dated.
Some of the stories kept me eager to find out the ending, some not so, however the reading is easy and the title story a great idea, and the inspiration of a great movie. Gave it 3 out of 5 due to the drastic change of story qualities.
The titular story is a delight, the rest forgettable pulp.
Like many, this is a review of the titular Novella, though I have read and enjoyed Campbell's other work (just not in a compilation).
Campbell's writing can be compared to the likes of Walter M Miller, Heinlein and Herbert in that it can focus heavily on the science at times or in exposition of why 'what is happening works'.
It is based on the 1982 modernization and will likely be an enjoyable contemporary read.
If not, the adaptation of the film (as I said earlier) is an EQUALLY enjoyable read, and likely more for you.
I loved the idea of an other worldly creature dividing men and turning them against one another.
The characters seemed a bit wooden and the descriptions of them could have been greatly expanded.
They uncover what appears to be a monster, or something that is most definitely from another world.
It seems to be over 20 million years old and comes from an environment much hotter than that in Antarctica.
A tense game develops with men watching one another intently when it comes apparent that the monster can shape shift and imitate whoever it takes over perfectly.
A final showdown between the 'human' men and the monster uncovers its plan.
"Who Goes There?": The novella that formed the basis of "The Thing" is the John W.
Far more people in the book ended up being monsters but overall the storyline was preserved.Campbell does an excellent job with his descriptions and information about the Antartic regions.
Yes, there were some areas I could not understand - scientific stuff that made little sense to me - but Campbell doesn't overburdon the story with it.There aren't "seven tales" in this book - just the one.
so not sure about the title.The bad is simply that the book isn't long enough plus it doesn't go into details about the humans vs the monster parts.
I read this story because it was the inspiration for the movie The Thing.
I wasn't wild about that movie, but I thought the movie, as a short story, would be an interesting read.
I suppose that's dangerous, to read a book with expectations from a movie.
Well, anyway, I found the movie a bit confusing, and reading the book has told me why: the book is also very confusing.
Moving on, he is trying to tell the story in a sort of minimalist style: light on the narration, let the dialogue do the work.
It was hard to tell what was going on.
A fun little sci-fi horror novella.
This story was the basis for the John Carpenter classic movie, The Thing, as well as for the earlier (and much less cool) 1950s movie.
I don't usually have very high expectations for old sci-fi stories, at least as far as basic excitement goes, but this one had a lot of the tension and appeal of the movie.
The book even has the cool blood test scene, which in the movie has to be one of the most intense moments in film.
By the way, if you haven't seen the John Carpenter movie but like the occasional alien horror flick, go out and rent it.
I know, but I just wanted to read what inspired The Thing!
There is ice, isolation, fear and curiosity as the creature is confirmed as being of an Alien origin.
Soon fear spreads and suspicions cause the croup to accuse each other.
Deaths happen, tests are done, nobody knows if anyone is who they say they are!Its suspense really, creepy and unnerving you find yourself thinking constantly of who is actually human.
I would recommend this if you want a short suspense story that gives you a bit of a chill down your spine.
The story is entertaining and it's clear how close Capenter stuckl to the tale for his film version, with his version of the creature much closer to Campbell's original beast than the Howard Hawk's produced version in the 50s - several scenes from Carpenter's adaptation are remarkably true to the source, and many of the characters keep their names (if not always their fates).
There's also that stalwart of period SF - Atomic Energy!All in all, a story worth visiting wheteher you're a fan of the film(s) or not.
I borrowed this from the library specifically to read the novella 'Who Goes There?' because I realised that I'd never read it despite it being a classic work of horror/SF and it is one that is hard to find.Who Goes There?
One story, 'Frictional Losses', was more impressive and could have been a template for the TV series 'Falling Skies' with its alien invasion reducing the human race to a small resistance force and the skitter-like aliens.
Too many adverbs and stilted dialogue made what would otherwise have been a very enjoyable collection of short stories into something that felt like a chore to read.
Campbell explains things to death.
The last story I was ready to give up after the hundreth repetition of "cold and dead".
I do not need nor want infodumps - I like to find my bearing and understanding of what is going on at a slow pace, while the story unfolds naturally.
Campbell explains everything at once, killing what could be an interesting mystery right off the bat.
Who Goes There, by John Campbell, long time editor of Astounding/Analog gave up his own career to guide the careers of others such as Heinlein and Asimov.
This story proves just how great a writer he was.
An alien being is discovered frozen in the antarctic (Three movies have been based on this), and it defrosts.
The men learn that the creature, each cell of the creature is capable of invading and transmuting anything it infects, into a copy of itself.
Paranoia never read so good.
This is one of the most frighting stories I've ever read.
I wouldn sdvice is doesn't get read with the lights out!
I grew up watching "The Thing: From Another World" with my father and graduated to the more frightening (and gruesome) "John Carpenter's The Thing" when I was old enough.
Having now read the story it has given me a greater appreciation for each of the films and rekindled my interest in both.
It was a great horror story and still gave me chills and made me think even though I knew what would happen.
For a 1938 serial novel published weekly in a science fiction magazine, this story is one of the most original and fascinating ideas I've come across.
I only read the title story in this collection, I wasn't keen to read on, although I did enjoy 'Who a Goes There' I found it convoluted.
I wanted to read the story because I love the film 'The Thing' and I'm glad I did but it's a little old fashioned and some of the science has been superseded so it was hokey in places and as mentioned, convoluted.
There is a great creepiness to this however and I think John Carpenter really captured the mood of the story with his film.
I might pick this up again one day and read the other stories but not just yet.
