https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40611510-the-last-lecture
The book, and the lecture itself, now take on new meaning.For those who aren't aware, Randy Pausch was a computer science professor at Carnegie Mellon University.
“The Last Lecture” contains everything that Randy covered in the lecture, plus some other anecdotes and pearls of wisdom from his life and experience.Like the lecture, the book is earnest and straightforward.
We need people like Randy, who have a clear picture of what they have learned in life and who are willing to share it.
His life, lecture, book, and his death remind me of a quote from Dr. Howard Thurman: "Don't ask yourself what the world needs.
My review of this book will not be popular, but I must be honest.
I'm halfway through this book, and although I appreciate a positive voice, it's really not that interesting or helpful.
If I could sum up this book in three words, they would be "yay for me".
The author tells us how great his childhood was, then that he accomplished all his childhood dreams, got the girl of his dreams...etc etc etc.
It's really not a book how to better your own life, as much as it him telling us how great his life has been.
randy pausch was one of those professors and this book was his last lecture.i have found it rather difficult to critique a dying mans thoughts and words to his wife and children.
i will admit, i have never given much thought about dying.
but more regretfully, i have never given much thought about living.
in most aspects, i am content.
randy pausch had months to live when he spoke/wrote similar thoughts about what it means to live life.
i dont want to wait until the end of my life to realise i never focused on the importance of really living.
While this man has a 5-star attitude, I can only give the book two.
Five star attitude...
Has 3 small children (ages 6 and under)who will never know him.
he was scheduled to give a "last lecture", ya know, how to live your life as if you were dying...
(irony) and he writes it in such a way that it's a celebration of his life.
his children will know who he was and what he believed in.
a story of how life can throw brick walls in your way and you have a choice, to stop or go around them.
But it is not worth reading.This is typical 1980's individualistic, unreflective advise on how to succeed in life.
Alas, Professor Pausch does not realize that he was born white, male, middle income, in exactly the time in the 20th century where he could avoid confronting WWI, WWII, the depression, Korea, Vietnam, urban riots of the 1960's, the civil right movement,and the women's movement because he was too young.
Have the pre-natel intelligence to be born male at the right time, in the right place, to parents who are racially privileged citizens of a superpower in ascendance during a brief window of peace at a time of expanding educational opportunity for middle-income working people in an expanding economy.
The Last Lecture is Randy Pausch's last hurrah- a final note to the world and his family about how to live, love and let go. It is beautiful.I think that we're all here for a reason and have stories to tell. How fortunate for us all that Randy had the time and ability to tell his particular story.I recommend this book for fans of memoirs, computer engineering and heart-felt narratives. I listened to the audiobook and it was excellent.Then, once I finished the book, I looked up Randy's actual last lecture on YouTube. Bring your kleenexes, friends.
The Last Lecture, literally, for a professor with a terminal illness. Taken from a speech that he wanted to impart to his students, family, friends, - really everyone as he came to grips with his condition.This is about as emotionally charged and spiritually powerful as you may expect, the author is exploring territory that we all face, but he was at the edge of existence when he put this together. Randy Pausch was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer and had months to live, from this perspective he shares with us what is most important. Read it, discuss it, share it.
Most of the complaints had to do with:--the fact that Pausch sucks as an author--Pausch’s personality--what did this guy do so differently that he actually deserved a book?--the book is too preachy--it’s too Hallmarky--it’s too DisneySo going into the book expecting these faults, I found myself focusing on what is probably the most important thing about this book: Randy Pausch (who isn’t alive anymore) had three children under the age of five who may not remember that once upon a time, he was their father who loved them very much.
And so I can’t help but feel glad and happy for Randy Pausch’s children because they will grow up knowing that their dad’s life inspired so many millions of people.
The day (August 15, 2007) Randy Pausch got the devistating news that his cancer had spread and there was nothing the doctors could do anymore, is the same day that we arrived at MD Anderson with my father in law, knowing things were not right.
This book and Mr. Pausch's stories are so touching and true that we can all find something in there that will help us want to be a better person.
The brink walls are there to give us a chance to how how badly we want something." Mr. Pausch refers to the brick walls so many times, but it is so true!pg.111- "Time is all you have.
It's hard to criticize a dying man.
I think this is a great book for his wife, family, children, and friends to read, and although it has some good life lessons that are not revolutionary but do need repeating from time to time, this book is not well written.
At points while I was reading I found myself actually disliking Pausch and his way of presenting himself, but then I realized that this would perhaps make me a horrible person.
I very much prefer Tuesdays With Morrie for a similar message that is presented in a more eloquent way.
THIS BOOK BLEW ME AWAY!!!
Yeah I really won't be able to give a coherent review.Suffice to say that this is human beings at their best.
You might not agree with all of Randy's lessons, but he tells you from the get go that this is what he thinks and he did it all for his kids.Towards the end I cried because there really isn't another word to describe the whole thing but genuine.
The book was published when he was still alive, but I read it when he had already passed away so it was even more heartbreaking.We can all learn from what Randy has to say.
I am not judging Pausch but looks like he was telling the truth that he was self-centered and took highly of himself, e.g., finishing other people's sentences, when he was still young and healthy.
That's why that part where he was supposed to tell how he was able to inspire others was short and somewhat less affecting.I thought that it would have been better if Pausch hired a seasoned writer to assist him in writing the book.
بل جعل المحاضرة تنبض بالمرح والذكاء والفطنة وكيف كان يتعامل وفق منهجية جعلت منه رجلاً يحقق أحلام الطفولة بكل يسر وسهولة !الكتاب يقع في الحجم الوسط ..
شخصية راندي أثرت بكل من عرفها وكل من قرأ له بعد ذلك !قرأت في الكتاب أو فيما بين السطور ..
راندي كان يقول : الناجحون هم الذين يحققون أحلام الطفولة ..
يقول ذلك ويسرد قصص طويلة كانت أشبه بأحلام الطفولة وكيف كان يحققها ويسترد هذا الحلم بعد كل نجاح يحققه !تعامله البسيط ..
وفي كل مرة يضحك ويبتسم للحياة كونه يشعر أن الحياة وإن كانت قصيرة فصبغك لها صبغة كئيبة ستجعلك أقصر عمراً !راندي بوتش ..
نمونه های کوچکی از مطالب کتاب و درس هایی که گرفته: The break walls in your way are to assess how badly you desire something موانعی که در مسیر به آنها بر می خوریم به این خاطر هستن که نشون بدیم چقدر طالب و خواستار آنچه پشت آن است، هستیم Instead of complaining, work harder and think for solution جای شکایت کردن و ناله کردن، به فکر راه حل باشید و تلاش کنید.
I suspect I would have enjoyed the book more if he had simply written about his work at the university, but I did not feel a connection to the author, despite his obvious courage in the face of a terminal illness.
When I look at the picture on the back cover of the book, showing the author with his kids, I think, "that's the audience to whom one should devote their last days".
No doubt this book will be treasured by the authors friends and family, for the personal insights and memories, but I wouldn't recommend it to a broader audience.
I'm appending this with the review I wrote for my paper: http://www.post-gazette.com/pg/08097/...I read this because I am doing continuing coverage on the author, a Carnegie Mellon University professor who is dying of pancreatic cancer and who gave a last lecture that has been viewed on the Web by more than 6 million folks.For what it is -- essentially an expanded version of the lecture about his life story and his advice on how to live a fulfilling life which can all be read in a sitting -- it is very good.It's highly readable, in part because of Randy's own communication savvy and personality, but also undoubtedly because of the crafting it got from Wall Street Journal columnist Jeffrey Zaslow.
Letting go.I am at the same place as Randy, wanted to read this book and learn. Didn't want to miss something. Glad my boys are all grown up and I'm 75. Love reading, but medications making me not to connect, read parts of the story again and again. But as to find some relief in these last days from his lecture didn't happen.
I realize that the author is trying to cram all that he has found to be important in life in 200 pages, which is automatically going to make it seem preachy.
He spent too much time encouraging people to scale brick walls on the paths to their dreams.
Then he started describing other people as brick walls and he lost me.
Since the author did not mention choosing battles wisely, I'm left to assume that this is his behavior all the time.
I have the kind of imagination that makes me extrapolate out the idea of overcoming brick walls; if everyone thought no meant try harder, the chaos would be incredible.
This book grew out of the desperation of a computer professor, when he discovered that he had terminal cancer, and he wanted absolutely to leave a manual of guidance for his little kids.
It's this fact about this book that drew me, because, in terms of parental guidance, I haven't been one of the lucky ones.I was surprised by the vividness and vivacity of the writing.
The pages kept turning as if by themselves, and I was disappointed that the book ran out so soon.Authentic and practical wisdoms that come not from the brain but from the heart of a devoted father.
How I wish I had one book like this when I was growing up.
Read on!!Randy Pausch was a professor at Carnegie Mellon in Pittsburgh, PA.
In that capacity he was responsible for designing and building Disney theme parks, resorts, cruise ships, and other entertainment venues at all levels of project development.From Will Schwalbe's book, The End of Your Life Book Club, I gleaned the following:(His story began) with an article by the Wall Street Journal staff writer Jeffrey Zaslow about Pausch, who’d been asked by his university, Carnegie Mellon, to deliver what used to be called a “Last Lecture,” the idea being that you would speak about the things you would speak about if you were giving the last lecture you would ever give.
Randy spoke and he pored his heart out for over an hour.I challenge the reader of this review to read the passages I have highlighted from his book.
WOW!!This book is right up my alley in my latest/favorite reads or movies watched; Animal, Plant, Vegetable (Barbara Kingslover), Into The Wild (movie), and now The Last Lecture.The book is about Randy Pausch, also the author, who is diagnosed with terminal cancer and has 3-6 months to live.
After much thought, he decides to write about "living".
About what he is leaving his 3 very young children and his wife.
To cherish your family, your friends, your children, and your wife/husband.
It's a reminder about dreams no matter how big or small can be achieved if you truly believe in your self.
"so many will get the chance to say goodbye,BUT It's never too late to think of the value of your life " Randy was trying to tell us that , and he did it in a great way !It was more than a lecture !
I was completely in , I cried with him and laughed with him, I was amazed by his courage, faith and pride , I liked how he decided to help his wife in raising the kids after his death .he was a great father , husband and partner when he wrote" I was trying to put my self in a bottle that would one day wash up on the beach of my children .
I enjoyed watching his last lecture, which was extremely touching, but reading this book was even more touching. I actually teared up numerous times while reading it.As far as I'm concerned, this guy is a hero. He was happy, and yet he achieved so much. He was diagnosed with cancer, and instead of just letting it put him down, it was a motive for him to leave this last lecture, a lasting legacy.I do recommend that everyone read this book.
“Are you a Tigger or an Eyore?”― Randy Pausch, The Last Lecture
He tells us in the beginning of the lecture it won't be about his wife and kids and how much he loves them--but of course that's exactly where he ends, so we are totally consumed in sympathy and crying our eyes out at the end (if we have any compassion at all).As a cathartic reading for families and caregivers dealing with terminal illness, this book could probably be an effective salve, but as a homily of wisdom for the ages (or common sense to live by, take your pick as it works as both) this book offers many of the same platitudes one would find in any wise sermon or self-help essay.
تصمیم میگیره سخنرانی ای ترتیب بده تا به قول خودش حرف ها و درس های زندگی رو که قرار بود طی سال ها به 3 فرزند خردسالش بیاموزد و چون دیگر پدر و مادرها به همراه جی همسرش بزرگش شدنشان را به نظاره بنشیند در این فرصت اندک در شیشه ای بگذارد تا شاید روزی از دل اقیانوس زندگی در ساحل آرامش به دست فرزندانش برسد و آنها نبود گرمای وجود پدر را کمتر احساس کنندکتاب گزارشی است از این سخنرانی و حواشی آن و هم چون کتاب های دیگری چون گفتگو با مرگ و مرگ ایوان ایلیچ که بازتابنده ی حالات روحی و اعترافات صادقانه ی انسان در آستانه ی مرگ است شیرین و خواندنی است...درخواست پذیرش رندی پوش از طرف دانشگاه کارنگی ملون رد می شود و بعد با وساطت یکی از اساتید او را می پذیرند رندی در این باره می نویسد:
A little bit cocky, irritating and smug but an easy read.
Quite possibly overhyped.
I kind of felt like he presented his life lessons as if they were grand revelations, unheard of and earth shattering ...
but I found myself struggling to see the sense in some of them.
Keep $200 in my wallet?
With the frequency that I lose my purse and my inability to even keep a $200 float in my bank account ...
not likely to happen.
Besides, he didn't really follow through with the whole childhood dreams thing.
Plus, I like the cover of his book.
كيف استطاع أهل راندي بوتش جعل ابنهم يحلم ويتمكن من تحقيق أحلامه فيما بعد؟قد يكون الجواب بسيطاً لكنه عميقاً جدا: كانوا عوناً له في أن يكون ذو أفق واسع، وخيال لا محدود، يستند على قاعدة معلوماتية اكتسبها لأن أسرته تقرأ الموسوعة بعد العشاء!هل تريد أن تكوّن أسرة مثقفة تنتج أبناء مبدعين؟!راندي بوتش نشأ في أسرة تعشق المعرفة ومتابعة إصدارات موسوعة الكتب العالمية، أسرة كان شعارها “إذا كان لديك سؤال فابحث عن إجابة له في الموسوعة“..
Excellent book about how a man dying of cancer approaches the last few months of his life. He has a wife and three young children, and wants to leave something for them and his former students to remember him by (his "Last Lecture). His book talks about his thoughts about this and his last few months with his family.
That served me well with The Last Lecture because it gave me time to pause and think over all the little life lessons and pearls of wisdom contained in Pausch's story.
Everyone is likely to take something a little different from this book -- which is why everyone at some point should try to read it -- but the biggest thing I took was the brick wall concept.The brick wall might represent a situation in life or even a relationship with another person, but Pausch makes it clear: "Brick walls are there for a reason.
