https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14504.Marjorie_Morningstar
My mom, knowing what an avid reader I was, brought home thrift store copies of the books Gone with the Wind and Marjorie Morningstar hoping I'd make a dent in them during the summer.
I ended up finishing Gone with the Wind a few years ago, and was so awed by the in depth research and history that went into the novel.Now after finishing Marjorie Morningstar, I am equally amazed at the depth of this novel!
I don't think the thirteen- year-old me would have appreciated Wouk's message about Judaism and the evolving role of women in society during the 30s.

Wow! This was one of my favorite books --- I just noticed a GR's friend marked to read it.I'd enjoy reading it again myself! HINT: (to our local book club) --if anyone is reading this: This would be a great pick for a 'classic' pick month.
I listened to the Audible version of this book and that was the only reason I finished it.
I choose this book because I loved "Winds of War" and "War and Rememberance" but Marjorie Morningstar was just unpleasant.
If the relationship between Marjorie and Noel is love, I am happy to say I've never been in love, and don't want to be.
Although there was some redemption in the end, I found it put me in a bad mood while listening.
None of the main characters were likable, and Marjorie a sap, and Noel a manic/depressive weasel.
He decided to write this story about his youthful crush, and has the insight to imagine her life as it was for her where he was only a minor character.
But his desire for revenge is thwarted because Marjorie doesn't remember saying that, she is now convinced in her mind that she knew even in the 1930's that Wally had great talent and was destined for fame.An interesting personal sidelight.
2016- In Sailor and Fiddler, Wouk discounts my theory that Marjorie was based on a youthful romance of his.
He is in fact another version of Youngblood Hawke, a novelist who meets a tragic end.After much emotional waffling, reminiscent of Bella in Twilight; after realizing that being a "bad girl" means you have to go to bed with the guy, Marjorie turns tail and settles for marriage, security and all the rest, just as Noel had predicted.
(I never finished the Twilight Series and don't know what Bella decided.) I'm not sure what Wouk was up to here.
Youngblood Hawke burned out from a relentless pursuit of art and fame, as is predicted for Noel.
Marjorie Morningstar was an enlightening read.
But for some or other reason I just continued reading it to try and find the final message (to me) in it.
One half of my mind proclaim it a brilliant book but the other half said it was boring especially when the author himself at one point said: "You couldn't write a play about her that would run a week, or a novel that would sell a thousand copies.
There's no angle." But I kept thinking about the book, the way the author created the characters, the detail of everything.
I finally felt I was Marjorie, in the end!
I re-read my 1950's copy with Natalie Wood on the cover for years, until it fell apart.
I was actually prompted to read this by a "Mad" magazine spoof, "Marjorie Morningkitten." I think it was "Mad." I love this book, with its vivid descriptions of Marjorie's wardrobe and aspirations, though I do find Wouk's portrayal of a female non-virgin heinously offensive now: "Never would he look at her the same way again." What a load of hypocrisy.
Lost her cherry and is now damaged goods.
This isn't my number one chick-lit book because it's intensely frustrating in the same way "Back Street" is.
Then I got the almost 600 page monstrosity and there on the shelf it sat for a while.
I felt like I was reading for years and years (actually I was.
I guess I liked the story, but it was long and part of the length was due to a particularly wordy character who I couldn't stand, namely because he didn't shut up and some scenery descriptions that interrupted much more interesting dialogue.
Mainly the reader follows her dating and social life, experiencing those six years in six hundred pages until she eventually marries.
I liked reading about the time period, but I grew annoyed with the characters.
I liked it less and less as it went along. I felt compelled to finish it but wished I'd never gotten sucked in. It was just really irritating to watch Marjorie be pathetic and weak over and over and honestly I get so tired of novels where everyone is small and miserable.
In the same vein, it's also strange how pretty much absent is the threat of Nazism and Hitler until almost the end, though, to Wouk's credit, he did a masterful job in this regard when he does finally get to it, in Marjorie's first European crossing and her meeting/relationship with Eden (and what a name!).In many ways, M.M. is a classical mid-century young girl's coming-of-age novel, complete with rebellion,staid parents, 'foolish' (read: unrealistic) daydreams, seduction by a Rake and loss of virginity.
That a man of that era would so readily portray how a woman could want something different is, I think, somewhat remarkable.
The Women's Movement was yet unborn, to my knowledge, but certainly Wouk was aware of what has always been those women who wished for something more.In addition to the career versus marriage aspect, is the historical sex versus virginity question.
As women we know ourselves and women authors have been willing to make us stretch our horizons, make us think.
Perhaps he is what men think women want.
Wouk expertly captures the essence of the period about which he writes.
One can read the story today, or any time since about the late 1960s or early 1970s, and the "purity factor" would seem dated and probably even insulting to most women.
However, if taken in the context of the time period in which the story is set (15-20 years before it was published in 1955) that aspect of the story should be less annoying.FWIW I finally saw the movie about a year ago (late 2010), and it pales in comparison to the book.
I just realized that I never marked this as book I read......and read a long, long time ago, indeed.
I was 15 or 16 when my mother told me I could read her copy of Herman Wouk's Marjorie Morningstar.
Herman Wouk, who also wrote The Winds of War, and other great novels, wrote very readable novels.
Marjorie Morningstar was a romantic novel, especially for its time, and risqué for a teenaged girl reading her first such novel.

Every man who meets Margie falls in love with her, but Margie is set on Airman - how the love affair plays out, I won't spoil, but we watch as Marjorie grows up and meets Mark Eden on a ship crossing, handles her woebegone love Wally, throws over her first love, experiences Paris right before the war, and ends up with the right choice, afterall.
What was tedious was Wouk's philosophizing, his discussions of Freudian psychology and the meandering thoughts of both Airman and Eden.
This is like the 1930s version of Reality Bites--good girl dabbles in a bohemian lifestyle, and finds herself torn between the artistic jackass she loves and the nice Jewish boys that bore her.
While I was repeatedly stunned by how much Wouk gets it right, even for a book set in the 1930s (sexual politics between men and women, class politics in a melting pot nation, backstage politics of the theater), I was frustrated by the lack of a clear story arc.
There are definitely parts of the novel that drag, and those parts should have been heavily edited.
I'm definitely torn by the ending, however.
To sum it up, the book has the feel of a newspaper serial turned into a novel.
I tried hard, but I just can't stick it with this one. I guess I just can't read Wouk. I've tried a couple of his others. He knows how to write, but he's too long-winded for me. If you're going to like Marjorie Morningstar, you have to be familiar with (or at least care about) all the 1930s class distinctions in Manhattan and NYC in general. The characters obsess endlessly about who lives east or west of certain streets or landmarks, and what it means about their social standing. Bleh.
Read this over one weekend when I was about 12 or 13. I wanted to be Marjorie Morningstar. "Nough Said? I need to re-read this at age 50. I'm smiling just thinking about how much I loved and how I devoured this book. Perfect coming of age "drama" for a "tween" growing up on New York's Upper West Side. Wonder what my end of 9th grade daughter would thnk about this book...Hmm...We'll see...
Thank you god, I finally came to the end of this 600 page beast. I loved the 1950’s feel of the novel, with many of the scenes so true to life, and Who can ever forget “Neville the Devil” biting the judge at the Seder. I didn’t love any of the major characters, and couldn’t wait for the misery to end.
The chief male character, Noel, is a self-absorbed bad boy; not only the downfall of women now but for the ages, it seems.
What I truly wonder about this book is Noel's philosophic, at times maniacal, meanderings.
Wouk is a superb craftsman and the arguments against Marxism, Freud, Hitler were what suprised me most and that I loved about the book.
I wish I had read it in a book club so that I could get a take on how readers much younger than myself as well as those my age saw it.
I really enjoyed the settings (Manhattan between the wars, summer camp for adults [like Moss Hart in Act One:], crossing to France in an ocean liner, all the cocktails and hats and dancing).
In terms of its attitude about women, though, the period feel is much less charming.
Maybe because it's written by a man from a woman's perspective?
Maybe because it's too long?
that her radiance was the radiance of my own hungry young desires projected around her." The premise is that, after their dewy seductiveness has worn away (somewhere around 25, apparently), real women are good for nothing but nurturing the children and menfolk.
Argh.
It was like reading about your own weaknesses, the poor choices you've made in life, the regrets, the lost loves, the could have been's, and the stark reality of who you've become and what your life really turned out to be.
Wouk is an exceptional creator of deep and true characters, however, sometimes and I mean really only very few times...his character Marjorie said or did things that to me felt like a man's perception of what a woman would think, rather than how a woman really would think.
I loved this book though but don't know if I can ever ever ever read it again.
I confess that I only made it to page 360, but I was dying of boredom.
(Ditto many other characters.) If you want to know the lifestyle of a person of this class in 1935, it's interesting, but the mores here are so removed from our own, it's a little like reading science fiction about life on another planet.
For pretty girls, for fat girls, for girls who liked to dance, for "unnatural" girls who wanted careers, for girls who put out and for girls who did not, for girls who talked too much and girls who talked too little.

I really loved this charming novel.
There were some stale sections (honestly, I think there are stale sections in all of Wouk's novels).
But taken as a whole it was really lovely.
Marjorie Morningstar is like every young girl: starry eyed, searching for significance.
Of course, times have changed and things are different but, really, haven't we all been charmed by a man who isn't right for us?
I know I was.In the end, Wally Wronken is somewhat disappointed that his extraordinary Marjorie has ended up a rather ordinary housewife.
Perhaps Marjorie's life is ordinary, but the beauty of the ordinary can be extraordinary.
I loved this book - I love everything I have ever read by Herman Wouk, but I read this book so many years ago, I'm afraid I can't write a substantive review.
I can only say I know it was a fabulous book and recommend this and every other book this author has written to you unequivocally.
I would like to add that I found this book in my home when I was still practically a child - it's what got me hooked on this author.
After reading this book, I found Don't Stop The Carnival, also by Wouk, read it and became a staunch fan of this author.
Wonderful writing--so detailed. So far, a joy to read. I gave it the four star rating for the writing. The story however is probably a three and a half star rating. Maybe because it's such an old story, young idealistic girl falls for a cad with a capital "C" and maybe because you get a little tired of the characters falling into the same situations over and over again. However, it is worth reading especially for the feeling you get for the 1930's era and the New York milieu.
Perhaps if I had read this when I was younger, I might have loved it. But Wouk has got the misogyny of his time down cold, and Marjorie is less a character than an exhibit of how girls shouldn't behave. Pleh.
