https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6142025-mr-spaceship
It tells the story of how, during a war with the planet of the "Yuks", a people who use highly sophisticated life-forms as weapons, a research team headed by engineer Philip Kramer attempts to craft a spaceship capable of comparable subtlety and maneuverability, a spaceship united with a human brain.
Kramer's kindly old mathematics professor Dr. Michael Thomas (who, it turns out, has some interesting ideas of his own).This is a straightforward science fiction tale, with a sprinkling of romance fiction thrown in for good measure.
It is far from Dick's weirdest, and a good way from his best, but it is also a thoroughly enjoyable professional entertainment.
Dick.The Pluses:-Tons of great ideas.-Still mined for movies on the regular.-One of the better beards.The Minuses:-Prose a little weak.-Dialogue downright tough.I drove to PKD's grave not that long ago.
So to them, the flowers or the teddy bears or whatever are no better than jamming a Butterfinger wrapper into the dirt in front of a grave.Maybe it takes a certain kind of person to work at a graveyard.PKD's grave had a stack of pens in front of it.
When in Rome, do whatever the hell it is Romans do to graves, right?Although I'm always ready to talk a little smack about his lines, the man had a shitload of pretty great ideas.
• 5 ⭐ Honestly didn’t know what to expect when I started reading but man was I NOT disappointed! My second Philip K. Dick short story and I think I’m gonna keep reading him. It’s a quick read and I highly recommend it for fans of sci-fi and it’s easy enough to understand for non-sci-fi readers as well. Don’t miss it! •
• 5 ⭐️ Honestly didn’t know what to expect when I started reading but man was I NOT disappointed! My second Philip K. Dick short story and I think I’m gonna keep reading him. It’s a quick read and I highly recommend it for fans of sci-fi and it’s easy enough to understand for non-sci-fi readers as well. Don’t miss it! •
Earth has made contact with aliens on a planet orbiting the nearby Proxima Centauri.
They employ weapons which seem to be alive; ships and mines which decide when to attack, or to act spontaneously and without obvious pattern, which confuses our robot controlled vessels.An idea is hatched to connect a human brain to a spaceship, so that we would be on some sort of equal footing with our enemy.
Until, that is, the brain-controlled spaceship proves that it still has a mind of its own, and it's goals aren't exactly in harmony with Earth's.This is a quick read, but a thoroughly enjoyable story with rich characters.
A theory of war with some creative twists.
What they create this way, getting more than they originally bargained for, is a super-intelligent starship, pursuing its own agenda – and kidnapping Kramer and his ex-wife in the process – and the proof that after all it will be the human brain that asserts its superiority over the machine by dominating and exploiting it, and not the other way around.(view spoiler)[As to Mr. Spaceship’s agenda, it consists in abducting Kramer and his ex-wife and persuading them to start a new society somewhere on an out-of-the-way planet in order to find out whether going to war is a human instinct, ineradicable from man’s evolutionary programme, or whether it is an acquired habit.
Pretty early on you can guess where the central premise of the story is headed, and I was happy to be along for the ride...then Philip K.
The social commentary was very interesting (tho I have the bias of already agreeing with the message), and I appreciated the usage of the human-brain-in-a-robot-body schtick in a new, non-humanoid context.I reserve 5-star status not just for those stories which I like most, but those which really make me think, and may actually affect me in the long run.
Mr. Spaceship matches those criteria, and also serves as being a quintessential 1950s PKD story.
"Open the pod bay door, Hal.""I can't do that Dave."Kinda like that, but kinda not. OK, not very much at all, just one scene reminded me of 2001. Interesting, but (probably due space limitations; ha, get it? I made a pun), a bit of a weak ending. Readable, with a modicum of the PKD wit to boot.
Creates a powerful and emotive image in the mind, but is spoiled by a forced final act. A book which might have been better without explanation.
A touching story that rings as true today as it ever has. I’d love to study this through the lens of the self & other, and especially through disability & embodiment.It’s allusion to the relationship between all of humanity and all Being at large, and the intimate, interpersonal relationships in our lives is really brilliant — although to call it “ahead of its time” is to do PKD’s forward-thinkingness a disservice, as it was also a product of its era.
enfes.
Earth is at the losing end of a war with an alien race, called Yuks, who are able traverse the universe without spaceships.
To turn tides, Earth's military engineer Kramer devices a method of installing a human brain into a man made mechanical spaceship.Professor Thomas, who is in the declining years of his life, volunteers to transplant his brain into the spaceship and to strike at the emeny.
An entertaining little piece, but I give this one only three stars because the interior logic of the story just doesn't track for me. The lead suggests a particular old man for an experiment because he remembers him well. But later, when thongs go awry, he states he didn't really remember that much about the old man. It just didn't make sense to me. Still an enjoyable read and while the ending may seem predictable today, it was far from such when first published.
One of Dick's short stories,  Mr. Spaceship  is a fitting account of the idea of merging man and machine, which has subsequently reoccurred in various science fiction pieces. In this case, it is an observation about the extension of the human lifespan and the god-like status accorded to one in charge of significant technology. Lots of interesting themes but the ending is a little underdeveloped
Very nice short story, well paced and dealing with interesting themes, but the ending kinda threw me off. I didn't expect PKD to pull the cheesy card on us, but he did! While I would have prefered a more ambiguous and thought provoking conclusion to the story, being totally surprised was refreshing. Yay for happy endings and second chances... I guess!
Siempre me pasa lo mismo con este autor: presenta grandes ideas, pero la ejecución final me deja completamente fría, como si se le hubiera ido de las manos... De todos modos sigo leyendo obras suyas únicamente por sus ideas.
It's a good story, but the ending is weak. I get the metaphorical context, but I just didn't find it satisfying.
I've found a new favorite author! Cleaver, original, and beautiful.
Seemed it was written by a teenager. Thin plot, poor conversations. Important decisions of war are made in spur of the moment.
The writing is so bad that I cannot finish this. Reads like something thrown together by a disinterested high school student for English class.
Loved it up until the end.
A Neat Science Fiction Story, With A Twist!!!!Phillip K Dick is among the giants in the science fiction writers. However, not many readers of science fiction have heard of him. He is best known for his realistic characters and for placing them into incredibility, strange, dangerous, or paradoxical situations. In this selection the protagonist is trapped in deep space, aboard a ship with a human brain!! It"s a great read for readers of science fiction!!!
I found the plot progression to be predictable and the ending a little weak and nonsensical, but overall it's a pretty neat science fiction story with some creative ideas. I don't know if I found it predictable because the story was derivative, or if the story was original for its time and I just consumed enough Sci-Fi to know what to expect.
An unexpected positive short story by one of the bleakest writers of science fictionWhen I started this short story, I expected it to be a dark story like electric sheep. But it turned out to be a very upbeat story with a wonderful ending. I would suggest this quick read for anyone who is interested in science fiction.
That was an extraordinarily fucked up ending for such a short piece. Like, I mean the fact that incest will now be a requirement and, ignoring the fact that this didn't work out so well the last time? What the fuck PKD?
An interesting space drama looking at what could happen if our space craft were run on and with total control going to and from a human mind. As well as debating the question is war a habit or an instinct of humanity. A must read for the curious. I loved it!!!
An interesting idea, especially for the time. The characters were pretty dumb in choosing their subject, and the prof was likewise undiscerning in choosing his own subjects, but still an interesting short story.
Well written by Philip K. Dick. A superb short story that stands the test of time for readers. A must read for any sci fi fan.
A human brain gets a body of a spaceship! AWESOME! 5-STARS!
Made me tear 😢If Philip K Dick isn’t considered a Christian writer, he very well should be - even if he is not actually a Christian. (Im not sure his actual beliefs)
