https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11010251-the-lost-wife
Her decision is forced by time, the die is cast, Lenka will stay with her family while her husband Josef will flee with his family to America.
Alyson Richman leads you through Josef's life in America with the sombre burden of what he has left behind and Lenka's harsh reality with her internment at Terezin.
Quite oddly, I found the rendition of Josef's life more emotive than Lenka's story tethered as he was in America and bound to lead a life he had little interest in.
The Lost Wife is a novel that I am very glad to have read.
One of the most beautifully written, moving historical fiction novels I have ever read.
Alyson Richman evokes magic in her telling of the love story of Lenka and Josef, two Czechoslovakian Jews whose fate is determined by forces beyond their control.
Her research is flawless and serves as a true testament to what those who suffered at the hands of the Nazis endured.
For anyone who loves historical fiction, especially set in the era of WWII, this book is for you.
The added bonus is that the story is written beautifully and with such a depth of compassion that you will find yourself forever changed after having read it.
From the stunning prologue to the very last page, this is a remarkable read.The first few pages of the prologue reveal that a man and a woman, married and then separated for 60 years by the Nazi invasion of Prague, and both thinking the other dead, meet at the wedding reception of the grandson of one and the granddaughter of the other.
Now you might think that revealing this much in the very beginning of the book would reduce the emotional content of what follows.
Knowing they will eventually meet makes each aspect of their separate stories even more poignant.
"It's beautiful," I say. But it is more than beautiful. It is touching. It is heartbreaking. The Lost Wife has been a wonderful and moving read. A truly heartbreaking, yet heartwarming book!"But sometimes even the thickest rope frays and one get lost."Alyson Richman's The Lost Wife is primarily the story of an artist who survives the Holocaust, but at the core, it is actually a love story."In my old age, I have come to believe that love is not a noun but a verb. An action. Like water, it flows
The Lost Wife has been a wonderful and moving read.
A truly heartbreaking, yet heartwarming book!"But sometimes even the thickest rope frays and one get lost."Alyson Richman's The Lost Wife is primarily the story of an artist who survives the Holocaust, but at the core, it is actually a love story."In my old age, I have come to believe that love is not a noun but a verb.
The main character of Joseph is a beloved that has found his beloved in Lenka.
The narration is seamless as you see the heartache of of Joseph and Lenka.
And you get plenty of gravy.The story shows the plight of the Jews and it also touches on the loyality that Lenka's family remain together and not be separated in the concentration camps.
I cannot do the justice of the characters or the story of how two people in love continue thru so much heart ache.
I am my beloved and my beloved is mine...to see that in the grandchildren of Lenka and Joseph gives hope.
What an emotional book! The base of The Lost Wife  is a beautiful love story but you will get so much more. I learned new facts about the holocaust and I've read lots of WWII books. The author did a great job with her research.Favorite quote: “And I saw for the first time how, despite the isolation of our own lives, we are always connected to our ancestors; our bodies hold the memories of those who came before us, whether it is the features we inherit or a disposition that is etched into our soul.”
The Lost Wife by Alyson Richman.In Pre War Prague the hopes and dreams of two young lovers are shattered when they are separated by the Nazi Invasion.I listened to this novel as opposed to reading it and I really enjoyed the narrators as they were both eloquent and easy to listen to.
I liked the story and enjoyed the narration and this is why I have rated it 3 stars.
I did however find the story ended abruptly and I wasn't quite satisfied by the conclusion of the story.
I'm starting out with three, let's see where we end up, shall we?For as many things as I liked about this book, there are several things I disliked.
There were times when it felt like it shouldn't be there, and yet, I found myself only wanting to finish to see if Lenka and Josef ever found each other again.
I don't deny that there are people who make rash decisions like this and wholeheartedly believe they're doing the right thing, but Lenka's refusal to leave with Josef was a decision based not in love or loyalty, but in fear.
I truly loved Josef as a character.
This book disappointed me.
I think this is the first Holocaust book I've read where I haven't cried, and I should have, especially reading the author's notes whereby she based a lot of the characters and storyline on actual events.
Don't get me wrong, I did feel affected by it, but on reflection, it was actually my prior knowledge of the Holocaust and memories of other stories I've read and/or watched which stirred the emotions rather than this specific book.
I wish there was less cheesy romance in the first half of the book (well actually Josef's entire storyline) and was written exclusively from Lenka's point of view.
Would give this book six stars if I could.
The structure of the narration works really well and whilst Lenka’s story is most horrifying, I found myself more interested in those parts of the book when the story was being told from Josef’s perspective.There are many themes explored throughout the book, lost love, separation, family love, family loyalty, survival not only during the terrible times of WWII but the survival of people in the marriages of both Lenka and Josef after the war.
I wasn’t aware of the underground artist movement during the war, so it’s great when a novel educates us on subjects we didn’t know about before.
The story for me was very good and while I really did like the book, I didn’t love it and it isn’t a story that would stay with me.
I had just finished reading The Invisible Bridge and my Kindle died.
I had purchased The Lost Wife and put it on hold because I had so many books I wanted to read that I had downloaded on my Kindle.
When my Kindle died I began reading The Lost Wife after finishing The Invisible Bridge.
I find out that today 8/11/12 is the 67th Anniversary of the Holocaust - I didn't plan to read these books at this time, but I did and boy they really left a hugh impression and deep feelings for me.
NEVER EVER FORGET!!!!!
Of the many books with a holocaust theme I have read, this is the first that has centered around the Terezin (Theresienstadt) Concentration Camp, located outside Prague.
Certainly the conditions were every bit as grueling and no less horrifying as Auschwitz and Birkenwald, but there were no ovens and while there prisoners produced an amazing amount of art work, much of which is now on display in various Holocaust memorials throughout the world.The book is a novel, but several real life people are mentioned, as well as the art work the children of Terezin produced which was made into an exceptionally beautiful book, I Never Saw Another Butterfly.
I was so happy to find out in the Epilogue that many of the characters in this novel were based on real people... this gave an already wonderful story even more merit! I loved that the novel began with the ending scene... thought that format worked marvelously in helping the storyline! A well deserved 5 star novel!
This was a difficult book to read, but rich with story.
The fictional tale reads more like a biography, a tale of truth than one of fiction.
You know throughout the story, that it is fiction, but the stories are truth.
Throughout the book, we hold onto that hope, knowing that through all the horror, they will find one another.
The deep faith, hope despite the crushing pain the Jews endured, is worth reading about.
For those that struggle with this, there are some swear words here and there throughout this book.
This is not my typical genre but this book really is gut wrenchingly good. I enjoy the author's notes at the end where she explains the reality behind her characters.
Your husband." And that was all it took to suck me in...Set against the backdrop of WWII Europe, The Lost Wife tells the story of Lenka and Josef young lovers who's lives and marriage are torn apart by the Nazi occupation.
The book alternates narrators between Lenka and Josef and we get to learn about both sides of their war experience.
Josef's escape to America, Lenka's time in the camps, a story of love, loss, and life.
The Lost Wife was a wonderful book that was made even better by it's Audible narrators.
It is essentially a holocaust novel, and I read everything I can on the holocaust.
This novel, unfortunately, is written in such a sophomoric style, and the prime element of the plot is given away within its opening pages.
I can understand its being chosen for Long Island Reads; that program does not choose difficult books.
The program is obviously seeking to get many people who don't ordinarily read, or rarely read, to read.
For people who do not, have not read widely on the holocaust, important information will be imparted; they will learn something.
But this is not a well-written novel.
THE LOST WIFEFrom the very first page, “The Lost Wife” is so powerful as to pull you in and force you to keep reading.
I read 48% on my Kindle the first night.Using the technique of the two protagonists as their own narrators keeps them front and center, and makes their story more personal and believable.
Had there been an omniscient narrator it is doubtful that this would have been the case.
This technique renders the many events in their lives and the distances between them, both in time and space, more effectively understood.
Loved this book.
Chapter one sucks you in because you know there is something to look forward to.
I have to be honest, I almost gave up in the beginning.
It is such a sad, heart wrenching subject that it was almost too much to bare.
I read some reviews and everyone raved about it so I stuck with it.
It is a beautifully written story.
I felt so connected to each character.
That you can't put it down because you know from the beginning that there is something to hold on to.
This book with stay with me for a long time.
3.5 Stars if I could, but will round up to 4 stars for making me feel emotional as I was reading the last chunk.Lenka and Josef alternate telling the reader their story, they also switch between past and present.
The book starts out telling you the ending (Which I hated!) and then goes back to tell the story of how it got there.
Lenka and Josef were Jews living in Prague before WWII broke out.
Great book, just wanted more-- especially with the ending!
I wanted more from present day!
I loved the premise of it, and the character development was well handled. Some of the prose resonated with me; but initially, I had a hard time getting into the book. The short chapters and switching POV made it difficult to become fully immersed in the story. But then I ended up very glad to have finished it, not having read a WWII story about the underground artists or from the Czechs' perspective before. 3.5 stars.
This is a Holocaust historical novel based on a true story about the Terezin work camp in Czechoslovakia.
The main characters, Lenka, an aspiring art student, and her husband Josef, are fictional, but the events that are the backdrop of their story are true.
We are introduced to the two former lovers at the rehearsal dinner of the grandchildren; Josef and Lenka had been separated due to the cruel twist of fate due to the events of the war, and each had presumed that the other had been killed.
Dnf @ 58%Who would have thought that a book about surviving the Holocaust could be this boring.
4,5 estrellasReseña completa: http://anitavelabooks.blogspot.com.es/2018/02/los-amantes-de-praga-alyson-richman.html Los amantes de Praga  es una historia dura, pero preciosa, que nos muestra el dolor y el sufrimiento de los judíos durante el Holocausto, tanto desde el punto de vista de las víctimas de los campos de concentración, como desde el punto de vista del judío que huye a otro país con la carga de no saber dónde están sus seres queridos y si los volverán a ver. Si os gustan este tipo de
4,5 estrellasReseña completa: http://anitavelabooks.blogspot.com.es/2018/02/los-amantes-de-praga-alyson-richman.html
  Los amantes de Praga
   es una historia dura, pero preciosa, que nos muestra el dolor y el sufrimiento de los judíos durante el Holocausto, tanto desde el punto de vista de las víctimas de los campos de concentración, como desde el punto de vista del judío que huye a otro país con la carga de no saber dónde están sus seres queridos y si los volverán a ver. Si os gustan este tipo de historias, os la recomiendo muchísimo.
En el BLOG os cuento más. ¿Te pasas?
Despite the somber tone of the book I really enjoyed the story Richman crafted for her characters from their first meeting in Prague to their reunion decades later in the United States.
Personally I would have liked to see more of Josef's life during the war, more of Lenka's after it, maybe a scene or two after their reunion - I felt a little cheated there, but for the most part I was very satisfied with the piece.
On a side note I find it amusing that several of the reviews express surprise and/or disgust that the end of the story is given away in the opening pages of the book.
I have read many books dealing with the Holocaust, but found this one really disappointing.
There is no depth in the characters and even Lenka's description of life in Theresienstadt is rather bland.
The interesting historical part of how the artists managed to let the outside world know what was really going on is mentioned but remains a mystery as Lenka does not get involved in it.
My impression was that the publishers and/or the writer thought "Let's do a book about a tragic love story set against the Holocaust, that'll sell!".
Great opening: widower grandfather of the groom meets widowed grandmother and realizes it is his first wife, with both having thought the other perished in WWII. A love story. Interestingly, her story in Terezin and Auschwitz is told chronologically while his is told mostly in reverse order. Well written, but after many recollections about the strength of their love for each other, she barely recognizes him and we get no insight after the realization.
Mais uma visão sobre a II GG. Uma que ainda não me tinha sido dada a ver, por se passar grande parte, não nos campos de concentração mais conhecidos, mas em Terezín, na República ChecaUm livro que me tinha "passado ao lado", mas que agradeço ter-me sido recomendado porque valeu cada minuto que despendi a lê-lo.
When Josef suggests that they get married, Lenka is set against it, not wanting to leave her family behind.
As their relationship crumbles, Josef desperately wants to live in the present but finds it impossible.
Yet apart of her misses the sight in seeing Josef and wonders if he thinks of as, as much as she thinks of him.This is BY FAR the best romantic, emotional and gripping novel I have EVER READ.
Not only one of my favorites romances but one of the best books I ever read.HIGHLY HIGHLY HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!
