https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/164251.The_Calvary_Road
Honestly, this is a book every Christian should read.
I recently went through it in a Bible study, and was reminded to review it after doing a review of "True Discipleship" by William MacDonald (another good book with a similar theme).Many Christians pray for revival in the Church, and so we should.
What I think we tend to forget is that, in the words of the old song, it must "begin in me." In this brief, but rich little book, Roy Hession helps us find the path of personal revival, which starts at the narrow door of Calvary.
Let me share some of the great thoughts and truths in the book."The Lord Jesus cannot live in us fully and reveal Himself through us until the proud self within us is broken.""The only life that pleases God and that can be victorious is His life-never our life, no matter how hard we try." (which is why we must surrender to His will)"Revival itself is being absolutely filled to overflowing with the Holy Spirit, and that is victorious living.""Before we can enter the Highway, God must bend and break that stiff-necked self, so that Christ reigns in its stead.
In this book, it simply means a life of constant repentance of sin and unhindered fellowship with Jesus Christ.
And in this book, Mr. Hession explains how one can practically go about living such a life.
For me, this book was deeply convicting.
It was doctrine and teaching that I have been able to immediately apply to my life and see the blessedness of living a life of brokenness before the Lord.As other reviewers have stated, I do think that every Christian should read this book.
It's a short book, written simply and compellingly.
And even when we've confessed it all, humilty's the proper posture, but now in the form of gratitude for forgiveness and restored fellowship.• What I don't agree with (and maybe they weren't saying this, but I think it's important to refute the notion) is that brokenness has to look like going around beating our breasts and remembering our sin all the time.
It doesn't stare deeply into the toilet contemplating what's been flushed.• Brokenness, therefore, ends not in a life of perpetually bringing up the same transgressions and beating oneself up over them, but in a cheerful, worshipful humility.Hession's thoughts about interrupted and restored fellowship with God were helpful.
This kind of unbalanced emphasis is a constant danger for me as a disciple of Jesus and as a Christian teacher.None-the-less as I continued to read, the actual cross-centred nature of the book began to become clearer.
The book is in fact based on the sacrifice of Christ on the cross on our behalf, and many times Roy Hession calls his readers to return to the cross as the basis of the entire Christian life.
The Christian life is about constantly acknowledging our brokenness before God and before others.
This ten-chapter devotional is powerful, leading the Christian to ponder their walk with the Lord. I could fill a whole review full of amazing quotes...but it is just worthwhile to read the whole book.There was one main thing I didn't agree with how he worded, and that was his analogy of the dove and the Holy Spirit. I think that if you view the analogy as the dove being the PEACE of the Holy Spirit, it makes more sense, seems more in line with the Bible.
I would recommend this book to anyone. The only thing that bothered me (and BARELY bothered me) is that the focus is entirely on being a bond-servant of Christ, which is true, but the author neglects the truth of also being sons and daughters of God. The relationship part is missing. But, seriously. Five stars. Megan
I have heard so much good things about this book from other books I just had to read it.The main message is that we as Christians need to constantly ask the Lord to reveal to us our sins in his light, confess them, and be drawn closer to him through that process.Overall, it did not disappoint.
"Quite obviously, then, it is utterly impossible for us to be walking in any degree of darkness and have fellowship with God." I think from the rest of the book the author would readily agree the basis of our fellowship with God is the Spirit enabled faith in the finished work of Jesus.
Incomplete thought without We Would See Jesus, also by Roy Hession - if you read it, you will understand why. He even says so in the forward.Here's the gist: The Calvary Road gives a clear understanding of the 'mechanics' of personal revival/sanctification/victory over sin, but many readers came away with a formulaic understanding. Hession realized this, and so wrote We Would See Jesus to draw his readers to the real engine of sanctification, Jesus Himself.This is a good book - but don't take it by itself.
This is really just an "extended version" of Continuous Revival by Norman Grubb. It has some helpful illustrations and is good if you want to dive in deeper into the concepts from that other work.
Wonderful read for every Christian. Great insights for personal revival.
Short little booklet with a great overview of gospel content that I read as mandatory reading when I went on a mission trip to Bosnia.
What a fantastic book. I highlighted a ton and it's a great reminder at how we ought to live.
IncredibleThis will be a book to read every year! Incredibly powerful and convicting! Every believer should read and re-read this book.
Every Christian must read this book!
Every Christian should read this inspirational classic!
A must-read for every new believer.
Well written and much loved so I am re-reading this lil gem!
This is a truly great book. I have read this before, years ago, felt prompted to read it again. Just read it in one sitting, could not put it down. Just reminded me of the true walk of a disciple, the cost yes, but a must walk, to live everyday for the One who was willing to lay His life down for us (me). Great chapters and very challenging, but the need is to take up personally the Cross daily and enjoy Him. Enjoy Father, Son and Holy Spirit.
this is the kind of book you need to read once a year. wow. so convicting but so good at the same time!
This book has really changed a lot of my perspectives on peace, loving others and confession.
Never in my Christian life had I thought about living constantly in a Spirit-filled state.
According to the book, "sin is the only thing that hinders the revival of His Church".
This book forced me to take time to sit and have the Holy Spirit help me look into my heart and purge the sin in my life.
if our peace is broken, then it can only be because of sin.Our church is seeking revival and this book was recommended by my pastor.
It is not an easy read even though the font is so big and the book is small, cause Hession really challenges you to dig deeper into yourself and acknowledge the sins inside.
All the fruits of the Holy Spirit, mentioned in Galatians 5- love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, self-control- what are they but the expressions of the lamb-like nature of the Lord Jesus, and the Holy Spirit wants to fill us with them.
Let us never forget that the Lord Jesus, though exalted to the throne of God, is still the Lamb (the book of Revelation tells us that) and He wants to reproduce Himself in us." (Page 70)
I have read and re-read this classic book on the Christian life multiple times in the past 13 years and find it to be an essential read for any Christ follower.Some of the most significant points in this book discuss and point out the intrinsic correlation between our human ability to be transparent with our brother or sister in Christ and our selves, and ultimately our Lord.
Hession, points to the Cross, and the sacrifice Christ made to point out that He died for reconciliation between our souls and our God, but also for the reconciliation between us and our brother whom we sin against.
This is the third or fourth time I've read this little book. When I feel myself heading 'off' into living this Christian life for myself and in my own strength, I need to go back to this book (or a couple other gems) to be re-grounded in truth. The challenge is to call sin, 'sin' - and he particularly points out the sins of reaction to others' actions. In our confession and brokenness, we experience Christ's cleansing and filling ('Revival'). This is Christ's life, daily offered for us.Reading again... God changing me, again. Going deeper.. 29/7/18
I read it a few years ago, and I read it again this summer.
Every time I read it, I am just so marvelled at how sinful, weak and easily fallible I am.
Yet, God's grace is enough to sustain me, lift me up, and cover me even my hurts and sinfulness.Calvary Road.
The road Jeesus walked to pay the debt of my sins.
The road I need to walk, following the footsteps of Jesus.
The road I will never walk alone because I will be in constant fellowship with Jesus and fellow Christians, heading to Jerusalem, our destination in life.
This book didn't do much for me quite frankly, and to be honest, the exhortations seemed more like the "Jesus Movement" rhetoric of the 70s about the "power of revival" etc.Moreover, the thesis doesn't really scratch beyond whatever surface level reflections a fourth grader is taught in Sunday school. If you want a more sufficient and theologically convicting exhortation back to the cross, put down this book and pick up Dietrich Bonhoeffer's The Cost of Discipleship.Brent McCulley
This short book covers the basics of Christian discipleship. However, it is full of "Christianeese" that leaves you feeling as though you're reading one of those dull missionary newsletters. It's unfortunate that the glorious truths of the gospel are presented in such a bland way. Hession also comes across as a bit condescending, as though he's speaking to a third-grader. Apparently many are helped by it, so for that I'm grateful. I found certain reminders helpful, as well, but I had to continually fight to pay attention amidst Hession's distracting rhetoric.
This book was recommended to me 4 years ago. When I read it I was deeply convicted and knew others would be also. I began (with the go ahead of my Pastor) a weekly Bible Study on this book. It made an impact on all 6 of us. Now, after a while I feel led to begin another study this Fall. Dying to self is never easy but it's what we have to do in order to do God's will in our lives. Appreciate this book very much.
The emphasis is on Brokenness and the laying down of the self life. The fact that personal revival is hindered by sin is brought out strongly. I especially like the point made to constantly press on in repentance, and moving on, each time we fall.Fellowship of like minded people living in the light (being real and open), spreads revival. This book is also available with the name: 'The way of the cross in India. The church that I go to emphasises this strongly. (www.cfcindia.com)
Very good. There was some good, clear teaching in this book about our nature and how we can, do and should respond to God. The chapter on how we relate to others was challenging and helpful; and the image that the Hession's draw about the highway and the role of the cross and the purpose of the blood of Jesus was equally helpful. I'm not sure that their emphasis on the blood of Jesus isn't overdone.
