https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2749148-last-and-first-men
To an author, this book must read like a succession of story settings, and it's not surprising to see many claim it has been a source of inspiration to their own work.
One of the things I liked aside from the bedazzling scope of the author's imagination is the way the fourth wall was broken through the idea that the author himself was but a vessel of communication between a very distant future human life form and the reader.
Don't skip anything in this book, or at least not anything Stapledon has written.A second criticism I read is on the way the "story" is presented.
Rating: 1/2* of fiveI cried "uncle" on p59 of this book, which was part of a group read on LibraryThing; it was written in 1930 or so, it's true, but nothing as ephemeral as passing time can excuse the line:A century after the founding of the first world state a rumour began to be heard in China about the supreme secret of scientific religion, the awful mystery of Gordelpus, by means of which it should be possible to utilize the energy locked up in the opposition of proton and electron.*buzz* you're out, Dr. Stapledon, and thanks for playing our game!

:)Indeed, it's kinda impossible to have those here except in brief glances relying on bird's eye views before necessarily jumping on to the next BIG IDEA and Super-Imaginative setting.For what we have here, way back in 1930, is novel of Future History influencing every big SF author of the day, even influencing Winston Churchill, HG Wells, Arthur C.
Let me do this quick: Eighteen iterations of mankind over a billion years, from the total death of our mankind, the evolutionary re-emergence of the next, the differences, oddities, rediscoveries after soooo much time, the new dreams, aspirations, religions, the different values, before the next mankind dies off.
Last and First Men: The ultimate vision of man’s evolution(Posted at Fantasy Literature)Olaf Stapledon's vision of mankind's entire future history until the end is profound, beautiful, and affecting, and was written way back in 1930.
In my mind, it is one of the most imaginative early SF classics ever written, just as important as the works of H.G. Wells.He touches on so many themes that still resonate today, particularly mankind's potential for both great achievements and selfish cruelty, for deep insight and self-delusion.
During that period humanity evolves through what Olaf describes as 18 different species of men (our present being the "First Men" of the title).
The reason that the book, for all its amazing inventiveness, does not get 5 stars is because the narrative, at times, can be very, very dry.
However, despite that crticism, this is a book that I strongly recommend to all fans of science fiction as many of the ideas and concepts found in modern science fiction found their first true expression in this amazing futrue history.
Indeed, often the prose reads like that of a 19th century natural history text on, say, social insects, albeit very sophisticated ones.The early chapters of the novel are best read, by a 21st century sci-fi fan, as a strange form of alternate history a la, say, Harry Turtledove; in this case, our point of departure is not long after Last and First Men's original publication date, for nothing like World War II and the Holocaust even remotely figures in this extrapolation.
At any rate, the narrative speeds up considerably once Stapledon has dispensed with our own species, the First Men***, and keeps on speeding up until eventually a million years can pass in a sentence fragment.
If next time I’m expected at a party I show up 200,000 years late, it’ll be entirely Olaf Stapledon’s fault for making me think 200,000 years is but a trifling moment, gone in an eyeblink, and no reason to put away the punch and slam the door in my face.In this book, Stapledon - pour yourself a strong one for this - tells the future history of 18 consecutive species of humans over the course of 2 billion years.
Furthermore, it’s essential to fully appreciate the time scale as the book advances, allowing one to reminisce about those first few chapters and marvel at how far humanity has come over the course of billions of years.
(Actually, I had to refer to the wiki to write this review because for the love of god I cannot remember every single descendent of men – there are a lot of details in this giant book.
The story presents you with facts, accounts of the different morals, cultures, and ways of life of the descendants, and it allows you to draw upon similarities or differences in your own experience as “First Men” for reflection on these things.
Man himself in his degree is eternally a beauty in the eternal form of things.
Not all at once of course, I mean it takes two billion years and 300 extraordinary pages from Olaf Stapledon to create this seminal landmark in literary science fiction.
All that is familiar to us, the empires of mind and mammon, nations and names, the languages of Shakespeare and Tolstoy, are simply swept away by the passing of the years; slipping first into obscurity, then passing into mythology, before finally succumbing to oblivion.
When I read this book I developed the distinct feeling that Stapledon may have pushed the human mind as far as it can go, in terms of what it can conceive of in relation to its place in time.
This is truly an astounding novel, which ambition is to tell the story of mankind from the near future to the end of our species, some two billion years into the future.
The beginning of this book can be easily skipped since it's an outdated projection of historical events from the time when Stapledon was writing (around the 1930's).
Until finally the human race reaches it's tragic ending.This whole voyage is, in a way, similar to that of Stapledon's later novel, "Star Maker", but instead of traveling in the farthest realms of space, this is a trip into the furthest reaches of time.
At times this works against the suspension of disbelief, to the detriment of the reader's pleasure.In social and political terms, too, the book is largely concerned with issues that were prominent in between the World Wars but which today seem of little import.Most tellingly of all, we, whom Stapledon calls the First Men, the primitives of humanity, have already achieved nearly all the great feats of science, technology and exploration that in his book take eighteen successive species of humanity some hundreds of millions of years to accomplish.
Get ready to take the red pill.The journey for which Stapledon is our guide is nothing less than the Evolution of Man, not from the past to the present, but from the present to the far, far, far, far, very, very, very, almost nuttily far future.
a sort of conspiracy about deliberately fomented wars intended to affect the arc of the Evolution of Man. But these suspicions disappear in due course as the result of an obliterating level of dilution as Stapledon's "future history" of Man grows wilder, more fantastic, frothily awe inspiring and disorientingly tragic.For some, this book will test your emotional stability.
If I had taken the same mushrooms as Stapledon, I would certainly have given this book five stars.
Stapledon projects his imagination as far into the future as it can possibly go, beginning with his own time (late 1920s/early 1930s) and slowly taking his readers on a journey that details the rise and fall of civilisations, man's evolution through a dizzying array of ages, climates, evolutions, worlds...there are wars, invasions, disasters, triumphs, incredible scientific discoveries.
The book stimulates your imagination in an unusual way though, in that Stapledon does try pretty hard to describe what things must have been like for people living in the various far-flung futures of Earth and other worlds.
Or, in fact, that it deals with European and world history, and plugs into established history at the time of writing.
I found it eye-crossingly boring and almost unreadable, only smoothing out after the establishment of the lunatic World State and later Patagonian Empire.
Each civilization, each human species of Man, is beset by the same tragic cycle of bloom and decay, where the nature of the collapse is baked into the nature of the species itself.
The collapse is usually but not exclusively total, where all wisdom and knowledge of the predecessor has been crushed flat to be rebuilt from scratch.
Published in 1930, when science fiction as a genre barely existed, before the existence of computers, when molecular biology was, at best, in its infancy, when we'd barely discovered Pluto and were only just beginning to grasp the true size of the universe, this mild-mannered man, Olaf Stapledon, a student of history and philosophy and a teacher working in adult education, wrote a book outlining a speculative future history of mankind spanning the next 2 billion years.
It wasn't intended to be a piece of science fiction, in fact Stapledon wasn't even aware that such a thing existed.In the foreword to the first U.S. edition published in 1987, Greg Benford advises the reader to skip the first four chapters.
Remarkable book, filled with enough ideas to generate hundreds of SF novels, which it probably has.
Its obsession with racial consciousness and its insistence on psychoanalyzing entire civilizations feels dated, very 1930s, as the diction.
And the species of human pathology and catastrophe that he inflicts on his imaginary civilizations are too limited for a book with such a scope -- too much of the same, grand, Gibbon-like pattern of collapse in each chapter.
But for sheer weirdness, audacity, and scope, this one is still worth it.
One of my favorite books, but definitely not for everybody, Last and First Men is a future history that reads like one.
The time-scale accelerates as the book progresses, so that subsequent chapters cover centuries and then millennia in a matter of pages.
Truly, it is not a novel, but a philosophical treatise in the speculative mode.There are some errors in Stapledon's science, some of which reflect on the fact that he was not a scientist.
The only individuals named in the book, I think, are Socrates, Jesus, Gautama, and Einstein, all of whom live among the First Men.This is the history of the succession of species of men as they evolve over a span of two thousand million years.
Eons later, man discovers that the moon is falling into the earth and will destroy it.
It enumerates the various species of man, his politics and religion.
But as we may read a history book for our edification, to increase our knowledge, this is fiction, and so it takes an effort to keep with it.
the scope is absolutely epic, projecting farther into the future than I have ever read.
the way the story is told more closely resembles the style of historians, and even though that makes it pretty dry some of the time, it is definitely appropriate.
in many ways it seems like stapledon vastly underestimated our capacity in the present for a comlishing some of these goals.
in other ways, he overestimwtes.
the beginning, in which he projects the course of warfare for the rest of the 1900s, is pretty fascinsting.
there is definitely insight, and perhaps this will extend into current times...
- this maddening, thundering whirlwind of a book traverses 18 races of men, travelling across the solar system and through time itself.
Filled with concepts and ideas that will resonate with anyone who has ever read a scifi book, this masterpiece is overflowing with science, religion, evolution, faith, humanity, philosophy, race, places, cultures, societies and life itself in ways I had never thought possible - much less in a package this compact!A definite must in my view for anyone who claims to have even the slightest interest in science fiction and philosophy and definately anyone with an imagination that likes to be pushed to the limits.
My copy tells me to skip the first 4 chapters all of 70 pages, it's awesome from then on as any outdated repetitive history is deleted 😁Fantastic book not as great as his masterpiece starmaker but almost 😊
I would twin this book with Stephen Baxter's 'evolution', which deals with the same subject in a more biological fashion - Stapledon is more philosophical, his topics are culture and the 'tidal' nature of societies, each rising and reaching an ever-increasing pinnacle before collapsing under its own achievements.
These ideas are not as feasible as Baxter's, though, and are most likely an attempt to convey the puny nature of us, the First Men. One thing Stapledon does excellently is realise the fact that the world we experience is entirely borne of our own senses, and that life need not be restrained by the body-type we happen to have evolved.
An incredible odyssey, voluntarily focused on the "spirit" of successive human species (wrongly called "races" in the book) rather than particular characters.
Most notable to us readers of the 21st century are his apparent incapability to imagine societies which are not patriarchal and where women aren't the only ones to do the child rearing (some "races" have it good because "motherhood is easier" since their children are more self-sufficient and females aren't as "hobbled" by child-rearing as they were before...) - and women are of course never leaders.
In short, one has to be concentrated to read this book, for it may be only about 310 pages long, the story itself isn't your everyday mainstream Sci-Fi. It reads more like a history book, as it describes the history of mankind (the evolutionary rise and fall of 18 distinct races of men, of which Homo Sapiens is the first and most primitive) over a period of 2 billion years.
In a world where everything has to be or go fast, this book asks that you flip the switch in your mind, slow down, and focus.It is a heavy, but worthwhile, read, and you may want to ditch the book aside or stop before halfway or maybe after, but if you take the time and let mr.
In my (still reeling) mind 'Last & First Men' feels to be the apogee of profoundly philosophical speculative fiction, and, clearly, Olaf Stapledon is one of the finest minds to have ever put pen to paper and extrapolate the vainglorious industry of this imperfect beast called man.
From my understanding his 'Star Maker' is said to eclipse 'Last & First Men', but just at this moment that almost sounds like literary heresy; but once the effervescing memory of this exemplary work cools, I plan to gird what mental loins remain and take another heady leap into the gloriously incendiary mind of Olaf Stapledon, a true literary magus.
The Last and First Men is considered by many to be a classic in the science-fiction genre, and now that I've finally read it, I understand why.It is an unusual read in that there are no characters to become invested in, aspect I found refreshing, novel, but which may make it difficult for some to connect to the story.
It covers two billion years of His existence and evolution, His rise and fall, happening time and again.Despite the original construct of the story, I found the book often boring, even tedious.
Man is Music - now that's a moral that I can get behind.Written in 1930, this book covers two Billion years of history, which is far more sweeping than any other epic sci-fi novel.
I especially enjoyed the tribulations of the First Men, with quite a few scary parallels to recent history.After that, the book slows down a bit, despite the narrator apologizing for not covering things in detail.
I felt I was missing some message here, something more than sweeping history.
Perhaps a bit of pondering will help.
A remarkable treatise on the present and aspirational fundamentals of human nature and its relation to our place in the cosmos.
It chronicles the evolution and relocation of the human race, over the course of 2 billion years, employing a cyclical 'rise and fall' scenario.
Leaving aside the visionary and vivid imaginings of our future selves (which in itself justifies reading this masterpiece), the most thought provoking, but ultimately most depressing concept, concerns the minuteness of our present existence in the greater scheme of future and past events within the confines of our finite solar system.
Truly transcendent of the 'science fiction' genre and in its own right a philosphical masterpiece.
The only possible exception is Greg Egan's Diaspora, which reads more like a conventional novel, following the paths of a few individual characters.
First and Last Men reads like a history of humanity as a whole.
Instead of characters, it has nations and species.
Stapledon's psychological generalizations about the human race of various times and places cannot help but seem dated, but the dizzying acceleration of the pace helps make up for it.
I imagine one of the joys of writing a future history was tossing off sentences like "Thus without appreciable change the millennia dragged on in squalid drudgery" and "Europe sank under the Atlantic."
