https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/920576.When_I_Was_Young_in_the_Mountains
An evocative look into the sweet and simple times of days gone by that supports the maxim that home is not a place, it’s a feeling.
A small girl describes her simple life in the mountains, from the title we know that she is looking back to a life a long time ago.
Daily routines are described through the eyes of a child.
The illustrations are mostly nice enough, I found the people were too stylised from my taste and too smiley in every scene.
A snake is killed, which I appreciate might be a necessity if you have a venemous snake near your children, but I didn't like to see it draped across the smiling children's necks for a photograph, that felt unnecessary.
This was a nice story about life long ago.
This book is like remembering where I've never been; it is a warm, gentle and dreamy book that calls my name in ways I can't explain.
The coal-oil lamp, the enamel coffee pot, the fried okra and hot corn bread, the johnny-house, bathing in the wash tub in front of the old black stove, were all part of my own real childhood.
Thank goodness the snake-y swimming hole was not.
But my grandma killed snakes with her hoe, and my grandpa sharpened my pencil with his pocket knife, and I helped shell the black-eyed peas.
I didn't feel quite that content when I was young, but think I do feel that way now.
Sweetly poetic, engaging, with even some humour thrown in for good measure (that for example eating too much okra can lead to digestion issues and long nighttime visits to the "johnny-house"), When I was Young in the Mountains shows the delights (but also hints at some of the struggles) Cynthia Rylant and her grandparents experience in the Appalachian Mountains of her childhood.
The joys of simple country style living, of community, of visits to the enticing, albeit muddy swimming hole are rhapsodically and nostalgically presented, but juxtaposed to the fact that Cynthia's grandfather has a dangerous occupation (a coal miner), that snakes could be a threat, and that taking a bath is a long, tedious process (but for Cynthia and her younger brother, obviously an enjoyable experience all the same).
This book is for everybody, but especially for women who remember being little girls waiting on their grandpas to come home from the coal mines, dirty as all get out, “covered with the black dust.” Rylant takes us back with her to her grandparents’ house in Appalachia, where we can smell her grandmother’s corn bread, taste the fried okra, feel the muddy water of the swimming hole.
It tells the story of what home is.
It tells of home made meals, and longing, and remembering, and of how there’s no place in the world like West Virginia for stargazing.
We no longer pump our water, nor do we have to heat it on the stove, but the hot water tank is pretty small so we're aware of our water use.
Most of the time the wash tubs and the tubs for heating water are used for other purposes.Our stove isn't black cast iron.
It's a cream and green enamel cast iron that originally belonged to Dad's grandma.
(The youngest kids say that it belonged to their great-great-great grandma.) Our mountains have plenty of mosquitos but not many snakes.
I've always labored under the impression that little kids will only appreciate a book if has bold colors, a catchy rhyme, and perhaps a furry animal or two. Which is why I'm surprised each time my daughter pulls this one off the bookshelf and hands it to me to read to her. The story, illustrations, everything about this book is lullaby-gentle, and yet it mesmerizes her in a way unlike many of the other "busy" picture books I've read to her. Proof, I guess, that Cynthia Rylant is a true storyteller and that even peaceful little books have their place.
It was named one of the 1984 Caldecott Honor books, and was the first book written by Cynthia Rylant.The story portrays what appears to be an eight year old girl and her younger brother, living with their grandparents in the mountains.
From the depictioin of the 'johnny house', to the description of how bathing took place, we see through the eyes of the main character, how wonderful her life truly was.The artwork captures the people and surrounding areas beautifully.
We see the love and the closeness shared by the family portrayed.The book was wonderful and truly set the stage for Cynthia Rylant's other book, "When the Relatives Came".
This is a very sweet children's book that caught my eye today while shelving books, so I sat down and read it instead.
We've read so many of Cynthia Rylant's books; we've finished her various series and now we are on the hunt for individual books that we haven't yet read.
The narrative is poetic, simple and speaks to an idyllic time.
It reminds me of the wonderful memories of my own childhood and I am sure that time has likely softened the harsh edges of reality and that she has chosen to highlight the warmest of her memories.
Overall, we really enjoyed reading this story together and look forward to reading more of Ms. Rylant's many books.
This book, rather than telling a narrative, depicts warm, reminiscent scenes of the author's childhood in the mountains.
Some of the scenes include: sharing her grandmother's southern cooking around the dinner table, hugging her grandfather when he comes home dirty from the mines, and witnessing her brother's baptism in the creek.
This book is very family oriented and has a strong sense of place at her grandparents' home.I loved this book, and I thought it was so beautifully written and illustrated.
I had many connections with this book, such as the southern cooking and attending a small church.I would use this book both in the classroom and with my own family.
I remember this book from the old "Reading Rainbow" series.Humane parents note: There are a couple of pages that describe Grandma killing blacksnakes with a hoe, and three children posing with an especially large dead blacksnake.
(As a child, I was rather disturbed by these passages.) Today, we know that killing harmless snakes is senseless...rat snakes are nonvenomous and they provide an important service eating rodents that threaten crops and food stores on the farm.
This content could provide a decent discussion topic...that in the past, we didn't know all the things we do now, and often behaved irresponsibly.
Rylant's childhood memoir stretches to reach all readers, young and old, to ponder their own up-brings and experiences with grandparents. Paired with poignant illustrations, Rylant's memories come to life in this pleasant picture book.
Wow, what a phenomenal story. This picture book actually makes me fall for romanticizing the Appalachians! Crazy! I wanna be a mountain-folk. All seriousness, this book has heart and oozes with charm. It's so totally 80s it brings a tear to my eye.
Such a beautiful journey to the past. We all enjoyed this one.
When I was young in the mountains, Grandmother spread the table with hot corn bread, pinto beans, and friend okra.
I promised never to eat more than one serving of okra again.Premise/plot: When I Was Young in the Mountains was Cynthia Rylant's first book.
Each page begins, "When I was young in the mountains..."My thoughts: I LOVED, LOVED, LOVED this one.
When I was young in the mountains, we went to church in the schoolhouse on Sundays, and sometimes walked with the congregation through the cow pasture to the dark swimming hole, for baptisms.
Text: 5 out of 5Illustrations: 3 out of 5Total: 8 out of 10
Summary: This is a fiction picture book.
The story is about a little girl who lives in the mountains.
It is about her life and how she loves living in the mountains.
She wanted to stay in the mountains because she loved it there.
I really enjoyed this book and I enjoyed the pictures.
They could write down what they think it means based on context clues and then once everyone is done they can have a whole group discussion about the vocabulary words.
Not poetry, but poetic. Nostalgic."Later, in the middle of the night, [grandmother] walked through the grass with me to the johnny-house and held my hand in the dark. I promised never to eat more than one serving of okra again." Ha.3.5 stars.
The narrator of the story is a woman who takes readers through a nostalgic journey of her childhood memories from when she was a little girl living in the mountains.
One thing that I want to note is that there isn't much diversity between the character illustrations in this book.
There is one page where all of the male characters have the same haircut and hair color and are also wearing the same outfit.
The little girls also look identical and are wearing the same dress and pigtails.
This book could be used to teach children about what life could be like for people living in the mountains.
This story is told by a girl, maybe eight or ten years old, who lives with her brother, grandfather, and grandmother in the Mountains.
She talked about supper time and having to go to the bathroom outside at midnight accompanied by her grandmother, after having a second serving of okra.
This story is beautifully told about a girl and her day to day routines, that to some may seem boring and distasteful, but from the way the author describes her activities, you know it is anything but boring to her.
This is another Rylant book that I love!
But the loving relationships, attending church together, eating dinner together are all very much a part of my childhood.
I knew that a husband and wife weren't related biologically and so it was fascinating to me that often husband and wife looked so much alike.
I love how Rylant captures small details that help demonstrate the ordinary moments of her childhood and weaves them together to create this beautiful tapestry of her life.
I love the repeating refrain, "When I was young in the mountains" and have used it as a writing prompt...changing it to when I was young in the city/desert/etc.
Rylant takes us back to a simpler time when she was growing up in Appalachia, and highlights many of her experiences and adventures living on the mountain.
One can almost smell the home cooked meals and envision the coal smudged all over her grandfather after coming home from the mines.
Historically speaking, this book highlights some major themes of living in the 1960's-like going to the general store for butter, working in a coal mine, and going to church in a schoolhouse.
The characters are believable for the time period, seeing as this is recounting Rylant's childhood memories.
This 1983 Caldecott Honor book tells a simple story of a time when seemingly small things made a large impact on a child's life.As a young woman, Rylant lived in the Appalachian mountains.
This story is a tribute to those special years.Grandfather arrived home with a blackened face from the coal dust of the mines.
Grandmother made hot corn bread.
At night, grandmother took the little child to the bathroom outside in the woods.
There is a rhythm to this book that is gentle and evocative.
Rylant truly captures the warmth and love of this family living in the mountains.
The kids bathed in a swimming hole and would fetch water from a well, grandma made cocoa over an old black stove, grandpa sharpened pencils with his knife and their family did most everything together.
I could relate to the joy that being in the mountains brought this family.
Just as the narrator said, "I never wanted to go anywhere else in the world..." I too feel that content when I am at my grandmother's cottage surrounded by my family.
1983 Caldecott Honor - Favorite Illsutration: I loved it after the bath, when the kids are snuggled by the stove to get warm and the Grandmother is making hot chocolate.
It reminded me of when my sister and I used to run in the sprinklers until our lips were blue and then Grandma would make us hot chocolate to warm us up!This was a gentle story about kids and the simple life lived in the mountains.
I enjoyed the story, but it's not really something I can relate to.
The beautiful illustrations matched the tale and made for a sweet, fun read.
Less a story than a series of recollections on growing up in rural Appalachia, When I Was Young in the Mountains is a gentle celebration of grandparents, simple pleasures, and childhood. The illustrations are rich in earth-tones and have a folksy, rustic quality to them. Also, the book's title acts as a refrain of sorts, and the repetition and rhythm of the work should appeal to youngsters. Overall, it's an enjoyable book that might be especially appropriate around nap time.
Wow. Cynthia Rylant's first book. She has written quite a few of them, too. I knew from the first page that this book was based on not just a life in the mountains, but a life in the beautiful Applachians (aka WV). The book is based on the author's memories of her time spent with her grandparents in the mountains. It's a reminder of the old, nice, slow, easy-going ways of some of the mountain folks. If only all of it could be that idealistic still.
Cynthia Rylant's fictional memoir is simple and sweet, recalling all the reasons she loved living in the Appalachian mountains as a child. Apparently, they also lived very simply, without a lot of modern conveniences. Diane Goode's illustrations are simple and sweet as well, and each illustration ably depicts what is in the text, as well as a few details that are not mentioned. The people's faces are very expressive as well.
My daughter and I love this author. And this is our favorite tale. It's about loving the place where you are, and all the small things that give significance to a place, and make it unique. The simple details and lovingly crafted illustrations are truly evocative of the beautiful Appalachians.
Cynthia Rylant is a wonderful author. She tells about living in the mountains without modern conveniences - about going to the outhouse & other scary things like snakes in the swimming hole. My mom lived her childhood in the mountains too, not Appalachia, but the western Rockies. She has few pleasant memories of her younger life. I like this book because of it's realism.
