https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75504.The_Collected_Poems
i fell in love with two men in my undergrad senior seminar.
it was on wallace stevens and t.s. eliot.
when i teach this poem to students in my undergrad class, they struggle.
my two favorite pieces from this collection were obviously "the emperor of ice cream" and the other was "the idea of order at key west" which i think i loved so much because it reminded me of the end of "the love song of j.
the sea, the singing, the questions posed - but i think that's up to the reader to figure out.regardless, i love this collection.
i deeply love this collection.
Autumn RefrainThe skreak and skritter of evening goneAnd grackles gone and sorrows of the sun,The sorrows of sun, too, gone .
the moon and moon,The yellow moon of words about the nightingaleIn measureless measures, not a bird for meBut the name of a bird and the name of a nameless airI have never -- shall never hear.
And yet beneathThe stillness of everything gone, and being still,Being and sitting still, something resides,Some skreaking and skrittering residuum,And grates these evasions of the nightingaleThough I have never -- shall never hear that bird.And the stillness is in the key, all of it is,The stillness is all in the key of that desolate sound.
In my life no poet has meant more to me than Wallace Stevens.
It took years of blinking incomprehension before I really found an entry point (actually, I highly recommend the wikipedia page for Harmonium, a great introduction).
He doesn't make things too easy, and yet once he opens up to you you can practically make your home inside his oeuvre.
An immensely generous poet, Stevens teaches you how to be alone, a lesson it's necessary to learn and re-learn your whole life.From "Notes Towards a Supreme Fiction":As if the waves at last were never brokenAs if the language suddenly, with ease,Said things it had laboriously spoken.
For Easter. A friend told me this is maybe the best poem in the English language, quoting bits of it as we were driving along. Had to look it up. Here it is.Wallace Stevens (1879-1955)Sunday Morning 1Complacencies of the peignoir, and lateCoffee and oranges in a sunny chair,And the green freedom of a cockatooUpon a rug mingle to dissipateThe holy hush of ancient sacrifice.She dreams a little, and she feels the darkEncroachment of that old catastrophe,As a calm darkens among water-lights.The pung

all night. once. i stayed up and read this book cover to cover. looking for a poem i thought i remembered about dancing.
I don't know how to rate this, or how to review it. It's like TS Eliot. 8 poems out of 10 either make me feel stupid or make me hate poetry. The other 2 knock me flat on my back.
Stevens' poetry just makes me feel so calm, even though the content in his poetry is not in fact anywhere near the realms of calm.
I learned much more about Stevens' poetry by reading it myself than what I learned from uni.
Like, without reading basically this whole collection, I would have never learned that Stevens is, for the most part, a Romantic.
He inherits so many of the Romantic feelings, ideas and philosophies but he still manages to stay modern at the same time.
This book of poetry combines an earthy sensibility coupled with a philosophical speculation that appeals to me. My favorite book of poetry.
He often writes about the power of art--specifically poetry--to transform Reality.
She sang beyond the genius of the sea .
And when she sang, the sea,Whatever self it had, became the self That was her song, for she was the maker.
Ramon Fernandez, tell me, if you know,Why, when the singing ended and we turnedToward the town, tell why the glassy lights, The lights in the fishing boats at anchor there, As the night descended, tilting in the air, Mastered the night and portioned out the sea,Fixing emblazoned zones and fiery poles,Arranging, deepening, enchanting night.
very fond of the harmonium and ideas of order collections. some particular favorites: "another weeping woman""from the misery of don joost""the worms at heaven's gate""anecdote of men by the thousand""of the surface of things" "the place of the solitaires" "the curtains in the house of the metaphysician" "six significant landscapes" "tattoo" "the wind shifts" "farewell to florida" "the idea of order at key west" "anglais mort à florence"
From pt. V of his poem "Things of August" - 'The thinker as reader reads what has been written.He wears the words he reads to look uponWithin his being,A crown within him of crispest diamonds.A reddened garment falling to his feet,A hand of light to turn the page,A finger with a ring to guide his eyeFrom line to line, as we lie on the grass and listenTo that which has no speech,The voluble intentions of the symbols,The ghostly celebrations of the picnic,The secretions of insight.
There are secrets there.My favorite poems, and great ones for newbs to start with, are:Sunday Morning (“Death is the mother of beauty.”)Thirteen Ways of Looking At a BlackbirdGubbinalEvening Without AngelsA Postcard From the VolcanoThe Poems of Our ClimateDutch Graves In Bucks CountyAnecdote of the Jar**Like this review?
I'm marking this book as "read," although I'm not sure I've read every poem.
I fell in love with Stevens' famous "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird" during my freshman year in college.
The images were striking and beautiful, even though I didn't understand what the poem was about.
I "understand" the poem more now, but there will always be an element of mystery to it, and to all of Stevens' poetry.
Stevens' poetry is difficult; I don't see any other way to put it.
But even the ones I don't understand fascinate me.
Yes, Stevens' poetry needs savoring...absolutely!
Thus he posits himself within a ternary structure compatible with the Platonic conception of beauty and the attainment of virtue through the pure embodiment of virtue as such, giving form to itself rather than mere copies, just as the poet composes his work as a testament to itself, since it already is what it aims to represent.Like Berserk, Stevens derives from the ancient source of spiritual energy said to have taken hold of shamans, prophets, warriors, and artists.
No more was she.The song and water were not medleyed soundEven if what she sang was what she heard,Since what she sang was uttered word by word.It may be that in all her phrases stirredThe grinding water and the gasping wind;But it was she and not the sea we heard.For she was the maker of the song she sang.The ever-hooded, tragic-gestured seaWas merely a place by which she walked to sing.Whose spirit is this?
But it was more than that,More even than her voice, and ours, amongThe meaningless plungings of water and the wind,Theatrical distances, bronze shadows heapedOn high horizons, mountainous atmospheresOf sky and sea.
Blessed rage for order, pale Ramon,The maker's rage to order words of the sea,Words of the fragrant portals, dimly-starred,And of ourselves and of our origins,In ghostlier demarcations, keener sounds.
His work evokes something of Lucretius, as well as the Romantics, but it's framed in terms of the Modernist quest, part response, part direction.For Stevens, experiences are not encapsulated by snapshot instances, or at least, such instances are not in any form-perfect way reducible to language, whether in the moment or through later reminiscence.
If poetry is this reduction, not only is it -beyond hard-wired directives which take precedence- infinitely mutable according to what me might learn is important, but is always conditioned to be a residue of human nature.There's a very nice essay on Stevens which introduces this aspect (especially in relation to Romantics like Wordsworth and Keats) in Modernism: A Short Introduction.


Superb poetry from an extremely unlikely source. I think I read this after it was mentioned in Ken Kesey's Sometimes a Great Notion. This book deserves a finer commentary when I have time to consider at the moment, but I was astounded by the impression which he made on my first reading: it was simply like another world had opened up before me... and the one in which I had been living became a mere shell of reality. It was one of those fearful moments when you cannot be sure that your entire value system has been turned upside down.
I am re-reading this now. It's a bit wordy, but full of an elegant, Godly style. In the reading, I am among Greeks -- gods and ephebes --, strange flowers, outdated seraphs, the vulgate, Ozymandias, and constantly, the Poet struggling between two states to find a "Supreme Fiction."Maybe it should be four stars?? No. There's too much in here.
Wallace Stevens. Read him. Now.
When I'm feeling uninspired, I reach for this book. "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird" is likely the best known poem, but there are many to love here. A beautiful collection.
I understand more each time I read these poems.
As always with Wallace Stevens, poems to savor and enjoy over a lifetime. It's impossible to say I have "read" the poems, as in completed this edition; rather, it is poems to be read over and over for their vivid language and unique beauty. I prefer his shorter poems and find most of my favorites in his first book, Harmonium. For his longer and later poems, it is "authentic difficulty" as Harold Bloom would say. In all, his poems are like strolling through a museum rich in impressionistic artworks. Enjoy the stroll and take endless afternoons.
at over 500 pages, this feels like it must be a fairly comprehensive overview of Stevens' work.
Indeed, every time i turn a page its a 50/50 crap shoot whether the poem ends or continues.
In spite of that, in spite of feeling like I'm not understanding exactly what's going on, I do get a sense that he's not just writing the same poem over and over again.
It feels to me like he's pushing himself and his poetry into all areas of life.
But if there's another volume that offers more context, more explication, I might prefer that.
I was not familiar with Stevens work until reading Harold Bloom's discussion and presentation of some of his poems in Bloom's anthology of the best English language poems.
I loved what I read there and quickly put Stevens on my list.
I almost think individual Stevens poems are more resonant for me than a collection of his work.He does have powerful and interesting use of language through metaphor and symbol.
But rarely in this volume did an entire poem grab me, in the way that some poets work does.
The river is fateful,Like the last one.
The steeple at FarmingtonStands glistening and Haddam shines and sways.It is the third commonness with light and air,A curriculum, a vigor, a local abstraction .
. .Call it, one more, a river, an unnamed flowing,Space-filled, reflecting the seasons, the folk-loreOf each of the senses; call it, again and again,The river that flows nowhere, like a sea."Almost every day I run on a trail along the Farmington River and see that glistening steeple.
I came across this book on one of my stays at the Sylvia Beach Hotel in Newport, Oregon.
Included in the rooms were personal entries in the volumes of diaries that stretched back many years.
The entries ranged from the joy of an experience to the deeply introspective writings of a personal struggle.
Guests read to the sound of the incoming waves of the great Northwest in a room that overlooked a long, wide beach.
It was at the Sylvia I encountered Wallace Stevens, Jane Austen and other authors.
The Emperor of Ice CreamCall the roller of big cigars,The muscular one, and bid him whipIn kitchen cups concupiscent curds.Let the wenches dawdle in such dressAs they are used to wear, and let the boysBring flowers in last month's newspapers.Let be be finale of seem.The only emperor is the emperor of ice-cream.Take from the dresser of deal,Lacking the three glass knobs, that sheetOn which she embroidered fantails onceAnd spread it so as to cover her face.If her horny feet protrude, they comeTo show how cold she is, and dumb.Let the lamp affix its beam.The only emperor is the emperor of ice-cream.That's deep you.
I want to know why he had a fistfight with Hemingway in Florida.I wonder what it was like working for him at the insurance company.
