https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3000014-my-lady-of-cleves
Anne of Cleves is my favorite of the Henry wives, so I naturally enjoyed her positive portrayal.
I liked the suggestions that she was not all good--her want for vengeance and Henry's hardship and humiliation was interesting; I wish the book had delved into it a bit more.
Over all, this book earns 5 stars from me because of its attention to character and because I feel it did Anne of Cleves justice---something that history often fails to do.
It's a great book, and I thoroughly enjoyed it and highly recommend it.
Margaret Campbell Barnes focuses on wife #4 in her historical fiction novel, “My Lady of Cleves”.
Surprisingly, this is not the case with “My Lady of Cleves” as the novel immediately highlights Anne and jumps into the beginning of her marriage to King Henry.
Thus, some of the novel is simply “for fun” and not to be taken seriously.The characterization of Anne in “My Lady of Cleves” is quite rich as Barnes gives her various layers and proper growth.
Although Barnes writing and story composition are not without flaws (plus there is a blatantly poor ending); “My Lady of Cleves” is still an enjoyable read that is less fluffy than most similar-topic novels.
She and Hans Holbein have had a mutual attraction from when he first met her when he was asked to paint her portrait for Henry, nothing ever comes of it, but it's there all the same....Anne comes to realise during one of Henry's visits that Hans has been having an affair with one of her ladies, and Henry shows no sign of wanting to go home to his young new wife...and Anne, who has no desire of ever being Henry's wife again just once wants him to find her attractive and not the 'Flanders mare' he once called her.
Although I imagined Anne de Cleves was someone I would like to read about, looking back now I think I was wrong. She probably was not controversial enough to merit a whole book. She made a good supporting character in other books I read and liked in the past. I ended abandoning  Margaret Campbell Barnes's  My Lady of Cleves in favor of more interesting reads many times. Just went back for a quick browse and can say that, although fairly well written, it was simply dull.
My Lady of Cleves covers the life of Anne of Cleves from right before her marriage to Henry VIII until his death in 1547.
The story opens with an agitated King Henry VIII, talking with his ministers about his need for a new wife after the death of his third wife, Jane Seymour in childbed.
Among the candidates are the Duchess of Milan and the Cleves Princesses.
In seeing the freedom that Anne as a “woman” had, that had to have been a big impact on Elizabeth I, who always said she would never have a master.My Lady of Cleves was an interesting look into a woman that survived marriage to Henry VIII.
Lastly, since Anne is only on the central stage for about six months, the narrative gets a wee bit repetitive from time to time, and if I weren’t already aware of who the players are, I think I might have gotten a bit confused about all the characters who were doing and saying things offstage.However, I did really like the book.
Anne is a very likeable person, despite her being a bit too good to be true, and I particularly enjoyed Barnes’s portrait of Henry VIII who is not the one-dimensional monster of Philippa Gregory’s imaginings, but instead a more complex figure whose weaknesses cause him to do monstrously cruel things.
I've read many books about the Tudors but don't think I've ever come across one before that is solely about Anne Of Cleves.
As she wasn't Henry's wife for very long, she is normally lumped with Katherine Howard story.
I have a feeling the love for Hans Holbein must have been purley there to give the story a romantic edge, as I've never come across this before in any other book about the Tudors, though Hans makes more sense than when I read in another fiction book, she was in a relationship with Katherine Howard!
Urged by his counsellors to marry again, Henry chose Anne after seeing a painting of her by Hans Holbein.
Even if a little dated, My Lady of Cleves is a very solid book, especially because of its historical accuracy (with some liberties which work really well), and because of its likeable characters.
I also really liked Mary and Elizabeth, and their relationship with Anne.The most peculiar aspect of the book is Anne's love story with Hans Holbein.
They were quite well suited and Hans's feelings for Anne explained cleverly the contrast between his rather lovely painting of her and Henry's immense dislike for the woman.
Anne of Cleves takes center stage in this story, chronicling the last few months of her life in her home country, her brief time as Queen of England, and finally ending with the death of Henry VIII.
I also love how it comes to the point near the end of the story that Henry seems to realize, even if he doesn't admit it out loud, that he was a fool to not see Anne's true worth when they were still married, and a double fool to throw her away.An outstanding, brilliant story that brings the perhaps least-remembered of the wives of Henry VIII to vibrant life.
This is the kind of book I love to read. I was definitely very comfortable reading about this period of history because I have read so much about the Tudor's. I was quite pleased to read a book about Anne of Cleaves because I had not seen a lot about her. I also liked her the best of Henry's wives because she was smart and lived to tell the tale. Very good book.
Thoroughly enjoyed this novel of Anne of Cleves, Henry VIII's 4th wife. Didn't know much about her and in this telling of her story, I really liked her and felt she was the ultimate victor of all the wives. I'd like to read a non-fiction work on her.
Dutch translation of 'My Lady of Cleves'. Enjoyable read about my favourite of Henry's six wives, even though I suppose loads of it is made up. Recommended for lovers of Tudor fiction.
Margaret Campbell Barnes’ My Lady of Cleves is a novel about the often neglected fourth wife of Henry VIII, and really, the only one who managed a good life post-Henry.
Anne of Cleves not only got out alive, but she remained on good terms with her difficult former husband, wrangled a decent financial settlement out of him, and had a comfortable and relatively long life.
Her Anne is a woman who loves little things, is kind and generous, but knows herself to be too tall, large-boned and plain of face, much less attractive than her married older sister Sybille, or her younger, pretty Amelia.
In a way, I felt guilty about giving this book 2 stars.
After all, the author was born in the late 1800s.
It’s almost like stomping on her grave.
And maybe some of the sentences, i.e.
But to be fair, Dickens was also born in late 1800s.
So, in view of equality, I gave this book 2 stars.
Or that she always seemed to show up at very crucial historical events like a fly on the wall.
So, for those reasons (grave stomping and all), 2 stars.
Maybe Hilary Mantel has just totally spoiled me...
This is another historical fiction novel that I have surprisingly enjoyed as it is not my favourite genre to read.This is told from the perspective of the Anne of Cleves which is not one of Henry's wives that I know much about.
It was a very enjoyable read and continues to the end of Anne's life (as she was only married to Henry for a short time anyway)A huge irritation to me when reading historical fiction is the language and the way the characters are acting as it is so anachronistic.
She wasn't ravishing like Nan Boleyn, nor the mother of his son like Jane, nor yet his "rose without a thorn" -- but at least he had admitted his mistake and tried to make amends for calling her a Flanders mare.This just might be one of the best Tudor-centered historical fiction novels I've ever read.If anyone kept up with my updates, I was basically gushing about this book the whole way through.
When I sensed it coming on, I started getting nervous about it, about if it would be cheesy and badly done, because I really wanted to like this book since Anne of Cleves is never written about for historical fiction and is just a footnote in any book about Henry VIII's wives or life.
This book painted Culpepper in a rather sympathetic light and it’s a whole different version of him than what I am used to, and I like this one much better.What I enjoyed most about this book is how Anne gracefully became an outsider of the court, to a well beloved one.
So, it will take a bit to get used to, but it’s well worth the time.This was one of the better Tudor books I’ve read, filled with great character development and most importantly, shows some of the characters in a very different light.
Written in the 1940s and re-released in the 2000s, this is one of the few novelizations of my favorite of the Tudor wives, Anne of Cleves---the one whom Henry VIII married based on a 2-inch miniature painting and then spent their brief marriage trying to figure out how to put her aside, eventually annulling the marriage based on the (false) basis of Anne's being pre-contracted.While the style of writing does age the book, that wasn't the biggest reason I couldn't give it five stars.
It spins Anne's story from her home in Cleves to the court in England where most of Henry's waiting ladies want her to fail even before she arrives.The awful ordeal of being married off to someone she had never met who had already disposed of 2 wives, must have been very hard on a young woman.
Holbein had a different view of beauty from that of the English court and in this story insists he has never embellished the picture of Anne but simply painted what he saw.
How different Henry's life may have been if he had given her more time while still his wife.
After a bad first meeting, they married anyway, but almost immediately, Henry was taken with Katherine Howard, so Henry and Anne’s marriage only lasted six months.
This is a fictional account of their life together, and Anne’s life afterward, up until Henry’s death.I thought it was really good.
I’ve read a little bit about Anne of Cleves, but most of what I’ve read stops after her and Henry’s divorce, so it was fun to read what her life might have been like afterwards.
For that reason, I found that part - the second half of the book - a little more interesting than the first half, though I did enjoy the entire book.
Anne of Cleves has always fascinated me.
Or was she an intelligent & independent woman who set her own path?This book definitely takes the latter viewpoint of the 4th wife.
Whether or not this is an accurate historical representation is open to debate, but the character in the book is one that is lovable.The one qualm I had with this book is Henry.
The author tries to make him likeable...
but, well, I kinda have taken to a great dislike of Henry Tudor.
Anyway, the story is about Anne -- and the author's style makes me want to read her other books.
I am in love with Margaret Campbell Barnes. Her writing style is phenominal and precise. I love that she wrote an entire book centered around the least known wife of Henry VIII. Anne of Cleves was an amazing woman with many strengths. After reading this book, I feel as though Ms. Barnes captured her in a new light that needs to be shed upon her.
When I saw that a novel was written about Anne of Cleves, I was excited but also, a little bit sceptical as I thought 'She was only married to Henry VIII for 5/6 months'.
However, once I started reading the novel, I fell in love and deeply loved the book!Margaret brings Anne of Cleves to life, instead of viewing her as the 'Flanders Mare', you'll definitely think of her as 'the one who got away'.
Margaret doesn't depict Anne as the Flanders Mare wife who gives into Henry with their divorce!
This is definitely the best novel that I have read on Anne of Cleves and would happily read this book again!
Margaret Campbell Barnes’s works have often cropped up in historical fiction lists, but this is the first book of hers that I’ve read and I’ve been very pleasantly surprised.
Although My Lady of Cleves was first published in 1946, it doesn’t feel remotely prim or dated: only a certain elegant restraint hints at its age.
It feels very much like a Norah Lofts story in that sense.
Yes, it’s yet another Tudor historical novel, but Barnes rings the changes by focusing in on the least familiar and most appealing of Henry VIII’s many mistreated wives: Anne of Cleves.
Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed the read once it picked up but towards the end of the book it really slowed down a bit.
It was great reading a story about the Lady Cleves and how she possibly out smarted King Henry Viii & I say that because every time Lady Anne exerted some independence she quickly was back in the spiders web of naivety when it came to Henry, Holbein & even Jane Seymour's brother.
I also enjoyed how the author wove in the stories of Henry Viii's exes as well as the relationship lady Anne had with his children.
One of the rare, if not only, books solely about Henry's fourth wife, Anne of Cleves. All I previously knew about Anne came from other historical fiction where she was a minor character and from Alison Weir's wonderfully rich biography about all of Henry's wives. I think in the wake of his other "more sensational" wives, Anne gets lost in the annals of history. However, her story is far more fascinating than it seems. Although Barnes was quite liberal in her fictional embellishments, this was still a fabulous and absorbing read.
I loved this book!
I am a huge fan of Philippa Gregory and love reading about the Tudors, but was getting tired of Anne Boylen, when I saw this story about Anne of Cleves.
Probably the least famous of Henry VIII's wives, she usually doesn't take up much space in stories, so I was interested to see what this author had to say.
I'd love to think that Henry later regretted not staying married to her, when in fact she was probably the kind of Queen he needed as he got older.
Anyway, every bit as good as Ms, Gregory's books.
I quite liked the theory that Anne of Cleves and Hans Holbein were secretly in love with each other (and that was why he made such an apparently flattering portrait). I was disappointed by the scene where Anne and Henry had a one night stand after their marriage had already ended, but otherwise this novel's characterization of Anne was extremely charming.
Unlike Henry's other wives, ot many books are written about poor Anne of Cleves. This turns her into a compelling, relateable character that is quite admirable in her own way. Some of the descriptions of characters do repeat themselves multiple times throughout the book, but this was easy to forgive when presented with the overall quality of the story and characters.
I read several of Margaret Campbell Barnes' novels, which we'd now of course call historical fiction, many years. I enjoyed them greatly. She was a talented writer, and I suspect her books would still hold up today.
