https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/978689.They_Thought_They_Were_Free
As Mayer points out, "Responsible men never shirk responsibility, and so when they must reject it, they deny it." This is precisely what the American people are doing at the moment, rejecting responsibility for a situation that they created and want still.They Thought They Were Free is a prophetic book in an authentically biblical sense: it articulates a fundamental flaw in democratic society, namely that such societies, like every other, from time to time embrace pure evil without even becoming aware of it.
"They wanted it; they got it; and they liked it."In 1952, American journalist Milton Mayer moved his family to Marburg, Germany, a small town near Frankfurt.
We also know the occupation didn't turn out the way he feared, and that Germany is one of the most successful, stable and prosperous democracies in the world."Mayer's rambling final chapters are weak, less interesting than the earlier ones, and dated."The above quote is from the new afterword added to the latest re-release of the book (2017), which I highly recommend reading (I often skip such things).
I've seen the rise of Nazism described as a "warning from history" on many occasions.Well this book is that warning, written in clear and concrete terms soon after the events occurred by people who experienced them directly, most of them Nazi sympathizers. "What happened here was the gradual habituation of the people, little by little, to being governed by surprise; to receiving decisions deliberated in secret; to believing that the situation was so complicated that the government had to act on
To live in this process is absolutely not to be able to notice it—please try to believe me—unless one has a much greater degree of political awareness, acuity, than most of us had ever had occasion to develop.
I was introduced to this book through Reddit in the r/politics subreddit where, I am pleased to see, it is often quoted by people who are aware of the dangers of the current populist regimes such as are seen in Trump's America.
"But the one great shocking occasion, when tens or hundreds or thousands will join with you, never comes.
He apparently got it.I've approached the German experience from 1933 to 1945 with similar questions and believe that They Thought They Were Free has given me more plausible insight into their thinking than any other book I've ever read.
First and foremost, the majority appear, circa 1950, to have felt that the reign of the National Socialist Workers' Party was, except for the war, generally good.
Indeed, Mayer cites one person, a man of an aristocratic background, who himself felt relieved of alienating formalities by the leveling effect of National Socialist leadership.
I came across this book by accident.
It was on GR Friend's to-read list and the title and theme somehow got me interested.
The book, published ten years after WW2, is truly surprising for a reader in the 21st century.
I've read several books with witnesses' accounts but this one is exceptional.
The reasoning behind their actions is what keeps me reading and thinking about the book while not reading it.
For me, it is a measure of a good book.
I guess this book is food for thought if you consider all the shifts taking place in the contemporary world.
You should read this book if you think that you are free.This is an old book, originally published in 1955, but it is more relevant today than ever before.
And all the crises and reforms (real reforms, too) so occupied the people that they did not see the slow motion underneath, of the whole process of government growing remoter and remoter."You should read this book if you think that you are free.
Seven years after the collapse of Hitler's regime, Milton Sanford Mayer, an American Jewish journalist of German heritage, traveled to Germany in an effort to understand how and why Nazism had developed in Germany.
And through repeated interviews with 10 ordinary Germans, he concludes that he did develop "a little better" understanding of why they chose Nazism.
As Mayer's friend pointed out the challenge faced by average Germans at that time, and by peoples across the world today, as governments are taken over by authoritarian, corporatist, or populist/nationalist regimes is how do you recognize and resist.
I was sort of reminded of the admonitions heard in the US of A when catastrophe strikes – natural or man made – “Go about your Business” “Don’t worry” “Go shopping, Go out to Eat” “Do what you always do to occupy yourself.” In Germany, in these days it was not for the ordinary german to be concerned about anything – the State would take care of them.Mayer discusses, at length the topic of how the Jewish people were part of the German experience off and on through the history of the Nation.
They knew he was American, but not that he was Jewish.Unsurprisingly, they almost uniformly minimized the scale and nature of the Nazi regime's crimes, and most claimed to have known little or nothing about what was going on (although things they said at other times about the arrests and disappearances of local members of the Jewish community contradict that.) In some cases, their stories changed almost every time he talked with them.
Great book, if not a bit frightening. Frightening because you can really see that tyranny can happening anywhere and at any time. It really puts you in the shoes of ordinary Germans. Would I really stand up to tyranny if it meant the death of my wife and children? Also interesting is that many Germans referred to the "30 Year War" WWI and WWII were, in many Germans' minds, the same war.
You kept your head down stayed out of trouble and obeyed and your life would go on.
Best live your life maybe join the party to get ahead.
You can always make fun of some of the absurdities of public policy in private but don't publicly question the authorities best stay out of trouble.
The people that were being targetted probably had it coming to them anyway.
And even if people get taken away for making trouble that is none of your business.
Don't make waves, keep your head down and live your life.
Such was the lot of ordinary people in the Third Reich.
I found it a little difficult to rate this book.
The first part, relating personal interviews with former Nazi party members was fascinating (and a little troubling when looking at some of the events in terms of modern developments.) The second half of the book, though, read like an attempt at psychoanalysis of an entire country's population that just didn't work for me (although he did admit there might be "a few exceptions" to some of the generalizations.) The final section made a lot of predictions about Germany's political future which, in today's context, were interesting.
If he tries to carry more, he collapses; so, to save himself from collapse, he rejects the responsibility that exceeds his capacity." Thus few USians protested the internment of American citizens of Japanese descent during World War II, and even the Supreme Court said it was OK."National Socialism," Mayer writes, "was a revulsion by my friends against parliamentary politics, parliamentary debate, parliamentary government – against all the higgling and the haggling of the parties and the splinter parties, their coalitions, their confusions, and their conniving." Representative government was new in Germany when the Nazis came to power.
Milton Mayer writes wonderful profiles of ten Germans who lived through the Third Reich.
I liked Mayer in these chapters, but liked him less in the opening and closing chapters when he writes, not so much about the individuals caught up in the war, but about the nations involved and especially the United States.
Mayer is a wonderful writer and thinker.
I'd like to read his other book, What Can a Man Do?
If you have a chance to read They Thought They Were Free, you will not be disappointed!
I really enjoyed this book, but it does take a bit of effort to stay engaged in what's going on. The author's style isn't very direct until later in the book.This book really opened my eyes to how the Germans were manipulated very carefully by the National Socialist movement. It serves as a chilling reminder that this could happen to anybody, that anything less than standing on principle regardless of the consequences makes a people vulnerable to usurpation and slavery.
Mayer - An American Jewish journalist - performs what may be nearly a supernatural feat of grace as he profiles 10 ordinary Germans shortly after the war - my '10 Nazi friends' as he puts it. Mayer quotes the prayer of the publican as a warning to all of us. The book is powerful and revealing of human nature, but in an unexpected way. The Nazi problem is indeed a human problem.
Illusion can very easily overcome ones reality. In these times in which we look at the state of the union, we would do well to remember this. This book is eerie because of how blinded they were to the reality of what they were supporting.
Mayer's discussion of the experience of his Nazi sources, which forms about the first half of the book, is its best part.
Mayer stresses the historic German respect for (or, one could say, subservience to) authority and legality as the basis for their acceptance of, and in some people, enthusiasm for, National Socialism.
The new authorities are the technocratic experts of the EU, whose rule supersedes not only national governments but even the European Parliament.
I don't know, but it does appear to me that the supine acceptance of bureaucratic regulation by the EU mirrors the response of the ordinary Germans in Mayer's book to Nazi rule.
The author lives for a time in postwar Germany, hiding from his "10 Nazi friends" that he is Jewish, to examine how average citizens could become supporters of a brutal dictator.
The books strength is in the profiles and interviews with these 10 men (no women were profiled), who each have supported the Nazi movement to varying degrees, from local strongmen to go-along-get-along types.
The later sections of the book tended to go a little broad-brush in examining the "German character," and the section that dealt with the potential direction of Germany should it become unified have been proven wrong, so they lost me.
Working through this book was a very intense exercise.It requires you enter it with an objective perspective that then must be balanced by an empathy of the characteristics of the timeline.I believe any reader would at several points in this book be challenged to look into themselves and question many of their misconceptions. The exercise is made all the more riveting while trying to relate to his 1955 Orthodox Quaker Pacifism cultural perspective/solutions with the 50 years in cultural development that really accelerated after this book was published that made up a lot of our modern society.
An unsympathic, somewhat unemotional view of the average German from 1933 - 1945. The book was written by a Jew, posing as a non-Jew, who interviewed average Germans in the early 50s. The German system was "ripe" for National Socialism (Nazi Party). Under Hitler, the average German was fed, had a job, and became Someone. Hitler was their "Father" figure. At some point, the state becomes more important than the individual, and this can be the result. One can easily draw several parallels between German of the 30s and our own post 9/11. Highly recommended.
This book is scary, entertaining, and enlightening, all at the same time. The author is an American journalist who was very curious (as many people, since the end of WWII, have been) about how Nazi Germany could have happened. He had his publisher obtain a university teaching position for him at a northeastern German university (unnamed) and the book evolved from conversations with former Nazi friends. Written in 1955, it still has the power to shock, amaze, and educate. Much can be learned from this book. I have recommended it to all of my friends.
A Jew posing as a non-Jew writes an interesting, scary, and sad book about the Germans of 1933-45. Written after the war, Milton Mayer befriends 10 Germans to gain understanding of their action, thoughts, and roles in the years of 1933-45. Although this book is written without real feelings toward the Germans, I felt it almost gave the underlying vibe of sympathy. What was not surprising was the fact most of these Germans turned their heads and still believers of a "good" Hitler.
He searched for insight about the German soul under the Nazi state, but discovered man.Today Hitler and the Nazis are a byword for evil, but for Meyer's Germans, this was not so.
Judging from his friends, Meyer believes that most Germans knew little about the atrocities that would be committed under that threatened mindset; for them, Hitler was the man who had cured unemployment, who had restored national pride; such was his stature in their imaginations that even when it became obvious that the NSDAP was leading Germany into ruin, he was beyond reproach.
(Think of how patiently we all endure the indignities of the TSA despite its manifest silliness.) People want to get on with their lives, and a lot of mischief from the government can be done before outrage boils over.But the surprising part of this book was the extent to which these German Everymen still believed that National Socialism was fundamentally right for Germany, even while living through the squalor and deprivation of the immediate postwar period.
Milton Mayer traveled to Germany 10 years after the end of the second world war and conducted extensive interviews with a group of "ordinary" Germans living in Kronenberg. This book provides some answers to the question of "how could this have happened?". Opression came gradually, affected "the other" and in the meantime life for the average German (Aryan) improved under the Nazis during the 1930's. This book also leads to the some uncomfortable questions for the reader, especially "what would I have done"?I highly recommend this book for anyone interested in history or in human psychology.
Chilling and Indispensable To learn from history, it's not enough to understand events. It's critically important to understand human weakness -- and how quickly our institutions and ideals can fail us. This book is both surprising and unsurprising. To read it is to understand that not only can it "happen here", but it can happen more quickly and easily than we might imagine.
This book... hurt. I can actually feel how I'd have been killed. (I'm transgender.)That said, I think this is probably one of the most important books I've ever read. It's a hard lesson, but we must stand against those who would turn us against each other, as early as possible, and with the strongest possible compassion and love.
How can a democratic nation with a highly educated populace devolve into barbarism and tyranny? Well, it was barbarism and tyranny to some...for others it was order.Well written in both style and content. A powerful reminder of what has happened and what can happen again.
"Men who did not know that they were slaves do not know that they have been freed."
