https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18054698-the-power-of-a-praying-wife
I read it cover to cover in a very short time period and thought it was great.Then we moved to AZ, I was invited to a women's Bible Study that just happened to being to doing this book.
It was life changing at that time, as things were a little rocky and this book gave me the hope and tools I needed to see me through that period of time.
But God gave me a desire to pray for and a love for my husband that at the time I didn't even think was possible.
The main value in this book for me was (1) it spurred me on to pray intentionally for my husband more regularly and (2) the prayers at the end of each chapter provided a good tool for prayer.
Of course I want that, but the Bible is filled with examples of godly people with godly spouses who were not blessed on earth (see Hebrews 11) because they were waiting for the Unseen Kingdom.
I would love to see a book written with prayers guiding a wife to pray for the realities of THIS Kingdom for her husband.
I am not a slave, I will not work my butt off all day long come home to a dirty house, and then throw on some langerie and try to romance my husband because he is the man of my house, hog wash!
If he doesn't want to clean or take care of the house, which is what I did when I stayed at home, and would do if I would stay at home again.
Probably the best book to help a marriage with God's blessing.
I'm reviewing one chapter every Wednesday on my blog. Check back each week for a link to the latest chapter: Introduction: The PowerChapter 1: His WifeChapter 2: His WorkChapter 3: His FinancesChapter 4: His SexualityChapter 5: His AffectionChapter 6: His TemptationChapter 7: His MindChapter 8: His FearsChapter 9: His PurposeChapter 10: His ChoicesChapter 11: His HealthChapter 12: His ProtectionChapter 13: His Trials
Actually, that is one of the best things about it, its holistic approach to protection through faith.The Power of a Praying wife is a great guide for women who love God and love their husbands, and who want to help them through prayer.
The book is also a good lesson in relinquishing control and an exercise in faith that God will listen and respond to prayers, making this method more effective (and less frustrating) than arguing or nagging.Critics of The Power of a Praying Wife suggest that the book is backwards in terms of gender roles, but this perspective misses the mark.
There seems to be an unhealthy tradition to place the blame on the woman and the entire burden and responsibility upon her for the success of her marriage.Not only that, this book only applies to a very narrow sector of married women in the world.
Unfortunately this book has a strong flavor that the problems in a marriage are up to the woman to fix, and that she is to totally sacrifice herself to met her husbands every whim.
This book is very unbalanced in placing all the responsibility for the marriage on the wife.
This book serves as a wonderful resource book.
I've read it from cover to cover.
I've read it several times.
And, I've referenced it several times.
In my personal experience, I can definitely serve as witness to the POWER of a Praying Wife.
In a nutshell, the theme of the book encourages the reader to allow God to handle your marriage.
Any improvements you witness in your husband's life (from his health to his job and spiritual life) will come from God, alone!
This book reminds me that the best witness to anyone (not just your spouse) is modeling after Jesus.
The author got me thinking about things to pray about for my husband, that I had never thought of before in regard to topics, not substance.I found the author used quotes/verses from the Bible a little too often (if that's possible!).
She would use an example of someone (usually her husband, of course!) who she prayed for regarding the particular topic and explain how her prayer was answered in the future.
Of course that's possible, but I felt she was saying it was her prayer, not God's power, that made the difference.
I've owned this book for years.
I've read it a few times, but it truly was not until this third time around that the words actually pierced my spirit and renewed my soul.
If you've read the book and find it to be so-so, hold onto it and be obedient for when your spirit man tells you to pull it out again.
Stormie is truly ministering in this book.
But a year or two later I can go back and read that same scripture and it will have me shouting out praises as well as, "I get it now!
Thank you, Jesus!" This is an "I get it now!
Thank you, Jesus" book.
This book is broken down into 30 one-day aspects of a man's life (i.e. his work, his relationships, his reputation).
There are some thoughts from the author based on scripture, and a prayer at the end of each day's selection which comes directly from the Bible so that the reader is praying the scripture verses.
I found this to be a tremendously helpful tool in my marriage as I focus, not on myself, but on my husband and tha challenges he faces each day.
(Incidentally, there is also a book entitled The Power of a Praying Husband, and The Power of a Praying Parent)
This book and other Stormie Omartian books have been a huge influence in my life, in how I pray for my family.
I've read and used this book as a hand book to my marriage (next to the Bible of course).
Stormie really hits on the truth , and the truth you find out about yourself when you read this is life altering.
I've grown soo much from using the prayers in this hidden "treasure" given to me by a friend who loved me enough to show me the light.
It's about keeping your eyes on the true lover of my soul and let G-d be the saviour of the love of my life.
It really enabled me to let go and direct my gaze where it belongs.
I read this book when my husband to be gave it to me 10 yrs ago. After being married now for 10 years, many pages have fallen out & been put back but I still use this powerful resource almost every day to fight for my husband. Everyone is under attack from the enemy. I'm so glad i've learned how to fight through prayer & not to fight my husband anymore.
This book was so helpful. I recommend it for those interested in strengthening their prayer life.
Absolutely fabulous read.
Great resource with scripturally-based prayers for knowing how to pray for one’s husband.
I found it to be helpful not only in praying for my husband but also for other people in my life and for areas of my OWN life that the topics applied to.
It works as a 30-day devotional due to the short length of each chapter/topic to pray about and actually made me grow in my prayer life so I would recommend this book to anyone who is married.
Following up on the insights and prayers of The Power of a Praying® Wife (more than 3.5 million books sold) 100 brand-new devotions, prayers, and supporting Scriptures offer a praying wife fresh ways to pray for her husband, herself, and her marriage.These easy-to-read devotions will increase any wife’s understanding, strength, and peace, as well as provide her with perspective on the situations and challenges she faces.
And each prayer will help both husbands and wives be more attuned to the Holy Spirit so they can do what’s right without allowing negative emotions or unclear thinking to get in the way.A must-have for anyone wanting God’s best for this most important relationship.* * * * *This review copy was provided by NetGalley along with Harvest House Publishers but the opinion expresses is my own.
Stormie Omartian is a wonderful prayer and Scripture teacher, even through the written word.
I have learnt so much from reading her books.
This book literally helped me to turn a bad situation in my life into a good one.
The teaching in this book is truly inspired and anointed and I go back to this book again and again and again and my copy is falling apart.
The book is written like a devotional, 30 daily teachings with relevant scriptures.
I can't thank Stormie Omartian enough for being open to the power of the Holy Spirit and for writing this inspired work.
This book is such a wonderful resource for wives!
Every woman needs this book!Stormie's sweet spirit and passion for prayer comes across beautifully and you feel as if she is guiding you step by step on this new journey of praying for your husband in ways you may not have thought of before.
I highly recommend this book to keep on your bookshelf and read over and over again.
Not only will it change your prayer life, but it will take your relationship with your spouse to a whole new level of spiritual intimacy.
I can't wait to explore more of Stormie's titles!
I love this book it has truly helped me in my prayers for my hubby. He has truly come along way God is awesome and has done great things in his life and is still at work thats to being a praying wife.
I should probably buy a new copy, my first copy was stained with coffee and missing a few pages from continued use and I gave my second copy away. I learned a lot about how to pray for my husband from these pages and where to look for peace in every situation. Highly recommend!!!
I received this book to read and review. I have read the book Power of a Praying Wife before and this is truly a great companion for that book! AWESOME Book!
It gets two stars because, yes, you should pray for your husband. Other than that, she makes a LOT of assumptions about what women are like, what men are like, and what a marriage should look like. Also about how prayer works. I’m surprised this book is so popular.
The author actually devotes one third of the book to devotions and prayers for the husband, and one third of the book to us as wives and a third to our marriage.
I usually never read a devotional from cover to cover, and its no different with this one, I instead use the table of contents to lead me to topics that are relevant to my marriage and have found the prayers and scriptures very useful.Each chapter is short but has plenty of substance, because of the insight provided by the author.
This title was the first one that I purchased over a year ago and I can say it helped more that any other book so far.
Prayer is an important part of my life and it was important for me to learn when and how and to what extreme I need to be praying for my future husband.
I know it seems like you should just pray and all would be okay-who needs a book for that???
Well, there are so many things that need to be prayed for that you just don’t think to cover.
As they say, relationships, especially marriages, are works in progress.
This book gives ideas & solutions to maintain and nourish a couple's relationship.This book counsels the wife to strengthen the marriage at all times with prayers...
for oneself, and for the husband.
There are many tools here that may be used to aid the goal of keeping a strong relationship between husband and wife.
In a nutshell, the secret is to have the right attitude in praying, that is --to have the purest and sincerest intention when praying, and utmost trust in God's saving grace.
Because YES, everything is possible with GOD.
Even though I finished this book a couple months ago, I find myself going back to it to look up topics and Scriptures that it talked about.
I increased my rating to five stars since it's content has stayed with me, and I continue to apply it to everyday life.This book is a must read for every wife.
I wish I had read it 11 years ago when I first got married.
Just yesterday I saw the fruit of these important elements, when I was praying for a work situation my hubby had to deal with.
She just spontaneously offered it to me with the recommendation that "it's a beautiful book for life." Little did I know my friend's thoughtful gesture would provide the guidance I desperately needed to turn my shotgun wedding into an amazing love story and marriage.
Though not always easy and often with extreme difficulty, I applied the principles contained within The Power of a Praying Wife daily.
If you're looking for a practical tool of relationship restoration, look no further than The Power of a Praying Wife.
The whole "Lord change me." deal is VERY convicting and I often think of that prayer when I really upset about something that's going on in my marriage.
"A woman's wisdom gives her patience;it is her glory to overlook an offence." I'm not saying that everything needs to be like that in a marriage, but what if I did truly overlook the little things that bothered me day in and day out about my husband?
So, the prayer of my heart again today is..."Lord, Change ME!"
Most of the things people were complaining about, I didn't really run into, as the audio was abbreviated.The book is broken down by topics based on specific things we can pray for our husbands about with regard to his life.
and some things just really didn't apply to my husband (all men are different, as much as we like to lump them together), but overall, it was really great and PRACTICAL, which was lovely.
I liked the prayers she prayed at the end of each section, which served as an example of the specificity with which we can pray for our husbands.
