https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/458581.The_Beloved_Stranger
It's so refreshing to read a sweet, Christian romance novel. This wasn't the deepest story but most romance novels aren't. It was a quick, pleasant read and a good reminder that even in the worst circumstances, God has a better plan for us than we have for ourselves.
Sherrill finds out as she's preparing for her wedding that her intended groom has been unfaithful.
What happens next is what makes this story so enjoyable.I loved Sherrill's attitude.
I love the 'stranger' and the different storylines.
It's interesting that we follow the jilted groom and his new bride, who turns out to be a fairly likeable character in her own right.
Overall, this is a fun story, still very strong in the Christian message (preachy at times) but still sweet.
And most of all, I like how our heroines in these books are kind of scrappy - not what you'd expect given when the books were written.
This was such a sweet book. I loved how it jumped right into the story, you didn't get bogged down with lead up or backstory. I did feel like the romance was a tad fast, because they haddn't known each other that long, but it was still really good. Grace Livingston Hill's books are always refreshing to read.
For 5-15 pages the main character, Sherrill, relates some events to her elderly aunt in which the reader is already VERY familiar.
There is really little romancing going.
I would have liked some character development.
Sherrill got more and more annoying as the book progressed.
She acted like a little kid A LOT.
Sherrill's ex has his own little side story, which was boring.
I felt as if the author had little to say about her main character and tried to entertain the reader with their dull side of things.
I like this one because so many of Grace Livingston Hill's heroines are simpering, blushing flowers who have more looks than sense, and are quickly overwhelmed by the evil world outside only to be saved by a man.
Sherrill seems to at least have a brain on her--though she gets taken in by the jerk she's about to marry (haven't we all been there), she does at least have the sense to ditch him at the altar when she catches him in the act--and she does it in such a marvelous way (although pretty sure you couldn't get married and then write up a new license today, heh).
And she doesn't get saved by the man--he's there for support but she gets through it herself.
It was so sweet. I love how he saved her that dreatfull day and i love how he introduced her to Christ. Yeah maybe he should have visited more - but then he wouldnt be a stranger, maybe the affection should have been more descriptive - but then it was written in 1933, so yeah at that time even if the Author wanted to be descriptive I dont think he publishing company would have allowed it. So I am glad that instead of focusing on the phisical aspect she focused on spiritual and made an awesome book of it!!
Read in February, 2012---I've probably read this more than any other Hill novel (with the possible exception of "The Substitute Guest"). Such a great story!There are editing gaffes in these "gently updated" editions that drive me nuts (for example, in this one, they changed the original "Mrs. Battersea hove into view" to "Mrs. Battersea hovered into view"--for heaven's sake, "hove" IS a word, and moreover, a much more perfectly descriptive word in that scene!)...but...unless a reader is an obsessive GLH geek like me, they probably won't notice. :)
Grace is a great writer. she brings live to what writes. i am so happy that my mom gave one of books when was a young lady she has helped me to live closer to god in my life. i will be happy to give my young niece and my younger great niece them both some of her books to them. if you have young lady in your life a good book to start to get put your mind to rest and know that she is readomg great book.
Copyright 1933 - check it out! After reading the first few pages i thought it was almost too sappy to continue but I am glad I did. Sweet story with great characters - people with integrity, recognizing the importance of marriage and commitment.
The real kind of love.Sherrill finds out the hard way that her fiance had a wayward heart. Little did she know that greater love awaited, not only of a godly man but best of all a close relationship with God himself. A beautiful story of love and salvation.
Very refreshing to read Entertaining spiritual uplifting
great read
Bleck! Too much forced romance and the jilted "heroine" Sherrill made me want to vomit. I abandoned this book because I couldn't stand spending another minute with it.
Another Grace Livingston Hill book - one of 3 in an anthology called Wedding Treasury. 1920's Christian romance books still in print today.
light, fun, quick read
Great book.
You can read my review at... http://forhisgloryandpraise.wordpress...
bored from the beginning, I couldn't continue reading
I really liked this story..... very cute and light read... enjoyed it allot!!!
Enjoyed it
Halarious in it's sentimentality.
I devoured GLH novels when I was a teenager and am pleased with these reprints. Gorgeous covers and none of that "updated for today's reader" nonsense.
Not the most amazing of Hill's works, but there is something so soothing in her writing. Something so sweetly old-fashioned and God-honoring.
CUTE!
A gallant stranger helps a bride when she realizes her husband to be is unfaithful.
A cute story. A bit far-fetched but well written and enjoyable.
The story opens with Sherrill making last minute bridal preparations before her limo ride to the church to marry Carter, the exciting and endearing man of her dreams.
Carter tears himself from Arla and departs for the church.
The ladies pull off the big switch in record time and rush off to the church with the groom none the wiser, until Arla meets him at the altar.
Meanwhile, Sherrill is watching the ceremony from the church balcony when Graham Copeland enters the story.
Carter and Arla go off on Sherrill’s transatlantic honeymoon cruise, and they find neither to be the prize they had hoped for.
The story stretches my credulity, but was actually handled quite well. I liked that she did not drop the story of the bad bridegroom, but carried it through and gave him hope for redemption even though she realistically did not have it happen before the end of the book. I would have liked more contact between the hero and heroine before the HEA, but they were both so nice that anyone could fall in love with them.
Reading a Grace Livingston Hill is like having Freddy’s for dinner. It’s junk food and comfort food at the same time. My grandmother had boxes of these romances in her basement and I would read them over summer visits as a kid.
I don't know of anything negative to say about this book, besides the sometimes lack of commas. How does Grace Livingston Hill write such good romances??
