https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/201004.A_Manual_for_Writers_of_Research_Papers_Theses_and_Dissertations
An edge of your seat, nail biting thriller!
As a genealogist researcher, I needed to learn how to source my research citations. Very important if you are writing a genealogy piece! This book taught me how in a clear and uncomplicated style. It is updated and has been a classic source for many a research writer. Full of good sensible advice for the writer.
Why does this Turabian lady get to say how I document and cite my history papers and why, why, why can't English, History, and Education people just get together and pick one style they can all agree on?! (frustrated sob)
I have used this book as a reference since I was an undergraduate student years ago.
I am a bit ashamed to admit, however, that this is the first time I have read the book through from cover to cover.
Reading this book through has been a great opportunity to examine the logic behind the genius of the Chicago/Turabian system up close as well as to take a much deeper look at my own writing process and the ways in which it can be improved.
I recommend this book for anyone who wants to improve their academic writing and research process.
A very useful guide to research thinking. You don't need to be doing postgraduate studies in order to benefit from this book. It is equally useful to anyone seeking to write an informative and research based articles. However it is a guide, you cant just go on and read it without implementing the ideas in it. I would probably return to it whenever I work on a paper until research methodology is ingrained as a habit.
How can you write a review about a book that tells you how to write reviews?Here's my effort:1. It's a fine book.2. It will wear you out.3. It is filled to overflowing with minutia.4. I think my soul is emptier as a result.I also feel an overwhelming urge to now properly cite my source:Turabian, Kate Larimore, Wayne Clayton Booth, Gregory G Colomb, and Joseph M Williams. A Manual for Writers of Research Papers, Theses, and Dissertations: Chicago Style for Students and Researchers. 8th ed. Chicag
How can you write a review about a book that tells you how to write reviews?Here's my effort:1. It's a fine book.2. It will wear you out.3. It is filled to overflowing with minutia.4. I think my soul is emptier as a result.I also feel an overwhelming urge to now properly cite my source:Turabian, Kate Larimore, Wayne Clayton Booth, Gregory G Colomb, and Joseph M William‏s. A Manual for Writers of Research Papers, Theses, and Dissertations: Chicago Style for Students and Researchers. 8th ed. Chicago IL.: University of Chicago Press, 2013.
Recommended by all my Professors this semester, Turabian's book is a classic for anyone charged with writing essays in Chicago style formatting. Still, locating the text online can be more relevant in cases such as Youtube video citation or blogs which are not covered in this edition. While it seems a bit easier to hunt these instructions down online, the hardcopy is a useful tool to have in your collection. Still crossing my fingers that the academic world would just PICK ONE format and use it universally, already!
It’s been well over 15 years since Kate T.
Our relationship lasted about five years.
I have a hard time with conforming to authority and she proved to be a tough task master.
It made for a challenging relationship.
And I was perfectly okay with our relationship as it was.
I’ve spent a good bit of time with her recently.
It looks like we are in for another long haul in our relationship.
This time, she is going to have to be right by my side.
I am going to need her more than ever.
She still demands conformity.
She still demands conformity.
I loved the reviewer who called this a "nail biting thriller'!! Hilarious! I also agreed with the reviewer who wondered why history, English, and other fields can't all use the same style. I have written papers in 4 different styles! As far as manuals go this one is much like all the others. I can't be very enthusiastic because I dislike the very precise structure of all the styles even while I understand the need for them.
This book was one of the required reading materials for my last history course, and I read it as I was working on my research paper. Frankly, I prefer the MLA format, and Turabian can take this pile of you-know-what and jump in a very deep lake with it. Preferably one with a sink hole. To the center of the earth. I hope I never have to use this book again.
This is a must read for anyone that wants to do research reports,thesis and dissertations. This book forms the defacto-standard that all the other writers manuals for thesis, research papers and dissertations follow.
The bible. Quite simply.
I used this throughout seminary and found it to be a very useful tool for every paper I wrote. Wish more people would take writing this seriously.
This book got me through my PhD dissertation. If you need a "How To Write" this is it. It has solid examples, great trouble shooting methods. I still have it and use it regularly.
Useful.
Read key chapters and use others as a reference, great material!!
Very helpful.
Excellent tool for writing papers and doing research.
Yep I actually read it. Can't say that I enjoyed it, but the 8th edition is very helpful. In seminary I used the 6th edition which lacked the very helpful Part 1: Reacher and Writing from Wayne Booth's Craft of Research. It is really excellent and covers matters of planning, style, grammar, revisions and even strategies for productivity. This is a massive improvement over previous editions.I still hate Turabian (not Kate, I'm sure she was lovely). :)
This book is absolutely essential to citing sources correctly for Chicago/Turabian style in detail. It is much more valuable than any online version. The first ten chapters are very helpful in effectively making and defending a claim. It is well worth the read, and I wish I had read it my first year of undergrad.
I hesitated to even count this as a book I’ve read. I did read it, aside from the strictly reference portions, as part of a graduate course in research methods. That being said, it’s pretty much strictly a reference work.
Great reference book. Turabian provides examples of nearly every item you need for research and writing. I wish I could say that I did not have to read this book but it is an excellent reference tool.
A must manual for researchers, also recognized by UGC in India
Required reading for MA in American History.
Helpful informative book for those who use Chicago style.
An excellent reference for all things related to the DETAILS of an academic paper.
Let's be honest not a nail biting thriller, but as far as how to manuals it was very helpful and useful. I still reference it now while writing.
A necessary evil.
Turabian drafted a lot of guidelines to help students understand how to write, cite, and formally submit research writing.
The Manual retains three-part structure, leading off with an overview of the steps in the research and writing process, including formulating questions, reading critically, building arguments, and revising drafts.
Part II provides an overview of citation practices with detailed data on the two main scholarly citation styles (notes-bibliography and author-date), an array of source types with contemporary examples, and detailed guidance on citing online resources.
Everything in this book is very positive and insightful for those writing or executing a research.
Turabian is sort of the poor man’s Chicago Manual, and it worked well enough at a time when you couldn’t just login to your University’s library webpage to find short style summaries, but it’s not the same as having access to the whole Manual.
It’s interesting how much space is devoted to simple formatting issues, but this probably is because in 1987 most term papers were being written on typewriters; subsequent editions probably allowed for the auto-formatting of word processors to a far greater degree.
It includes an excellent index, as one would hope in a style guide, and has a numerical reference system similar to Chicago’s.
This is more of a memento than a reference work to me, today.
