https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1932981.Transformation_in_Christ
This is what Alice von Hildebrand recommended in the preface and it was good advice.It was much like having personal spiritual direction or going on a bunch of short retweets.
This is not an easy read, but it is so worth paying attention and learning from it.So easy to be caught up in his heroic biography, but he also a master of the spiritual life.
He writes like somebody who inhaled the faith from the start.Looking at my records I last read this in 2000.
That is way too long between reads.
Of particular note is his fair and true assessment of both the excess and defect aspects of a given virtue or vice as he covers nearly every common, modern behavior of man which hinders his growth in Christ.This is not a quick read; it is best digested in slow and steady segments.
Each chapter is neatly subdivided into little sub-headings with one or a few paragraphs to explain a particular point making it easier to pace oneself through the book.
In order to be truly transformed in Christ you need to want to change, you need contrition, self knowledge, true consciousness, simplicity, recollection, humility, confidence in God, patience, meekness, mercy, sorrow, sobriety and self surrender.
It is a mind blowing book and while there were several times when I had no idea what he was talking about - the man's a genius - what I did understand was incredible.
Not only is the man a genius, he's clearly a saint.
This is one of the best books I have read in my life and I will probably spend the rest of my life going back and learning from it.
This is one of the most outstanding intellectual anthologies of the coherence and distinctiveness of the Christian life that I have yet come across. Von Hildebrand is writing from a perspective of attentiveness to the essence of Christianity as it is presented in the excellence that virtue and holiness imply. His method in considering each dimension of Christian existence is to proceed first negatively by distinguishing true excellence from its imitations or popular misinterpretations. This is extremely helpful, insofar as the mind usually proceeds in the same way as the eye: it perceives through contrast, light and shadow. Highly recommended.
Dieses Buch ist eine der besten Bücher, die ich überhaupt gelesen habe.
In diesen Zeiten, in denen das Christentum auf eine Ethik oder sogar auf einen politischen Moralismus reduziert wird, zeigt dieses Werk Von Hildebrands die tiefste Substanz des christlichen Lebens, in seiner ganzen Komplexität, aber auch in seiner intimsten Einheit.
En estos tiempos en los que el cristianismo ha sido reducido a una ética o incluso a un moralismo político, esta obra de Von Hildebrand muestra la substancia más profunda de la vida cristiana, en toda su complejidad, pero también en su más íntima unidad.
Life-changing wisdom in plain terms. The book gives a sort of step-by-step insight into what exactly it looks like to grow in holiness.
He even delves into less than proper motivations accompanying ostensibly good behavior and approaches that make one re-evaluate his own life.When the going gets tough in your reading, the reader must get tough in turn and plow through -- it is well worth the effort.
When he does so, it makes a great difference.I hope to read it again some day and that time actually outline the book.
A masterpiece.The book is "Transformation in Christ." The thoughtful and prayerful reader will not help but grow in his relationship with Christ by reading and implementing in his own life this book.
See Dietrich von Hildebrand: http://www.hildebrandlegacy.org/See Google Books: http://books.google.com/books?id=7R3L...
Recommended by James Schall in Another Sort of Learning, Chapter 16, as one of Eleven Books on Prayer, Belief, and Reflection.Included in the "Spiritual Reading" section of Fr. John McCloskey's 100-book Catholic Lifetime Reading Plan.
Hildebrand works to unveil the inter heart of the reader and to move you to a greater submission to the work of Christ in your inter self. You may feel like Hildebrand is writing to you and he knows you personally. I believe this book will be a classic for centuries ahead.
Rare it is for me to find a book of spirituality and prayer that truly speaks to me, that isn't pious twaddle or unicorns farting rainbows and sunshine. Hildebrand's treatise is grounded and realistic, yet joyful and brimming with the love of God. I shall be returning to this book often.
Si no lo has leído tres veces, te estás perdiendo mucho.
Very challenging but well worth the effort
This took a long time to get through, but the wisdom of Dietrich Von Hildebrand should be sipped like a fine wine.
