https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93520.The_Promise
Ms Buck was one of the first writers to introduce China to America and The Promise gives a uniquely Chinese point of View to World War II.The Promise tells a fairly accurate version of the early months in China after Pearl Harbor.
There are several opinions about how much Chiang Kai-shek (here barely hidden behind the title the Chairman) prioritized the defeat of the Japanese compared with challenges of the competing Chines Warlords and the Chinese Communist Party.Ms Buck is perhaps naïve about the Chinese soldier’s loyalty, discipline and fighting record.Ms Buck is reasonably accurate about the war in the Burma Thailand area in early 1943.The specifics of Chinese fighting ability and the details of the China Burma Theater are less important the interactions among the main characters and the many combinations of secondary characters.The main topic from my point of view is that of racism.
This really was a very sad story. But hopeful at the same time. And I learned a lot - this book led me to looking up a lot of things to figure out people and places. Noting the title, this passage really hit me:"And promises were nothing but words, and words were bubbles of air, falling easily from men's lips and broken and gone as though they had never been."
The more I read, the more I like Pearl Buck's books.
Pearl S Buck is one of my favorite authors because of the ability she has to portray her literary characters in such a way that the reader feels a close connection with them and an understanding of them.
She is unique in that she was an American child emmersed in the Chinese culture due to her parents being missionaries there.
All of her books offer such an intimate perspective of the Chinese culture.While this is a book about war, Ms. Buck leaves out heavy politics and focuses on the individuals and their day to day survival.
It also begs for its own continuation and I kept searching and searching Buck's book summaries for one.
If anyone knows of one please let me know!This is listed as Buck's "book on Burma" when listing her diversity in writing about Asian countries, not only her main subject of China.
That is completely misleading if as I do you consider her strength to be in her characters and how their cultures and the changes in their countries affect people.
This is a book about Chinese people in Burma, not s book of the Burmese people.
I really enjoyed this book. Although it was set during the war, and had scenes of fighting - it really was about the people and how they related to each other. Great for getting a perspective of why we (Americans/westerners) aren't successful when we step in to "liberate" people.
Buck novels.
This one really didn't have the grab or feel of legitimacy that her other books had and I feel like she made the male protagonist too hard headed to be believable.
Every time he was in the vicinity of the female protagonist, he assumed that she was being a lush just because there were other men around.
Which I think doesn't fit with his nationalist beliefs that he showed elsewhere in the book.
It was just to cheap romance novel to me.
Especially considering the history of the British Empire in a lot of Asia at the time.
Okay, I am confused, I have now read three books by Pearl Buck, including A Good Earth, and I am totally confused as to why she won a Nobel Prize...I actually thought her books were originally written in Chinese and I was reading a not very good English translation only to discover that she wrote in English...are books are not very well written and the characters are rather shallow, as if she was someone looking in from the outside without really understanding what she was seeing.....
A book of warThis book like all Pearl Buck books, was hard to put down. Although it is a book about war, the stories of the people were interesting. I’m always impressed with how deeply she understood the Chinese people, and the way they thought of other ethnic groups.
In the novel, Mayli observes, "Yes, this was the first time that Chinese men and women had ever left their own land to fight." But, with the Rape of Nanking, there is plenty of motivation for China to support the Allies in WWII.
While the larger geo-political scenes play out the Chinese people go on with their daily lives: people fall in love, couples have children, death occurs, and Mayli and Shen play a cat and mouse flirtatious game until soldiers are called to duty.
This is quite a nice book.
Though it still kept the China-setting mind, like usual, but the sensitivity and the intimacy of Pearl's has been blurred here.
The story is about a brave division of Chinese who have been sent on a suicide mission to rescue the remnants of an Anglo-American force trapped in Burma, somewhere during the World War II.
Most of the story is about self sacrification, and the bruteness of the Japanese army.
Compared to "Three Daughters of Madame Liang", this book is still somewhere below.
Since I lost the culture, the feminine side of Pearl's...
As usual, Pearl Buck delivers another touching tale about China, its people, and its culture.
This is the story of China in WWII as told through the eyes of a young man and the girl he loves.
They are caught up in cultural and political changes that propel them along the Burma Road.
They are filled with idealism, love of country, pride and the knowledge that they will fail to halt the enemy regardless of how hard they fight.
They know that many of their friends and family will bear the brunt of their failure and yet they steel themselves to continue on in the face of despair.
A tale of courage and honor.
The Promise follows Buck's The Dragon Seed about the Japanese invasion of China in WWII. The Promise is about the WWII battle in Burma. It follow Mayli's and Sheng's tale of two people whose life is affected during the course of the war. Great descriptions of the Burmese jungles, the Burmese people, and the Japanese cruelties. The promise is the English and Americans word to come to the aid of China that never materialized and it shows the disdain the British and Americans had for Asian peoples.
I liked how we got to know the people personally, then we saw them as soldiers. It was enjoyable to learn about another culture and interesting to compare them with our own cultural soldiers. The descriptions were detailed enough for me to never want to go to Southeast Asia without air conditioning strapped to my back. And I guess I learned that an underdog nation can and should step up alongside "the big dog" of the United States.
I picked this book up off the shelf and I'm so glad I did. I forgot how well Pearl Buck writes. All of a sudden I was in China with a family at their home, then off to war in Burma. The 2 characters in this book fall in love but will not commit. She was raised in America and he in the fields of China. Two different backgrounds, but one bond, the love of their country.
Another disappointing read from Pearl Buck. A bit more emotionally engaging than The Good Earth but still felt plodding. I guess it is just an older style of writing or perhaps it is a cultural thing. Ms. Buck had been brought up in China and so perhaps her more reserved writing is part of her background. Good story but frustratingly flat characters. Sorry.
I've been searching both the internet libraries and the ones with paper books, but I can't find the title of the third part in the series of Dragon Seed. Have I been misinformed, and there is no third part? Some librarians claim the third part is the Pavillion of Women, but it seems ludicrous, as I can't find the connection with any of the Lao sons.
White men " we could be free if you did not think it your duty to save us. Your duty keeps you master and makes us slave. We cannot escape your goodness. Your honesty will not let us go. One of these days we shall defy your God and then we shall be free." Read this book.
Liked it a lot. But I didn't realize I was reading a sequel to Dragon Seed. So afterwards, I read Dragon Seed. It was sort of nice knowing in advance how the book would end (somewhat). Now that I know the background of all the characters, I am going to spot-read The Promise again.
This book was my favorite out of Pearl S. Buck's novels that I've read so far! A very sad story, but very inspiring!
Rated: C+
This book shows how Asians were discriminated against by Americans
Follow a Chinese family as they fight against Japanese invaders and the betrayal of the allies in WWII.
