https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/527870.The_Green_Ripper
Travis even has a couple of moments in this where he admits that he’s over his head, and that even a cynical bastard like him can’t comprehend people willing to commit mass murder for vague ideological concepts.Still, this one is a milestone in the series because it was such a marked contrast to the rest with the death of Gretel and the huge action movie like ending to it which, looking back now, makes me wonder how many Hollywood types read this and were influenced by the book’s last act.
Meanwhile, McGee's girlfriend Gretel Howard has moved out, taking a job in the north suburbs in order to maintain the space she feels their relationship needs.Gretel works at a fitness resort as an instructor and office manager.
It was not possible that the green ripper had gotten her.Returning to the Bahia Mar Marina from Gretel's memorial service in South Beach Park, McGee discovers two men waiting aboard his boat.
McGee and Meyer visit Gretel's employers and discover that these inquisitors showed up at the resort, using different names and questioning the office about an airplane that touched down there, whether anyone else but Ladwigg knew who was aboard.
Then he said the strangest thing of all, “Listen guys, if I ever come up missing or dead, don’t talk about this conversation, won’t be any better for you than it had been for me.”And then graduation and a job and marriage and kids and years later … 9/11 and everything changed and I remember my old prof telling me about sleeper cells and furtive training and I thought, I’ll be damned – it was like he knew it would happen.John D.
Will review later. Straight forward crime/espionage novel. Less crime than normal McGee, more espionage. Macro not Micro.
The pinnacle of the Travis McGee sequence?That is my question mark added to the statement made by HRF Keating in his Crime and Mystery: The 100 Best Books; he goes on to compare the latter MacDonald and McGee novels to none other than Charles Dickens. It is not unfair to compare MacDonald to Dickens the novelist of feelings, of sentiment, and of sentimentality I quite happily admit to never having read a Dickens novel despite my education in the English school system but he has a fair point in a
The pinnacle of the Travis McGee sequence?That is my question mark added to the statement made by HRF Keating in his Crime and Mystery: The 100 Best Books; he goes on to compare the latter MacDonald and McGee novels to none other than Charles Dickens.
The death of Gretel the one true love of Travis McGee that is the catalyst for his adventure is drawn out and painted in such a way that you would be forgiven for thinking that this is a different writer to the one that crafted the first Travis McGee novel The Deep Blue Good-bye.
Shortly after her boss dies in a bicycle accident she passes away in an unexplained sickness.When suits visit him and his friend Meyer, McGee decides to look up the root of his girlfriends death and finds more than he expected.
This is a novel about revenge and working through a loss that was more severe as Travis McGee did expect.A short and powerful & economic written novel by John D.
Any lesser writer would have chosen for a door stopper of a thriller were MacDonald chooses for a personal and limited approach of his character.
A great Travis McGee thriller about a man who is neither policeman of PI.
MacDonald's The Green Ripper has actually even won multiple awards, I was and still remain profoundly disappointed with and by this novel, not so much because of the storyline itself, not because of the featured themes and writing style (although how Travis McGee infiltrates a cult in order to avenge the murder of his lover was and remains more than a bit creepy and frightening), but simply and utterly because my main reason for so much adoring John D.
Okay now this was more like it.
After the disappointing A Tan and Sandy Silence I was glad to see that Mr. McGee was capable of being one of the great Last Action Heroes.
Once again Mr. McGee loses his ladylove (If I was a lady I would run away as fast as I could from Travis.
He finds a group of terrorists posing as a cult in California.
Very different when compared to the other McGee novels and foreshadowing the 1980's action hero story.
I liked it.
Enough with all the cults and radicals.
****.This is actually my second read of this Travis McGee novel from MacDonald.
I figured that I had forgotten enough of its details that it would be like reading it for the first time.
It managed to hit the average reader’s concern over religious cults that were coming into play at the time.
On top of that, the book linked the cults to super-organizations of terrorists.
It’s a good thing that we had McGee around to protect and preserve our way of life.
So what…it is still a good thriller.
This is the 2nd John D MacDonald book I've read, and I'm in love.
The thriller aspect of it was fine and bloody, but that wasn't the reason I couldn't stop reading it.
I suppose I was also carried away by the suspense, but it wasn't obvious cookie cutter thriller suspense.
I really like how MacDonald doesn't ever seem to be trying too hard.
He was on the older end of things when this one came out (1979) and the mastery and ease are obvious.
THE GREEN RIPPER (1980) by John D. MacDonald finds our hero, Travis McGee, in a dark state of mind. His woman (girlfriend doesn’t come close to describing the deep bond between the two) dies suddenly after seeing a sinister religious cult figure she happened to see years before. Travis, almost destroyed by his loss, decides there is only one course of action. He must write out his will, leave sunny Florida behind, cross the country and track down the hidden figures who killed her. This is a dar
MacDonald finds our hero, Travis McGee, in a dark state of mind.
His woman (girlfriend doesn’t come close to describing the deep bond between the two) dies suddenly after seeing a sinister religious cult figure she happened to see years before.
This is a darker book than normal, Travis a bitter avenger, but the writing is consistently of the high standard expected from MacDonald.
While the book might be almost 40 years old, it could have been written today and been just as truthful.
If you haven’t read any of the McGee novels, start with the first in the series.
It's fast and furious!!!While Gretel (Travis McGee's girlfriend) was working at "Bonnie Brae" she was abruptly inflected with a mysterious illness at her job......
McGee was suspecting that they're untruthful, and she was murdered.When Travis was informed by the government agent that Gretel's cause of death was poison a chemical structure was developed by Kamera a section of Dept.
A very advance and exotic assassination device used by the DGI(The Cuban Secret Service) controlled by KGB's.Now, McGee was out for blood, he infiltrated the Apocrypha camp became one of them as Brother Thomas, and dispatching them one by one.
Taking off from the end of The "Empty Copper Sea", the "Green Ripper" marked what I consider the significant high point of the series.
Certainly Travis is forced to endure emotional torment beyond what most of us would ever want, but he comes out of it with a belligerant intensity that makes this book the "Die Harder" of the series.
The looks on the FBI and Intelligence guys faces at the end when they look at all Travis has wrought in seeking his vengence is priceless.
If you liked any of these books at all, this one is the one you have to read!
MacDonald mystery, featuring the long-running Travis McGee series.This one finds Travis spending his time on his docked boat in southern Florida with his new woman, Gretel.
He soon after is visited by two mysterious men who lead him to believe that perhaps Gretel's death was not an accident, that instead she may have unwittingly stumbled into a criminal plot involving a religious and terroristic cult.
What he discovers while there is terrifying, and leads to a wild (somewhat ridiculous) ending.The rise of cults in the 1960's and 1970's (Manson family, Jonestown, Rajneeshees, etc.) made this story a timely one.
However, doing that gave some readers the wrong impression of Travis McGee. You should really start with other books in the series: The Scarlet Ruse, Pale Gray for Guilt, The Turquoise Lament, and Dress Her in Indigo to see how the events in The Green Ripper change the character.
The true horror did not start to become clear until after Monday when we began to hear about the shootout at the Port Kaituma airstrip where the Congressman and others were killed, and the more than 900 bodies found by the first people into Jonestown itself.It was revealed to be a mass murder/suicide at the People’s Temple Agricultural Project.
McGee has decided that maybe, at last, he's found the Real Thing with Gretel, but then she's ruthlessly murdered -- worse, he and Meyer discover this is just one of a long series of killings involved with the plans of anarchistic revolutionaries hiding behind the mask of a religious cult, the Church of the Apocrypha.
In due course, McGee infiltrates one of their armed training camps, and after that it becomes a question of kill or be killed.
This is the most violent of the Travis McGee novels I can remember reading -- although it's been a long while since last I did so, so maybe the others have a similar body-count!
This is the darkest of all the Travis McGee novels.
Trav infiltrates a group of terrorists on a mission of revenge.
My favorite parts are where Travis does a Rambo; kicks ass, takes names…and anyone who manages (excuse me, womanages, see DAUGHTER MOON) to survive gets tied-up & turned into the Feds.
I don’t quite buy the build-up, with McGee mooning over lost love, but John D.
is the consummate professional, the top notch craftsman; even if the spark of early John D.
MacDonald genius is missing, the story still holds me.
I’ve read it at least twice, three is my guess.

Make sure that you first read the previous book in this series, The Empty Copper Sea, as this one follows that more than the McGee books normally do.While I found this a satisfying quick read, I am beginning to feel that (view spoiler)[being one of McGee's female friends is a precarious position! Talk about 'unlucky in love'! (hide spoiler)]
Another excellent story by the late John D. MacDonald. He brings the dangers of joining a cult and how he combats again them. A lot of action in this one and not everything happened in Florida.
Dark novel, McGee on a revenge rampage. Quick moving, but lots of killing. McGee a little more angry than usual.
The Green Ripper continues from Travis's love interest in The Empty Copper Sea, Gretel, they're planning a life together until she is murdered. At this point Travis embarks on a mission of revenge to find the person responsible. It's definitely one of the more violent McGee books, however the additional violence felt very much in place and not merely added for the sake of it. Builds to an excellent ending, maybe the best book in the series so far, Tan & Sandy Silence seemed to have been a low point in the series and everything following has been better.
Probably the darkest T. McGee I've read so far. Didn't put this thing down for 2 days
“For this caper, I am the iceman,” McGee says, “I have come here and brought the ice” (p156).THE GREEN RIPPER is different in tone and topic from the earlier McGee adventures, which are concerned with "small-scale," person-to-person evil.
In the novel, an earnest G-man trying to tidy-up the Church of Apocrypha catastrophe says: “Terrorism is going to pay us one big fat bloody visit … Aroused by that kind of savagery, we can become a very tough kind of people” (p227)--like Travis McGee, slayer of monsters.
What then follows is a pretty unbelievable set of high voltage action more at home in a shoot-em-up movie.We hadn’t really met McGee’s brainy sidekick Meyer until this book, nor did we know about Gretel beforehand.
Not that our author can’t turn a pretty phrase now and then, as when he describes essentially a tree-lined driveway: “There was a cathedral of evergreens on either side of the road, standing at parade rest on the slope, the ground silent with needles.” That sentence alone made for a memorable payoff to “Ripper”, which we otherwise found characteristically average.
And, that's exactly what comes and takes away Gretel, without whom all the time seemed "leaden and endless." She was the one who made Travis, that beach bum who trawled the waters off Florida in his 52foot houseboat ("The Busted Flush"), forget all about the girls of summer.
It is a terrific novel which pits a lone McGee against a worldwide cult set on blowing up modern civilization.
What can this one lone treasure hunter/ beach bum do against a highly trained army of religious fanatics?
The Green Ripper is the 18th McGee novel in a series of twenty one.
The first half of the story is well plotted and paced, unfolding in a way that draws the reader in.
The second half though lacked any real credibility.
Whilst how the religious cult operates and the motivations behind their actions seemed realistic, how they act with respect to McGee is a nonsense.
McGee is not only spared, he is invited into the group and becomes a confidant to all the other elite combat group members.
All tense stuff, but it’s all but impossible for the reader to buy it.

MacDonald and his Travis McGee books will always hold a special place in my heart.
At the time, I was living alone in Washington, DC, and feeling very out-of-place as I rode the metro 45 minutes each way to/from Alexandria, VA.
I was a small-town girl, out in the big city, and feeling every see-sawing emotion you'd expect: a bit overwhelmed, hopeful, anxious, confident, quavering...
But I could always count on Travis McGee's adventures to start my day with excitement and to put a fun punctuation to its ride-home-conclusion.
Sometimes, I was so wrapped up in my book that I missed my stop.
My second read of book 18 from the fabulous and completely unique Travis McGee series.McGee is on the trail of a group of terrorists who kill the woman he was beginning to think he might spend the rest of his life with. Infiltrating the group at source he seeks to stay alive, all the time plotting to stop them from causing mayhem. A strangely prophetic book when you consider the radicalisation of young men and women in this current era.Just proves my point again.....John D MacDonald was a master of the craft.
