https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45220.I_Never_Promised_You_a_Rose_Garden
This is a story of a young woman ages 16-19 who is suffering from severe mental illness (in the book she is diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia) in a mental hospital.
My understanding is that this book is based on a true story and the hospital was Chestnut Lodge and the psychiatrist was Frieda Fromm-Reichmann.
Reading it now, it seems as though the main character, Deborah, was probably actually suffering from major depression with psychosis and not schizophrenia at all – but that hardly matters.
And I admit that I so identified with Deborah that I didn't even absorb that fact of her psychosis; I took the descriptions as metaphor.
This book was meant for those of my ilk...My mind never created its own world, gods, gestures, language like Deborah's (and the author's) did, but the mental illness aspect is enough commonality.
The knowledge of being painfully different in a normal world, peopled with humans who're so luckily hinged (Titans, the author calls them, for being able to live the right way, though they don't realize their strength)...yes, I have this.
Mental illness can stem from anything, really, and I hate that people think of instances leading up to it as being measurable, using their personal opinions to judge whether the trauma is proportional to the mental suffering thereafter.
This was a powerful and painful reading experience and not something I would have naturally gravitated to on my own.
I chose to read this upon the recommendation of a friend and I'm very glad I did.
Reading this story reinforced my committment to never lie to my child.
It was incredible to read about the complex world this young girl created to escape the the escalating fear, lack of control and pain present in her life.
As a parent reading this, my thoughts turned to the huge difference in perception of events between children and adults.
As someone who feels like they deal with mental illness on a daily basis, it was hard for me to enter the mind of someone with schizophrenia. I just couldn’t deal with the concept. It was well written but just not for me at this time.
Tüm insanların tamamen sağlıklı olduklarına inanmadığımdan ve de günlük belirli boyutlarda psikoloji
When we meet Deborah, she’s on her way to a mental hospital.
In Deborah’s case, a number of things come into play, but there’s this seed incident when she’s a child – a tumor that’s removed, never adequately explained, and the lies that surround the surgery and recovery that really start her down the path into madness.
Even at the end, Deborah returns to the mental hospital to take a breather, and realizes what her presence feels like to the other women on the ward – like the work is impossible.

Okuduğum en başarılı psikoloji temelli kitaptı diyebilirim. Konu yeterince dikkat çekici ve anlatımıyla, vurgularıyla sizi hikayeye daha çok bağlıyor. Deborah ve arkadaşlarının gayet normal gelecek tavırlarına karşılık zihinlerinde olan olgular insanı hayrete düşürmeye yetiyor. Birçok mesajı içinde barındırıyor kitap. Hastalık ve hastanede geçen dönem bana biraz uzun gibi geliyordu okurken fakat sonuna yaklaştıkça tam ayarında olduğunu anladım. Umut veren bir kitap, aynı zamanda ürküten bir tarafı da var.
Deli nedir, neye denir?Biz deli miyiz?Delirmek üzere olduğumuzu hissettiğimiz anlarda adlında gerçek deliliğe ne kadar yakınız?İşte bütün bu soruların cevabı bu kitapta.
Bir deli kızımız var; Deborah.
Zihninde apayrı, fantastik bir dünya var; Yr. Bu dünya ile bağlantı kurabilen tek ve yegane kişi de yine kendisi.
Yr isimli bu dünyanın kendine ait bir dili var.
Ve bu dilide yine sular seller gibi konuşabiliyor Deborah.
Hastalık öyle boyutlara varmış ki, kız yeni bir dil icat etmiş, Tolkien kılıklı.
İşe bu kızın Yr ve dünya arasında ki gidiş gelişleri ve bu sırada yaşadıkları en sonunda da iyileşme süreci ve bu yıllar boyunca da bir yandan ailesinin yaşadıkları...Çok güzel ama çok ağırdı.
As a historical document, the book powerfully represents a world in which large industrial-size mental hospitals were considered advanced, state-of-the-art facilities.
Seclusion rooms and cold packs (trapping a patient in ice-cold sheets) were also considered constructive treatments, as was intensive psychoanalysis for psychosis.
Greenberg's descriptions are poignant in this respect, especially because she was herself a patient in real life.
The family, I'm sure, would have suffered much more intensely than Greenberg represents, especially since they are given only vague reports on their daughter's well-being.
I admired the book tremendously, but it was also quite frustrating.
I first read this book as a healthy twenty year old with high hopes for my future, and found it compelling, but strange.
Now, I read this book for comfort, hope and above all to remind myself that while psychiatry and the treatment of mental illness may have moved on, the road to recovery from mental illness still follows the same pattern of two steps forward, one step back.
Reading this book has helped me to recognise this pattern, and gave me renewed hope that there is a world outside my illness - even if it is not a rose garden!
I read this book in my early twenties and don't remember much about it than its haunting descriptions of the fantasy world of the schizophrenic protagonist. It also resulted in my writing a novelette in Malayalam about a young, gifted woman in an unsatisfying marriage to a dull man, slowly going mad and into her fantasy world. (I lost the manuscript, which was just as well, because the story was totally derivative and cringe-worthy.)Maybe if I read it again, my star rating would go up. In those days, I could appreciate only the god Yr in Deborah's mindscape.
This was an incredibly difficult read. Beautifully written story of struggles of mental illness, I read this book in my early 20s and I am glad I did as it helped me develop an awareness of these type of issues. This is an upsetting book, although I am glad I read it.
I just sort of wanted something like that with this novel.Instead, what the hell?I Never Promised You a Rose Garden is...boring.
The characters of Rose Garden move, they talk, they do things but despite all tries to bring you closer to them you can't help feeling that there's a glass wall between you and them, and what you're seeing is really a poor-quality reflection of who they really are.But if we're getting technical...it's basically the story of a a sixteen year old girl put into a mental institution by her parents because of a failed suicidal attempt.
"[I like the] fine old word asylum that suggests a haven, a refuge, a place where hospitality and restfulness prevail." -George A Zeller MD, of Peoria State HospitalJoanne Greenberg was hospitalized for schizophrenia from 1948 to 1951.
The maintenance of that pseudo-sanity was only making her crazier.If she lost control, she could count on being put into the embrace of a wet sheet pack, which provided both deep pressure and warmth.
I read it in high school and it was one of those books that was so bad I couldn't pry myself from it.
I mean, she is portrayed rather heroically but it's rare that I want to reach through a book and punch someone in the nose.
I guess I don't like this book so much because I feel that it's filled with self pity and doesn't include much self reflection.
Boo hiss, bad fiction altogether but sensational bad fiction that goth teenagers can pore over about how meaningful and how much they can relate yada yada, wake me up when Anne Heche remakes this movie and stars in it.
The purpose of the assignment was to examine the state of the science on schizophrenia both at the time of publication (1964) and today, and the ways in which the public's views of schizophrenia may have been shaped through reading this novel.
Greenberg presents a humanized view of mental illness with a focus on the painful experience of a young girl (and her family) living with schizophrenia.
Her psychotherapist is patient and insightful, never pushing Deborah to reveal more than she is ready.
Though many of the treatment methods are outdated, there is insight to be gained from the skillful and empathetic therapy Deborah received.
Overall, it's a great personal story of the experience of living with mental illness.
I read this book for an undergrad class assignment and I loved it.
This book represents the real thoughts of a person diagnosed with Schizophrenia.
What I've read is that the author of this book is actually the protagonist of the story.
She was a 16 year old dianosed with this degenerative illness that affects the person as well as others around them.
She was dianosed when the mere mention of this illness would cause confusion and guilt to parents who thought that somehow they were at fault for their child's "flaws".
Bir akıl hastasının gözünden hayata bakabilmek... Yazarının kendi yaşamından izler taşıyan bu kitabı okurken "deli" deyip geçtiklerimizin beynine, dünyasına misafir olma şansınız var! Deborah... Umarım başarmışsındır.
I read this too long ago to really review it properly.I do remember it being a favorite book when I was young and troubled.
That's the skill of Greenberg because the reader inhabits Deborah's thoughts then is forced out of them when the narrative switches to Dr. Fried's point of view or to Jacob and Esther's point of view.
It's part of the skill that Greenberg has as a novelist, the beautiful language that she employs to convey both the world and the mental landscapes of Deborah and those around her.The story itself is interesting because it's rare to get an insight into the reasons behind a person's illness and to really understand why a person can become schizophrenic.
Deborah, yeryüzü ile YR arasındaki kız.Dünyanın saçmalığı ve YR'nin zorbalığı arasında sıkışıp kalmış şizofreni hastası Deborah.Dünyasızlık mümkün değil, mümkün olsa eminim seçmek isterdik.
İnsanoğlu kendini dünyaya bağlıyor, bağlamak zorunda.
Koptuğun zaman kayıpsın, ya da dünyalılara göre öyle işte.Bu kitabı sevdim ama sanki anlatım yeterince iyi değil gibi geldi bana, sanki o "kopuşlar", paralel evren, yeni dünyaya giriş ve dünyamıza dönüş daha iyi anlatılabilirdi.
Yine de yazara saygı duyuyorum, çok zor bir konu.
Şizofreni hastası değil ama atipik psikoz hastası bir tandığım vardı; hiç alakasız şeyler söyleyip kaygı bozukluğu yaşıyordu.
Bazen durmadan konuşuyor, bazen de uzunca bir süre susuyordu.
Çok zor bir şey.Çok...
"Cehennemin eşiğine gelmiş kişilerin şeytandan ödü kopuyordu; zaten cehennemin içinde olanlar içinse şeytan özel biri değildi, yalnızca başka biriydi, o kadar.""Benim hastalığım...
Bu kadar uçsuz hayal dünyası ve akıcı çeviri için ne desem az.Aslında sadece Deborah değil incelenmesi gereken.
Kız kardeşi Suzy'nin arkadaşlarını evine çağıramamasındaki sessiz çaresizliği, babası Jacob'ın Deborah'ın gidişinde sonra "gülmeyeli o kadar uzun zaman oldu mu ?" demesi bu tür durumlarda hasta odaklı durumun çevresine oluşturduğu etkiyi açıkça göstermektedir.Psikiyatriye ilgiliniz varsa kesinlikle okuyun çünkü bu kitap ilgisi olan kişilerin okuyabileceği türde.
When I think about this book compared to things that were written much later, when some of the stigma had at least blunted a bit, I see just how brave it was for Greenberg, even under a pen name, to write this account of her mental illness.
I read that Greenberg has been off meds for 50 years and has not had any schizophrenic episodes.
Having studied neuroscience since I first read this book, I am extremely interested in how, given all the difficulties with the meds for this disorder, Greenberg was able to get well and get off the drugs that most people cannot free themselves from (lest they have a terrible relapse).
Who knows what experiences each one of us hides in our hearts or the scars of our mind.What makes us shut the world that has been so terrible to us?
What makes us say I just cannot go on; I need to shut myself in a protective cocoon.The reasons are varied and many, they could be social or cultural.
The rest of us, just tune off this World, this life, and wrap ourselves in a protective wrap and we do not feel the need to follow the general prescribed norms of Society.
There were so many big words in this book, but i got through it and i was satisfied with the ending.
It's about the three years a teenage girl, Deborah, spends at an asylum.
Throughout the book, she constantly retreats to an imaginary world that she created to block out what she couldn't accept in the real world.
Her time at the asylum wasn't at all bad because she made new friends and those were the only true friends she ever had.
I think the friendship she built at the time gave her a reason to focus on the real world and it helped with her recovery.
I think talking about problems is exceedingly helpful, but at this point, depending on what you believe about mental illness, you'll either accept or reject the book.Doctor Fried, who escaped Nazi Germany but saw many of her patients there lose their lives, talks Deborah through the land of Yr and her formative years.
The thing that is so wrong about being mentally ill is the terrible price you have to pay for survival.
63The people on the edge of Hell were most afraid of the devil; for those already in hell the devil was only another and no one in particular.
the symptoms are not the sickness ..
these symptoms are defenses and shields ..
her sickness is the only solid ground she has ..
109A hard proof, but a valid one, time.
137Darkness and pains and hard fear and mindlessness, and yet your heart is still going and your pulse still makes you a part of the census.
An interesting book, and quite good. However it's definitely a product of its time. I dislike the implications that mental illness can be caused by an individual or hir parents, and that it is only a matter of willpower to overcome it.
The book focuses on Deborah's daily life in the mental institution, surrounded by other girls, some of whom are even more disturbed than she is.
I apologize for the spoiler, but I want to emphasize that Deborah's troubling story does end on a hopeful note.
(But what a lot of suffering along the way!) I love the scene at the end, when Deborah glaces at a book of illustrations of Milton's Paradise Lost and realizes that one of the most evil and manipulative characters who formerly tormented her in her mind was neither real nor even original.
