https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153025.Heart_Shaped_Box
I was most reminded of Freddie Krueger, as the hostile ghost sets out to destroy Coyne and all those he holds dear.
Although I have read better horror books, this one turned out well enough.
The guy has talent, and I expect there will be much more product in the years to come as he follows in daddy’s footsteps.Joe HillI read the book back in 2007.
Hill has more than realized his potential since then, establishing himself as one of the premier writers of horror working today.
=============================EXTRA STUFF Links to the author’s personal, Tumblr and FB pagesReviews of other Joe Hill Books-----The Fireman -----NOS4A2-----20th Century Ghosts
it was storming outside, it was 3AM and I was too afraid to put the book down, and I didn't care if I would end up wetting the bed because there was no way in hell I was going to get up and go to the bathroom.
When you're traumatized from what you've read, you know you've found a good horror author.Right up to the last page of Heart Shaped Box, I kept waiting for something scary, and when that didn't happen, I kept thinking that horror should be left to the masters, that the reviews about this book were false advertizing, and that the only true horror writer is Stephen King.
Then I read that the author is King's son?
The ghost of a sweet old man -Craddock McDermott- a self proclaimed hypnotist and loving step-father to the online seller -Jessica.
Jude is intrigued and on a whim puts in the top bid of $1000 guaranteeing him the purchase, and before long an item is delivered to his door- the suit of a dead man in a HEART-SHAPED BOX...
Craddock's ghost is faaaaaar from sweet, and Jessica's real motive behind the sale becomes crystal clear.
Is HEART-SHAPED BOX perfect???...but it is an entertaining, gruesome, sometimes terrifying read- and a great beginning for the talented writer Joe Hill.
Can Judas stop the man in the suit from destroying his life?After NOS4A2, I thought it best to tackle some of Joe Hill's earlier books.
When a ghost is driving people mad, the prose doesn't have to be purple to be enjoyable.Judas and Georgia wound up being much more developed than I originally thought.
Judas and Georgia went through the wringer on the way to the end of the story and there was no magic to fix their grievous injuries.Since Judas is an aging rock star, I expected a lot more references to music and musicians.
Imagine a ghost! Not just any ghost, imagine a ghost with a unique set of skills like advanced interrogation skills and deep hypnotic abilities, which he acquired during his long and diverse career. That's right, kids. The ghost in this story is Liam Neeson of Ghosts. Well, at least he started out to be Liam Neeson of ghosts, and he will find you.... and he will kill you. But who is going to be his victim?Meet our hero, Judas Coyne, a 54-year-old rockstar with a very rockstar-y lifestyle. Unfor
Not just any ghost, imagine a ghost with a unique set of skills like advanced interrogation skills and deep hypnotic abilities, which he acquired during his long and diverse career.
The ghost in this story is Liam Neeson of Ghosts.
Well, at least he started out to be Liam Neeson of ghosts, and he will find you....
I did like the character of Judas Coyne because he was something new, but the rest of the characters were dull, including the supposedly scary ghost.
The Liam Neeson of ghost's introduction was a decent affair: Silent, sinister and brutal....
It took me more than a month to bring myself to write this review and I think this alone is very telling.
I just cannot find the absolute slightest motivation to talk about this book, because quite frankly, I just hated it.
I don't think I have ever read a book I found more boring and ridiculous.
The guy buys a ghost and no one is seriously fazed when bad and weird things start happening??
Sometimes I seriously felt like I was reading a comedy and laughed out loud.
This is one of those books I wish I hadn't wasted my time on.
The scariest thing about Joe Hill's debut book, Heart Shaped Box, isn't the actual story, but what lies between the front cover and the inside title page of the Harper paperback version. In it, over 18 reputable newspapers and acclaimed writers attempt to prop up little Stevie King, Jr's Joe Hill's novel with some seriously excellent reviews. Scary because all these awesome reviews lead you, the reader, to expect that Heart Shaped Box is the next  BIG  thing in horror.Only it's not.Not by a long
The scariest thing about Joe Hill's debut book, Heart Shaped Box, isn't the actual story, but what lies between the front cover and the inside title page of the Harper paperback version.
In it, over 18 reputable newspapers and acclaimed writers attempt to prop up little Stevie King, Jr's Joe Hill's novel with some seriously excellent reviews.
Scary because all these awesome reviews lead you, the reader, to expect that Heart Shaped Box is the next 
10/2/18: Hey. Hey you!
Are you looking for an original ghost story to read this month?
I would like to put forth Heart-Shaped Box as a contender.
Original and just damn cool, this is the perfect Spooktober read!Original: Gritty ghost story I had to keep reminding myself was not written by Stephen King.
Joe Hill is such a fantastic writer - he writes with such persuasion and conviction that you find yourself believing what the narrator is telling you.
You can dive right into this one and never look up if you allow yourself.
This was creative and fast-paced and I thoroughly enjoyed every minute!

I think a fundamental element of being spooked out by ghost stories begins in either a belief or a lack of DISbelief in ghosts.
That being said I enjoyed Heart-Shaped Box for all that it IS a ghost story, despite this flaw in my spook-history.
I LOVED Koontz when I was in high school, so when I say something reminds me of that style it is always a good thing.
It’s almost like Hill felt a need to add them even though they felt like the most unnatural element of this ghost story.
With relentlessly good characterization, this debut horror novel by the now-firmly-established powerhouse of Joe Hill rocks one hell of a good ghost story.I have a thing for stories about aging rockers.
I don't know what it is.
Throw in a ton of cool reveals and a lot of willpower, realism, and clear-headed common sense native ONLY to the purveyors of the macabre, and we've got a deliciously stewy no-nonsense novel focused on getting shit done.
:)I think it's fair to say I'll be able to pick up any of Joe's novels from now on and be pretty certain I'll have a great time.
The only sympathetic character gets offed early in the story, and we don't hear much from him since.The whole thing is extremely boring and not even remotely scary.
Yeah, because that's what you do when there's a ghost near you.I can't help but think that Joe Hill set out to write a bestseller that would guarantee him an audience, and what if they were some hipser kids that buy their leather coats at hot topic and have just gotten their ears pierced.
After three hundred long and boring pages I'd expect something more, but it never happened.Were some strings pulled to publish Heart Shaped Box?
I don't know what I thought I was going to read, but it wasn't this.
I also love scary movies of all sort, so I'm not one easily freaked out.
The whole concept of the novel was unique.At times I found myself wanting to give Joe Hill a thesaurus and a phrase book, because he kept using the same descriptions over and over again.
I'm also interested in reading some of Hill's other works.
Pretty good read.
The dogs, because they weren't just animals in the background, they were actual characters, very entertaining and loving ones.Want a quick, good, scary story?
Dave's Quick Judgement -  THE DEFENSE  - The prose is very gripping. - Many genuinely creepy moments. - Frequent musical references add a little extra spice to the story. THE PROSECUTION  - The main characters are rather bland. - Dialogue is often dry and tedious. - Some attempts to be scary teeter over to the "laughably-bad" side (the ghost rising out of a candy box and even reaching back in for his hat comes to mind). THE VERDICT I found this to be a good ghost story, just not a great one. But
Dave's Quick Judgement - 
THE DEFENSE
- The prose is very gripping.
- Frequent musical references add a little extra spice to the story.
- Some attempts to be scary teeter over to the "laughably-bad" side (the ghost rising out of a candy box and even reaching back in for his hat comes to mind).
I found this to be a good ghost story, just not a great one.
But in all fairness, lots of people liked this book more than me, so if ghost stories are your thing, I'd still recommend giving this one a shot.FULL REVIEW TO COME

Plus, I feel like my initial reaction is a good thing to get down right away, since so often I find myself changing my opinion of a novel, and it's always fun to go back and read what I wrote before I had time to mull it over.I read this one really fast.
Initially the main characters, Jude an aging rockstar and his girlfriend of the moment Georgia, are not very likable characters, but Hill has a knack for characters, (like his father), and he had me really rooting for these two by the end of the novel.I'm going to keep this spoiler free, but if you enjoyed NOS4A2, you will probably like this one as well.
This book is creeeeeeeeeeeeeepy and I loved it! It's not Joe Hill's best, in my opinion (my favorite is NOS4A2, by a mile), but this one was fantastic. A good old fashioned ghost story. For some reason, I pictured the ghost to look like this:  aka the creepy guys from Buffy in the 'Hush' episode. And maybe that's why it creeped me out even more. If I saw this guy staring at me from in a car or from across the room I'd prob shit myself.Overall, a great read and highly recommended.
I really liked it! Crazy, scary fun!
From this point forward, I shall refrain from the HEART-SHAPED BOX, heart-shaped candies, and anything else in the shape of a heart that is sent through the mail or easily consumable.
The characters proved nearly as lifelike and realistic as they did horrific, and this novel showcases why revenge goes down about as easily as antifreeze.
(hide spoiler)]If you like your revenge served cold, and your evil served piping hot, your characters creepy with more than enough realism to seal the deal, and you prefer a slow burn before all the hoopla and singing and fireworks, then this is one tale that’ll probably keep you flipping the pages.
Well, let’s compare those with what our hero likes to collect in this story.
Serial killers’ sketches, a sixteenth century human skull, a 300 year old confession signed by a witch; you want me to go on?So when our hero realizes that a ghost is for sale in an auction, he doesn’t hesitate and puts the highest bid and buys it.
But what he receives in the heart-shaped box, is more than the suit of the dead man.Who is the seller of the ghost?
Who does this suit belong to?
And more importantly how can our hero get rid of it?
An actual ghost, for sale on some specifically-not-eBay auction site (wonder what happened there?); Jude, when Danny shows him the listing, clicks the "Buy NOW $1,000" button, ends the auction, and a few days later a big, black heart-shaped box arrives with a natty old suit in it.Hijinks ensue.No really, the only word is hijinks.
Grandmothers and aunts and mamas galore, a visit to the nightroad (aka "Highway to Hell" oh heck like I could resist the heavy metal pun), an encounter with the golden door that solves many problems, and proof positive that dogs are superior to cats in every conceivable measure and circumstance.Mandatory legal disclaimer: Absolutely no cliches were harmed in the making of this book.Reading it passed a pleasant five hours.
Heart-Shaped Box is about a ghost who, apparently, can't decide if it wants to kill the person it wants to kill.
Aging rock star buys a ghost off the internet and that ghost decides to kill him.
Almost succeeds fairly early on, too.
doesn't kill him.
Why, you ask?
not killing people.
"But", you say, "didn't you say he almost killed him early on?
If you're going to be asking questions like that, you'll end up with the same rating I did, so you might want to stop that sort of thinking right now.
Scary - full of ghosts and gore and really gross stuff.
Definitely a horror story and one which never lets up from start to finish.
Jude, the main character, is strangely attractive despite everything and I really wanted him and Mary Beth to stay alive.
I also wanted Angus and Bon to stay alive.
Joe Hill has the same warped imagination as his father and the final scene in Jude's father's bedroom is a great example of this.
Did I say already that there is lots of gross stuff?
A great read:)
It was fun taking this ride down the night road again, this time on audio. I was not crazy about the narrator, nor the musical bits in between the chapters, but the story itself is still good, though maybe not quite as good as I remembered. Still, Craddock and his creepy eyes remain scary AF.Recommended!
(view spoiler)[- Okay I really need to get off my chest is Bon and Agnus dying *Throws book* But not really because its borrowed XD  AS SOON as I read they were German Shepherds my heart stopped, King tends to kill his puppies and I was scared Joe would too AND HE DID AND MY HEART BROKE A LOT 3.
(hide spoiler)]The rights to this were sold to Warner Bros and I NEED THIS TO BE MADE INTO A MOVIE SO I CAN SHARE IT WITH MY NON BOOK LOVING FRIENDS...
This book was VERY CREEPY. Way creepier than I anticipated from the synopsis. I stayed up late reading last night as my partner was out of town, and by the time I put the book down, it was LATE and I did NOT want to turn the lights out. I watch horror movies ALL the time, and they rarely get to me... but the ghost in this story definitely creeped his way into my mind.*shudders*Excellent book!
In a funny way this book shows the power of love and also it's opposite which is very driven dark side and even in real life those can be close so making it into a striking, dangerous and scary story was great.
Jude Coyne buys a haunted suit and he definitely gets what he pays for, it arrives in a black heart shaped box and once that lid is off his life starts to go on a dangerous decline, those close to him are in an intense danger and the only way to stop the horrific power behind the purchase seems to be sucked straight out of hell.
What better way to spend my Valentines Day then reading Heart-Shaped Box?
For surely, this shall be a sweet and romantic tale?Nah. GHOST STORIES!
Heart-Shaped Box by Joe Hill is a grade-A egg.
Important thing is, Heart-Spaped Box is good.
It's horror, pets are fair game, but damn it I'm a big softie when it comes to animals!
I don't like my fictional violence directed at our four legged friends, even when it makes sense in the story.
(hide spoiler)]Really, I could ramble on about how much I liked this for ages.
Heart-Shaped Box is pecan pie.
Wow, what a great debut!Now that I have that out of the way, let me start out my review by saying that Heart-Shaped Box is the creepiest, scariest new book that I have read in quite some time.
Mr. Hill tells an excellent story; well thought out with wonderful character development.
These instances were few and far between, so it wasn't a distraction to the wonderful flow of the novel.If you couldn't tell, I highly recommend Heart-Shaped Box. It's a great read.
While the potential was there for a somewhat believable creep-out payoff, the story starts falling apart at about the 50-page mark and I found it impossible to focus on the book (no doubt from rolling my eyes too much).
The idea of an eccentric former rock star (with an obsession with grotesquerie) buying a ghost on an Ebay-ish portal sounded like wiggy fun, but I couldn't buy the story at all.
I would love to say that it's just me (in that I don't read thrillers and horror that much), but I just couldn't fathom the appeal of this.
