https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/178959.American_Primitive
I close my eyes and it's not difficult to imagine Mary Oliver waking up right before dawn to open the window shutters of her house in Provincetown and wait for the sun to trace its slothful arch while waiting for words to come.
Her poems of the Ohio winters hit close to home, detailing the muted silence of a snow covered night, beneath a starless sky such as in First Snow:Its whiterhetoric everywhere calling us back to why, howwhence such beauty and whatthe meaningThere are the blossoming poems of spring, bringing us rain ‘soft as lilacs and clean as holy water’, and the glorious warmth of summer.
While much of the works are directed towards the blooming and buzzing of life, the river of her poems travel to darker territories at times where the land reclaims the living.
Of James Wright's The Branch Will Not Break, Peter A.
This is nature at its richest, populated by a wind that howls with a shapeless mouth, rain that lashes over the rooftops, luminous fruit, a bird with an eye like a full moon, an alligator with a penchant for poetry...The oaks shonegaunt goldon the lipof the storm beforethe wind rose,the shapeless mouthopened and began it five-hour howl...
31)In a house down the road,as though I had never seen these things -leaves, the loose tons of water,a bird with an eye like a full moondecides not to die, after all...
Whole lines of beautiful poetry and their accompanying dreamlike images are woven through my life thanks to Mary Oliver's shared vision of our world.Now you are dead too, and I, no longer young,know what a kiss is worth.
Thisor that, or something else:the dark woundof watching.(from Something)Listen, whatever it is you try to do with your life, nothing will ever dazzle youlike the dreams of your body,its spiritlonging to fly while the dead-white bonestoss their dark mane and hurryback into the fields of glittering firewhere everything,even the great whale,throbs with song.(from Humpbacks)Ah, she dazzles me!
Mary Oliver is so fucking cool and badass. You get the feeling reading this that she'd be great to have as a camping buddy, or backing you up in battle. The poems are all tactile earthy nature and sinewy arms ripping into mud kind of gnarlyness and make you want to run outside and shove dirt in your mouth.
So after years of teaching "Crossing the Swamp" and really coming to love it, I last year made an annotation for myself on my very own copy of the poem that I found this May: "Why the fuck aren't you reading more Mary Oliver?" Since I always take my own vituperative and vulgar advice, I picked up this collection.
Here's my favorite of her poems in this collection: The FishThe first fish I ever caught would not lie down quiet in the pail but flailed and sucked at the burning amazement of the air and died in the slow pouring off of rainbows.
As I read American Primitive by Mary Oliver, my brain apparently couldn’t help but connect the two.“and though the questionsthat have assailed us all dayremain – not a singleanswer has been found – walking out nowinto the silence and the lightunder the trees,and through the fields,feels like one.”Mary Oliver acknowledges the cracks.
She seems to find splendor at every corner.“But we were fourteenand no way dust could hidethe expected glamour from us,or teach us anything.”We might all be walking around with our eyes open, but Mary Oliver sees.
It’s quite an experience.If I were to describe American Primitive in one word, I believe I would go with feathers.
These poems may quiet your mind or just make you feel blessed to have even read them.Her poems take you into the beauty of a wild swamp where alligators recite their poetry and to the sadness of a kitten that was born dead, as she gives it softly back to the earth.
One poems haunts me, "The Lost Children." This is only the first half: "In southern Ohio,a long time ago,Lydia Osborn, aged eleven, lefther younger sisteron the path and headed aftersome straying cows, and did not return.Seven days a search was made; menfrom Ohio and Kentucky trampedthe darkness, milesof underbrush and trees.They found where she'd slept,under two fallen trees, and eatenfox grapes and other berries.The searchers went on into the darkness.
It was a joy to walk her paths for a time.
In the darkcreeks that run by there isthis thick paw of my life darting amongthe black bells, the leaves; there isthis happy tongue.”“The snakesI once saw two snakes, northern racers,hurrying through the woods,their bodieslike two black whipslifting and dashing forward;in perfect concertthey held their heads highand swam forwardon their sleek bellies;under the trees,through wines, branches,over stones,through fields of flowersthey traveledlike a matched teamlike a dancelike a love affair.”An image:“In the pinewoods, crows and owl“(…).
Feathers Falling from your breast like leaves,And your eyes two boltsOf lightning go to sleep.(…)”Some information to know more about the author: http://www.poetryfoundation.org/bio/m...An interesting post in Spanish: https://lausinamistica.wordpress.com/...
Mary Oliver is the person who knows these thoughts and secrets that everybody harbors and how we all feel that deep urge to connect with nature.
She opens our souls to the raw, beautiful, seductive and hidden side of nature that is all around us.
Her words are beautiful, indescribable, luscious, and scrape nature down to it's core.
Read it when you're tired, when you are up late at night, need to escape reality, or are feeling philosophical and inspired.
Her poetry is life changing and you will forever be thinking about it from the moment you begin.
Buy a copy and cherish it forever.
That was the first poem I read.
I read it again aloud to hear the words against each other until my ex and grumbled and told me to be quiet already.The kitten with one eye, her body buried quietly under wildflowers.
That was last spring with my cat beside me with his two eyes blinking and he was purring and the book in my hand like a dead one-eyed kitten, my hand numb with the weight of it.Today I read the whole thing cover to cover.
Have to make sure to get all of it, can't afford to miss a single dribble.
I can't believe how long I've waited to read this early collection, since I've been a fan of hers for so long. She's one of the very few writers that I can honestly say has saved my life. No one else can accurately or as beautifully describe the taste of honey. Or describe why little girls dream of being mermaids! For anyone who is able to find so much humanity, beauty, morality, and even a little spirituality in Nature....well, she's one of our greatest teachers. We're lucky to have access to her words.
I just could not get into this until about 1/2way through. No doubt it's just me, but there we are. But then in the second half (not that there are halves) I marked:(from) _Vultures_Like large darklazybutterflies they sweep overthe glades lookingfor death,to eat it,to make it vanish,to make of it the miracle:resurrection. ....... Too long to quote, too interconnected to sample, but worth finding if you can are "The Sea," "Crossing the Swamp" and "Humpbacks."
In one poem called ‘John Clapman’ there was an interesting character who made me remember the character called Tom Bombadil from ‘The Lord of the Rings’ – “everywhere he went the apple trees sprang up behind him lovely as young girls.” In the first half of the book, I liked lines from nearly every poem, but I had only one favourite poem.
There are beautiful lines throughout the book, like this :“The rain rubs its shining hands all over me”And this :“Now you are dead too, and I, no longer young, know what a kiss is worth”And this :“there is no end, believe me!
Cottage Poetry
But they are mixed with some that seem simple-minded (perhaps I am too simple minded to understand them) and others that distract from and vitiate the collection's point.As the title suggests, Oliver is after a primeval American experience, one that not only connects the body to the natural world, but shows them as made up of the same stuff.
A large part of that is because the book seems to rely on Romantic tropes, which values wilderness, and that which is separate from humans, and not other kinds of nature--the kind that is always around us.But of course that should be expected, from the title alone.

Mary Oliver has great attitude of ordering her poems in American Primitive.
It starts with a creation story that does not try to explain things – rather it tells like it is, to acknowledge existence of self in immediate sensations of “ripped arms” and “happy tongue,” the silence growth of mushrooms, and the warm mystery of earth.
It’s almost a dead baby joke, and I like that.Every poem is ecstasy of her throbbing heart, that is what I feel in a storm too, and that is what I want in life.
Arts are hairballs of the human condition barfed out of our existence – rude, incomprehensible, and utterly beautiful in a familiar way.
American Primitive is such a book, and Once and Future Giants is its no-nonsense, nonfiction companion.
Without once mentioning the word "primitive," Mary Oliver breathes it into life on each page.
our owl is:Hissingand snapping, grabbing about him, dreadfulas death's drumOur owl hero would find a home in Sharon Levy's Once and Future Giants.
Here we have a neat scientific take on Oliver's primitive.
She gently mocks those who would nurture wild horses but not their predators.
"The threat of a hungry carnivore lurking at the water hole is the essence of the truly wild horse."
I seem to be one of the only people on Goodreads who isn't head-over-heels in love with this book.
I thought it was strong, solid nature poetry, but without that extra dimension that makes me love poets like Robert Frost and Annie Dillard - writers who can get you so wrapped up in a completely mundane scene that you don't even see it coming when they hit you with some profound, metaphysical truth.
Mary Oliver has a wonderful way with words, but she doesn't take you anywhere beyond the scene.
I found it easy to slide through her poems and rarely found things to pull me back in or make me want to re-read a line.
American Primative is a nice collection of poetry that ultimately fell short for me, because of the quantity of imagist poems.
While the crafting is excellent the content of the poems lacks flare and the edgy topics.
It's a reasonable read and worth checking out of a library or reading in a book store over a cup of coffee, but I was able to read through 10 or 12 poems without tiring or needing to stop for a moment of reflection.
(You can always force a reflective moment, but I prefer to wait and have the poet force them upon me.) Afterward a breath I continued reading.
Maybe the most beautiful book of poetry by Mary Oliver I've read - and that's saying a lot! Of plum trees: "Listen, / the only way / to tempt happiness into your mind is by taking it / into the body first, like small / wild plums." After describing humpback whales: "I know several lives worth living."
I love Mary Oliver's "Dog Songs" and "Blue Horses" but I don't seem to be inspired the same way with her earlier work. A lot of good poetry here but it didn't grab me. Actually took a very long time to finish. Looking forward to reading her most recent book soon.
My favorite (from The Plum Trees):Joy is a taste beforeit's anything else, and the bodycan lounge for hours devouringthe important moments. Listen,the only wayto tempt happiness into your mind is by taking itinto the body first, like smallwild plums.
A sublime collection of poetry I have no doubt I will be coming back to again and again. If the winter blues get you down I highly recommend reading some of Oliver's work. Her poems are exciting and honest and thoughtful and I want to read more.
Although I am familiar with several of the individual poems included in this book, I had never read them . . . as a whole. More powerful. Just lovely. And just what I need right now.
This is an older (first published in 1978) + new-to-me collection of Oliver's and like all of her collections I've read, it's beautiful.
It's also almost entirely naturalist-themed, which makes my reading heart quite happy.
to the inventions of summer,/to the happiness your body/is willing to bear." "The Sea" "Humpbacks""Climbing the Chagrin River""Tecumseh" — "...call it/what madness you will, there's a sickness/worse than the risk of death and that's/forgetting what we should never forget." "In the Blackwater Woods"[Five stars for twice as many favorites, and for something to bite into in every poem.]
The Pulitzer Prize winning fourth book by American poet Mary Oliver, published when she was 48.Poetry Review: American Primitive is a book of nature poetry.
Dick horror of a world, and even then people will read Mary Oliver to learn and know what nature was like.The poems in this book investigate the rich black of earth and berries, and a mystical whiteness of nature: ...
there's a sickness worse than the risk of death and that's forgetting what we should never forget.The book is dedicated to the great Ohio poet James Wright (Oliver, too, was an Ohioan), who died three years before American Primitive was published.
Beautiful. My favorites include: August, Tasting the Wild Grapes, First Snow, Flying, Honey at the Table, Humpbacks, Music, Climbing the Chagrin River, In Blackwater Woods and The GardenFrom Blackwater Woods:"To live in this worldYou must be ableto do three things:to love what is mortal;to hold itagainst your bones knowingyour own life depends on it;and when the time comes to let it go,to let it go."

There is breathtaking beauty in Mary Olivers' poems. She can become one with nature. It means throwing away one's ego. Her works shine with the rare beauty which comes fron the humble attitude of admitting a human being is just the part of nature. Her theme is often nature. But sometimes she wrote about a ordinary life such as "University Hospital, Boston" in this volume.The poem is full of compassion for war wounded Americans. This poem shows she is the true poet with the insight of penetrating the maddness of this society.
She is our sparkling Emerson, our prairie Whitman, our up early and strolling Oliver.I’m not sure why it took me so long to read this collection.
I’ve previously read only Why I Wake Early, and I enjoyed it very much.
To be totally honest, there was probably some terrible and embarrassing elitism on my part; Oliver is often described as America’s best SELLING poet.
Rarely, America’s best poet.
But after smacking myself and reading American Primitive, I see what I’ve been losing every day.
Superb. Exquisite. She has a masterful voice, and transports your mind to the sights and sounds and feelings she writes about. Nature is where she truly shines. I'd like to take a walk with her, and ponder flower hues and sunsets.
A workshop leader once spoke about Oliver's practice of waking up early and exploring the world outside her home. Observant is the one word which describes Mary Oliver's poetry.
Actually not my favorite Mary Oliver collection (or even second favorite) but it gets 5 stars for being so freakin fantastic.
TecumsehQuotes:"But instead I took it out into the field and opened the earth and put it back saying, it was real, saying, life is infinite, inventive, saying, what other amazements lie in the dark seed of the earth..." - The Kitten"The landscape bulging forth like a quick lesson in creation..." -Lighting"The bone-crushing prince of dark days..." -In the Pinewoods, Crows and Owls"Walking out now into the silence and the light under the trees, and through the fields, feels like one." - First Snow"It would be years before we'd learn how effortlessly sin blooms, then softens, like any bed of flowers." - An Old Whorehouse"To live in this world you must be able to do three things: to love what is mortal; to hold it against your bones knowing your life depends on it and, when the time comes to let it go, to let it go." - In Blackwater Woods
Out of pain,and pain, and more pain,we feed this feverish plot, we are nourishedby the mystery.And I particularly like the conclusion of “The Plum Tree”:Joyis a taste beforeit’s anything else, and the body can lounge for hours devouringthe important moments.
Listen,the only wayto tempt happiness into your mind is by taking itinto the body first, like smallwild plums.These excerpts represent the spirit of American Primitive well, though its scope of wisdom is certainly broader than these examples.
Here's a bonus excerpt, the conclusion of "The First Snow":The silence is immense, and the heavens still hold a million candles; nowhere the familiar things: stars, the moon, the darkness we expect and nightly turn from.
I love Mary Oliver, but somehow missed previously reading this book.
I've read more of her later books, I guess.
The poems were much more fully nature poetry, focused on nature for nature's sake, and were slightly less engaged in using nature as metaphor for life and God, as she does in later works to such great effect, like in some of my favorites like Wild Geese (this link will bring you to her reading the poem, with the text of the poem in the description: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lv_4x...).
to the inventions of summer,to the happiness your bodyis willing to bear.All in all, this book is a beautiful collection of poetry, as are all of Mary Oliver's collections.

These poems are a meditation on nature keenly observed, acutely felt.
At turns reverent, playful, always earthy, contemplative, Oliver pulls us into the wonder in her bones after she has drunk to the dregs the world around her.
Her poems are often evocative; what I resonate with in her imagery pulls my own experience into her vision, helping me to better see what I have always seen.
At its best, American Primitive reminds me of the pleasures of poetry, the power of a seemingly effortless lyric that captures the very essence of the thing observed.
Maybe I should have lingered with them longer, but it was cold and dreary and I was in a sappy mood so, I guess, this was exactly what my soul needed that day.
Whether the poem is about a season or a tree or an animal, I felt.
I, in particular, loved the ones about seasons in general or the herons (I believe my dear mother-in-law was reincarnated as one because they were her favorite birds and are a plenty on a small lake in Indiana I know well, and one regularly rests on the end of my pier when I'm there.
Today seems like the perfect day to start that one.
enjoying it, but suspect she's shallower than the Belle...
I am enjoying the treatments of nature/death/joy, the lyrical qualities, and there's enough structure and meter to keep the quant jock in me happy.It's easy to wallow in fear/sentiment of mortality, and I'm getting a bit tired of it.
So far, no "and that made all the difference." But a nice little book.=============================It's so hard to be compared to Emily.
If one is not living a shuttered life, constantly introspective, one seems less sensitive.Nice poetry.
Every yeareverythingI have ever learnedin my lifetimeleads back to this: the firesand the black river of losswhose other sideis salvation,whose meaningnone of us will ever know.To live in this worldyou must be able to do three things:to live what is mortal;to hold itagainst your bones knowingyour own life depends on it;and, when the time comes to let it go,to let it go.
This last bit of In Blackwater Woods, a poem near the end of this collection, seems a good example of the poet's heart.
Her poems have slowly become a guilty pleasure for me.
It is easy to read and although I am sure there are deeper meanings to her work, I can relate to it and make it mine.
I wish I had discovered this poet a long time ago.
In Part:His name meant Shooting Star.From Mad River country north to the borderhe gathered the tribesand armed them one more time.
He vowedto keep Ohio and it took himover twenty years to fail.and then:his people came in the black leaves of the nightand hauled him to a secret grave, or thathe turned into a little boy again, and leaped into a birch canoe and wentrowing home down the rivers.
Anyway,this much I'm sure of: if we ever meet him, we'll know it,he will still beso angry.
