https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78510.The_Autobiography_of_Eleanor_Roosevelt
This is not the book to pick if you want the details of Franklin’s political decisions or the war years.
Oh, and it was strange how she spoke of her husband not as Franklin, but as “my husband”!After the death of Franklin her role as a UN Delegate and Chairman of the Commission of Human Rights is meticulously covered, but here the writing sounded like a political speeches selling her views against the prevalent beliefs during the Cold War period.
She never stopped working; the book follows her through her 75th year, as an activist and speaker of human rights.
This is a very careful, guarded autobiography, written towards the end of Eleanor's life.
Even her political activities during this time are fairly opaque, and she often refers to incidents with the assumption that everyone will know what she is talking about, which might have been more true at the books publication fifty years ago.
It is clear, however, that FDR was an absolute genius in so many ways, with insatiable curiosity, a prodigious memory, a gift for listening to various points of view, and an unsurpassed sense for political power.
Eleanor lived through very interesting phases of the country's history - World War I, World War II, the suffrage movement, and the Cold War to name a few.
She played a significant part of her husband's presidency, being FDR's eyes, ears and legs, so to speak.I read this book because it was used heavily as a source in Noelle Hancock's "A Year with Eleanor." Hancock was an entertainment blogger who got laid off.
One day, she read a quote from Eleanor Roosevelt, "Do one thing every day that scares you." She took a year off to deal with her third-life crisis, and Eleanor's inspiration guided her through her "Year of Fear." Eleanor continues to be on my list of strong women whom I admire.
I first read it in 1960 just after I attended a lecture by Eleanor Roosevelt (1884-1962).
Many former first ladies were overwhelmed with the role but it brought out the best in Eleanor.
For anyone wanting to learn about Eleanor Roosevelt or about first ladies, this is a must-read book.I read this as an audiobook downloaded from Audible.
Gilbert is an actress, voice-over artist and audiobook narrator.
Gilbert won the Audie Award for the Best Female Narrator for 2017.
The organization had been brought to Roosevelt's attention by her friend, organization founder Mary Harriman, and a male relative who criticized the group for "drawing young women into public activity".Marriage and family life 1905 summer of 1902, Roosevelt encountered her father's fifth cousin, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, on a train to Tivoli, New York.
She continued to teach three days a week while FDR served as governor, but was forced to leave teaching after his election as president.Also in 1927, she established Val-Kill Industries with Cook, Dickerman, and Caroline O'Day, three friends she met through her activities in the Women's Division of the New York State Democratic Party.
I got into reading about past Presidents around the time of the inauguration and became very curious about Eleanor Roosevelt when reading about her husband.
If you're very curious about her childhood, then by all means read the first volume, but if not, read the wikipedia article for a summary and skip to the good stuff.
The second volume covers her years in the White House and contains many observations about the world and the US at the time.
Roosevelt spends more time in the third volume detailing her own worldview as a member of the UN delegation and Civil Rights committee.
Autobiography's always have a different flavour than historical fiction or biography's, eg books by Doris Kearns Goodwin.
One of the most interesting comments she makes is right in the preface" The reason that fiction is more interesting than any other form of literature to those of us who like to study people is that in fiction, the author can really tell the truth without hurting anyone and without humiliating him/or herself too much.......In an autobiography this is hard to do, try as you will.
Eleanor Roosevelt has always reigned in my mind as a champion for women and for civil rights, and in reading a biography about her you definitely get that sense.
To be fair, she did possess a quality of wanting to learn everything, meet everyone, and she rarely said "no" to an opportunity, so for her birth/status in the social pecking order she probably experienced a lot more of the unwashed masses than most people would.I'd like to point out that a biography gives a completely different perspective of Eleanor Roosevelt, her telling her own life story in her own words, however, does not paint her as a champion of the underdog, the downtrodden, or the common man.
Remarkable woman, way ahead of her time. I so admire how she accomplished so much and made her own way at that very tough time in history. She served as a delegate for the first session of the U.N. in 1946! Traveled extensivly throughout the world for different causes, all to try and make the world a better place for the unfortunate.
A particular thing that stood out to me was the birth of her first daughter and her first son.
It is as if this woman hides her heart.Mostly what this book brought to me, especially towards the middle and the end, was that it served as an apology for all the things that Eleanor and Franklin had done that the media had tried to lynch them for (as all media does -- deserved or undeserved).
The most interesting part of the book was towards the end after Franklin died where we learn of all the things Eleanor does after his death.
I hoped to get an understanding about their very unconventional relationship of living almost separate lives but being devoted to one another, while cementing their place in history during his political career.
I can't say that I have any better understanding of her devotion to Franklin to the extent that she appeared to form fond relationships with one or two of the other women in Franklin's life.
But, reading Eleanor's words describing how she fit into the world she was born into, especially her life as a child, helped me understand her loyalty to those she cared for and her desire to be an agent for change for women in her time.
Interesting but very much "of its time". Unlike today's culture people of Elanor's era did not talk about their feelings so while you get a very good picture of what she did, and some of what she thought you will not walk away with insights into what she felt after reading this.
"This is intolerable. We cannot permit it to go on. Our political conventions, as they now function, are as obsolete as outmoded machinery," writes Eleanor Roosevelt in the early 1960s. Sound familiar? If you want to read a story about one of the hardest working women in American political history, this one's for you!
I had actually known very little about Eleanor Roosevelt before reading this book.
A biography of Eleanor Roosevelt is fascinating because you really get sense of how she developed as a person.
It was a slow process for her and she didn't become the independent person we think of until well into her middle age.
She also shares more of her personal thoughts and ideas at the end.
Many of Eleanor's thoughts about world affairs are still applicable today (despite being post-Cold-War).
I was impressed with how humble yet fearless Eleanor Roosevelt was.
This book has excerpts and a synopses from Ms. Roosevelt's earlier work; This is My Story, and continues where said book left off; through Mr. Roosevelt's presidency, their years in the White House, her role as his eyes and ears when he couldn't travel due to illness, her leadership in the development of the United Nations Dclaration of Human Rights Bill, up through her personal and political life in the early 1960's.
While one gains insight into the development of Ms. Roosevelt's beliefs and persona in the first half of the book, the reader gains much more knowledge into her ideas towards politics, foreign affairs, human rights and the activist she later becomes.
There were some things I would have liked her to talk more about, and I found myself googling certain events or people that she mentions only in passing (or not at all, but I had read elsewhere) to fill in the blanks.
On the one hand, I can respect that when writing one's autobiography it is up to the author to decide what they feel comfortable disclosing for their own and other people's sake.
On the other hand, I cannot help but think that it is somewhat underhanded to omit certain facts which leave holes in the narrative and short change readers - surely if you have committed to writing an autobiography, some element of bravery is required?
This is one of my mother's books - she idealized Mrs Roosevelt - so I am looking for some insight.
I learned more from this book thanI ever would have in a classroom - and I am not a history buff.
I will read some more - in fact, I already have some chosen and next to my chair!I am mailing this to one of the Hens - who IS a history buff - I hope she makes notes inside it and send it on to someone else.
We are turning into a regular round robin of reading now!Enjoy!
I'm truly surprised at how interesting and well written this book is; almost a page turner.
(Of course not by today's standards.) As with most of us today, we only know Eleanor as an historical figure and a President's wife, but after the PBS series I really wanted to get to know more her as a person.
So far her book has not disappointed me.
Also very surprised that she was orphaned at 10 yrs old and raised by her very strict Grandmother.
Although she went to a boarding school in England and spoke French; her education was limited.
I would have liked to hear more about Eleanor's early life and more her feelings about her experiences.
It read like who's-who in society and politics throughout Eleanor's life and career.
The end was a little long and drawn out, giving her opinions on current events, that are obviously no longer current, but it was insightful to hear her talking in her own words about her feelings on the state of the US and the world.
There were a few key personal experiences (affairs) that were left out, that having her perspective and opinion on would have been welcome.
After watching the wonderful Ken Burns series on the Roosevelts, I wanted to know more about them, and this is where I began. This is no tell-all. Not a mention of FDR's affairs, and hardly any detail about Mrs Roosevelts relationships with her intimates. But it's a very interesting and inspiring read, and Mrs Roosevelt's opinions and beliefs are well ahead of their time. I found the latter part of the book the most interesting, but the whole is well worth reading.
Teas and travelFor the first half of this book we see Eleanor Roosevelt as the wife of FDR. In that roll she served a lot of tea to guests and took a backseat. I must admit I didn't find that too interesting.The last half of the book after FDR died Eleanor did a lot of world travel and work with the UN. Her view of the world is well presented and fascinating at times.
Eleanor Roosevelt's voice and personality really shine through! It feels like she's talking to you, not writing something formal. And it doesn't hurt that I agree with many of her views about war, democracy, and human rights!
Eleanor was a very inspiring woman. The dynamic between herself and FDR was interesting. They sacrificed a lot for our country.
So much of what Eleanor Roosevelt had to say about international relations, democracy, and the welfare of the individual are entirely appropriate to read today almost 60 years later.
She saw then how Russia planned and implemented bringing communism and socialism to poor neighboring countries.
She berated our own country for not doing more to promote democracy as the Russians were doing with communism.
She saw apathy in our electoral system as a serious problem and was always involved in politics.
She explained how her political involvement always arose from a desire to solve a human problem, like hunger.
For Eleanor politics was never about Nations but people.Fascinating read.

She is fairly upfront about her own weaknesses, and admits several times where she felt she made mistakes.FDR's presidency years go by quickly, so if you want greater detail about administrative details those would best be found in other books.
President Eisenhower evidently felt that he could establish an administration in the pattern of big business, but such an approach to the complexities of government is not necessarily either democratic or successful."There are a lot of good political insights like the above to think about in this book.
That said, I'm glad I read this, and it definitely offers a greater insight into the life of a fascinating woman.This book consists of four parts, each of which was originally published on its own.
As such, the first few sections of this book largely focus on her reactions to things rather than offering any personal insights into her thoughts or opinions.
That's where Roosevelt really starts to get into her own thoughts and opinions, and her life as a diplomat is fascinating.
If you're looking more for juicy details, Ken Burns' documentary on the Roosevelts or a biography written after her death will offer more insight.
My mother was one of the most beautiful women I had ever seen. Eleanor Roosevelt started out life as an orphan under the care of her strict grandmother. Awkward and painfully shy, her upper class upbringing was oftentimes lonely. She married her cousin Franklin before she was 20, had 5 children, and could have gone down in history as just another quiet politician's wife, but through helping FDR with his campaigns she was exposed to people from many different walks of life. She found her calling
I knew a bit about her life before, but this book definitely filled in some of the gaps.
The book is written in a very conversational tone which I appreciated, but there were definitely times where it got a bit repetitive.
I appreciated learning more about Roosevelt's life after FDR's death as very few books I have read about her devote more than a sentence or two to her work with the UN.
I would highly recommend this book to people wanting to learn more about Eleanor Roosevelt, or people who like political history or feminist history.
It was clear when reading this book (or in my case listening to the audio book of Eleanor Roosevelt's Autobiography), she spent most of her time explaining in extraneous detail of things that I thought didn't matter as much to my time.
Although I enjoyed Eleanor's writing style, and her way in telling her story, it's time for me to read something more hopefully more objective, perhaps Goodwin's No Ordinary Time and see if I could find out more.Lastly, if I could, I would abridge this audio to 1/3 of what it was, and I think it would be just as effective in letting 21th century viewers to understand her life and values.
wonderful!!!!!!
