https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113231.Platonov
Pero no debió ser así, o quizás existía una copia, porque en 1923 (19 años después de la muerte de Chéjov) se encontró un borrador y en 1933 se publicó.
Pero entre ellos destaca Platónov, un maestro de provincias desilusionado, considerado por todos como un hombre magnífico, especialmente por las mujeres.
Y es que esta obra es una obra misántropa y pesimista como sólo lo podría ser una obra escrita por un postadolescente furioso con todo el mundo.
Platónov también es malvado y lo sabe, pero lo único que lo distingue de los demás malvados es su conciencia.
Chekhov's first play is so good it's a shame no one reads it and no one stages it, as it's a real treat. A tragicomedy that is filled with laughs up until the final act, where it all goes sour. The threads are tied up beautifully.
No idea, and I’m fairly certain Mr. Chekhov didn’t know either.
It doesn’t work, but I can see why it’s performed more than one would expect: it’s such a long-winded mess that it gives actors and directors an enormous canvas on which to put their own mark.I didn’t enjoy reading Platonov, but I’m glad I read it.
Talented artists, such as Chekhov, make that finished product look easy.
Platonov is a reminder of the work that goes into creating masterpieces, that brilliance is not always achieved immediately: that, like learning any skill, it takes time and practice to become a master.
Bettie's Books
Une superbe adaptation moderne de l'oeuvre de Tchekhov !
I haven't actually read David Hare's adaptation, but since it's the only version of Chekhov's brilliant play that I can find on here I decided to add it anyway
Just as good the third time around.
totally fab. my favourite of his early plays.
ومن يعيدنا للقراءة بشغف سوى تشيخوف؟!
It's always difficult to judge a stage playscript as reading material. One keeps imagining how it would look on stage and how different would be that experience. Having said that, Frayn's translation/adaptation of AC's "Platonov" does its original more than justice. Flawed characters elicit great sympathy. Brisk, literate dialogue.
She is an unlike the middle aged women in his short stories, who seem gentle shy and retiring, instead Anna is intellectually and sexually his equal being direct and demanding, seeking one last grand passion before her life runout.
Sofia and Platonov were students together at university and had some relationship and possible intimacy, and now she realises that in choosing her dull husband and making a respectable marriage she has lost the grand passion she was seeking.
The original was vastly shortened, characters and sub plots were thrown out, but I don’t know the original so cannot make any comparisons, I can only respond to Wild Honey as a work in itself, a collaboration between Chekov and Frayn.
(Interestingly when originally staged in London in the 1980s, starring Ian McKellen, it was a critical success and a hit with the audiences, but when the production was transferred to Broadway – with a largely different cast, although McKellen still starred – it was a flop with critics and audience.) Chekhov’s mature work is often described as tragicomic – I’m not sure if tragic is the right word, but there is often a mix of humour and quiet desperation.
The introduction is a must read. I would love to produce this play in its entirety (which has never been done) because of the character development and seamless story arches. Chekhov is one of my top five favorite playwrights.
A Tolstoy farce!? Apparantly, one of his earlier works and I think he pulled it off quite well. Then again, maybe it's not just a farce. There's that familiar cynicism in the play and a lot of the strife which arises out of human relationships.
An early Chekhov, devastating with relentless farcical elements. Here is a Russian schoolmaster (often drunk), who is irresistibly attractive to four different women. You realize at the start it's probably never going to end well.
2,5
I quite preferred this adaptation of the Platonov material to the David Hare version--or rather, I liked the very particular purpose (well-constructed farce) to which this adaptation was put.
Village teacher Platonov's youthful ambitions are rekindled when Sofya arrives. Michael Frayn's adaptation stars Ian McKellen.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b00qg3sy
only read if you are hardcore.
I enjoyed what I read of this but have since gotten sidetracked by a need to read "Three Sisters" and have returned the book to the library. Maybe one day I'll finish it.
pure Chekhov! while a tragic ending (it IS Russian!) quirky idiosyncratic droll characters
