https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3706150-the-great-secret
Despite the back cover only advertising the title story, THE GREAT SECRET contains four short works: “The Great Secret,” “Space Can,” “The Beast,” and “The Slaver.” The book also includes a brief overview of pulp fiction and Hubbard’s contributions to the genre, a glossary to 1940s’ slang and terminology, and a short preview for the following issue.
In truth, it’s not much different from “The Beast,” if slavers replace the alien monster and captured slaves replace the racist villagers.
At the end of the day, the story isn’t terrible, but it’s not particularly noteworthy either.THE GREAT SECRET isn’t as great as the title suggests, but it’s not a terrible read either.
EZ Read is on the case!Our first short story “The Great Secret” explores one man’s painful desert crawl across a planet with (unfortunately) two suns, all in order to uncover the secrets of the Universe.
Apparently, Venus is a lush jungle planet with massive monsters and blue natives…if it sounds like the inspiration for “Avatar”, I would not doubt it.
For a reader used to heroes with unlimited manhood and confidence set on ‘eleven’, it’s actually a nice change to see some character growth and development.Short though these stories are, they are loaded with flavor and style, like a can of condensed soup.EZ Read Staffer Jenifer
Enjoyable, but not his best by any means. The title story was a variation on a very old story, fairly well told but not exceptional. Space Can was decent military science fiction, all action and no development. The Beast would have made a good Twilight Zone or Outer Limits story, weird enough that it worked well. For me, it was the highlight of the book. The Slaver was the weakest of the bunch, and the least believable to me.
The title story was just amazing.Highly reccommended for any lover of the pulps.
Supremely, spectacularly bad!
Golden Age science fiction/adventure stories full of pulp and trope.
The first story "The Great Secret" is read by Bruce Boxleitner (of Tron and Scarecrow and Mrs. King fame).
Not only does he have a great voice and perfect command of the character, he REALLY gets how these pulpy shorts should be read.
The other stories are honestly a bit of a let down after that intro, but they're all good in their way, as long as you are a fan of these types of golden age tales.

Several short stories most were really good but in a way made me feel cheated because they all could continue. Left me wanting to read more by the end.
Hidden in that city is the Great Secret that gave them mastery–once Marston learns it he will be all-powerful and able to rule the current civilization.
At last he finds the lost city and learns the Great Secret.
Instead, the Earth people have reverted to a semi-feudal social structure, and suffer slaving raids by the Lurgans.On this particular trip, the Lurgan slavers have picked up Kree Lorin, a young lord, as well as the usual peasants.
There’s a short preview of that story, and the usual potted biography of Mr. Hubbard.This is midlist pulp SF, enjoyable but no great shakes.
Ron Hubbard, a collection of shorts that originally appeared in various magazines of the 1930s and 1940s, when kids during the Great Depression and WWII took some comfort in these fanciful stories.I've collected or read these kinds of stories for some time now, and found that both Hubbard's and Heinlein's stories teach us lessons of the human condition, each with its own themes of redemption or honor -- or in some cases defeat!What's In Here?« The title story The Great Secret was not super exciting but did give a lot of description of one Fanner Marsten, an amoral thief and adventurer, who apparently has killed for the honor of discovering a lost city on a distant planet.
“Golden Age Science Fiction At Its Best.”Actually, this book contains four stories: THE GREAT SECRET, which was originally published in SCIENCE FICTION STORIES, April 1943; SPACE CAN; THE BEAST, and THE SLAVER.In THE GREAT SECRET Fanner Marston is the last survivor of a team searching for the mythical Parva, a lost civilization holding the secrets to the universe.
But the planet is known for its giant animal life, so what is the man-size beast that attacks Cranston and almost kills him?
Voris Shapadin, captain of the slaver, is parked on Earth and his men are capturing slaves to be returned to his home planet, Lurga.
Masa kecil yang kelam membuat seorang Marston menjadi gila perempuan, gila minuman keras, dan gila kekuasaan.
Marston pun menemukan kegairahan dan kegilaan mimpi yang baru.Demikian kekuatan inti cerita yang ditawarkan Hubbard di kisah The Great Secret.4 cerita di dalam buku The Great Secret ini terpusat pada genre sci-fi.Bagi pencinta hal yang terkait dengan alien, disuguhkan kisah Space Can. Bercerita tentang sebuah pesawat militer ruang angkasa bernama "Menace" yang berpatroli di luar angkasa untuk melawan alien super yang berasal dari Saturnus.
Bercerita tentang seorang Monster di Venus yang harus dibunuh oleh seorang pemburu dari Bumi.Bagi pencinta kisah yang lebih "romantis", disuguhkan kisah The Slaver.
Comes Up Short When Compared to Other Books in This SeriesRe-published by Galaxy Press in 2008Before L.
This collection consists of four short stories.The first story is "The Great Secret" which was originally published in Science Fiction Stories in April of 1943.
It is an okay story about a man who is willing to give anything to find out what the secret of a great, lost civilization was.Story number two is "Space Can" - the best story in the bunch.
Originally published in Astounding Science Fiction in July of 1942 it features a fight between two space fleets and the hand-to-hand combat that ensues."The Beast" is a forgettable safari tale based on Venus rather than Africa.
I got about 5 of these "pulp" collections as a gag-gift from my father, after sitting on the shelf for a brief period collecting dust, i decided to grab "The Great Secret" off the stack and peel right into it...On the positive side, the stories aren't the worst sci-fi i've read; mildly intriguing plots and boring characters pepper into Hubbard's insane and often improper vocabulary.
In the biographical supplement to "The Great Secret", Hubbard is scored among the ranks of Bradbury and Asimov, something I simply do not feel is true.
This was an extremely short book containing four shorter stories written in the 1940’s by a classic pulp fiction writer.I don’t usually get much satisfaction from short stories, although they’re ok for an occasional quick read.
This collection wasn’t any different -- the stories just didn’t contain much substance.
They were too short for any real character development, and each story provided little more than a snapshot of a key moment in a character’s life.
It had more character development and it felt more like a full story complete with an interesting ending.I’ve had this collection on my Kindle for years.
The kind folks at Galaxy Press have given me a few copies of their audiobooks over the years at semiannual ALA conferences.
It's a two-disc audiobook with music and effects.Overall this is a forgettable tome of mediocre tales.
The titular story takes place on a far-off wasteland of a planet and is ably read by the great Bruce Boxleitner, but that's about the best thing I can say about it.The remaining tales take place around Saturn, on Venus, and on a future Earth, respectively, and are passable but not particularly compelling.
For an author so capable in Sci Fi, these aren't his best efforts.Not recommended, but not dreadful, either.
With the loss of the greatest generation author Ray Bradbury, there is a new spotlight on Sci-Fi's Golden Age. This particular audio set surprisingly combines the best of the written and the visual, the great sound effects calling to mind The Twilight Zone and The Outer Limits.
The voicing is perfect also, with multicast performances, some discs featuring well-known Sci-Fi/Fantasy actors.
Some younger readers who are used to the modern Space Opera with stellar effects and character development, may be surprised by this procedural, man vs.
machine approach to storytelling, but it is representative of the Age. All-in-all, this is a very entertaining series and the beautiful packaging is a plus.
This is a good book consisting of various shorts written by L. Ron Hubbard. One story concerns a man that wants to gain power over the entire universe. Another is about a space destroyer and its ultra-brave crew. Another story, showing how different beliefs were back then, is about lifeforms on Venus and a guy who hunts nasty ones. Another story is about slavery. There's also a glossary of words used in pulps back then and a list of Hubbard's books by type. The stories are quite good for the time.
This book is comprised of 4 short stories. The first story The great Secret isn't very good, but shows a great deal of Lovecraft influence. The 2nd story, Space Can was the most interesting story in the book. The third and fourth stories were slightly better than the first. Character Development was non-existent in the slaver, as it was non-existent in the great Secret. The character development in The Beast was good, but the peculiarities of venusian society made that one confusing to start out with.
My first foray in Hubbard, likely my last. Yes, skeptical. Yes, I know it's 1940s pulp. So I will broaden my review to underscore my disaffection for pulp: the poor plot twists and Deus ex Machina endings, the simplistic machismo and duty-bound motivations, the meaningless revelations, and the overwrought--hugely awkward--attempts at imagery and originality ("What the scatterbrained hell is going on in there?"). I dug out a few of the short stories I had written in eighth grade: same criticisms.
A slightly random collection of sci-fi, with the jagged 'pulpy' paper widths giving the book a very odd feel. The stories themselves are mostly action oriented with little character development apart from the hunter of The Beast who learns fear for the first time. In The Great Secret a lot of the plot was baloney - be better prepared when traveling great distances over rough terrain!I think Hubbard needed the 10 volumes of Mission Earth to fit in all the action scenes and thoughtful reflection. Here in short form it is mostly action.
For a full review, see here:http://bookswithoutanypictures.wordpr...This collection of four of L. Ron Hubbard's pulp fiction stories is great if you're looking for grand adventures. Don't go in looking for literary masterpieces with overarching themes, etc. That's not why you read pulp fiction.Overall, I was impressed. The stories were written in the early 1940s but still feel fresh and relevant to modern audiences.
Fun pulp-sci-fi short stories. I actually feel like the characters in these short stories had more depth a realism than some of Hubbard's adventure shorts. My favorite was the story "Space Can" which hinted at a much deeper backstory and would have made a great chapter in a full space novel besides being a complete story unto itself.
Amusing. Dated. Love the reader (it's Tron!). This collection of short stories reminded me of Edgar Rice Burroughs. Generic action stories, but on other planets, or with out of this world twists (although really, there aren't a lot of surprises, pretty linear stories). Not bad to listen to on a long drive.
Full disclosure: I have purchased more than one L Ron Hubbard book at Ocean State Job Lot because they sell them there for One Dollar and Fifty Cents. I suppose there are worse ways to spend an hour than reading some cheap, campy science fiction.
A very nicely-produced and attractive volume which contains a handful of Hubbard's less-known early sf short stories. I suspect that none of them would have ever been reprinted had they not been written by Hubbard, but they were nostalgic fun for the most part.
The Great Secret, is action-oriented science fiction (ala Flash Gordon), but still a fun read. The book is short and would be a great read for a rainy afternoon.
isi nya cerita pendek , bingung juga, kirain bersambung rupanya pisah2 huhuhuhuh
What a collection of short stories with a moral in each one and cleverly written, exciting and well read (this was an audio book) good sound effects and very concise. In short I liked it a bunch.
These 1930's/40's pulp stories never get old.
