https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76985.The_Yellow_Feather_Mystery
The Good: This was an engaging mystery! Like any good whodunit, it kept me guessing until the end. The usual elements of this series--suspense, peril, action--were definitely present here. Fans of old-sch00l-style detective stories will love this.The Bad: Nothing, really; I just save the highest possible rating for truly spectacular works.Conclusion: What can be said about this series that hasn't been already said? You probably already know if this is for you, but, if you don't, you should give this series a try, even if you're not in the target audience.
If you like your trivia, this is one where Chet has a hobby which comes in handy (or at least, something he's made) and we find out a couple of things about Fenton, with the story being set at his old school.In a nutshell, it's a missing will story - the principal of the school dies and leaves behind a mysterious message and a hidden will.
This was a fun one, with plenty of dangerous bits to keep it interesting as an older reader, and one of the less complicated ones for those of us that don't like complicated.
The hardys almost get killed and freezed to death. The owner of a school past away, he leave a teenage boy in charge but when his uncles wants to take control of the school. The Hardy's must get to the end of it with Chet and other kids to help. They must find the money he lefted hidden in the school, his uncles trys to find it before they do. That is all I will say about the book.
The Yellow Feather Mystery By: Franklin W. DixonThe book The Yellow Feather Mystery,by Franklin W. Dixon is the author of The Hardy Boys series and is one of my favorite authors for many reasons, he has created some of the best books in my opinion. He has many great books and series, and The Hardy Boys is one of them!I have been a fan of his books for a while which is he is one of my many favorite authors. He has made so many books that I can't even tell which one is my favorite! His books make
DixonThe book The Yellow Feather Mystery,by Franklin W.
Dixon is the author of The Hardy Boys series and is one of my favorite authors for many reasons, he has created some of the best books in my opinion.
He has many great books and series, and The Hardy Boys is one of them!I have been a fan of his books for a while which is he is one of my many favorite authors.
It is one of the best ones and I recommend it for anyone who loves the mystery/adventure stories.
The Hardy Boys: Yellow Feather MysteryThe Yellow Feather Mystery was the 33rd out of 58 Hardy Boy books, and it was written by Franklin W.
It was a very interesting book.
The hardys almost get killed and froze to death.
The Hardy's must use Chet and other kids to help.
They must find the money he left hidden in the school before the uncle does.
I actually felt like I was in the book!
It is one of the best ones and I recommend it for anyone who loves the mystery/adventure stories.
I liked the book but I feel like it could use some more action in it like a chase after the crook or something like that. Asides from that I think that the book was great I think that the writing was good.
When they agree to help their friend Greg find the will of his late grandfather, Frank and Joe find their lives at stake when a criminal decides that he will risk fiendish acts to get what he wants! Dixon will please fans with this suspenseful entry!
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
This was a fun one. I always enjoy the isolated woodsy cabin stuff!
Rather unbelievable.
I recently pulled out my copy of Yellow Feather from the shelf which had aChristmas inscription from 1962 (I was 12 at the time).
This is an OTversion copyright 1953 in brown tweed with brown and white endpapers.The DJ lists to Devil's Paw.I'm sure I had not reread this book since 1962-63.
I did find this one to be quite enjoyable.
This book was never one of my favorites as a kid but I'm not sure why.Some of the ones I did consider as favorites such as "The SecretPanel" and "The Disappearing Floor" were somewhat disappointing whenreread as an adult.
Anyway, as I said, I thought this mystery was very enjoyable.
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.The two boys live in the fictional city of Bayport (on Barmet Bay) with their famous father, Fenton Hardy, a private detective formerly with the New York Police Department, their mother Laura Hardy (erroneously called Mildred in The Flying Express), and their Aunt Gertrude, a character often used for comic relief.
I actually thought this was a pretty good kids mystery. The criminal is obvious from the get go, but in true Columbo style the Hardy's badger him until they can prove it. The clues make sense and, other than the fact that it involved treasure (a repeated theme for The Hardy Boys) this is one of the more original outings for the pair.
On the front cover of the book: ""Christmas 1957." This was a gift, then, from many years ago. It is intriguing revisiting this so many years later. Dixon as a writer uses a style that does not always read well in 2010. Still, as I reread the mystery being solved by the two brothers (and assorted friends), I recall why I enjoyed this series so much as a youngster.
Another great Hardy Boy's book, a little different and maybe even darker than some of the others but still a great family book.The cover of our book is different than the one posted so it may be a different edition and slightly different.
Really enjoyed this Hardy Boys book. The boys are invited to solve a mystery at their fathers alma mater, a private high school. The owner has past away and the will is missing. To kept the school open they have to find the will, but of course a sinister person want to keep them off the trail.
1953 True First Rare
.i love this book! it's very exciting to read!
SM
They have lots of friends.
Needless to say, I probably haven't read a Hardy Boys mystery since 1979, or so. It's cute enough. Seems incredibly innocent compared to today's YA titles. But, sure, I'd give it to a kid to read.
Very good read (haha) and very intriguing. Loved reading this.
I found this one to be really interesting. But for some reason, whenever I think of the Hardy Boys, the song "The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence" by Gene Pitney comes to mind... ~(•~•)~
The Hardy Boys search for another criminal
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
i was bored, and didn't have ANYTHING else on hand to read. I think it's time to make a trip to the library!! :) don't judge me.. haha
Yep...just like I remember
The Yellow Feather Mystery was a very good book. It was very exciting, suspenseful, and easy to follow. The characters are creative and each have their own personalitys. A great story.
possibly read in winter 1966
Anybody remember Mr. Dixon's real name?
