https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1616343.Something_Childish_But_Very_Natural
If love was a red dressShort story writer Katherine Mansfield (1888-1923) was a perfect stranger to me until I got intrigued by a few sentences about her in Alexandra Harris’s short biography on Virginia Woolf, depicting her as a friend with whom Woolf had a thoroughly complicated and almost obsessive literary and personal relationship, mutually inspiring but also rivalrous.
This little collection, named after the ironic title of the first story, brings together eight short stories: Something Childish But Very Natural(1914); Feuille d’Album(1917); Mr and Mrs Dove(1921); Marriage à la Mode(1921); Bliss(1918); Honeymoon(1922); Dill Pickle(1917); and Widowed (1921).
Something Childish But Very Natural - Henry meets Edna on the train; he works in an architect's offi
A charming collection of short stories themed around the subject of love, most of which feel light and flippant on the surface, with an element of humour; many of which, however, contain a certain darkness.
'Bliss', which was my favourite of the stories in the book, also concerns a marriage; at a dinner party, the protagonist is overwhelmed first by what seems to be desire for a female guest, then by lust for her own husband, before the ending throws in a startling, sad twist.
I liked this collection and it was interesting to analyse the stories' meanings, but I felt they were lacking in the depth and complexity I had been hoping for, having not read Mansfield before.
Çok çok çok güzeldi ❤️
“Something Childish…” is a weird little impressionistic gem of a story, much more complex than its giddy true-love-at-first-sight opening would have you think.
When teenaged Edna and Henry meet on a train, I expected there’d be a long frustration of feelings before either Henry would grow a pair or Edna would part her much-hyped marigold-colored veil of hair to confess her attraction.
The ending of “Something Childish…” is something I guarantee you won’t see coming, and that I’m still trying to wrap my head around, but seems perfectly apt for the strange trajectory this takes.
Capturing the innocence and naivety of that tender age between childhood and adulthood, you observe the transition with such emotive and poignant accuracy.
Henry and Edna’s connection is reminiscent of when we glimpse our ‘first love’ or that individual, who incites such unfamiliar and overpowering emotions within.
When naïve Henry catches the eye of golden-haired Edna, he is stunned by such intensity and impassioned feelings that threaten to engulf his mind in confusion.
When I kissed you, I was afraid to love you...
Now that I love you, I'm afraid to lose you”-	Quote.
My first attempt at reading books by Katherine Mansfield.
First of all i like her pure handwriting style.
She can leave you in a complete suspense and she is strict at times.
I really liked the first story about Henry and Edna, the way they recognised each other, the way they took possessions of each other's names in the pause.
And knowing where you belong.
My favourite writer Woolf once said that Katherine was the only writer that she had been jealous of.
And knowing that if you long and wait for people, they just leave you.
If poems were stories, this is what they would look like.
Not, however, in an affected way; you'll find no struggles with tense or tediously overt wordplay here.
If you've read Joyce and are familiar with his ephiphanies, you might see a similarity in Mansfield's abrupt poignancies and her inbetween-the-lines open endedness.
Themes revolve around human failings, misunderstandings, the transient nature of joy, and what happens in the space of the unsaid.
Really, I feel each one is a different meditation on humanity, requiring a little pause to savour each.
Do yourself a favour and try a few stories.
Enamorarse es algo súper bonito, hacerle el quite no tiene sentido."You have only to say one word and I would know your voice among all other voices.
I don't know what is it- I've often wondered - that makes your voice such a - haunting memory...
You were so surprised because I did not know the names of any flowers.
But whenever it is very fine and warm, and I see some bright colours - it's awfully strange - I hear you voice saying: "Geranium, marigold, and verbena." And I feel those three words are all I recall of some forgotten, heavenly language...
Very good overall. Katherine Mansfield has a knack for capturing the little moments that define a certain point in a person's life. The opening story is very good of course. Written as a series of little vignettes, it perfectly captures that certain kind of ephemeral adolescent love, so potent but so fleeting. Other highlights are Bliss and A Dill Pickle.
Exquisite prose. More definitely modernist and more impressionist than her early attempts in "In a German Pension", these 23 stories and sketches show Mansfield's coming into her element. Can't wait for "Bliss and Other Stories". 2015 Reading Challenge: A book written by someone under 30
I just can't understand the lifestyle of the upper class. This book is rather boring.
Reading this book is like going back in time when life was not so fast-paced, people enjoyed riding trains, and the youth were not jaded as they are these days.Collectively, the stories depict love in its raw, profound form, in the different times in life that the human heart beholds it: when it clashes with innocence, when it is rekindled after being forgotten through time, or right in the middle of sadness out of a love that is lost.
My personal favorites are Bliss, Feuille d'Album, and the first story that carries the title of the book itself.

Katherine Mansfield's writing is not for me.
Mansfield definitely has a distinctive style and I can see how it could please other people.
The endless vaguery of it, however, in no way appealed to me and only drove away any interest in the stories' content.
I'm not opposed to abstract writing per se, but Mansfield's lyricism just feels forced and exaggerated.
Her style totally broke my connection to her characters.
I don't remember being this put off by her story 'the Garden Party', which I read for a Modernism class 3 years ago, but then again, I remember so little of what I've read.
"My name is Edna.""My name is Henry."In the pause they took possession of each other's names and turned them over and put them away, a shade less frightened than that.~ taken from the title storySomething Childish But Very Natural is a short story collection by Katherine Mansfield first published in 1914.Mansfield's way of writing about young innocent love is so heart warming and beautiful that I want to go back and read more of what she has written.
Cheesy at times and quite dated. Not bad over all, but certainly not my favourite book from this box set. To be fair, the story of the ex-lovers meeting randomly in a café 6 years after their affair struck home somewhat, and wasn't as clichéd as it looked like it was going to be. I liked that the stories did not really end happily, but I feel like it has a historical context out of which it cannot be read.
I before I started reading I really didn't know what to expect, but it happened that I liked the stories very much indeed. They are so intense, and the thoughts of the characters really come alive. And there was some kind of suspense that kept me reading, and it is a rare thing in a book.
A collection of short stories: Something Childish But Very Natural, Feuille d'Album, Mr And Mrs Dove, Marriage á la Mode, Bliss, Honeymoon, A Dill Pickle, Widow.The stories were nice but overall I just felt something was lacking.
omg i hated this. there was not one story that i enjoyed. i'm not counting this toward my reading goal because i didn't read all of the stories. Only 8 short stories totaling just over 100 pages and i just couldn't bring myself to finish it.
Quick and mostly sad short stories about romantic relationships. I particularly enjoyed how Mansfield presents her characters' actions without interpreting them or judging them for you.
lovely and cute.
It was ok. I guess the stories have hidden messages in them but yeah, it was ok. A 2.5
Nice n Springy.
Lovely little short stories on love. Bittersweet sometimes sad. My favorite: Bliss and Marriage a la Mode.
Favorite stories - The Tiredness of RosabelNew DressesHow Pearl Button was KidnappedLate at NightSomething Childish But Very NaturalThe Little GirlA Truthful AdventurePoisonSee-Saw
I enjoyed this so much, but now it's a couple of weeks later and I don't remember any of the stories other than the first one.
This small collection of short stories makes me want to go back and read everything Katherine Mansfield has ever written. Beautiful.
That just made me sad.
My favourites: The woman at the store, Millie, Violet, Late at night, This flower, Sixpence, Poison.
