https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/181131.Alexander_Who_Used_to_Be_Rich_Last_Sunday
Alexander is given money from his grandparents and he thinks he is rich.
The illustrator uses all black and white sketches throughout the entire book.
These simple sketches with no color leave a need for very detailed pictures to get the emotion in the book.
The illustrator show great emotion on the characters faces that really bring a mood to this book.
Alexander can look grumpy, mischievous, surprised, mad and nervous in a way that makes the reader really think of him as a real person.
The characters in the background are each sketched to have their own emotions that explain what is going on in Alexander’s day.
Although this book is definitely dated (the 1979 illustrations of the family made me really nostalgic for childhoods watching "Family Ties" -- and I can't imagine any kids who would be able to make $1.00 buy anything, let alone several things, these days) the concept is one that is timeless and especially relevant in today's difficult economy.
Alexander is given $1.00 from his grandparents--he WANTS to save it up to put toward a new radio, but somehow he just keeps on finding other things he wants to buy and pretty soon he is out of money.
Of course, this is also just a really great concept story for kids learning about the various things they can do with their money, some wise choices some not so wise!
The best lesson I've ever read, to teach kids about:* limited financial resources* the benefits of controlling impulse* the value of moneyBeautiful in that it doesn't preach or tell, it demonstrates by example.My son enjoys the story, and secretly picks up on the lessons...
I like the idea of this book: it's intended to teach children the importance of saving rather than spending.
will probably confuse a child in other countries (e.g. the UK).
By modern standards, I think that he got amazingly good value for his dollar, so I would say that he actually spent it wisely rather than frittering it away.
This means that the book is actually sending the wrong message!Also, the page where Alexander ponders how long it will take him to save up has several years listed (e.g. 1981), but that will confuse a modern child.
This book is great to use as a read aloud to students in grades 3 or 4.
The copyright of this book is older, but the story is something that children today can relate to.
All children save money and spend it on useless items.I would incorporate this book into my classroom by doing an interactive read aloud with the whole class.
I would love to use this picture book in my math lesson about money and have each student figure out how much he spent on each item and create one large math equation.
This is another classic book that I read as a child. It's funny and has some good lessons for kids about spending and saving. It's all in black and white so it may not be the most attention grabbing, but the illustrations are still well done and I love the facial expressions."Last Sunday, when I used to be rich, Cathy around the corner had a garage sale. I positively only went to look. I looked at a half-melted candle. I needed that candle. I looked at a bear with one eye. I needed that bear."
This was a cute book, it is about Alexander who receives a dollar from his grandparents and his first plan is to save it but instead he spends it all and is only left with some bus tokens. This is a great book for learning about the concept of money. I would use fake coins to express how many of each coins makes up a dollar and could expand the lesson by creating a class store and having the students buy items that would add up to be a dollar.
Shows how quickly a windfall can disappear. It's on a micro-scale in this story, but the lesson holds true universally. Good story to introduce fiscal responsibility to kids. We really enjoyed reading this book together and I will be sure to look for more books by Judith Viorst at our local library.
This book really helped us understand how adding and subtracting well helps us spend our money smartly.
Alexander, Who Used to Be Rich Last Sunday, by Judith Viorst, tells the story of a little boy named Alexander, who ended up spending the whole dollar that his grandparents gave him last Sunday.
Not only is the text humorous, but anyone reading or listening in our modern day world can't help but empathize with Alexander's money problems -- whether children or adults.
The kid-friendly story is perfect for children from Kindergarten all the way up to 3rd grade, and can easily be incorporated into a math lesson -- since the whole plot of the book centers around money.
Text-To Self Funny, funny read! The book “Alexander, Who Used to Be Rich Last Sunday,” by Judith Viorst, and illustrated by Ray Cruz took me back to the experience of sibling rivalry and older brothers. Alexander and his brothers receive a dollar each, from their grandparents when they came to visit. Alexander, being the youngest, has a difficult time using his money wisely. His impulsiveness and immaturity lead to him spending all his money. His older brothers exacerbate his situation by teasin
The book “Alexander, Who Used to Be Rich Last Sunday,” by Judith Viorst, and illustrated by Ray Cruz took me back to the experience of sibling rivalry and older brothers.
Alexander, being the youngest, has a difficult time using his money wisely.
Memories of my older brother teasing me made me laugh aloud and took me back to when I was a little girl.
I believe if I could extend the story of “Alexander, Who Used to Be Rich Last Sunday,” he would feel the same way I do as the teasing is done with complete love.
It provided "thought bubbles" and illustrations of Alexander losing money, which made it easier to follow along using the pictures in the story.
Teaching Point: I would use this story in a 2nd grade classroom to coincide with my instruction on how to count money.
Alexander begins by sharing how many coins and dollar bills each of his brothers has (I could use manipulatives or drawings to help students count the coins).
Then, he is given one dollar, but he spends it on various items throughout the story (students could subtract each amount he spends from his original amount until they reach 0).
This book is wonderful for today's students, even though it was written in 1978.
He finally ends up empty handed and tries to sell bottles, rent toys, and find money to replace his lost dollar.I loved this book.
The illustrations were bland, but that was appropriate for this book because it added to the seriousness of Alexander's predicament.
It teaches a lesson we don't hear very much of today - frugality and saving.This book would great to use in math because of the monetary value of the items in the book.
It would also be good to have a discussion about savings and self-control.
"Alexander Who Used to be Rich Last Sunday" is a great read for young children who are beginning to learn and understand the concept of money.
This book shows how Alexander started out with the dollar that his grandparents gave him, and describes how he spent his money and how much he spent on each item.
This book also shows how Alexander needed to save his money but couldn't resist the urge to spend it.
Overall, the story line of this book is great and it is a great example to use when teaching children about the concept of money and all of its key elements.
This is an anchor text in our second grade reading curriculum, and I must say, I love reading it with my students each year!
I grew up loving the Alexander books.
We use this text to teach point of view, and how a writer can tell a story through a character's eyes.
We also use it for making inferences with illustrations connecting to the text.
As we work with this one for a few days, we also use it to help promote reading fluency and reading with expression.
Alexander is one of the most expressive characters I can think of in the picture book world!
Summary:Alexander’s two older brothers both have more money than him, because he only has bus tokens left.
He meant to save his money, but instead ended up using it all on different things, like gum, bets, flushing it down the toilet, dropping it, and at a garage sale.
He tried to do different things to get some money like turning in cans or losing some teeth, but that didn’t work either.
So, all he ended with was a few bus tokens.
Learning to save money.
2. Spend money wisely.3.
Be careful with your money, don't drop it anywhere.

Most illustrations are on every page in this book.
I think it is very good for children to understand the story of this book because illustrations can show how the story flows.
In addition, illustrations are expressed Alexander's emotions very well.
This book includes a course that Alexander spended his money.
When children get their allowance from their parents, they have a lot of plan how they use it.
At first, they are rich so they spend money fast.
This situations is expressed very well by Alexander.
And this book includes a unit of money so children can learn the unit of money.
Alexander Who Used to be Rich Last Sunday was written by Judith Viorst and illustrated by Ray Cruz.
This is a great book for children to learn to save their money.
Alexander starts out with one dollar and everyone told him to save although he wanted to by walkie talkies with it he ended but having to pay for a few things throughout the book.
In the end Alexander spends his money and then is stuck with some not so great items.
He wishes he would have saved it.
Overall this book teaches children to save their money rather than spend it.
This book has a rich sequencing plot and it also used past events in the plot. The images of the book are black and white. They make the book different, but it makes the book a bit boring. However, as mentioned, the rich plot and word choice help the keep the reader's attention. The cover of the book is very vibrant and gives the character physical characterizations that are not shown once the book in opened and read. The boy kept buying stuff with the dollar and could not figure out how his money began to disappear.
We love Alexander's 'Terrible Horrible No Good Very Bad Day'. We liked 'used to be rich last Sunday' (probably me more so than Miss 4, but it was useful for talking about saving vs spending). 'I'm not moving' didn't appeal (probably more helpful if you have an upcoming move).Miss 4 and I like to explore different books and authors at the library, sometimes around particular topics or themes. We try to get different ones out every week or so; it's fun for both of us to have the variety and to look at a mix of new & favourite authors.
I found this book to be very entertaining and interesting for children and also very cute for the adults reading it. The concept of this book is very relatable especially for children who consider a few dollars to be "rich". I think this book would be a good read a loud because children would have very many responses and relations to Alexander. The illustrations were interesting because they lacked color but overall the story was portrayed and told very well.
I thought this book was awesome and had a lot of great lessons in it for kids. Alexander receives money and ends up with none because he spends it all. I think this shows children not to spend their money all in one place and also the value that money has. However I found the illustrations quite boring just because of the fact that they were in all black and white. Overall it was a great read that you can learn a lot from.
This book is about Alexander. His grandparents came and gave him and his brothers money. His brothers saved theirs and Alexander spent his so he is angry because his brothers have money and all he has is bus tokens.I liked this book. This book teaches kids a good lesson that money is exciting to have but the choices you make with it have different results. If you choose to spend it, you won't have it anymore.(Contemporary Realistic Fiction)
I love this book but who doesn't love Alexander of Australia fame! Once again Alexander gets the short end of the stick or in this case the grandparent money tree. My kids loved adding up the different money amounts that the brothers had saved and subtracting the money that Alexander spent. It is a fun little book to use while teaching money.
This was a very good book. When I first reads the title, I thought this boy was going to have a lot of money hen he ended up getting one dollar. In my opinion, that is not a lot of money but to character it was. The illustrations were very simple and creative. I believe this book is from young to older readers.
Alexander receives a dollar from his grandparents. He wants a walkie-talkie and his mother tells him to save his money, however, Alexander has a very difficult time with this. He eventually ends up with no money at all. This could be a great teaching tool on the importance of saving money or could be implemented into a lesson on currency.
A book that supports mathematical understanding, but it's more than that too. It's a story of family and friends. Alexander is very relatable and he manages to spend/lose his money on no end of pretty silly things, such as gum, and bets he always loses.
Alexander explains how he lost his money and how hard it is to have older brothers. He is trying to find any money he can. Even though amounts of money and their worth are different now, this book is definitely relatable for any children trying to save up money.
Alexander's grandparents give him a dollar, which he has good intentions for, but gradually it disappears.
