https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96458.Get_Off_the_Unicorn
I'll try to detect that one early and skip it.Contents:Introduction: McCaffrey explains that the title of the book comes from a misreading of an earlier anthology with the title Get of The Unicorn (The misreading could have been prevented if it'd been given a less ambiguous name: say, The Unicorn's Children.).Lady in the Tower: So why SHOULD high-powered telepaths all be raging agoraphobes?A Meeting of Minds: One of the reasons the Rowan stories are so disappointing is the repetition of tired cliches.
It does seem a bit odd that any society would have a critical shortage of I-131, though.(Another interlude)The Thorns of Barevi: This is the story where a woman accepts being raped.
This collection of short fiction is great pick for a McCaffrey fan. There are many stand-alone tales along with stories from the Pern and Brainship series as well as the two shorts which preceded The Tower and the Hive series. The Brainship short should most definitely be read by those who already have some familiarity with the series, though the others hold their own regardless. While I could have lived and died without reading "The Thorns of Barevi", the rest of the stories were enjoyable to some degree or another.
In an effort to clear my shelves I am "forcing" myself to read books I've had for just about forever.
I should have read it back then; I would have enjoyed it more.This book contains a dozen short stories, many of which exist in the worlds of her various series.
Of her series I've mostly read the Pern books so most of the stories in this book didn't grab my attention on familiarity nor did they keep me interested enough to want to seek out their series.Collectively they seem to center on ideas of gender, age and the burden of power.
Several are short stories that she thought could be books someday, such as the Raven women.
I picked this up as a vacation from life and it worked very well.Addendum: Lots of people are complaining about how McCaffrey condones rape and sexism.
While they do make the point that there is some, and I won't disagree, I also think that people are getting too hung up on it.
I agree Thorns on Barevi is about a woman who comes to like the man raping her and that isn't so great.
I also think people are getting way too hung up on potential rape in the Pern series.
The usual collection of rape, slut-shaming and misogyny from an author I used to think was pretty cool.TL;DRNot Terrible: Horse From a Different Sea, The Great Canine Chorus, Finder's Keeper, Apple.Avoid At All Costs: A Meeting of Minds, The Thorns of Barevi, HoneymoonLady in the Tower: This later became part of the novel The Rowan.
This book is a collection of fourteen short stories. These are mostly boring, rather tedious sci-fi renditions that, frankly, don’t hold up well over the decades. A couple of the stories, supposedly for the Young Adult market, are especially dull. The story about the Smallest Dragon Boy and the Thorns of Barevi might be of interest to McCaffrey fans.
Or in "Honeymoon" (HAH!)the assumption that a "brawn" must be watched for signs of obsession with the brain, for fear he might be so overcome by lack of sexual stimulation during long space flights that he might crack open the shell of his defenseless "brain" and rape a physically stunted person covered in nutritive fluid whos brain is exposed and connected with wires to the very functions of the ship which keep him alive?
Hello, not the time for gettin' it on no matter that it's sex by proxy!It's just depressing that in her world we can have hyperspace, sophisticated ships and explore strange peoples and lands, but there is no way to deal with the male mammalian sex drive.
On rereading it, I definitely think so and I suggest anyone interested in cases where the SF author pretty much got the future right (in the concepts rather than the specifics), take a read of this 1973 short story.My favourites remain:Lady in the TowerA Meeting of MindsDull DrumsFinder's KeeperThe Smallest DragonboyHoneymoonI still think the most problematic story is Thorns of the Barevi as it is basically a rape fantasy and not a very good one at that.
(So if that is an issue for you, skip that one.)Three of the stories here later went on to be novels (Lady in the Tower --> The Rowan; A Meeting of Minds --> Damia; Thorns of the Barevi --> Freedom's Landing).
I first read this collection of McCaffrey short stories when I was a kid, and, having devoured both the Dragon Rider series and the Brain Ship series, I wanted more of her work.
I also loved it for clearly being something I probably "shouldn't" have been reading.Reading it now, almost 40 years after its original publication, I still love it, but more for McCaffrey's notes before each story.
It's bittersweet to read think these characters will not see the light of day past the short stories contained here.
These short stories, all by McCaffrey were fascinating to me when I found this book.
I had previously only read her Pern books, and seeing her write about different worlds and times was eye-opening.
The original title was Get OF the Unicorn, as in "offspring" of the unicorn, meaning that these stories were spawned by the fantastic.
Yeah, still a bit weird, but the rumor around town is that the copyeditor didn't understand the title, and added the extra 'f', which no one noticed until the books were printed .
I still remember my mother coming into my 6th grade English classroom, talking about our library of over 500 books at home, and reading The Girl Who Heard Dragons to our classroom.
Everyone was rapt (though of course, I'm sure some were just being polite), but I was never more proud of my mother, nor more excited about reading, than at that moment.
I remember asking my mother if I could read that book, and while I think The Girl's story was the best of the lot, they were all a good minor read.
Of course, they're always better when you had a teaspoon of nostalgia.
Man, I am utterly incapable of being objective about Anne McCaffrey.
Do some of the stories feature outdated views about gender?
Does the 70s soft-core porn story have strong overtones of rape-but-she-secretly-wanted-it?
Some of the stories are better than others, I guess is what I'm saying, but I love them all.
I love the Pern stories and the ones about psi talents.
And the Rowan!
I love the Rowan!
Like I said, totally incapable of objectivity.
(This was a re-read.
I have no idea when I originally read these the first time around.
A strange little book from a generally great author.
Some good stories in here (The Littlest Dragonboy stands out for me, for all its simplicity) but there is a large amount of sexist behaviour which simply wouldn't be tolerated today.
I also felt the Talent stories (later developed into The Rowan and Damian) did not work very well outside the context of their later expanded story.
Also, the whale story was weird and made no sense and the Santa story was depressing.
My recommendation - stick to her full novels, which are generally very good!
Not Ms. McCaffrey's normal fare of hope.Finder's Keeper (1973) - A young Talented Finder tries to avoid being taken over by a man with gray morals.A Proper Santa Claus (1973) - Everyone outgrows Santa Claus and magic.The Smallest Dragonboy (1973 - Dragonriders of Pern Universe) - I think this is the only story in the book which hasn't become out-dated, mostly because it wasn't set on contemporary earth.Apple (1969 - Talent Universe) - Sometimes even the FT&T had failures; not everyone is salvageable.Honeymoon (1977 - Helva, the Ship that Sang Universe) - I loved this as a bookend to the Helva story.
Some of these stories are absolutely fascinating and others I had trouble understanding parts.
Mostly, Ms. McCaffrey does a wonderful job with imaginative subjects.
Four of the fourteen stories have to do with themes she has developed in other books.
There is one dragonrider story, one Ship Who Sang story, and two Rowan stories.
The other stories came out of her fertile imagination and deal with subjects such as a water world where whales are "milked", people with "Talent" such as kinesis, telepathy, etc, and other even odder subjects.
My favorite story is The Great Canine Chorus; my least favorite Apple.
In my opinion, "The Smallest Dragonboy" was the best short story in this collection but, then again I'm more into Anne McCaffrey's "Dragonriders of Pern" series than anything else she wrote. Though I skipped the last story, because she mentioned that if the reader hasn't read "The Ship Who Sang" they should at least read that book first so that the short story would make sense. All the rest of the stories made sense on their own, considering I've never read "The Rowan" series, I found the two stories about it every intriguing though a bit confusing at times.
Collection of short stories. Some of the stories are 5 star, some 4 star, most of the rest are "read once is enough". I did not like the proper Santa Claus one. I had been searching for an ebook of The Rowan novel for some time, so was very happy to see the original shorter version included here, as well as Honeymoon which continues the Helva and Naill story from The Ship Who Sang.
Lady in the Tower.--A Meeting of Minds.--Daughter.--Dull Drums.--Changeling.--Weather on Welladay.--The Thorns of Barevi.--Horse From a Different Sea.--Great Canine Chorus.--Finder's Keeper.--A Proper Santa Claus.--The Smallest Dragonboy.--Apple.--Honeymoon.
I read this years ago. I loved it just as I love most of what Anne McCaffrey writes!
This is an entretaining fast-paced bookHe beggining and second act are boring
I liked almost every story in this book which is quite rare.
Only 3 stars for my favorite author? Well, I just don't like short stories. I just figure out what they are on about, and the story is over. Nuff said.
I found this to be trudging and uninteresting.
just ok . but she was just trying her hand on something new.
Nice collection. It is well worth it just for the three stories of Pern, the Brainship Helva and the origin of Catteni/Freedom novels.
We find out at the end that this was supposed to be a mother-daughter bonding tale.4.
Horse from a Different Sea: This was a weird story about a mysterious illness that men get after spending time with a certain whore.
Finder's Keeper: Another story that I am assuming comes from a pre-center Pegasus world.
The Smallest Dragonboy: THIS IS THE STORY I READ THIS WHOLE BOOK FOR!!!
Apple: Later incorporated into To Ride Pegasus and you can find my review of The Wings of Pegasus (which contains that story) for my impressions.14.
#2 is significant because I read this story in elementary school and LOVED it but could never remember the name of the story.I bought this book thinking that it would be all Pern stories, but I am incredibly glad that I was wrong.
This collection of short stories ranges from stuff you could read in an elementary school class (The Smallest Dragon Boy) to soft-core porn...very soft admittedly, but there is lots of talk about sex and even a rape in one story (Honeymoon and The Thorns of Barevi, respectively).
You can understand it without background, but if you're like me, you just don't care!Over all, this is a pretty good overview of McCaffrey's writing, for better or for worse.
A marvelous selection of short stories that introduce you to some of the other works of Anne McCaffrey.Lady in the Tower - 4 stars, I just love a good parapsychic romance.
The story was later expanded into  The RowanA Meeting of Minds - 3 stars, another parapsychic romance.
This collection of short stories from Anne McCaffrey is almost like an excerpt compilation from her other works.
The Rowan & Damia from The Tower & The Hive, The Catteni Series, The Pern Series, The Talent Series, and The Ship Who Sang are all represented here, along with a few others.
The other books I have read so long ago, that they were nice reminders of why I like McCaffrey so well.
Go read the books mentioned above.One stand-out story from the collection that I will review is Weather on Welladay.
Do read the full works mentioned before, though.
"The Smallest Dragonboy" is set in her popular Pern universe--it's an enjoyable, even if not outstanding story.
"The Thorns of Barevi" is set in the same universe of Freedom's Landing and its sequels (although to be honest, that was my least favorite story in the book--too rapey.) And my favorite story in the book was "Honeymoon." Definitely not a standalone, McCaffrey warns in her introduction The Ship Who Sang should be read first.
I recently reread short story anthologies by Orson Scott Card and James P.
So no, McCaffrey might not be in the same league as Isaac Asimov or C.L. Moore--but she's very enjoyable--and, I decided, a keeper.
