https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4658.Setting_Free_the_Bears
Book #1 in my John Irving Challenge (2017), wherein I will attempt to read all of John Irving's novels in order of publication within one year.I think this sums up my experience with this novel nicely: A character dies on page 90 and I did not realize he was dead until page 212.
It got on my nerves, having to stop reading in order to Google animals so I knew what he was talking about.
What made it even more annoying was having to stop reading IN THE MIDDLE OF THE ACTION so I could clearly picture this crazy cast of animals.I'm glad I know Irving gets better over the course of his career.
Disaffected student Hannes Graff hooks up with free-wheeling motorcycle enthusiast Siegfried (Siggy) Javotnik and they embark on a picaresque jaunt across Austria, encountering many odd individuals, both human and otherwise, along the way.
Circumstances intervene and the mantle is passed to Graff.Irving had studied in Vienna and the first draft of this novel was later submitted as a Master's thesis at the University of Iowa.
Part Two contains selections from the journals of Siggy Javotnik, which alternate between two narratives.
The novel has many elements which work successfully in Irving's later books.
There’s also some downright strange wording: “I could peek how the helmet nearly covered her eyes”; “the rain still puddled the courtyard”; “When his spongy ribs whomped the cobbles, the horse said, ‘Gnif!’” I couldn’t decide if this was Irving trying to show that the story is set abroad or if it was just evidence of bad writing.
My husband is enough of an Irving fan to have gobbled the book up by the time we reached Austria, but I decided it wasn’t going to get much better.
That’s a shame, as I would have liked to get to them, you know, actually setting free the bears at the Vienna Zoo.
It's been more than 20 years since I first read this book and I'm happy I did the re-read.This is John Irving's debut novel, and right from the start it's clear he is a major talent.
After hooking up with young and bright-eyed Gallen, Hannes brings his new girlfriend to Vienna, and they execute a zoo-break that heads in a direction they couldn't foresee.Irving uses the device of Siggy's notebooks to take the reader on an adventure of zoo liberation, but also gives an extensive history of the German-Austrian Anschluss, as experienced by Siggy and his family.
I quit on this book.
The remaining 250 pages, which changes dramatically in tone and format, is excerpts from a diary of one of those two guys and is painfully dull to read.
I struggled through 100+ pages of this, wanting to get back to the narrative but it didn't come and so I quit.
There are too many good books around to waste your time on something as unremarkable and unpolished as this, I figure.
Okay, I haven't read Eugenspiel, but I'm not sure what about Irving's writing here bears comparison with Kesey.
Irvings prose is flat and childish, nothing like the rich textured world that Kesey can paint.
I had high hopes for this book because I've loved everything else by John Irving. This book is bad, really bad. It was so bad I couldn't even finish it.
Ma allora mio padre era giovane e le sue idee erano estrose quanto la sua età.Quindi acerbo o meno, prolisso magari un po’ qui e un po’ là, dalla struttura binaria come quello di una doppia pista di idee, cosa tipica dei talenti, io sono comunque un manifesto di brillante fantasia (io volevo dire “acuminata brillantezza” ma la signorina So tutto io mi ha detto che “brillante fantasia” rende meglio).Così, siccome ho saputo che voi misurate le cose a stelline (che razza di metodo cretino, non potreste limitarvi a dire, bello, brutto, discreto, orripilante?), mi auto-promuovo portatore di tre stelline e tre quarti.
Ok kirja moottoripyöristä.
I remember starting it years ago and simply never getting further than a few pages into the notebook.
But, lock a man up in Korea for a year and he's bound to read anything you throw at him so I figured I'd tough through it this time.
Thankfully I felt my time was rewarded.What I simply do not grasp is how a young man of only 25 can just sort of 'bang out' such a remarkably intricate tale.
John Irving has some reoccurring themes in his books, bears, accidents, strange sexual behavior.
Useless stuff mostly, how they sound, how they suck air, what it feels like to burn your legs on a tailpipe, what types of motorcycles the Vermacht used, how you should always use your front brake, how to best toss a grenade under a parked car while driving one, the list goes on and on.
I would give a few of his books 5 stars but this one lacked something his best work has.
I would love to have someone who knows something about the workings of MOTORCYCLES read this book and tell me if he is full of scheiße.
Irving's first shows signs of great storytelling to come, but is awkward and silly at times. Recommended for completeists.
Varmaankin hieno klassikkoteos,mutta enpä ole typerämpää kirjaa lukenut pitkään aikaan.Kyllä meni aika hukkaan,ihan harmittaa.
This makes me sad to admit but John Irvings books have been such disappointments lately - and I used to consider him one of my favorite authors. The ones Ive read recently are boring, reading them feels like a chore instead of a gripping enjoyment. Setting Free the Bears has a similar style to Irvings later novels and it even features some of the elements (like bears) that seem to always come up in his stories. The history parts especially have some funny bits, but I found the women to be writte
This makes me sad to admit but John Irving´s books have been such disappointments lately - and I used to consider him one of my favorite authors.
The ones I´ve read recently are boring, reading them feels like a chore instead of a gripping enjoyment.
Setting Free the Bears has a similar style to Irving´s later novels and it even features some of the elements (like bears) that seem to always come up in his stories.
I really hope I´ll find more gems by John Irving or else I´ll stop searching.
It feels like I either absolutely adore his stories or almost despise them.
Pero a diferencia de sus libros malos de solemnidad como La cuarta mano, Libertad para los osos peca sobre todo del exceso y la falta de mesura que caracterizará a su producción posterior pero que en este libro el autor aún no es capaz de controlar y convertir en materia literaria, de manera que termina ahogando toda la trama narrativa.El tema de la excentricidad personal como única forma de afrontar una realidad brutal, que tan prominente será en sus obras fundamentales como La vida según Garp y Oración por Owen, ya domina en la novela primeriza de Irving.
There's a desire to evoke wartime Vienna in all its rebelliousness - but Irving adds too much improbability.
A bunch of my gripes with this book probably are because it's not the first Irving I've read, though it was the first novel he wrote.
But here, the intercutting of WWII history with the modern (well, 1960s) day is a bit hamfisted, and seems to exhibit a little too much desire to impress the reader.
Humour is the one thing I associate with Irving, and it seems in short supply here.
If you want to read more of Irving, this isn't the place to start.
I had never read a John Irving novel before, but I gathered that he was a writer of great repute and I decided where better to start than with his first book.
Written as a series of small scenes that link together into a greater narrative, as told by the hero, Hannes Graff.
Graff befriends a fellow oddball, Siegfried Javotnik, and the two go on a road trip and hatch a hair brained scheme to free the animals from a zoo in Vienna.
Overall an entertaining book, and I look forward to reading more John Irving in the future.

I love John Irving.
To be honest, I can't quite figure out what is going on half the time!
I feel nothing for any of the characters, and although a lot of Irvings well-loved themes are present in this book, there is nothing to hook me in and make me want to read on!I'm so disappointed, being such an avid fan!
Perhaps I'll pick it up again at some other point and be able to get my teeth into it, but for the forseeable future, I'm afraid that this is going to be shelved and unread!!
For me the form of this novel is more interesting than the content; short scenes, almost vignettes with names like “Fine Tuning” and “The Beast Beneath Me” that are self-referential and also used as direct lines in earlier and later passages.
Brief (bad) poems appear, and also little half-truth phrases such as: “Good habits are worth being fanatical about.”The middle of book is interleafed notebooks of Siggy, one being “Highly Selective Autobiography” and other being “Zoo Watch”.
All is past tense, and this factors importantly in the future of the book.
As Siggy says: “it’s the pre-history that made us and mattered to what we’d become.”I like that idea, and the reckless naivety of the characters.
The gasthof is a castle.Cared forGallen comes and changes the towel-bandage in the dark…Graff wants to see the welt on her neck, the welt from him, Siggy is getting him forsythia petals.Out of the Bathtub, Life Goes OnPoem…Notorious Graff, Lord of the Tub…the flowers/petals are for the room, says Siggy.
Siggy seems upset that Graff had to take a job, etc… Keff takes the pins off the door to enter.
Keff asks about Graff/Gallen…later, crossing road, they hear steps…it is her.How Many Bees Would Do for You?Coming w/the news, uphill, since Waidhofen.
Interesting insight into John Irving's later work.
Irving delivered a cast of colorful characters, as I expected, and the wordplay was delightfully fun.
I found it particularly hard to follow along during certain parts of Siggy's notebook, especially (view spoiler)[when Zahn Glanz is dressed up as the eagle and driving around Vienna  (hide spoiler)].
It was interesting to read John Irving's first novel and see all sorts of little elements that come back in his later works.
This novel really is a first novel and doesn't have the same impact as Irving's later work.
However, it was a fun read and I definitely don't regret it.
John Irving has written several well-known books, my favorite being "A Prayer For Owen Meany."This one, while showcasing Irving's ability to create quirky characters and an almost unbelievable story premise, didn't grab me like a couple others have.
Siggy and Graff plot to ride off on a motorbike to the Vienna Zoo and set the animals free.
Siggy is the more interesting character to me and I'm sorry he became so ...
dull in 'notebook' section.
At any rate, I found it dull.
I've been known to do that.All in all, I liked the story but it's not a repeater for me.
Having read now some of your most popular works, I thought it only right to return to the source. And what a rich outpouring of ideas and insanity did I find! This was like Irving without a filter. All the experimentation of a new author is so darn clear, and I love it. Some of the historical sections in the middle lacked a tether I felt, and needed to be slightly more cohesive and story backed, but the first and last sections were brilliant. As always Irving manages to make ordinary situations absolutely extraordinary through his brilliant craft.
A wonderful escape, summer read.
Like any John Irving book it's not free of tragedy, but it's one of his lighter books.
Love the little details in there that you can't forget, like stealing salt shakers and silverware from a restaurant.
I'd love to have this degree of freedom some time.
I honestly can't remember if women in this book are characterized as more than "a tall glass of water" because it's been a while since I read it and I remember that bothering me a bit.
But I loved it for the immense freedom I felt while reading it.
I gave this horribly dull book over 150 pages.
First there was an adventure on a motorbike which was okay but written with the first novel words of someone who will be great but not yet.
Then came the politics of Austria just before WWII and the adventurer planning to set free the bears at a zoo.
This part as compelling (the zoo part) but much shorter than the ramblings of an autobiography filled with boring prose and impossible names.
Had to put it down which I'm loath to do but life is too short to waste on this terrible book.
Didn't know John Irving could be so dull.
Schelmenroman, avonturenroman. Twee jongens gaan op een motor het avontuur tegemoet en ontwikkelen, anti-autoritair juist vanwege de naweeen van een tijdperk van autoriteit van Nazi-Oostenrijk, het plan om de dieren in een dierentuin los te gaan laten. Hun vrijheidsdrang en levenslust worden sprankelend en vol vertelplezier aangevoerd. Onbekommerd is het echter niet, met de wonden en alle doden van de oorlog nog vers in het geheugen. Overal "de rol van het niet goed met elkaar omgaan", waar Irving op zinspeelt.
I'll be plain--I hated this book. Yet I finished it, in hopes it might improve--after all, I've really enjoyed 4 of John Irving's other books, so how could this, his first novel, go that wrong? It was confusing, boring, unconvincing, and just not very interesting. I never did feel any interest in the narrator, or anyone else, for that matter. Thank goodness that Irving improved with practice!
I don't really know what to say about this book. It was well-written, but just so strange, especially at the end. The beginning was interesting, where the two main characters take a motorcycle trip through the Austrian countryside. The middle part, the diaries, were interesting but a bit stranger. Then the last part was just kind of crazy.
Leider ein sehr enttäuschender Irving. Die Handlung selbst kann sehr kurz zusammengefasst werden und hatte für mich sehr wenig Reiz. Hinzu kommt, dass ich alle Charaktere als schwach ausgearbeitet empfand, einen noch dazu sogar als extrem nervig. Hoffentlich ist mein nächstes Buch von Irving nicht so enttäuschend.
I read most of Irving’s work and I’m a huge fan but this one was a real struggle getting through. But I finished it which must be an accomplishment in itself. But I’m glad I did because the beginning and the end was the best part.
