https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/338580.Tarzan_the_Untamed
This story takes place during the German Invasion of Africa in WWI, so we actually get to see Tarzan picking up a gun and shooting people, which was quite a change of pace.
Tarzan is a bit more violent in this one, as the Germans have burned his home, killed and crucified one of his friends, and also "murdered his wife." Slightly darker than most Tarzan stories, even though most of them aren't exactly lighthearted.Overall if you are a Tarzan fan, pick this one up.
Pretty much everything you'd want out of a Tarzan novel.
I guess this book is a collection of short stories, like jungle tales of Tarzan.
I need to go through it again in the short stories because some of this book was great and other bits of it just dragged on and on.Some of ERB's worst dialogue I've ever read.
Tarzan had no stake in her whatsoever.
To make her the lynch pin and to have Tarzan's only excuse for not killing be because she's a woman got old very quickly.I'll continue with the Tarzan books.
I've read nine so far and this is the closest to a stinker I've found.
But in this book, written after WWI (1919), but taking a point at the start of the war as its focus -- at the beginning of the book, Tarzan, AKA Lord Greystoke, has just learned that hostilities between Britain and Germany now exist -- the book presents the Germans as harshly as the propaganda against Germany published during the war, when Germans, all Germans, were presented as Huns who observed no rules of civilized behavior and who deserved no quarter.
With this book, Burroughs pretty much killed off the German market, and he still had over 20 Tarzan titles to go.
Kirjaa ei voi moittia tapahtumien puutteesta. Tarzan käy yhden miehen sotaa saksalaisia vastaan, löytää oudon, kätketyn kaupungin ja pelastaa yhtä lentäjä/vakoilijapariskuntaa pulasta jos toisestakin. Viidakossa on viidakon lait, syö tai tule syödyksi. Ihan viihdyttävä kirja.
Set during WW!, Tarzan believes that German soldiers killed his wife, so he basically decides to go after every German soldier stationed in Africa.That's just how tough he is.Lots of good fights, a death trap involving a lion and hardly a hint of political correctness.
Tarzan is away from his plantation home in British East Africa, and just when he learns that Britain is now at war with Germany in what would someday be called “The Great War”, his home is destroyed by invading German troops.
He did reverse his stance in later years, but it was a case of too little too late.I quite enjoyed this book in the series.
The later Tarzan tales do get some flak for becoming repetitive, especially when they concern stories of lost cities, but this novel is generally regarded as the best of those.
I just read (really re-read) Tarzan the Untamed for the hell of it last night -- bored and needed a book -- so I might as well drop a quickie review here.As Tarzan stories go, it is pretty plebian -- formulaic and dated (a lot of ERBs not too carefully hidden racism and his distorted view of Africa come through, and since this one is on Tarzan's participation in World War I the Germans are pretty bitterly portrayed as well.There's a bit of his carefully circumscribed sexuality in it -- Tarzan cannot whack a woman, even when she is (in his mind) a German spy and indirectly responsible for Jane's murder (don't worry, OF COURSE she didn't REALLY get killed).
As WWI breaks out, the Germans make a beeline for the absent Lord Greystoke's farm in Central Africa where they commit terrible atrocities.
Tarzan had little inclination to torture - none, in fact, but this case was unique in his experience."His vengeance wreaked, Tarzan heads across the continent to return to his parents' shack near the beach where he was born, however his progress is continually delayed by a chivalric compulsion to repeatedly rescue a beautiful woman he believes to be a hated German spy, because she is female and white.
Very good book.
Jane has definitely impacted on Tarzan, his new compassion totally came from her.
When I thought she was dead I told my mom and she said that she didn't think that she was.
I mean, why would Burroughs kill Jane off in the 7th book?
The rest of books wouldn't be any good without her there for Tarzan.
But then at the end when Tarzan finds the papers that said she was still alive I was so very happy and ready to start the next book!
6 books down, 19 to go!
This series continues for far too long. It is more of the same in each subsequent book. I felt this book often repeated itself. I also don't understand why there is no mention of Tarzan's son after the book about him. It almost reinforces that Burroughs is writing for the sake of writing and not for telling a complete story. The transitions between different character's story lines was also difficult to follow.
I have read all 24 of the Tarzan books. Read dates are from the mid 1970s through 1982. I thoroughly enjoyed all of the Tarzan books. They made a great escape from high school and college. I still have all 24 books and they are at the top of my book shelf. I thought it was pretty neat to find the actual covers listed on Goodreads and there are no barcodes on the books, plus the cover price ranged from $1.50-1.95 for each book.
Not a bad book and certainly typical of Burroughs. I did not understand how John/Tarzan and Jack/Korak were separated and then we never hear from Jack/Korak again in this book. Odd. I wish ERB would have had a better idea of what to do with Jane.
was very good but long 600 + pages and only read it at night b4 i fall alseep and on afternoons at work so toook a while, but he keeps with his interesting writing style and you have to keep clicking to see what happens!!!
Thank heavens Edgar kept writing Tarzan tales...I'm addicted!!!
I liked this one a lot. Tarzan's vengeance.
Libravox
One thing about Tarzan, get on his bad side and not only will he kill his enemy, but he has creative and cruel ways in doing so.Once Tarzan finishes his revenge and opts to head back to West Africa, he comes across a cannibal tribe who have kidnapped a woman who Tarzan believes is a German spy.
Regardless, Tarzan, the pilot and spy are in a bind once again and must figure out how to not only escape the city, but travel back across the desert and survive.Each part of the adventure is entertaining, but the overall book seems to be written as three separate novellas then mashed together.

This sets Tarzan on a quest for revenge -- not just on those who committed this foul deed, but on all Germans everywhere.
This section of the story takes up roughly the first third of the book, and I suppose it's not really a spoiler to note that Tarzan doesn't manage to pull off that genocidal plan.
The next section of the book follows Tarzan as he pursues a beautiful German spy, Bertha Kircher, captured by a savage tribe of cannibals.
The closing moments of the book set up Tarzan the Terrible.
Set in British East Africa in 1914 during WWI, the story has a German led raiding party burning Tarzan's plantation and slaughtering the inhabitants during his absence.
Set over a hundred years ago, and written contemporaneously, the reader better understands the attitude of Tarzan towards all Germans.
While John Clayton, Lord Greystoke (Tarzan) is away from his plantation home in British East Africa, it is destroyed by invading German troops from Tanganyika.
After avenging himself on the leaders of the invaders, Tarzan encounters a beautiful German spy and winds up having to rescue her and a British flyer after his plane crashes near a civilization of maniacs.
This story had some very interesting elements and fine descriptive moments such as his trip across the desert and befriending Numa.
I am not sure what the point of that visit was, though old woman story seemed interesting for a bit I couldn't follow who was good, bad, escaping, helping to escape, killed in action or just in the way.
Finally came together when Bertha finally decides Smith-Oldwick isn't that bad a chap after all and Tarzan finds out she is English after all (really should have worked that one out somewhere along the way).
WW1 has just begun and a horrible tragedy strips Tarzan of his veneer of civilization and sends him on a mission of revenge against the German army.
He ends up having many adventures involving a captured lion, a British/German spy and Parrot Kings.Though most of the story was great, the conversation between the Lieutenant and Bertha after the crash was a little too corny and sickly sweet.Footnote: 1) Neither my husband nor I had realized that the WW1 African campaigns had extended so far south and east in African.
I love learning new stuff while reading.
শুরু হয়ে গেছে বিশবযুদধ। যুদধ চলছে বৃটেন আর জারমানির মাঝে। একদল জারমান পুরিয়ে মারল টারজান এর সতরীকে। এরই মাঝে লেফটেনযানট হযারলড পারসি সমিথ ওলডউইক এবং জারমান গুপতচর বারথা কিরচার এর সাথে পরিচয় হয় টারজান এর। বিপদে পরল তাঁরা দুইজন। উদধারে গেল টারজান, তারপর.....
শুরু হয়ে গেছে বিশ্বযুদ্ধ। যুদ্ধ চলছে বৃটেন আর জার্মানির মাঝে। একদল জার্মান পুরিয়ে মারল টারজান এর স্ত্রীকে। এরই মাঝে লেফটেন্যান্ট হ্যারল্ড পার্সি স্মিথ ওল্ডউইক এবং জার্মান গুপ্তচর বার্থা কিরচার এর সাথে পরিচয় হয় টারজান এর। বিপদে পরল তাঁরা দুইজন। উদ্ধারে গেল টারজান, তারপর.....
World War I has broken out and German troops have attacked Lord Greystoke's (aka Tarzan's) landholdings and massacred his Waziri. And he finds a charred female body who he believes is Jane. And he is off to avenge her! And the story takes off from there.
Lei la colección completa siendo un adolescente y sigo pensando que toda la serie es una de las mejores lecturas que un joven puede leer.
Another good one in the Tarzan series.
This one was really good and really horrible at the same time.
Tarzan thought Jane was dead!
The book itself was really good, better than Son of Tarzan and Tarzan and the Jewels of Opar.
It was set about the time World War I started, and touched some on the part of the war that took place in Africa.
Tarzan developed a hatred for all Germans, which was kind of awkward, since I am mostly German, but this hatred calmed down when he found out at the end of the book that Jane hadn't really been killed by German soldiers.
A fast moving adventure with Tarzan getting involved with the first world war in Africa. When the Germans raid his property and kill Jane, Tarzan seeks out a terrible revenge on the German lines with the help of a savage lion. During this adventure he meets a German Spy called Bertha Kircher lost in the jungle, but he can't bring himself to abandon her to her fate, so rescues her from a tribe of cannibals and later from a lost city populated by mad Xuujans.A cracking adventure...
The tendency for Burroughs to get recycle plots is plainly evident here. On the whole it was an adequate Tarzan book, but there are really no surprises in this book; only clichés.
Three quotations:(The beautiful elementalism of tarzan)The ape-man felt a sense of deep admiration for this nameless adventurer of a bygone day.
Civilization meant to Tarzan of the Apes a curtailment of freedom in all its aspects—freedom of action, freedom of thought, freedom of love, freedom of hate.(the animals of tarzan)Here and there were cross trails and others which joined the main avenue, and always upon each of them were the tracks and scent of the great cats, of Numa, the lion, and Sheeta, the panther.
