https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89545.Socks
Read at your own peril.My boss, who just got a little tabby kitten for her 6 year old, was looking for books for her to read this summer.
So of course, I think immediately of Socks and the summer I was six years old and got my own tabby kitten and read "Socks" sometime immediately after that.
or at least sparked my reading of books.
Get your kid a tabby kitten (Tabbies are the best- I'm 35 and on my 5th and 6th Tabby cats- I promise you will not be disappointed with it.)2.
Get your kid this book.3.
We have a beloved calico who had been Princess of Everything to that point and I'm sure she would give Socks' story five purrrs and empathize with him wholeheartedly (though thank goodness we did not have to go to any extremes with her like they did with Socks).
I've never been a Cleary fan but I really liked this book and felt she did a marvelous job getting inside the head and heart of the "older sibling" (be that a fur-baby or human child) as well as these of the new parents who loved them both.
OMGosh. I laughed so hard. Beverly Cleary is surely a cat person, because she has totally pegged the way a cat acts and thinks. Poor Socks has a terrible time when his family brings a baby named Charles William home to live with them. His antics trying to regain their affection are adorable. Cleary's spare, understated prose lend to the appeal for kids, and although it was first released in 1973, any cat lover today will howl with laughter. If you don't enjoy this book, then you're probably a dog person.
I adored this when I was young (even though I was a bit older than the target audience when it was released) and was delighted to find that I still do. So much wisdom, insight, adventure, and humor packed into such a very short book. Perfect for a family read-aloud for all ages. Even minor characters are full-on individuals.And since it's a cat displaced by the baby, it's 'metaphorical' and you can apply it as bibliotherapy to your first-born without being dismissed as teachy-preachy.
I think at this point, I will encourage our youngest to read them on her own, since many of them are still age-appropriate for her.
She brought this book out from our bookshelves and read it for her independent reading for school and I read it after she did.
It's an entertaining story about the cat of a household and the turmoil that disturbs his happy life when a baby joins the family.
The story is quite dated and I'm not sure this book has the timelessness that others have, but it's still an entertaining read.
Our youngest also brought home Ribsy from her school, so we'll likely read this one next.
Socks is a white-footed kitten taken in to a perfect home: he always has a lap, and is generally spoiled... until the day the baby arrives. Now his position in the household is threatened by the new pet. It's a wonderful story about the impact of a baby from the cat's perspective - dated by a couple of passing references, but not too obviously for children - and the adaptations made. A good reminder for any new parents with pets, as well as for encouraging empathy in children!
Sometimes you need a sweet little children's book to cleanse the palate. Beverly Cleary is genius. I forgot how much I adore her. This book is a prime example of why.
As it turns out, I think this book would be a good read not only for elementary school-aged kids, but also for first-time expectant parents, especially those with pets, and also parents who are expecting their second child (to gently remind them not to inadvertently neglect the first-born).Socks is a cat who was adopted by a lovely couple.
As the first-time parents fussed over their precious Charles William - with a certain amount of comical cluelessness that I recall from my own first days as a new parent!
The good news is, there is a happy ending.
Purrfect! I thought my 6-year-old might read this on his own, after he requested a book about a cat, but I ended up reading it to him and his 8-year-old brother. Socks reminded us of our grey tabby, Pete.
It was good, but too sad.
This was my ME book when I was a kid. It meant everything to me.
As a bit of serendipity, Socks written one year before I was born found its way into my families' life at just the right moment this year.
As anyone that has lived with a five-year-old and a new born will attest they both demand a good bit of attention.
Socks, a book about a cat, captures this upheaval perfectly in a way that no "big sister" book could.I picked up the book because my daughter is obsessed with cats and thought it would be a good possible read-aloud for bedtime, and it proved to be just that.
This book for young readers is told from the point of view of Socks, a kitten with white feet who becomes the beloved pet of a young married couple, the Brickers.
Though Socks is well cared for, the Brickers soon have another pet on the way and this creature, Charles William, consumes their attention.
Having everything from the cat's point of view, while wonderfully clever, makes the book a little hard to follow and the story a little fragmented.
The cat for whom the book is named was the Bricker’s only pet, pampered, loved and a little spoiled.
One that wailed and smelled funny and stole all the attention that used to be lavished on Socks.Written for ages six to nine (though probably independent only for the upper half), Socks will resonate with any child who’s owned a pet or been part of an expanding family, and it will lend the experiences to children who haven’t.
Socks’ antics are sure to draw lots of smiles.Cleary’s works always includes an overarching theme of family – of love, acceptance and togetherness – and this one’s no exception.
The Bricker’s family simply includes a rambunctious but loveable, four-legged member named Socks.
:)December 7, 2011:When my sister told me that my nephew was overcome with glee after the cat jumped into his crib, I knew I needed to track down an older edition of Socks for both of them.
Cleary writes from the cat's perspective and shows a pretty sweet life with the Brickers, until a BABY comes to stay.
Baby life is a tough transition for everyone, especially Socks, but baby and kitty ticky eventually triumph together in a friendship scene equal to Rick and Louis at the end of Casablanca.I strongly recommend reading an older edition with the original illustrations.
Oh how we love Beverly Cleary at our house. My son (4) belly laughed out loud at some of Charles William's antics and would randomly bring up events from the book in conversation. I'm pretty sure if we ever get a cat, it will be named in honor of this feisty protagonist. As soon as we finished this book, we started the mouse and a motorcycle for the second time. 😄
This was far too cute and funny for anything less than 5 Stars! Socks is an awesome little cat who reminds me so much of my own furball, Merlin. I am so glad I picked this up as part of Lesley's #ReadKidsLit project. Makes me want to dig out all my other Cleary books and take a stroll down memory lane.
It's not only third-graders whose heads Beverly Cleary can get into. She also channels cats. Socks is totally believable and adorable in every particular. He's bewildered by the appearance of a new baby in his family, and how he copes with the changes which ensue is both comical and poignant. The babysitter is priceless! I want to grow up and be the babysitter.
This book is about a cat who gets adopted by a nice couple. Later in the book the cats owners have a child and the cat starts to feel left out. (The cats name is Socks).I would not recommend this book to my friends only because this book is more of younger child book. But I would recommend this book to younger children.
This book is about a cat who gets adopted by a nice couple. Later in the book the cat´s owners have a child and the cat starts to feel left out. (The cats name is Socks).I would not recommend this book to my friends only because this book is more of younger child book. But I would recommend this book to younger children.
An amusing tale about a cat who has to share his owners and his home with the new pet called 'baby'. Cute little view of a baby from the pet perspective.
Loved this story of a cat adjusting to life with a new baby in the house. Using with a parent/child book club, I think the kids will have liked it, too! (Library)
Such a sweet story told from the feline POV.World-building: AMythology: N/ASuspense: BPlot-Twists: B+Girl Power: N/AGuy Hero: N/ALove Interests: N/AFeels: A+++++Title Logic: AFor you clean-readers: this one does NOT have mature content.
I enjoyed reading from the cat's perspective, which was somehow still easily relatable.
I never finished it, and probably didn't bother with my book report, either.But tonight, I decided to read it again on Libby while the flu keeps me awake.
The various little perspectives were charming.
These little forays made me think a bit more about my own cat's peculiarities and preferences, too, and I'll continue to make sure he stays a happy, curious, and attention-loving little guy.It might be intimidating to some young readers under certain circumstances, but I'd say it has potential to be enjoyable at any age.
As a child, I read this book so many times. It is a personal favorite.
The One School One Book read for this year. While my second graders loved it, I found it to be so-so. I definitely love many of her other titles over this one.
Enjoyed reading this book about a car and the challenges he faces especially after his owners bring a new baby home. My 5 year old loved it and giggles at the baby antics. Will read more by this author to the kid.
We loved this book in our grade 3 literature circle. The students and I loved the story and the characters. Socks is quite the character and we enjoyed following his story.
I felt like Socks was just a cat version of Ramona. They both just want to be loved and are misunderstood.
I have read Socks so many times.
So right now, I will give a brief review.The story starts out where a little girl and a boy are trying to sell their kittens.
The kittens ARE selling, which makes the girl scared.
She has a special kitten named Socks who she loves the most.
No matter what her pleads or cries, a couple decides to adopt Socks, and nothing could stop them.
As Socks is living with the couple, he learns the privliges and necessities of the house.
As Socks just starts to get used to the home, something is happening.
For someone who didn't read Beverly Cleary as a child, I sure have read a lot of her stuff (with my kids) as an adult, and it always leaves me wondering, "Why didn't I read more of her books as a kid?" She's a good writer, entertaining, and very good at capturing the essence of a situation or character.
In Socks, she does a wonderful job of giving us the perspective of a cat and, towards the end, a baby.
Neil Patrick Harris is the voice to many of Cleary's books on tape (Henry & Ribsy books) and he does a great job.
