https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/400329.Linda_Goodman_s_Sun_Signs
At the end of the day, I always end up saying "kaya pala ganyan siya dahil ganito ang sign niya." This book is not made to create prejudice but to help understand the oddness of other people.
You will also understand why people born under the sign of Gemini have two or multiple personality that sometimes lead you to confusion.
We will also realize our desire to find out the mistery of Scoprion, the enthusiasm of people born under the sign of Aries and the beauty and judgement of Libran.Those are just few things to acquire in reading this book.
So clever that you feel u r every sun sign from aries to piesces.
But still u look up for your DoB many times and check your sun sign again and again.
It is written so cleverly you force yourself to believe the qualities of your so called sin sign (pun intended).
The qualities attributed to different planets is based on mythology, arbitrary and imaginary.
The signs also named after the shape of a particular constellation which they represent.
And then she impose the quality of that particular shape on that sign people.
Like Leo or lions have qualities of lions.
I take astrology seriously.
I'm sure Linda Goodman takes astrology seriously.
But you CANNOT TAKE LINDA GOODMAN SERIOUSLY.
This book was written in 1968, and I swear it has NOT BEEN REVISED since then.
What does this mean?
First off, it means you get the benefit of all of Linda's 1968-era trippy-dippy moonchild flights of fancy.
Second, girl will totally tell you that your Capricorn man might not like it if you want to, say, HAVE A JOB.
I swear by this book. I've read all the signs and they describe people's personalities so perfectly. Plus it was published in the 60's and is super old fashioned about gender roles. It's pretty hilarious. And to top it all off, there are constant references to Alice in Wonderland. How could it get any better?
I was practically weened on this book.
The copy I have is a hardback from the 60s.
It was my grandmother's, mom's, and now mine.
I have awesome memories of climbing onto mom's bed and reading astrology books with her.
We'd read aloud to each other - different chapters for different parts of our charts.
As I got older and had crushes, she'd ask me about this Pisces or that Gemini I had a thing for and we'd READ ALL THE COMBOS.
This book is to me what mom's apple pie is like for non-hippie-inclined families.
A fun book to read. I don't believe in astrology, but I must say that Linda has got it correct regarding the personality of myself (a Leo), my wife (a Taurean) and my son (a Gemini). I only did not like the part where she said Leos are boastful - we are not! We are just honest in pointing out our virtues.
That is kind of a nostalgic tip of the hat four stars there, because I appreciate Linda's Aries nature and the way she threw open the doors for a generation of astrologers and people in search of a bit more insight than just that newspaper column promising a tall dark stranger on Tuesday.
Aries Linda had trouble with the Libra people and didn't quite capture us in all our glory.It's a fun read, though, and a nice introduction to the art.
Reading the Aquarius chapter was like reading erotica.Linda Goodman has a good understanding of the main foundation of a person's chart: the sun sign.
She makes it a point to remind the reader how the other signs in our charts can skew our "token" sun sign personality.
She points out very specific and accurate details that might give a reader some insight about themselves.
However she also provides the reader with an easy understanding of the complicated aspects of other signs.I found this emotionally satisfying in terms of my own chapters.
In terms of the chapters of others, I found it reassuring.
Very true for us scorpions. Must read.
Lovely! Accurate! Interesting even if you do not believe in them. Is an all time favourite. My dad was an astrologer and he got us to read this, hoping to get us hooked to this science (I call it science, I have seen it work... Every time). It sure got me hooked!
I was really intrested to learn about different sun signs because sun signs are what give most of us our characteristics and moods.
So now I know more then just my birth date and sign, i know my moon moods, element, and characteristics (or how people see me) I was so exited to learn about asrology and now I want to know even more about it, so this book opened my eyes into a hobby that I would have never guessed i would be the least bit intrested in!
*sigh* I can't find my edition on here anywhere. It's the hard cover published in 1968. I highly recommend this book to anyone wanting to know what it means to be born during a specific time of the year. It read me like a book! lol.
dated but entertaining
I first went, a little bit, through her Love Signs book before taking the 'Sun signs' and buying it.
I didn't care if Astrology is true when I picked up the Love signs book.
And after six months approximately, I remembered that I read something about Leo and Pisces relationship being exactly the way it is described in that book.
I took the book and read the same three paragraphs again.
Well, I just took the Sun signs book (I know it came earlier, and that it is more basic than the Love signs), and bought it.
This book describes a lot regarding various sun signs in a very interesting way even if you do not want to believe it sometimes.
It becomes very interesting when a person reads it and matches his or her qualities.
Some of the points that I found interesting were like :-a Capricorn child is very serious in his childhood and when his age grows, he becomes more childish.
-Piscean have qualities of all the sun signs.
-Taurus and Cancerian always want to be liked by people.
There may be exceptions and different opinions but when I read and compared with the people, I found many of these qualities matching correctly.
My book is dog eared and falling apart - I've read it that many times.
Its one of those astrology books that don't need you to fit yourself into the said characteristics.
Understanding that people are different and great in different ways.Linda Goodman's writing style is easy to read and holds your interest.
When you see the pages, full of long paragraphs, its easy to close the book because it looks boring.
Start reading and you'll know why this book has been sought after so many years.
:)Best of all, the characteristics of your sign DON'T have to fit you like a fingerprint.
While I have always liked Goodman's style, her books are rather dated (keeping in mind that they were written decades ago and continually republished): a good writing style and an assumption that astrology as a determinant of personality does not age, but the interpretation does as they are often through a cultural filter.
This is not to say I do not enjoy her books, as I often reread sections, and even quote/paraphrase her once in a while ("Aries are stubborn enough to touch a hot stove twice, but not the same stove...
Remember that." I find it is a good explanation).
However, you will occasionally see the colour of dated perceptions.
wow! great imaginative & enthralling read! My favorite part(s) of this book? "How to identify this sign" You say you are in love with a Sagitarrius boss? Ayue carumba!! If you are a novice, then I might recommend reading Linda Goodman's Sun Signs first.....pick out your favorite friend(s) birth signs & read about them! OR....if you have a difficult boss, and can find out his or her birthday, then read about that sign "as a boss." Perhaps my age is showing, but good clean fun (plus a little help from the stars!)
The book that started it all! An extremely fun and enjoyable recounting of the sun signs and their quirks. She has a great flair for narration, and when copied by astrologers today, comes across as stiff and unnatural.A great book to read again and again. I was nodding and laughing at myself when the Sagittarius section came on..
This is the best Astrology book ever written. Not because it is any less bullshit than any other, but so elegant, fun to read, and amazingly well crafted. A true gem. The descriptions are delightful of personalities that we all know. And I have to admit, my Sun Sign description, The Capricorn Woman, describes me perfectly, especially the part about how beautiful all Capricorn women are. .
Ok so I only read my sign and those of the boys I was in love with at the time. But I read them multiple times! I say it counts.
When I was in high school I thought this book was based on fact.
Best Book Ever. I just love this book. This book inspired me to learn astrology. I was 15 then. And now i am quite an expert in astrology.
The 1-5 Star Review is the total of what I have to say about this book, specifically.Caveat: This review is historical/archival in nature.
Additionally, I worked for a company in this field, 2015-2016, and had to read an ocean of this stuff to do my job.Like televangelists, and snake-oil salesman, these publishers prey on the vulnerable.
To quote Holden from Chasing Amy, "Over- or underweight [people] who don't get laid - they're our bread and butter."Though a copypasta of it, these books never tell you about hermeticism.
Having worked in this field, including sales of these exact books, I can tell you...
*sighz* a half wit can figure out a book about sunsigns is not specific down to location, time, and exact person..its silly to even assume that.I have always been Taking astrology with a pinch of salt, since logic states it has to be generic, amd vague so it would suit most people.
HOW EVER this woman is skilled, and in this book you can read about the different aspects of each sign..
But still vague enough to be able to adress a larger amount of people.I tested reading every sunsign and i must admit, not a single one of the others came even close.might be that people born in each sign has similar traits.
A very easy-to-read compilation of the history and meaning of astrological signs that are more permanent in nature as compared to the dribble in the daily newspaper. Goodman does not hold back on her biases of the more potent signs. Of course, her own sign, Aries, is the one she places on a pedestal, so be wary of the author's opinions.
Curiosity for the characteristics of Scorpio led me to this book. I have always thought that astrology, the when and where of how we were born, pretty much has an influence in our personalities. After reading this book I understood better my behavior. I think the content is very certain, if you truly read it with an open mind.
I used to think this was the best, most accurate astrology book there was. This time around I feel that I have seen better. I do like how it has descriptions for Boss, child, spouse, etc. Can someone recommend their favorite?
Lots of good information in this book! The writing is clever and whimsical, making the deluge of information more palatable. I highlighted the mess out of it and found lots of connections between certain Sun signs and people I know. I'll definitely come back to this book later for reference. :)
I have some questionable faith in Linda Goodman's work.I am extremely fond of her style of writing, which adds a tad bit more mystery into an already mysterious topic of Zodian signs.I feel she wrote about me when she wrote about the Pisces woman.
