https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26228034-the-obelisk-gate
As most of you know I only like doing re-reads on audio because I miss too much on first time reads but it's all good.
Once again, even though I didn't understand all that was going on (same thing happened when I read the first book by paperback) some of the time I still loved it.
So and so wants to set the Earth straight by getting the moon back.
I thought they wanted Essun to grab the moon on the way back around but then Nassun was talking about doing it at the end.
Just read the books 😄 I love them so far.
I thought I wasn't going to like this one as much as the first book. The pace was a bit slow... but the ending was great and I'm looking forward to the third one!
I'm not merely or only shaken to my core by the amazing scenes of earth alteration, depth of histories, or revealed enormity of what is really going on, here; actually, I'm left in awe by the scope and the careful planning and execution of the Author's Mad Skillz.Essun and Nassun are wonderful characters, of course, and there are times when Nassun almost steals the spotlight for me, but here's the real surprise: I can't believe how awesome Hoa's story is turning out to be, or that of all the Stone Eaters.
It’s not a surprise, I knew right after finishing the first book that the second book won’t be as good, but I just didn’t expect it to be this much.Told only from two main POV and one minor POV, Essun’s POV is where I had tons of problems with.
When some actions did appear in the end, the damage has been done and I can’t bring myself to care anymore towards anything that happens in her story at this point because of how stagnant her character development has been compared to before.The other major problems I had with the book this time lies within Essun’s second person present tense narrative.
1.) The Fifth Season ★★★★★Buddy Read with Petrik ❤I finished this book just after it won its Hugo award for the best novel of 2017.
It shows us the oppression unapologetically, and this oppression doesn’t just live in this SFF book, it’s in our world right now, even if you’re choosing to keep your eyes closed to it.
This book mostly follows Essun, one of the most powerful Orogene in existence, where she is trying to live in a new community in a rather strange location.
Like, this book is heartbreakingly beautiful, and this constant reminder of how it feels to lose a child is something I can’t put into words.
There's something so special about this series.I'm not going to lie, it's a bit complicated. It takes its sweet time revealing bits and pieces of itself to the reader. The magic isn't always intuitive, the characters' motivations aren't always laid out nicely and neatly. But it's always fascinating and keeps me asking questions. It's not a series I would recommend for those of us without patience. It's unique second person point of view is, again, one of the best uses of this perspective I have
If I ever hear someone say "But it's hard for me to include diversity in my novel!" then I will absolutely point them in the direction of this series because the inclusivity is flawless.I really only had two noteworthy issues with this installment:1.
There was a very distinctive aspect of the storytelling that, because of events from the first novel, could not be present in The Obelisk Gate.This aspect is one of the reasons I adore The Fifth Season so much, and while Jemisin works incredibly well with where she took her story, it's difficult not to make comparisons.2.
▐ WINNER OF THE HUGO AWARDS 2017 for best novel▐4.5 stars. I see you. "I can't stand Fantasy novels! They're all the same! There are too many characters! It's predictable! Unrealistic! Not diverse!" ← Trust me, I hear you. The Obelisk Gate is different, though, and here's why you should give it a chance : You're very tired of reading the same uninspired writing over and over again? Fear no more! N.K. Jemisin's writing is nothing short of fantastic, with perhaps the best second Person POV I've ev
N.K. Jemisin's writing is nothing short of fantastic, with perhaps the best second Person POV I've ever read.
You can't stand the sight of these same white, cis, abled, male main characters that Fantasy books force down our throat 99% of the time.
I've already praised it in The Fifth Season, but it's rare enough to repeat it endlessly : N.K. Jemisin's world is SO diverse, I love it.
You've read 30% of The Fantasy Book and again, you already know how the fucking book will end because hey!
The Obelisk Gate brings well-rounded secondary characters to life and pictures multi-layered MC I LOVED.
“The way of the world isn’t the strong devouring the weak, but the weak deceiving and poisoning and whispering in the ears of the strong until they become weak, too.”  So... that was good. That was really, really good.I think… I talked about what makes this series special thematically a lot in my review for The Fifth Season. But I genuinely think the core of this series, the thing that makes it so impactful, is how it talks about oppression. I was really looking at orogeny in book one as a met
In this book, we get povs from three characters; Essun, Nassun, and Schaffa.
Her character development is so great; I love how she’s forced to learn to be manipulative, to play the emotions of her father and so many others.➽Schaffa - a villain from the first book who is weirdly sympathetic here.
God, I like… despised this character in book one and now I’m out here being kind of emo, but still hating him, and it’s really great.
There’s Tonkee, a trans lesbian icon and one of the funniest and most endearing characters in this book.
*** 4.44 ***I did not wait for a buddy read, because after finishing the first book I HAD TO KNOW!!! I engulfed this one in a day and have to say, despite loving the heck out of it, my thirst to KNOW is not quenched... I need the third book right now, but alas, I will have to wait like a good and patient reader and preorder it, so I can have it as soon as it comes out, if not possible to get it earlier.  "..."Life cannot exist without the Earth.Yet there is a not-unsubstantiated chance that life
I need the third book right now, but alas, I will have to wait like a good and patient reader and preorder it, so I can have it as soon as it comes out, if not possible to get it earlier.
You feel the hopes, and dreams, and despair, even at times understand the prejudices, because you wonder if you wouldn't be one of those who in the face of extermination, might put their life and their fears above those of others, just as desperate as you.
The first book in this series, The Fifth Season, was just so exciting.
But whereas The Fifth Season was probably 70% backstory, I should really have known this installment would focus more on the present.The first half of the book was (comparatively) dull as mud.
Nothing of much interest happens to Essun, she appeared stagnant and incapable.
He had quickly become the most intriguing character, as my love for Essun kind of waned.I'm still going to read the final installment of this trilogy, but I hope the pacing improves in the next one.
We backtrack in time a bit to follow the journey Essun's daughter Nassun took with her father, Jija, and then the rest of the book runs in a parallel timeline following Essun in Castrima and Nassun further South in Jekity.Jemisin has a wonderful storyteller's voice, which she uses to great effect here.
The pain inflicted on Essun by her time with the Fulcrum continues to reverberate down through to Nassun, as Nassun begins at last to understand a little bit about how her mother became the person she is.
The spectacular cataclysm that ushered in a Season of Death and Destruction, the (still) hidden forces that govern plate tectonics and produce recurrent armaggedons, the relationship between the several nodes of power that can be controlled by humans ( a unified theory of magic that links geology with subatomic particles and telepathy?) become under the pen of Jemisin more like background noise to the family drama centered around the orogene Essun, she of the different names and evolving POV from the first book.
Congratulations to N.K. Jemisin for winning the Hugo Award for this book as well as last year for The Fifth SeasonThis series is a little different from many that I’ve read recently.
Then there is also the interesting wildlife changes that include some animals hibernating while others have different deadly instinctual habits during a season.One of the most interesting things for me in this book was getting a little more insight into the Guardians and what makes them what they are.
By now you've gotten over that devilishly clever writing devise that Ms Jemisin wielded in book one and, like me, you're eager to continue the journey with Essun, unwavering in your desire to uncover the secrets of this strange but fascinating world. And you're not disappointed.This is writing at par with the Sandersons, Bardugos et al. NK is a master storyteller!
I absolutely love its colours and beautiful stone design so evocative of past civilisations' architecture.The non-linear plot of two past timelines and a present one converged towards the end of the first book, and The Obelisk Gate takes the story forward almost immediately with the second person present POV of Essun.
There are two new third-person POVs. One is a character from the first book, Schaffa, and another which was only mentioned but not seen, Nassun.
You seem strong, healthy, but inside you feel like he looks; nothing but brittle stone and scars, prone to cracking if you bend too much.
If anything I was able to enjoy it more so because the second person present tense was familiar this time around and not distracting.
Some of the descriptions of changing eras, landscapes, seas, land masses and the rest reminded me of Erikson in their epic and grand depictions.
Another thing that ticks a box for me in making a series epic is NKJ makes you feel the magic.
What they both have the knack of doing is starting out with a vivid description and quickly expanding that into a scene.
The scene quickly becomes tension, often from where you didn't suspect it, and then that tension becomes another description.
Instead, he decides to take her away to a place where he heard Orogeny could be “fixed”, and Nassun has no choice but to follow, torn between love and fear of her father.The Obelisk Gate both reads and feels a little different from the first book, emphasizing plot while also expanding upon the world-building.
Jemisin’s portrayal of all the complex feelings involved makes it virtually impossible not to feel completely drawn into these characters’ lives.As I said previously though, I still have to give The Fifth Season a slight edge over The Obelisk Gate, simply because the sequel didn’t quite consume me the way the first book did.
I cannot believe I will have to wait until August to see how it will conclude; I mean I know it'll end in tears (my tears) because there is no way a story this cruel can have the perfect happy ending I want for these great characters.The characters are one of Jemisin's greatest strengths.
I absolutely love the way this at the core highly political story is framed; I am always a sucker for unconventional storytelling and here this adds a wonderful depth to an already brilliantly imagined world.
Perfect. Simply perfect.---Review to follow.
As you can probably tell from the 5 star review: I LOVED this book! I enjoyed Fifth Season, but this book really sealed the deal for me.The characters, the narration, the story, the magic....everything is so unique and new and I cannot get enough! Definitely a breath of fresh air in the fantasy genre. If you're looking for a fantasy story that is new and refreshing, features a diverse cast of characters then this is most certainly the book for you.I cannot wait for The Stone Sky! Is it August yet?
The first of this series was so good that it's hard to rate this book fairly.
I would have loved it no matter, as an extension of the wonderful world and characters of the first, but it's hard task to be as amazing as the first book.
It's not as earth-shattering (so punny), but it lived up to my expectations, continuing to raise questions and mysteries throughout (and answering a few, too).
I continue to be amazed at the depth of the world Jemisin has created and the sheer wonderfulness of her geo-fiction.
I know this will be a favourite series of mine for a very long time indeed.
Basically none of the characters are particularly nice or good and the action doesn't ever really ramp up in this book at all, and yet I am obsessed with this trilogy.
It takes a look at loving someone you should hate, and hating someone you should love, which I find very interesting.I fully expect that some people might be bored by this book, but I personally wasn't at any point.
Granted - I listened to this audiobook during a long solo road trip, so that might have something to do with my personal attention span in regards to this book LOL!
"If being less than himself means being less than the monster that he was, he cannot regret it." I have read your reviews. I understand those who said this book suffers from a 'second book' syndrome; and I understand you who said you don't understand how can anyone say this book suffers from a 'second book' syndrome. I tend to agree with: all of you. How? Well, it's not me who said either of those two things. (shut up, it's my logic :))Seriously though, I agree. There is a problem with info-dum
How deeply history of this world goes; how complex society is; how strange and how nothing even remotely similar I had seen in 85 other fantasy books I have read only this year alone comes to magic of this world.
Proximate cause: volcanic eruption caused a three-year occlusion.Season of Yellow Seas: Approximately 9200 Before Imperial.
Proximate cause: volcanic eruption caused atmospheric occlusion for ten years, exacerbated by widespread mercury contamination throughout the eastern half of the Stillness.Wandering Season: Approximately 800 Before Imperial.
Her characters are cool and genuine and unabashedly imperfect.
The aforementioned edgy writing style that Jemisin employs works for her and I like it most of the time but after a whilebut...(but)itsometimesends up seemingoh no oh no oh noHOKEY.One of the things I loved about the first book was the unique "magic" system that Jemisin invented.
I liked that orogeny didn't conform to the typical tropes of magic (the ability to do whatever one wants to resolve all conflict in deus ex machina style).
Ranting aside, I love this book.
What I love most of all is the incredible character work.
I've been reading all 5 and 4 stars review for past 2 hours to convince myself that it is good but nothing is changing this simple yet powerful fact:The Obelisk Gate was just so fucking boring, at places ve ve ve very bland, filled with info-dumps and overall incomparable to the Glory that was The Fifth Season.
I know (and I'm hoping that I'm right) that we will see more of Alabaster in The Stone Sky but he just played as a filler character in this book to provide information to Essun.However, since it's N.K Jemisin, there were still some gems in the storyvthat made this book stood out against many other fantasy books.
The Obelisk Gate continues smoothly from where we left The Fifth Season except that we now begin to follow what is happening to Nassun.
Many other characters meet quite shocking ends.This is the middle book in the trilogy and as such is building events towards some presumably stupendous conclusion.
Both Nassun and Essun developed their skills and strengths ready for what is to come.Plus I just love the idea of trying to catch the moon.
On the strength of that I just purchased book #3 - I cannot wait to see what happens next.
I'm happy to say that The Obelisk Gate moves the narrative forward, introduces new POVs, continues to be high unique, and still has important things to talk about.
Even if it doesn't reach the highs of The Fifth Season or have its twisty narrative tricks, The Obelisk Gate does a terrific job bridging the gap between the beginning and end of Jemisin's story.
The series is still really good, I'm really excited to read the last book, and Jemisin's craft continues to improve from The Hundred Thousand Kingdoms series.
As often happens with second books, there's a bit of a 'sophomore slump.' The first book is more tightly plotted, featuring strategically timed revelations; this is more of a straightforward "what happened next," as the reader follows the further adventures of Essun and her estranged daughter, Nassun.Essun is where we left her at the end of 'The Fifth Season,' in the (still amazing and cool) geode habitat, where a group of survivors how to weather the impending apocalyptic 'season.' The community faces stresses and strife from within and without, as deep-seated prejudices against those with the geologic powers known as orogeny are wrestled with; and rapacious invaders strive to steal their resources.
I like how it pivoted from straight fantasy toward post-apocalyptic science fiction. Cleverly inventive.
Why she spent so much time in Castrima doing useless things, getting involved in the comm politics, and seemed easily letting Nassun go?
All of which are the good examples of a very tricky sub-genre, i.e. post-apocalyptic SF (not fantasy, because that one is even more tricky!).And the comm life!
The way the system of orogeny got explained - also expertly intertwined to Nassun's chapters- is a pleasure to read.
I can not wait to get more orogeny in The Stone Sky.The Broken Earth trilogy - from the two books I read so far - is about people's life and survival.
