https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/270521.The_Russia_House
Its message is important for all mankind." British publisher Scott Blair, otherwise known as Barley, has been entrusted with this piece of ‘literature’ which has been passed to him from a Russian physicist through the hands of the beautiful and self-sacrificing Katya.
The time is mid- to late 1980s during a significant period of reform nearing the end of the Cold War. The manuscript, however, manages to get into the hands of the Russia House, a branch of the British intelligence agency, before reaching Barley’s desk.
Barley walked and, as always when he was in Leningrad, he had the sensation of walking through other cities, now Prague, now Vienna, not a bit of Paris or a corner of Regent’s Park.
I think it's instructive to read one of Graham Greene's spy novels back-to-back with one of John le Carre's— because, surprisingly, it's instantly clear that le Carre is the better writer.
One concern I had with this book was that it was written in 1989- after the golden age of the Cold War, which was a time that Le Carre shined as an espionage author.
But that concern was unfounded- if anything, he's better in the age of glasnost, with all its moral vagary and shifting alliances.
I love the anger; the way the novel seems to capture all the threads that le Carré had woven in most all of his cold war novels and noose both sides.
In some ways it reminded me of Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four: with the bureaucracies/grey men of both sides of the Cold War desperate to continue the fight, desperate for an enemy, desperate for perpetual fear for the greater good.
Le Carré's genius is making you absolutely love his sinners and fear his saints, and then making you forget which is which and who is who.
For me this book had a slow start, so it took a bit to get into.
And towards the climax of the story it seemed like it got a bit muddled.What I enjoyed most about this work was that it was set in the world of publishing during Peristrokia.
And the reader got a small insight to what Western publishers had to do to have their books published during the end of the Soviet Era.And yes, the spycraft story line in this story was brilliant once you got into it.
Still, it did not have Le Carre's usual flow.
Le Carre is a strong storyteller nonetheless, achieving vivid atmospheric effects (Moscow, London, an island off the coast of Maine, Leningrad) and driving scenes forward with deft, spirited dialogue.The peculiar satisfaction of the book lies in the main character, Barley, shaking off the chains he's been wrapped in by the British and American intelligence agencies, so that he can set his Russian lover free--from her own doomed Russian lover and the claws of the dying Soviet state.Less satisfying is the appeal Barley exerts over Katya, his Russian co-conspirator.
i just finished it two nights ago, and what a book! thanks, ted, for turning me onto le carre. he is a master of characterization, he has intricate, exciting, and utterly believable plots, and he has the added bonus of actually knowing what the hell he's talking about, having been on the inside of all this himself.even if you don't like spy fiction, there's much to admire here. i can see why he's regarded as a grand master. far and away better than ludlum, whose stuff has become dated in my opinion.
An expatriate British publisher unexpectedly finds himself working for British intelligence to investigate people in Russia.A movie was made based on this book, with Sean Connery, Michelle Pfeiffer, Roy Scheider .
I noted on Facebook before I left for holiday that I have a habit of selecting crap books to read on it, but I always take Le Carre as a standby.
A painfully slow, slight tale of the ending of the Cold War that made me wonder where Le Carre found the motivation to persisit with the novel when he knew where it was going - to an end not with a bang nor a whimper.
It felt like an elongated subplot from one of his better thrillers.
The writing was still good enough to pull me through, but it was, like the flight home, a long haul.
The story concerns a Soviet physicist with information that Soviet nuclear technology is less advanced than the world thinks, who communicates this information through a manuscript that he asks a friend, Katya, to pass on to a British publisher, Scott Blair ("Barley").
Things, as usual, don't go exactly according to plan, and as frequently happens with Le Carre, there is some strident, over-the-top moralizing about the importance of being a decent human being and so on as opposed to following bureaucratic rules and regulations.It's a fun, pleasantly complex story, and the writing is often brilliantly witty, especially in the beginning when Le Carre really gets going in describing and mocking the intelligence folks.
That's not to say it lacks excitement, but at times Le Carré is actively deflating the tension — hinting at what will transpire — as if he (through his proxy, the equivocating legal council to the secret service, with a faint whiff of regret and reluctance) no longer wants to participate in the inflationary hyperbole of the cold war of words, which supported the ever-accelerating arms race.
All that said, this is very recognisable Le Carré, with strong echoes of some of his best work.
It acts as a wonderful, questioning, almost absurd (with its protagonist of a alcoholic, jazz sax-playing, minor publisher) punctuation mark to a long phase of his career, wrestling with the practice of and theory behind the cold war.
An amateur spy - down-at-heel English publisher Barley Blair - is given a few weeks training by the British and then, backed by the USA, he's sent to Moscow to receive documents from a highly placed but anonymous source which will prove the Soviet's nuclear missile capability is based on lies.
The author's dry humour permeates the story but his observations on the hypocrisy of all sides involved in "The Cold War" show that his anger is never far from the surface.As the "experts" plot each move in their bid to recover Soviet secrets, Barley Blair sticks a joyous spanner in the works which will make (most*) readers cheer him on.*(the hawks and doves of the left and right will not agree with this statement)
I haven't read much of Le Carre- but enjoyed what I have so far. This was quite complicated, with lots of characters, and I found myself having to re-read bits to check who people were and what was happening. However, its beautifully written, and even now, so many years after 'glasnost', it offers a fascinating insight into changes in Russia, and the spying industry in general. Overall a rewarding read but not one to skim over.
If you've never ready any le Carre, the Spy Who Came in From the Cold is a great place to start. I also enjoyed Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy. Russia House is good, though my guess is the Cold War fiction is probably suffering a bit in popularity.
I loved this!:O)
It's 1989 or so, and a bookseller is the protagonist. The Russia House is an office of the British foreign intelligence service. LeCarre rocks. Just read it.
Here we are on the cusp of the Cold War ending - glasnost and perestroika have been put in motion - yet among the insiders, the spycraft continues.
Of course, the Cold War was the agar for spy novelists.
Did le Carré get a sick, sinking feeling in his stomach as he watched the Soviet empire crumble?
As a reader, I felt like there wasn't much here to bite into.
But I never felt anything for Barley, and the occasional snippets of sparkly prose weren't enough to prevent the feeling of relief I got when the book ended.
In my reading, this book was all about the challenges, perils and rewards (if any, in this case) of nuclear disarmament.
It's a world-weary view of the subject, though, especially in le Carre's take on experts.
From a conversation between Barley, the British publisher, and Goethe, the Russian scientist: "Experts are addicts.
Did you not read what I wrote?
When the world is destroyed, it will be destroyed not by its madmen but by the sanity of its experts and the superior ignorance of its bureaucrats."This book was written in 1989, but passages like that are sadly resonant in our post-911 age.
This was one of those books I had put off for many years. I finally got to it (probably motivated due to a recent trip to Eastern Europe). le Carre's writing is fabulous; the tension and human innuendos, the patterns of those who are involved with spying versus those who would rather just live and love, and Mr. Barley's place in both as a reluctant hero sets the probably-realistic tone for the glamorous gray life of secret service.
finished this one today...took me some time, things happening, here, there, everywhere...so i did not have time to enjoy the story. don't believe this is one that you can...i could not...pick it up and read some, put it down...come back to it time permitting, this that the other. maybe you can. i can't i did but...ummmm.just not into it. i liked it...i have enjoyed any "spy" stories i've read, fiction or fact. that is all. over and out.
My first brush with le Carré!Gorgeous novel full of tenderness, mixed feelings, cold weather, and secrets. I loved the story and the style a lot. The pacing is tense but driven by conversation, not by action. Part of me picked this up expecting a Clancy or Ludlum style thriller so the emotional depth of this novel caught me by complete surprise.A nice cold weather read.
So this is the BBC adapted radio play. The voice acting is good, but I don't buy the whole romance, great love, sub-plot. Pfeiffer and Connery could sell it, but the voices don't.
As is Le Carré’s wont, he employs a narrator who is, like Christ encouraged the disciples to be, in the world but not quite of the world.
The narrator may be a bona fide member of The Circus, but he is also in some way detached from full conformity to its norms.
The complexity of the “secret” world is not significantly different from the complexity of “ordinary” life, which, I think, is Le Carré’s genius, the thing that lifts his work above being “mere” genre fiction.
Even when not on best form, Le Carre is still superior to the rest. Here, suspicions between services are impervious to the era of glasnost. But they can't control the human element.
Rus Evi John Le Carre’nin sinemaya uyarlanmış onlarca romanından biri. Filmdeki oyuncuların karakterlerinden sıyrılıp romanı okumak açıkçası oldukça zor oluyor. Sean Connery ve Michelle Pfeiffer’ın oynadığı F. Schepisi’nin yönettiği film birçok star oyuncuyu barındıran orta karar bir film olsa da Michelle Pfeiffer’ın Katya olarak performansı çok öne çıkıyor.Roman klasik bir ‘Post-Soğuk Savaş’ sendromunu anlatıyor. Katya adlı çevirmen bir arkadaşına ait bir dosyayı, batıda basılabilmesi için Barl
Schepisi’nin yönettiği film birçok star oyuncuyu barındıran orta karar bir film olsa da Michelle Pfeiffer’ın Katya olarak performansı çok öne çıkıyor.Roman klasik bir 	‘Post-Soğuk Savaş’ sendromunu anlatıyor.
Bundan sonrası gerilimli bir süreç haline gelir çünkü olay artık kişisel olmaktan çıkmış toplumları ve ülkeleri ilgilendiren bir konu haline gelmiştir.Romanda, soğuk savaş sonrası hala devam eden paranoyak olma durumu ve bunun Birleşik Krallık ve Amerika bağlamındaki yansımaları çok başarılı.Barley karakteri çok canlı bir karakter; eski kafalı ama kurnaz, kuralları o kadar da sallamayan ama realist.
Romandaki en gizemli karakter olan Goethe karakteri çok etkileyici.
Goethe herşeyi çözecek olan ve bunun için herşeyini vermeye hazır bir figürdür.
A cute love story encased in an intriguing spy thriller which revolves around the publication of a book revealing Russian state secrets regarding the hazardous arms development in the country !!
At a book fair, a Russian woman named Katya has handed over a manuscript to a British publisher to pass along to the man she intended to deliver it to, and who didn't show up.
Blair, you soon realize, is the unlikely hero of the story, as he's drafted by British intelligence to go to Moscow and contact the physicist -- a chance acquaintance from a prior trip to Russia -- and verify that the info he's passed along is valid.
I had difficulty at first with the main character.
I had difficulty becoming invested in the story until about page 95, mostly because I found the main character not likeable.
The credentials of the author, having once being in British Intelligence himself, lent authenticity and credibility to the tale.
The grasp of the politics of the day and the authentic use of the places and culture plays well to the story.
The book was often hard to follow, probably because there were so many characters on the British Intelligence side, it was difficult to see individual characters as unique due to their number.
A beautiful Russian woman brings a manuscript to a book agent at a Russian book fair to forward to Barley Blair, a UK publisher.
When the agent can't find Barley, he turns the documents over to the British authorities.
They recognize the value of it and find Barley and send him on missions to find the author of the manuscript and to verify that its contents are accurate.This was a really great story.
Barley Blair is a fantastic character.
Nonetheless, I still love how LeCarre's spies are men first, and that is what makes them interesting.
The Russia House is the kind of top notch spy thriller we've come to expect from the great John Le Carré.
Written and set in the years when the end of the Cold War was tantalizingly just within reach yet the foot soldiers remained compelled to set traps upon each other to keep the fragile peace, today The Russia House should be read as a cautionary tale of the paranoia and desperation that accompanied the efforts of nations facing off by threatening a nuclear holocaust.
But for the last twenty five odd years it has remained dormant or relegated to threats posed by so-called rogue state or non-state actors.
Durante todo o romance há um intenso jogo de influências, mentiras e meias verdades.
A informação obtida, a ser correcta, promete abalar as convicções e interesses do ocidente e levar uma autêntica reviravolta nas tensões Ocidente-Oriente.O escolhido para esta missão é Barley Blair, um editor sem qualquer experiência de espionagem que se vê involuntariamente atirado para esta trama.
E assim começa um romance de espionagem enrolado numa história de amor que mostra uma lado muito real deste conflito travado nas sombras, celebrando as experiências individuais face à pressão do colectivo.
