https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1058617.Assignment_Gestapo

Actually 3,5... but somehow 4 is too much.
Another book by Sven Hassel, ex-soldier and member of penal batallion during World War II. Shows the real face of war and German army. The members of penal batallion are brutal, mean, wear rugs and stink. But they're also closest comrades for each other. Page - turner.
Autorul danez Sven Hassel descrie fără pic de milă, dar cu un umor nebun, scene terifiante, având experiența implicării personale în luptele din cel de-al Doilea Război Mondial.Personajele care vor capta rapid simpatia cititorului sunt soldații companiei a 5-a din Regimentul 27 Blindate: Porta, Micuțul, Bătrânul, Legionarul.
Sunt multe scene care îți vor rămâne în minte după ce citești această carte, dar mie mi s-a părut delicioasă cea în care o bătrână a intrat în ghearele poliției secrete hitleriste (GESTAPO) după ce i s-a spovedit unei vecine că Führerul a fost un prost că a început războiul.
In most Eastern Europe countries that were led by communist regimes there was a huge government effort to distort history.
They wanted to have good versus bad polarization in all situations.
And regarding World War II they wanted to make the same segregation, trying to blame all the bad things on the Germans and all the good things on the Russians.
In fact this book, and many others show that there was slightly any difference between the two combatants.
They were equally bad and they created similar atrocities for their people and occupied countries.My copy of this book is in Romanian.
Heide, Sven, Tiny, Porta and Barcelona check out a farmhouse.
Russian girl warns Tiny and The Legionnaire about NKVD plans.
Ohlsen is ordered to hang Russian prisoners.
Porta does some sniping (using infra-red night-sights??) Ohlsen is summoned to see the Lt Col. Story of 49th Infantry Regiment and their (lack of) front line experience.
Porta starts cursing Tiny for being dirty.
Various banter between Heide, Porta, Tiny etc.
Story of Porta and Tiny's attempts at acrobatics.
General taunting of prisoners by Porta and Tiny.
Recruits arrive - including Stahlschmidt and Stever from the prison and the SS trumpeter Kleber.
Descrive il soggiorno ad Amburgo nella caserma del reggimento.
Non si parla del fronte, ma il libro si conclude con il reggimento al completo e pronto a rientrare in battaglia: pretende un successore, il libro, e sarà “Gli sporchi dannati di Cassino”.
Il costrutto psicologico negli ultimi libri di Argberg ( tutti finora quelli descritti ) è piuttosto semplice: egli descrive il regime nazista così come opera e così che fu a tutti gli effetti, un grande meccanismo di sadismo e perversione e crudeltà, messo in moto da Hitler e da suoi seguaci, che procede per inerzia anche quando la guerra è già perduta.
La sua arma di morte preferita è un coltello, o baionetta, al fronte un coltello siberiano.
Cartea reușește să transmită condițiile în care armata germană își desfășura operațiunile, precum și viața de zi cu zi pe timp de război. Succesul tuturor cărților lui Hassel se datorează faptului că oferă versiunea armatei germane asupra faptelor petrecute în război. Personajele sale au calități cinematografice și întruchipează diferite tipologii de soldat. Ficțiunea se îmbină atât de bine cu realitatea încât este imposibil, chiar și pentru specialiști, să le studieze separat.
Fort, puissant, direct... Cet aspect de la guerre m'était totalement inconnu. En France, traditionnellement, on ne réfléchit pas aux conditions de vie des soldats allemands, qui finalement étaient aussi mal lotis que les soldats de notre côté...
Funny and satirical. It brings a good laugh)))
Was the reality as described in this book?
I don't know.
I suspect it was worse.
It's kind of sickeningly funny how afraid I was to read about the execution.
And how easily it just slipped away.
Do people die so easily?
With all their dreams, from their families and friends, from the sunshine and the every day chores?
I suspect in those times, yes, they did.
There were, I presume, worse ways to self-defend...
Yet, I would have liked the book to be a bit more introspective.
Would I have been like 'them'?
I don't think I want to know the answer to those questions...
In my very early teens I avidly read Sven Hassel's books.
Spotting this book in a second-hand shop, I wondered whether how it would read today.
Would I start to seek out Sven Hasslels novels again in the way that I have subsequently sought out those of Greene, Yates and Le Carré?
It's certainly not as awful as I feared.
Surprisingly much of the novel is taken up with a prison situation and the musings of guards rather than the normal Hassel gang.
Written off as a folly of youth, but one that it is not quite so embarrassing as I feared.
Sven Hassel had unique talent to describe the most horrid things that one can do to another being.
Sven, Porta, Old man , Tiny and Legionnaire were back from horrid Russian front.
The old lady who was ratted out for some foolish talks by her neighbor, very capable lieutenant loved by the bunch of our ruffians simply arrested for some obscure reasons and tortured finally executed just because somebody wanted to fill some papers.
This book was hard to read because even if you knew that it was fiction, there was ugly truth behind those pages.
This book is meant to be for reader who is able to deal with such disturbing things.
"- Den där samlarmanin kommer att kosta er huvudet en vacker dag, spådde Gamle.
Ni bryter mot två paragrafer genom det där.
Den ena gäller likplundring.
Den är antagen av alla stater.
Den andra är bara underskriven av vår regering: allt tandguld är statens egendom och skall inlämnas till närmaste SD-tjänstställe.
Underlåtenhet: dödsstraff.- Ditt pessimistiska arsel, flinade Porta.- Jag avlämnar i allt fall inte mitt, fastslog Lillebror.
Jag ska ha ett korvstånd och en horkassa för de pengar jag får för det efter kriget.
I koncentrationlägren tar de ut guldplomberna på levande människor.
Vi är humana och väntar till de är döda."
Am citit că s-a specificat m-ai devreme că personajele nu sunt chiar ,,despăturite'',nu li s-a deschis personalitatea.În cazul dat nici nu prea era nevoia.Romanul dat este unul evident anti-război,este unul ce îți arată toată esența totalitarismului,controlului total și permanent asupra vieții unei întregi țări.Deasemenea,abordează tema cum acele grozăvii inmaginabile de pe front prefac oamenii în niște fiare,pentru care berea și țigările costă mai mult decât o viață omenească.Romanul se citește repede,aș spune chiar se vizionează,și pentru genul său,este destul de reușit.
This book, the fifth in the series, is by far the most coherently plotted. It is one long narrative, versus a series of sketches. The characters are both vivid and real. Among Hassel's chief strengths is the ability to show a character from his own viewpoint: even the worst of the many bad guys is not self consciously evil; but at the same time, their viciousness and degradation are not whitewashed. Neither are the good guys sainted; their fear and failings are clear, as is also their strength and dignity. Above all the story is a cracking good read.
A brilliant storyteller, I love to follow the adventures of this Disciplinary Regiment, a tank regiment that doesn’t actually have a tank to its name. Consisting of a bunch of hardened killers dressed in filthy rags and stinking to high heaven, they’re engaged in fighting a brutal battle against the Russians. Then suddenly the orders change: they’re sent to Hamburg, where their next assignment will be guard duty for the bestial Gestapo.
Sincera sa fiu pe mine nu m-a impresionat deloc, nici limbajul, nici actiunea. Poate ca pe alte persoane le impresioneaza un teatru de razboi, dar pe mine nu ma impresioneaza pentru ca am prea multe povesti de genul acesta in jurul meu.Trebuie sa recunosc ca au fost si momenteamuzante in carte dar din pacate multe dintre ele intrerupte de interminabile descrieri si povestiri.Daca va tenteaza incercati-o, poate va place.
My thoughts, the darkest themed book in my read through 3 books in the series. A journey alongside the hopelessness of Hamburg military prison and the sadistic filths who feed and keep it alive. Depressing atmosphere aside, Sven Hassel's familiar style of swear-ridden and tale-like storytelling will lock it's readers in place till the end as always.
Es un libro de historias, tiene las virtudes del escritor y todos sus defectos. Su relato es excesivamente disperso y a veces cuesta mucho seguir la historia. Está claro que no hay una línea argumental y que la narración se pierde en historias secundaria y en anécdotas. Es casi imposible resumir la historia principal, ya que cuando lo terminas no la recuerdas.
Sven Hassel's books remind me of Hans Hellmut Kirst, gritty, suspenseful, no-nonsense stories drawn from their authors' own experiences. This one is typical of Hassel's writing, and a good introduction to his style and pacing.
I liked the characters and the details about things that happen during a war. The story is easy to read and enjoyable. More than that, nothing super special.
o recomand tuturor celor care inca nu au apucat s-o citeasca
Sven wrote strong but honest war stories.Really autobiographical.
Limbaj colorat, umor, război, cruzime, violenţă. De toate găseşti în Gestapo.
Good
Tipically Sven Hassel.. a humorous, cinical, extremelly cruel but sad story! Delicious mix, I would say.
Worst book in the series. Barely managed to read through it...
