https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2700389-a-thin-ghost-and-others
I first read this slim book of ghost tales ten years ago, and, as a great admirer of Ghost Stories of an Antiquary, was initially disappointed in these five tales.
I took them for weak imitations of James' earlier triumphs, their potential power dissipated by Dickensian humor, unwelcome digressions, and convoluted plots.A second reading has changed my mind.
The domestic humor and narrative distortions I once deplored are conjurer's tricks James uses to disorient the reader, leaving him more susceptible—and therefore more vulnerable—to nightmare.
M.R. James, uno de los maestros de las ghost stories, tenía tres normas esenciales que todo relato de fantasmas debía cumplir:- La historia debe tener lugar en un entorno afín al lector.- Los fenómenos espectrales has de ser malévolos, es decir, la historia tiene que provocar miedo.- La trama ha de ser clara para el lector, que no se utilicen términos demasiado eruditos.Estos tres ingredientes, le sirven a James para escribir unos cuentos de terror fantásticamente bien escritos, donde lo mejor es cómo va construyendo, narrando, la historia.
Ahora entiendo la admiración de Lovecraft por este autor.Estos son los cuentos contenidos en 'El fantasma inconsistente y otros', que incluye una anexo con dos relatos que no aparecieron en la edición original:- LA RESIDENCIA DE WHITMINSTER (****).
Lean "Ratas"... sólo eso.Muahahahah...Luego hablamos.Ahora se de donde sacó Lovecraft su forma de escribir y muchos de sus motivos literarios. "Horror cósmico"... te quiero más que antes.Searching por más cuentos y obras de M.R. James. 4 estrellas de 5...altamente recomendable.
Disturbing nightmaresrelatives up to no goodgossiping townsfolk.
Review from BadelyngeM.R. James' third collection of superb ghost stories was published just after the first world war.
The first three stories are as chilling as ever.
What can beat the visceral chill of thinking you are safe in bed when your dangling hand touches something that is other in the dark.
Even though I'm in awe of the whole style of these short form ghost stories I must admit that the closing pair of stories were a little below the standard set in previous publications.
I heartily recommend the first two collections to be read before this one.
And read them in the depth of Winter when dark and cold holds sway.
M.R. James is reputed to be the creator of the modern ghost story, and is said to have inspired numerous 20th century horror writers.When I read that, I jumped at the chance to read his stuff, much of it for free on Project Gutenberg. This collection, the first I tackled, was a disappointment. The stories have an interesting build up, but end quickly and confusingly. I muttered "What was that all about?" at least twice, and was left wondering if the story had been cut short during scanning.I'll give him another shot.
Las historias de M R James tienen la honestidad de la oralidad, cosa curiosa y perdida en un género que parece necesitar de rincones, esquinas y grandes postes para poder beber originalidad. Esta es una lectura que recomiendo, no solo a fans de la fantasmagoriana, sino a cualquiera que vea valor en perseguir las zonas grises que nos rodean.
This is the third published volume of MR James horror short stories. These stories are a little more formulaic than those in the previous two volumes. But, just the same, they should be on the must-read list of any fan of the genre.3 STARS
If you are a fan of well-crafted ghost stories this is a must read. M. R. James is a true master when it comes to setting the scene for suspense.
These stories seem like a continuation of "Green Tea" by J.S. LaFanu.
Another great selection of M.R. James awesome stories. My favorite ones were The Residence at Whitminster and A Man near a Cemetery (I don't know the original Title, I read it in Spanish, sorry) D: I wonder how did he come up with the idea of fluffy-haired monsters coming out of tombstones...The suspense and gothic atmosphere of the charming English landscapes and villages always are the most enjoyable part for me. Hope to find more of his writing in the future. This was my third book from him.
Zeer literair... heel lange beschrijvingen, lange dialogen... het is het "gothic genre" met meer suggestieve dan expliciete horror scenes... Het taalgebruik is wel pittoresk, maar zal voor non-native speakers zeker niet altijd gemakkelijk zijn.Eerlijk gezegd heb ik meer genoten van "Ghost stories of an antiquary", maar dat is uiteraard een heel persoonlijke appreciatie.
Bit erraticI skipped over most stories after sampling some pages. They were overly long and meandering whilst some made no sense whatsoever.
Not as strong as "Ghost Stories of an Antiquary." A surprising letdown but still worth a read if you like Jamesian ghost stories.
Should not have read these before bed.
This is the shortest and (IMHO) the weakest of James' four books of ghost stories.
And after four years of the horrific "Great War" (World War I) in which so many English families lost loved ones, I'm sure he was right in thinking that any change of subject was likely to be an improvement.There are only five stories in this book.
No good clergyman wants to admit that Evil Forces could be a real threat to him, especially if he's attained the rank of Archbishop."The Story of a Disappearance and an Appearance" just confused me.
Buy M.R.JAMES 31 GHOST STORIES in the excellent Timeless Wisdom series.
Punch was still Punch, it is true, but, like the others, was in some sense a live creature, and both moved themselves at their own will.Out of the five stories in this book, my two favourites are An Episode of Cathedral History and The Story of a Disappearance and an Appearance.
The Story of a Disappearance and an Appearance is equally atmospheric, with the protagonist's prophetic dream of a real-life Punch and Judy show beng especially chilling.My least favourite is Two Doctors.
Reread because I forgot I read it and only realised when I got to the story about the unmarked crypt in the cathedral, haha.
It's understandable because although *enjoyable* and a few are pretty captivating outside of particular images they're not particularly memorable stories.
Each story has 1 image which you'll come away remembering, with the rest of the story building atmosphere.
The aforementioned "An Episode of Cathedral History" is probably the best because it goes into the most detail and the Two Doctors is the worst because it feels pretty insubstantial but they're all enjoyable enough.
Although still enjoyably creepy.
In A Thin Ghost and Others (1919), M R James lays aside most of his usual medieval props and builds his horrors, like LeFanu, his mentor, in 18th and 19th century settings.
Unlike his earlier tales, James' later fiction fiddles with complex narrations drawn from multiple sources and also delves into the queasy world of dreams and second sight.
The result is a collection of tales that requires more patience than one usually expects to give a ghost story.
And, oddly enough, the collection doesn't contain the title story, "A Thin Ghost."
I'm a bit torn. The root ideas of these stories are great--some of the ghosts are incredibly...strange and eerie, and others have no firm conclusion, leaving things unsettled and incomplete, in a good way. But the writing style... It's like Dickens writing ghost stories, or the more stilted of Lovecraft's prose. It's mechanically sound, but stylistically very Victorian, which is sometimes good but often not. M.R. James is one of the precursors of Lovecraft et. al., and I respect that, but still wish the prose were less...Victorian. 4 stars for the ideas, 2 for the writing.
I seem to remember enjoying the other two M.R. James collections I've read (Ghost Stories of an Antiquary and Ghost Stories of an Antiquary: Part Two) more, over all, than this one-- but that could just be me looking at the past through rose-colored lenses. My favorites in this bunch were "An Episode of Cathedral History", "The Residence at Whitminster", and "The Diary of Mr. Poynter".
These five stories, almost novellas, were disappointing. The narrator in each story interjected too much of himself and the denouement of each tale was too obscure. M.R. James, as a writer, has nothing of the other James of his era, although he is not a truly bad writer. But when compared to, for instance, Saki or Le Fanu or the great Henry James his work seems tepid.
Need to Read These AgainI struggled a bit with some of these stories, but that may be because I just need to read them more carefully. Compared to some of his earlier work these are a bit more subtle and the "horrors" not so obvious. But as always, they are works of great imagination.
More classic ghost stories. In the public domain, with a free electronic copy here.
Jennie has described M.R. James as being able to make even bedsheets scary.To this, I think we must add "hair."
Eh, not nearly as good as Ghost Stories of an Antiquary - or maybe I'm just getting burned out on late 19th century horror fiction.
I didn't like this half as much as his first book, or even the second. But it's M.R., so three stars.
Five short storiesAny fan of M. R. James will enjoy these 5 well formatted ghost stories complete with an index, for free. Each about 10 pages and very enjoyable.
Liked the ghostly subject matter but didn't like the art the stories were told in..narratives imitating 1800's..letters etc. I felt that the haunting MR James character was lost. Die-hard fans only.
These stories are definitely the 'also rans'......
