https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15797848-there-s-someone-inside-your-house
What happens when an author of cute, fluffy romances writes a gory slasher novel?
I'll tell you: You get possibly the most romance-heavy, make out-focused slasher novel you will ever read.Pretty much everything went wrong with this book.
If you want to read a story where most of the minor (i.e. we don't give a damn about them) characters die gory deaths in between repetitive make out/sex sessions, this is for you.
Attempts to ratchet up the tension in certain scenes lead to comical moments like this with an egg timer:
Stephanie Perkins definitely excels at writing fast reads, and this was no exception.
This book was basically the amount of gore and horror I can handle, sometimes it pushed me to my limits but for the most part it was fine.
Based on my limited knowledge of these kinds of stories, I know the general outline, and this felt quite generic to me.
The whole thing was very bare bones horror story, not much to add to it.
I never would have picked this up if it weren't by Stephanie Perkins just because I know I don't like the genre, but it was kind of nice to read outside of my comfort zone.
Is this the same woman who wrote Anna and the French Kiss?
I know a good bit of people didn't like this book but I freaking loved it and that's all that matters =D I loved Makani and Ollie!
And well, they got me a little hot and bothered at times.
So, Makani moved to town from Hawaaii < -- did I spell that right?
Makani had some stuff happen to her over on the island so her parents sent her away.
Ollie lives with his brother Chris, who is a cop, because their parents died years ago.
I also loved Makani's friends.
But the main story is of Makani and Ollie.
I would say it was a decent horror novel for a known YA contemporary author, but I’d like to see some improvement if Stephanie Perkins publishes more from this genre in the future.I definitely liked the characters, but I wouldn’t say they stuck with me.
I am also aware there was some controversy in regards to deadnaming in the original ARC, but the author has apologized and deleted it from the final copy.I did like that the book was very sex positive even though it’s not a huge part of the story.
I had a looooot of feelings about this book - actually, about how people have reacted to this book. So, I'm going to get a rant out of the way. Feel free to skip this paragraph if you don't like rants. People told me it was going to be absolutely horrible, that no self-respecting horror fan would enjoy it, that it didn't fit the horror genre, so on... alright. Lemme tell y'all something. I've been  obsessed  with horror movies AND books since I was five years old, roughly? I had a blast reading
People told me it was going to be absolutely horrible, that no self-respecting horror fan would enjoy it, that it didn't fit the horror genre, so on...
Do not run around telling people that they are no longer horror fans if they enjoyed this book.
Also, there are several references to safe sex, with talk about condoms and the like, which we definitely do not see frequently enough in YA!- the murders: of course they're not terrifying - this book is riding the line between YA contemporary and YA horror, so if you expected nightmare fodder, you should probably reevaluate your own genre-specific expectations...
DNF – 40%Was I supposed to be afraid of going to bed at night after finishing this book?
They didn’t keep me from closing my eyes, but they did make me tense and jump at key moments.This book didn’t do anything to me.
I was interested for a while, because I kept expecting something to happen or wishing, hoping anything would in the next sentences, but nothing ever did.So I closed it.
What is the point of reading a book with characters you care as much about as you do that ant stealing your bread?
Students kept dying off—whooooosh killer on the loose!!!—and still I expected something to happen.
This book could be divided into two different novels. On one hand you have a diverse love story with a splash of haunting past and on the other you have someone going around and killing students in a small town during Halloween. They work fine when they are two separate entities. Together, they create a mess. I still love Stephanie Perkins. I just don't think her mind is messed up enough to create a good slasher.
You’d think “teen” means we just like the idea of a killer running around amidst our making out and hooking up teen drama-fest, but we don’t actually want any tension-filled horror scenes that fill you with dread for what’s to come.I should’ve known after the first chapter.
And I did adjust my expectations a bit, hoping for some awesome twist at some point to make up for it all.
Except we don’t get the murder scene.
Any of the reasons I gravitate to slasher or horror in general aren’t present in this novel.
I loved the idea of this novel.
Although, at the beginning it felt like it would be one of those boring thrillers with a predictable plot, I was taken by surprise.
I also loved the romance throughout the story, even if at the beginning I was concerned, as the author invested a lot of writing in that.
Moving on, I would like to have more information on the Makani’s relationship with her parents.
I would have embraced the fact, would it be a romance and not a thriller.Overall, it was a good read and I recommend it to those who are in search of some mystery, suspense, crazy serial killers (as if there are sane serial killers), and some romance.
As long as it's got your name on it, Stephanie Perkins, I'll read it. Even if it gives me nightmares.
So missleading.. Literally not at all what I expected.I have way to many questions still and feel really confused.I LOVED the romance and the dialogue was fun but apart from that it was odd.Sentences just seemed like they had been placed awkwardly and the flash back scene was odd. I just feel like a lot of this didn't need to be in it.I am so sad that i didnt like this
No idea if it will be fixed in future editions.My thoughts:I went into this book knowing that it was a blend of romance and a cheesy teen slasher rather than serious horror.
The text ends at the bottom of a page and I turned the page expecting more only to be met with blank end pages!All in all, if the trans rep problem will actually be fixed, I would read a sequel (or 5) of this.
♚ Makani's character arc around no longer hating herself is kind of a brilliant idea.
The first half being more romancey could actually work in the book's favor, with a fabulous buildup where you come to care for every character with the knowledge that things are about to get crazy in the back of your mind.
No, you can't focus on romance anymore.♔ Makani's character arc feels messy.
This could still work with Perkins' route; direction two would be focusing on her hatred for herself and writing a good character arc.
UPDATE JUNE 10, 2017 .Now that was some wicked, delightful,  bloody  fun. I enjoyed this book so much. Probably more than I intended to. And it's extremely short. The book barely clocks in 300 pages. However, it is an arc so there's that but I actually, genuinely, enjoy this format a lot better. The main character is Hawaiian and there's some great LGBTQ representation in the book as well. I could relate very well with the main character, whose name is, Mariko Young. Going to a midwestern state
The main character is Hawaiian and there's some great LGBTQ representation in the book as well.
Written on paper, however....If not for the YA classification, this book, were it made into a movie, would be hardcore rated R.
I'm actually surprised that this book will be released for ages 14+.
I also think the book itself would have benefited so much more if the characters in were in college instead of in high school.
It's funny actually, I was really hesitant and wary of reading this book because of the author's previous works.
....but like the characters in the movie are the same age??K.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Words cannot even express the amount of joy it brings me when I am the first of my friends to read something. Well, when it’s something I liked - being the one to burst the bubble when a highly anticipated release turns out to be a turd kinda sucks. Anywho, when I saw this blurb . . . .  “Scream meets YA”  I had much excite! But then I saw the next part . . . .   “ in this hotly-anticipated new novel from the bestselling author of Anna
(Except what Shelby just read about eating baby teeth – that seems pretty friggin’ original.) There’s Someone Inside Your House proves that an idea doesn’t have to be original for it to be a crapload of fun.
There’s a super baddy who just wants to .
Well, maybe he wants to stab the shit out of you and mash your brains, but you get the idea.
There are oversexed teens who say things like “I’ll be right back” and other stuff that shows they didn’t take the sage advice of this fella .
I've adored everything I've previously read from Stephanie Perkins' and didn't want to be disappointed.
She has an ability to make me instantly care about the people she writes and stories she tells.There's Someone Inside Your House was fast paced, gruesome and disturbing.
However, what you do get is a brilliant mix of the two and I would 100% recommend it.With its diverse cast of loveable characters, grisly murders and heart warming relationships, There's Someone Inside Your House is a book I didn't realise I needed but most certainly did.
I enjoyed reading about the romance, it wasn’t rushed and Stephanie perkins has this way of writing the cutest couples gahhhh but honestly I was CRAVING to see more of the other to-be-couples (view spoiler)[ but then one of them got brutally murdered so there goes that  (hide spoiler)]I also heard a lot of people say the thriller aspect was boooooring to them and bruh idk about you but THERE WERE PARTS THAT I WAS SHAKING so like just keep an open mind if you’re gonna pick this one upALSO THIS IS PROBABLY THE FIRST CONTEMPORARY I READ THAT IS WRITTEN IN 3RD PERSON YYYAASSSS3.5 stars!!
At this point I don’t know why I liked Anna and the French Kiss two years ago, maybe if I reread it now I’d hate it as much as the other ones.
I really wonder what I liked about it back then.Her characters and the relationships feel unreal to me, that’s why I can’t enter the story completely.
I don’t really care about them.And most importantly, her mc are so unlikable and immature.However, this book in particular had many problems regarding the plot.
Reveal the killer in the middle of the book.
The mysterious killer also being someone we don’t know and don’t care about.2.
Makani’s friends suspect Ollie since he had Makani’s phone number without her knowing.
The killer was identified half way into the story when he tried to murder Makani (after the attack she had to reveal her past to her friends) and the other remaining half of the story is about running after the murderer while guessing the next target and informing victims-to-be about their vulnerability for an attack.I quite don’t understand the motive behind all these murders expect that the murderer is jealous about the students who were trying to move away from Osborne.
Ok, so I think a lot of people will like this book if slasher stuff is their thing. I'm leaving a rating off because I called it a DNF – horror or anything stressful just realllly isn't for me. I tried! I do love this author, but am going to stick with something more lighthearted like Anna and the French Kiss. Thank you to the publisher for sending me an ARC.
hoping there's a british/french/american boot-wearing hottie in this one.and also that he doesn't die.don't fail me this time, Perkins.
4.5 starsI had been hearing Stephanie talk about her upcoming YA horror for a while and I was so excited for it.
So when I saw it on EW, I downloaded it immediately and got to reading.I loved this cast of characters.
They're smart and strong and loyal to each other.
Makari and Ollie are adorable and there's definitely the standard spark and banter that we expect from Stephanie's words.
There's also some great diversity represented as well as a thread of inner monologue from Makari about asking about genitalia and ethnicity.Plotwise, it starts out with a bang and was pretty fast paced throughout.
A YA horror novel? By the author of Anna and the French Kiss you say? Interesting ...
Meh. This was whatevs. I didn’t hate it, but I definitely think Stephanie Perkins is better at writing fluff than gore.
Meh. This was whatevs. I️ didn’t hate it, but I️ definitely think Stephanie Perkins is better at writing fluff than gore.
I mean it’s a freaking YA horror book here, if you think you were going to get thoroughly creeped out, then you probably should have shot your way over to the big guns like Stephen King or Clive Barker.
I for one don’t get scared with books or horror flicks, so I can’t say whether this was scary or not.
Also, put in Perkins’ quirky humor and writing which made that awesome as well.If you were expecting some epic killer reveal like Saw (the first one) or Scream, then you should prob go somewhere else.
My only real problem was that the killer was revealed halfway throughout the book.
One night I stayed up quite late reading this book and I got freaked out so I decided to escape upstairs and try to sleep.
They kind of took a step back once the relationship with Ollie for going and then popped up again when they needed to be threatened to affect Makani.
The way he literally launched himself, butt naked down the stairs to save Makani from the killer was amazing.
It genuinely is like reading a book version of Scream or I Know What You Did Last Summer and it is just as jumpy and creepy!!
Book Blog | Bookstagram  "People live through such pain only once; pain comes again, but it finds a tougher surface."  Opening Hook: Start your egg timersMain Character: A fish-out-of-water, almost literally.Plot Twisty-ness: Too busy writing characters making out to remember to write the twistsI’m going to try to be nice.And I’m going to try to be nice because while I didn’t really love this like I wanted to, I also didn’t hate it on its face. It’s not a bad novel in terms of writing, in fact,
Though it did start off with enough sinister vibe to really catch my attention, the rest of the novel failed to live up to that feeling of suspense.This is, for all intents and purposes, a romance novel set against a horror story backdrop.This is horny teens fucking and drooling over each other, and then in between some random characters, who you don’t give a shit about, die.I will say this to the benefit of Perkins – those death scenes were gory and gruesome and I thoroughly enjoyed them.But what I would have enjoyed even more is something being at stake.
This was not just diversity for diversity’s sake, but an authentic collection of characters whose experiences combined to make this both an informative read and one whose many mysteries could not be solved without this alternative perspective to the accepted.Perkins quite cleverly uses these perspectives to voice an acceptance of those who challenge the status quo and pays homage to the brave who do so in real life.
Each character here had their own unique story to tell and their voices combined to make this a truly enlightening experience for both readers and fictional townsfolk alike.I adored this aspect of the novel but found the actual crime element far tamer thriller than I was expecting.
I know there are some unsavory reviews on this book but honestly I really enjoyed my evening of reading it. Yeah, it did remind me of Scream meets I Know What You Did Last Summer but I liked those movies also so I'm not going to knock that aspect. This is a quick read that is very different from Perkins' other books but honestly I hope she writes more of these teen slasher type books. Overall, a quick read that I honestly really enjoyed!
