https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/83264.The_Masnavi
Masnavi-i Ma'navi = Masnavi = The Masnavi, Jalaluddin RumiThe Masnavi, or Masnavi-i Ma'navi, also written Mesnevi, Mathnawi, or Mathnavi, is an extensive poem written in Persian by Jalal al-Din Muhammad Balkhi also known as Rumi, the celebrated Persian Sufi poet.
It is one of the best known and most influential works of Sufism.
"This world’s a playground and the night is death—You go home empty-handed, out of breath." Like part one of Masnavi (there are six parts in all), it is full of beautiful verses and stories, though I loved the verses from the first part more. Some of my favorite verses are the arguments that Satan forwards in one of the stories to prove that he is god's servant and so innocent: "I am the touchstone which detects real gold. I give God’s test to dogs and lions too, Like gold and counterfeit—I see
I give God’s test to dogs and lions too, Like gold and counterfeit—I see what’s true.
How can I ever blacken gold that’s real; Like money-changers I can only deal: I guide to goodness every passer-by, And break of only branches which are dry."
Of course, though his arguments are logically sound, Satan wasn't really innocent.
And this is really one of the main calls from Rumi - the abandonment of reason and arguments in favor of spiritual experience, for true wisdom is beyond knowledge that can be gained through senses or described in words:
مدنی این مثنوی تعطیل شد، مهلتی بایست تا خون، شیر شداین دفتر با این بیت آغاز می شود، بیت روشنتر از آنست که تعبیر و تفسیر بخواهد، مثل آفتاب می درخشد
Jilid kedua karya Maulana Rumi ini dibuka dengan puisi yang sangat mengagumkan - bagaimana Maulana m
Rumi is a literary genius, one of the world's greatest muslim poet and writer.
Mesnevi'nin ikinci cildi ve Mevlana kaldığı yerden devam ediyor. Hem hikâyeler anlatıyor hem de öğüt veriyor. Bir yandan da uyarıyor. Anlatılanın suretine değil, manasına bakın. Özellikle bela ve musibetler karşısında sabır konusunu işliyor. Hele Lokman'ın hikayesi çok anlamlı.Ayrıntılar: http://kitapokurum.blogspot.com/2018/...
Great book and awesome poetic translation. You will feel that it's written in English by Rumi (R.A) himself. A must read.
Amazing
While there is some overlap with Book One, Book Two of the Masnavi focuses on a different aspect of Sufism. Book One tells stories which focus primarily on the carnal soul which dominates human beings ‘like a terrorising lion’. In comparison, Book Two is much more concerned with the challenge sufis face in understanding people’s true nature behind appearances so that one can identify with whom to associate in order to make progress on their mystical path. A deep, meaningful read..
