https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11574.The_Body
It was grand." **********But we meet them right at the time when they are about to leave the protection of childhood behind them, when in the miserably hot summer of 1960 they set out on a trip to find a body of a boy who disappeared in the woods - a trip that makes at least two of them go through quite significant emotional turmoil and reevaluate their priorities and see the strengthening of one friendship while the others fall apart as the realization sets in that there is more to friendship than just fun and leisure.
Set in 1960, the story takes place in the small town of Castle Rock, Maine, where twelve-year-old Gordie Lachance and his three friends are ready to set out to substantiate the rumours that the body of a missing boy has turned up near the next town.
No need to be wary, for there is little gore, but enough language that some readers may want to look elsewhere.I always enjoy Stephen King pieces, as they keep me wondering where things will go in his circuitous writing style.
Gordie offers up much development as it relates to his friends, giving the reader a more comprehensive approach to those who populate the story.
Beautiful short story 💕'

Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/The premise is simple: “Do you guys wanna go see a dead body?” The end product is quite possibly the best coming-of-age story ever written. This is what the saying “boys will be boys” is about. It’s about going on an adventure, and saying swear words when out of your parents’ earshot, and trying a cigarette just so you can say you did, and standing up to bullies, and most of all it’s about friendship. Because really? “I never had any f
The end product is quite possibly the best coming-of-age story ever written.
I decided to give this one a listen after forcing it on my oldest son in order to make sure he’s actually reading when he says he is.
The good news is I was able to pull a double-whammy and make the youngest listen too on the way to and from his baseball tournament this weekend.
He completely blew me away when he complained as I hit strategically hit pause at a certain point in the story so we could hear it in full the next morning.
Well what can I say? What a great coming of age drama. King at his absolute best. When this story was made into a film Stand By Me with River Phoenix and Keifer Sutherland I thought there is no way they will make the movie as good as the book. Well I was wrong, the film is brilliant too.👍🐯 "So darling, darling, stand, by me, oooooooh! Stand, by me..."
I really liked the movie Stand By Me so I knew going in to expect a great read, but what I found was so much more.The Body is a timeless coming-of-age story.
Set in late summer of 1960's Maine, four twelve-year-old buddies, all with strangely abusive and dysfunctional families, take a longer than anticipated walking trip in hopes of seeing a dead body rumored to be hit by a train.
As their many harrowing adventures and touching personal stories unfold, they run into big trouble with some older dudes, but rein victorious......or so they think.In the end, the boys discover many tough, but important lessons about life, and the narrator (unlike in the movie) reveals how three of the lads sadly meet their untimely demise.
This early Stephen King story was adapted into the 1986 movie Stand by Me. The setting is 1960s Maine where four young teens take a walking adventure trip looking for a dead boy's body. If you grew up in the 50s and 60s, this is the kind of stuff you would do, damn the consequences. Great story telling by a master story teller.
4.5*Αγαπητέ Στήβεν,Ξέρω οτι σε έχω κατηγορήσει πολλές φορές για την ατελείωτη φλυαρία σου αλλά αυτή 
5 starsSimply amazing.
It’s hard to make strangers care about the good things in your life.”Besides  Charles Dickens and  Ruth Hogan, Stephen King is one of the few authors I admire who has always been able to stir so many different emotions in me in a single book.Any other author could have written the simple story of 4 adolescents, who decide to embark on a journey to see the body of another youth, who has been killed by a train.
But not anyone could have conveyed the senses of pleasure, misery, horror, rage, decency, camaraderie, wonderment and sympathy embedded throughout the story.
It was very classic Stephen King, a coming of age story for four boys in Castle Rock, Maine.
(Walking train tracks through the woods, battling bullies, swimming, etc.) One of them is even a writer- which I believe one of the kids in IT grows up to be?The whole thing was so similar it just struck me as odd.
Sure, King reuses a lot of the same themes, (set in Maine, writers, coming of age, kids as heroes, bullies, etc.) but nothing I've ever read from him made me go- gee, haven't I heard this story before?
Which makes sense as this was the original story that inspired the movie.
Certainly the King version is much more vulgar and up front, but the wonder of youth and the harsh reality of time is there, in the film.
I've always been a huge fan of the film and was always curious as to King's take on it.
Both are very strong tales, some say his best (I've only read Dreamcatcher, FYI), and that is the same case here.
The one thing I will say that seperates the tale from the film is the ending.
This my second reading of The Body, and its just as powerful this time round, at times even more so because knowing how it ends changes how it reads, if that makes sense.
It's strongly linked in my mind with the movie (Stand By Me), which really captured this story, I think.
I picture Chris as he was portrayed by River Phoenix for example (the same goes for the rest of them).
For me the movie blends perfectly with the book (in my mind at least).
I think it is a story I'll return to many times, both in book and film form.
It really captures something beautiful and special.
how did I not know that one of my top 3 favourite movies was adapted from a bookI'm such a Fake Reader™
The only other thing that I've ever read by Stephen King roughly the first 200 pages of Under The Dome.
That was a while ago, and I have read many books since then, and my tastes have developed more.
I decide to try out reading The Body because it was classified as young adult, and it might be less...
It was still a little graphic to be classified as young adult, but I suppose that is the best you will get with a Stephen King book.3.5/5 stars.
I may read something else by Stephen King, but it will not be anywhere in the foreseeable future.
The harsh reality of life, leaking out of a would-be romantic childhood adventure, lulls you into the wonder of youthful friendship, then slams you hard with the realization that life happens to everyone, and nothing about that is fair.
I've always liked it when a story had the power to make me cry, and this one did far more than that.
I've cried over many a book before, but I have never felt quite like this before, satisfied, but snubbed.
Any story that can illicit that response from me is all right in my book, and I give it my recommendation with the highest regard.
Friendship is like the sun above thats always shining bright, Friendship is like a golden smile that warms the coldest night, Friendship is a priceless gift of faithfullness and grace, and nothing in this world could ever take true friendships place...The story is so sobering but touchful, u'll learn more about how to be a good friend, to be a good man for your brother even he was dead.
this was like a 2.5/3 for me. Sorry if you're really into it, lol. It had some really nice moments but otherwise I was kinda meh about it. Maybe if I had read a physical copy I would have had more of an emotional response to it.
When we visited my grandma, she had one VHS we watched all the time: Stand By Me. It was like a ritual.
It was like a ritual because I don't know how it started, and I don't remember the last time.
It made a great movie for this sort of thing.
The book and the movie are very close.
If you're familiar with the movie, the book doesn't hold a ton of surprises.
The movie ending is really good, and so is the book ending.
It's not bad, but it feels like it's just kind of in there.
The inspiration for the highly-rated 1986 film Stand By Me, The Body is different than Stephen King's usual writing. Unlike his gory horror novels, this short story is just a book about four misfit kids who go on a hike to find a rumored dead body downtown, but on the way, they learn about friendship and family and reputation, and they also learn the real meaning of death, and what once became an immature adventure they eventually see the seriousness behind.
The death of childhood (or the Fall from Innocence, as the novella is subtitled) is a tragedy that some people never recover from and attempts to recover it often end in more pain than the initial separation, but there’s a strong compulsion to sometimes like feeling out a cavity with your tongue or poking at a cut to see if it still hurts.For me the center of the story isn’t Gordon Lachance’s maturation, it’s the tragedy of Chris Chambers.
My favourite by this author. .......
In our literature classes we were often required to analyse the cover pictures and the titles and were asked to find their relation with the content of the book.
The boys growing up in a small town, recently discovering the taste of whatever is prohibited, jumps at the opportunity to run into the wild to see a dead body.
This is where the boys will discover themselves more, feel the true form of friendship and set their destinies.To be honest, loved every single part of this story.
There are parts where I cried.
There are parts where I felt scared.
This is a story that can make you feel so many things.
Απ' τα καλύτερα του Κινγκ.
But the ending was a downer.This novella was first published in the anthology “Different Seasons.” It is available individually as an audiobook, which is how I heard/read it.
I was frequently smiling as I listened to these four twelve-year-old boys hanging out and taking a sixteen hour walk.
The abuse parts were not the main story, but it’s behind things.
I want to be entertained and feel good, which I was during most of the book, but the ending took me down.
King book “God doesn’t care.” But, I’m still glad I read it.Note on stupidity.
বাইরে কযামপের নাম করে চার বনধু অভিযানে বের হয়। জঙগলে একজনের লাশ পরে আছে শুনে সেটা আবিসকার করার নেশায় পেয়ে বসে তাদেরকে। তাদের উদদেশয হচছে লাশের কথা পুলিশকে জানিয়ে করেডিট নিবে। জঙগলের পথে যাওয়ার সময় একবার তারা সামানযের জনয টরেন একসিডেনটে পরে বেঁচে যায় আরেকবার ভুতের ভয়ে ঘুমাতে পারে না। পুকুরে সাতার দেবার সময় গাদা গাদা জোঁকের খপপরে পরে যায় । শেষ পরযনত যখন কাঙখিত লকষযে পৌছায় তখন সেখানে গিয়ে আবিসকার করে তাদের আগেই আরও একটা দল সেখানে উপসথিত হয়ে আছে। মুখোমুখি সংঘরষের এক পরযায়ে পরচনড ঝড় আসে । এরপর কি হয়

The boys then go on an expedition to find the body, purely out of fascination, whilst also taking some more psychological journeys of self-realisation and coming-of-age.Characters include Chris Chambers, who comes from a very troubled family with an alcoholic and violent father; Gordon Lachance, whose elder brother has recently died in a jeep accident and is very ignored at home (this is our narrator in their adult self); Teddy, whose father is mentally unstable and has previously physically wounded Teddy as a young child, + Vern, the one who hears about the body in the first place and gets the expedition going.Various themes in this book include self-realisation, the impact of death, continuing with life despite social pressure or social norm, childhood trauma, friendship through hard times, the difficulty of expressing yourself, memory...there are probably more themes a reader could pick out as even though this book is very short, it has many layers.I thought this was a really satisfying, interesting and, at times, heartwarming novella.
It's funny, sometimes, how you can build an impression of an author early in your life and then, based on that impression, avoid their books.
I always thought that SK's books were too scary, too gory, too dark for me to enjoy so I never bothered with them.
However, over the last year or so, I've started reading his novellas and his newer releases.
This book is no exception.
I remember the movie Stand By Me well, and the book is even better with an ending that left me so sad as I finished listening to the audiobook early this morning.
This brought back memories of the boys, and now the men that I know. There was a freedom before I-Pods and Xboxes, for adventures, daring, swearing, smoking, neighborhood sports that forged a brotherhood of respect (or not) amongst these lads. It has made them who they are today. I love how these cranky twelve year olds plan an adventure out of the curiosity of seeing a dead body. This story was a walk down memory lane! :D
