https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/212196.Der_35_Mai_oder_Konrad_reitet_in_die_S_dsee
This book by Erich Kästner, a left-wing, pacifist author writing in 1931 Germany, is compared by many reviewers to Carroll's Alice in Wonderland; to me, it came across as more like the first half of Vian's L'écume des jours, a manic surrealist dream that's just about to turn into a nightmare.
An entirely mechanized farm, where thousands of cows are herded into the opening of a huge machine; without human intervention, they are slaughtered, cut into pieces and turned into wurst, schnitzel, whipped cream, suitcases and leather shoes, which pour out onto conveyor belts at the other end.Two years after Kästner published it, Hitler came to power and started publicly burning his books...
This is the oldest book that I own, it's a Dutch translation and it's not dated so I'm not really sure about how old it is.I got this book from my great-grandmother and I remember reading this over and over again when I was a kid.
Very funny, highly absurd, I didn't know this as a child, but I would have loved it.I liked the last part best, when they finally meet the girl called Petersilie (and discover the whale in the forest), it's really fun and I just love this typical Kästner language immensely.
The way they talk is just too funny.(I seem to have read way too much Kästner - and later on too much Tucholsky and watched too much Loriot...
But still very enjoyable!This is my favorite quote:"Konrad war nicht fähig, etwas zu erwidern.
Mai is a day where crazy things happen - especially to Konrad and his uncle Mr. Ringelhuth.
There were interesting things mentioned in here like the "land of plenty" or the 'wrong world'.There was a scence, where the children take over the responsibilities of an adult, tyrannical adults are however sent to a conduct school.It's adventurous, hilarious and blatantly "futuristic" in Erich Kaestner's writing.
Indeed, it does remind me a bit of  Alice in Wonderland but not sure which one I like better as they both have a surreal world that I love.
Детска книжка, прескачаща границите на абсурда и носеща доста добри послания, заради които не би било възможно издаването и днес.Автора соли много сериозно дебелаците и мардите. Има и негри човекоядци, тъпи родители, говорещи коне на кънки, както и едно момиченце на черни и бели квадрати, защото баща и е вожд, а майка и - обикновена машинописка. :P
Surrealistyczna opowieść, która wciągnęła i dzieciaki i mnie. Choć nie historia jest w tej opowieści najważniejsza, a humor. Świetne, abstrakcyjne poczucie humoru Kästnera, a dodatkowo fantastyczne ilustracje Butenki. Gorąco polecamy do wspólnej lektury!
Sehr lustig für einen Science-Fiction-Roman. Ich mag es.
A cute, funny, classical kids book.I read this because we're going to be performing this with our theater group.
the kids still love it but as an adult it feels outdated and with boring political jokes. not worth returning to
Книга, която се препрочита задължително поне веднъж годишно :) Толкова абсурди, толкова чувство за хумор, толкова увлекателно четиво... нямам думи!
This book is one of my favourite childrens book. And actually I still enjoy reading it today, everytime I visit my grandma I have a glance at it and it still is amusing.It is about a boy called Konrad and his uncle who looks after him every thursday (not sure about the day) and they always have a lot of fun, because the uncle doesnt have any wife or kids himself. This time, it is the 35th of May, which is strange from the start, because that date is impossible...and Konrad has to write about the
And actually I still enjoy reading it today, everytime I visit my grandma I have a glance at it and it still is amusing.It is about a boy called Konrad and his uncle who looks after him every thursday (not sure about the day) and they always have a lot of fun, because the uncle doesn´t have any wife or kids himself.
It is an amazingly well constructed story, exciting, inspiring and colourful and I hope it´s been translated to many languages, because I think every kid should get a chance to read this awesome book.
One of the books I loved as a child. It differs from most other books by Kästner I've read (The Emil stories, The flying classroom) - a bizarre, funny story. Maybe books like this (and the works of Michael Ende of course) were the reason for me to pick up fantasy literature as a teen.
About an imaginary trip to the South Seas, there isn't the same kind of character development in this book that there is in other Erich Kaestner novels. But the last two sentences are back in character and absolutely lovely.
I loved this book so much as a kid, rereading it I wasn't very impressed - it is very short and very juvenile. But it is also very imaginative.A short read - takes about an hour to finish the whole book. Great for children.
One of his boring books. Which is odd considering it's packed with weird happenings, maybe something about his tone that didn't agree with me. 2.5 stars
Très rigolo et amusant, c'est une version améliorée d'Alice in Wonderland
I cried laughing.
Read it in Hebrew. Loved it as a child. Erich Kästner was a great writer. It's a shame his works aren't widely available in English.
Bought this as an English translation from a library book sale (it was the library's version) in the late 70s and always loved the whimsical tale of how Konrad foiled the thieves.
tolles Buch. Ich liebe Erich Kästners Geschichte. Die sind der Hammer. <3
Lovely story - sweet and very creative!
