https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/718473.White_Stallion_of_Lipizza
I cannot imagine how an e-edition would reproduce the -- to me, integral -- classic illustrations by Wesley Dennis, so this is definitely worth obtaining on paper, with the color plates.A story of the Spanish Riding School of Vienna during the post-WWII-era directorship of Colonel Alois Podhajsky, told through the eyes of Hans, the young son of a Viennese baker, who aspires to become a master rider there.It makes me want to hunt out the old Disney movie about the dramatic rescue of the institution and its horses during WWII -- ah, I don't have to hunt very far; Netflix has it.
There is not much of a plot, although it is partly based on the life of a real rider with the Spanish Riding School of Vienna.
Yes, Vienna is not in Spain but the style of riding (and some of the original bloodstock for the Lipizzaner) originated in Spain.
You may know Lipizzaner best from the Walt Disney film:It's hard to read about the happy times in Austria portrayed here and know that World War II is just around the corner.
Writing about the Spanish Riding School during World War II would have made for a more interesting book.
But his passion is for horses, and his dream is to one day be a Riding Master and work with the magnificent Lipizzaners of the Spanish Riding School of Vienna.
Against the odds he gets a chance to pursue his ambition, and this story tells in exquisite detail all that he goes through in training.No one can tell a horse story like Marguerite Henry, and what keeps this tale from becoming a dry history is the coming-of-age of young Hans and the development of his bond with the veteran stallion Maestoso Borina.
We as readers become completely invested in Hans's hopes and dreams, crashing with him in his despairing moments, and thrilling to his successes.
Review to come.
Excellent book about a boy whose determination and hard work help him live his dream.
4.5 starsI think this is now my second-favorite Marguerite Henry story (after King of the Wind). I really enjoyed learning more about the Lipizzan horses, and following Hans, the protagonist, on his dream to become a Riding Master. He demonstrates a sincerity and passion in his pursuit of knowledge and experience that is admirable and contagious.I also enjoyed reading this in a large format rather than a mass market paperback -- the numerous small illustrations really help tell the story, especially when complex horse ballet movements are described.
The White Stallions of Lipizza are an absolute spectacle.
Hans Haupt makes it his mission to become one with the world of Lipizzaners but, and let's face it, when has society seen a baker's boy rise to great fame other than through his pastries?
The Spanish Riding School of Vienna is no place for such an individual.
"White Stallion of Lipizza" will take you to places that you never could have imagined could possibly exist in this world.
Places so exquisite and yet so heavenly that you will not have time to take your breath back.
I read this book aloud to my daughters.We loved this book! My elder daughter especially loves horses and riding, so she was particularly interested in the details that Henry provided with regards to training of both the horses and riders.This inspirational book teaches that dreams can come true through hard work and perseverance. Hans did, at times, feel discouraged but he persisted. We should all work hard to attain our goals, which is a good value for young children to learn.MY RATING: 4 stars!
The White Stallion of Lipizza is a truly lovely book. I read it second grade and I haven't forgotten it since. It's a simple and charming yet deep story with everything a seven-year-old could possibly desire in a book: gorgeous white horses, bakeries, adventure, family, and dreams with some challenges and loss thrown in to hold everything together. This is a book every kid should get the chance to read.
I loved this story so much as a child that I made sure to attend a performance of the Lipizzaners when I was in Vienna. It accomplished what every children's book should, it opened a new interest in my young life. The performance in Vienna is one of the most memorable moments in my life, thank you Marguerite Henry!
So far, I have loved every Marguerite Henry book I have ever found. She is one author who wrote intelligently for young adults. When I read her now, I do not wonder what I saw in her books. I still enjoy them!This book has some of the most beautiful of Wesley Dennis' illustrations.
As a kid in the 1960s I looked forward to getting new horse books by Maruerite Henry for birthday or other special occasions. I was a horse fanatic. Someday I hope to go to a horse show to see these horses.
It was very interesting because I didn't know anything about these famous Austrian horses! But, Savannah thought some parts were a little boring. She is not that into horses but if you had a kid who is into horses they'd prob really love this story.
"All Viennese are proud of the Lipizzaners. For most of us it is a thing to admire from afar. Like stars. Or the moon when it is new."Easy-to-read, face paced. Beautiful images. Great read for horse lovers of any age.
I've read this book to both of my boys and my daughter when they were each around 8 years old. It's a terrific coming-of-age story with great historical detail. I've enjoyed reading it aloud every time, and each of my children enjoyed the book as well.
Anything by Marguerite Henry is great absolutely you should read itIt was absolutely amazing and I enjoy disappointed it was spectacular it was every thing I thought it would be!!!
Happy Birthday, Marguerite Henry - April 13, 1905
I LOVED these books by Marguerite Henry as a pre-teen. Any girl who is horse-crazy will love them.
This book was amazing and I would recommend it if you are a horse lover.
Great details about the lippazaner horses of Vienna
A skillfully written book about chasing your dreams. The author's knowledge of horses is evident in her descriptions and teaches novices a little hippology. This book also gave us some wanderlust in the direction of the Spanish Riding School in Vienna! Educational read!
Very well written story of a young boy, Hans Haupt, who sees the Lipizzan Stallions on their way to practice each morning and wants to be a Rider of the Stallions. The story details his journey to finally becoming a rider who has been trained by his horse. While the story is written for children, it is a very good read for an adult, too.
Ms. Henry’s love of horses and her meticulous attention to detail shine through in this short, sweet tale of a boy’s almost fanatical desire to rise above his humble origins and become part of a grand tradition of Vienna.
But what truly shines is his devotion to his steed, an aging stallion known as Maetoso Borina, and his powerful determination to make his own influence invisible so that the beast can shine in the arena.The old world of Vienna also shines here, from its mundane routines to its inner secrets.
A beautiful story of a dream birthed, cherished, pursued, and won. We read this aloud. My son loved it and related to the main character even though they have very different life dreams.
It seems every horse lover has a favorite breed.
One horse breed seems to transcend this: the Lipizzaner.
The appeal of their intricate maneuvers and especially the airs above ground seems universal.So where did these horses come from?
What are the airs above ground?Marguerite Henry tells the story of a young Viennese boy with a dream of one day being a Riding Master of the Spanish Riding School.
All you need to enjoy this book is an interest in this special breed of horse.
You don't even need to be horse crazy.
I remember checking out this book.
After reading, I remember thinking how magical it all seemed and that this was true, these horses really did exist.
The horse on the cover is what drew my attention and I thought the horse was beautiful and I had to take this book home and read about him.
I remember I didn't want to return the book to the library; but, I had too.
My love for this book has stayed with me all of these years.
If you have a child who loves to read about horses this is a must read for them.
Hans dreams of riding the famous Lippizan stallions.
A dream that seems all but impossible for a baker’s son, especially after Hans’s father is injured in a cart accident.But Hans will do anything to pursue his dream: read ancient texts about the war general, Xenophon, sneak off to see the Lippizan colts in the dead of night, and, yes, commit years of his life.
If that’s what it takes.White Stallion of Lippiza is a mid-grade novel (though the one I read was formatted like a giant picture book) about a boy who finds his dream at an early age.
I appreciated Hans’s commitment, both to his family and to his dream.
Beautiful, informative, great illustrations. This was truly a book for the whole family. Hans works in the family bakery, but his dream is to work with the Famous Lipizzaner Horses that he sees each Sunday as they march to their performance. Will Hans have to let go of his dream, or can determination get him what he wants?Great as a history, geography, and science lesson if you study further about Austria, the Lipizzaner Horses, Horse Training and Anatomy, and WW2 and General Paton's part in saving the Lipizzaners.
A fascinating horse story by an author whom many call the most famous horse author ever, this book is also a story about horse training, the history of the white Lipizzaner stallions of Vienna, and a young boy who has and pursues an impossible dream. I especially appreciated the fact that things were not made easy for him. His dream did not come true by magic, but by hard work and persistence, even when things were difficult and others were discouraging.
I re-read this book because I am fulfilling a life's dream - to visit the Lippizzaner stud farm in Slovenia! I owned the book as a girl - and I read all of Marguerite Henry's horse books! No, this isn't great literature, but it was just what I wanted to get me in the mood to see the stud farm. I see why I loved it as a girl...the story is just the right balance between information and story, not too much emotion or drama. Even as a 62 year old I cried when Hans felt that he had failed!
