https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6574102-heist-society
Life would be sweet!This is the kind of bad guy that Ally Carter TRIES to create in Heist Society and her failure to really do so is the only let down to what is otherwise a very fun, enjoyable novel to read.So, Katarina Bishop is a fifteen year old who comes from a family of theives.I suppose for about fifteen seconds I found the premise of this novel ridiculous before I recalled that The Fox sisters started when they were 10 and 12 and that Frank Abagnale had collected $40,000 from various New York banks around the same time my little brother learned he could tap his head AND rub his tummy in unison.
But for us, it’s as dry as the desert and feels more like a building up book than a real story.You know what I’m talking about.
I know Ally Carter truly wrote this book because only she can use sass in such a smart way.
Ironically, a ton of people recommended this one to me when they witnessed my love for The Gallagher Girls – and I understand it, but I also kind of wish they hadn’t hyped me so much about this series, causing me to buy all three books on the spot.I will read the sequel, but I will manage my expectations.
Also posted on STRANGEMORE.COM. Who is in the Heist Society?  * One of them is a mini Sydney-Bristow-in-training, whose family has been falsely accused, and she's armed with a big attitude and huge problems. * Then there is the handsome and debonair millionaire thief who compares dancing to navigating through a laser grid. * There is also the beauty who is literally electrifying in high heels and a skirt. At least, when she gets too close to priceless works of art. * Two of them are the ones who
Also posted on STRANGEMORE.COM.
Who is in the Heist Society?
* Two of them are the ones who've been blacklisted for stealing from a nun.
They are the teeny-bopper versions of Ocean's Eleven, but with less crew members and an even bigger job.They are also the ones who take on the biggest heist job in the world.
Their story isn't heart-wrenching or gut-churning, but it's fast, fun, and full of intrigue.I feel like I should tell you more, but the first rule of Heist Society is that you don't...
Well, if you don't already know, then I probably shouldn't tell you.
I love it when you get excited when seeing a book you never heard of before, and then while reading, it turns out to be fantastic, instead of the opposite.
I wont wait to read them.I can see this series becoming my new YA favorite.
It wasn't predictable, which actually, the ending took me by surprise in a number of ways.
I really enjoyed the writing, because Carter used enough details to high-light certain things and relationships without losing the focus of the whole story, but giving enough to keep the reader intrigued and wondering.
For me, I loved everything about this book.
Listen to my Heist Society fanmix in 8tracks and see the tracklist here.Actual Rating: 4.5 starsThis book is everything I wanted and more.Heist Society has the same international thrill as The Conspiracy of Us which is one of my favorite reads this year. And it went delightfully well. I might be crying tears of blood. Please give me twenty. Mini review to come.
This would have given this story a lot more credibility and brought a whole ‘nother layer to the book in general.You know, when the character decided to diss some of the grandest museums dedicated to art in the world, I was really pissed.
Yeah, it is a lucrative business because of how much money they are worth and could possibly make in the black market, but after the heist of the Isabella Stewart Gardner museum, security and precautions have been stepped way up so it’s not as easy as it was before.The only real reason I did not cut up this book more because of the relationship between Kat and Hale.
"Never live anyplace you can't walk away from. Never own anything you can't leave behind. These were the laws of Kat's life- of Kat's world." The book is about 15 yr old Katherine and her family business is Burglary. The book promises a fun read with a bit of action and a little bit of mystery. The book does deliver on it's promise. I wanted to read something light after some of the intense reads and this book did refresh my mind. Kat has 2 weeks to perform a job to get her dad out of trouble.
The book promises a fun read with a bit of action and a little bit of mystery.
The book does deliver on it's promise.
Kat has 2 weeks to perform a job to get her dad out of trouble.
In 2 weeks Kat needs to form a crew and come up with a foolproof plan.
All I can say is I really enjoyed reading about the plan and it's final execution.
The book has a very Oceans 11 feel to it but with a teenage crew.Recommended to all who want a light fun read with a little bit of mystery and action.
I couldn't really connect to any of the characters because I hardly got to know them.
Katarina, Hale, Gabrielle, Simon, Nick, and a couple others.The "villain" is Arturo Taccone.
He barely gave this 16-year-old and her friends time to steal more than two highly guarded paintings.That's not all!Despite Katarina explaining to Arturo how she absolutely couldn't succeed in such a short time period, She and her friends succeed.
The book would have been soooooo much better without it!The only character I liked was Katarina's cousin Gabrielle because she was pretty awesome!I know that a lot of people enjoyed this one, and I did as well to a certain extent.
3.5 starsI seriously needed this in my life. This was so fun, cute and perfect to relax myself after a tough week of non - stopping exams. I love Ally's writing style and her characters, she makes a great atmosphere and makes you laugh so much. This reminded me a lot of Secret Society Girl series, which I love, but in a YA world. Also, hello there Hale. The characters are are extremely cute and interesting and it was so fun to go on this adventure with them!
You are constantly wondering who the mystery thief is, their connection to Kat if their is one, and just how the hell they are pulling off their heists!
This is definitely going onto my re-readable shelf and I can only cross my fingers and hope that there will be a sequel as I still have some unanswered questions, and totally want to read more about Kat, Hale, and their adventures.
*****Wow, right after I finish reading this book 5 pieces of artwork are stolen from the Paris Museum of Modern Art. So sad!http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/20...*****It's been optioned as a movie!
Descended from a long line of skilled con men and educated by her own father, Kat knows every trick in the book.
He just wants his property back, and to give it back to him, Kat and her friends have to steal them from a place no one has ever broken into – the Henley museum in London.I’m not sure why I waited so long to read Heist Society – it’s exactly the kind of book I usually can’t resist – light, fast and utterly unputdownable.
(Scroll down for full review)Re-read review: Good gravy, Ally Carter is a magician!!!
I have a thing for superheroes, and the next best thing to superheroes are spies and other epically awesome people.Thieves, though?
I need more of this series, and also more of Ally Carter's other books.
I'm hoping to get my hands on the Gallagher Girls series soon...My only content notes would be that this is a secular book, so there are some comments made about females that are inappropriate.
(view spoiler)[Several of the guys make inappropriate comments about Kat when she's wearing an outfit designed by Gabrielle, that is probably something Gabrielle would wear.
I like the idea of it more than I like the book per se.The main character is a ninny.
Like, tasteless kind of wafer flat.
All the other characters were the ice-cream and chocolate sauce to cover up her extreme flatness.
She has no personality once you take away her endless worrying and that killed the story for me endlessly.
I never got those clues and I valiantly finished this book out of loyalty for my liking of the other characters.
Even they could have used a bit of oomph.The main villain turned out to be not scary at all.
“pretend and it will be true.”  heist society wasn't bad, by all means. in fact, it was actually better than i expected. this is more of a middle-grade type of book, and aside from the mystery tag, i wouldn't have picked it up. but alas, i did, so here we go.katarina bishop is fifteen years old. fifteen. it certainly didn't seem like it. like just a glance at a cover ( and that model is hot damn [ yes i'm not straight hoemygod when did you find out ] ), i would think she's about twenty? years o
it would've made the threat of arturdo taccone bigger if a strong character like kat was scared of him?
just like forget me, yeah sure, it's a -300 page book, but it doesn't mean that you can just lower the page count AND the quality of the entire plot.
especially with mystery book, if your entire plot stretches out over a month(?) period, it's really short if it's only ~280 pages.
so why were they so easy to figure out?regular fifteen year olds don't look perfect.
she's old enough that her period is regular!
etc but since there are two more books (and possibly more?) this may occur later, so fingers crossed!I figured out one of the twists (view spoiler)[Nick being not-so-honest because why would a random dude decide to do a heist if there was nothing in it for him (the others are Kat's family so I understand their motives to help her bloodline) and I very much doubt that he'd have done it just for the sake of experience (hide spoiler)] but other than that this book was entertaining and SUPER DUPER SHIPPY!!!!!
Review when I first read this book, September 2011: 3 Stars.
I really liked the story line, and I can't wait to read the second book!The only thing I wish was different about this book, is the main character, Kat. I like her, but I feel like I didn't know enough about her.
I found myself wanting to know more about her personality, or her past.With that aside, I loved just about everything else.
I really enjoyed this book, and would recommend this to anyone looking for a quick, yet interesting and thrilling book.UPDATED REVIEW January 2016: Still a 3 star book for me.
I will definitely be continuing with the second book soon.
Heist Society is the first book of the Heist Society series.
it was confusing to say the least.
Now I'm not saying the entire book was confusing..
No, it was interesting, boring, confusing, and then back to being interesting.
It was a whirlwind of an emotional roller coaster while reading this book.
She wasn't spectacular or anything outside of other MC's I've read about.
Besides her, the other characters were meh to me.
I like having some sort of connection with any character in a book..
but the ones in this one were just annoying and frustrating.Overall, it was an okay book.
i've been meaning to read this for YEARS (like eight years) and i finally got around to listening to the audiobook. it reminded me so much of How to Steal a Million and i loved how fun it was. the characters, romance, and action were all solid; now i need to read the sequel!
It was fun and fast paced and I loved every minute of it.Kat is a 15 year old retired thief or was until she was forced to get back in the family business in order to save her Dad. Her father has been set up, accused of stealing paintings from a mobster type of guy that lead to some very dangerous consequences.
But this is the biggest and most dangerous heist of Kat's life.Carter has written a well thought out plot.
Although further down the series I am sure I am going to begging for Carter to make something happen.
3.5 Stars After a period of not reading, this was the perfect book to get back into things. It was super easy to read and quite intriguing.At the same time, I had to keep reminding myself why I cared. These characters were fun and did their job, but I wasn't as attached to them as I would have liked.I went into this knowing absolutely nothing about it, besides the fact that it was written by the author of   Gallagher Girls  which is one of my favourite series ever.This one didn't quite compare.
3.5 Stars After a period of not reading, this was the perfect book to get back into things.
It was super easy to read and quite intriguing.At the same time, I had to keep reminding myself why I cared.
These characters were fun and did their job, but I wasn't as attached to them as I would have liked.I went into this knowing absolutely nothing about it, besides the fact that it was written by the author of   Gallagher Girls   which is one of my favourite series ever.This one didn't quite compare.
It felt lacking, yet I don't exactly know why.Nonetheless, I'm excited to read the remainder of the series, and I'm hoping it will improve!
Her dad is currently under surveillance by Interpol (a result of the job he was actually pulling on the night the paintings were stolen), so that leaves Kat to discover who pulled the art heist and get the mobster's paintings back before he starts hurting the people she loves.
One of the best parts of this book is how Carter weaved some history into the art heist when Kat "meets" Mr. Romani, who is working diligently to recover artwork stolen by the Nazis.
Hopefully in future books, readers will be able to learn more about Kat's parents and perhaps how the family started stealing in the first place.
Let me ask you one thing, what kind of sixteen year old kids were you back then?
My big and only problem with this book is how a couple of sixteen year old kids manage to do extraordinary things despite not being this a fantasy book?
The kind of book you can read on a sunny afternoon.
I loved the narrative POV.
There wasn't unnecessary lame romance, all the characters were captivating, the two brothers reminded me of  George and Fred, Simon was so cute and the beautiful cousin is spin-off material, all the way.The bad guy?
When I was in middle school I read a few books by Ally Carter and I thought it was about time I revisited her writing.
So I wanted to read about the measures that it would take to pull off a heist like that in today's world, and that is exactly the story Ally Carter provides here.
Heist Society also sets the scene as an opener for a potentially great series about professional thieves.
It was nice to revisit an old author of mine and Heist Society was a fast, fun read.

4.5 stars!I love heist movies so I guess it's not much of a surprised that I really enjoyed this book!! I loved the countdown pages and how this book made me feel like I've traveled the world as part of their team haa. There were some scenes that I wished I could have seen since I had trouble visualizing some of the details of their heist even with the descriptive narrative. The characters were all fantastic and hilarious. The crew dynamic was my favorite!Full review to come!
Oh, Kat. You are sneaky.
OK. At this point, I don't know where i left the book. But the book seemed promesing.
I thought that the writing was trying too hard, Kat was unreadable and/or boring, and the billionaire teenagers with a plethora of skills (they're mastermind thieves and know how to smolder!) were completely unrealistic.
Although Kat did not know it at the time, what she did next would lead to one of the most important - and dangerous - events of her life!
I think of this as a more plot-centered book anyway, so I doubt it was ever on Carter's priority list to give the reader a deep and heartbreaking look at Kat's psyche or anything like that.
It is, though, totally awesome to read/watch.
It’s actually my first time reading a heist like this (though I watch them a lot), so I ended up rating it the 4 because I loved that kids could be so awesome and get away with it.
What are we, the readers, not being told?The rest of the characters were awesome, if not a tiny bit cliché.
Hale (the totally “awesome” dude, and love-interest) was all cool-calm-and-collected 99% of the time.
I had a good time reading it (one afternoon snack, peoples!) and it played out like a movie in my head.
Some of it reminded me of Adult Fiction author Jeffrey Archer's style, who writes cleverly with foreshadowing and double-crossing and characters who spark with wit and high IQ's...Conclusion: I gave it three and a half stars.
Me & my ratings, it's a complex thing...It's definitely got the making of a 5 star book, plot so brilliant, writing so unique and intriguing.
It's not a fave b/c I mostly love character driven books, and this is is mostly plot.
However, I'll be reading more of Ally Carter for sure as she has talent (like, whoah) and I think this book brings something unique to the YA scene.
