https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/350869.Never_Come_Morning
It's not the romanticized view of rags to riches prostitution featured in the 2018 Chicago production of Pretty Woman, let's just say.This book seems less about plot than characters in desperate and convincing peril.
And it's also an exercise in atmosphere, tone, and unsentimental descriptions of Chicago poverty, centering on Bicek's jail time and the House of Prostitution.
This according to reputation is maybe his fourth best book, an early effort, but I wanted to read it for my clas because it is about young people, principally Steffi and Bruno/Bunny, and what happens to them in their teen, growing up, years.
A gritty look at the underside of mid-2oth century Chicago. Algren was a talented writer.
My favorite book ever written about Chicago. Maybe the most brutal book ever read either.
But perhaps the one event in those years to have the greatest single effect on Algren starting to write again would be the 1940 publication of Native Son, the literary debut of another young Chicago author (and now New Yorker) who was one of Algren's best friends at the time, civil-rights pioneer and fellow conflicted communist sympathizer Richard Wright.Essentially the same kind of story as Algren's own debut Boots but from a black perspective, and with a complicated series of details tying the two manuscripts together (for example, the fact that "Native Son" was supposed to have been the title of Algren's book, stolen with permission by Wright after Algren's publisher nixed it), it was Wright's novel that turned into the precise controversial bestseller that everyone had expected Boots to be, not only selling an astounding quarter-million copies in just its first six months, and getting adapted into a high-profile play by Orson Welles, but inspiring declarations nationwide of Wright being the "American Dostoevsky," and singlehandedly kickstarting the entire genre now known as African-American literature.
I will write more about it after I have time to reflect more, but it ended perfectly.Edit - After months, perhaps I can express my opinions on this novel:Basically, if you are looking for a beautiful story about Polish American's living in Chicago that makes the reader feel optimistic about society, do not read this book.
If you want a gritty, realistic, noir like compendium of the disastrous sprawling Ukrainian Village area of Chicago and the issues between immigrants from Poland and the police, then read this book.The author writes wonderful, but terrible, characters.
It seems, at times, to be a character and setting study rather than a novel, but it is still excellent.
At one point late in the book, through a bloody tooth-spitting haze, shortly before the police take him away for murder, which means he won't be able to rescue his girl who he turned into a prostitute, our main character sees CHICAGO in bold letters on the back of someone's jacket.
I guess that sums it up.
Algren writes from a place of deep compassion, but constantly challenges his reader to feel for these characters, who are as flawed and ignorant and terrible as....
people.
It's more than just a downer, but damn if I didn't feel down.
I loved this book. I have no idea why Algren isn't as famous as Hemingway. His prose is as heartbreakingly gorgeous and well-constructed.
Incredible book- Bicek's life in Chicago as a down and out boxer was really inspiring to me. I want to reread it. I read this when I was in high school.
I read this for book group.
Can't say that I'll read anything else by this author.The main characters are young people in West Chicago in around the 1940's.
In this group there are no redeemable characters.
The women are used and only maintain value if they are protected by these weak men.
The men are weak, so they end up considered valueless.It was a grueling read, but I did get some out of it.
Chicago is notorious for beaten confessions and this gave some insight to the history.
Yet, I had little use for his descriptions of prostitution--I just didn't trust that he would have much insight.
This is a brilliant study of hope in a hopeless neighborhood. It's about teenagers who have no real choices making bad decisions, and then worse decisions, based on pride, fear, guilt and the belief that they'll never escape. It isn't warm and fuzzy. It is real.
Incredible piece of work. The humanity and the voices of the poor in a world of suffering. The callousness that a life can bring out in us all and yet the hunted still hope.
Yet another stunningly beautiful novel by Algren. He writes about the underbelly of society like Fitzgerald writes about the upper crust.
A bit of a tough read: Within three-months the seventeen year-old protagonist has committed at least one murder, maybe two and allowed his girlfriend to be gang-raped by his "buddies" and taken off to be the prisoner of a brothel and the kept woman of the sleazy neighborhood Boss.
It deals with a gang of Polish toughs growing up dirt poor on the North side of Chicago in the early1940's.
Stanley Ketchel was a Polish prize fighter, middleweight champion, who was murdered over a girl in the early 1910s.
Great chronicle of the down and dirty elements of Chicago around midcentury, I've enjoyed all the Algren books I've read.
I figured that if the novel was nearly as honest, tough, unforgiving, and noir as the photograph of Algren smoking, I would enjoy the read.
He writes like Hemingway (who noted this as being “The best book to come out of Chicago”) in that he will not tell you how to feel, but leave you with this terribly complicated idea stated as simply as possible.
In providing this context for the novel, I think I am doing Algren a disservice.
If Algren, forgotten, is the pennywhistle of American literature, Never Come Morning is his concerto, making heard the tragic hopes and voices of the downtrodden.
This book was okay.
It was noted by the author in a new preface for this edition that the book was banned from the Chicago Public Library for around 20 years because the Polish community was offended by the characters that were portrayed in the story.
It’s very likely that’s how it was back then and those that were protesting were just trying to hide the reality.
They accused the author of being in league with the Germans and traitorous Poles (the book was released in 1941) and all the protests were occurring while the author was over in Italy fighting in WWII will his fellow American soldiers.
It took me a while to read this book due to other life distractions, but in the couple hours where I could sit down and read it, I was hooked.
What struck me most was the dialogue; Algren brings to life the Chicago accent and dialect beautifully.
Since my family all comes from the Southside, and I spent most of my childhood enamored with those neighborhoods, even the time barrier seemed insignificant as I read the descriptions of Oak Street Beach and the 'av'noo.' Good stuff.
One of those books I hope to return to a couple of years from now and appreciate even more.
Published by Seven Stories Press, introduction written by Kurt Vonnegut, endorsed by both Richard Wright and Ernest Hemingway . . . what more do you need to proceed? If you're searching for the apex of American urban realism, look no further. Algren has it in spades. A writer of true power and compassion who, throughout his career, shined a light on the humanity of the downtrodden despite actions that would seem to communicate otherwise. Because of this, Algren's writing will always have a certain relevancy to our times.
Algren's first novel is less ethereal than the other stuff of his that I've read, with what is (in my opinion) more of a concrete, linear, novel-like story, but with just enough of his poignant lyricism to keep me looking up from the book every few pages just to stare into the distance and say "Fuuuuuuuuck" to myself.
One of the best books around. Algren has a way of discribing his characters' actions and surroundings in such a realistic and tantelizing way, one has to read it to understand. If you like Polish immigrants in America, Chicago, boxing, & a damned good story, pick this one up.
writing shows a true, unadorned understanding of the subject and the lives and society he is depicting. Nothing Didactic about it, unsettling and grim, but that's how it is, its not written for a calculated shock--that's key.
Poor Lefty made all the wrong decisions in life. This is a stark view of what life might have been like for a Polish immigrant in the late 30s. I'd classify it as a tragedy, but an interesting historically based story.
Not Algren's best but still Algren. What I mean to say is that the story wasn't the best story I ever read but Algren's style, the dialogue, the prose, the pacing are all as good as any of his other books. I just thought the story itself was... Eh.
Normally it doesn't take me long to become interested in a novel, but for some reason that never happened. I was bored. Even though I live in Chicago, I found myself never connecting with any scenes, characters, etc.
More great Algren stuff
Onvan : Never Come Morning - Nevisande : Nelson Algren - ISBN : 1583222790 - ISBN13 : 9781583222799 - Dar 310 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 1941
Poor people in Chicago. Funny way of talkin' and great dialogs.
I wish I had written this book.
Did Sylvester Stallone read this before writing Rocky? There are some strange similarities between the two stories.
Gritty.
