https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64492.Fires_on_the_Plain
This book illustrates a point that every combat veteran knows: war can kill your soul but leave your body alive. One of the best books on war I have ever read.
A Note on the Author--Fires on the Plain
Why don't presidents fight the war?Why do they always send the poor?-B.Y.O.B, System of A Downইতিহাস লেখা হয় বিজয়ীর কলমে। বিজিত সে ইতিহাসে নেহাৎ-ই অচছুৎ। মানবসভযতার ইতিহাসে ঘটে যাওয়া সব যুদধের যত বিবরণী আমরা পড়ি, তার বেশীরভাগটা ভীষণ একপেশেই বটে। আমরা ইতিহাসে পাই বিজয়ীর বীরতবগাঁথা আর তযাগের গলপ; পাই তার কষটের বিবরণী। নিউটনের তৃতীয় সূতর মানলে বিজয়ী যতটা মার দেন, বিজিতকে তো সেই পরিমাণ মারই খেতে হয়। তবুও আমরা পরাজিতদের গলপ শুনতে চাইনা বেশী একটা। হারু পারটির পরতি আমাদের অত সহানুভূতি নেই, বিশেষত সে প

In our own country, even in the most distant or inacessible part, this feeling of strangeness never comes to us, because subconciously we know that there is always a possibility of our returning there in the future.
Does not our entire life-feeling depend upon this inherent assumption that we can repeat indefinitely what we are doing at the moment?" This right here.
I must make no mistake...." Fires on the Plain is one of those relationship feelings like you try to convince yourself you are over someone and you aren't.
Private Tamura is one of these soldiers left to fend for himself, unable to return to his unit and unable to “pay” for treatment at the army hospital.
Private Tamura is left to wander Leyte Island with neither a reason to live nor a reason to die.
The instinct to survive is a powerful pull that lead Tamura to commit a cardinal sin against humanity.Ooka's account of a starving Japanese soldiers' attempt to rationalize and come to terms with the horrors of war that are all around him is both powerful and poetic.
What I found most interesting in the book is the portrayal of the social degradation the protagonist goes through due to the circumstances of the war.
After this encounter his social degradation becomes more obvious because he begins to lose his sense of self which is greatly determined by his social position.
In the absence of others there is no social position or map that he can rely on to hold on to thus losing his identity.
When it came down to cannibalism Tamura had already lost of sense of his social self and was concerned only with surviving.
It is a marvel how our intuition leads us to engage in the process of transmuting our own internal strife through experiencing similar circumstances in our external world.
So what, as a conscious person would ask, is in my own life "starving"?Ooka's book is a terrible descent into hell, but lucid for the most part so as to not spare us its horror.
The deserted church, site of a massacre, is this not a central metaphor for the entire book?
To me the book is saying that in absence of God, man will do the most monstrous and deplorable acts against his fellow man and himself.
A very interesting book - some passage of deep beauty, others of some obscurity. It is hard to tell what the book would be like in Japanese. I have a deep mistrust of reading anything in translation (though I am reading a great deal of translation at this point in my life).
Recently, I've decided to read less historical books on war and more literature books, specially non-western ones in other to attain a greater scope of the general feeling of life within the front, implying that every soldier suffers while experiencing it.
Although being written by a Japanese French scholar, with lots of Western and Christian knowledge, this Japanese book has definitely startled me.
The story is quite simple being basically the comings and goings of a Japanese serviceman, Tamura, in the Philippines during a Japanese occupation of Leyte Island, who, hectic, is struggling to survive an American offensive after being dismissed by his regiment.
In college, I wrote a paper on the role of colors in the book. I can't even begin to tell you how many times I've read it since then, and how much I wish everybody would read it so we could discuss it, like, weekly. And write papers on it. It's kind of like a J-lit "Apocalypse Now." After you finish this book, you might be a vegetarian for a few weeks or more.
a funny little story about the degradation of man.
probably the most abstract war novel i've ever read. this book is fucking wild.
This was one of the first Japanese novels to make a splash in the West, hot on the heels of the mass portrayal of the Japanese Army as a gang of bloodthirsty, merciless Orientals.
But instead, we have the story of an individual soldier who, isolated as the war winds down, and as the Japanese retreat across the Philippines, he is left alone on the island of Leyte.
It's both violent and dreamlike, a difficult and rare combination, and it gets deep under your skin.
If you need an antidote to any of the usual war novels, this is the one.
This edition started with a lengthy introduction by the translator, Ivan Morris, which revealed much of the story's content.
I recommend not reading the introduction until after reading the book.
More like the earth and the sky, one reaching down to hell the other up to heaven..In that the story is told from a Christian perspective, I found it scintillating.
There is a real empathy which build with Tamura as the story goes along, leaving the reader with the same dilemma of how to relate to the "moral".
I found myself wanting to show the truth of Christ to Tamura, seeing that he has not a full understanding.
Since a few years ago, I had read this 36-chapter book “Fires on the Plain” by Shohei Ooka and perhaps forgot to write a review, the former copy being returned to the DASA BookCafe.
I found it gloomily entertaining due to various horror-crushing episodes of wartime hardships in the Philippines as narrated by Private Tamura based on the author’s service in 1945.
Arguably taken as an anti-war novel set on the Leyte island during World War II, its dialogs and descriptions have effectively portrayed such cruelty, degradation and isolation to a man in time of war.
"La enfermedad, cuando se ha perdido toda la esperanza de cura, también pierde su importancia.""Hogueras en la llanura", contrariamente a mis expectativas, es más bien una fábula sobre un soldado raso que, una vez abandonado por una tropa derrotada, se enfrenta a la desesperación, la más profunda soledad, la hambruna y la locura.
Si no fuera por haber caído en la trampa de leer el prólogo al inicio, diría que el punto de inflexión llega con el capítulo 28 ("Un hambriento y un loco").
No obstante, quizá la espera sea demasiado larga.
Aun así el tema central de la novela, soterrado bajo la sombra de años de historia, no deja de suscitar un debate importante sobre la naturaleza humana.
I read this book as a teen-ager. The message I got from the book was that if you want something done . . . do it yourself. That maybe the wrong message but it was a page turner. The story is about a Japanese soldier serving on the island of Leyte in the Philippines during WWII. It is basically the story of one man to fight the battle of survival, alone, in the face of overwhelming odds and events against him. It's a Japanese classic that applies to everyone, anywhere.
Powerful, brutal depiction of life in the losing side of an invading army, the Japanese on the island of Leyte in the Philippines, as they are pushed back by the Americans. It never really occurred to me that your own side could turn against you, and that there are some number of unwanted soldiers in the heat of battle who exist in limbo, in between armies. This book is hard core.
I'm a sucker for this dark Japanese, existential stuff but this was really good. At least up until near the end, when it bogged down in the madness, quasi-Christian babbling, monkey eating which turns out to be cannibalism, possible admissions of self-cannibalism etc etc. But the first half of the story is a tale well told.
Thats the edge of insanity and despair brought upon by the war. It is immensely surprising to the extent a human soul endures and live to keep struggling than giving up. Not an easy or pleasant read but Fires on the plain is distinct in its reverberations of war, suffering and human emotions.
You will feel as if you yourself are straying in the tropical thick forest with a young Japanese soldier in the WWII.
The book is good and worth reading but Kon Ichikawa's movie is even better, one of those occasions were the movie version is better than the book, "it adds to it".
lol never go to war
The most physically revolting novel I have read
For Private Tamura, the narrator and protagonist of this novel, the story starts with being yelled at and slapped in the face by his commanding officer.
In either or any other case, this novel is not only as psychologically convincing as any Dostoevsky, but also - and of course exactly because of that - truly and rarely dark.
On top of that, as extreme as both his circumstances and behaviors are, Private Tamura is an instantly relatable and recognizably human character.
Which makes the novel even more impressive, as soldiers of the the Imperial Japanese Army are known for a lot of things in the West, but not their relatability.
أحببت وصف الطبيعة في هذه المذكرات الجميلة التي لم تُشعرني بصمتها قطأحسست بمشاركة صديقي تامورا لدربه في حرب مانيلا القاسية والتي رغم بَأسها وبؤسها لم يتوقف عن الشعور بتناغم الغابات من حوله والتفكر في طبيعة الحياة ومدى تناقض الانسان النفسي حتى في أشدّ الظروف التي من الممكن ان يتعرض لها
In this hauntingly beautiful and disturbing novel set in the Philippines during World War II, a young Japanese soldier named Tamura is suffering from tuberculosis and is dismissed from his company with the instructions to commit suicide by grenade if he cannot get admitted to a military hospital.
The hospital Tamura visits is crowded, low on supplies, and cannot admit any patients unless they bring food as payment.
Joining diseased and injured outcasts the hospital has dismissed, Tamura sits amongst the men and shares in their misery as they await death.
Ooka was a Japanese POW, captured by the Americans in the Philippines in the closing days of World War II. This novel builds on his experiences in the weeks leading up to his capture. It is haunting and one of the most gruesome books I've ever read.
The Japanese point of view of WWII is never going to be pretty, but damn. Still, I made my way through this book pretty quickly.
The madness of war where all is clearly lost, all the rules that govern an army have broken down, and soldiers become armies of one who aspire to nothing more than day to day survival at any cost.
He is clearly ill and his unit with barely enough food to survive see him as a drag on their resources.
Here are the horrors of war laid bare and their psychic toll on its soldiers.
Ooka reminds us that in war death occurs not only on the battlefields but in the souls of the men who kill.
