https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3871525-the-ringer
I like the dynamics between the characters,and how the authors managed to create relationships between them through their conversations, instead of focusing on their actions or choises.The mystery is also very interesting:" The ringer" is a very dark and gloomy figure and we don't get to see him at the beginning; this makes him extremely secretive : you know that he existes,he's close to the characters and he could be able to commit terrible crimes,but you can't expect what he's doing.
This book has a problem - that problem is the characters.
They are so likable, and yet they are the stupidest creatures to adorn a book page.
Especially the pathetic heroine of the story.
If ever there was a literary picture of a dumb blond, this girl is it.
I can tell this book was written almost a century ago.
I still got the murderer wrong, which was good, but the characters were unnecessarily naive.
And here, as in many other older books, I miss the afterword which has become so common in modern writing.
And yet I appreciate the short books of older days...
حسناً بما أنني قرأتها مترجمة ، سأكتب رأيي عنها بالعربي أيضاً.قرأتها وأنا صغيرة لا أكاد أبلغ الثانية عشر أو من هذا القبيل ، وأتذكر بأنني أحببتها كثيرًا فلقد كنت مولعةً بقصص الغموض ، وأهداني إياها أخي لعلها تنال أعجابي .أتذكر كيف أحببتها وقبل أن أعيد قرأتها تذكرت بأنني أعتقد بأن نهايتها مدهشة رغم أنها أصبحت مبهمة بعد كل هذه السنين .كانت قراءة سريعة ، فلقد كانت لا تتجاوز 152 صفحة .أحببت الترجمة وكرهتها في ذات الوقت ، ولم أعلم إن كان هذا الحال ذاته للكتاب بلغته الأصلية ، لأنني حين قرأتها للمرة الثانية بعقلي الأكبر سناً .
Parmak İzi, Altınpost Yayınlarının ortaya koyduğu facia dışında genel olarak iyiydi, okumazsanız hiçbir şey kaybetmeyeceğiniz kitaplardan. Ben puanımı yayınevinin baskısından bağımsız veriyorum, sonuçta bu yazarın suçu değil. Bir daha da bu yayınevinden kitap okumak istemiyorum, her kitapta hatalar olur ancak bu kitaptaki hata değil özensizlikti. Ayrıntılı yorum için; http://yorumatolyesi.blogspot.com/201...
For me, there was too much rather corny love interest and not enough Ringer. It got a bit more interesting towards the end but overall rather disappointing. I would have given it two and a half stars if I could but It's better than two.
Scorrevole si, ma alquanto insignificante.La storia ha degli strani sviluppi e si basa su improbabili intuizioni dei personaggi.Molti filoni aperti restano poi incompiuti.Finale interessante e non scontato, devo ammetterlo, ma per il resto niente di interessante.
Vor 40 Jahren hatte es mir besser gefallen. Jemand muss es inzwischen heimlich aus meinem Regal genommen und umgeschrieben haben.
A highly entertaining read, fast moving and totally over the top
A.L. Burt, 1925
Loved this book when I was eleven.
An excellent Wallace whodunit based on one his own plays, but it doesn't show. Fast moving, unlikely and great fun.
