https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2287.Other_Voices_Other_Rooms
As perplexing as it is captivating, Other Voices, Other Rooms is Capote's hallucinatory literary début, a Southern Gothic bildungsroman based partially on its writer's experience of growing up gay in rural Alabama.
The novel wavers between the surreal and the familiar, the obvious and the mystifying; all the while, Capote's ornate language and labyrinthine syntax entrance his reader, inviting them to dwell in a consistently disturbing setting.
As a kind of subversion of the coming-of-age novel, though, neither the story nor the protagonist's character arc are all that important: Joel doesn't change over the course of the narrative so much as he changes how he feels about what he already is at its start.
Sometimes childhood can be seen in a Gothic light.The windows of the house are cracked and shattered, hollow as eyeless sockets; a rotted balcony leans perilously forward, and yellow sunflower birds hide their nests in its secret places; the scaling outer walls are ragged with torn, weather-faded posters that flutter when there is a wind.
Among the town kids it is a sign of great valor to enter these black rooms after dark and signal with a match-flame from a window on the topmost floor.Although Other Voices, Other Rooms doesn’t feature anything supernatural or otherworldly it boasts an enchantingly morose Gothic attitude.It was at this point that he saw the queer lady.
Harper Lee's character called Dill was based on Truman as a boy and Capote's Idabel Thompkins in this book was based on the tomboyish Harper Lee when she was a young girl.
Prior to that meeting he had high expectations on what his life would be with his father even writing rosy pictures to his friend back in New Orleans.My favorite scene is one of those first few encounters of Joel Knox (Capote) and Idabel Thompkins (Harper Lee).
Only how, how, could you say something so indefinite, so meaningless as this: God, let me be loved.""...so few of us learn that love is tenderness, and tenderness is not, as a fair proportion suspect, pity; and still fewer know that happiness in love is not the absolute focusing of all emotion in another: one has always to love a good many things which the beloved must come to symbolize; the true beloveds of this world are in their lover's eyes lilac opening, school bells, a landscape, remembered conversations, friends, a child's Sunday, lost voices, one's favorite suit, autumn and all it's seasons, memory, yes, it being the earth and water of existence, memory.""the brain may take advice, but not the heart, and love, having no geography, knows no boundaries: weight and sink it deep, no matter, it will rise and find the surface: and why not?
Other Voices, Other Rooms: Capote's Swamp Baroque Concerto in Three MovementsOther Voices, Other Rooms was an attempt to exorcise demons, an unconscious, altogether intuitive attempt, for I was not aware, except for a few incidents and descriptions, of its being in any serious degree autobiographical. Rereading it now, I find such self-deception unpardonable.--Truman Capote, The Dogs Bark, New York, Random House, 1973 First Edition Having just re-read To Kill a Mockingbird by Harper Lee, I retur
First Edition Having just re-read To Kill a Mockingbird by Harper Lee, I returned to Other Voices, Other Rooms by Truman Capote, her childhood friend.
While staying with relatives in New Orleans, Joel is shocked to receive a letter in spidery red ink on green stationery from his father, along with funds to travel to his home in Scully's Landing near Noon City, Alabama.
Other Voices, Other Rooms is deeply introspective, exploring themes of the nature of love, isolation, and the search for family, which appears repeatedly in Capote's other works.Capote's debut novel burst on the literary scene in 1948.
During a recent re-read of To Kill a Mockingbird I learned that Harper Lee and Truman Capote were childhood friends and that each of them had based a character in their novels on each other.
(I didn't feel this way at all about the characters in Capote's second published novel, The Grass Harp.
I was much more impressed by the "realness" and believability of the characters in that novel.)I also think this novel suffers a bit from Truman Capote being a precocious 23 year old and trying a bit too hard to impress with bells and whistles in his language.
Truman Capote is currently my favorite writer. The poetic fashion in which he brings a novel to life is extraordinary and I hope he can continue to impress me. He introduces his characters in a perfect order, and they are people you want to know more about. The only drawback to this book, his first novel, is that he assumed I understood where he was going at every turn, and I didn’t. I wanted a big ending that made we want to start the book over from the beginning. I didn’t get it.
I suppose I considered it well written, and wanted to read everything Capote had done, as I really loved IN COLD BLOOD, and was fascinated by the little man with the squeaky voice that I saw on television.
Semi-autobiographical, it's a first novel from a 23 year old who simply wants to be loved for who and what he is.
He said himself that he wrote the novel to exorcise some demons.
Reading between the lines after knowing a little about his life, now makes this not just a novel from gifted author, but an explanation of the man he became in later years.One of the best characters, Idabell Thompkins, was based on the real life Harper Lee, a childhood friend.
Every word in its rightful place.Capote also has the gift that many writers lack and that is a descriptive prowess that completely surrounds the reader and engulfs them in the world of the text.
To be so completely lost in a work speaks highly of the writer's abilities!Another great strength of this text is how accurately it displays how a child left to his own devices has to create and interpret the world around him.
Joel's interpretations of the world are oftentimes not concrete, or even accurate, and this is where the adult reader will find themselves at moments confused.
“Other Voices, Other Rooms” by Truman CapoteBook Review by Jay GilbertsonThis is maybe the eighth, could be the ninth time I’ve read this amazing little novel and I know for certain I’ll read it again one day. Billed as Capote’s first, and in my opinion his best work, Other Voices, Other Rooms is truly an amazing piece of literature and still haunts me today.  The author took a classic coming-of-age theme and carefully, subtly and with fascinatingly flawed characters—ripped it to smithereens! Th
He is one of the more rare authors that compel the reader to constantly re-read certain passages not because they’re confusing but due to the incredible picture the author presents of thirteen-year-old, Joel Knox, on the brink of manhood.Give this a try:“…He lay there on a bed of cold pebbles, the cool water washing, rippling over him; he wished he were a leaf, like the current-carried leaves riding past: leaf-boy, he would float lightly away, float and fade into a river, an ocean, the world’s great flood.”	With the death of Joel’s mother early on in the story, he is sent off to live with his estranged father in a dilapidated old hotel that, like its occupants, is further sinking into disrepair.
Truman Capote's Other Voices, Other Rooms is more of a raising yourself through experiences and colored glasses- green, red, rose, purple, the whole over the rainbow spectrum- world views than coming of age.
We aren't always grown up in memories, anyway, despite that 20/20 hindsight some people supposedly have (it'd help to have Capote's 100% conversational recall).
I kinda did raise myself through movies and stories and stuff (probably still do), and I feel strong connections to characters, as if they were real people.
I'm grateful to Capote for writing this book that can relate to that feeling of being lost.
And for feeling like we're in together.
'In Cold Blood' is my only previous experience with the writing of Truman Capote.
And this story of young Joel Knox desperately seeking love and acceptance, and the disparity between his expectations of the reunion with his father and the reality of it, and the woe upon woe upon woe, were sad and dark for me.
Many of the supporting characters, and the house where Joel is sent to live, are downright creepy.
There's no question Truman Capote could write, and I plan to read 'The Grass Harp' and 'Breakfast At Tiffany's,' but goodness gracious, this was a strange read.
Il viaggio di un ragazzo che deve attraversare il guado cercando di far attenzione a distinguere bene il passaggio perchè quando si hanno dodici anni i limiti tra sogno e realtà si confondono facilmente.L'istinto è quello di fuggire ma in fondo Joel è consapevole che: "  qualora su ne fosse andato - come aveva fatto una volta - altre voci, altre stanze, voci perdute e fievoli, sarebbero echeggiate nei suoi sogni
Why is it that when I find a book worthy of five stars I'm at a loss for words, and can't write anything sensible about it?
Well, let's just say that I fell head over heels with Capote after this one.
One hundred percent more skill than his friend Harper Lee. The way Capote uses words is simple yet it creates a strong sense of place.
Eccentric characters, ambiguous sexuality, abandoned houses, weird stories told by even weirder people, suffocating sense of alienation, dream-like sequences and overall cigarette and brandy fumed melancholia.
Thirteen-year-old Joel Knox recently lost his mother and is living with his Aunt Ellen in New Orleans.
One day a letter from his father, who had not been heard from for twelve years, summons Joel to Skully’s Landing, Alabama to live with him .
Finally, a mule-drawn cart driven by Jesus Fever, a wizened 104-year-old black man who works for his father, shows up to drive Joel to The Landing.
He listened contented and untroubled to the remote singing-saw noise of night insects.”Sadly, this is likely the last time he will be contented and untroubled until the very end of the story of his first months at The Landing.
It wasn't until after seeing "Capote" (excellent film, by the by) that I got the itch to read something by the film's namesake.
In keeping with a Gothic tradition, however, Capote included some supernatural elements that actually felt really out of place.
It felt almost like Capote had written himself into a corner and had no other way of ending than to construct something so far out that the reader was baffled enough to believe it was deep and thought-provoking.
Pot afirma cu stupoare (peiorativ), că Truman Capote nu este unul din autorii moderni care impresionează. Cel puţin nu prin acest volum. Din punctul meu de vedere, nu-şi merită faima. Comparând opera lui cu cea a lui William Styron ori -mergând un strop înapoi- cu cea a lui Hemingway, Capote nu este o figura proeminentă a literaturii americane. Repet: nu prin acest roman.
Il viaggio del tredicenne Joel Harrison Knox verso un luogo sperduto nella campagna del profondo Sud degli Stati Uniti, per incontrare il padre che non conosce, è innanzi tutto la toccante vicenda di un adolescente assetato di affetti; insieme, però, è anche una rappresentazione paradigmatica del processo di crescita, ovvero dell’abbandono definitivo dell’ingenuità ovattata propria dell’infanzia per l’acquisizione dell’autonomia e di una fiera consapevolezza finalmente adulta.
Il protagonista, nel suo candore e nel suo sgomento, viene proiettato in un ambiente ignoto, imprevisto e sconcertante; una specie di non-luogo, lontano dalle consuetudini del mondo civilizzato e abitato da personaggi eccentrici e ambigui.
You know Truman Capote's famous quote about how he felt that he and Perry Smith grew up in the same house, and then one day he got up and walked out through the front door, while Perry left out the back?
Also, you know the unnecessary speculation that Capote actually wrote his friend Harper Lee's To Kill a Mockingbird?
I really enjoyed this book with its odd, closely observed detail and gothic, Southern, open claustrophobia.
Still, it kind of feels like this book and To Kill a Mockingbird incubated together, and if Lee's book shows the front door, this eccentricity is probably the back.
Exquisite. Beautiful. A masterpiece.
After his mother's death Joel Knox is summoned to the decaying Mississippi mansion Skully's Landing to meet the father who abandoned him and runs smack dab into a menagerie of odd characters namely an addled stepmother Amy, silk kimono dressed Uncle Randolph, barely alive bedridden father Mr. Samson, and the wild girl child Idabel who all exist in some kind of dreamlike narrative.
I understand this is supposed to be semi-autobiographical and that the character Idabel is supposedly based roughly on his childhood friend Harper Lee, but even those facts couldn't interest me in (or help me understand ) this story.
A GR friend Doug called this one Southern Gothic on steroids or mushrooms.
2 stars Read for May On The Southern Literary Trail
Tuttavia, non comprendo, per esempio, la scelta di rendere così grottesco e sgrammaticato il linguaggio di Zoo, o da vecchia madama quello di Florabel.
Nel testo originale non mi pare così marcato.
Sono stupita perché Bruno Tasso non è stato un traduttore qualsiasi.
“Have the backache and stomach jitters, but I ain’t deaf.” //"Io non son sorda, cocco" disse Zoo in tono sinceramente sollecito.
jus wanna ride with You!”//"Ehi, Signore!" (Un pestone.) "Ehi, Signore!" (Un pestone.) "Non ci voglio, no, viaggiare col demonio per compare!...
. .” //"Oh sì, certo, sì, senz'altro." Amy si mise a mugolare il motivo del Canto d'amore indiano: "Fa così: Quand'io ti chiamo tu...
Voglio chiudere così.
Truman Capote's first published novel, under contract to Bennett Cerf at Random House, was this OTHER VOICES, OTHER ROOMS (1948).
Again, skip it if you dislike spoilers: "Finally, Joel accepts his destiny, which is to be homosexual, to always hear other voices and live in other rooms.
Like Vidal's confessional work, Capote's novel is hardly carefree (Holly Golightly lay ten years in the future) but OTHER VOICES is engrossing, insightful, and speaks volumes about the author's concerns and his own sexual identity.
I recommend OTHER VOICES, OTHER ROOMS to anyone who has enjoyed Capote's other works.
І це був чудовий початок улюбленої пори.
"Інші голоси, інші кімнати" - четверта прочитана мною книжка автора.
Мене вона вразила і зачепила навіть більше за легендарну "З холодним серцем" - розслідування, з якого бере початок сучасна нон-фікшн література як така.
А тут...
Тут так само талановитий стиль, сповнений метафор та поезії.
Але й значно більше.
Так.
Молодечі (але не інфантильні) роздуми автора про сенс життя.
Це прекрасний твір, який називають романом, проте на мою думку, це радше повість.
Вона ж бо вже зробила на кілька кроків більше й віддалилася від мрійливого віку, в який вступає головний герой Джоел.
Capote based the character of Idabel on Harper Lee [which probably explains why I liked her character], in return she based one of her characters in ‘To Kill a Mocking Bird’ on him.Throughout this read, I took a particular disliking to Joel’s stepmother, Miss Amy, mainly because she said things like:“Just a hotbed of crazy nigger-notions, that girl.”“Her mouth worked in a furious way.
Later Capote said he was not aware, except for a few descriptions, that he had made the book so autobiographical.Berendt in the Introduction, also mentions that for Capote’s career his real life would go on to interest people more than his written works.
The writing at times is so effortless that it reminded me of Byron (a super high compliment), at other times so painstaking and thoughtful and descriptive that it reminded me of Conrad (another super high compliment).
The dialogue, the story, and the location reminded me of Faulkner (still another super high compliment) and finally the creative and imaginary vision reminded me of Twain (another super high compliment).
This is the book that you hand to an aspiring writer and simply remark, "If you ever want to know what great writing is, just read this book.
Before the drinking, the fame, the chaos, and the loss, Capote wrote this amazing novel about a boy's journey into manhood. This work ranks as one of the best with some amazing peripheral images. A strange classic not designed for the fandom crowd.
There’s no explanation, no talking, Joel walks in and sees this bedbound man in the bed and is told this is his father and this is the way things are.
It’s like we won’t talk about it, everyone knows it, and if you make me face it, I’m going to make it as unpleasant as possible.
What makes this book is the characters.The first time Joel meets Florabel and Idabel, it’s on the trip to the Landin’.
Εδώ έχουμε να κάνουμε με κάτι εντελώς διαφορετικό, όμως: Όχι με ένα μυθιστορηματικό χρονικό μιας αληθινής υπόθεσης, αλλά με μια γλυκόπικρη ιστορία ενηλικίωσης, που διαδραματίζεται στον μαγευτικό και συνάμα εφιαλτικό αμερικάνικο Νότο.
Ο Τζόελ θα πρέπει να αρχίσει να συνηθίζει την νέα του ζωή, θα καταλάβει πολλά πράγματα για τον κόσμο γύρω του, ενώ κάποια στιγμή θα γνωρίσει και ένα τρελό αγοροκόριτσο, την Άινταμπελ.
Αυτό είναι το πρώτο βιβλίο που έγραψε ο Τρούμαν Καπότε σε ηλικία εικοσιτεσσάρων ετών και κατά κάποιον τρόπο λειτουργεί και σαν μια αυτοβιογραφία για τα παιδικά του χρόνια.
2.5Once again, Capotes writing is masterful. Unfortunately, the quality of writing wasn't enough to merit a high rating. This story of a young man going home to meet his father among a group of eclectic characters had a lot of potential, but ultimately, the story went nowhere. I had the sense that Truman was leaning too hard on an artsy-fartsy style and the result was a book that failed to entertain me.
