https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37442.Wicked
As a result, the Scarecrow just appears with the others at the witch's castle, and even Elphaba can't figure out why the hell he's there)UPDATE: I didn't want to be a jerk about this, but I am forced to deliver the following public service announcement.ATTENTION POTENTIAL COMMENTERS: I appreciate the fact that you wish to take time out of your busy to day to offer explanations for some or all of the questions I posed above.
I have a confession: I wanted to read this book because I saw the Broadway show, and the idea of a Broadway show based on a book based on a movie based on a political satire intrigued me.
I don't want to be mean to the poor author (Gregory Maguire), who has made a fortune and franchise from this book and ones like it, but it's absolutely terrible.
embarrassingly bad.Oftentimes, I read a book and see ways I could never be a writer: the word choice, the cadence, the picture and world and emotions the author paints with language -- the distance between my ability to write a little song and, oh, Mozart.This book, however, had me thinking differently.
Don't spend that much time making the reader get to know the character and then change them without showing how and why!
I hated the way the author would spend enormous amounts of time describing certain places or characters or situations in a way that gave the reader the idea that it would be significant and play into the main story.
It was like the author was determined to present every possible political view he had and, one way or the other, force it into the story.
And as my love for the book Wicked and the Wicked Witch of the West grew, my hatred for George Lucas grew in direct proportion.
It could have really delved into the character of Darth Vader, or rather Anakin Skywalker and truly made him tragic.Instead of trying to fool the audience into liking Anakin by hiring cute kids and bad actors, George Lucas could have created an interesting character.
What Wicked does is take this evil, green and scary witch and turn her into a person we can like and love.
The food looks like it should be good—braised beef that seems savory, fresh-looking tomatoes to impart a robust flavor, colorful specks of herbs that hint of a certain deliciousness and make the tummy grumble.
So it’s a fresh shock to the system almost every time when it turns out to be nothing but a ruse.
Doesn’t it takes a special kind of talent to start with what appear to be such promising ingredients and to produce with them a dish as utterly bland and as pitifully uninspiring as that cafeteria food invariably turns out to be?Well, doesn’t it?
It allowed me, to look at people I had once considered enemies, and see they had human nature built into them long before they became my "enemies", they had feelings that led them to wherever they happen to be now.Many people might not find a cut and dry moral in this book, they may think it's dry, or that it fails to meet the standards of The Wizard of Oz. I'm not afraid at all to say this darlings...
Aside from names and places; Wicked, The Wizard of Oz movies, or Baum's Oz books really don't have much to do with eachother.
I love my physical edition of this novel...while the reading experience wasn't as good as always thought that it would be.  MANY SHADES OF GREEN A thing that I got amazed when I started to "label" this book, in the process of my review, in my virtual shelves of Goodreads was how many different genres the novel touches... Politics, Religion, Romance, Humor, Fantasy, Magic, Mystery and even Espionage.And I was very tempted to select Military too but I opted not.And certainly the mood and themes o
Politics, Religion, Romance, Humor, Fantasy, Magic, Mystery and even Espionage.And I was very tempted to select Military too but I opted not.And certainly the mood and themes of the story embraces all those genres and maybe more.I knew about this book series some years ago while I was researching about the topic of Oz in general and since then I thought that it could be good to read it.
Honestly I can't think in something cooler to make irresistible this edition.Those marvelous green edges on the pages of the book sold me the novel right away and I couldn't took back the book on the shelf.
There are many interesting and intriguing plotlines in the book, and you wait for them to be clerified, and expanded upon, but many never are.
the book doesnt even really give you the background you want on the witch.
The book is full of cool little interesting things that you swear will play a part..
the idea for the story is so cool, but the ideas are just so unorganized that it was truly a let down.
it is completely different from the book, but the story is much more thought out.
I should say that I loved the beginning of this book..
Dostoyevsky meets Frank Baum. This was not as much fun as Pride and Prejudice and Zombies maybe because it is more revisionist than mash-up, parody or spoof. This is actually, strangely a very mature work but set in Oz and from the perspective of Elpheba the wicked witch. But it was amusing, entertaining, thought provoking, head scratching, etc etc.Published 2 years before Harry Potter and 4 years before Phantom Menace, the influence on both series is apparent. I did not love it, but this was a fun book and I may read more from him.
Here is yet one more instance that supports the old adage that “hindsight is 20/20,” because had I known how much I’d have enjoyed this book, I’d have read it sooner.
They aren’t anything except ye olde average sex scene that for most of us (who are over the age of consent) isn’t worth getting bent out of shape for.And on top of all that, the book is also jam packed with all kinds of issues that make people uncomfortable: Politics.
I picked this book up because of the hype and had no expectations for reading any of the subsequent novels Maguire has published.
GREEN EDGES.Is it normal that it makes me so excited? One week later. Maybe the green edges set too high expectations.I may or may or may not have skimmed through he last 150 pages (out of 520).And now I really don't know what to say about this.The writing is very rich, substanstial, and ther story seems, initially, to absorb such qualities itself, but right after you close the book you just know that, actually, it left you nothing. And while I know -I experienced- that this story is anything bu
GREEN EDGES.Is it normal that it makes me so excited?
One week later.
Maybe the green edges set too high expectations.I may or may or may not have skimmed through he last 150 pages (out of 520).And now I really don't know what to say about this.The writing is very rich, substanstial, and ther story seems, initially, to absorb such qualities itself, but right after you close the book you just know that, actually, it left you nothing.
And while I know -I experienced- that this story is anything but flimsy, I wonder what went wrong.
For the wrong reasons.
I never could figure out where he stood on any of the issues, except for animal rights.
Like the animal rights issue.
It’s all over the first half of the book and then you don’t hear one single word about it until the last 40 pages or so.
He was rambling through his thoughts with me as the unfortunate tag-along.Finally, this book told me absolutely nothing (save a few gossip-worthy details) about the Wicked Witch of the West that I couldn’t have figured out on my own.
But each successive chapter I liked less and less, until I finally reached a point where I was reading the book only to finish it, not because I enjoyed it.One of the main things that didn't work for me was that I felt the author did an inadequate job of introducing people to the world of Oz. While of course there the original Oz books for that, Gregory Maguire had to know that the majority of people who read this book were only familiar with the movie (or nowadays, I guess, the play).
Like a roaster lightly and lovingly giving the roastee a tender "going over", coddling his target out of a deep love and respect, Maguire delicately prods Baum's material, for instance, giving unintended meaning to or investing heavy with innuendo scenes and situations that the originator probably unintentionally left open to interpretation.
He takes his time to lay down some of the important breaking points in the Witch's life that eventually transform her from a little girl into a monster, a very real monster if not for the reasons she is perceived to be one.I've read The Wonderful Wizard of Oz only once and have seen The Wizard of Oz movie countless times, so my ideas of how the story goes is skewed towards the Hollywood version.
I kept reading to the bitter end of this book hoping that suddenly it would all come together in a glorious flash of beautiful, meaningful allegory that would make all the crap worth it.
I was just really mad when I was done that I'd wasted so much time on it hoping that it'd pull through.Not only did it delve into the kinky, it was just plain boring and didn't make sense to me.If you're interested in it because of the broadway musical, don't bother either.
The only similarity between the musical and this book are the basic identities of the characters.
People who have seen the musical and have read the book too say that they are very different.
In a great story, especially a fantasy, a reader should feel swept away, captivated by every sentence.
The book is also full of politics and the author seems to go out of his way to show us how fancy his vocabulary is.
In fact, it's one of the most annoying things about this exceptionally annoying book.
If you are expecting this book to be, as I was, a fantasy along the lines of L.
Although to be fair, WICKED doubtless also owes some of its popularity to the fact that it's a well-written, literary novel that can be appreciated by well-read, literary-type people.
The book delves far deeper into the witch's life and times than any musical could in only two hours, however.
In the book version of WICKED, readers are introduced to the witch, whose real name is Elphaba, when she is first born.
In general, I recommend this book for OLDER readers who are huge fans of the Oz books or the Wicked play and want to go deeper.
I tried to like this book, but while I did find it funny at times it just wasn't all that impressive, and I think in the attempt to be deep, the author lost a lot of the simple magic that was present in the original stories, the wonder found in everyday objects and humble characters and also the real importance of love.
Wicked is often just hard to stay focused on as a story and keeps getting stuck in some irrelevant agenda while losing sight of its original plot at the weirdest times.
Maguire's Oz is a complex, political society, and his Wicked Witch Elphaba and her contemporaries are fascinating, moving, original characters--but the landscape and people are so far removed from their base story that the purpose of the reimagining, reworking seems lost to me.
The problem with  Wicked is that there's not enough character or plot similarity to lend any significance to the reworking: Maguire's unrecognizable Dorothy is a clueless, hateful bitch; Glinda is some kind of deluded sorority girl, and the events of the Wizard of Oz timeframe, (once the plot finishes its excellent backstory,) don't ring true because they have exactly nothing to do with the story we know barring the names.
I don't know the wizard of oz very well so I am sure i missed some connections. Still really enjoyed this book. Loved the characters. Wasn't sure what was 'normal magic' and what was even Peculiar even to them.
I generally like McGuire's books, but in my opinion this is by far the best of them.
The characters and interpersonal relationships in this book are complicated but leave you guessing about details that occur behind the scenes and curious about the tales that are left untold.
The story also does not make for easy reading due to some of these complications, and I could see the story turning off readers who might have been misled by the apparently fairy-tale-esq premise of the book into expecting something else.McGuire slips in some of his philosophy seamlessly into the dialog and actions of the characters.
Read a book with nonhuman characters.2.5 stars "'Listen to me, sister,' she said. 'Remember this: Nothing is written in the stars. Not these stars, nor any others. No one controls your destiny.'" I have never ever been more frustrated while reading a book. As most of you know from my continuous status updates describing my turmoil at my insistence that I NEVER EVER DNF anything, I had a really hard time getting into this one. It was boring and academic, and I would constantly find myself falling
Read a book with nonhuman characters.2.5 stars
I have never ever been more frustrated while reading a book.
Excuse me, Mr. Maguire, but when you want to market your book as fantasy, please give your book a plot.
But it's such a case of an amazing premise being swallowed whole by an author's ambition and preoccupation with style.On the plus side, I really loved the character of Elphaba.
I even read the original tale in order to get an idea of the original world this novel was built on, and I became even more confused by it.
The conflict between the witch and Dorothy was only because Glinda gave Dorothy the shoes that Elphaba wanted?
3.5 stars - It was a bit strange and wasn't really what I thought it was going to be, but it was entertaining enough.
Certainly, some of the Oz mythos has filtered down into society at large over the years and I am broadly aware of some of the stories more famous bits.I knew of the yellow brick road—upon which I presumed the entire tale took place.
And I knew that one ought pay no attention to the man behind the curtain.Oh. And that flying monkeys apparently played some role.With that in mind, I can say that MacGuire crafts a tale that takes a path down a road that with few exceptions is easy enough for even an Oz Neophyte to follow without getting lost.
She starts life as an outcast for various reasons, & really never recovers, though she's bright, determined, brave, a good friend and caring family member, and in some ways sensitive, though self-involved.
Is Elphaba wicked because she's not interested in those things?
There's an implication that Elphaba's father may have been The Wizard, but that's all we find out about that - this is just one example of a loose end, there are many others throughout the book.
Like Elphaba, this book is beautiful in its way, & oddly fascinating - but somehow flawed and unfinished.
The political and religious strata of Oz was well-thought out.But I couldn't connect to any of the characters, especially the main character of Elphaba.
But in my mind, while Elphaba was the center of the story, there was just nothing about her that drew me in, nothing that made me want to know her better.
I think there's a place for everything, and when I pick up a book that purports to be about the life and times of the Wicked Witch of the West, I expect a fantastical backstory about her.And that's the thing.
okay, I will admit that I have no idea about how someone who has no idea what The Wizard of Oz story is about would react to the book ...This is a great read, in my opinion far better than the follow-up books he wrote.
Not only that, but from an utterly frightening, "bad" character in the former story, he has morphed her into someone who we are very sympathetic towards, and who we care about deeply (at least I did).
This was one of my very favorite books of the few years around the time that I read it..
I loved Wizard of Oz so I thought that I would really enjoy this book. Nada. I hated every second of it. Made no sense at all to me.
My mother had brought me up loving the stories where the told the other side of the tale, that tried to explain that things aren't so black and white, and maybe there's a good reason for the "villain" to be doing what she's doing.
Things like Fractured Fairy Tales from Rocky and Bullwinkle, and  The True Story of the Three Little Pigs were what I'd grown up with.Wicked does an awesome job of painting a back story, motive and reason for misunderstanding and mistrust that takes the Wicked Witch of the West from being a two dimensional villain in a children's book, and turns her into a person you can understand and maybe even sympathize with.
www.melissa413readsalot.blogspot.comI thought this book was good and sad.
I felt really sorry for Elphaba (the wicked witch of the west) because from the day she was born (green) she was not liked by her parents or too many people in the world.
She was tolerated and a few choice people liked her.
It's just like normal society where people are prejudiced against anything different.
I'm guessing that would turn a lot of people wicked.
Her sister did become the wicked witch of the east.
Even so, I very much loved reading about Elphaba's birth and life growing up.
