https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/225092.The_Farthest_Away_Mountain
I LOVED this book.
Everything a child's fairytale should be.
While I enjoy many current junior fiction titles, they just can't capture the vintage charm that stories such as this contain.
"The Farthest-away Mountain" is going right up there with "The Ordinary Princess" as a book that will, without question, be read to my daughter.
I found the moral to be wonderful and the story balanced with enough simplicity that a child could grasp it, but enough interest to keep it from being just another "carbon-copy fairytale" to be dismissed.
For adults, this is a very light read, but a perfect break from heavy, dull "grown-up" fare.
This was the first book I read when I was a young girl, roughly around the age of 7.
It made me feel magical, and truly was my escape at the time, which is probably why I love it so much.
I remember while reading this, imagining that I was Darkin on this wild adventure to get to the farthest-away mountain.
And as a young girl, this book was so incredibly magical to me, I must of read it about a thousand times.
It's a great way to open up to reading.
If it wasn't for this book, I don't think I'd be reading right now.
An old-school story about a plucky heroine who saves the day. I was worried it would feel dated in bad ways, but it mostly sidesteps antiquated gender roles and the like. The shape of the story is old-fashioned, but it's old-fashioned like a warm quilt from your grandparents and not, like, political ideas from your grandparents. I will probably read this to my daughter someday soon and I'll enjoy that.
My friend Linds had this on her shelf and suggested I give it a try - being short and having time during our hang out I figured sure!This is very much like the Gail Carson Levine fairy tale books - though this predates them by 20 years of course.
This would have been one of my favorites as a child if I had read it then.I like that for Dakin it wasn't her being stubborn or arrogant, she had QUESTIONS and NOTIONS and didn't see why she shouldn't have the answers.
Ok well only wanting to marry a prince was a bit arrogant, but plenty of folk want to marry royalty and princes do seem dashing from far away and in stories.
I'm reading it because a friend said it was her favorite book growing up.My first reaction was happiness because I saw this book was written by the same author as The Indian in the Cupboard, which I remember I liked as a child.
I'm not sure if it was because my mind was on the Indian in the Cupboard book that she also wrote, but it was so obvious that troll was going to come to life.p. 12: She gets lost within 3 minutes of her journey into the woods!?
The Troll's advice on how not to get lost is to walk along the pine needles, never across them!?
“Forests always gave Dakin a shivery feeling, half unease and half excitement.”  The Farthest-Away Mountain was a delightful read. From purple, orange and blue coloured snow to dinosaurs, this book delivered some unique traits and twists - despite following the rather typical fantasy setting of our protagonist, Dakin, setting out on a quest (oh, I do love those adventure/quest fantasy stories, though!). Dakin was a lovely character - even though she dreamed of marrying a prince, she was courage
From purple, orange and blue coloured snow to dinosaurs, this book delivered some unique traits and twists - despite following the rather typical fantasy setting of our protagonist, Dakin, setting out on a quest (oh, I do love those adventure/quest fantasy stories, though!).
If you enjoy fantasy and fairy tales and can accept a children’s book for what it is without nitpicking at all that should have been explained with more depth, you might find Dakin’s adventure just as magical as I did and enjoy a simple but delightful read.
I recognized this cover immediately when I stumbled across it here, even though I haven't seen my copy of the book in probably a decade.
She's not forced to head to the mountain because of war or a mysterious quest--she wants to see it, and she goes.
The world she finds there might seem overly familiar now that every fantasy archetype risks being labeled cliche, but at the time I read it I couldn't imagine a more compelling world to find waiting outside the window.
This was a book that I grew up loving.
I was so excited to read it out loud to Lucy.
First, Lucy loved the book.
Lucy is 6 and she loved it.
But she liked it.
I give the book 2 stars because reading it wasn't as enjoyable as I thought.
I didn't like the story as much when I was younger and I found the writing not very fluent.
Lucy loved it I think she would have given it 4 stars.
I rate the books on how it is for me as an adult since i am the one reading it.
I just picked this up for a quick re-read.
This was a book from elementary school that I read once and loved so much, the name stuck in my head and I was able to look it up years later.
I loved fantasy as a child, and I think this book may be one of the reasons why.
Re-reading it, I can see why I loved it.
Dakin is independent and adventurous, and the story has really vivid imagery.
And I really like that the ending (view spoiler)[didn't have her marrying a prince, and instead finding her true happiness (hide spoiler)].
Definitely a keeper to read to my future hypothetical children.
I recently reread this, and I have to say that it wasn't even half as good as when I first read it when I was seven or eight.There were several misspelled words and sentences, and not enough plot development.I know its a children's book, but that shouldn't mean anything.
A book should have correct words and should tell you everything you need and want to know about the story.
But sadly not all books are like that.I remember this book being so good, but the truth is that it really isn't.I wish I never reread it.And what the hell kind of name is Dakin?
Oh, how I loved this book!I remembered this book from when I was <10 years old. I loved it. My fond memories of this book led me to re-read it at 28. I still love it! This is a book for a young person who loves to read. I would recommend it to any child who is looking for a longer more challenging book. The themes are benign and the fantasy charming. There are some very mild scary parts but they come no where near disturbing. It's just precious :)
This is one of those foundational books for me. I read it as a child, I searched for it as an adult, and re-read it...and it's still magic. It has everything I need in a fantasy, and everything a children's book should have. I think this really influenced my taste in literature. Irrevocably.
This was one of my favorite books as a kid. When I was in fourth grade, my teacher read it to us with silly voices for all the characters. I think that is what really made me love the story! But the idea of the story is really neat and fun. It is a great, original fantasy story!
all of it reminded me of cartoons full of trolls, witches, goblins and so on, I loved those cartoons as kid.
One of my favorite books ever. I read this as a kid and still have my copy, and have reread it so many times. Even as an adult since it just takes me back!
There is one thing about this book I do not like.
The young man Ravik had been good, but not wise, and so he had brought evil to to the Magic Mountain.
The people of the mountain had been good, but not brave: they had run away and left the mountain in the power of evil boy, who now, 200 years later was both the master and the witch.
Whether she herself was good or not, Dakin did not stop to think.
You must be brave and wise as well as good.
Oh man, thinking of this book makes me laugh.
I read it at a young age, at my mother's insistence.
She told me I would like it and I tried to tell her she didn't know me and didn't know what I would like.
I don't know if I was right, because honestly I think anyone could enjoy this book.
Great example of a role model for a young person of any gender, and a genuinely enjoyable and original story.
I can't think of anything else I've ever read that's like it.
It has pictures on occasion, and they really add to the story as well and help bring it to life.
This is one of my absolute favorite books from when I was young. My sister used to read it to me all the time because it was her favorite book when she was younger. It’s a magical story about a girl who goes into an enchanted forest to reach the farthest away mountain and encounters all types of mystical creatures and such. I love this so much especially because it is an older boon with a strong female character as the protagonist. Loved this reread!#booked2018 #litsy #childhood favorite
This was my favorite book as a little girl (8 - 14 years old). It was so exciting and fantastic. I recently hunted down a copy for my 7 year old and she is really enjoying it too. I remember feeling so mesmerized by the characters and the story. Be careful what you wish for. Never be afraid to chase your dreams. Be kind and brave. I want my daughter to learn and live by the lessons in this book just like I did.
I simply loved this adorable book by Lynne Reid Banks! The Farthest-Away Mountain is a children’s book about a magical journey to conquer evil. Even though it’s geared for children, I gobbled up this adorable adventure. The language was beautiful and the characters so sweet. 5 stars #amberkatrinareads #goodreads #2018books #thefarthestawaymountain
The book was a quick read but it was one of those books that you can't put down you just want to keep reading. While reading it the details were very well written to the point that it was very visual. I would recommend this to anybody who wants a quick read and loves fantasy books.
This was my favorite book from childhood and I picked it up again as a bit of comfort. It was so great to vaguely remember it and slowly put it together as I reread. I want to keep it to read to my daughter.
I didn't dig the story or the writing. Already I knew this was not edited well when in the beginning of the book Dakin was said to be 14 and then 4 years later was 15... I think that could have been an easy fix for the publishers/editors to do.
I read this book as a child and was totally swept into the world it described. I wanted to be the main character and have an adventure like she did. This got me interested in the fantasy genre in general. Love this book!!
Read this when I was 11 am now 26 and amazingly still remember tid bits. So I have to say it went over quite well. Its hard to find a good fantasy but this is defiantly a nice one.
I borrowed the audiobook on cassette as a child and was enchanted by the imagery, a favourite from years ago that I never quite forgot.
I want this book because I want Lear new thing's about it
My wife's favorite book as a child, she encouraged me to read it. It was a fun adventure book.
I found this book on my 4th grade teacher's reading shelf and I loved it. Over 20 years later and I still think about this book. I really think it it what got me interested in fantasy.
This was my absolute favorite book when I was a kid, I read it again as an adult and still loved it! Enchanting story, very well done and such a fun read!
