https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77754.A_Curtain_of_Green_and_Other_Stories
My admiration for Flannery O'Connor led me to Eudora Welty, but now I find that Welty--both as a writer and a person--is someone whom I both admire and love.Both O'Connor and Welty write a lapidary prose, inlayed with irony and humor and inscribed with the characters—many of them eccentrics--who people their Deep South.
It's a chestnut now, it was a chestnut then, and it's damn good and hilarious.This is my idea of a good story collection, and the writer who created this first crack out of the box is my idea of gifted, and there is not one thing I'd say to her except "well done, Miss Eudora" if she stood right here in front of me, not one little hint of a frown or trace of a doubt in my voice.
'Why I Live at the P.O.' is still my favorite short story of all time.
You know I love you, too.) I first read it in college, and read it again in this collection.
There's just something about this wacky tale of a young woman pushed SO far by her family, she leaves home to live at the post office, that tickles my fancy.
Whatever that is.Here's a wonderful collection by a consummate storyteller.
Some of the ladies are so delicate, they cannot bring themselves to utter the word pregnant, but must spell it out instead.
I expected to love Eudora Welty's writing but was disappointed. I slogged through this collection - only enjoying a couple of the more humorous stories. (Why I Live at the P.O., The Petrified Man) Most of the stories felt heavy-handed and melodramatic and the language was too florid for my taste. I will return to Welty at some point and try some of her other collections. I'm rating this a generous 3 stars as it could be just my mood. (I'm currently reading The Warmth of Other Suns and am not finding stories of quirky white Southerners appealing right now.)
DEATH IS INEVITABLE!!!" There are other authors that focus upon their Southern homes to great effect (read: Flannery O'Connor), but reading Welty felt to me like listening to an 8tracks "southern gothic" "aesthetic" playlist that's full of gimmicky British "Americana" music like Hozier and Mumford & Sons that's included just because it's in a minor key and either has a banjo or mentions church and death.
I have never much liked this "southern gothic" (I recall O'Connor's "school of Southern degeneracy" quip), and Welty seems to be a token of it.
I racconti di Eudora Welty assolvono tutti la stessa funzione, ossia mostrare una crepa: esiste una dissonanza tra la vita interiore dei protagonisti e il mondo esterno, e il mondo esterno a cui fare riferimento è la cultura del Sud degli Stati Uniti del Novecento, con tutto il bagaglio storico che ne consegue.
A differenza dei romanzi di William Faulkner, però, in cui il conflitto si risolve con un atto di violenza, a differenza dei racconti di Flannery O’Connor, nei quali la violenza è la chiave per accedere alla grazia, le storie di Eudora Welty non si concludono in tragedia; l’obiettivo della sua scrittura non è trovare una soluzione al disagio ma dimostrare che esiste.https://www.scratchbook.net/2018/02/e...
In Annie Hall, Woody Allen explains how he thinks everyone can be divided up into the horrible and the miserable.
In these stories, Welty puts a sharp focus on the horrible, but leaves some room for the merely miserable.
But usually, on a sentence by sentence level, and even paragraph by paragraph, I thought the writing was really fine.And yet, I had a hard time engaging with these stories.
They were very short on story, and were more like vignettes.
It's possible that its something about Welty, but I also think that I've pretty much lost whatever taste I had for Southern gothic.
I gave up after the first six stories. I call them stories, but they were so ambiguous that ‘story’ is the wrong word. In an avalanche of similes and over description, we’re introduced to a weird character, drift on to another weird character, then a third and a fourth, then the narrative stops. Tedious, pointless, and annoying.
Wonderful way with words but mostly pointless storiesBy Charles van Buren on February 11, 2018Format: Kindle Edition|Verified PurchaseJust as many of my fellow residents of the Jackson, Mississippi area, I became accustomed to occasionally seeing Miss Welty around town, particularly at the English Village Jitney Jungle grocery.
In my later years I have gone back and read some of that material and have enjoyed some of it.
I did not enjoy this collection of stories.
Miss Welty definitely had a way with words but I require more from a story than the artistry of the language and the drawing of characters.
A Curtain of Green and Other Stories is Eudora Welty’s first book, and this beautiful collection of short fiction, originally published in 1941, marks the beginning of a long, distinguished literary career. This is a book I’ve reread and taught several times, and each time I revisit these stories, I feel as if I’m catching up with an old friend. As is the case with outstanding fiction, I also see new elements in the stories each time I reread them. I recommend this collection for its diversity
A Curtain of Green and Other Stories is Eudora Welty’s first book, and this beautiful collection of short fiction, originally published in 1941, marks the beginning of a long, distinguished literary career.
Early in the story, Leota mentions Mrs. Pike, a new friend.
Together, Leota and Mrs. Pike, who is seen only through Leota’s stories, attend a freak show.
While they attend the freak show, Leota and Mrs. Pike see a petrified man, a man whose food digests in his joints and turns to stone.
Like Mrs. Fletcher, Sister feels the need to continually assert her superiority, and both women are performers.
Now, that should be taken in context with the reputation that precedes it, the writing is fine, some of the stories are interesting, but it certainly is not at the level of Faulkner.
There are no suburban people in Welty's stories, no strivers, just those that are afflicted in one way or another.
In these four stories two introduce us to people with much less than full mental acuity, one is a scoundrel bigamist, while the other features a family that could be called dysfunctional at best.
The tone was perfect for a little girl observing the bustle of her elders around her.
Unfortunately, Eudora Welty's short stories held none of that charm for me.
The tone that was so perfect for a little girl running around underfoot seemed confused when used as an omniscient narrator's voice.
Each sentence taken on its own is still charming, but as a whole they fail to construct a compelling story.
At the end of each story, I was left feeling like I had seen the shimmering outline of something potentially beautiful--but nothing more.
The quirky characters never became anything more than dolls in each panorama Welty painstakingly arranged.
Here's an example:from "A Memory"She herself stared fixedly at his slow, undeliberate movements, and held her body perfectly still.
She was unnaturally white and fatly aware, in a bathing suit that had no relation to her body.
Fat hung upon her upper arms like an arrested earth slide on a hill.
With the first motion that she might make, I was afraid that she would slide down upon herself into a terrifying heap.
Her breasts hung heavy and widening like pears into her bathing suit.
i truly think this collection of short stories has ruined other books for me for the last three months.
eudora is so terrific at the art of the short story.
i think of each of her short stories as a sort of mystery tale.
in her mission to expose the american south for all its dirty beauty she is both mercilessly cruel, as well as ironic and hilarious.
between the tension of her natural humor and exuberance and fiercely enforced intellectual restraint, welty's central themes (the oppression of blacks and women, and the stupefying religiosity of the south) develop into perfectly ripened fruit.
Flannery has been my favorite author for years and only Eudora Welty comes close to matching her aesthetic. These stories are not about people for whom one feels sympathy- they are losers, creeps, the tragic and the misunderstood. The famous works deserve their fame but the real power lies within stories like "The Whistle" and "A Memory". Dialogue makes up the majority of the action but it is the descriptions of a slowly changing southern atmosphere that gives real weight to the collection. One of the best works of southern short fiction you can read. It's still resonant!
The title story in this first collection of short stories (1941) by Eudora Welty, is not darkly humorous like many of her stories, but would still qualify as dark with the story focusing on a bitter widow and the young black boy helping her in her garden.  Set in Mississippi, there is a current of sadness, acceptance and violence.I listened to this story on Selected Shorts where it was featured on a segment called Strange Places.
Curtain of Green is a collection of short stories by Eudora Welty. These stories are all beautifully written with rich details and descriptions. But, they’re also really boring and confusing. Most of the stories were totally pointless and didn’t seem to have a plot at all. For writers, these stories showed a lot about how to use symbolism and metaphors but beyond that, they just weren't any fun to read.
A few of these felt dated/problematic, but mostly these are sooooooo good. Little insignificant people with their little insignificant problems. So bleak."Flowers for Marjorie," "The Whistle" and "A Memory" were my three favorites. "A Memory" makes the world seem so gross. So good.
It's been more than twenty years since my Southern Fiction class in college. Re-reading these stories now, I like them even more.
I first read Welty in college in an intro to American Lit class, specifically “A Petrified Man” from this collection, which remains one of my very favorite stories of all time.
It’s irreverent in just the right way.Other stories from this collection hit the same kinds of spots.
Welty put out about as many story collections as novels, and hit just right at the part of the American literary history to make a go of it in that way.
I had never read any of Eudora Welty's stories before but as I was scrolling through the classics section in the local state library, I saw a whole row of books containing short stories written by Welty.
Some of the stories have become instant favourites for me like Why I live at the P.O., A Piece of News, The Key, Keela -the Outcast Indian Maiden, Old Mr. Marblehall, Flowers for Marjorie, Death of a Traveling Salesman and a worn path.Highly entertaining and a classic by all means.
The best short stories I have read in along long time.
The older I get, the more I appreciate the short story collection.
This is the first collection written by Eudora (now my favorite name of all time).This collection made me laugh (Why I live at the P.O.; Lily Daw and the Three Ladies; A Visit of Charity), almost cry (Clytie; The Whistle; A Curtain of Green), and wonder at the brokenness, selfishness, and loneliness of us humans (The Key; Petrified Man; Powerhouse; A Worn Path).To laugh, cry and to wonder.
I put Eudora at the top of my list of short story writers with Flannery O'Connor and Raymond Carver.
Eudora and Flannery are similar in a way: Southern gothic.Gonna reread Why I live at the P.O. Time for another laugh.
Welty is a heck of a writer, and she can do it in so many different sort of psychological flavors that you'd never guess you were reading the same author from story to story in this text.
The stories all deal with insanity, violence, and the country, but they range from the somber slow cadences of "The Whistle" to the bouncy happy silliness of "Why I Live at the P.O." ("'Wah!' says Stella-Rondo, and has a fresh conniption fit.") I'd read "Powerhouse" and "A Worn Path" before without even knowing who they were by.
Sections from "Powerhouse" show up in a textbook I've read for teaching prose style.
3.5*Read as part of The Collected Stories. Very much to admire here, particularly the self-assured, perfectly paced writing. I wasn't entirely convinced by some of the stories, like I didn't know what to make of them, if they had any meaning beneath the surface that I might have unknowingly missed.
Raccolta molto varia, anche se l'impronta della Welty è sempre ben riconoscibile: empatia di fondo e durezza quando serve.Tra i racconti migliori: La chiave, La sirena, Gli autostoppisti, Un ricordo, Clytie.Cit.
DNF. Couldn't.
Bescheuert. Absolut bescheuert.
Read it! Even if its just for "Why I Live at the PO" and "Worn Path"!
This has some of my favorite Welty stories. Such vivid characters. I could read her stories all day.
A special nod to "Old Mr. Marblehall" and "Why I Live at the P.O."
