https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61926.All_the_Weyrs_of_Pern
They learn new ways of doing things and above all, they are on their way to becoming thread free in the future.
It is interesting to see how everyone on Pern reacts to the new unearthed computer.Some embrace the new ways of thinking and doing things.
This book focuses on the struggles within the society, the enhancements that come out of learning such new and inventive things and doing what they can to move the red planet so that thread will not fall in Pern's future.
I'm almost to the end with only two more to go to finish this series reading them in chronological order.
During the reading of this book, I couldn't put it down.
At the end, I basically wanted to throw it across the room, cry out my hate of it and pretend I'd never read it.
That being said, it wasn't because I hated the book itself.
I hated the irrevocably sad ending that nearly left me in tears.
They have done what they set out to do in the beginning of the series- destroy the threat of "Thread".
However, this has fundamentally changed the Pernese society in that the AI they uncovered of the first settlers begins what could be considered a minor industrial "re-revolution".
Pern dragons in space! What's not to like?! Definitely a favorite!
This is by far my favorite Pern book, and probably the last truly good one she wrote before they really started going downhill. I love fantasy and I love sci-fi, so you give me a story about traveling in space on a dragon and I am in heaven. So many interesting ideas and concepts, about space travel, time travel, dragons, and all of my favorite Pernese characters, even Sorka and Sean. Wonderful, wonderful book.
While the story is good it is also long, this need not be a problem, but I feel that with further editing it didn't have to be quite as long because there is a fair bit of repetition at times and in places: An example, in the early chapters Mirrim refers to 'my green Path' EVERY time she mentions her dragon.
There are a few plot holes, that are minor for the most part and one huge glaring one that is a (view spoiler)[ The dragons can survive (as long as they hold their breath) in space with no protection.
(view spoiler)[I had thought maybe Thread was some sort of offensive weapon by another alien race, but I guess that is way too cool for this series.
(hide spoiler)]In All the Weyrs of Pern, the characters uncover Aivas, an ancient computer left by the original settlers of the planet.
The characters don't get much development because they have been featured in multiple books, so there's no exploration into issues that would have been interesting other than all the Aivas chat.(view spoiler)[I found it to be amusing when Aivas went to sleep at the end.
That book was pretty awful, but I felt I had to get through it to finish the main "thread" of the story.
McCaffrey has no sense of climax, conflict, or tension.
The main conflict of the story was predistened to be succesful, and what should have been a thrilling climax turned out to be a little more than an errand, followed by a little waiting to see what would happen.
Characters solve all their problems immediately.For example, the whole story of destroying thread for good doesn't create any dramatic tension, since the Dragonriders clearly have no problem stopping it once it falls.
I really enjoyed this book...this is Book #11 in the Pern Series. I do have Book #1 to read which is called Dragonflight. Book #11 is the only one that I have read so far in this series. Eventually I will read all of the Books in this series and since i have read Book #11 I don't need to re-read that one again. I give this book 5/5 Stars here on Goodreads. Anne McCaffrey is one of my all time favorite top Authors. I love her books.
Dit deel van de Pern boeken gaat over de ontdekking van allerlei dingen die door de eerste bewoners van Pern zijn achtergelaten. Dat zorgt voor de nodige spanning tussen de mensen die vast willen houden aan de 'oude' manier en zij die de gevonden machines weer willen gebruiken. Dit alles onder de bezielende leiding van Vakin en de bard Robinton. Geweldig boek. Een 9, maar hier een acht.
This was a very satisfying ending to the series.
From what I’ve seen in my research into this series; this was the original ending before Anne and Todd revived it with new books (which I also have learned through my research- were not as good as the originals!) SO, on the record, I’m going to view THIS as the end of the series.
I may go on to read the later additions but I’m going to hold the series as a whole, glowing, satisfying, breathtaking, feels-inducing gem in my mind having been concluded with All the Weyrs of Pern.
Siav est vraiment terriblement humain en fait, c'est un personnage à part entière et seul sa façon d'être toujours conciliant quoi qu'il arrive nous rappelle de temps en temps que c'est une machine.Du coup on a aussi pas mal de réponses sur l'ancien Pern, celui des premiers colons.
On pourrait très bien s'arrêter ici et avoir vraiment l'impression d'être allé au bout des questionnements qu'on avait.En fait le seul point que j'ai remarqué (pas forcement uniquement dans ce tome non plus d'ailleurs, c'est un défaut général au cycle) c'est un petit manque d'indications de temps qui passe.
These are the characters that we know, on autopilot with little need to grow, but they're the reason why we're reading these books.Aside from the leads, the rest of the book has an ensemble cast, where you either know the characters or you don't.
This is especially true of third tier characters, who are little more than names, titles, and political positions.For a Pern fan, the book will itch enough itches, but it won't capture what made Pern so alluring.
For a non-Pern fan, this is the wrong book to start with.
"Hooray" for F'lar!- for finally destroying his nemesis, with the help of the recently discovered AIVAS, forgotten in the buried ruins of the colonist's landing site for over 2500 years - along with the crucial assistance of Jaxon and his unique white dragon Ruth.Lord Holder Jaxom and Ruth turn out to be instrumental in carrying out AIVAS' plans, which involve "timing" over a period of centuries using Ruth's innate sense of time & place.Despite opposition from some older riders and hyper-conservative holders and craftmasters, the technology of Pern is revolutionized by AIVAS' innovations, which ultimately allow both the Dragons and their riders to opperate in the vacuum of space and even in the harsh environment of the wandering planet itself.
Okay .
Now middle aged, I remember the series and also recall I never read it although my adolecent friends in the highschool sci-fi club were all enthused about it.
a stint in the Army (okay .
try over a decade) and a couple of career changes.
Something that does not require as much mental effort (like Peikoff on Objectivism) or as much concentration (as any of the Roman or Middle Ages histories I've reviewed).
Pern is like Coke Zero.
Sometimes, you just need a mental break.
This picks up a few years after the end of The White Dragon.
(the books' internal dates would probably indicate what the gap separating the two is, and I'm sure fans have it calculated to the day, but I can't be bothered) The advanced computer AIVAS has guided the inhabitants of Pern in recovering the technology available to their predecessors who landed on the planet over 2500 years previously; this suits most Pernese quite well, but a few resent the machine which they call "Abomination".
Despite these naysayers' efforts, AIVAS engineers the end of Thread on Pern through two methods: a) moving the Red Star's orbit such that it will no longer pass through the Oort cloud and b) creating a parasite which will destroy Thread at its source, ensuring that the threat will never recur.
Anne yes, Tod no!I read most of Anne's books when they were first printed, and read most in a single sitting.I recently read several of her son's books and wondered how I could have enjoyed the original books so very much, so I re-read several (in fact the first seven Perm stories she wrote) of the originals and discovered the problem.
Anne was a magnificent writer her son is no writer at all.
The one problem with the Perm tales is the mistake Anne made in not finding at least a good writer for more tales.
A re-read -- not quite as magical as when I read it in high school, but I am still a sucker for a) fantasy, b) sci-fi, c) origin stories and d) fictional worlds discovering their own origin stories (particularly that last one). Also a treat just having recently read Dragonsdawn, since it echoes so nicely.
Epic and ambitious, as I remembered it, but also flawed in more ways than one. The sexism that so annoyed me in the previous books was even more present here, and there were some clumsy inconsistencies in plot and naming that were distracting. Nonetheless, hail Pern and its dragons - a wonderful world.
I definately remember reading this one, back in the day when there was fan-weyrs at most every con...
About killed me, too, when Robinton died.
In which the people of Pern find evidence of their ancestors that settled the planet, and find a way to eliminate thread.
Unlike many other creators of alternate worlds, Anne McCaffery continues to mine fresh ore from the soil of her imagined reality. Her storytelling is good, too.
It was interesting to watch McCaffrey move her Dragonriders into modern science and astronomy.
I am really enjoying this series and this book in particular.
So much happens and the final battle is waged!In this book you really get a feeling for time passing, characters growing and Pern opening into a new age with refound knowledge and technology.
The wish to destroy thread from the very first book is finally acted upon and Jaxom and his white dragon are the pivotal characters they always have been!You can see how things are left a tad uncertain at the end of this one, albeit on a positive note, which lead to The Skies of Pern.
Quite possibly my favourite Pern novel.
Is the culmination of all the threads from the previous novels, and builds to a satisfying, albeit bittersweet, conclusion.
The usual suspects are back in force in this novel, from both the Dragonriders and Harper Hall trilogies, plus some from Renegades of Pern, and mesh well here as they are all mature now, and their relationships are pretty settled and comfortable as they work together on a great project.
The antagonists (never free of these) are less one-dimensional here, rather than caricature villains, they feel more inspired from people in history who have reacted to events in certain ways.

Can All the Weyrs of Pern accomplishe the destruction of theardWith this the finale of the Dragon riders of Pern.
Lessa and F'lar as Weyr leaders of Benden along with Jaxom, rider of Ruth the highly unique white dragon the end to Thread is with in grasp with the help of AVAIS a computer left by the settlers of Pern and only recently discovered after 2500 turns.
It will take Crafts and Holds all working together as well as all the dragons of Pern to destroy the destructive Thread,.
The threat of thread will finally be lifted from the planet of Pern if all the wears and holds and craft halls can learn new skills and work together.
With the help of Aivas, the IA from the original colonists, the eccentric planet that trails the thread capsules into Pern's atmosphere will be diverted out of its current orbit.
Fighting to learn what they must and the prejudice of some against the societal changes propelled by the learning from Aivas is the main Plot line here.
Lots of intrigue, daring space adventures, and on planet effort.
Pern is a planet where a feudal society has evolved to cope with the difficulties this world threw at its human colonists.
In this book the colonists rediscover some of their ancestors' technology including the main AI and the space ships that brought humans to the planet thousands of years earlier.
The AI promises that it can show them how to destroy the alien lifeform and safeguard their world forever, but first they have to go back to school and relearn all the science and technology that has been forgotten.
