https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35604686-the-astonishing-color-of-after
I'm kind of in awe of this book. It was beautifully written and it both broke and mended my heart.
Depression, I opened my mouth to say, but the word refused to take shape. Why was it so hard to talk about this? Why did my mother’s condition feel like this big secret?...“She’s forgotten how to be happy,” I told him. As you can see from the picture I shared on instagram, this book was so quotable. There were so many beautiful thoughts, emotions and moments captured perfectly with words.I probably wouldn't have read The Astonishing Color of After if I hadn't noticed it on my library's new relea
There were so many beautiful thoughts, emotions and moments captured perfectly with words.I probably wouldn't have read The Astonishing Color of After if I hadn't noticed it on my library's new releases page and thought "why not?" Talk of magical realism and a mother who turns into a bird made it sound a little too weird for my tastes; plus, talk of "lush writing" and comparisons to writers like Nova Ren Suma made me think it might be an obnoxiously flowery magical realism book.Honestly, all that is a little misleading.
We have a heartbreaking story of loss, grief, depression, family and identity, all in a beautifully-imagined Taiwanese setting.
Leigh’s first kiss with her best friend and first love, Axel, vanishes into the thickening dark of what follows: Leigh’s mother, Dory, has taken her life, and the way she’d left—no note, no explanation—had carved a space so deep Leigh got drawn down into it.Leigh is still feeling the pull of her mother leaving, like a little of her had trailed after Dory, when a huge crimson bird calls out her name and Leigh knows it’s her mother, reincarnated.
The experience of sitting with this book, sinking into it, aching along with Leigh as her voice gives up the grief she’d folded inside her, as the loss breaks and punctures and shapes and sutures her back together, was wonderful, painful and moving.To read The Astonishing Color of After felt like a privilege and a gift.
TW: suicide, depressionSuch a beautiful debut! The writing was exquisite, I really cared for the characters, and I loved learning more about Chinese/Taiwanese culture! It was a fully immersive read that was definitely heartbreaking, but beautiful overall. The magical realism/religion element was excellently executed. Really enjoyed this one! My only complaint is it was a teensy bit too long IMO (though it did really insanely fast for the most part).
“If he looked in my eyes straight on, he would know how he’d pierced me with an arrow, how its shaft was still sticking out of my chest, twitching each time my heart contracted. And maybe he’d see how my mother had sliced up everything else.”  This is one of the most beautiful books I’ve ever read in my entire life. It’s powerful, moving, poignant, lyrical, important, and touched me beyond words. From the discussion about mental health and the stigmas we still have in 2018 (especially in Asian
From the discussion about mental health and the stigmas we still have in 2018 (especially in Asian cultures), to the true portrayal of grief, to the heartbreaking truth about depression, to the realistic depiction of what it means to be not only biracial but to be white passing, to the discovery of your identity.
Depression, loss, and grief are highlighted themes through this entire book, and they are so real and so important and I have no words to express how much they meant to me that they were huge components of this YA story.
And besides, it is character-driven and there’s nothing wrong about that.It’s also a magical realism story, but one that is in no way going to confuse you to the point where you’ll be tempted to give up on trying to understand the elements pertaining to the fantasy genre.
More often than not, I feel little connection to fictional people that passed away before I had gotten a chance to know them, but because we learn about Dory’s past gradually, the author going back to the root of the family drama, I couldn’t help but sympathize and understand what she went through.
Once upon a time we were the standard colors of a rainbow, cheery and certain of ourselves. At some point, we all began to stumble into the in-betweens, the murky colors made dark and complicated by resentment and quiet anger. At some point, my mother slid so off track she sank into hues of gray, a world drawn only in shadows.  This deserved its spot on the NYT bestsellers list. Actually, it deserved higher and to stay longer.First of all, the writing is the best. This is contemporary fabulism
As you probably know because this book has been everywhere this year, it follows a girl whose mother has died by suicide.
It’s a book about finding family across the world, family despite a language barrier.Thirdly, and this is something that tends to really enhance my love of books - I would give my life for the lead.
Leigh is a girl going through hell, and not really knowing how to deal with it.
Cathartic, emotive, and gorgeously written, with a lead protagonist I absolutely adore, this book is going to make it straight to the top of all the best-of-2018 lists.
It's been nominated for the Carnegie Medal, and nominated for the Goodreads Choice Awards in TWO categories: Best Debut Author and Best Young Adult Fiction!It also was named by the Wall Street Journal as one of the top twelve books of the season, was #5 on the INDIE NEXT list, a Junior Library Guild selection, a Book of the Month Club pick, and the Birchbox Book Club pick for March 2018!Check out the STARRED REVIEWS and media buzz:“Particularly laudable is Pan’s sensitive treatment of mental illness: Leigh learns many heartbreaking things about her mother’s life, but those moments are never offered as explanations for suicide; rather, it’s the result of her mother’s lifelong struggle with severe, debilitating depression.
Even in the US, Asian-American women have a high rates of suicide because of how unwilling we are to talk about our problem, and the unwillingness of our family to confront it.There have been numerous suicides among famous actors and musicians in countries like Japan and South Korea, and after each one, people talk about it and how sad it is, and how we should not overlook depression, but I feel like nothing is ever done after the mourning period.
It's not an overwhelming thing, but Leigh's guilt and confusion over him is written so vividly.Like I said before, this book approaches mental illness and depression so well.
Ohhhh this was emotional and super super sad and yet entirely gorgeously written.
It made me just want to swim in a bucket of paint tbh.
So. This one is emotional.It's about family and being biracial and mental illness and suicide.
The emotion bleeds on every page and after reading the author's note and knowing a lot of this was her processing a suicide within her relations...omg.
But the book definitely talks about depression being an illness, not anyone's fault.So yes it's heavy...but it also is about the journey towards healing after tragedy.
I was not prepared for all these emotions and also wanting to spontaneously learn to paint.
4.5 stars, rounded up.Lyrical, emotionally powerful, even fantastical at times,  The Astonishing Color of After  is a stunning, poignant look at grief, family, love, and secrets that packs a real punch, and leaves you with gorgeous images in your mind. "We try so hard to make these little time capsules. Memories strung up just so, like holiday lights, casting the perfect glow in the perfect tones. But that picking and choosing what to look at, what to put on display—that's not the true nature of
Memory is a mean thing, slicing at you from the harshest angles, dipping your consciousness into the wrong colors again and again."Leigh Sanders has always caught people's attention—for the colorful streaks she puts in her hair, her artistic talent, and her mixed heritage, as her mother is Chinese and her father is Irish-American.
But no matter how many times she asked through her childhood, she's never met her maternal grandparents, never heard much about her mother's life before she met Leigh's father while studying in America.
There she hopes that she'll finally understand what her mother is trying to tell her, what she wants her to remember.
Once upon a time we were the standard colors of a rainbow, cheery and certain of ourselves. At some point, we all began to stumble into the in-betweens, the murky colors made dark and complicated by resentment and quiet anger. At some point, my mother slid so off track she sank into hues of gray, a world drawn only in shadows.  Contemporary and magical realism, a strange combination that does not happen often. First book I ever read that included magical realism was Like What For Chocolate but
Leigh, being half Asian because of her Taiwanese-born mother and half White beause of her Irish-American father, she travels to Taipei, Taiwan to meet her grandparents, the people she had wished to meet for a very long time but never was able to for reasons she never knew.
Set in the past and present, reality and magic, The Astonishing Color of After introduces us to the life of Leigh and how begins discovering secrets about her family, chases after ghosts and her mother-bird, learns about her Asian heritage, and begins to wonder what hope and love means.Trigger/content warnings for depression and suicide.
This bird wants Leigh to travel to Taiwan, where she'll uncover buried family secrets and find her identity in the world.
When Leigh travels to Taiwan, where she uncovers her mother's history, she sees how her mother was not okay and falling deeper and deeper into depression.
While the beginning and ending made me really love it, I can't ignore the fact that more than half of this book was really slow and boring for me.There was also a lot of girl hate.
I liked it, I loved the themes and messages in this book and still would recommend it!Trigger warnings: suicide, depression, and death.
This is, without a doubt, one of the most beautiful books I have ever read, and it completely and utterly wrecked me. In case you aren’t aware, major trigger warnings for suicide and mental illness in the book and this review—proceed with caution and take care of yourself. ♥ My mother is free in the sky. She doesn’t have the burden of a human body, is not made up of a single dot of gray. My mother is a bird.  First of all, the writing in this book is stunning. It’s got this beautifully magical,
Leigh is such a great narrator for the story; she’s just unreliable enough that it can be hard at first to know if the things she’s seeing are actually happening to her, and it doesn’t help her any when her father refuses to believe a word she says about the bird she believes her mother has become.
can we all just take a moment to appreciate that this is a debut??!!? like, honestly. i am the astonishing colour of impressed. this book definitely didnt read like it was an authors first work. this was magic. just the imagery alone was outstanding - it showcased dealing with grief in such beautiful and colourful way! i really hope emily pan chooses to write another book because i need more of her writing!  4.5 stars
This book hit home for me. From Leigh losing her mom to how she had to grow up being biracial. Just a beautiful and heartfelt story.
I’m enjoying it!!!
but I can currently feel myself on the edge of a slump and I will not let a slow book drag me down into that hellhole, so for now, this book is on hold---------------------------------------------I mean, I’m not saying that I’m still in disbelief that one of my most anticipated 2018 releases is in my hands, or that I’m dropping everything to read this, but...
that’s exactly what I’m saying(p.s. THE ARC IS SIGNED)// unofficial buddy read with the one who gives me good lick, the one who stabs her pets, and too gay for their own good
And yet, somehow, I found myself in a character - I genuinely never thought it would happen and when it did, I experienced this sense of belonging & happiness which is one of the most valued and wonderful emotions a human can experience in my opinion.I think I connected to Leigh so much because she feels out of place everywhere; At home and in Taiwan.
Seeing Leigh so badly want to meet her maternal grandparents; seeing how much she craves to explore more of her identity - this is the kind of content and topics I want to see more of in books - it’s beautiful and raw and authentic.
im legit more disappointment in this book than i am in the world cup okay maybe thats a sliiiiight exaggeration this book started off SOSOSOSOSO GOOD but it was SO long and i started to find the writing grow so TEDIOUS and then the mystic plot just began to overwhelm everything and i just wasn't feeling it gahhhh im so sad.
i felt like the grief and sadness got overshadowed with all the other ish going on.
so awesomebut besides that, the mc was annoying and very very rude to like EVERYONE around her and she pretty much blames it on her grief and boiiiiii let me tell you that ain't okay 2 stars!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Beautiful and heartbreaking. Easily one of the best books I’ve read this year, and definitely a new favourite.
It sounds so heartbreaking.
Since I personally haven't experienced depression or had suicidal thoughts, books like this provide an opportunity for vicarious learning.
With all that said, I am grateful that this book taught me that we shouldn't judge people with depression, an illness that has so many layers.Another reason why I liked TACOA is that it exposed me to Chinese/Taiwanese culture.
I currently don't have the means to travel to foreign countries, so I'm glad that books like this enable me to experience different cultures from the comfort of my bed.
It's a book that can start discussions on topics that people usually avoid: depression and suicide.
3.75/5 My mother is a bird. This isn’t like some William Faulkner stream-of-consciousness metaphorical crap. My mother. Is literally. A bird. First of all, I love the quote above; such a phenomenal and humorous way to start a novel.Wow, okay, this book went through so many ups and downs. But it doesn’t matter because it ended up being more unique and touching than I thought it would/could be -- and I couldn't be any happier by that!The opening chapters of this novel are probably my favorite part
But it doesn’t matter because it ended up being more unique and touching than I thought it would/could be -- and I couldn't be any happier by that!The opening chapters of this novel are probably my favorite parts of it — the way it throws you into the action & emotion, and you’re supposed to learn/understand what’s going on as you follow Leigh through her journey to find her mother, the bird, is a great hook.So I didn’t want to talk about this quite yet, but I can’t help myself.
A COPY OF THIS BOOK FOUND ITS WAY INTO MY HANDS TODAY, AND I’M SO HAPPY RIGHT NOW MY HEART IS BURSTING.Basically, I ditched all my would-be current reads and everything else in my life for this book (with Hamiltrash #1’s blessing), and it kind of (?) lived up to being one of my most anticipated 2018 releases.
(rtc)Pretty, pretty please, let me love this.*A female, half-Asian main character, a storyline set in Taiwan (!!!), and elements of magical realism, combined with lyrical prose—have my dreams actually manifested themselves into reality, or am I still dreaming?
✨Blog ¦ Bloglovin’ ¦ Tumblr ¦ Instagram
that was one of the most beautiful books I have ever read in my life. it was stunning. I don’t have words. review to come when I can breathe again ————I am ready to be torn apart. buddy read with Caidyn and Melanie!
Closer to a 4.5 stars "Memory is mean thing, slicing at you from the harshest angles, dipping your consciousness into the wrong colors again and again." Wow, this book was gorgeously written and heart-breaking and amazing. This story follows a young girl named Leigh who has just discovered her mother has killed herself. This story is about her discovering her families history that she never knew about, and going to her Mother's birth place, and dealing with an absurd amount of grief. This book m
This book made my heart feel so heavy, and it really dives deep into issues like depression, and suicide.This book is gorgeously written.
Because of that this book made me so emotional multiple times because I could never imagine anything like this happening to my Mom and it broke my heart to watch Leigh deal with it all.
So the story is fucking amazing even though I still feel like it could be cut down considering it's nearly 500 pages.This book also kind of reminds me of A Million Junes because of the magical realism and the parent dying but still being there somehow.
Just Another Book Bitch's ALWAYS SPOILER FREE REVIEW For those familiar with the book...
I read this on the beach during vacation and this crane decided to hang out with me!
Those having read this book know the significance of the crane how amazing this is!!
While I think this may not be for everyone because of the subject matter, I do believe that many need to read it.
A very difficult review to write spoiler free...
Just take not only my suggestion but the other 5 star reviews and READ THIS BOOK!.
There are not enough words I could give to do this book justice!
Lovely writing but too much color talk!
Here is my mother, with wings instead of hands, and feathers instead of hair. Here is my mother, the reddest of brilliant reds, the color of my love and my fear, all of my fiercest feelings trailing after her in the sky like the tail of a comet.  Trigger Warning:  Suicide, depressionIt's strange to think that this whole time I had just been reading words on a screen, cause this book feels like a giant canvas where literally every color imaginable splashes onto it. Some people will probably be a
Here is my mother, the reddest of brilliant reds, the color of my love and my fear, all of my fiercest feelings trailing after her in the sky like the tail of a comet.
Suicide, depressionIt's strange to think that this whole time I had just been reading words on a screen, cause this book feels like a giant canvas where literally every color imaginable splashes onto it.
At some point, we all began to stumble into the in-betweens, the murky colors made dark and complicated by resentment and quiet anger.At some point, my mother slid so off the track she sank into hues of gray, a world drawn only in shadows.
At first glance, it might look like one flat color.
The sense of place, the sense of loss is palpable and melancholy – this doesn’t strive to explain depression but more to see the many layers, to understand the inner self, it is wonderfully done, using a strong, almost fairytale like prose.“Her words come out in shattered pieces, unintelligible, thick with hopelessness, heavy under the weight of something that’s taken me years to even begin to understand.Nothing is right, she says.”I found this novel to be an intensely impassioned portrayal of grief and acceptance, both devastating and ultimately uplifting, I will never forget Leigh and her journey and Emily X R Pan is firmly on my list of authors to drop everything for.Highly Recommended.
