https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/402127.Calico_Bush
This is really for an older audience -- 6th grade or above. There is a scene where the main character (a girl of about 12 or 13) stumbles upon a place where people have been killed (burned, supposedly by Indians) and she finds a lock of a child's hair attached to a piece of scalp and a buckle from a child's shoe. There is also a scene where a baby dies after her clothes catch fire because she's gotten too close to the hearth. It is a well-written book, though, and true to the time.
The bonus was that I was vacationing in Maine at the time, and thinking of the things early settlers had to contend with illuminated my understanding of the area."It was only by the next afternoon that Marguerite could get her swollen feet into her shoes and limp as far as the little grave.
Once more Marguerite folded her hands that were still sore and frostbitten and sang the little lullaby she had so often rocked Debby to sleep by:--
"The log house rocked on its foundations to the winds that raged for upwards of two days and nights.
As the Sargents work to settle their homestead in the Maine wilderness, under threat of violence from local American Indians, Marguerite, called Maggie, does her best to blend into the family and be of use to them, while also trying to remain true to her heritage.I had a very frustrating time reading this book.
Only Aunt Hepsa, the wise, elderly neighbor who takes a special liking to Maggie stands out, and that is really only because of her quirkiness.This book reminded a lot of The Witch of Blackbird Pond, which I also didn't enjoy that much, so this may just be a matter of personal preference regarding stories set in colonial New England.
Marguerite has been orphaned and is now a "Bound Out" girl to the Sargent family for the next 6 years.
The Sargents are settling in a new area, an area where there has been trouble with the Indians.
Marguerite suffers from negative stereotyping because of her French background and she must work very hard.
But overall the Sargents are fair and decent people.
I appreciated Marguerite's courage and the way her encounters with the native people were handled...much more positively than might be expected from a book written in the 1930's.
YA fiction about a 12-year-old French girl who is indentured to a pioneer family homesteading on the Maine coast. It's no "Little House," obviously, although it's chock full of offensive references to "Injuns." It's also no "Country of the Pointed Firs," though it is similarly evocative of the beauty of the wild Maine coast, just not as artful as Orne-Jewett. Despite its failings, I am a sucker for pioneer-themed YA and Calico Bush didn't disappoint in its descriptions of maple sugaring, log cabin-building, winter hardship and the gory accidents that befall pioneer children.
Remarkable in its depth.
Educational and a good read to boot.
3.5
In the 1740s, a family pioneers on the coast of Maine. Good middle grade novel with a well-drawn main character, the bonded servant Marguerite.
I came back home with a strange mix of feelings: elated by the wonderful week of activities, but brokenhearted by the loneliness I experienced.
Because of this experience, I feel a strong kinship with Maggie Ledoux, who not only experienced loneliness but also scorn.Calico Bush, by Rachel Field, tells the story of Marguerite “Maggie” Ledoux.
Yet when Maggie finally gets the chance to leave the Sargents, she decides to stay because she feels she has finally found a home.Calico Bush gave me powerful insights on pioneer life.
It is a wonderful story of a French child, known as Maggie, who comes to America with her grandmother and uncle who both die.
She is bound-out for 6 years to a family with several young children who she is to help take care of.
She is 12 when the story begins, and it covers the time of one year.
During this time, the family moves, great tragedy occurs to the family, and Maggie helps the family during its darkest times.
I enjoyed the bits of French and Latin mixed into the story.
I would recommend this book to children over 10 as there is tragedy.
This an historical novel set in 1743 Maine.
an indentured servant to be freed at 18, who was "bought" from a poor house by the Sargent family to help them as they move from Marblehead to a homestead in the forests of Maine.
It's a largish family, Dolly and Joel and his brother Ira, their children Caleb (13-14), the twins Becky and Susan (6), Patty (4), Jacob (3), and the baby Debbie.
Being French and Catholic is an additional hurdle for her to overcome.
It touches on British colonization and conflict with the French and Indians.
I read this aloud to my daughter as part of our homeschool history curriculum. It's a realistic portrayal (including the language and prejudices) of what life might have been like during this time period settling a wild, remote location. While it's not my favorite of this genre, it's well done and enjoyable with a likeable heroine.
It took us a little bit to get into this story but by the end my 9 yo daughter was sad for it to be over. She wanted to know what happened next.There was a bit of French and Latin that wasn't ever translated and was slightly frustrating, but we could figure from context roughly what was being said.
This is an old book, but it tells an interesting tale of a family and their bound girl who leave the civilized area of the U.S. headed for Maine. They are to find a homestead and start life anew there. Indians, bad weather, neighbors are all involved. "Maggie" must find strengths she didn't know she had.
Ok I do not know if it’s just me but it probably is. I did not like this book, it was really boring to me and I had a hard time reading this book! I rate this a two because it was really boring, but the writing was kind of good! I think she did a great job with this book just I don’t think this book was for me!
I read this in Elementary school and loved it very much. This time I re-read it with Canon and we both enjoyed it. I would have given it 5 stars when I was in elementary school, and now maybe 4. love it!
A lovely old-fashioned story of pioneer days on the Maine coast. If you're a fan of the Little House books, you'll enjoy this.
It wasn't a particularly exciting read, but it was a good time-capsule of that time in American history. I enjoyed reading Hitty more.
This was an enjoyable book mostly about how harsh it was to live in the British colonies during the mid 1700’s. The story was filled with many adventures and sad tales of hardship so I think it should be read by kids ten and older.
Calico Bush by Rachel Field, illustrated by Allen Lewis is the story of 13 year old Marguerite Ledoux, an orphaned French girl, who travels to colonial Maine with the Sargent family as their bound-girl, where her courage and ability to withstand hardships becomes apparent.
Lewis' wood engravings give an authentic feel to this historical novel.Despite a text with several prejudicial references to "Injuns" and a rude comment about a cross-eyed person, which will offend modern sensibilities, Calico Bush provides a fairly authentic look at colonial life in New England.
First published in 1931, this book tells the story of Marguerite "Maggie" Ledoux, a 12-year-old French orphan who is bound-out to a Massachusetts family as they head up the coast to settle in Maine.
The journey is difficult and though Marguerite is treated kindly, the Sargent family do not understand or like Marguerite's French ways and Marguerite feels like an outsider.
This is a Newbury Honor book, though it may be difficult for modern readers to understand the historical usage of derogatory terminology used to describe the Indians and their traditional ways.
A good story of the happenings and heartbreaks of a family who, in 1743, move from the colony of Massachusetts to the wild Maine coast, told from the viewpoint of a 12yo French girl, Marguerite.
Marguerite is orphaned and living with her grandmother and uncle, but when they die soon after coming to the New World, she is left with no other option but to be bound to this family who will provide her with life's necessities in exchange for her labor until she turns eighteen.All in all, I think this is a sad story of a strong, but pitiable family and a resourceful, but lonely girl.
An excellent book that follows Marguerite (Maggie), a "Bound-Out" girl from France, through 2 years with the Sargent's (the family she's serving). The book starts with the family's journey from the settled port of Marblehead to wild lands along the northern coast of Maine. The experiences of Marguerite are described so well it almost seems that you are there. An excellent read for children and adults alike.Calico BushCalico Bush was a Newbery Honor Book, a Junior Library Guild Selection, and was listed as one of "Thirty Twentieth-Century Children's Books Every Adult Should Know" by The Horn Book Magazine in 1968.
I always associated it with "The Witch of Blackbird Pond" since the storylines are similar - and I probably first read them around the same time.
I tried several times to search for it online, but couldn't remember the author or title.
I finally found it a few weeks ago by searching online lists of "If you liked The Witch of Blackbird Pond" and then reading a synopsis of any title I didn't recognize.
The title "Calico Bush" didn't ring a bell, but when I read the synopsis, I knew I had found it.
Read the full review here: http://newberyandbeyond.com/newbery-r...The main character of this book, Maggie, gives the reader a window into early colonial life, complete with all its hardships.
You’ll read about indentured servants, harsh weather, illness, death, and conflict with Native Americans (remember that this book was written in 1932, and thus has all the insensitivity you would expect from a book of that time).
I would love to read this book again someday and refresh my memories of it.
I was pre-reading this book to see if it would fit into my son's homeschool curriculum this year.
I ended up deciding not: it was a little slow moving and advanced for him.
She becomes an indentured servant by necessity, and is bound out to a family who settles in Maine back when it was a wilderness.The story is divided by the seasons of the year.
It is the kind of book that is hard to praise by what happens.
Rather, it is a great book because of the effect it has, the sense of time and place.

I wasn't a huge fan of Maggie's story. I found myself getting frustrated at how she was treated and how passive she seemed about the situation. I still don't understand or agree with her final decision, but I guess that makes the story for a lot of people. I really enjoyed the Christmas scene with the Indian and the way Maggie was willing to make friends with those around her. I loved her relationship with the old neighbor lady, which was what kept me reading. Other than those parts, however, I was pretty bored.
The book Calico Bush was about a young girl named Maggie who had to live with another family because she had no family left.
The Sargent family, who took her in, was a rather large family.
They settled on an island in Maine and had to face Indians.
There could be an attack at any time.
Maggie was always watching the young children, weaving clothing, or cooking dinner.
There was never a moment of rest.
Could she be the best addition to the Sargent family?
The author, Rachel Field, did a wonderful job explaining every little detail.
I would definitely recommend this book!
