https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14276.So_Long_See_You_Tomorrow
As his writing life was winding down, Maxwell penned an autobiographical, coming of age story about how events leading up to and following a murder in his small town of Lincoln, Illinois changed his perceptions of life.
Resulting was So Long, See You Tomorrow, a perceptive novella which garnered the American Book Award.Born in 1908, Maxwell enjoyed life in small town Lincoln, Illinois.
It was there, that he remarried Maxwell's stepmother Grace McGrath, and at age thirteen, the narrator met companion Cletus Smith, the focal point of this story.Smith had moved into town with his mother following a tragic event that had upset the fabric of the town.
(Martin Amis'  London Fields is a novel of this sort, though vastly different in narrative structure, technique, diction etc.) What's fascinating is William Maxwell's ability to produce gripping suspense even though we know what's going to happen next.
In a letter Hemingway once said, criticizing Faulkner, and here I paraphrase, that true literature, when it works, doesn't give away its methods; that even on second or third reading it somehow transcends its limitations as a text; whereas with Faulkner on a second reading "you can see how he's tricked you." William Maxwell's novella So Long, See You Tomorrow is clearly in that other, loftier, transcendent category.
It’s no secret that this novella is an old man’s recollection of a tragic episode from his childhood…a love triangle and murder in a small, Illinois farm town in the early 1920s.
I’m not sure what astonished me more…the notion that an abandoned family dog would have a voice in the story or that I found her tale even more painfully gut-wrenching than everyone else in this tragic novel.
Finally, this story resonates with me personally…undoubtedly because I’m the granddaughter of Eastern Colorado dry land farmers… and my own parents (contemporaries of this author) lived their whole lives in that small farming community where I grew up.
The framework of the story is about a murder, yes, but William Maxwell tells us all the salacious details in the first chapter: farmers, neighbours, best friends, Clarence and Lloyd, become mortal enemies when Lloyd has an affair with Clarence's wife.
He tells the reader "if any part of the following mixture of truth and fiction strikes the reader as unconvincing, he has my permission to disregard it." He directs us to imagine Cletus' story as a deck of cards face down, turning each one over to see various (fictitious?) facets of the boy's experience.
Sometimes small, apparently insignificant actions can haunt one forever.
A horrible event destroys two families, but it is a small, spur of the moment action that causes him regret for the rest of his life.The writing is beautiful, and with few words much is conveyed.
#####Note:The narrator says: “What we, or at any rate what I, refer to confidently as memory – meaning a moment, a scene, a fact that has been subjected to a fixative and thereby rescued from oblivion – is really a form of storytelling that goes on continually in the mind and often changes with the telling.” Julian Barnes in his novel The Sense of an Ending expands on this idea.
The last time I felt such mind blowing concision was when I read "The Great Gatsby" for the first time.
This is a true feat of the heart and mind.I was also lucky enough to read this masterpiece with a most luminous and intelligent introduction by Ann Patchett.
Obviously enamoured with this piece of work, she writes the following:""So Long, See You Tomorrow" is structured not like a novel, but like the inner workings of the human brain.
It is an exercise in compassion."Ann Patchett chose this novel as one to pass on to future generations.
So. This novel is indisputably a 5-star book by any criterion.
Each sentence is one the current crop of MFA-wielding authors dream of having penned.
It becomes only more intense, lyrical, disturbing, resonant as it progresses to its end.
These 2 friends' reviews do it justice and are lyrical in their own right.
https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Keep your eye on the title.
It's difficult to imagine a spoiler alert being necessary with respect to a novel that discloses the last event and its perpetrator early on.
In every other way novels are appraised, evaluated, measured, SOSYT is perfect for any and every reader.
One of the best depictions of the effect on children (and a dog!) of marital discord I’ve ever read.
This small book manages to say so much about life across the generations with, at its root, the recognition of the importance of ritual for children and the damage that can ensue when a married couple no longer have anything new to offer each other.
His obsessive interest in the murder is the result of the guilt he feels for snubbing the murderer’s son one day at school.
But almost everything about this novel feels fresh.
Most of all though it’s the children’s dislocation we feel.
This one is a short but near perfect novel.The narrator looks back after many years at his boyhood in rural Illinois.
The account starts with two tragic events - the death of the narrator's mother in the post-war flu epidemic and the shooting of a tenant farmer by his neighbour and former friend in a tragic romantic triangle.
The narrator is haunted by the thought that he could have done more for his friend, the son of the murderer, and the book gradually plays out the drama as the narrator imagines it.
And as I approached the end, I lingered over the sentences, rereading them: slight though they may seem, they are so worth it.This slim novel is a perfect example of why a writer writes, how an incident can linger and fester until he works it out of his thoughts and memories, and still it is there, on the page, yes, but not worked out: it has merely become a different entity.(May 20, 2012)Update: A reread finished this evening and a wish fulfilled.(July 19, 2015)Another reread: The other night, rather late, I started reading this, as I felt the need of a ‘comfort’ read, which might seem odd, as this story is so sad.
Though it was my third read of this novel, the final chapter lost none of its power: it was just as beautiful and devastating as the first time.(June 5, 2017)
A Most Vehement Flame"jealousy is cruel as the grave: the coals thereof are coals of fire, which hath a most vehement flame"Solomon 8:6, King James BibleThis short novel about a 1921 murder-suicide in a small Illinois farming town mesmerized me.
What particularly haunts the narrator though is an event magnified in his mind in a later brief encounter with the friend, after which the friend disappeared from his life.A raw, jarring novel I highly recommend.
Written more than forty years after They Came Like Swallows, this book takes up the story of Bunny where it left off in that book.
But I didn’t know until that moment whether the book would work out or not.Originally the first sentence was, “Very few families escape disasters of one kind or another.” When The New Yorker bought it, the editors were troubled by the fact that for the first twenty pages it read like reminiscence.
Too many conflicting emotional interests are involved for life ever to be wholly acceptable, and possibly it is the work of the storyteller to rearrange things so that they conform to this end.
(p 27)In this shattering, though very simple, piece, Maxwell writes the story of mid-western boys, one looking back on his childhood and remembering the other boy caught up in the vortex of a murder on a farm.
Take away the cow barn where the cats, sitting all in a row, wait with their mouths wide open for somebody to squirt milk down their throats.
LA PERDITA DELL' INNOCENZA, IL CONFINE DELLA MATURITÀWilliam Maxwell è stato l’editor più importante della rivista The New Yorker dal 1936 al 1975, dall’età di 28 a quella di 67 anni: per tre giorni alla settimana era in redazione a fare l’editor (di gente come Nabokov, Updike, Salinger, Cheever, Isaac Bashevis Singer, Mavis Gallant, Frank O’Connor, Maeve Brennan, Eudora Welty, John O’Hara e altri) e per quattro giorni restava a casa a scrivere la sua letteratura.“So Long, See You Tomorrow”, pubblicato nel 1980, è considerata la sua vetta, un eccellente romanzo breve, descritto dalla Gallant, come un palloncino trattenuto che poi prende il volo.Mi ha fatto tornare in mente Harold Brodkey e i suoi racconti “Primo amore e altri affanni”, gli umori sono molto prossimi.
The wind blows hard across the prairie and into small-town Lincoln, Illinois.
There might as well not be walls in the farmhouses in Lincoln, Illinois.
The gossip blows hard, too.
And young boys struggle with the transparent doings of mothers and fathers.William Maxwell uses such a young boy to narrate part of this story.
There's shame, fifty years later.Because sometimes boys become friends just because one of them shows up the next day.
And as such friends will do, they end their day with, So long, see you tomorrow.Then something happens.
Those transparent doings of mothers and fathers, maybe.
And there's shame, fifty years later.
Although he is now an old man, he still feels guilt that he did not reach out and offer support to his friend after a tragedy.The narrator's life fell apart when his mother died in the influenza epidemic of 1918.
It was a difficult time for the sensitive ten-year-old boy.The second great loss occurs a few years later in the Illinois farmland where his friend Cletus resides.
But Cletus' dog vocalizes for the two families as she howls in the night, expressing her feelings of loss and abandonment.Maxwell is best known for his work as the former fiction editor at "The New Yorker".
However, the other day, when my feed showed TWO people adding William Maxwell's So Long, See You Tomorrow, I figured that it must be a sign, so pushing my other reading aside, I grabbed my copy of the book and asked Anne if I could read along.
A mistake that I see clearly now.It was with this reading that I actually realized how masterfully Maxwell guides us through two stories with one encircling the other and the importance of this narrative structure.
I can honestly say that my appreciation for William Maxwell (and this book in particular) has greatly matured -- this is real whereas before it was just puppy love.
I love it when an author can tell a "big" story in so few words. This is the sad telling of the aftermath of murder which occurred in a rural community in the 1920's. We even get to hear the dog's prospective (which is heartbreaking by the way). Good book. I would recommend to most everyone.
In straightforward and concise prose, seriously not a word is wasted they all have incredible meaning, Maxwell conveys the loss of innocence of two boyhood friends.
This book is so short but the words and the story are so tall.
One of the four 1920's books I am presently reading, by a Chicago author I had never heard of, and it was very very good.
The characters, their lives on the farm, the women, the children and even the dog are fully realized characters and all in these short pages.
Must read more of this author.
Not even a bleep upon the literary radar. Minor, with interspersed Gothickish elements here and there. Nothing to write home about! ... Bleh.
The most heart-breaking novel I've ever read (with John Williams' Stoner a close second). I've read it several times, taught it twice, and the ending never fails to put a lump in my throat.
A Hymn to the Midwest The sound was not a car backfiring; a tenant farmer named Lloyd Wilson had just been shot and killed, and what they heard was the gun that killed him.[ . . . ]I very much doubt that I would have remembered for more than fifty years the murder of a tenant farmer I never laid eyes on if (1) the murderer hadn’t been the father of somebody I knew, and (2) I hadn’t later on done something I was ashamed of afterward. This memoir—if that’s the right name for it—is a roundabout, f
The rest of the novel expands slowly, in the unhurried manner of Midwest farm country in the twenties.The first half of the book is a Bildungsroman of great beauty, following the unnamed narrator from childhood through high school.
I opened it and read part of a long letter from Giacometti to Matisse describing how he came to do a certain piece of sculpture—Palace at 4 a.m.—it’s in the Museum of Modern Art—and I said, “There’s my novel!” It was as simple as that.
It's particularly silly, because I've read possibly three entire books about William Maxwell, and certainly plenty of his New Yorker stuff, just in the way one reads randomly bits of things over the years, and they accrue, and one day, you realize, Hello, I haven't read any books by this writer that EVERYONE ADORES.
Maxwell was an incredible person by all accounts - I read MY MENTOR, the Alec Wilkinson book about him, as well as a straight bio, and another anthology book written by a variety of his friends about him, after he passed away.
Great writing and I liked the story-within-a-story framing, but the large cast of characters with similar surnames confused me at times. I also cared a lot more about Trixie the dog than any of the humans, but maybe that was intentional. Poor thing.
I sought it out after learning that Ann Patchett lists it as one of her favorite books.The story is very simple: It's a man trying to make sense of a murder that happened in his small town in Illinois in the 1920s.
For example, this is how the story begins:"The gravel pit was about a mile east of town, and the size of a small lake, and so deep that boys under sixteen were forbidden by their parents to swim there.
There’s no way a single read is sufficient for me to review this burning revelation of the soul.
“How was it that she didn’t realize it was going to last such a short time.”If anyone should ever ask me to recommend a work of fiction that sums up the human condition, passing this book along, I’ll reply, “Sit down.
And it wasn’t just the dog howling, it was all the dogs she was descended from, clear back to some wolf or other.”I feel that admitting you howled at a book is review enough.
Now, fifty years later, he looks back at the murder / suicide and how his friend, who he ignored and failed to help, must have felt.
With the result that how things could be made to look was what counted, not how they actually were.”“In any case, in talking about the past we lie with every breath we draw.”I liked this sentence too:“New York (City) is a place where you can weep on the sidewalk in perfect privacy.”Even if I admit that there is good writing, I found myself too distracted by the time switches, jumps between different themes and unclear usage of pronouns to pay attention to the writing.The author reads the audiobook, He Is not a trained narrator and it shows.
The murderer was the father of a playmate (Cletus Smith) whose companionship the narrator treasured for blunting the grief he felt when his father remarried after his mother’s death.
“So long, see you tomorrow” was the boys’ parting shot until the murder, which brought to an abrupt end their mutually therapeutic playtime.
The narrator reflected on the ambivalence (a seeming alloy of aloofness and tenderness) of his relationship with his father: "We were both creatures of the period."I guess in reading a book, each reader finds himself or herself anchored in parts of the story that struck a chord.
4.5*"Maxwell consegue algo que só os maiores romancistas conseguem: transforma a dor e as mágoas profundas em palavras de uma brilhante simplicidade."Anthony Quinn, ObserverUm livro precioso, uma escrita delicada de uma subtileza que nos leva a desvendar nas entrelinhas o que de mais profundo nos conta. Uma história de amizades, amores, traições, crime e arrependimento. Um regresso ao passado e uma tentativa de recriação e redenção.Só não leva 5* porque o antecessor, Vieram como Andorinhas, consegue o prodígio de ser ainda melhor.
The narrator writes about his estrangement from his father and the further losses that occurred over time, but there is a bright spot, his friendship with another boy formed while playing on the scaffolding of the narrator’s half-built house:“Whatever I suggested doing we did.
He must have understood that I was going to live in this house when it was finished, but it didn’t occur to me to wonder where he lived”.Remembering his friend decades later, the second half of the book is the narrator’s reconstruction of the events that lead up to the murder.
