https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2255.Way_of_the_Peaceful_Warrior
I haven't been reading or writing much lately, but I did just finish Way of the Peaceful Warrior, a book that was given to me long ago by a friend of my brother.
Infinite gratitude goes to the friend who gave me the book, whose life appears to have changed as well: he has now kicked his heroin addiction, is practicing a vegan diet, and is getting married to a beautiful girl in Hawaii!It's a good thing I didn't read the book when I first received it, because I don't think I was at a stage in my life where I could appreciate such a book, or absorb its insights.
It's a book I can easily see myself re-reading every 5-10 years.The book is a story about how to be mindful and live a happy, aware life - coached in the story of young Berkeley gymnast who meets an old man - who he names Socrates - at a gas station.
Our minds are swimming with the thoughts and worries of our lives, and we lack the easy ability to just be present.
Your mind is like a pond into which someone has just dropped a boulder!"The best way to live in the present moment is to learn to meditate.
The wisdom preached in this book is intense and it is a read that is difficult to put down.
The fourth quarter of the book was painful in its story-telling and while I understand the potential device used to portray that the time away from his teacher was less focused, I feel those 8 years might have at least deserved more than the handful of pages given.
Going to prove that the value of a work truly depends on who you are, from what perspective you are reading, and what you hope to gain from it.
Either he was high when he wrote it or I need to be high to read it.
I still can't believe how truly bad this was, because a friend recommended it based on the alleged monumental effect it had on his life, and it appears to be quite highly rated by the majority of Goodreads readers.
The writing is abominable.
The book purports to teach deep, mysterious lessons of the "warrior's path," and yet I have learned more penetrating lessons watching reruns of "Kung Fu" which, in fact, were far better written and more emotionally stirring than this complete dreck.
If this book changes your life, good for you, I mean it - all my best to you.
Awful. After nearly four months of labored reading, I finished Dan Millman's The Way of the Peaceful Warrior--the literary world's first hollow chocolate bunny. Recommended to me by an 8th grade student, I was instantly "in" and excited to dig in. A student handed me this book and I needed to read it for the sheer sake of the connection, the ability to talk about it with him and around other students--this was perfect. The experience and my plan to use it as the great uniter in my classroom unra
After near­ly four months of labored read­ing, I fin­ished Dan Mill­man's The Way of the Peace­ful War­rior--the lit­er­ary world's first hol­low choco­late bunny.
I fin­ished it today with lit­tle good to say about it--actually, I am more aston­ished that its sold mil­lions and touts itself as "the book that changes lives." Over the course of the past four months, I've read three other books, start­ed anoth­er, and have sev­er­al wait­ing in the wings--I just could not wait to clear this off my plate, yet rarely want­ed to pick it up to work through it.
Dan leaves the ser­vice station--its night employ­ee just died in a toi­let flambe--and no one is left to pump the gas.
While this book may be 'too simple' for some literary types, I feel it is an excellent story that can speak to all people from all walks of life. It takes an 'Average Joe' type and follows his unfolding toward true self-awareness. Millman's approach makes deep stuff an easy and enjoyable read. It's refreshing compared to some of the "serious elitist" spiritual books that are out there. I have read it 5 times and get so many new things from it each time I read it...it's definitely a timeless gift that does in fact "change lives"...kudos to Dan!
Precious lessons:- There are no ordinary moments.- The time is now, the place is here.Live until you die!Thank you, Dan MillmanWhat time is it?Now.Where are you?Here.
I hate that they made a movie about this book. I think it cheapened the message. It is beautifully written and well worth the time, as is the book that follows this one...
As a mother I found myself wondering how he could abandon his daughter so easily and not rate her a mention in his life.
I found myself struggling with the same aspect of the Buddhas life as well (not mentioned in this book but just an observation of mine).
I think I need to go and find some stories about women achieving enlightenment through everyday means, women awakening through being mothers - finding their divinity through piles of dirty nappies and sleepless nights with sick children...
In the story, Dan, a young gymnast, meets a attendant at a gas station late one night who makes an impression on him.
He gives the old man the nickname "Socrates", and ends up becoming his protege.I'm always skeptical of people who claim that the only way to achieve true happiness and peace of mind is to subscribe to their philosophy 100%, but this was okay, well worth the read.
I didn't get from it what other people have, but I enjoyed it enough to read more of Dan Millman's books in the future.
i'm not particularly sold on Zen, though i suppose there are some basic Life Lessons you could glean from this novel: detach yourself from the need to acquire worldly goods, remember we're all part of everything else, etc.
sometimes, you get those lessons he learns; but then when he has out of body experiences, the text gets all loopy and circular, making the reader feel a bit like they're reading about an acid trip.
overall, it was interesting; i'll definitely watch the film to compare, but the novel was probably just a bit too far out for me.
This book is Millman's vain attempt to weave a supernatural/"esoteric" story out of his - in my opinion pitiful - new age inspired search for meaning and fulfilment in life.
To be honest, I can't even understand how Millman could get this piece of balderdash (yes, I just used that word for the first time in my life!) published.This book is a waste of time and is only recommended for people who are very confused about themselves and their lives, and who would like to get even more confused by being sent down hocus-pocus rabbit hole.
Днес в една дискусия за Стивън Кинг (не тук), една жена заяви, че не чете негови книги, защото се интересувала от потенциала на човека, а не от неговите изродщини, като даде за пример “Пътят на мирния воин” на Дан Милман, в която също била показвана тъмната човешка страна, но по вдъхновяващ, а не по ужасяващ начин.
Дан Милман е много зле като писател и аз се чудя да плача или да се смея от факта, че той преподава писане.
Най-хубавото от цялото ми изживяване с “Пътят на мирния воин” е представата ми как Айн Ранд би се въртяла с писъци в гроба ако чуе някои особености от философията на тази книга.
I blame the authors lack of skill at this moment in his life ....he apparently wrote 9 more books , and I must assume he got better.
This book did have a few moments of clear thought , fair philosophy , and profound statements.
I also get the feeling that the few parts of the book that had impactful messages were not written by the author but copied out of an eastern philosophy didactic.
Also , some aspects that I feel are poor philosophy in a world of doers.
this is a book that changes lives.
it changes your life as you read it in small seemingly insignificant ways.
yet you begin to realize your impact you have on all those around you and more importantly the impact you have on yourself.
how much you influence how you see the world and how much you live in the world.
we need to stand back and look inside ourselves.
look at what we like and especially what we don't like.
realize your own self potential.
i love this book because it reminds me of my humanity and reminds me of my divinity.
That is real meditation; that is how you cut free of the mind.Ultimately, you will learn to meditate your every action.Because your greatest fear is death and your deepest craving is survival.
And only then can you make the warrior's free choice--to do or not to do.Responsibility means recognizing both pleasure and price, making a choice based on that recognition, and then living with that choice without concern.So whether or not my behavior meets your new standards or not, it should be clear to you that I have mastered all compulsions, all behavior.
This book is great for people who are struggling to find out the important things in life.
It is a good life lesson, and it uses powerful words and sayings that help the reader better understand the importance of the book.
It is very inspiring to read this story, because it shows how one person could see what his mistakes were, learn how to fix them, fix them and then become a brand new man.
The book shows many ways that a person can change their life for the better.
It shows how love is the main and most important aspect of life.
Gründe, weshalb ich das Buch nicht empfehlen würde:- schon das "dieses Buch, das Leben verändert" wirkt reißerisch - der Schreibstil ist holperig und so mitreißend wie eine fünfstündige Dokumentation über Rechtsverordnungen als historische Textsorte- die "weltbewegende Lehre" besteht eigentlich aus den buddhistischen Grundsätzen gepaart mit der Weltanschauung eines Spinners oder einer Sekte - insbesondere dieser Zwang der von der Lehre ausging, gefiel mir überhaupt nicht!
Passt überhaupt nicht zu diesem biografischen Touch- oder was auch immer das Buch sein will!Alles in allem habe ich das Buch eine Weile lang weitergelesen, weil hier und da ganz interessante Gedanken formuliert waren, aber generell ist mir das zu krass eingefärbt!
For a complete newbie, this might be just what you need to open up new vistas of thought.Be aware though, This book only constitutes the beginning of a journey, and in my opinion, a very flawed start, but if it's what gets you asking questions, then so be it.Like most self help/new age spirituality novels, Way of the Peaceful Warrior tries to have it both ways, and ultimately fails.
i read this book in about five hours on an airplane.
i can see how it would grate on your nerves if you weren't in the right mental place/place in your life to read it.
i just sort of read around the annoying crap and it was good for me.
otherwise you'll be all like, "puh-leeeeeeeeeeeeeeeease!"there is this one part though, i think it's the most important part, right at the end, and i'm putting it in here so you can just skip the whole thing and get right to the point.
it never ends.
Because it is a true story and true stories are part of life and don't fit into neat categories." "Sorry, the middlemen who supply the bookshops won't touch it if it doesn't fit neatly into a category so neither will we." And so his book rights were returned to him and the book sat in the 'out of print section' for three years until another publisher took it up but it then took him at least two years to persuade the bookstore chains to put just one copy in each store and .............................'Then something magical happened- something called word of mouth."It then went on to become a bestseller!So to all of you budding authors out there reading this by the light and heat of burning rejection slips I say; "Let's all fall down on our bended knees tonight and pray to the god of Word Of Mouth that he blows just a little of his stardust in our direction."
I'm going to keep this one short, or at least try to, because, to put it simply, this book was a huge disappointment.Loosely based on the spiritual journey and personality transformations of the author's youth, the story ended up far too fictionalized and fantastic to remain credible.
The life lessons that can be taken from it are good, don't get me wrong, but in the end it just felt like the same old self-help seminar in new packaging; while it's certainly more interesting than sitting through a two-hour lecture, it's also a lot more of a time commitment to take away the same basic concepts.
While the material might be new and life-altering to some, it was little more than a chore for me at this time.
Yes, I finished it (yecch), but like a meal which one eats at the in-laws house as to not offend them, it left me with indigestion.What really ticked me off was that it's presented as a true story by Millman, but then he goes off on these hallucinogenic tangents that are NOT "real life" (yes, he may have experienced them allegorically), which just cheapens the whole thing as he passes them off as "god's honest truth" (I swear he really just jumped up on top of the gas station, really!)Not recommended for people SERIOUS about changing their lives.
I read this book in French so maybe it's a translation problem, but I just couldn't get past Millman's seemingly boastful tone. Even the title seems presumptuous. I realize the focus is supposed to be on Socrates' teachings - much of which is genuinely interesting - but I found myself being continually irritated by the author's way of talking about himself. Somehow it rubbed me the wrong way. And I might just be too cynical, but the frequent inspirational quotes were a little much.
Depending on your choice of vocabulary, you may have used these or any other words to describe it.It is the state where your awareness is focused on the now without judgement of what your mind is throwing up.
Thoughts that your mind generate are neither positive nor negative until you focus your awareness on to them allowing you to assign them a label via a judgement.
They are habits.When you let your mind lead the way, all of your happiness and sadness is dependent upon whatever habit you spent a lifetime cultivating.But when you are instead aware of only the present moment, you remove yourself being reactive to situations.
One part I responded to was when his teacher touched his head and sent him on a hallucinogenic trip across the world where he realized (pg 42) “The world was peopled with minds, whirling faster than any wind, in search of distraction and escape from the predicament of change, the dilemma of life and death-seeking purpose, security, enjoyment, trying to make sense of the mystery.
My own body became a radiant prism, throwing splinters of multicolored light everywhere.
And it came to me that the highest purpose of the human body is to become a clear channel for this light- so that its brightness can dissolve all obstructions, all knots, all resistance.
Right from the start, I was yearning to hear Dan Millman's true story, not a fake one.
As a guide to changing lives, as the title suggests, I applaud the author's efforts to introduce spiritual elements into everyday living.
There doesn't seem much point in reading a fake autobiography unless it has a good story arc.
If it's going to be a novel, I would've been more interested in a captivating story that demonstrates spiritual growth and development rather than fictional characters telling me how to do it.
However, I'd rather Dan just write a autobiography that's true.
A subplot with a romance feels quite forced, as if the author figured he better put in some romance so people can relate to the book better and find it interesting enough to begin reading it.
I suspect mostly young people read this and find it amazing.
Older people have read other books and discovered that there are flaws in the philosophy.
People who are chronically depressed, who cope with schizophrenia, and other mental illness, don't need to be told just be happy with the implication that you are failing spirituality if you can't just decide to be happy.
This was the first self help book that completely swept me off my feet. It's not just self help...but a journey to unleash your soul and your inner passion! EVERY lover of books should read this wonderful story! 10 stars
