https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/775597.Caps_for_Sale
There once was a peddler who sold caps...he walked through town calling "Caps, caps for sale, fifty cents a cap." A timeless classic that we have probably read 100 times and one of all of our favorite books. This time I read it to my daughter's class. I had them play the role of the monkeys and they had much fun acting out their parts. And in the end the peddler walked back to town calling "caps, caps for sale, 50 cents a cap."
Wow!
The kids really loved this one.
They went crazy over it.
I think it's the monkeys.
I would give it 4 stars, but they got into it so much that I have to give it 5.The art feels pretty bland to me, not distinctive and yet the story is compelling.
Something about all the monkeys in the trees.
I don't really understand why this story works, it just does.
I'm glad I read it.
I think it would mean more if I read it in my childhood, but my niece and nephew really loved it.
A hat peddler travels through town, trying to sell his wares.
He soon locates the thieves in the same tree that allowed him to rest, but it will take some cunning behaviours to ensure that the hats return to the peddler in time for him to make a few sales before the sun goes down.
Neo laughed when he saw what happened to the peddler and got a chuckle out of how things were handled.
He asked me why we do not see hat peddlers walking around and selling things in town.
He nodded and went back to looking for peddlers on the sidewalk ;-)
I've had this touch of nostalgia lately...so, tonight I came across this book and I thought 'What the hell, why not review it and subject the GR community to my musings'--Keep in mind that it's 4:13am and I've had a shitty night.That said, Caps for Sale was a favorite of mine when I was young.
Not a stitch of family around, obviously in distress, and I'm listening to her read Caps for Sale for the first time.
Yeah, not your typical review, but just a thought on how one book can mean so much and so little to two very different girls.
Caps, caps for sale, fifty cents a cap........This was the cry of the peddler who went through the town with a myriad of colorful caps piled high upon his head.
But what happens to the caps when the poor peddler takes a nap under the tree will have you and your children laughing gleefully!
I read this story a thousand or more times to each of my own children, all of our neighborhood kids, anyone who would sit still!
I still have it memorized to this day and it still is our favorite story of all!
No fancy computer generated illustrations--just a bright, limited palette. No characters with their own TV show. No farting dogs, no cool pullouts or lift the flaps. Just a simple little story about "a peddler, some monkeys and their monkey business"But for 60 years kids have read and loved this story. I have never had a group of kids who didn't have fun shaking their fingers and stomping their feet along with the monkeys.This is what a true "classic" is all about!
I stuck it in my bag, along with Once Upon a Royal Superbaby, and on the bus ride home I read the book.
There's no way this is going to be able to compete with that superbaby book!"Huh. Shows what I know!
My sister and I looked at each other in amazement, and I shrugged and said, "I know, right?!" The kids made me read Caps for Sale five times, and then they took it home so my sister could read it to them again later.
A wonderful memory from the past...what a great lesson on the futility of anger!
You monkeys, you! You give me back my caps!!!
This peddler is a goddamn cheat. I don't blame the monkeys.OCCUPY CAPS!Can't wait to read this.
All the peddler wanted to do was sell some caps and mind his business; the monkeys however had other ideas. This is a great read aloud book for various age levels and of course, the interactive aspect of it will allow for readers to engage more with the story. There is repetition, patterns and colors, all things that are important in early literacy.Find Caps for Sale: A Tale of a Peddler, Some Monkeys and Their Monkey Business at the Westminster Public Library!
This is one of the best books ever.Here is something you don't notice: In the first half of the book, the picture is always on the left page and the text is always on the right page.
The center of the book is the only time that the picture is spread out over two pages.
In the second half of the book, all the pictures are on the right pages and the text is always on the left pages.
This is a great ACTION STORY.
Fifty cents a cap!" When you read the part where the peddler is hungry, rub your tummy.
When he walks out into the country invite the children to stand up (oh so carefully -- so as not to upset your wares) and walk (in place)til you find a tree to nap under.
Sit down (oh so carefully) and check your wares.
When the peddler wakes up you and the children can stretch and then feel your heads for the caps (which are gone!).
You can listen to and view the complete story here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=INptS...
A classic tale that is a perfect story time read.
Esphyr Slobodkina tells of a peddler who carries his wares on his head - selling caps of all colors for 50 cents a cap.
On a day when no one in town is buying, the peddler takes a long nap under a tree.
He awakens to find no caps on his head; instead, the monkeys in the tree are all wearing his caps.
Placing his caps back on his head, off he goes to sell his caps once again.
The patterned language includes a circular plotline as the story ends where it began.
I love this story and the sneaky monkeys.
It is the hat peddler who finds a way to outsmart the monkeys.
My son has a cap that looks like the checkered one worn by the peddler.
Stacking hats on our heads and acting out this story was a favorite game of my grandchildren when they were little.
They loved it when I would say "You monkey you ...
you give me back my caps!" It was a good way to practice posture, trying to walk straight without spilling the hats.
This story has been around since I was a little girl ..
Caps for Sale 75th Anniversary Edition, 9/1/2015 with More Caps for Sale: Another Tale of Mischievous Monkeys on sale 10/27/2015.Read again to the NB, 2, 5, and 7 year old kiddos. 6/29/17 Wayfarers Pathways and SL P3/4 list. Will be on our literature list for our SC2 First Grader.
Good, it was. (Yoda)
A fun story about a man selling caps but something curious happens when he falls asleep!
3.5/5A book about a peddler selling hats who takes a nap and has to deal with some mischievous monkeys!
Monkey see monkey do
Caps For SaleThis is a stroy about a peddler and a group monkeys.
One day, the strange peddler sold his caps.
He walked up and down the streets to sell his caps.
Then, he found a group of monkey wore his caps.
In this story, I felt the group monkey just like a group a children.
Also, in china, many mothers like to call their children who are very naughty monkeys.
Maybe sometimes children are very naughty and parents are so angry about that.
I think if parents can play with children, they will understand their minds and understand their children’s behaviors.
He demands his caps, but the monkeys do not give them back (perhaps they do not speak English; must gather more information; cannot be certain).
Surprisingly, the monkeys also throw their caps down to the ground and now our nameless soul can gather up his merchandise (I have deduced that the monkeys operate on the philosophical foundation of mimicry.)So he gathers his caps up and goes back to town to sell them.
Please tell me he sells at least one cap that day and can afford a meal.
Still depressing.)Pros: Monkeys with caps.
3/7/12Maybe a little long for the 2 year old and a little simple for the 5 year old, but they all enjoyed the 5 little Monkeys jumping on the bed, and most enjoyed the action rhyme 5 little monkeys sitting in a tree.3/5/13This really worked well with my story time, which is mostly 2's, with a few 3's.
3/13/13Used again for my monkey story time, after Monkey See, Monkey Do action rhyme and it was as big a hit as ever.
3/9/15Used in Story Time with the song and the 5 Little Monkeys Sitting in a Tree finger play.
Summary:  Subtitled A Tale of a Peddler, Some Monkeys and Their Monkey Business, this absurd and very simple story has become a classic, selling hundreds of thousands of copies since its first publication in 1940. A peddler walks around selling caps from a tall, tottering pile on his head. Unable to sell a single cap one morning, he walks out into the countryside, sits down under a tree, checks that all the caps are in place, and falls asleep. When he wakes up, the caps are gone--and the tree is
Summary: 	Subtitled A Tale of a Peddler, Some Monkeys and Their Monkey Business, this absurd and very simple story has become a classic, selling hundreds of thousands of copies since its first publication in 1940.
A peddler walks around selling caps from a tall, tottering pile on his head.
Unable to sell a single cap one morning, he walks out into the countryside, sits down under a tree, checks that all the caps are in place, and falls asleep.
(Preschool and older) --Richard FarrPotential Audience (Reading level): Early / TransitionalGenre: Picture Book / Tall TalesTopic: Taking pride in personal property, problem solvingSpecific Curricular uses: Read Aloud: children can act out the actions in the story.
Use this story as an excuse to get children up on their feet to do the actions with the peddler and the monkeys!Pantomime putting caps on your head -- first your own checked cap, then the gray caps, then the brown caps, then the blue caps, and the red caps up on top.
Next stand up very straight and walk in place (very carefully so as not to topple the caps).
Look to the right (you look to the left, as the children are mirroring you).
Look up (now the children get to be monkeys).
The peddler finds that a misfit band of monkeys has stolen his caps.
The story's prose, written in a larger typeface, is ideal for emerging readers, who will be easily able to memorize the repeating verses, such as the order in which the peddler stacks his caps by color.
Children will no doubt delight in the trickster monkeys and their antics, as well as with the peddler's fuming frustration.
Children who enjoy identifying colors, however, may experience some confusion with Slobodkina's color palette; the "blue" hats appear more gray, while the "brown" hats appear to be more mustard.
A peddler who sells hats decides to take a nap after a slow day of not selling any caps.
While the peddler naps, some mischievous little monkeys steal the peddlers caps.
Upon awakening, the peddler demands the monkeys return his caps.
Other math uses include money concepts such as determining how much the peddler would make if he sold each cap for a certain amount or having the students make paper representations of the colored caps and graphing them together (bar graphs, tally marks, etc).
A peddler sets out one day to sell caps.
No one wants to buy a cap that day, so he decides to take a nap under a tree.
When he wakes up, his caps are gone, leaving just his grey checked cap!
He finally looks up and sees a tree full of monkeys, each one wearing a cap.
Exasperated, the peddler throws his grey checked cap on the ground and the monkeys throw down their caps, too!This classic book, first published in 1940, features simple illustrations of the mustached peddler and the cheeky monkeys.
Full Review at Picture-Book-a-Day: http://picturebookaday.blogspot.com/2...
My peers did not question this decision for a moment, but instead fell in line as monkeys, mimicking my movements as our parents watched.Life was good.
The most attractive girl in the school was my girlfriend, I was always selected to play the role of He-Man on the playground, I could perform arithmetic and read well past my years, and others sought to lie near me during naptime.
I'd be declared allergic to wheat, sugar, soy, and just about everything good in life.
I'd heard of this book for years and years but never read it until I snagged a free copy from our local library's used book bin.
I now understand why I heard about this book for years and years.
This folk-tale-like story is engaging but simple, as are the illustrations.A peddler walks slowly through the village with his wares -- many different-colored caps -- stacked high on his head.
When he wakes up, he finds that all but one of his caps are gone -- stolen by a band of monkeys perched in the tree.The peddler is furious, of course.
