https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/714711.You_Can_Win

লজজা শরমের মাথা খেয়েই বলতে হয়, যে এককালে এই ‘তুমিও জিতবে’ পড়ে বেশ উপকৃত হয়েছি। তখন নতুন ঢাকায় এসেছি। বুয়েটের পরথম বরষ। আশেপাশে সবাই দারুণ সমারট। ওদিকে আমি জীবনে দু-পাতা অংক বিজঞান ছাড়া তেমন কিছুই শিখিনি। সযোশাল সকিল জিরোর কোটায়। কারো সাথে মিশতে পারি না। একা একা কোনা-কানাচে পড়ে থাকি। এইসময় নীলকষেতে পেয়ে গেলাম এই বই। শিব খেরার তুমিও জিতবে। বযাস লজজা শরমের মাথা খেয়ে কিনে ফেললাম। সেলফ-হেলপ টাইপ বইগুলো কেন যেন আমাদের সমাজে এখনও টযাবো। তার উপর এই বই কেনার অরথ হলো নিজেকে লুজার হিসাবে সবীকার করে নেওয়া।

You can win is a book reading which not even a single human on earth can get bore.The book is loaded with educational stories and How-to's.Must be read by every person."After every point tell a story, after every story make a point."
A book of treasures. Such a powerful book, you can read, whenever and where ever.... and you will still learn something new from it every time. Absolute favourite.
Its a very amazing read . Its tells to have a positive approach to life . The best think is it has real life examples , which you can relate and create a benchmark. people now a days lives in a very fast life , and this books can tell you the correct and wrong ways ...
good book, collection of a lot inspiring stories and example, good selection of words, simply says: dare to dream, plan to get the dream in true, work as per plan, that's all.
the book "U CAN WIN" is truly a lovely book ,in which whole secrets to have & live a happy life is defined..
I really loves the stories....because they provide us a new way of thinking ...about...
In one sense, this book is a construction manual.
It describes the tools you will need for success, and offers blueprints to help you build a successful and rewarding life.
In a second, sense, it is a cookbook.
But, above all, this is a guidebook a step by step, how to book that will take you from dreaming about success to unlocking your potential for success
Its really an awesome book. The quotes and stories given in this book are much related to our practical life. This book guides us to develop a positive attitude, motivates us and also gives guidance to set and achieve our goal.. By reading this book we can take the correct decision of doing the right thing for right reason.. Life can be changed by reading this book and also teaches us to become a good human..
خوب (قيافه ى خود را چپ و چول مى كند) اما تكرارى ، با داستان هاى پندآموزى كه زياد شنيديم .
it one of the best book i ever studied.bt its very optimistic nd its nt at all possible for anyone t
Nice mix of inspirational quotes and stories. I read it when I was in high school and motivated me through a tough challenge. What I have learnt from this book has so much become a part of me today, that I can't benefit from the book the same way if I were to read it again, but I definitely suggest others to give it a try at least once. It did the right magic at the right time for me.
Well written book on Personality Development.
Simplicity and relevance are the two main factors that make this book to stand out among other Personality Development books.
The author had uncanny talent to mix the content with lot of stories and quotes so that the message does not go over the head.
Mr. Shiv Khera makes an impact in the very first chapter itself with a story of a balloon seller on “Attitude”, from there on you will be hooked to the book.
More and more traits were explained in simple terms with relevant and important anecdotes that make you imbibe the message with ease on an otherwise dry subject.
You can win has surely been a book that has had an incredible sales record. It is one among the most popular among the Indian self help book category. What the book contains is a couple of motivational quotes and stories which have been gathered here. The book has nothing new to offer its readers other than a couple of stale stories. But if you are new to reading and are looking for a simple self help book that could be easily understood, you can pick this up.
looks like a Textbook for preparation for Victory.Victory can't be achieved by reading the handbook.Although there are many thoughts in this book that we can use as a tool for our quest for victory.
It's good self motivational book. But too idealistic I would say, not that applicable in life. But you can read it one time.
Good content to read for the achievers & people who want to reach out to their dreams., many things are practically explained very well with many examples.
However, he doesn't realize that not doing anything is his biggest mistake" --- that quote from this book, You Can Win: A Step by Step Tool for Top Achievers makes me realize my biggest mistake in my whole life.
Shiv Khera inspires me to do the things i can, want, and should do; while keeping in mind that "people fail not because they lack knowledge/talent but because they quit and Societies are not destroyed by the activities of rascals but by the inactivities of good people"Now, I should live while i'm still alive cuz i don't want to die before i'm dead.
XD -->>> "Live while you are alive, don't die before you are dead"
Awesome book. And its not about business, or deals or work. It's about life. And made up of small quotes. Quotes and examples that touch you everyday, day to day. Things you feel and can relate to on a daily basis. Helped me in the worst of my days. On the days when I did not want to get out of bed and 'deal' with anything at all. Life is good and you can indeed win!
This books tells about how to be good to others to succeed in the life. It has more wonderful true examples which depicts a good tale about the individuals who are known to be remembered because of their good deeds in their real life.
This one was referred to me by my dad long time ago...I still have the hard copy with his markings on it. Time to re-read.
The book is written in such a simple language that it is so easy to understand and capture what exactly the author wants to convey....i found the book very motivational..!!!good work..
অণুপরেরণামূলক বই :) ভাল লাগছে ^_^
অণুপ্রেরণামূলক বই :) ভাল লাগছে ^_^
HOW?It asks you to make an action plan by identifying what you want, all options available to achieve that and finally preparing a realistic plan for you.Book You can Win's eight chapter in a very engaging way focus on attitude, success, motivation, self esteem (life blood to keep you going), interpersonal skills, habits, Goal setting (real things start here) and importance of values and vision (without it one feels clueless and unsatisfied even after achieving success).The said training program in 3 days handholds and forces you getting over with task of preparing plan.
i still remember it was summer of 8th when i went to buy a GK book there i saw this book and i was like are you nuts? how can everyone become sucessful; what the rest will do then ? (obviously, i was immature) but then i thought instead of reading GK book lets try this one, Shiv khera is the real teacher who understand his student completely; by giving examples as in stories helps u alot to develop urself as well as to make a blueprint towards achieving goal..:)
what i felt after reading of this book is,h to construct our life and h to empower ourselves and h to over come hurdles in life and the main aim of this book is to eradicate ambiguity and stand or built confidence to reach their destination.Frankly it is a medicine for people who r in depression and frustration.
Once you start reading the book, you will feel a complete transformation in your personality, by the time you end it.You will have become far more positive in your thinking, than you ever used to be.Recommended !
One of the very few books which can be read the various stages of life. I read this first when i was perusing my post graduation. Read agin after 8 years. Every time you read this has something to learn and follow. Great book.
Book is excellent to build confidence in you. This is a nice inspirational book I always like. I read Marathi version of this book also. Very nice book with action points for every day. Nice and easy to implement ideas.
You you want an inspiration keep yourself motivated throughout the day, then this book is highly recommended. I used to read it every morning for the same reason.
Great book, easy to understand... widen your perspective..... Have some really aspiring and nice stories that help you clearing the situation... :)
