https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/396759.The_Tassajara_Bread_Book
I've never used that.Use all 100% whole wheat stone ground flour, if you dare.Make a sponge from all of these ingredients, and let it rise in a warm oven or window (80-85 degrees).Note - if the dough is in a cooler area, rising takes longer.
After kneading, the dough should be smooth, shiny, and, well, spank-able.Again, I like more rising, so:Rise 60 minutes.Punch down.Rise 50 minutes.Punch down.Rise 40 minutes (I know, a WHOLE EXTRA TIME.)Shape into loaves.
Hard to imagine a better bread book, unless it was also vegan. I'm looking forward to trying this out since I believe about half the recipes can be made Vegantastic. I watched a movie years ago that lead me to this book, yet I've never tried my hand at punching dough.
It like books of it's time period, was filled with wisdom, ramblings, ideas, and more importantly a change on how we look at what we do.I've owned 5 or more copies of this book, used them to the point that they were so sticky from bread goops, handling while cooking, that they end up being recycled.
If you use your cook books chances are, they get filled with spills and gobs of stuff stuck, as your following the guidance of the author.So before you decide to find another bread book, (I've tried other methods but this book works the best for me), try this book.
This book primarily focuses on whole grains but it does not deny the existence of unbleached white flower.
This book touts the benefits of the "sponge method" in which the yeast gets started more easily in the absence of the salt which is not added until the very end of the mixing process.
The mixing process is accomplished by folding thus maximizing the incorporation of oxygen.
The other important thing is that your cook book should have at least several pages marked, at least one index card with a family recipe, and it should look well used and well loved.
For example, "Milk makes bread smoother, softer and more cakelike and modifies, masks the 'coarse' grain taste."The recipes are classic and very simple, ranging from the basic Tassajara Yeasted Bread, Potato Bread, and even other cookies and cakes such as Cinnamon Rolls, Pecan Nut Rolls, Lemon Twist Bread, and Kolaches.
Some recipes even have simple line drawings to illustrate processes.I've made a few of the recipes in this book such as the Pecan Nut Roll (delicious) and the Honey Bars and I have yet to be disappointed.I think this is a great book to start out with if you want to learn the art of baking.
bread! can't wait to make some sourdough as soon as I get out from in front of this computer, go get some wheat flour and clean the kitchen! Tassajara is the best intro to bread baking i've ever seen, with detailed instructions on every step from water to sponge to how to knead, rising consistency and baking time. also filled with zen poetry/meditations about food.
A beautiful book with a logical layout. This would be a great gift for a beginning baker.
But really, the layout is appalling.I learned about "The Tassajara Bread Book" after reading the rather lame novel, "Bread Alone" by Judith Ryan Hendricks.
Interspersed through the dumb story, there are some excellent bread recipes.) In the novel, there was a glowing description of banana cinnamon swirl bread but no recipe; just a note to add more bananas to "The Tassajara Bread Book" recipe for Banana Sandwich bread and make it into a cinnamon swirl bread.
The description of the banana bread was so wonderful that I really wanted to make it.So ages ago, I got the Tassajara book out of the library.
Right up there with the original as a book I hold near and dear to my heart.I made the basic batter bread religiously for quite a while when I was a big ole hippie in new mexico, and I would recommend any of these bread recipes/instructions to the novice bread baker as well as someone who just wants to broaden their repetoire.
Like the companion volume "Tassaja Cooking", this is a cooking book which teaches the underlying principles that guide the bread maker. There are recipes, of course, but these are intended as starting points for exploration. This book has a permanent place on my kitchen bookshelf.
Pancakes and waffles to die for.
i'm reading the omnivore's dilemma and remembered this book as being particularly interesting in that apart from the great bread recipes it is also a philosophy of how to view food.
In The Complete Tassajara Cookbook I found an old handed-down recipe called Grandmother Mary's Coffeecake that is so similar to other books' rcipes for Panettone that I brought it to my house immediately to see what else was inside.This book is warm and welcoming and contains much to aid the aspiring break baker.
However, after years of bread baking, I did not find much to entice me...Large, rustic loaves have their place, but my family is not big enough to accomodate them, usually.
But I adored The Complete Tassajara Cookbook: Recipes, Techniques, and Reflections from the Famed Zen Kitchen because there are so many more stories and so much love for the vegetable.
Informative, provocative and funny, Brown serves up a unique combination of inspiring wisdom and kitchen skills that will raise even the most demanding foodie to new spiritual and gastronomic heights" I like the way it's written and how calm I feel when I make bread.
This book just feels right.
I've only made one thing from it, the basil and parmesan cheese flaky biscuits, but I used rosemary instead of basil.
They are a little bland and may be better with a stronger cheese and/or the basil so it will be fun to explore.
I thought I had the bread bible, "The Laurel's Kitchen Bread Book" however, Ed Brown's book also received the "Bread Bible" title from me.
Thick, dense breads with so much flavour - even more flavour than the breads I usually made, based on recipes from Laurel's book - I never thought that would be possible!So now I have two books that I can bounce between when the mood takes me.Recipes I've tried so far:Tibetan Barley Bread: I tried it with sesame seeds, millet and sunflower seeds.
The millet made the bread slightly more moist, a plus, but all the breads tasted wonderful!Overnight Unyeasted Bread:Simply wonderful.
I've always loved bread, and attempted to learn how to bake some myself from this book.
I eventually tried again, and learned to make a fast loaf of bread from another old cookbook of my mom's, a 1950's version of The Joy of Cooking.
As my tastes broadened, I found my way back to this book.
I made a few of the recipes, and loved the way they taste.
Worth the effort of sifting through the wordy hippy-ness that is the Tassajara Bread Book .
"Sifted"?
It produced two enormous and very edible loaves of bread.A very important tip though - read the instructions!
The recipe for the standard Tassajara yeasted bread starts on page 34 and the instructions start on page 14.
They really help flesh out the instructions for the bread and add to the quality of the loaves you'll end up with - they show you how to knead and shape the bread, how long and when to let it rise (this bread has 4 rises in total!).
I've never made bread that has risen so well and easily.I'll definitely be trying other breads and baking (there's much more than bread in there) but I have definitely found my staple white go-to bread recipe.
I knew I wanted to try this book after seeing How to Cook Your Life, a documentary on the zen monastery where the author teaches, about a year ago.
When I picked up a copy of the book and I read Brown's intro and the reviews of his recipes by famous chefs, I realized what a beloved work this was.
Then I went to cross-reference my own pizza dough recipe (which I have been using for years) with Brown's recipe for foccasia bread- exact same recipe!
Coincidence?The techniques Brown describes helped me improve my process of bread making, and his approach fosters a deep appreciation of this simple task.
My mom just sent me this book and I am in love.
It is the 25 year Anniversary Edition, known as "The bilbe for bread baking."Any bread book that contains poetry has got to be good.
I guess not really - but this one is.Bread baking is love and I am finding this book that insinuates the same.
You'd need quite a bit of imagination, but it is possible I am sure.To get more to the point, it is more than a recipe book, it is about a way of life.
I was introduced to this book by a friend of mine when I wanted to learn to bake bread.
I used it side-by-side with her when learning to bake my bread, which helped us to realize that my copy had a major error in the quantities of ingredients.
That aside, it is a great book for teaching someone the basic process of making a bread from a sponge.
I also like the way in which it talks about what making bread does for us (our minds and spirit) as people.
I probably would have starved during my residency at Tassajar without the bread: rich, flavorful, warm, and almost always available from the side door of the kitchen to hungry students. The bread book allows for bringing a little of that flavor home, but be warned, this is not your bread machine era recipe book--the recipes take work and time, but the result tastes more real than most food on the market today.
This book is an essential part of my kitchen. I have not developed my baking repertoire as heavily as I have my savory mind, so I have referred to this gem many a times since receiving a copy some time ago. Being not that far from the physical location of the Tassajara temple, I feel the connection to be energetically greater than merely culinary preference. Every chef needs a bread book, this is the one I keep in my bag.
Definitely my go-to bread baking book. Complete enough to be consistently useful without overwhelming. I appreciate the feel and tone of this book in that for me, it focuses on the simple, humble pleasure of making bread. Nothing gimicky as in some other cookbooks. My only critique would be that the layout of sketches and instructions does leave something to be desired, requiring much page flipping if one is seeking to follow-step by step.
My bread bible from the 70s - still use it. I make a half recipe of the basic yeasted bread (recipe #1) and mix whole wheat and white flour. It's wonderful. Sometimes I use the author's suggestion to add other things as well - oatmeal is a particular favorite.As much as I love the bread recipe, dessert recipe #79 - Torte with Sour Cream Fruit Topping - is an all time favorite. Dense cake, surprising sour cream topping, and lovely fruit. A virtuous dessert.
There's nothing I love more than the smell of baking bread, and yet baking has always been one of the most intimidating things to approach in the kitchen. I learned about the Tassajara Bread Book after watching a documentary on Edward Espe Brown. This book took the anxiety out of bread-baking for me. After reading it, I baked my first loaf of hand-made bread - a loaf of braided Finnish bread from scratch from start to finish and enjoyed the process!
I like this book because the copy I have is my mother's, and is worn, and so I know all the various bits of wear, the torn part from the back cover, are from my mother's hands.Though I sheepishly admit to not yet having used the book to make bread. I just have never felt quite ready to tackle bread, which seems so much more complicated than other forms of baking or cooing. But soon, I think, soon...
Four stars for the recipes, instructions and tips. One star missing because the layout doesn't make the reader WANT to delve into the books and crannies of this book. I love that, unlike other bread books, the author suggests beginners dive right into working with whole grains, and different ingredients. I am an avid bread baker, and I feel like a creative one at that. That is thanks to this book.
I love used bookstores because I can pick up gems like this one, with an inscription in the front cover (very sweet, from roommate to roommate), old bookmarks marking favourite recipes, and a well-worn feel to all the pages.I don't have the 25th anniversary copy, mine was printed in 1970, and is wonderful in all its hippie glory. :)It's the first bread I've every made all by myself, the dough is on its last rising now. I love that it always recommends whole wheat flour over white flour.
Beautiful, simple, thoughtful, approachable, flexible. Time-tested recipes with as many variations as you have ingredients (or are lacking). One of the first books that told me baking bread can be both easy and good, and come through on its promise. Brown is welcoming and passionate and reminds us of the inherent joy in breaking bread with others. Required reading.
This bread book seemed really approachable to me compared to others I've read. I didn't love that everything has milk and/or eggs, but they do make for really nice bread! I felt a little surprised that there were so many sugar laden ones but I guess those just aren't the ones for me! I might try the banana bread one this weekend though!
