https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16956.Shout_at_the_Devil
I really enjoyed reading this book. This is a stand alone novel of Wilbur Smith's. He is true to his game with lots of adventure and war and love stories. Warning the ending may disterb you.Enjoy and Be Blessed.
What can one say about Wilbur Smith. Great books. This book is fantastic. The film was good too. Lee Marvin and Roger Moore if I remember correctly.🐯👍
Shout at the Devil is my second Wilbur Smith read after Eagle in the Sky and an early outing for the author.
Surprise, surprise, it’s an expertly written action-adventure yarn set in Africa, in which the sights and sounds of the fetid, boggy terrain are brought to life with sweeps of the great author’s pen.
Really, nobody writes like Smith; his detailed descriptions of Africa and its land, wildlife and peoples have a ring of authenticity to them that other authors miss, and at the same time he crafts fine, edge-of-your-seat adventures.This one is no exception.
The scenes and life in Africa before the 1st World War are explained in detail and I highly recommend this book to those who enjoy classics.Flynn O'Flynn is an Irishman living on a beautiful plantation in then British East Africa (also referred as the Colony of Kenya).
So Flynn brings on Sebastian, an uptight Englishman to pose as a German and collect taxes from villagers, also taking part in a hunting expedition where they collect much ivory.The German commandant learns of this and journey's after them.
Their very way of life is in jeopardy, and to make matters worse, the Germans have dispatched the largest battleship in that part of the world to back up the German commandant.
3.5 starsA historical fiction based on a real event at the time of the onset of the First World War. The story takes place in German East Africa, of what is now modern-day Tanzania, along the River Rufiji and its delta, and on both sides of the river, the Northern (German) and the Southern (Portuguese), the latter of which are allied with the British during the war itself.Part One (4-stars) of the book deals with events prior to the war.
Includes a lot of African adventure, Game-hunting, Ivory-trade related stuff, Naval problems with the Germans, and some graphical violence.Part Two (3-stars) of the book, deals with the siding of two men with the English and their assistance against the Germans.
As usual, Wilbur Smith writes passages that are so exciting that one cannot read fast enough to see what will happen next.
Somehow, I did not enjoy this book quite as much as "The Power of the Sword", which is the first and only other Wilbur Smith novel that I read.
Although "Shout at the Devil" is perfectly readble, it does not contain so much of the fascinating details and aspects of history that the "Power..." book contains, and its plot is weaker.However, my interest in Wilbur Smith's writing has by no means be distinguished ...
What can I say. This was pure, pot-boiling, page-turning, 100% pulse-quickening, pulp. Great story. Fantastic characters. If this novel wasn't written with Lee Marvin in mind as one of the protagonists, I'd be surprised- and on that note- the ending is different than the film. Very satisfying read. Looking forward to reading more Wilbur Smith.
Wonderful book. I have read a few other by this author and his descriptive writing just puts the scenes into your head so you can see what is going on. Love that!
Another holiday read! Well written as always yet I was shocked at the scene of the baby's death. Again I will look out for the film version...I think Lee Marvin would have made a great Flynn O'Flynn. Unusual that none of the 'heroes' survived their moment of glory.
Not a bad read if you ignore the elephant killing and the eating of dolphins with gills (excellent research there). The characters don't have a huge amount of depth but it kept me entertained. My favorite line was, "...the kidneys popped like overripe satsuma plums."
This was a departure for Wilbur Smith. I found this book to be quite funny in parts and the characters were entertaining! The ending of the book was so sad! I thoroughly enjoyed this book- I love this author!
Excellent adventure tale. Starts out quite light and rollicking--almost like a Harry Flashman story--and then turns very dark and tragic by the time the climax arrives.I was very entertained and kept turning the pages to see what would happen next.
(view spoiler)[ Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Brillant Smith has captivate me again in this book.
Though the book is certainly well-written, and with some interesting characters, I found the plot very linear.
There were also one or two segments where we were introduced to so many new characters/situations that I felt I'd stumbled into a completely different book by mistake.
That said, I found at least two of the 'heroes' genuinely unlikeable and the book meandered too much for my liking.
Towards the end, I actually found myself wanting the 'baddies' to win, largely because , with one exception, they were actually the nice guys.This book dates from 1968 and, though I appreciate Wilbur Smith is very popular and successful, I'm not convinced I'll read any more.
Having read lots of Wilbur Smith's books this one stands out as being different.
It is split into two parts.
Part 1 is set before WWI and focuses on one man, Flynn O'Flynn, who lives just outside German East Africa and his comical raids into Germany.
Early in the book he meets an Englishman and their repetoire is very funny.
Then WWI starts and the Germans advance beyond their borders for revenge.
The ending is untypical of Smith as it isn't a feel-good ending but I don't want to spoil it.Good book that I highly recommend.
A Smith reader's paradise. Vivid descriptions, colorful images seem too jump out of the book. The perennial, legendary elephant and the old hunter - both dying is there. The protagonists here are almost human. Flawed, inconsistent, moody. Sebastian survived from one stroke of good luck from the other, Rosa unhinged, impetuous. Flynn, drunk.It was written with tragedy in mind, none of the "winning streak", superhero-like abilities of the Courtneys, nor the godlike omnipotence and wisdom of Taita. All in all, it was a good read, in comparison with the newer books Wilbur generated lately.
While this book is never likely to be counted among the classics, I don't really think the author meant it to be. The violence aside, I think he intended it as an amusing piece of fluff in the adventure genre, and that is certainly is. He has presented a colourful, overblown group of characters with little complexity, playing out an unlikely sequence of events in an exotic setting, well described. And it works. That can't be an accident.There's little depth here--in fact it stops just short of farce--but if you're looking for an entertaining read, I'd recommend it.
Shout At The Devil by Wilbur Smith... Historical fiction around the beginning of 1900's when war at sea was predominant. The story line is around the German Vessel "Blucher" battering British war ships as well as getting itself battered. The first half runs through the age old ivory poaching and the wedlock of Sebastian with Rosa depicting the jungles of Africa. The second half goes deeper into the war at the seas, climaxing at the destruction of the "Blucher" before it could sail out to conquer. The character of Sebastian reverberates long after finishing the book. Wonderful read.
This is one of my favourite Wilbur Smith books. It doesn't take itself seriously at all, the characters are brilliantly created, and spring to life from the pages. Sebastian and Flynn work brilliantly together, with just the right mix of humour and action. The usual excellent setting of scene by Smith also makes you think you are there, and the odd touches of tragedy make it seem very real as well.
A bit dated now but this is still a good action thriller. Some stodgy sections with some gratuitous violence, but all in all an exciting read. He sure knows how to do thrillers. The politics of it worries me. Maybe it's because it's a product of its times but there is a bit of white man's mission about it. Anyway, the elephant kill is a gorily exciting rampage and there are some spectacular scenes. I haven't seen the movie but this was a fair enough read.
In my opinion, Wilbur Smith is one of the top 3 contemporary authors who writes about Africa.This was not that good though. Read his historical fiction River God or its sequel (sort of, set 4000 years apart) The Seventh Scroll instead. Pure enjoyment.
Smith never disappoints. This book has a lot about Africa, as usual, but this one takes place during WW I, and is not -to my knowledge[- part of a series.Swashbuckling characters, dastardly characters, lots of slicing and dicing. The ending was very sad, and I was hoping it wouldn't end that way, but, really, there was not other way for victory and the good guys to look good.
A wonderful book by a master story teller. Based on activities in German East Africa centred on the charactersof a fat but viscious German Officer and his Askari troops and a drunkan English poacher fascinating characters and. plots involving A German Battle Cruiser tax collection romance and iivory poaching.
Very good book. This is the first time I have read anything by Wilbur Smith-I will be reading alot more of his work. Kind of a mish mash book-comical and filled with drama and high adventure. Thoroughly enjoyed this one and would recommend it very highly.
This was a fun read. There was lots of action and some unusual plot twists. The ending was expected and then it wasn't. Definitely worth a try.
Started off fun but my God did it go dark in part two. Not sure I want to see the movie now. Another top book from Wilbur 'You'll never see this coming' Smith
Shout At The Devil does an excellent job shifting gears naturally from comedy to action to tragedy.
Set in the build up to and part of the First World War, this follows Oldsmith and O’Flynn, two unlikely and polar opposite friends as they make their way in the world, making and breaking rules before finding themselves in the turmoil of the pre-war and war years in east Africa.
O’Flynn is a typical over the top adventurer with Irish American roots and the big personality to go with it.
And of course, no adventure novel is complete without the love interest and complexity, provided by Rosa O’Flynn, and the bad guys for the good guys to battle against, provided first by the wilds of nature and then by the German invaders intent on world domination.
Tentar al Diablo es una de sus primeras novelas, y se nota.
Los personajes no son demasiado lúcidos y pueden resultar odiosos, no hay mucha exploración interna de los mismos excepto la mínima requerida para no estar pintados al óleo.
Hay brutalidad, mucha, y ya a las cien páginas los protagonistas habían pasado una odisea tras otra.
La trama basada en una historia real se desarrolla con pasmosa velocidad para entregar un final explosivo que no todas sus novelas tiene, pero que se agradece sea un cambio de actitud.
No es una excelente novela, pero se nota hacia donde estaba encaminado Wilbur en sus primeros pasos.
