https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/434231.Nightmare_in_Pink
Private investigator Travis McGee is steering very close to the edge here.
And for another thing, the plot is much too similar to other novels by Raymond Chandler and Ross MacDonald (view spoiler)[ the crooks are using a psychiatric ward to control the mark, and eventually the detective gets himself locked in with the loonies and the bad guys  (hide spoiler)]I have heard before that no.2 is a weaker book in the series, but now that I have managed to plow through it, I am willing to give Travis McGee another chance to shine, so next year I plan to continue with his capers.
3.5/Es la primera novela que leo de este autor y me ha gustado mucho. Es más, ahora entiendo porque se le conoce como uno de los escritores norteamericanos de novela negra más importantes del pasado siglo.
McDonald’s 21- novel Travis McGee series.
He is also a ladies’ man.In this novel, McGee leaves his haunts in Florida and journeys to New York City.
While such witty repartee may be appealing, it detracted from the plot and lacked the great action that Brass Cupcake, McDonald’s first novel, had.The book really doesn’t really start to move until the second half when McGee finds himself drugged with LSD (or some similar substance) and feels the table in the restaurant melting around him before he is involuntarily committed to a mental institution where the evil doctors threaten to lobotomize him.
If there's a lot of money and any possible way to get at it, I think people will do some strange and warped things."- John D.
MacDonald, Nightmare in PinkTravis McGee #2 = Travis McGee goes to NYC.
Well, he goes to NYC and is slipped a mickey while investigating the murder of a friend's little sister's husband.
Basically, this entire series could have been written in some warped version of Camelot.
And, since this book was published in 1964, MacDonald is basically surfing on the shards of the Kennedy's lost Camelot.
One novel on, McGee's Magic Penis (every woman seems to want it, and the ones who get it emerge transformed for the better from the experience) becomes a very tiresome plot element.
In this novel, he's basically a sloppy amateur who blunders into a solution that he's too dense or sexed-up to try to figure out without being trapped (by a blonde whore, of course) in a mental health facility.
A mental health facility that is run by unscrupulous doctors of Eastern European origin who dole out LSD, lobotomies, pleasure and pain in the course of highly illegal behavioural experiments.
MacDonald’s Florida hero, is let loose in the asphalt jungle of New York, looking for a murderer and helping a friend.MacDonald cast McGee to be a romantic hero, slaying dragons and saving the girl.
Here, set in the NYC of the mid-sixties, MacDonald can also use this as a vehicle to expound upon all the social and cultural ills of our Western Babylon.
The author’s ability to tell the story straight while also interjecting observations as asides is again spot on in this his second McGee novel.This also involves drug use and psychological experimentation, and is akin to Kesey’s One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest in criticism of certain techniques and generally of the process as a whole.Dated as it is, some readers will be turned off by MacDonald’s Heinleinesque sexism.
The story is definitely abridged & if you come across it, run away.
Abridging a book can be a good thing.
Abridging one of MacDonald's McGee books is like trying to make a full meal for 2 out of a cheeseburger.
That it could be so good even with ham-fisted editing is amazing.One of the best things about these books is, although they're a series, a person could as easily have started with this book as the first one.
Enough of McGee's history & lifestyle comes through to paint him perfectly without boring the reader of others in the series.
MacDonald can do no wrong.
NIGHTMARE IN PINK, the second volume of Travis McGee's investigations, might not be as eventful as THE DEEP BLUE GOOD-BY, but it doesn't matter.
Interlace that with any detective work really and you've got yourself a killer story every time and this is no different.NIGHTMARE IN PINK is a particularly pertinent read in this day and age because it deals with the rich and the reckless, the American financial elite and believe me, they haven't evolved all that much since 1964.
MacDonald is a terrific author and an underrated pop culture philosopher.
Travis starts out to do a friend a favor.
In fact, the boyfriend of Nina – it’s her brother that Travis is doing the favor for – was later found dead in an alley, the supposed victim of a mugging gone wrong.
As Travis digs deeper, he finds himself up against some ruthless people who are planning to divert about $20MM into their own private numbered accounts.
It gets a little weird there for a while when Travis is captured by these crooks and confined in a mental institution, but we can forgive MacDonald for that twist.
This was even better than the first one.People who think McGee devalues women are idiots.That's all. :)
Not sure this was quite as good as the first Travis McGee I read. But still very enjoyable (as long as you can ignore the slightly sexist tone of the book....reminds me of reading Ian Flemings's Bond, sign of the times I guess). I liked the New York setting, made it easy to imagine. I'll definitely be carrying on with these.
The second Travis McGee novel finds our self-described boat-bum doing a favor for an old army buddy who has been confined to a VA hospital and, sadly, is unlikely to live much longer.
Along the way, despite trying not to, Travis falls for young Nina, and she for him, although they both know it won't be a lasting thing.John D.
Travis has flaws and, generally speaking, being around him isn't always the safest place to be.
Most people agree that it is not until the third novel, A Purple Place for Dying that the general pattern and style for the rest of the books is laid down.
Very fast read. Unfortunately not nearly as entertaining as the first of the Travis McGee series, Deep Blue Good-by
It wasn't dissimilar to many of Ian Fleming's old James Bond novels, in which the situation the protagonist is trapped in is so insane that you can't help but just shrug your shoulders and go along for the ride.I didn't like it, however, for all the same reasons I disliked The Deep Blue Good-by.
The attitudes of the protagonist are really dated, and not in a good way--I enjoy reading old pulp fiction in which the narrator refers to women as "dames" and "skirts," but listening to McGee's ridiculous and long-winded musing on the "nature of the female" is like being trapped in a stalled elevator with your creepiest uncle for four hours.
The beginning seemed verging on boring, but the book progressed into predictably thrilling action and some pretty sublime writing.
I didn't quite know what to think about this MacDonald book. First off this one is not set in Florida. At first I thought I was reading a romance novel someone had secretly hidden under a MacDonald book jacket as Magee spends quite a bit of time romancing it up. Then he is drugged by an apparent LCD type drug and we get to experience his hallucinations along with him. Quite different for me from the previous Travis Mcgee novels I have read but in the end the Travis I know returned.
He is captured and told the bad guy's plans because clearly, O'Dong could never escape and do anything about them.Somewhere around page 200, Double O'Dong makes a brief transformation into Travis McGee and there's a very satisfying bit of action and cleverness.
The action combined with background on McGee gained in the first chapter and the excellent prose saved this book from the 2 stars it might have received.
The following is after McGee is bumped into on the crowded streets of New York."New York is where it is going to begin.
For that kind of friend, Travis McGee will travel almost anywhere, even New York City.
And this scum will go to any lengths to make sure their secrets don’t get out.Travis is determined to get to the bottom of things, but just as he’s closing in on the truth, he finds himself drugged and taken captive.
If he’s being locked up in a mental institution with a steady stream of drugs siphoned into his body, how can Travis keep his promise to his old friend?
More important, how can he get himself out alive?I didn’t get too worked up over this second Travis McGee instalment in MacDonald’s long running series.
Among the super-rich, our hero is, as one offended jet-setter says, “a sort of walking emetic.” Out-maneuvered and outsmarted, McGee is kidnapped into a mental hospital that makes Randle Patrick McMurphy’s look like a Club Med. The spooky mental health researchers who get hold of poor Trav have in their chamber of horrors a souped-up form of LSD that is guaranteed to produce trips bad enough to mimic schizophrenia or induce insanity.
In fact, $10,000 is a good score for a “salvage expert” and $160 a week is a handsome white-collar salary.
A favorite McGee-ism: “A good listener is far more rare than an adequate lover” (p32).
I recall the last time I read the series collectively speaking, Travis got in a lot of trouble.
But this time, this book, trouble is really, really bad.
Seemed to pay more attention to just who he was and marked a couple of personal information:1) When Travis got out of the service during the Korean War, he was supposed to go into business with his brother.
If so, you are wise enough not to trip over my manufactures image.”4)Travis McGee's description of himself: pale-eyed (gray), wire-haired girl-finder, big shambling brown boat-bum who walks beaches, slays small fishes...
Another re-read for September's Travis McGee book club over at Hitfix.
This is the second in the Travis McGee novels, and you can tell MacDonald is still finding his footing with the series, since he immediately takes Travis out of his beloved Florida and sets this one in New York.
As far as Travis McGee stories go, this isn't one of my favorites, but the passages where Travis ruminates on the ultimate downfall of society that he believe will start in New York are well done, as well as Travis' usual internal struggle with himself when it comes to good, evil and his relationships with women.
I enjoyed this more than the first book - maybe because of the interesting use and references to hallucinating and mind-altering drugs which would have been a pretty unusual element in any book written at the time.I never really understood what McGee was after as a monetary reward - but he seemed to be quite happy with his various sexual conquests and so were his lady friends.
A number of innocent people were killed by McGee's actions but he seemed to be OK with this as he rode into the sunset with his latest flame.
This is the second Travis McGee book, although it was published the same year as the first. Great stuff.
Trav was way too cool for me in this one. I still enjoyed the plotting, but the man-woman interactions were just too dated to be fun in the context of this story.

The latter will help with some of the plot points, the former...
well, it helps to understand McGee a little.
Not that he’s that tough to understand.
But there is a McGee/McDonald view about modern civilization that is a fairly negative, “paved paradise and put up a parking lot” kind of thought.
Anyway, NiP is a straight-up noir with tough guys and broads of all kinds, with a sideways turn into some lite horror; all that and some McGee philosophy makes for a decent page-turner.
V story. Very good early McGee story. Does not have the bite of action that many of his stories have but an interesting plot.
Fantastic series. I'm trying to read them slowly because I dread the day that I'm finished.
Book #2. I am inclined to agree with many who reviewed this one. Not quite as good as others. Heavy on the romance for the first two-thirds of the book. It didn't get into the point of the problems to be solved until the last few chapters and then it went rather quickly to the conclusion. Oh, well, I guess they can't all be great.
I guess Travis McGee's boyscout-with-a-golden-cock schtick isn't for me.
