https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27036528-ego-is-the-enemy
Ego is the Enemy is perhaps the most straight forward book on the subject and a truly humbling lesson on how to live a sober, stoic life.
If in his previous book , Ryan addressed many of the stoic philosophies and how those can be applied to our daily lives, in The Ego is The Enemy the reader can only be left in humble contemplation and to question his own life.While reading it I felt a certain ego resistance to deny and not read it to the end.
In this book, I learnt 3 lessons that are the crystallised wisdoms from the stoics .We often think that successful people are like Aston Kutcher in the Movie, "Jobs", they are egoist manics that want to take control of everything.
She makes Germany look good because she places her country's interest before her own.Success is defined very differently from the normal world in this book.
That is what true success looks like.It's often not enough to be passionate about something.
That is what passion looks like.
You will fail a lot of times and feel like giving up.
I really liked Ryan's previous book, 'The Obstacle Is The Way". This book was so bad I couldn't even finish reading it. Instead of insightful, pragmatic advice it feltmore like the petulant rant of a frustrated writer. The tight connections between the historical examples and each chapters point that were so well done in the first book, were lacking. It seemed to me that Mr Holiday was projecting ego or a lack of ego onto many of the characters just to make a point. Don't bother buying this book.

This book is absolutely full of amazing anecdotes loosely tied together in three sections: Aspire, Success, and Failure. If you are looking for inspiration to get you through a pit of despair, and can't stand empty platitudes, this book is for you. This will go on my shelf to re-read for sure.
Ryan has made sure the lessons he's learned writing these books won't be forgotten, and I'm doing my best to "tattoo" these words onto my brain, because those words, along with the context of the books backing them up, is benefitting my life.Perhaps this book is especially appealing to me because I'm a Mormon, and we Mormons are constantly admonished by our leaders to beware of pride (see https://www.lds.org/general-conferenc...).
Reading Ryan's book was a bit like listening to a talk at my church, albeit without so many spiritual references, instead referencing statements by stoics and other philosophers, although one thing Ryan and Ezra Taft Benson both have in common is that they both quoted C.S. Lewis.Ego is the enemy because when you think you know everything, you can't learn.
منظور از غرور اینجا باور به اهمیت بیش از حد خومونه، همون بچه ی شرور و تخسی که در وجود هر آدمی هست و تمایل داره همیشه حرف خودش باشه هرچند به ضرر و هزینه بقیه تموم بشه.
برای توضیح این موضوع کتاب به سه قسمت تقسیم شده: شروع کار، موفقیت و شکست.توی بخش اول که بیشتر به تصمیم گیری و هدف گذاری، اعتماد به نفس و موارد مشابه پرداخته، غرور رو عامل خیلی از رفتارهای نامناسب می دونه.
اینجا ما به موفقیت رسیدیم و خیلی وقت ها این موضوع باعث می شه تا یادگیری رو متوقف کنیم، یا به بقیه گوش بدیم، یا فکر کنیم چون موفق شدیم غیرقابل شکست هم شدیم.
And perhaps, it’s egotistical of me to even think anyone is going to read this.In a book that is supposed to be about humility and being humble, the author has a distinctly not humble voice.
I felt the author began substituting ego for every word relating to pride, purpose, drive, ambition, excitement, etc.
I don’t agree with the examples the author gave, felt it missed the mark even though the book is on a very important topic and could have been so much better than it was.
“While the history books are filled with tales of obsessive, visionary geniuses who remade the world in their image with sheer, almost irrational force, I’ve found that history is also made by individuals who fought their egos at every turn, who eschewed the spotlight, and who put their higher goals above their desire for recognition.” – from the PrologueMany of us insist the main impediment to a full, successful life is the outside world.
In fact, the most common enemy lies within: our ego.
The Ego is the Enemy draws on a vast array of stories and examples, from literature to philosophy to history.
I'm entirely unsure why this is getting such glowing reviews. It's fine. It's a perfectly good book. My rating reflects me going in after all the hype, expecting new insights, and finding none. Is the idea of embracing humility and beginner's mind really so refreshing?
Ego Is The Enemy starts off with a strong testament: The type of people who tend to succeed early, tend to be the same kind of people who are in danger of ego taking the predominant voice in their actions.
Arrogance is often confused with power and self-confidence, both by the person, and by people around them.
Ego will justify not doing so, reminding us of our past great accomplishments.
The ego loves passion, because it's a blindfolding tool it can use.The book touches on the issue of money: by default, we will always want more.

Ego can certainly be your enemy. It's important to remain humble while being confident in your daily activities. I heard the author discuss the book on EconTalk and I thought I would enjoy it. However, it's more of a self-help book than one where you can really learn new ways to worry less about your ego and find new avenues to grow as a person. I was looking more for the latter which is why I gave it two stars, though you might like it.
Nevertheless, there was a lot in this book that I found useful, even just as a reminder.
Not all of this book will be relevant or useful to you, and I felt at points that this was a book that Holiday felt he needed to write for himself; he has said as much in recent interviews.
If you liked his last book, The Obstacle is the Way: The Timeless Art of Turning Adversity to Advantage, you'll enjoy this.
'Obstacle' was about external things that hold you back from doing the work you need to be doing.
My biggest critique is that Holiday writes this as a book for everyman, but it would be more correct to say that the lessons are targeted to the reader who is at risk due to ego - competitive, high-achieving, perfectionist types who self-promote and aggrandize achievement.
This is not a book directed at meek, soft-spoken, or heads-down types who do no self-advocacy.
As someone who believes that people receive only what they are willing to ask for, I worry that a reader who falls into the latter group will take away the wrong lessons from this book.Overall, it's a keeper.
I'll recommend it to friends and will likely reread this book sooner or later.
"And that’s what is so insidious about talk. Anyone can talk about himself or herself. Even a child knows how to gossip and chatter. Most people are decent at hype and sales. So what is scarce and rare? Silence. The ability to deliberately keep yourself out of the conversation and subsist without its validation. Silence is the respite of the confident and the strong.”
Hugely important messages, very poor arguments. Having read https://sivers.org/book/EgoEnemy I was rather disappointed. If you have that humble mindset, the book is just a reminder. If you don't yet, barely will it convince you.Read the Sivers' summary instead.
An excellent reminder that none of us is the center of the universe. A little humility will not make us a doormat but it just might allow us a more powerful future. There's quotable inspiration on every page.
Sutton, who said "we cannot be humble except by enduring humiliation." He left out the quote from Sutton's possible descendent Willie Sutton, the moderately infamous bank robber of the 1930s, who, when asked why he robbed banks, said, "That's where the money is."By the time I finished the book, I wanted to get in there and score the winning touchdown--even though I've never played organized football in my life.So, though I agree with him that ego, as he defines it, is a bad thing and should be stamped out whenever it raises its hideous head, I still felt like I had just sat through a long Sunday School lesson.
Few interesting points: dividing life into moments of success, aspirations, and failures and how ego affects us in all three categories.Ego is often attached to expectations, how we deserve things and recognition, what we should strive for is to be detached from the outcomes, where the effort is enough and the process is what is important.
But a lot of things were very repetitive and did not seem entirely tied to ego, but anything that seemed bad seemed to be an issue with ego.
I agree ego is often the fundamental root to disappointment / guilt / jealousy, and we should be conscious of this.
This reads like a bunch of loosely related fortune cookies sequenced one after another. If you've read the title, you've read the book... can read Derek Sivers' summary, which is far more appropriate a length given the underlying substance of the book.
I kept rolling my eyes while listening to this book. The historical anecdotes are interesting but too often it felt like the author was projecting his own opinion on why people did certain things and their thought process. Most of the principles the author is trying to convey are fine but basically boil down to "Work hard and don't get too big for your britches." I think an alternate title of the book could have been "Success through Subserviency".
An endless humblebrag, this is every 'just so' story of success put in a pile and shaped into a self-portrait.Narcissism wearing a philosophical hat.
Ego is something we all know about and are aware of but this book allowed me to study and reflect on my own much deeper.
These things are all serving your ego in an unhealthy way and we build up this "sexy story" of who we are and how we show up in the world.
* The "glitz, glamour and gold" trapAnother ego trap to watch out for that I learned about is the simple monotony of successful people.
It's attractive to believe the glamorous stories and examples of overnight success or massive event that changes peoples lives in a small moment.
My takeaway: As the title says, ego is your greatest enemy to get where you want to be. Your current self gets in the way of who you want to be in the future.
Stay humble because ego is the enemy
We learn only by example, through a series of biographical vignettes, that people who are narcissistic, vainglorious, and self-absorbed come to miserable ends, while success and contentment are the rewards of those who focus on reality, know their own capabilities, and don't succumb to the allure of fame.This wouldn't be so bad—though I wonder who among those who would read a book with this title needs such lessons—but the confusion over what the ego is leads to many mistaken pieces of advice.
In a world with social media and 24/7 television, which gives us so much opportunity to please our ego, this is an important book.However, I feel that this reads more like a long magazine article than a book.
Most of the book is filled with examples and stories of people, who in Holiday's interpretation have taken their ego back in order to be successful.
One could think of thousands of examples where ego has helped someone to be successful.
Moreover, we could interpret the stories that Holiday gives us very differently.
For example, he argues that Steve Jobs only became successful, because he learned from his mistakes and took his ego back.
“While the history books are filled with tales of obsessive, visionary geniuses who remade the world in their image with sheer, almost irrational force, I’ve found that history is also made by individuals who fought their egos at every turn, who eschewed the spotlight, and who put their higher goals above their desire for recognition.” – from the PrologueIt's so easy to look at successful people and attribute their success to their bloated egos, or their inflated sense of self.
That's why this book is so necessary - so many of the lessons run counter-intuitive to the way we naturally think about hyping ourselves up to feel important in order to get things done, e.g. the old mantra, "fake it till you make it".
Holiday does a stellar job explaining what ego is and why it interferes with success & happiness in an easy to understand and actionable way. I started working on my internal dialogue, how I think of myself and others after reading this book.
