https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18940135-saint-athanasius-the-father-of-orthodoxy
It is a religious look at the time in Rome when many of the thoughts of the day were varying from a belief in the one true God. A picture of the one true God without a begotten Son within his being.
Also all the thoughts of the former ways of Rome and the pantheon of gods, who formerly years earlier were the staple of Roman life.

A biography of Athanasius of Alexandria, a theologian from the 3rd century. I can't vouch for the author's reliability or the accuracy of this particular work, but I found it an enjoyable and engaging read.
I love this book. It is easy to read and packed with soul stirring info. I believe that should be required reading for every Christian. Without his obedience who knows what lies would of seeped in.
A short but inspiring account of the life of Athanasius.
I knew something of his life before reading this, now the story has been fleshed out.
This is written in an accessible style and also provides helpful context about the Arian heresy and the origins of the Nicene Creed.
A great summary of Athanasius' character and witness is found at the end of the book: "He was a living example of the truth that a man may be large-minded and yet strong; that he may hate error, yet love the erring - stand like a rock against heresy, yet be full of compassion for heretics".
Very typical writing for the age in which it was written but a good general overview of Anthanasius' life.
Gran biografíaUn libro breve pero sustancioso. Perfecto para todo aquel que necesita un cuadro inmediato de este gran líder de la Iglesia.
Very well written, interesting and informing.
This is a short biography about Athanasius of Alexandria, a 4th century Egyptian bishop famous for his articulation and defense of the deity of Christ.
This is what gave us the Council of Nicea (at which the young Athanasius, not even a bishop, made his famous debut).
Although we are grateful for the articulation of Jesus' divinity found in the resulting creed, it is unfortunate that it was a council presided over by an emperor.
Because of that, expect some goofy story lines and miracles that sound more like historical fiction than non-fictionAnother thing that I found fascinating in this book was Athanasius' reputation for evangelism.
Saint AthanasiusClear and concise. F.A. Forbes, tells of an array of intriguing slices in the full life of St. Euthanasia. The compelling details add to arousing the reader's curiosity and continual interests. St. Athanasius fascinates those readers who are seeking the one true faith which St. Athanasius preserved. May all readers of this excellent book be blessed, now and forevermore.
Great bookThis book is a must for anyone wanting to learn about their Catholic faith. It is very informative and tells the story very well. It is the perfect book for people wanting to know about the Arian heresy or the beginnings of the Nicene creed.
Great book! The tone is that of a historical-narrative, almost as if one is reading the pages of a LOTR novel. Father Athansius was a brilliant man, and every Christian is indebted to him in defending the holiness and truth of the Trinity against the heresiarch Arius.
This account of the life of Athanasius is remarkable. It's highly readable, fast paced, and well structured. Highly recommended to anyone who wants to learn more about the history of the Nicene Creed.
A little one-dimensional, but a good timeline of St. Athanasius's life, times, and challenges.
Lovely primer on his life, but very one-sided, and would be nice to have more detail about the culture of that time for clearer context.
Great little book that provides highlights from the life of Athanasius and the events surrounding the Nicene Creed.
A wonderful recounting of the events of St. Athanasius' life.
A fun read but also more historical fiction than history. If you can keep that in mind you should enjoy it.
Interesting history but not strongly spiritually moving.
This is a book you should read. I am biased a bit since I hold Athanasius in high regard but really, you should enjoy this short work on his life.
