https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/410725.The_Long_Lavender_Look
McGee swerves and misses the woman by inches, but he loses control of the truck and it winds up underwater in a ditch.McGee and Meyer manage to escape, but there's no sign of the woman they nearly hit.
When they finally reach a gas station they’re immediately arrested for the murder of a man named Frank Baither, and Meyer gets the shit beaten out of him by one of the deputies while in police custody.And you thought you were having a bad day.Pretty typical McGee with the self-described salvage consultant getting mixed up in a mess of small town murder and secrets involving the loot from a heist.
Baither later takes a shot at McGee and Meyer after mistaking them for these two men.Yet later we find out that it was actually Lilo who tortured and killed Frank to find out where the money was, and that she had lured the two other men to their deaths.
And it gets cold in there."- John D.
MacDonald, The Long Lavender LookIt is always nice to return to a solid McGee novel.
None are Shakespeare and the worst are like bad James Bond novels, but when MacDonald is on his game, he writes great narrative with interesting sidebars on economics, relationships, and people.
This is the 12th of his Travis McGee novels and probably the 16th McGee I've read (I've got about 5 left).
I've also read other MacDonald novels that I've liked about equally well.
It is a bit too cyncial, even for John D.
thought about that though, as he was the only one of the two who genuinely did have the last name MacDonald.) But – and okay, I’m only going by one example of John D’s work here – I think there are as many differences as similarities.
Both central protagonists are tough guys, sure, but Travis McGee strikes me as lot wilier than Archer, and is definitely without the vein of sadness which runs six inches wide through Archer’s soul.
It is blind and stupid luck that sees Travis McGee and his friend Meyer swerving late at night on a deserted Florida road to avoid a nearly naked woman who runs into their path.
In THE LONG LAVENDER LOOK there's no "mission" at all: a late-night accident pulls McGee and his pal Meyer unwillingly into the dark underbelly of a central FL town: one of MacDonald's favorite topics--he's clearly a frustrated sociologist.
It will probably look much like that when they do burn."Maybe it's just me, but that's pretty good poetry for a throw-away crime story.Elsewhere in the novel JDM offers a wonderful digression on memory and how the mind works.
Remember how slow and strange and awkward it felt to walk again, after all the long Saturday on skates, after going way to the other end of town.
I believe I read all of the Travis McGee books, of which this is one.
Like Bond, McGee is a garbage-collector of the vile detritus left behind by the world's evil geniuses (and quite a few just plain idiotic criminals reminiscent of Elmore Leonard and Quentin Tarantino stories).
Revenge then adds to Trav's justification for giving back as bad as his girlie got, or worse.As an education in the underside of Florida real-estate schemes and political corruption, MacDonald's books are delightful and unexpected discoveries.
Less social commentary in this one but also less slightly offensive remarks about women.

***.When you get to read (or reread) the earlier Travis McGee novels, you quickly recognize that MacDonald hit his best stride early on.
In this episode, McGee and his friend Meyer are speeding through Cypress County from a combined wedding and fishing trip.
McGee does his best to avoid hitting her, but a rear tire blows and our two heroes end up in a canal.
It seems that several years ago a gang of men ripped off the payroll and take from a race track and got away with over $900,000.
They were still at large, but McGee and Meyer were convenient.
I'm considering myself lucky to be among the many readers savoring the "Travis McGee" adventures, and can't wait to read another exploit of his.......
a salvage consultant philosopher McGee was just full of toughness, skill, and sensible character that'll keep you on the edge.McGee was heading home with his best friend an Economist Meyer after attending a friend's wedding in Cypress County with "Miss Agness" ( an ancient rolls-royce car converted into a pick up)suddenly a young woman run into Miss Agnes on a highway.
McGee, as a salvage operator he has to give up some of his fortune this time to save his life, and Meyer's.
teffer's live oak lode and dining room, where all eat * johnny's main street service, where miss agnes is brought* a red plastic national franchise selling the best sandwiches anytime anywhere* the cypress call and journal (newspaper) offices, a cement block building on princeton street, cypress city* frank baither's residence on state road 72* cora arnstead's residence, 3880 cattleman's road, where lew, her son, also stays* the adventurer, a bar* sinkhole west on county line road* woodgate shopping center* betsy kapp's place on seminole street* emergecny room at city memorial hospital, cypress city, florida* an all-night drive-in* kramer home building supply headquarters, mile and a half out of town on airport road* a grove behind bernie's* cypress county gov't offices...land maps, property, so forth so on, clerk's office* a shack on property owned now by lew arnsteadcharacters major* travis mcgee, our hero, 1st-person narrator* meyer, his friend, neighbor, economist* a girl who runs in front of travis's car, "lilo", lillian hatch, she was the first baby of wanda and johnny hatch, second was ronnie, and then there was one that died* cypress county sheriff norman "norm" l.
This would be my 12th McGee quest (that "amiable and incurable tilter of conformity, boat-bum Quixote, hopeless sucker for starving kittens, women in distress and large, loose sums of money") and even if the formula stays the same my enjoyment of the series just keeps getting better.
Although I am starting to wonder if Trav is going start suffering future sexual hang-ups from the fact that almost every lady he beds seems to wind up dead...I think the later novels might land a little flat for readers not familiar with McGee but for those who already love him and his dry humor this one was filled with one line gems.
This Travis McGee reveals that JDM appreciates cats, and understands women and cops as well as he understands varieties of male personalities.page 107 "She wrapped us in her compensatory aromas of fate, tragic romance, inevitable loneliness of human beings.
It happened, of course, because it was written in the starts that it had to happen."...and I fatuously gratified by the implied compliment accepted.page 159 "It is a useful and profitable sideline practiced by venal, underpaid, crooked police officers in every urban area of the nation and the world where police administration leaves enough room for improvisation.
MacDonald is great - one in a long line of evolving mystery writers from Rex Stout forward to Randy Wayne White and more. Travis McGee, that "rugged, sexy Florida boat bum" is an intelligent, engaging detective, solving his crimes with a determination to do right. Light read that's lots of fun, and the good news is that there are a couple of dozen McGee books out there :-)
It's a way of life and it's a damn bit better than punching a nine-to-five clock for forty odd years till social security kicks in.Although this is a series about a guy who lives on a houseboat, this particular novel doesn't take place on the water or, for that matter, anywhere near the water.
There's no client in this one and not much to salvage for McGee, but it is a southern country pulp mystery in a small county ruled by a sheriff who has an iron hand.
The ensuing mystery, especially as the corpses begin to pile up, is dark, violent and a bit twisted.McGee sets out not just to clear himself & Meyer but to sniff out prospective swag that someone may have hidden back in the boonies after the armed robbery of a racetrack office years before.
First, Travis McGee begins to doubt the abiding sharpness of his skills (to the reader’s knowledge, he’s been a “last resort salvage specialist” for a decade or so by this time).
It opens with Travis and Meyer getting stranded on the Tamiami Trail (US-41), one of the two main highways that go through the Everglades.
It reminded me a lot of the night after my first wedding.
Anyway...I was sad to see Meyer drop out of the storyline - I have a soft spot for the Travis-Meyer buddy tales.
The story unwound so quickly that there were some nights I read myself to sleep, staying awake MUCH later than I should have.
SPOILERS AHEAD!!I was *so* disappointed when Travis got involved with Betsy.
So I was relieved when she got killed, even though it seemed extraneous to the storyline.
Automatic 5 stars!!!That's what I said when I started reading it.
Sure enough, now that I'm done with it: genuine 5-star John D.
McGee's declaration of what is in a woman's "total sexuality":1.
total health4.
perfection of detail ("Glossy pelt, glistening eyes...with pulse and respiration infinitely slow with the body at rest, preparing it for explosive demands.
[and:] No dentist would have defied reality by making teeth that perfect.")5.
total and dangerous unpredictabilityI can't believe I almost forgot Meyer, renown economist, improbable best friend."You didn't see her?" I asked him.
Book 13 in the Travis McGee series.McGee and Meyer take a short cut through Cypress County on the way home from a stay over with a friend, and find themselves in jail for the murder of a local man.
When they're eventually released, Meyer is flown home to have injuries he sustained in Police custody taken care of, but McGee is asked to stay within the jurisdiction and he makes good use of his free time, to look into the murky goings on in the unfriendly city.
I have enjoyed the John D.
MacDonald mysteries that I have read to this point.
This one, however, had a different setting and some very perverse people.
I particularly enjoyed his bisecting his characters emotions and defining their motives, strengths and weaknesses.
It had twists and turns that seemed never to end.
I enjoyed the book which was an easy read, but wished he had ended it earlier when he was down to about ten suspects.
Travis McGee is a man's man, of the Jack Reacher type, and his characters all seemed to have just escaped from a Jack Nicholson movie.
Ah, Trav. I like you more and more the more and more depressed and disillusioned you become. Also, women who want to go have a drink with you should reconsider, because in sixty pages they're going to wind up trussed up somewhere like a Christmas goose only naked and extremely dead. WOMEN, DO NOT DATE TRAVIS MCGEE, anyway not casually. (If you're invited to the Busted Flush for a three-month in Grand Cayman you're going to be fine, but apparently you gain a lot of weight and may get skin cancer later.)
When Lee Child writes the introduction, and Stephen King praises the author as "the great entertainer of our age and a mesmerizing storytellers," it's a good chance the book will pull in the stars. Travis McGee gets caught up in a caper in an insular county in Florida, and must solve his way out of several murders. I came across this book in a new published series from the now long gone master.
Great story - definitely one of the best in the series. Fearless MacDonald is even brave enough to feature a talking cat. (Ok-he can only say his name, Raoul.) Raoul isn't the only fascinating character in this beauty of a tale.
Reread twice. Enjoyed both times very much. Travis gets in trouble in hick town and has to work very hard to get out of jail. Two crooked cops and a blackmailed chief all involved in a cop run escort service with pre=arrestees black-mailed into prostitution.
There are always going to be the issues of the characters being dated by contemporary readers, but I feel that MacDonald and the character of Travis McGee have gotten better with each book. One of the better plots in the series so far.
More complex plotting than some of his other works….and perhaps darker...but fantastic. Such a smart, lyrical writer.
My fav Travis McGee so far. Has it all - intresting charcters, a good mystery, great action, sexy intrigue and timeless musings on modern life.
✭✭✭✭
Few can make a convoluted plot work like John D. This is a good one.
For me, the would be crime fiction, and John Sandford has been my favorite authors for the last few years.
However, in the 1960 and '70s, John MacDonald was among the kings of the crime fiction writers.
In those good ol' days a crime fiction novel did not have to be 420-464 pages long and chapters could be -- wait for it -- more two four pages long.
I've read three McGee books in the past two or three years and I think I read some long ago, but I think I'll continue to pick one up now and again when I need a break from the 21st century.
