https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18039963-a-house-in-the-sky
I think people need to know that if you are going to go to countries that your government highly recommends that you don't, then if something happens to you it is not their job to help you.
Other criticisms have pointed out that it seems like she purposely did this to get the fame of a once in a lifetime story, but ended up getting more than she bargained for, I doubt this is the case since it would be a great way to get killed!
But because she was either grossly naive and or ignorant, for me did not make this book worth the time I spent reading it.
It's impossible to read this book without it weighing heavily in your thoughts.....Amanda Lindhout, held hostage for 460 days, in Somalia, made many stupid choices: she was naïve and foolishly optimist....yet, those same qualities about her- may have been what kept her alive!!!Amanda is a fan of Eckhart Tolle.
No matter what dumb mistakes she made - nobody should go through what she did!!!!Yet - Ms. Amanda Lindhout ...( her friend Nigel called her 'Trout')....bless her heart & soul if she didn't put to practice the skills of Eckart Tolle -when she needed them most: .....
Eckhart Tolle says: "Intense presence is needed when certain situations trigger a reaction with a strong emotional charge".
Impossible to put down, and easily one of the bravest, most harrowing, and most inspiring memoirs you'll ever read.
What Amanda went through during her 15 months of captivity in Somalia is about as close to hell on earth as anyone could get, and her story is at once many things: a remembrance of transcended origins and of lust for travel; a page-turning, ripped-from-the-headlines chronicle of a young woman's kidnapping; a portrait of the tragedy of religious fundamentalism and failed statehood and the astonishing inhumanity that they can ignite in men (and I do mean in men--not women).
This was another brutal book experience of 2017! I'm exhausted! I'm late to the party so there isn't much to add that hasn't been said. This is being made into a movie starring Rooney Mara so there is that. I think she's a good pic to play Amanda Lindhout. Thank you to Mark for recommending this book and for getting me an audio copy! ❤️
You don’t know what’s possible until you actually see it.” Amanda Lindhout, a freelance journalist, was kidnapped while traveling alongside Nigel Brennan, a freelance photojournalist, in Somalia.
At the time Amanda assumes they are just being robbed, and held for a few days, but once the kidnappers force them to call their families and demand a ransom (3 million dollars for both of them) she realizes that this isn’t going to be over with quickly.
Nigel is kept in a separate room with windows, books, and allowed time to go outside because he is a man.
Yes it's the true story of a Canadian woman who, while working as a photojournalist (or at least she thinks she is), gets captured and held for ransom along with a male friend in Somalia for over a year.
It's a story of courage, inventiveness, and faith.
It's sort of like the stories of people hiking the Grand Canyon who are told by experts to stay on the clearly marked trails.
But they think they know better, go off the trail, fall into the canyon, and then cry for help, not realizing that they're putting their rescuers in danger too.
I was engrossed in the book once I started because I wanted to know what happened to her and read it through to the end just to finish it and see how it ended.
But, honestly, I spent more time wondering what on earth she thought she was doing in Somalia in the first place having no credentials and no possibility really of doing anyone any good.
She ended up suffering a harrowing ordeal and placing a friend in harms way as well, not to mention the pain she put her family through.
I don't know, I was really bothered by her.
It’ll linger in your mind and fill your thoughts throughout the day when you've set it aside and lovingly so very, very long after the last page.
Receiving the absolute highest possible praise of five and four stars from the Mindful Readers, this book is incredible.
Amanda’s rich, flowing, and relentless, beautiful writing takes you intensely side by side with her during her young life of travels, journalism, and long captivity in Somalia.
Read this unforgettable life story and ultimate quest to hand hope -- rajo -- to today's children and women of Somalia, and quite wonderfully, to you as a reader.
In August, five years ago, Canadian Amanda Lindhout was kidnapped with Australian Nigel Brennan in Somalia, as they traveled, writing and taking photos of their experiences.In August, five years ago, I had just had Alex and was spending most of my nights awake, in a bleary, exhausted post partum haze and began following Amanda’s story.
Amanda honours this woman with her foundation, hoping that kindness and education ( and aid and development ) will somehow shift the terrible situation that produced the terror Amanda lived.
I hope that I have not held back too much on the story that Amanda and Sara have shared.
I have also read a great many glowing reviews that point out among other things; how well the book was written, how courageous in the face of extreme adversity Amanda was, how honest she is about her own culpability in being in that position in the first place, how remorseful she is about the ordeal her parents suffered in their efforts to free her and how humbled and self less she has become on the other side of this nightmare as evidenced by her fortitude in helping others.All of which I believe to be true, still there is a disquiet within me, that popular or not I feel I must share.
I imagined one room opening brightly onto another room opening onto another room until I'd built a house..."So it was she lived in the sky of her mind.
After their failed escape, I almost lost hope for her survival even though I knew she lived to tell the tale.
She continues to face her banana peels, those things that "unwittingly trip an internal wire" in her mind opening the "floodgates of fear." This book helped me to understand a world of depravity that I never even imagined.I hope that it helped Amanda to expunge a few of her demons.
I read this prior to joining GR and hence a late review but as I pulled this out for my husband to read, I thought I must write something as this has stayed with me.
This is one of the most memorable, shocking, fascinating memoirs I have ever read.
Amanda Lindhout is an astonishing woman and the ordeal she went through - as disturbing as it was - transformed her into becoming one of the most courageous of women whom exist today.
From the time she had written this, she has done amazing things in Somali, raising the awareness of the oppression of women.
This is an absolute 5 ★ must read.
Did I perhaps read a snippet in The New York Timesin the fall of 2008, shake my head in momentary worry and sadness, and move on to Presidential election campaign squabbles, forgetting all about the plight of Amanda Lindhout?
A young woman, blithely tripping about the globe, in search of direction, meaning, identity and adventure, becomes a prisoner by means of her own ignorance, arrogance, and good intentions.
Amanda and Nigel spend the next 460 days in brutal, soul-crushing captivity.
After Captivity is a shattering coming-of-age story of a woman in physical, emotional and spiritual crisis.
UPDATE, Sept.
13, 2013: My full review runs in Canada's National Post newspaper on Sept.
14, but you can read it online now at http://j.mp/skahitsrnp.
One note on the Goodreads rating: It should be 4.5 stars, but I don't see a way to do that.Initial impressions posted: July 16, 2013:I read this in about eight hours.
Ghost written account of a stupid and reckless young Alberta women who ignored all advice to enter the lawless, warlord-divided and 20yr civil-war ravaged country of Somalia and who was kidnapped and held for ransom for 460 days with equally dumb Australian ex-boyfriend/wannabe photojournalist.I must congratulate New York Times writer Sara Corbett for corralling the flotsam and jetsam thoughts of the airheaded Lindhout.
[The Price of Life]Aside from Lindhout's "Stockholm Syndrome" tendency towards the end of her harrowing ordeal (I am not heartless, just holding her to account/laying blame where it is due).
I wish I could give it more stars. In some ways I'm just speechless..... At times I literally had to flip the book over and look at Amanda's picture and remind myself that she truly did survive this! How deep she had to dig within herself to keep herself sane.This is a must read. She is a hero and has turned her horrific experience into one of giving to others .
Through A House in the Sky you vicariously experience being a hostage.Please start by carefully reading the GR book description.
What the author lived through is not sensationalized and I admire Amanda Lindhout for that.
The book is co-authored by Sara Corbett.
It is not an easy book to read.
By starting with Amanda's troubled family circumstances the reader grasps where she is coming from and why she makes the choices she makes.
I am not willing to point a finger at Islam.
Some people did help Amanda.
It needs to be read.I really enjoyed the audiobook narration by Amanda, the one who lived through these events.
I have to admit that I found myself rolling my eyes 2 or 3 times during the first part of this book.
I was seriously irritated by Lindhout’s accounts of her love life.
I can’t imagine what it took to relive those terrifying moments while writing this book.
Yes, she eventually realizes her vanity, and expresses deep remorse, and that’s when I understand why I needed to see her in “her old shoes.” In experiencing life lessons we all learn and grow.
The road to her life lessons was horrendous.
Several times I found my heart pounding--wanting to put the book down because some of the things this woman endured were so horrifying it felt like a punch to the gut.
For me, I know it is a great book if I dream about it at night after having read it for several minutes or hours that day.
as a woman it was very, very difficult to read in many places.
This is truly one of the most amazing, astounding books I have ever read written in part by one of the most remarkable and courageous women I have ever heard or known of.
While I was finishing up another book, I left A House in the Sky on the end table and watched it with weariness, as if it was a wild animal that would bite me if I got too close.
After about 10 days of watching the book rest next to the couch, with the warning of it's profound brutality, I finally dug in.
Is this why men act this way, using the excuse of god to dehumanize and denigrate women ...
Despite my tingling nerve endings, I could not stop reading this book.
I can't knock in down just because what happened to her was so horrible!!!!It is the true story of Amanda Lindhout and how she was captured and held prisoner in Somalia.
It was an odd mix in the beginning because in some ways I was really wanting a bad-ass hostage book (not sure why???).
If you really want to know what the fundamentalists do in a female hostage situation - then read this.
If you want to read a story of survival, read this.
Get the audio if you want Amanda to be narrating that story - it was well done!!!
A House in the Sky is an amazing memoir about a Canadian woman named Amanda Lindhout. This well written book is co-authored by Sara Corbett. It was on the New York Times bestseller list and won the 2014 CBC Bookie Award for Best Canadian Nonfiction.Amanda writes about the horrible experiences in a factual manner that made it sound very realistic. I admire her tremendously for how she remained positive, survived and how she has dedicated her life to help others. I listened to the audiobook narrated by Amanda. Excellent book and I highly recommend it. 5 stars
Though I respect Amanda Lindhout for raising herself out of a sad and difficult childhood, I did spend a lot of time saying to myself, (sometimes out loud) "Wow, what a stupid thing to do!" as she compulsively travels alone to dangerous flashpoint destinations.
For a few years, she's extremely lucky--people are nice, no one rapes her--until she travels to Somalia, where no one is in charge; the land of pirates, professional kidnappers, and Islamic fundamentalists--and there, her luck runs out.What did I learn from this book?
In contrast, her companion, a hapless wannabe photographer ex-boyfriend, is given books to read, a room with windows, and the teenage kidnappers treat him like a buddy.Was Lindhout helplessly naive?
Home should be a safe place for everyone.I didn't want to read this memoir as I feared it would be gory, graphic and painful to read, but I'm a book club trooper.
It is not nearly as difficult to read as I had feared and the author does a great job of "fading to black" - she lets you know what happened but also spares you many of the details.The author's tenacity and ability to hold on to hope, love and even forgiveness in light of what she went through is incredibly inspiring.
I can't shake this book.
She said it took her and her journalist co-author three and a half years to write it, and that shows.
Yet what I can't shake is knowing that - despite all her efforts to use her experience as a force for good - she still has to live with what happened to her every day.
I hope she makes millions from this book and from a movie deal so she can fund her foundation for the next hundred years and pay back her family members who lost everything to pay her ransom.
I doubt that will happen, but it would be nice.
aaaaaaand I was right. ------------------------------ “It's only your body that's suffering, and you are not your body. The rest of you is fine.” this book will destroy me.
deeply personal no holds barred Inspirational Couldn't put this down Never a moment of poor me - she speaks frankly about her background and her ordeal, without ever putting blame on anyone Haunting - this book is still with me eventhough I finished it early June Fascinating and informative Inspirational  Hope and Forgiveness are the main messages she want to get through to the world Takes what happened to her, and instead of letting it take hold and bring her down, uses it to try to bring around change and to help this from happening to others SPOILER - The chapter dealing with her attempted escape sickens me.
Still, I wrestle with the little girl who rejected common wisdom costing tremendous loss to herself and many others emotionally, physical and financially.
Amanda’s life choices became more understandable after reading the first chapter of The House in the Sky. As a reader, we are introduced early to the dysfunctions of Amanda’s formative years.
Amanda’s arrival in Somalia with no insurance, formal identification as a freelance photojournalist, and lack of experience defied common sense.
How Amanda is writing her current life chapter shows how tragedy can be redeemed to something good.
I can only hope that the book serves other young travellers well with wisdom.
This book was only average for me.
She was young.
And I'm not so old that I have forgotten the feeling of being immortal, that only the young have.
Like reading a text book.
The book had no mystery to it.
It felt a little icky to read to just find out how much torture she endured.
And this is purely my opinion, but I didn't like the way she portrayed Nigel.
(I don't even know Nigel, maybe he's an ass).
(This was maybe the writing) Yet plenty of her observing Nigel's weakness.
A quick read.
I appreciated how the memoir was able to show us how she changed as a person.
I'm always amazed when someone is able to do that, start writing a book from the perspective of the "old" you, and very gradually change this to the new you.
Her relationship with her captors and Nigel was one of the most arresting elements of the story, and will keep me thinking long after the book has been packed away.
Lastly I think I learned more about the religion of Islam than in any other book I've read before.One of the best-written memoirs I've read this year.The Story: This memoir recounts Lindhout's experience in southern Somalia as a hostage of teenage militants from the Hizbul Islam fundamentalist group.
