https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1516925.The_Impersonal_Life
If you're ready - you get it! And you keep it in your purse - on your nightstand. Everywhere. I'm reading again now. Blown away by this. Never leaves my mind. High level spiritual writing.
Don't be put off by the fact that he uses words like christ consciousness and other religious jargon, this book is about understanding the self and approaches the idea of non-divergent thought as the essence of life.
Other people might call it living in the present but this book was written way before all those new agey terms were used for this ancient wisdom.
Trust that thought and being trapped in the mind is not the best way to live day to day, but rather let life flow through in the absesnce of compulsive thought trust that when something comes up you will be able to make the correct decision.
Benner goes way beyond imagination and deep into the impersonal self everyone has in them.
The way he describes the impersonal self of each one goes straight to a point of wisdom and enlightenment.
To read this book one must definitely have had to go through a series of self experience moments.
To analyze what he is saying and really feel it as if it was you, yourself and no one else in this world is the great teaching of this book.
Reading and focusing on his meaning and what he was trying to transcend has been a peak experience I would never forget.Finding yourself in yourself deep inside.
I keep having to buy new copies because I give this to everyone who might find it interesting - the root from which many 'spiritual' books have sprung, brilliant.
The language is a little confusing and the book is fairly repetitive (this is done on purpose) but what is contained in the pages is neither contradictory nor complex.
It explains what is essential from the Bible, though it is a book of universal spirituality, not religion.
You will learn about the true nature of the world and understand what your (and everyone else's) purpose is.
The final chapters are essential for application.
If you are ready, you will understand.
If not, continue to live your life, but keep the book around.
You'll come back to it eventually when the time is right.
Simply a beautiful book about the Creator, and our role in life.
This is one of those books that you have to be ready to receive the message. If it is hard to understand then set it aside and read at another time. Amazing!
The divine manifested in you.It has been said that Elvis Presley had this book close by for every day meditation, that he gave away 1000 copies to family and friends.
You will know deep within if you have followed your true self.The Gospel of Thomas: (3) Jesus said, "If those who lead you say to you, 'See, the kingdom is in the sky,' then the birds of the sky will precede you.
But if you will not know yourselves, you dwell in poverty and it is you who are that poverty."The Impersonal Life is also available on Public Domain.
My experience with this book is just Transcendent !!! :)All through the pages, I felt a Majestic Powerful Omniscient being is talking directly to me.It was suggested by a well-educated, cultured & inspiring person called JP Sears (Y)It's worthy the time I spent reading it.
The most beautiful book I have ever read!
Having read "Three Magic Words" of US Andersen, I could have avoided reading this book, it is almost the same content.
Thy Will Be Done!This book remove all doubts of oneself and restore the true self. Be Still and know that I am God.
The late author, a Lutheran clergyperson, presents a non-traditional approach to Christian teaching.
Our destiny is to awaken from personality to this Impersonal and surrender to It. In doing so, we love others with Impersonal Love and, thereby, help in awakening them to who they are, and that who is who we are, who 'God' is.
you, me.I find this book encouraging, helpful to anyone interested in exploring a way of looking at Christian teaching that complements Eastern wisdom paths.
Finally, this is the kind of book that would be a resource some persons would return to frequently, for inspiration and reorientation to the truths presented here.
This was an amazing book recommended by Dr. Wayne Dyer prior to his passing. According to Dr. Dyer, Elvis carried a copy of this book around prior to the author being revealed. It wasn't until Joseph Benner passed that his wife told of his authorship to this book. The words of the book were channeled from source to him.
Incredibly inspiringThere is a voice inside us that speaks in whispers, some hear it and some don't. Our thoughts are a voice we each recognize. The voice in his book will come alive and clearly have a conversation with you. In it you may just discover who you are. And find there is much more to our thinking than we may have believed.
Ultimately irritatingBennet writes in the first person as if taking dictation from God. At first glance, the book is a rehash of Buddhist philosophy but quickly reveals its true colours as an exposition of Christianity's intelligent creation in which humans (specifically men as women are never mentioned) are nothing but God's manipulated robots. It's an irritating read. Try Eckhart Tolle instead.
This book is not an easy read at first and it is not for everyone - you definitely have to be in a place that's ready to receive it's message. It may come off as religious at first as it it Christ mind based, but it is universal and so far from religious teachings. For "A Course in Miracles" followers, you will enjoy this little book - it is the perfect compliment to ACIM's core teachings. I will definitely re-read this book again and again...
Poor editing on the Kindle version was part of the problem in not giving this book more stars. It is a bit awkwardly phrased as well. The topic however, is very much like what "A Course in Miracles" says and Buddhism--so in that regard I liked it.
The Impersonal LifeThis is a book to read more than once. The content is presented in a way that helps you understand difficult concepts.
Even though I found the book difficult in the beginning..it will always be at arms reach.
On Going Meditation ....
Not what I expectedDisappointed. This is more of a bible lecture than self help. Writing is boring and confusing. Not recommend this book.
This is something special... Unexplainable and elusive, yet clear.
YES.
The simple and clear Truth.
This was Elvis Presley's favorite book. He was reading it when he died in his bathroom
For me, this was a tough read. Not because of the content but the Archaic language. That aside, It is an inspiration to anyone who is searching for an understanding of life here on earth and the hereafter, if there is such a place. I'm going to read this again because, I think, I have much to learn from this little book.
Maybe the more I read it the more I will understand it. I like the part that we are all part of God's will, good and bad.Different, but still referring to Jesus as the true expression of God's will and knowledge for us to live by.
Powerful, uplifting, connection to the Divine within and beautifully read by Barry J. Peterson on Audible. I listened on and off for two solid months : http://lunawings.blogspot.com/2018/03...
This book was amazing, it had some really good insights in it. But the tone at times just felt off and demanding to me, there was lots of conditioned words for a being that's pure love. But it was a really good book other than that and reminded me of Conversations with God.
