https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47709.The_World_of_The_Dark_Crystal
I didn't read the entire book. It was very detailed, and I would have needed a lot of time and concentration. But I did enjoy what I did read. It was really interesting, and though I didn't understand some of it, I feel like I know the world of the dark crystal a lot better than I did before.My favorite part were the illustrations. They were so beautiful, and detailed. The best one was on pages 88-89
now that I finally have The World of The "Dark Crystal" here with me on my bedroom floor, the wait has been worth it.the art book starts with a little introduction that is similar to the "making of" documentaries about The Dark Crystal.
the amount of detail from the urRu's facial wrinkles representing meditative thought to the anatomical structure of the crustacean-like fauna of The Dark Crystal being a simple extension of triadic symmetry explained at the beginning of the book, is impressive!definitely a must for all fans of Jim Henson and The Dark Crystal alike!
This book is gorgeous and well-made, I love to flip through it every now and then.
This is a 1981 book that contains illustrations by Brian Froud.
It contains a map showing the area around the Crystal Castle.
In a chapter entitled The World of the Crystal and Aughra, there is a page that shows various symbols used in the movie and what they mean, including the triangular symbol that is so prominent.The next chapter is The Darkened World and it has loads of illustrations of various creatures from Thra, partcularly those from the swamp area.
The last chapter is entitled Of The Prophecy and the Quest.This is an over-sized book which is great in that it gives room for larger than normal and more detailed illustrations.
This book is delivered as a history of the World in which the film takes place.
She monitors the cyclical suns, a spectator of the conjunctions that bring the wise urSkeks, and their division a thousand years later into the cruel Skeksis and the mystical urRu. Aughra alone knows the long history of the crystal and throughout the pages, describes life throughout the ages.
The art is gorgeous and the insights into the World of the Dark Crystal shed a new light on the film and its philosophy.
I really loved the illustrations and some of the lore that was included in this book, but there were many aspects of that writing that were vague and hard to follow: such as clearer and more specifically outlined examples of what astrological signs and alchemical symbols meant and how they could used in the world of Thra.
Even so, Froud's illustrations and even the premise of the writing itself being an "ongoing study of Thra archaeology" did make up for it.
As I said, this was a really interesting book.
I can see how this book could be a real treasure to someone who adores "The Dark Crystal." Rather than simply being a "reference" book about Jim Henson's world, it's written as though it is documentation from people who are researching Thra's history, astronomy, and culture.
In truth, I think the text might be somewhat boring if you weren't either a die-hard fan or a researcher (I fall into the latter category), but I don't think this book is meant for people who aren't die-hard fans.
So far, the "Creation Myths" are my favorite from the Dark Crystal canon, but this serves as a highly original reference.
What an odd, and magical little book.
I thought this would be behind the scenes documents, drawings and details, but never could I have imagined the depth and work of the world that was created for the Dark Crystal film.
The art is beautiful, the story is enormous, and an entire world is conjured from keen imaginations and modern science alike.
While I don't usually get into backstory like this, I admit I have great respect for this one, being a lover of the film.
I would recommend this to those who collect Brian Froud's works, or thoroughly enjoy the magic of Jim Henson.
I love this book and I was so happy that they published a new version of this fantastic book! The other version was much to expensive for me (and I guess for most of us). At the Elf Fantasy Fair 2003 Brian & his wife Wendy signed my copy. It was the second book from this new version he signed. The first one my sister have. Even he was very glad with the new version. For people who love the movie: this is a absolute must have!
Even if you've been living in a lightless subterranean hovel and never saw the Dark Crystal this is a book worth owning. Brian Froud's art and the background story add enchanting depth to a story already steeped in visual complexity and a deep sense of mythic importance. This book makes one appreciate the movie even more for the thought that went into it, but also stands alone as its own piece of art.
I am lucky to have two editions of this book. One of the original first issue paperback editions (thanks to my wonderful husband) and a hardcover re-issue. The book is full of amazing detail and gorgeous vellum overlays. Definitely a must for fans of the Dark Crystal, Labyrinth, and the darker side of Jim Henson's vision.^_^
Notes In Brief: A must-read for fans of The Dark Crystal and for us strange sorts who adore a good narrative history. This book reads like an archaeology journal, lending a mystical depth to Thraa that is hard to come by in these days of grimdark realism that rears its head everywhere, even in our fairy tales.
I finally sat down and actually read all of the content and didn't just look at the pictures.Pretty fun. I think that Froud goes a bit deep into some of the scientific terminology, making me read and reread paragraphs and sometimes still not getting what he was talking about. However, the sections written in the voice of Aughra were great. And of course the art is top notch.
As a teenager I watched this movie every time I could on HBO!!! That was when they played the same 8 movies all month, so it was quite a lot of viewings. His work is like visual candy. I never get enough. The story, text, whatever seems almost inconsequential. It's what I SEE that draws me to his work!
I adore this book- the one i read is my Mum's copy from when she was in uni! The detail that went into this film is incredible, and Brian Froud's work captured within is nothing short of genius, with detail and inside knowledge akin to Tolkien. 10/10 would recommend for anyone interested in the movie, Brian's work or any lover of fantasy or beautiful art.
Beautiful drawings by the amazing Froud, but I do wish he'd had a few more of the ethereally beautiful ones on the cover scattered inside: lots of Skeksis... though I have to admit, they are seriously cool-looking.
A collection of paintings, sketches, and models by or inspired by Brian Froud. Good stuff. I've enjoyed almost everything he's touched, from movies like this to the Pressed Fairy series.
If you loved this movie, as I did, and you can still find a copy of this book - I believe it's out of print - then do yourself a favor and buy it! Brian Froud's artwork is awesome and this book brings back all the magic of the movie! Love it!
I love this book. The artwork is incredible and its always interesting to see the imagination behind a good fantasy film. Brian Froud is a master at bringing imagination vividly to life. This book is a must for any fantasy or Dark Crystal fans.
This was a beautifully illustrated book packed full of world-building info for the dark crystal. I only wish I'd checked it out sooner!
haven't actually READ it but this book is sooo cool.
look for used
BEAUTIFUL! The detail is fabulous!
Lots of very pretty backstory and worldbuilding to the film
Great book and wonderful art work.
This is one of the most beautiful and amazing art books that you can imagine. Absolutely gorgeous, and a must have for anyone who likes Froud, Henson, or fantasy.
A friend of mine had this and I drooled over it while drinking a cup of tea. It has amazing sketches from the movie. I would love a copy.
Just could not get into this, the journal of Aughra. I didn't read the description, expecting a behind the scenes book with drawings. I was less than thrilled.
One of the best character and visual compilations ever.
Absolutely loved film and had to get book-brilliant
