https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7747263-misguided-angel
I do not exaggerate when I say that absolutely nothing happens in this book to advance the overall plot, very disappointing. I would be annoyed if I had actually purchased this novel. Barely worth the read. The writing is trite and cliched in the extreme. Teenagers act like they are 50, which I guess I could accept had that been the case from the start of the series, but it wasn't.
I'm almost half way done this book. So far, its really boring. ----> so i have finally finished this book and there are no words to describe how disappointed i am. the first five books were amazing!however this book kind of ruined the series.----> I guess you can say that I'm in between loving it and totally hating it. To be honest it wasn't that bad, but it wasn't that good at the same time... the book needed something more to make it more interesting ....
I EVEN find mimi 10x more interesting, especially with oliver around we see a much kinder side to her, they're both as vulnerable as each other and as much as mimi denies that she can ever relate to oliver "red blood", she later on realized he's like her new safety blanker - i wish there was some romance there but since their thinking of rescuing kinsley that idea is down drain, but you never know :) I love kingsley anyway The new blue blood, she seems/acts like she can kick ass and i already love her.
The Blue Blood series didn't interest me as much as other books I have read. They are very good and will keep you on edge. I am skeptical though. The last book, The Van Alen Legacy, was not as good as I had hoped. I was not sad when it was over. It was probably my least favorite in the series to date. i hope that Misguided Angel will be better than the last. I do recommend these books though.
Andreas becomes Dre. Tomasia becomes Tomi and Giovanni becomes Gio. This is all fine and well (and very lazy) but later on when a character drops a huge bomb by saying "Andreas" I started flipping through the book trying to remember who that was.
I feel like that was a fail on the authors part for not giving information to the reader properly.
Which makes me feel like their relationship is just two kids playing house.Second of all, they don't talk.
I think Melissa de la Cruz was too rigid with her rules.
I knew from the beginning it would end bad..I don't need perfection, but I hate when authors write about things pretending they know the subject well, when they don't.She started giving names of places in Liguria and food and houses, she might as well have said "I'm so cultured while you don't even know what I'm talking about" (while she probably just used Wikipedia and Maps), but still, I couldn't complain, she wasn't saying anything wrong (kind of..).Then Jack and Schuyler meet those armed man: "The modern world had brought them cell phones and Internet-cafes, yet they lived in several-hundred-year-old farmhouses with no heating, and continued to make their bread and sausage by hand"; No heating, seriously?!
Blue Bloods series has always been a guilty pleasure for me, I know the series's flaws, but I can live with them.Actually I'm here to pimp my Blue Bloods fanarts a bit.Drawing of Deming Chan, Angel of Mercy/Kuan Yin.Mimi and Kingsley:(link: http://vampirekiki.deviantart.com/art...)The rest of my Blue Bloods fanarts:http://vampirekiki.deviantart.com/gal...
I don’t even know how to explain it when a book in a series that isn’t spectacular is worse than the ones before it but this was just too petty for me to be actually interested in what was going on.
The previous books balance the drama and the important stuff pretty well, and this one just didn’t.
Also the flashbacks usually tie in with what is currently happening in the book and while I remember how the issue in the flashback ended and what that meant for the present I CANNOT remember how the actual problem that is present in this novel is solved/explained?
Besides these 3 stories there was also snippets of the earlier "Venators" in the 1400's tracking down silver bloods as well as demons.I am really beginning to like Mimi, she becomes more likable in each new BB book.
I think it was a good idea to bring in some fresh characters to keep the story from getting old.
I'm always excited to start the next BB book right after I read one but I just have to many series to finish up.
It looks like I'm going to have to incorporate that somewhere in between the Blue Bloods books.
The book doesn’t really have an ending.
Perhaps too much time had passed since I read the fourth book, or maybe it just wasn’t that memorable.
The book is split into parts: One part is Schuyler and Jack’s story in Europe.
A third section introduces a new character Deming Chen.
Interspersed in the first section is a flashback to Florence, Italy in 1452.
For example, the whole time I was reading the second section, Schuyler and Jack were missing.
The flashbacks did not get tied in until the very end.
The ending was extremely rushed.I understand that there are more books coming in this series.
Reading this the second time taught me that I didn't like this one as much as I had thought.
I originally thought that the previous book was my least favorite.
This is why it's good to re-read series of books.I liked the first part of the book.
I had actually thought they were in it a lot longer than they were.
I still don't like Mimi.
However, that happens when you are used to having everything you want.I'm hoping that I still enjoy the rest of the series.
I've been wrong about two books so far.
(Or so I hope.)
I first thought they were like Sky, Ollie and Jack, after finishing the book I am not even sure.
He should have talked sense to her before embarking on their journey to look for Catherine of Seine.To conclude the story we have learned that all things are interconnected; Mari Elena, the Petruvian Order, The Trio (Tomasia and the group), and the sly Paul.So Kinglsey’s a major character and I think we’ll get to see more of him in the next book.
Here’s what I expect of the next book, the rescue of Kingsley Drexel Martin, the surrender of Jack Force, the search for the Gate of Promise of Sky, and the venator team going to the Middle East to annihilate Nephilims.
Fans will love this severely action-packed fifth book and the blend of old and new characters coming forth, and will find that that Melissa De La Cruz did not disappoint.Summary of the book☆Blue Bloods Site☆Analyze Your Blood QuizAs an avid Blue Bloods fan, I was eagerly awaiting the arrival of it's fifth successive novel.
I love when angel wings are placed on a cover; I just have this thing for 'em.Reading the Blue Bloods series has always proven to be an adventure for me.
And then you have Deming who is about to meet up with her twin sister and two other blue bloods like her to hunt down the nephilim.I can't wait to see what happens in the next installment (which is annoyingly enough not due out until NEXT October) but Melissa will be releasing a novella with three love stories (so we might see how Sky and Jack said bye, the deal with Mimi and Oliver, and who knows what else...) People who do not like the series is because they are expecting for something along the lines of Twilight.
When I first read throught it I was shocked to see that a new character was brought into the story.
The first section of the story was told in schuylers point and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
The thing that shocked me the most that near the end of the book Jack says he's going back to new York so ha can face the blood trial so he and Schuyler can be together, while schuyler goes to Egypt.
Jack says in the end of their part that he is going to bond to her before they part.
Score SheetAll out of tenCover:  8Plot:  4Characters: 6World Building: 8Flow:  7Series Congruity: 8Writing: 7Ending: 7Total: 5In DeptBest Part: There was a new character POV i liked.Worst Part: Mimi is still alive...Thoughts Had: Shut up Mimi!; Whoa, i like you!; F**k that!ConclusionContinuing the Series: yahRecommending: ehShort Review: This book was 75% pointless.
I am so over Mimi, and i need someone to stake her already, please.
She needs to be put down.
As well as S...(however you spell her name), total shellfish B.
Review in GIF Form:
I don't know why I keep reading these books.
I had forgotten a lot since reading the last Blue Blood novel.
I also felt at times like I was reading a mash-up of Twilight (vampires), The Hunger Games (since when was Schuyler an archer?), and Harry Potter (spells?
The author skipped the designer names this time around and replaced them with pop culture references (Twilight, True Blood, and Glee) which I thought were pretty cheesy.
I have to know how the story ends and this book felt more like one long chapter that created more questions than answers.
again it is divided into perspective of 3 girls (Mimi,Schuyler,Deming Chen) the fifth installment of the book contains romance, A LOT of complications and a very rich gothic history...
but i didn't know that they performed the  Sacred Kiss but reading sky's perspective was enjoyable lot of very romantic moments and it's really good to see that she and Jack are helping each other out, they have each others back and fighting the bad guys together..
well if Kingsley won't be resurrected (i sure hope he does) Oliver and Mimi would make a cute couple.
The author has created a great group of characters and has invented a totally original and entertaining vampire mythology--not an easy thing to do these days.
Schuyler and Jack are in the story for the first 80 pages, then everything flips to Mimi back in New York.
But then it does look like Cruz is trying to expand the storyline by telling more of it from Mimi's perspective and by adding in the new character of Deming.
One of the best things about these books is that all the characters are unpredictable, and you might find yourself surprised about who you consider to be your favorite characters in the end.
We don't spend much time with them before Cruz switches to telling the story from Mimi Force's perspective.
It does look like Cruz is trying to expand the storyline by telling more of it from Mimi's perspective and by adding in the new character of Deming.
Deming looks to be a promising character and brings some interesting background to this story.As with all of Cruz's book this book was well-written and easy to read.
I just felt like Cruz is either running out of ideas for this series or confused about where she wants to take the story.
Instead of switching characters POV every chapter, the book is divided into four parts; part one by schulyer, part two by Mimi, part three by deming, and then a brief part four by all three.
Before Schuyler heads off to the real gate in Alexandria and Jack to NY to face Mimi, they decided to complete their bond which they don't do in this book.
Mimi and Oliver are off to Alexandria to go through the gate of promise to retrieve kingsley.
Deming is off the Alexandria to search out more nephilim.That was pretty much it.
The fifth book to BLUE BLOODS is definitely the most action/thriller/mystery-packed book in the series and it might not be for everyone.
It helps a lot to have read the previous books in the series or else you might get lost trying to understand all the chemistry and connections between the characters.
And sometimes, even though you may have read all previous books, you'll still get lost if you don't know all the allusions in the books to Lucifer, fallen angels and historical events.
Overall, it was a very interesting read that's sure to satisfy your action/thriller/mystery needs.
Don't get me wrong this book was amazing.
I can't explain it, but that was the amazing part of the book.
I think this book lacked some plot and talked more about connections, friendships, and romance, but i believe that the plot, action and fighting will escalate (hopefully) in the next 2 or 3 books.
This book was more of an addition to The Van Allen Legacy, and a cliffhanger for the next book Bloody Valentine.
Either way this was still an amazing->O.K. book.
I just couldn't enjoy this book.
This basically felt like 3 different short stories that tie together with only the thinnest of threads.
Jack and Schuyler were like something out of a cheesy romance novel.
Mimi was okay, but she's lost a lot of what made her awesome.
However, I did kind of like her growing friendship with Oliver.
I've enjoyed the other books so much, and this one just felt like a big letdown.
Not to mention, there was a lot of Melissa de la Cruz just showing us how cool she is and how much she knows about pop culture.
The book is three storylines in one - Jack and Schuyler on the run, Mimi and the peeps back home and newbie Deming Chen.Jack and Schuyler were so dang boring, they made me want to poke out my eyeballs.
Mimi's storyline was slightly more interesting - I liked her interactions with Oliver.
Deming Chen was the most interesting, although is book 5 really the time to introduce a new character?The book was short, the plot thin -- you could probably skip this one and have no problems figuring out what happens in book 6.
Can't remember when I read this in April, but I finished it and literally remember nothing. I just want to finish the last book in the series for everything to be wrapped up.
GOOD I CAN'T WAIT FOR THIS BOOK!
The two main characters Schuyler and Jack and their love have become less interesting whereas Mimi, the bitchy Queen Bee and Angel of Destruction has remain fun, interesting and she is evolving into a more complex character.
I hope that the diminishment of the vampiric angels continues to be played out and I like the variations of angel, human and demon and all the possible hybrids that being explored.
Although I fear Jack and Schuyler will remain a rather boring variation of Romeo and Juliet, heroic, in love and please lighten up a bit, I am yawning.
There is almost nothing redeeming about these books and I end walking away with a headache because I'm one of those people that NEEDS to understand the plot.
So why do I continue to pick up these books and flip through them like candy?....Then again, I ask myself the same question when I've just eaten a whole bag of Cheetos.
They're decent (they actually try to have a plot), they don't make me angry, they're quick which is one thing I can really appreciate, but...First off, let's start with the good.Mimi.
You follow Jack around like heroine in an 1980's cartoon show.
The beginning of the story was nice.
Though I didn't like the rest honestly.
The descriptions of settings was brilliant but it felt rushed and I was very confused for most of the story.
The relationship between Schuyler and Jack was nice, but there was no backstory for it so the reader can't connect with it, and there was no real connection to the reader in any circumstance.
It reminds me of Twilight, except with angels, a sane relationship, and the potential to be amazing, but it just wasn't
