https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43352.I_ll_Be_Seeing_You
I really, really enjoyed the book. It got a little slow in the middle for me, that's why I gave it 4 stars, but it still ended well. Also, this is why I can't say that I loved it. I just feel like it all came together in the last 20 pages or so. I was getting so anxious for the conclusion to find out the truth. The ending was a surprise. I do like how MHC answered all of the lingering questions. Another good one MHC. One of my favorite authors.
A crazy story, with plenty of twists and turns; it gripped me from beginning to end!
Just a really easy summer-read mystery novel. There are a few plot issues if you start to analyze things. Better to just go along for the ride and not think too much.
This is the first Mary Higgins Clark book I've read. The writing isn't great, but the woman tells a good yarn and manages to make it exciting along the way, and there's a lot to be said for that.
And thus the criticism begins.The protagonist of this story was as bland.
It ended every chapter of his POV with some vaguely threatening comment about Megan.
None of the characters commented on the ethics.
For example; "Megan felt bad that Bernie fixated on people, it was a problem with his brain, and he tried to restrain himself.
All he really wanted was love." Or even; "Megan thought that bernie deserved to burn for what he did.
"Bernie fixated on Megan.
He went to jail."Overall this book might be okay for people just looking for an adventure.
My grandmother loves both authors, having read all of their books countless times.
I’ll Be Seeing You makes for light reading, despite its suspense, and it’s beach-y fun.I don’t want to give too much of the plot away, as its surprisingly full of twists and turns.
Meghan’s life gets stranger when she receives a fax that tells her Annie was a mistake.
And who really was Meghan’s father?Clearly Mary Higgens Clark put a lot of research and thought into this book, as it covers amazing details about genetics and its roles in biology and psychology.
She introduces many characters, and at times, the plot gets convoluted.
Wow, this book had me on the edge of my seat at the end.
If you want to read a good mystery with a lot of twists and turns that smoothly come together at the end read I'll Be Seeing You. You won't be sorry.If you want a little bit about the book here it is:The story of Meghan Collins: Meghan's father (an executive search partner) is thought dead but no one can find his body, he has been leading a double life with a wife and daughter in Scottsdale, the second daughter (Annie) looks just like Meghan and is killed...other things going on are a fertility clinic that has screwed up the eggs, one of the doctors (who it turns out isn't a doctor) is killed and the police think all this is the fault of Meghan's dad who they don't believe is dead.
It is an easy read suitable for a cross country flight or a day at the beach.
I first read it when I was 14.
It gets 4 stars from me because I think it is a fun book for its category, and my favorite of Mary's many, many books.
And I do like Mary when I am in the mood; she is like watching Lifetime television.
Most of the leading women in her books are lawyers or reporters.
(NYU trained lawyer turned reporter?)It is a fun little mystery.
Think: Lifetime in the Daytime.
She writes books that are exciting and very easy to read.
I became involved in the story as well as with the characters and couldn't put it down until I found out what happened.
Just a side note...this book is based in Newtown, CT which is referred to as a "ritzy little town." Who knew that in 2012 that town would figure so tragically in the news with the elementary school shooting?Favorite quote about life: "There are some events in our lives, Meghan, he'd told her, that no matter how old we get, the memory still hurts.
I read this book looking for candy.
It ended up being fun in the way that doing the same thing over and over again is fun.
It followed the standard formula of intrigue, mystery, man and woman who realize they been there all along fall in love as the should have been.
Women gets saved from murder at the last minute by said man.
You know, it's like every other movie or book out there.
A benefit , the ending doesn't suck.
The last chapter isn't just a quick throw away summary with man and woman kissing, but had some decent and relevant more story.
Reporter, Meghan Collins, is trying to solve the mystery behind her father’s recent death when, on assignment in a New York City Hospital, she sees the corpse of a murdered woman who could have been her double.
She can’t shake the belief there is a connection and soon finds herself deep into an investigation that puts her life in danger.This is the 5th of the 75 books in my 2012 reading challenge and the first Mary Higgins Book I’ve read.
I’ll Be Seeing You is a quick and easy read, with an interesting plot and plenty of suspense.
Although it is not a hard-boiled mystery, and probably more appealing to YA mystery readers, I enjoyed it.
Once again Mary Higgins Clark did not disappoint me. The character development in her books is some extensive that at times you feel like you're getting too much information but someone she manages to tie it all together to make an amazing suspense novel. Can't wait to read another one of her books.
That being said, instead of giving this one a perfect 5 star, I'm giving it 4 stars.But after finishing this story, I just realized how this book had everything (remembering the first few pages, maybe not everything but almost everything) that I want for a suspense story.
Plus adding a dash of romance just made it for me,*wink.For stories like this, I don't usually talk more about the main character unless they did something crazy that really annoyed the heck out of me or if I really love them.
MHC sure used all her cards in this story plus the major-major suspense scene at the ending was crazy.
Fast paced, clean suspense from Mary Higgins Clark. This was a complex, twisting plot that involved many sub-plots and kept me riveted and guessing from start to finish.
Meghan’s main external conflict is getting stressed out from all of her issues and still try to figure everything out.Wile reading this book I made a text-to-text connection.
Meghan searching and devoted to find out her fathers past remind me of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince by J.K. Rowling.
Just like how Meghan was searching for her fathers past, Harry was trying to search for Voldemorts past.
Even though Harry has training and Meghan has work they both devote their lives to help someone.I’d rate this book four stars.
Lovely book that kept me doing anything but reading nonstop every time I got to continue reading.Very thrilling story and her writing got to keep on reading until find out what is next.My favourite writers (out of very few ,Danielle Steel and Mary Higgins, Patricia Cornwall) and I am a Fan of Mary Higgins.
People are saying some books are all have the same way of writing and the flow and the Story lines are alike .
It becomes a real rollercoaster ride from beginning to end.Another lovely reading that made me very thrilling.
(I used to make up stories all the time when I was a kid).
I was also a huge fan of Mary Higgins Clark when I was twelve.
Though, I look at the date this book was published, and it was before there were hundreds of crime shows on television that did this exact same story.
If you're looking for a quick, easy read, then here's your book.
It's also very pre-teen appropriate.
Very little swearing, no sex, very appropriate for middle school aged children.
I do think Mary Higgins Clark did an excellent job with character development in this book.
heroína, que lo puede todo, donde todo se esclarece en las últimas diez páginas y pensé que esta vuelta había acertado con el culpable, pero no, me sorprendió un poco el final.
Meghan Collins es periodista de televisión.
Está cubriendo una nota en la sala de emergencias de un hospital cuando irrumpe una camilla con el cuerpo apuñalado de una joven.
cuando Meghan mira el rostro exánime de la víctima, le parece verse reflejada en un espejo.
A partir de ese momento, Meghan comienza a develar una compleja maraña de secretos inconfesables que atañen a las personas mas cercanas a su propia vida.
I've read quite a few Mary Higgins Clark novels.
I do like her style of writing and that's why I return to them.
She does get stuck in the "cookie cutter author mode", meaning that her books are fairly predictable because she follows a pattern.
" I'll Be Seeing You" was pretty good with the main plot following journalist Meghan Collins investigation into her father's mysterious disappearance.
There is also a secondary plot line that weaves in and out of the first, Meghan's life is threatened by a man who shadows her.
So it was fairly good.
So it was good. It was not my favorite book by Mary Higgins Clark but definetly not the wrost. I loved the differents characters and the facts about in vitro. I didn't saw the end coming (well not every part...) Donc c'était bon. Ce n'était pas mon livre favori par Mary Higgins Clark mais ce n'était pas le pire non plus. J'ai aimé les différents personnages et les informations sur le in vitro. Je n'ai pas vu la fin venir (bien pas toutes les parties...)
So you have a twin you've never met, or is that so? A genetically modified person who looks exactly like you has been found murdered, a chopper stuck in her heart, and you receive a chilling fax that says "Mistake. Annie was a mistake."Oopsies. He's after you.
3.5, really, but bumped up for the Cozy Mystery factor. I have a lot of feelings about MHC books, most of them good.This book is also from 1994, which was kind of a great time warp.
as one reviewer said "like a lifetime television special".
A very light, simple read. Good for a "non-thinking" sort of read. Don't read it if you want to be challenged mentally. I don't think I'll be reading books from this author any time soon.
Light easy read, nothing special but an entertaining way to pass the time.
A can't put down book. One turn after another, breathtaking events and unexpected happenings take one tragedy and add it to another, until what was always thought to be true becomes a lie.
The story was entertaining and engaging but I felt there was a real missed opportunity that was too coincidental that kept this book from gaining more stars.(view spoiler)[ The biggest problem I had was with Meg and Anne's similar appearances.
The story would have been  much  stronger if Meg and Anne had been conceived via in-vitro - this would have further connected her father to the clinic and added more suspicion to him which would have fit well in the story and was a real missed opportunity.
Having two crazed killers (Phillip and Bernie) was another too coincidental element - just like Meg and Anne being somehow identical- that weakened the story.
The author is getting better, but still likes to add 'she twisted here hair into a french knot and pinned it up', or 'her hair was in a loose chifon', or on the romance angle, 'he thought about how long he had suppressed his feelings for her'.
Yet this story was good, and kept this reader wondering who the bad guy was until the last 50 pages or so.
If you like things neat and tidy when you get to the end, let's just say that all questions are answered regarding the bad guy, but the underlying foundation that drives the story is in shambles.
Then strange things start to happen and the police believe he is still alive.
Meghan is a news reporter and is given time off and she begins searching for clues as to what happened and if her father was really alive.
She finds out things about her father that she would have never believed and that he wasn't exactly the man she thought he was Also the man that parks cars where she works becomes infatuated with Meghan and he has mental issues.
Stories moves along at a good pace and the reader is kept wanting more.
Absolutely amazing, brimming with suspense and thrill and of course a touch of madness. Mary Higgins Clark is one of my absolute favourite authors. I know she can never ever disappoint me. Like, EVER. (Yeah that's a TSWIFT reference. Got a prob?) I absolutely love the accuracy of the science involved, its a fantastic read, bound to keep you awake all night. The craziest thing is that the story included so many characters and so many point of views and yet it did not overwhelm me, it was perfect.
