https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76975.The_Short_Wave_Mystery
I read all the Hardy Boys, Nancy Drew, and Tom Swift books as a kid. These series are the reason I became a life long reader. So I just got a hankering to read one for nostalgia sake. Fun!
What stands out in this particular book (perhaps all Hardy Boys books?) is how often they call Chet (the boys' best chum) "fat." Or "stout." As in, "By the time the two brothers had reached their fat friend's side..." or "The fat boy sat on the sidelines..." or "we've certainly left our fat friend in the lurch for a long time..." (all actual quotes).
A ransom note from the bad guys: "HARDYS YOUR FAT FRIEND WILL NOT RETURN UNTIL YOU LAY OFF YOUR DETECTIVE WORK." Ha!
Dixon, circa 1945, wanted young boys to find fat Chet repulsive and want to be good, in-shape citizens like Frank & Joe.
This story is good story by Franklin W. Dixon. This story has a lexile of 760. If you don't know what these books are about, they basically two brothers and their fat friend Chet. This story is about 2 brothers who get drawn to a mystery when thieves steal stuffed animals at an estate sale. Then they see a car carrying stuffed animals...  The central idea of the book is that they're trying to find who took the stuffed animals because the person who made them hid treasure in one of them before he
This story is about 2 brothers who get drawn to a mystery when thieves steal stuffed animals at an estate sale.
The central idea of the book is that they're trying to find who took the stuffed animals because the person who made them hid treasure in one of them before he died.
The plot affects the setting and makes frank more wise when he gets captured.It wasn't my favorite of the hardy boys but it was good.
I would give it a 3 out of a 5 star rating, just because a read other hardy boy books and they were a lot better.
This is a very solid entry in the Hardy Boys series, but it is definitely dated.
Skype and other internet communication platforms have overtaken short-wave radio in popularity, so anyone under the age of about 40 is going to have to look up a few words.Sidenote: Short-wave is still used around the world, and I was amazed at just how much equipment is available out there at a very reasonable cost.
That said, the mystery is pretty solid and tracking down the crooks took Frank and Joe international this time.
It is a lot of fun, and definitely one to share with your kids.Read It!
I used to read Nancy Drew and Hardy Boys books all the time when I was a kid and I decided to pick this up when I was visiting a used book store just for old times' sake.
It was pretty good, I wouldn't say it was one of the best books of the old series of Hardy Boys, but it was enjoyable and the mystery made sense.
I also picked up a couple of the books from the 80's series and I was thinking that I might read a book from each iteration of the Hardy Boys, and maybe do the same thing with Nancy Drew later on.
it was a good book but Nancy drew rocks. i love reading detective novels they bring a wide era of views to one. i liked the way everything was explained . i loved the brother bonding and a message for crime against poaching . it was thrilling .
Frank and Joe are on the trail of thieves stealing a stuffed animal collection, and their journey to Northern Canada ends up crossing paths with an investigation by their father! Dixon takes readers on another exciting adventure with this entry!
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
A bit above par, with the code deciphering and the action near the end.
I've read this several times since the 60s, in at least two versions/editions. I'd like to get the original edition so I could compare it.
I really liked how the hardy boys take on the case with skill, it is really exiting to find out the other part of the story like what where the crooks really up to?
Great one! Some highlights are the boys trying to decode messages over the short wave, the trip to Canada, and Aunt Gertrude yelling about an ape in the yard.
Loved the wintery snowy setting of this one. Also loved the short-wave stuff! I love old tech. Radio parts, huh? This is another story that McFarlane had a lot of issues with, but I like it.
This is one of the few Hardy Boys stories where I actually remembered some of the details from when I first read it as a kid in the 1960s - I remembered that Chet's hobby in this one was taxidermy and also that the mystery had something to do with Hudson's Bay.Well I would rate this one as just average based on my reread.
Of course they crashed just over a hill from where Spike Hudson had his hideout on Hudson's Bay so the Hardys were able to rescue them and nab the crook at the same time!I think when I originally read this, I was really intrigued by Chet's hobby of taxidermy and his workshop over the Hardy garage.
September (1st book report)Hardy Boys: The Short-Wave MysteryFranklin W.
DixonIn this book Frank And Joe also known as the Hardy boys go on an adventure to hunt down the people behind the Short Wave Mystery.
As Frank and Joe were in their study upstairs in their room a scrambled voice came over their short wave radio.
This was just the beginning of The Short-Wave Mystery.This series not just this book has many themes all the way from A to Z.
These are the themes and or main ideas I came up for The Short-Wave Mystery.
The book, Hardy Boys The Short-Wave Mystery by Franklin W.
That night they wait outside to see who will come out and a little boy comes out and says that it's his uncles cabin and he came at night so he could see him because his parents do not like seeing him or their son seeing him.
In my opinion isn't the number one Hardy Boys book I have read, it's behind the Wailing Siren Mystery that involves boats, and fishing, and docks.
It involves large body's of water witch I like.
Picked this one up for two reasons: it is about radio in the golden age and it was a first edition for a $1.50.
I'm not sure they are still relevant, but they provided me with a nostalgic journey back to a time 25 years after they were published when I first encountered them as a very young reader.
They were relevant then, but the world didn't move as fast back then.
That same lapse of time usually fails to connect with young readers of today.
It was a good rainy day read sitting in front of my radio listening to Morse code exchanges and static crashes and thinking fondly of a bygone era.
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.The two boys live in the fictional city of Bayport (on Barmet Bay) with their famous father, Fenton Hardy, a private detective formerly with the New York Police Department, their mother Laura Hardy (erroneously called Mildred in The Flying Express), and their Aunt Gertrude, a character often used for comic relief.
This book was very good maybe a little to easy for an eighth grader but overall i liked this book. the author really knows how to describe things mainly because its a mystery and mysteries are supposed to put emotion in you.I love reading mysteries and sometimes the book is just to easy i figure it out in the beginning but this one was different i actually had to read to find out i loved this book and would recommend this book for younger kids.
i got this book at a yard sale in the "free" box. these are well known so I thought I would give it a try. Not bad at all if I might say so. i try to read classics as if I was reading it back when it was written. this was written in 1966 and I did like it, I loved the old school language: phrases like, "far out" " don't be a bear" or they drove to the airport and took off in a "sleek jet". i think young kids would still like these books today.
The Short Wave Mystery is about a mysterious cabin they find in the woods. In the cabin is an uncle and his grandson. They rise suspicion and capture the boy as he comes out the cabin to question him.This book was not the greatest book I have read. I didn't like how the author wrote the story. I would not recommend this book to anyone really. I didn't like it but someone else mite.
This was a suspenseful book that that describes the adventure of the two Hardy brothers. Their mission was to solve who was stealing the taxidermy animals and who was talking on the short- wave radio.
Charlie and I continue our reading adventure through my childhood favorites, the Hardy Boys. We really liked this one even though Chet's hobby in this one was a bit out there - taxidermy. Think the traveling that took place and some the quirky characters made it fun for us.
I've been enjoying Hardy Boys/Nancy Drew TV show from the 1970's, so I wanted to give them a read in book form. Choose it based on the cover, since I am in snow and ice. They didn't actually get to the snow and ice until the end of the book, but that's OK.
This was a good old action packed Hardy Boys mystery I enjoyed it), only thing that got me was that their father sent them on really dangerous missions a couple of times, had them miss a couple of days of school a couple of times and everything (hilarious).
Excellent series for young readers - highly recommended. I read these books when I was 10 - 15 years of age.
Ham radio, taxidermy, industrial espionage, and salvaged youth--all concluding in Timmins, Canada. What's not to like?
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
read and enjoyed these books when I was primary school.
read when I was 10 through 13
