https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123063.Under_the_Skin
I was supposed to write this review a month ago but life happened and the right moment did not seem to materialize.
However, I feel obliged to write a few words.I will begin with the strong recommendation not to read any blurb before starting Under The Skin.
Please do not dismiss this novel because you see that the main genres is Science Fiction, Horror and Fantasy.
There might be a touch of SF but the main ideas have nothing to do with space travel and the such.
At its core, Under the skin is a moral story and asks the question of what makes us human?
UPDATE!This is a very unusul situation for me, but this is a very unusual book.
The director Jonathan Glazer doesn't do many movies but he did do Sexy Beast which is a must-see, and he did do this amazing advert :http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q-ut_2...So bring it on!
Posted at HeradasLiterary science fiction that is compulsively creepy and disturbing in all the right ways.
Orwellian by way of Ursula Le Guin or Octavia Butler.
I think fans of Jeff VanderMeer's style of New Weird fiction would have a lot to enjoy here.It's a moral story, without particularly taking any one side, mostly just intended to provoke some discussion I imagine.
It could easily be interpreted as an animal rights activism novel, but I'm not so sure it actually is.
I thouroghly enjoyed Under the Skin; very unnerving and hard to put down.I read this before watching the film, and loved both.
Now this book warns me against the other side of hitchhiking: standing by the road with your thumb in the air.
Again, don’t do it.This book is all about The Reveal.
The words are made up and duly explained as the plot unveiled itself in those excruciating increments.If you have absolutely no intention of reading this book and just want to understand the hoopla, here goes: (view spoiler)[Isserley is actually an alien modified to pass (just barely) as a human.
(hide spoiler)]Maybe 60% into the book, you understand the big secret and the plot falters.
If the man who accepts a ride from Isserley feels sad that her breasts are fake and thinks to himself that women's natural breasts are the most beautiful - regardless of size or shape - then this is Faber's way of letting us know that this man is a good person.
I laughed out loud at least 30 times in the course of reading this book - Isserley's comments and observations are TOO FUNNY and likewise the observations and thoughts the men she picks up are having about her.
Sometime in March Craig posted on our book group Facebook page the following message:“Hello Group,At the risk of sounding alarmist, I want to alarm you all.I am currently rereading Under The Skin for about the sixth time, and I noticed today from tube adverts that the film adaptation is out March 14 or 15.
This is a novel which is all about the big reveal, and Michel Faber delights in teeeeeeasing the reader with the smallest of hints and nudges.All I can tell you, spoiler free, is this - an attractive, lone woman, Isserley, drives on the A9 motorway through the Scottish Highlands, searching for hitch-hikers.
The hitch-hikers she picks up, tranquilizers and brings to the farm are nothing more than cattle - after they are castrated and have their tongues removed they are fattened, butchered and sent off via spaceship to the Alien Burger King.
Faber's whole plot - Isserley, hitch-hikers, the farm - makes no sense at all, and is there only because the author needs it to be there.
One person's idea of being human does not necessarily match another's (look at the shameful aspects of colonialism and slavery), and yet, under the skin, perhaps we're all the same - made of stardust.(view spoiler)[The nub of the story is that Isserley and the others on the farm where she lives, are "humans" from another time or place, but they are naturally furry quadrupeds with tails, and they see our sort of humanity as sub-human.
ogling her in fascinated pity, they had ganged up to douche her with reassurance", and yet later we learn that "mercy" is "untranslatable in her own tongue; it was a concept that just didn't exist".Isserley is awed by the natural beauty around her, especially the abundance of water and air - and life in general, though it leaves Esswiss cold.
4.5 stars. Will talk about it in my next wrap up :)
That's despite that I already have 700+ books in different genres in my read folder.
What I am trying to say is that if you love one of these genres, there is something in this book for you.(3) A writer who is interested on how to play with POVs. The bulk of the book is told in Isserly's point of view but every time there is a hitchhiker who has just got in her car, the POV shifts to him and I just loved knowing what the young man thinks of Isserly.
The story follows, Isserley, a female driver who picks up hitchhikers for secret purposes.
She needs a certain type of guy: big muscled, tall and fit.
What her reason is of needing these guys remains a mystery for a long time.
During the rides, Isserley observes the hitchhiker while they try to get to know each other.
Especially since the hitchhikers are more busy ogling Isserley than seeing the threat she actually is for them.
“Most distracting of all, though, was not the threat of danger but the allure of beauty.” The roles are reversed in Under the Skin and the female driver is the creepy one.
human brutality?—set in a version of the Highlands where multiple people hitchhike each day (I go frequently to the Highlands and I’ve never seen no hitchhikers—maybe Faber ate them all?) The story begins with our big-breasted heroine Isserley picking up a series of unemployed assholes and stabbing them in the buttocks with a stun chemical activated via her dashboard.
As a lapsed vegan I read the story from an animal perspective: vodsel farming being almost as brutal as cow or chicken farming (but not quite).
Most of the people I picked up were guys in their 20s - fit, healthy men who would have been perfect targets for the protagonist of Under The Skin.In Michael Faber's novel a lone woman named Isserley cruises the backroads of Scotland, picking up healthy, muscular male hitchers.
Under the Skin slowly reveals the answers to these questions and I stayed up late with this book, caught up in Isserley's pained and conflicted life to the point where the novel consumed my thoughts all the following day.
This annoyance aside under the Skin is a standout novel - a thoughtful, poignant and sad story with a strong message.
On the film's trailer/synopsis/general promotion, just a couple of things: 1) There's a spoiler innit concerning the who-what of the main character that the book opted to slow-reveal, which creates this weird situation where the trailer makes you want to see the movie which makes you want to read the book, while also ruining the book a little, a book which you (me) wouldn't even have known about had it not been for that book-spoilering trailer, so it's not that big of deal because it was kind of a necessary sacrifice in order to know about the trailer about the movie about the book, but still.
That movie that I haven't even seen yet can't possibly be much like this book that I actually have read, just based on these imagery buzzwords: hotchick, cityscapes, sexyclothes, at-the-mall, out-in-public, seduction, lipstick, no-glasses, no-scars, normal-naked.
So I can't tell you what it's really about, only give you much the same outline the blurb does (which, as I re-read it now, knowing the true story, is actually quite cleverly written in the way it acts upon our assumptions - playing with language is key to this novel, but I'll get to that).
. I actually enjoy being pulled out of my comfort zone, seeing a different perspective - even if it's ultimately "wrong" - and trying to understand a different way of thinking.)Not being able to "reveal" what's really going on in the novel does make it hard to talk about all the things this book makes me so eager to discuss, especially language.
This was the perfect book for reading on rainy Scottish highways last week.
I’m so glad I decided at the last minute to bring it along on our trip to Wigtown.Isserley drives along Highland roads picking up hitchhikers – but only the hunky males – to take back to her farm near the Moray Firth.
It’s likely that you already know the setup of this even if you haven’t read it, perhaps from the buzz around the 2013 film version starring Scarlett Johansson.
It must have been so difficult for the first reviewers and interviewers to discuss the book without spoilers back in 2000.
It's an uncanny novel.
Although it starts out as a classic thriller, Faber from first pages is playing with readers and misleading them.
Repeating for The Times  here nothing is what it seems  and you become more and more disoriented, for this book is nothing like you had ever read before.
At the same time engaging and repulsive.
Unsettling.
Disturbing.I'm not sure what I expected but was absolutely suprised.
Faber consistently builds tension and leads us out of the atmosphere of horror in total fantasy, mixes so many genres and then serves extraordinary dish, neither thriller nor a crime story, nor science fiction.

Non sono un'amante dei piatti di carne, vivo ai limiti di una anemia che mi spossa, ma imperterrita evito, se appena posso sottrarmi, di nutrirmi con ciò che, essendo di origine animale, potrebbe rimpinguare le mie scarsissime scorte di ferro.Ma essendo nata nella terra che dà i natali al crudo, al salame di Felino e al culatello, devo dire che l'astensione totale del consumo di carne, non è cosa mia.Ehm. Diciamo però che questa lettura ha ulteriormente minato la mia già scarsa propensione al consumo di carne.Una curiosa satira fantascientifica sui rapporti di potere, sulla labilità del concetto di umanità e su quanto siamo pronti a differenziarci dal nostro prossimo se questo può evitarci problemi.
Ma curiosamente ho notato che in nessuno dei due casi si vedono mai né polli né suini "vivi"; in effetti siamo così abituati a vedere polli allo spiedo e salami che raramente ci soffermiamo a pensare ai relativi animali come esseri viventi.Ecco, per farmi capire meglio questa associazione, questo bel libro di Faber mi ha trasformato in un bel cappone.E mi ha fatto parecchio male, direi, dato che il trattamento riservatomi non è stato tra i più piacevoli.Bisogna sempre cambiare prospettiva, per capire veramente le cose.Un libro strano, crudo, duro, che parlando di extraterrestri racconta di noi, di solitudine, di diversità, di capponi, di ingiustizia.
Non è un capolavoro, ma fa pensare parecchio.
This is one of the creepiest books I've read in years.
He not only has the creative imagination to come up with such a bizarre, mesmerizing story; he also has the writing chops to execute it brilliantly.
I can't think of any story I've read in the last several years that ratchets up the horror quotient so steadily, and so effectively.
Paul's review  pretty much nails it:"you only find out bit by bit and it gets weirder until you just can't stand it ".As usual, Paul gets it right.
Read his review; I can't add a whole lot.
Then there are his short stories, but that's material for a different review.
Completely captivating. To this day, this story haunts me. Takes place in Scotland and the main character is a female who picks up male hitchikers. What she does with them ... is well ... let's just say, I almost became a vegetarian, if it wasn't for being Croatian and meat-eating is a patriotic obligation. In an eery and out-of-this world way, this story forces you to examine how we treat animals.
A lonely stretch of road.
After all what could possibly be dangerous about the young woman with the large eyes?
Beware of dark roads.
Evocative and well written, this is a difficult book to review without spewing forth spoiler after spoiler in a big frothing pool of spoiler vomit.
And I feel a bit nauseous from describing pools of word vomit.
It is clear from the start that something is very wrong with the woman in the car.
The story is driven by the need to know her motivations, the reasoning behind the specific choice of prey and a desire to understand their ultimate fate.
This will haunt me for awhile, I need to go sit in a dark corner & contemplate 🙂    "Most distracting of all, though, was not the threat of danger but the allure of beauty"   In this speculative tale reminiscent of Atwood's The Handmaid's Tale we follow Isserley, a woman who is obsessed with picking up well-muscled hitchhikers on the backdrop of a Scotland Highway. Why she is picking them up and asking them personal questions, is a mystery that will reveal a dark side to this simple act.  “
In this speculative tale reminiscent of Atwood's The Handmaid's Tale we follow Isserley, a woman who is obsessed with picking up well-muscled hitchhikers on the backdrop of a Scotland Highway.
Why she is picking them up and asking them personal questions, is a mystery that will reveal a dark side to this simple act.
This one of those that I could spend hours thinking about and the whole idea of placing the reader with this woman on a lonely highway felt personal and fascinating especially when a hitchhiker comes along.
The discovery is so fantastic that it stops you in your tracks.
I really liked how Michael Faber shows us a view of our world from a very different perspective.
In that way, it is a story I will definitely remember when witnessing similar situations.
It is quite extraordinary how he manages to present us with a story that is so unlike any other that it feels like it is in a genre all by itself.
It is impossible to tell any details of the story because even one word would spoil it for others.
Pretty fantastic stuff, I thought!
I got a lot of answers and a few more questions.Stop reading unless you want the surprises spoiled.The novel introduces a woman named Isserley driving a battered red Toyota Camry up and down the A9 in the Highlands of Scotland.
They are not of this earth.Isserley has been surgically altered to resemble a "vodsel", an alien term for the crude inhabitants of Earth whose flesh, in the world of the "human beings" where Isserley is from, is consumed as a delicacy.
Isserley keeps herself in a bitter mood, her only enjoyment coming from the trees, tides, snow or clouds of Earth, natural processes which have disappeared from her world.
I've thought about being a vegetarian ...
one of my arguments has been how shameful it'll be when aliens land and see what we've done.
Now we're going to kill it and eat it.
Can you imagine how embarrassing it's going to be?
Fabulously, however, "Under the Skin" has aliens doing to us what we do to animals.
I couldn't stop reading.I'd seen the film - and loved it, really loved it - and this is equally fabulous whilst being completely different.
Isserley.Weirdly, I couldn't stop imagining Amliss Vess as Chase from "Paw Patrol":
Hands down the weirdest, and possibly most grotesque book I have ever read. It was great.
We did see the movie version of this book on Netflix a few weeks ago,althou,hubby didn't care for the movie,but me,that was a different story.I liked it!The main protagonist in the movie was Scarlett Johanssan,so I just HAD to read the book and Im soooo glad I did!The book seem to fill the gaps of the movie version,but at the same time,there are hardly,that many similar things going on between both,the book/movie.The book is one of the most bizarre and unique and unusual sci-fi storys I have read or watched for that matter.
3.0 to 3.5 stars. Very original and well written. The writer does an excellent job of unfolding the story slowly but still keeping the reader interested the entire time.
