https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17383934-the-valley-of-amazement
Many of the reader reviews I read here fall into that category.
Taken on its own, The Valley of Amazement is a marvelous, nutritious and fulfilling novel, a ripping good yarn.
But it also has a sweep and range that Tan has heretofore not managed, all the time preserving the intimate connection of the reader to the scenes, the times, and the actors portrayed.
Don’t listen to any of the naysayers, who should, perhaps, themselves write a book that will satisfy their desires rather than be petulant that Tan didn’t write it.
Read it and decide for yourself.
You will be, well, amazed.
Okay, no thank you Ms. Tan. I really don't want to know the intimate clinical details of what it was to be a prostitute in turn-of-the-century Shanghai. I don't want characters whose nearest and dearest are CONSTANTLY dying or disappearing. Tragedy upon tragedy equals yawn, in the end. You could see what was going to happen at the village the second someone said 'oh let's go to my village.' I was looking for a multi-generational/cultural saga; I got fifty different words for private parts. Off to wash my brain out.
The Valley of Amazement is that kind of novel, and so much more.This novel spans four decades from the turn of the 20th century, from Shanghai to isolated Mood Pond Village, deeply set in the mountains, to San Francisco, telling the story of three generations of women.In 1897, Lucretia (Lulu) Minturn, sixteen and pregnant by a Chinese artist, escapes her strictly conventional Western parents to the excitement of Shanghai, only to find that the life she expects there is an illusion.
There is so much to like about this novel but ultimately it is let down by too many unlikely character motivations.
Or would you just shed a few tears and move on?If you were surrounded by shysters and were taught to recognise a shyster from 20 paces, all-of-a-sudden would you up and marry one?There were just too many incidents like this - 180 degree turns in character to make the plot fit.
And that, my friends, is the one description of genitalia that is not used in this novel.
Everything about the courtesan experience is refined into a complex tradition of wheedling and enticement that’s meant to disguise these meretricious transactions as “courtship.” In Violet’s clear-eyed descriptions, we see how clients pretend to woo her mother’s employees, plying them with gifts, competing for their favors, even begging for permission to stage mock weddings.Tan doesn’t let us forget that these women are at the top of the sex trade, where they enjoy a level of financial and personal autonomy that common streetwalkers — and even middle-class Western women — can’t imagine.
They were interesting and about complicated relationships but written in an accessible and intelligent way.This current book took eight years to write and I want to say it was just an awful reading experience.
If it weren't for the very good backdrop the book would have been completely unbearable.This was a work of fiction but both characters and plot were overwrought, histrionic, flat and dull.The repetitiveness of the writing, the staleness of the storylines and the lack of psychological uniformity of the character sketches was quite simply unbelievable.
It is a testament to Tan's writing that I finished this book.
Violet Minturn, the daughter of a famed American courtesan mistress in Shanghi, is someone I didn't enjoy.
Violet is half American, half Chinese, a fact that she doesn't discover until she's 8 or 9.
Nothing her mother does is good enough and Violet never feels loved.Violet's mother decides to return to San Francisco and is tricked into leaving Violet behind.
It is like she quit growing at 14.The book is overly long.
I like to enjoy and appreciate the characters.
I like to see characters grow and mature.
While I remember little of the specific details, I do recall the mother-daughter themes that really resonated with me: family lineage and the internal identity conflicts that come with being an Asian American, the search for self-affirmation through love, and finding one's place in the family, community, and world.I got a hold of an advance copy of The Valley of Amazement from the publisher through a media publishing company I worked for.
And then Amy Tan's gold embossed name running across the cover.The title itself is alluring.
It's the lessons Tan threads into the words: that we are all products of hope and love, that only with great loss comes great gain.
I've already read Memoirs of a Geisha, and its other (better) imitators, such as The Painter from Shanghai; this novel just feels derivative and flat, its characters more recycled than human, its plot lost in tedious description.I heard an interview with Tan about this book, in which the primary topic was her extensive research, and she talked about spending a lot of time tracking down small details: for instance, when her characters traveled from Shanghai to San Francisco, would the ship have had rails?
Told in the first person by a daughter from each generation, (but mostly from one named Violet), the reader is taken on an epic journey of love, illusion, betrayal, abandonment, and redemption.
Violet, precocious half Chinese/half American daughter of Lulu, a beautiful American woman who runs a prestigious courtesan house in Shanghai, is separated from her mother by trickery.
As Lulu sails sadly away to America, Violet is forced to begin her life as a courtesan at the age of fourteen, but in a second-class establishment.
Tan's novel is like a composition on a canvas, but you are disappointed by the lack of contour and occasion for personal translation.
I don't want to add to any unfair expectation that an Amy Tan novel must have an equal amount of storytelling divided amongst members of each generation, but at some point I would have liked to stop hearing about all of Violet's woes & get more juice about her mother Lucia.
As it stands, Lucia & then Flora seem tacked on in the last 100 pages to little effect.
I was relieved when I was finished reading this & I feel like I could use some Wodehouse to cleanse my palate.
I was thrilled when I realized Amy Tan's newest protagonist is biracial: Anglo-American and Chinese.
As for the sex; there's a great deal of it, but not gratuitous; instead, it's a courageous examination of a world -- the courtesan world -- wherein the strengths and weaknesses of both women and men are constantly tested and measured by a society on the cusp of change.
As in the hidden world of the harem, Amy Tan's courtesan houses are where political and economic secrets are bared, and often where power is brokered.
Found it fascinating that the madame of the place was a white woman, who had a young daughter.
The training of a young virgin, the intimate details all became too much, I no longer cared to read constantly about the ways to please a man.
In truth the book was about a hundred pages too long for me, but while I felt bad for these young woman, I really did not like any of these characters.
So read this for a look into a little known culture, well researched but just know that in places it gets repetitive and very explicit.
Still and yet, the writing is lovely; we are used to this with Amy Tan. Grief is defined as when ‘your eyes still see but have stopped looking’.
My favorite lines had to do with a question posed to a dinner guest.
The guest responds with “I am Chinese.
Although this is my least favorite of Amy Tan’s novels and not one I would read a second time, there are plenty of reviews out there that do not share my lukewarm feelings about the book.
The appeal is probably alive and well for diehard Tan fans.
I have read some criticisms of this book in other reviews, that it was too long or too romantic.
Personally, I love a long novel if it doesn't drag.
VALLEY did have its moments where I thought it got a bit slow or perhaps could have ended sooner, but the pace always picked up.
In many ways, the romantic relationships were an intricate part of the core of the story.Overall, I really really enjoyed this book and almost wish it hadn't ended because I will miss the characters!Edited to add that I went to an Amy Tan booksigning tonight.
Spoilers.. sort of. I'm still slogging through this book.. about 100 pages left. I don't know if I can make it. Too many sex techniques, like way, way, way too many. (And I'm fond of sex information) Way too long.and it covers almost the same .location, same abusive husband/men, same mountain village and same mystical mountain pass. I'm so disappointed. I can walk that damn mountain pass in my sleep. In general, I love Tan's books.. but nothing new was brought to The Valley of Amazement.
I am not a prude nor do I mind reading prurient narrative, but this was totally over kill.Violet and Violet’s American mother, Lulu experience the same anguish when their infant daughters were abducted, and spend their life’s thinking about and yearning for their children.The harrowing journeys depicted in the novel were extremely long and terribly slow reading even while experiencing great empathy for the women.The descriptions of the clothes, the customs, the traditions and the family obligations were handled with great beauty so indicative of Ms.Tan’s talent.Ms. Tan’s beautiful writing was eclipsed by the hurry and confusion in the last 150 pages.As a long time Amy Tan fan, I was disappointed and experienced great remorse that I couldn’t sing her praises.
3.7 stars --- I enjoyed the storytelling --but it felt like a story I've read many times.
When its clear the story is going to be predictable (yet enjoyable also: as I DID enjoy reading Amy Tan again), it just doesn't take 600 pages to tell the story.
Amy Tan is an eloquent writer.
San Francisco...And the connections by a Painting...."The Valley of Amazement" In the middle of Amy Tan's storytelling, she inserts a 'quote' from "Leaves of Grass", which I happen to love very :"Not I, not anyone else can travel that road for you.You must travel if by yourself.It is not far.
I even ordered a CD (audio book) that offered a glimpse of the book and was left wanting more..I started the novel when it originally came out but along the way 'life' got in the way and I put this book on the burner...Actually, my kindle broke so I had to wait to replace it before I could continue on,however, I didn't.Sooo I repicked this book up just recently and felt excited to finally read the whole book from the start to end with no interruptions this time...I WAS DISAPPOINTED!!
Having enjoyed Amy Tan's The Hundred Secret Senses, I was excited to receive an ARC of her upcoming book.
Looked forward all week to a great read.
The premise was interesting, and I enjoyed the history woven in.
I also felt that overall the topic of courtesans was treated respectfully.
There is a lot to think about and I think book clubs will enjoy talking about various issues raised int he book.For me, the amount of detail was over the top.
Wasn't dense, felt repetitive to me.
I started to lose interest about 3/4 way through.
If you want HUNDREDS of pages of minutia on being a Chinese courtesan (read: high dollar prostitute) in the early 20th century...then Amy Tan's new novel, "The Valley of Amazement" is for you.If you like ROMANCE novels...then this may be the book for you; I don't know what you call a "Bodice Ripper" for a culture that doesn't wear bodices...a "Robe Ripper" maybe?If you liked the how-to dating book called "The Rules"...then you might enjoy the section on how to be a courtesan.
then this is NOT the Amy Tan novel for you.
I thought of the book as it went along as the Black Beauty  of courtesan books.
Remember how Black Beauty just went from one sad situation to the next one?
That is poor Violet, left behind, betrayed, pulling herself together yet again, with her faithful yet incredibly annoying sidekick Magic Gourd tagging along like a screeching peddler's cart.
This is not to say I didn't care about Violet; I most certainly did, and I wanted the best for her, plodding through the book to see what happens.
Es un libro largo, en el que conocemos muchísimo sobre la cultura china de final del XIX y principio del siglo XX, sobre todo te sumerge en el mundo de las cortesanas.
Y en este punto es en el que en algún momento me ha llegado a cansar, porque tanto rollo de un cortejo tras otro me agotaba.
Mientras lo leía no paraba de pensar en lo injusto que ha sido siempre todo para la mujer, en cualquier cultura.
Porque las mujeres protagonistas no tenían opciones, no les dejaban opciones para luchar, y siempre debían escoger el mal menor, para ellas.
The tale ends with Violet’s daughter, Flora, who may be the only person who can bring these wounded women back together.I’m fairly certain I had an “it’s not you, it’s me” moment with this book.
The Valley of Amazement, like all of Amy Tan’s books, can be summarized quite simply:
Now I read Geisha about 150 years ago, so it’s probably not nearly as good as I believed it to be at the time, but I have a feeling I'd still find it to be better than this one.
I read the other reviews and I don't know what I'm missing but this book was not 5 star worthy.
WARNING SPOILER ALERT IN THE NEXT TWO PARAGRAPHS: Amy Tan likes to address the mother daughter relationship and does so again in this book although I could not relate.
I would do ANYTHING to find my child even if I was told she was dead.As I read the book I couldn't help but feel like we were romanticizing prostitution and that good prostitutes find a way out and live happily ever after (think Pretty Woman).
I read the whole book and I learned a lot about courtesans and Shanghai.
I have enjoyed many of Amy Tan's book in the past, and although this one was good, it isn't great.I found that the book went into too much of the minute details, and became too long for the story.
Most books I don't mind how long the book is, but this book just seemed to drag on and that sometimes it almost felt like "filler" material.The story itself, however, is quite fascinating.
However, if you are the type of person who is easily bored or distracted away from a book, this wouldn't be the book for you.
The person who loves details and tangents off the main story would like this book.
This new book, not so much.
It's like instead of painting her usual fare she painted a pair of socks.
But as you're looking back and forth between her earlier works and this new one, you can't help but think: "Did it really have to be socks?" I'll have a hard time reviewing the plot without giving massive spoilers.
There we beautiful moments in the book.
These were balanced out by moments where I wanted to strangle a character for being stupid, or when I felt the plot was being stretched out or details were being glossed over.
The book balance itself out, good countering the bad.
I liked this book but I have to say that I do not think it was as good as some of her previous work.
Amy Tan did her research and it shows but her extensive research was not enough to make me love this book.
I did enjoy the back stories of Lucia and Magic Gourd the most.
I found the beginning of the book to be my favorite.
The middle of the book lagged for me.
I liked both Violet and her Mother, Lucia's story lines.
I also like Flora (Violet's daughter story line) But what I wanted more of was Magic Gourd.
Violet's story was also tragic.
I have read every Amy Tan book and loved them all.
I was so excited when this book came out.
It was difficult to read at times because it was one of those books where I wasn't in love with the characters and they made all the wrong decisions.
Also, it seemed like after each heartbreak the characters endured, they simply moved on with their lives.
I was disappointed in this book but I'm still glad that I read it.
I would never miss an Amy Tan book!
This is a difficult book to review because there were parts I really loved and (too many) parts that I really hated.
I thought that all of the details surrounding life as a courtesan were just unnecessary and entirely too graphic.
Overall I thought the book was too long, tedious and boring in places and in need of quite a bit of editing.But I also loved the detail about life in Shanghai and Chinese culture and food and customs.
