https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/250408.How_I_Wrote_Certain_of_My_Books
(Maybe widely is the wrong word, because he's fairly obscure, but you know what I mean.) He is also considered to be kind of insane, one of those turn-of-the-century decadents (or something like that), who was born wealthy and never had to work or do anything, who devoted himself tirelessly to his craft (at the expense of his health and society), who was unappreciated (and often mocked) in his lifetime, and who was posthumously determined to be madly brilliant.
This was actually the perfect overview book, it turns out, because it's kind of like a Roussel sampler, with a huge long intro / bio, and then selections from all of his works.
Anyone who claims to give a hoot about language, erudition, the Oulipo, stylistic pyrotechnics, imaginative excess or works by authors who deserve to be lifted high from the lowly position of a footnote should be ashamed of themselves if they haven't yet read Raymond Roussel. I am calling you out.
Basically a very lunatic who self-published is novels for instance "Impressions of Africa" that is so wonderfully nutty it of course failed in the comercial literary market of its time (1920's).
No, what he did was adopted a huge Broadway budget theater presentation or adaption of his novel.
Did that fail?
Of course!
But ironically Roussel had no interest in the avant-garde, only established literary success - and that never happened.So here we have an odd little book on his writing techniques as well as an early version of a graphic novel.
Really this is more of a primer on Roussel containing mostly excerpts (generally first chapters) from various works. This however, is by no means a negative critique, as it was exactly what I was looking for in that sense. Fascinating, and a must for fans of Surrealist literature, or Oulipo. Both of these movements championed and employed his pioneering techniques.
Much like Fernando Pessoa, the most captivating thing about Raymond Roussel is his tragic biography, much of which is discussed, here and there, in this collection.
Otherwise, he is an extremely unique writer, his methods of generating content from nothing, avoiding reality wholesale, are fascinating but tedious--an incredibly slow writer, a pointalist.There are some lovely passages, but I think he is a writer best read in the original French; he is too tricky, too French for English.
Much of the homonymical play is lost, here having to be explained and over explained again.There are crystals, royal magic, savage ceremonies, lockets, carvings, clothing, lists.
Visual description is tops.I don't like where he ends up politically; it's boyish.
Until I finally, resolutely abandoned Roussel's methods, I was unable to write so much as a thank you card without great difficulty. Now the hard part is mailing the card.
But I like puns.
This man does not exist. One of these days I will prove that he is an oulipian constraint.
The madman explicates his madness. Somehow drives the riddle of his mind even deeper into darkness.The text which gives the title to this volume is only about a quarter (or less) of the book. The rest are excerpts of some of his major works (Impressions of Africa, Locus Solus, etc.) and a few related minor works (Instructions for 59 Drawings and Documents to Serve as an Outline, for instance).
Just read the books in question.
Curiosa obrita de Roussel cuyo prólogo de Foucault es más extenso que el propio texto prologado. El escritor francés explica algunos de sus procedimientos de asociación de palabras, sonidos e ideas con los que compuso sus obras. Uno se pregunta si realmente Roussel es traducible al español y parece que más bien no. Lo mejor del libro es el informe psicológico final que describe los estados de éxtasis que sufrió el escritor en su juventud mientras escribía su primera obra y la depresión posterior que sobrevino. Está claro que Roussel era un excéntrico bastante singular.
Excellent prose poet with remarkable narrative strategies that enlarge the practice, and point to the future through both language, and his compulsive imaginative narrative.
