https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2438254.Love_on_the_Dole
My grandmother, I was told was absolutely furious.
The child had died because of her poor circumstances, and my grandmothers anger was that the child never wore clothes such as these when she was alive.
And this novel, although reads as fiction is obviously based on truth.
Poverty such as described in the novel existed and sadly still exists.I could not give the novel 5* as it ended a little to on a higher note for the main characters.
The author, say like Orwell in 1984, wasn't brave enough to take his realism to a depressing end.
A must read.
Published in 1933, 'Love on the Dole' became a huge influence on the British public's view of unemployment and social deprivation, and even prompted an investigation by Parliament, leading to reforms.
After that, only a few lucky ones get jobs, the rest face life on the dole.
This meant that quite often, daughters would end up supporting entire families - and in reality, her money was not enough to live on.Despite the rife poverty and the feeling of ‘doom and gloom’ there is plenty of humour amongst the characters too, which is reflected in the story and prevents it from being entirely depressing - and things don’t turn out too bad for the Hardcastle family in the end.
This was another book set close to home.
This one in set in Salford, during the 1930's.
Now as much as I think that should be the other way around it is a good comparison.This tells the story of Harry Hardcastle and his sister Sally.
They live in 'Hanky Park' one if Salford's industrial slums.
Greys, damp and fog.Harry has 'ideas above his station' and is not too good at thinking an 'opportunity' through.
Big industry isn't painted very well here.
This is definitely a book worth reading but not when you're feeling a little low anyway.
Love On The Dole's dialogue is written in a Northern vernacular & it took me a while to adjust.
This book was published in 1933 and there is a wealth of great period detail but it is the overriding impression of grinding, unremitting poverty that is most powerful.
The book's main strength is as a social document of a dreadful, pre-welfare state world, and a reminder of how we must preserve this hard-won social safety net.
By the way, Love on the Dole, was Walter Greenwood's first novel and has never been out of print since.
The authenticity of his own experience imbues this book.
These hired men may have become engaged, got "caught" by pregnancy, or other means into marrying and setting up a household--which they cannot support on their pay and they can no longer get the "tips" for running errands as when they were teenagers.This book is heartbreaking and even more so since the 1930's do not seem so far from the 1990's and early 2000 in factory towns.We know that in the latter 20th century, people in the USA went into and out of poverty.
Greenwood gets into the minds of the main characters struggling to understand the endemic poverty of Hanky Park, how they are exploited as apprentices, and then dumped on the scrap heap when they become expensive qualified workers, and how the 'boss' system works to favour the few and the people it wants to support - not what you know but who you know.
So, not an easy read in terms of politics and the comparison to today's class system, but also the book is written in dialect.
The colloquial languaged used by Walter Greenwood adds to the atmosphere of desperation and oppression which permeates throughout this incredible novel.
The hopelessness of life and lack of future resonates only too well with the current economic climate, and the characters leap from the page as if people you could have, or might have, met.
The book concentrates on the experiences of two children of the Hardcastle family, and the different experiences gender gives to such utter degradation and appalling poverty, the advantages education might give but doesn't always allow, and the entrapment of those at the lowest end of the social scale.
I loved this... a wonderfully vivid account of working class life in Salford between the wars. With all the social history of Orwell's 'Road to Wigan Pier' and the reality of Tressell's 'Ragged Trousered Philanthropists' but with a valuable insight, without excessively heavy political influences, of how life must have been living through true austerity and exploitation. Add to this a strong narrative structure, some beautiful descriptive writing on par with Steinbeck and a cast of characters you truly care about and you have a book that leaves you feeling a better person for having read it.
A very good novel which also doubles as a sociological portrayal of the misery of poor people in the late 1920s/early 1930s.Several points of view allow the reader to explore this world of poverty from different angles. The fact that all the dialogues are also written in the dialect the characters speak make the writing vivid as you almost hear them speaking.I really enjoyed this novel despite it breaking my heart a bit!
A great book of 1930s Salford the neighbouring City to Manchester. It shows how hard the life was in Salford and the Hankinson Park area of Salford when the crash of the late 20s came and how disposable life was for the underclass.It is very much about love, loss and hope for the future, based on real events.Great read try it
Hard to get over just how much impact this novel had back in the day. Before TV, before the Internet, before the kitchen-sink-dramas turned into tropes, there was this book. It brought the North to the South with the force of a tidal wave. Fresh, unvarnished and alive.
Love on the Dole (1933) might be the last depressing, worthy, important account of the toll and misery of working class poverty I read.
(11)Hanky Park has emerged from the industrial revolution, the modern upheaval of everything driven by capitalist industry and the transformation of stately homes and country fields into factories and ugly homes for the workers they need to work in them.
(65)Then there is this passage, which describes the mix of industry, housing and government offices that marked poor urban areas, reduces its residents to animals, and then more or less compares them to the animals heading in great bewilderment to the slaughterhouse.An erstwhile reformatory school for erring boys, an ugly, barrack-like building, serves as one of the Two Cities' labour exchanges.
Mr Hardcastle, a miner, Mrs Hardcastle a housewife and their children Harry and Sally along with their neighbours represent a working-class economy which was always fragile and was further damaged during the 1930's as a consequences of the Great Depression.The novel focuses mainly on Harry Hardcastle who having left school at 14 initially works at a pawnbroker’s, a job which he hates because he does not regard it as 'manly' before getting taken on as an indentured apprentice engineer at a local factory, Marlowe's.
Review will be up on the blog later today: www.thebritishstoryteller.wordpress.comKeep your eyes peeled.Xxx
The novel has a significant place in British history, because it quickly became, and has remained, the novel to turn to to show the conditions of British working-class life in the thirties and the terrible impact of the Depression on the lives of individuals as well as whole towns and cities.
A.J.P. Taylor refers to the novel in these terms in his widely-read 1965 book English History 1914-1945: ‘Unemployment became … a way of life, commemorated in Love on the Dole by Walter Greenwood, one of the few genuinely “proletarian” novels written in English’ (Penguin edition, p.436).
That was the function of doors and walls; they were there to keep out those who hadn't any money."The boredom and depression of the men who had been made redundant and replaced by younger men was painfully captured in one scene where, for want of anything better to do, the unemployed men watched the new Liverpool-Manchester road being built and other men working - a reminder of what they did not have [work] and were unlikely to get anytime soon.
So painfully true.Until I read this book, I didn't know what a tupp'ny leanover was.
Read it.
Life for these working-class families is a depressing grind, with no hope of improvement and no way out.
Greenwood attempts (and achieves) working-class authenticity by having his characters speak as they would have at the time.
However, the way Greenwood gets into the nitty-gritty of the everyday existence of these downtrodden people really brings them to life and drags you along with them.
Love on the Dole isn't a long book, but neither is it a quick read, but persevere to the end and you'll realise how cleverly Greenwood has summed life on the poverty line in the 1930s up.
the words used today would go something like this SOCIAL & POLITCALLY SENSATIVE cause alarm as some publication are doing today and ignorant people are trying to use them for their warped fantasies  it is vibrant in the choice of words , engaging on every page of simple charters and there struggle in the pit holes of industrial strife, with the embers of political change on the horizon the dvd which stars Clifford evens as the love interest to Deborah Kerr's first film role is an enjoyable film (clips can be found on you tube....)when was it was published ???
This book is certainly radical in its portrayal of unemployment and working class poverty.
It is hardbreaking to read abour Harry Hardcastle's perpetual hope that things will go all right, that he will find a job, that he will manage on the dole.
This hope is both frustrating for the reader, because it is so far removed from reality, and uplifting in its perpetually positive outlook.
While the book as a whole couldn't be called feminist, the ending that Greenwood writes for Sally Hardcastle is still a pleasant surprise and one that seems to go straight against morality norms of the time.
It's summed up on the back as a pretty good novel but, a very important piece of social history.
Like reading English Journey, it is a tragic peek into these stolen lives.
It makes me angry to think lives could have been so disregarded.
The work these people did in making Britain prosperous should be forgotten when times get rough.
Ingratitude.
Callous ingratitude.
Fat bosses skimming off the cream and everybody else learning to do as they're bloody well told.It isn't a brilliant novel but it is a brilliant book.
Along with The Ragged Trousered Philanthropists, this should be required reading.
Caring socialism may be out of fashion.
Don't know why it has taken me so long to getting around to reading this book as it has been on my "to read" list for years.Well eventually did pick it up and read it and glad that I did. Excellent book .. a very gritty and realistic description of working class life in North West England during the late 20's and early 30's.Very well written, good story and strong characters .. Recommended !!
Think this has been done better by other writers in particularly Tressel, reading the dialogue was interesting but it reminded me of my grandparents.
This was a great read. The author exposed the era, the cycle of poverty and its effects on working class families so well.
You get an intimate understanding of the central family and its members, and of a group of women who meet regularly and natter.At first, this book appears to be a Coming of Age type.
Harry is quickly learning about the trials of adulthood and his musings are at times depressing.
Later, the joys of love, the persuit of a political voice, the pressure of social conformity and the maddening search for money override the opening theme.
The phonetic spelling which conveys the strong Mancunian accent can be both funny and challenging.Overall, the book recreates the atmosphere of past times very well and ambitiously frollicks between many themes.
This is a great book- right up my street.
Set in a poverty stricken area of Manchester during the Great Depression, following the lives of a family who live in a neighbourhood overshadowed by a big engineering works.
It follows the lives of a brother and sister from teenage to adulthood, presenting a world where people work 12 hour days in milks and factories yet barely have enough money to survive, who live in crowded slums, pawn their best clothes every week , and generally have a shitty existence which gets worse as the work dries up.
A re-read from my Sociology A Level Days, this novel, about love, loss and hope, written in 1933 is a shocking record of the lives of the poorest members of society. It is just as relevant today , in the present political climate. An extremely well written and atmospheric piece of work, this will break your heart and shock you in equal amounts.
This book brings to life what life is like being unemployed in a poor community. Not too much has changed since it was written. It might not suit readers unfamiliar with Manchester dialect. The dialect can slow the story down a little.
An excellent and moving account of the depression, being on the dole, unable to find any kind of work at all however skilled
v on the nose. probs read better at the time.
fuck that
