https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/398522.The_Big_Show
When the end comes, there is relief rather than joy: in fact Clostermann and his pilots resent the revellers enjoying the victory.I must have read this book about twenty times over the years; this new expanded edition adds usefully to the first, and ensures that this classic will remain so for some considerable time to come.
And then the next day Clostermann himself, bravely risked a belly-landing of his own to preserve another of the squadron's precious Tempests to fly and fight another day.The single most moving page of personal-history war memoirs that I've ever read is the final page of Clostermann's book, where, after participating in the final, massive fly-over of London to celebrate V-E Day, he gently set down his Hawker Tempest 'Le Grand Charles' (named after Charles De Gaule) "like a cut flower, on the grass..."; and then after walking out to check on him, his crew-chief turned and walked away without a word when he saw Clostermann's shoulders shaking as he sat in the cockpit of Le Grand Charles, weeping that their last flight together was over - along with - The Big Show.On a personal note, my first copy of "The Big Show" I found abandoned in the desk of my 8th Grade Math class, and years later my best friend in college saw it on my bookshelf and said, "Hey, I had a copy of that book and I lost it in Mr. Gadd's Math class, way back in Middle School." And I said, "No kidding!
Kniha samotná patří mezi leteckými memoáry (nejen) z druhé světové války k naprostým vrcholům. Interpretace Jiřího Dvořáka jí ale posouvá ještě minimálně o jednu úroveň vzhůru. Jednoznačně stojí za poslech či přečtení.
Mon exemplaire, en édition originale 1948, relu plusieurs fois, tombe malheureusement en lambeaux tellement je l'ai lu et relu, au point que l'objet fait maintenant figure de relique!Clostermann a une plume intense, décrivant de manière haletante son épopée à travers la guerre aérienne en Europe de l'ouest.
Sans être un auteur génial, le rythme de son écriture est captivant.
Il semble que l'édition 
soit enrichie de commentaires supplémentaires de l'auteur au sujet de son expérience d'après-guerre.
Je ne peux que très chaudement recommander ce livre à tous ceux qui veulent vivre un peu de cette guerre des airs.
He spent much of his time attacking German fighter bases, flying through massive flak barrages and then battling dozens or even hundreds of German fighters that dived on the survivors out of the clouds.
Despite flying the best Allied fighter plane of the war, the Tempest, he frequently lost half his fellow pilots in a single sortie, and they flew up to four a day.
The courage he and his fellow RAF pilots displayed is unimaginable, despite the terror he admits to when facing flak, flying 50 feet from the ground at 500mph.
Clostermann's account of a suicidal mission his squadron of Tempests was sent on in the closing months of the war in Europe exceeds the speeder attack on the snow walkers in the beginning of Empire Strikes Back in terms of sheer visual awesomeness.
His squadron bursts from dense cloud cover to find itself over an airfield packed with German transports (including Arado 232s) about to carry personnel to Norway to escape the Allied advance, seaplanes trying to take off, and tons of 20mm and 37mm flak batteries.
The rest of his squadron gets tangled up with 40+ German fighters providing cover for the transports and he dives down in a solo strafing run on the airfield.
Possibly the best book I've read about the air war in WW2, up there with the best like "First Light"
Apasionante historia de uno de los mejores pilotos aliados en la Segunda Guerra Mundial. El autor llevaba registró en un diario de su vida al servicio de la RAF por lo que hace un repaso exhaustivo de sus misiones, victorias, derrotas y pérdidas.
Best and most thoughtful fighter pilot memoir I have ever read!
Simple and raw, it keeps you on the edge...but also sad and emotional.
Povinna cetba pro kazdeho kdo miluje vse co lita. Uzasne popisne a zaroven napinave.
After many missions towards the end of the war he wrote this description of what it was like to be a fighter pilot fighting to free France after they had liberated Paris: "We of the Free French Air Forces, to whom the Armee de l"Air owed everything, especially honour, we who rushed into the holocaust one after the other, as happy as kids all the same-we, who were proud to start all over again, to mock the odds against us, wangling extra tours of ops, fagged out, dead beat, nerves in tatters, lungs burnt out with oxygen-we always got the thick end of the stick.
'Le Grand Cirque', Pierre Clostermann's second world war pilot diary is a gutwrenching account of a free French pilot serving in the RAF, flying for his life against heavily defended ground targets & the crème of the Luftwaffe over western Europe.
The final chapters, especially the entry concerning the tragedy at the 12 May 1945 victory fly-past at Bremerhaven, are among the most poignant recollections from a second world war pilot that I have read.
Many armchair historians knock this book as innacurate, but Clostermann's account was collated from his flight diary, and as such I believe is an honest recollection from a tired & shell-shocked young man, recorded in the stress of battle without the benefit of post-war hindsight & data.
The Big Show is a gripping account of a young Frenchman's Second World War experiences as an RAF fighter pilot.
The author, who died earlier this century, was still in his twenties when the war ended.
Clostermann racked up an impressive number of 'kills' but it should be remembered that he survived to the end while many of his colleagues had been killed.
The lift expectancy of a pilot from any side was very short.There is nothing gung ho about The Big Show, just a straightfoward account of a brave young man's life between 1942 and 1945 when he played his part in helping the Allies to win the war.David Lowther.

Exciting, amusing and terrifying by turns. This is a great personal memoir. Written at the time, he makes a number of mistakes due to censorship denying him the knowledge of what was really going on, but this makes it all the more interesting. The most interesting bit is towards the end when he goes back to France and is effectively cold-shouldered. He was an embarrassment. While he had been risking his life and seeing his friends killed, they had been sitting on their backsides knuckling under to the Germans. Fascinating read, pacily written.
Amazing memoir of a young Frenchman who flew with the RAF during WWII. Most of the writing is directly from journals he kept at the time. I found it terribly interesting and also devastating.Born in Brazil to French parents, Pierre Clostermann was attending CalTech when WWII broke out. He graduated early and was in England by early 1941 (still age 19). He flew over 400 missions and was one of few to last out the war.I found it a shatteringly vivid read.He's pretty down on the Americans who fought in Europe, though.
Nach "Das Boot" war es interessant mal einen Einblick in den Luftkrieg zu bekommen. Hier in Form eines Missionstagebuch von einem der besten Kampfpiloten aus den zweiten Weltkrieg. Sehr informativ und absolut wahnsinnig, was die Flieger damals leisten mussten. Sprachlich leider nicht ansatzweise so aufregend wie "Das Boot". Aber ein Muss für jeden Fan der Fliegerei.
It's a really interesting book. Especially the early (and the last one) descriptions of flying were awesome and delivered the joy of flight.The examples of how the americans related to the civilians wasn't really a surprise to me but still managed to shock and even sadden me. That's quite unusual nowadays :PAll in all: a pretty amazing book.
A dramatic and acutely-observed account of the experiences of a fighter pilot in the second half of World War II. Pierre had an infectious passion for flying, for people, and for life and conveys all these throughout his books. Pierre also happened to be my great-uncle, which makes this book all the more poignant.
This is the best story I have read about the air war over England and Europe. Clostermann was a true war hero. One that we in the US have never hear of; although, he was credited with the most kills of all WWII pilots.
The first edition was one of my favourite books in the school library, a great tale of daring do. I read the expanded second edition as an adult, it's still a great tale but now exposes the reader to the remorseless attrition that characterised air warfare during WW2.
You can almost feel the dry mouth sensation of then pilot when he describes the combat and dog fight scenes. Vivid as rarely this kind of real history is written. For aviation buffs is highly recommended.
One of the few books on french fliers. I reccomend this to everyone. His exploits were legendary. We'll miss you Pierre.
Simply the best description of the aerial combat in WW2. if you want to know what it felt like to serve on the front line of the RAF during the 2nd world war, you cannot beat this book
A fighter pilot's memoir of his 432 sorties over Germany during WWII. An incredible story of heroism and sadness.
Another perspective on flying duing WWII. These people were amazing, facing death every day and carrying on, despite losing their peers nearly every mission.
I first read this book in the 70's and I've re-read is several times. If your interest about World War Two history from a fighter pilot view, read this book !
I read its Hebrew translation.
