https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/281821.Mathematics_for_the_Nonmathematician
Kline doesn’t simply move from arithmetic to geometry to algebra to trigonometry, but instead situates every subject within a specific historical period and practical problem.
Every chapter comes with biographical sketches of the major thinkers involved, as well as some practical problem that the mathematical theory would solve.Following this procedure, Kline manages to take the most abstract of all abstract subjects, and to make it exquisitely human.
We learn how sinusoidal motion allows us to quantify time, and how the Renaissance painters invented projective geometry in their attempt to create realistic perspective.In sum, Kline shows mathematics for what it is: a tremendously exciting intellectual endeavor—one that has expanded our knowledge of the universe immeasurably.
Other reviewers have correctly mentioned Kline's unfair views on history.
Throughout the book it was clear that Kline considers mathematics merely a mental construction.
Although I don't find it plausible, but it's acceptable that a mathematician have such approach towards ontological issue since (at least as far as I understand) the topic is very well open.
His inaccuracy and unfairness on history is evident even if reader knows nothing of mathematics' history but the flaw on philosophic issue is very well hidden!Beyond these flaws, it's really a good book for someone who has been away from mathematics after high school or college.

Someone asked me to compile a list of the 10 most influential books I had ever read. This ranked near the top. I read it for the first time in my early twenties and it (among other things) began the process of turning my life around after half a decade of stupid choices.Stated quickly: There is more to mathematics than the memorization of arithmetic and the mechanical transformations of algebra. They are to real math what pronunciation and grammar are to rhetoric, composition, and poetry (That is: critical prerequisites, but beside the point.)
This book isn't just about mathematics. It's about history, science, philosophy, the arts, and astronomy. One of my best reads ever. Reread many times.
I bought it, and within minutes of having purchased it, I found I couldn't stop reading it.I walked the entire way home from the bookstore (never mind I had driven to get there), reading this book the whole way home.
There is no question that the book is densely packed with a good deal of math (my paperback copy has around 550 pages of it), but the writing style is clear and non-technical, and the graphs and figures are very helpful and informative.As I write this review, I'm thinking it may just be time for another read through.
This is a wonderful work, Kline's explanation of very abstract concepts in a very clear way makes it well worth reading.
His anticipation of questions that might arise when encountering a new subject in Mathematics is always on target.
Who came up with this concept, why is it important, how does it relate to other fields, how does it relate to the real world?Kline walk as perfect line between just enough complexity and details about a subject to keep the reader engaged, while adding in a concrete example just at the right time.
My math skills are underdeveloped.
Kline hasbrief biographies of the major players behind the ideas, where the ideas came from, where they led, and different aspects of the whys and wherefores.It's a math book that is also a history of math.It is a very accessible book, Kline presents the math clearly and neatly, with plenty of practice problems to reinforce the principles (answers are in the back of the book, thankfully!).If you are looking to brush up on rusty math skills, or have a strange yearning to get a quick overview of math history, this book is a great choice.
This book simplifies complex mathematical topics. This is precisely what a good math teacher will do for their students. This book gives an overview regarding where some of the math which has been studied comes from. It also explores subjects ranging from basic math to Calculus and gives problems and solutions in a simple, easy to understand, practical way.
So you really want to feel stupid? Read this and have all the memories of 8th grade geometry come back to you. Why is it that I can remember every detail of Josh Engels' hair, but I can't remember how to do a proof? The mind reels.
Starting my business school pre-work. I'm enjoying so far that this provides a history of mathemtics and is written for a liberal arts major.
I've been reading this book on and off for years. This books contains things that I have never been exposed to, and it contains things which I, sadly, did not retain from any of my schooling.
Interesting insight into the history of math.
A good, if dated (and very euro-centric) history of mathematics. Can be read relatively easily without knowing too much mathematics in advance -- by a late high-school or college level reader.
Wish I had read this in grade school. It was *that* easy to understand...
One of the most important books of my life (so far)
Too often, people are introduced to mathematics via dry technical books with a positivist focus on numerical operations.
If our education system did a better job telling the (hi)story of math, we'd have a society more equipped and enthusiastic for reason, problem solving, and critical thinking.
Like Bertrand Russell's eminently readable History of Western Philosophy, Kline shows the human side of his subject, recounting the mathematical problems societies have struggled with over the centuries and the ingenious ways these problems have been solved.
The book never gets bogged down in technicalities, though for the non-mathematician, the math at times gets complicated very fast.
This book is well written, and clearly well-intentioned towards a public not coming from a mathematical background, however, I did not find it very intuitive for a beginner of math studies such as me. I did not read all the chapters and will get back to it in a later moment when more ready to tackle it.
Skip.
He would, in the beginning, question the veracity of philosophy and other speculative endeavors but he ends with a deeper understanding of math, one in which math itself is understood as merely relations on relations, not actually explanations of any sort.One should also question the extent to which mathematics really represents the physical world.
We have become so accustomed to the analysis of the physical world in terms of space, time, form, mass and the like, that we tend to overlook the fact that these concepts represent just some properties and narrow ones at that.
This is a re-release of the textbook originally titled Mathematics for Liberal Arts.
The text offers a high level overview of the most important branches of mathematics, while discussing its historical development and its tight relationship with empirical science.It is unfortunate that the title of the book has been changed, since the target audience is less clear now.
The book probably succeeds admirably at delivering a captivating account of mathematics to a reader completely, or at least largely, unfamiliar with the topic - and I am going to rate it highly for that.
This book was pretty good.
It covers the history of mathematics and how it is made manifest in the liberal arts.
It has some problems in it that you can do, hence my calling it a Textbook.
The problems aren't really serious or tough, and since it was written in the 1960s or something, it still has trigonometric tables, but not logarithms.
Maybe because they figured you could get the answer yourself.In any case, the math wasn't hard, and the history was interesting, but I had already read a book on the History of Mathematics so it wasn't really new to me.
I'm still reading this one so I'll withhold judgment for now. I can say that, thusfar, Kline goes *way* to far with claims of math's primacy. It's almost as if he claims math subsumes reason. It's quite off-putting to the liberal arts student: I bought this book precisely because I hate math and want to find a reason to like it. That the author shows ignorance of my course of study while trying to make his more appealing to the math-ignorant is just silly. Hopefully this wayward ship gets turned around.
I love how this book provides an interesting historical foundation and then includes examples of the mathematical discoveries just described. Mathematics can be a confusing subject, and I would argue that understanding the historical development of mathematics is just as important as the ability to solve an equation without context, connecting points or application. Kline helps to make math more interesting, as it should be.
Really interesting book. Loved learning so much about the history of mathematics and how it applies to all disciplines. Can't say I did all the exercises, but I found the book was nevertheless a good review of basic concepts and also a great introduction to concepts I have not yet had the chance to learn.
This is a book that every mathematician should read. It gives excellent perspective on how and why mathematics developed the way it did. More interestingly, one can infer from this excellent read why mathematics is taught the way it is.
Very good book about the history and development of mathematics. I think people math-illiterate will find this book building their love of this much-hated subject and for the math-lovers gaining a deeper respect and admiration for the universal language.
Phew.... That was a slog!
