https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1024465.Whistle_for_Willie
I love the colors in this books.
The backgrounds of pink bricks are so pretty.
Amazing colors that jump off the page to this day.
It's like Jan Brett, you see a Ezra Jack Keats page of art and you know who it is immediately without knowing the book.
It's distinct.Peter is so lucky.
I can't whistle and I have tried my whole life.
My father has a beautiful whistle.
Peter is trying to whistle to get the attention of a Dachshund.
He practices and practices until he can finally whistle.
Willie comes to him and Peter is so happy.The kids enjoyed this book.
A little boy wishes he could whistle, and after many attempts is eventually able to. His dog and parents are suitably impressed.This simple story will probably resonate most with smaller children who are sometimes frustrated by the process of acquiring the skills of older siblings or friends.
This now classic storybook has always been a favorite of mine.
The boy in the book, Peter, has a huge imagination and his parents support him in that, such as when he pretends to be his father and his mother tells him she thinks Peter was out with the dog and perhaps he could find him there.
I like that the dog is a daschund yet no one makes fun of that.
I love that the family is black, and that's irrelevant to the plot; they're just another family.The illustrations are simplistic but they are somehow collages, I think, and they fit the story perfectly.
This book is comical, and everyone would enjoy the story of a young boy, named Willie, who tries and tries again to whistle.
He tried to whistle while wearing his dad's hat,and that didn't happen.
Willie continues to do more tricks and tries again to whistle and nothing happened.
CREATIVE EXPERIENCE: Using a book like "Whistle for Willie", will help in exercising gross and fine motor skills that young children ages 3 to 5 years may need help defining.
So, through the use of music and movement could I help children start practicing and mastering these difficult gross & fine motor skills.
Before reading this book I looked at the title and thought this book was going to be about a young boy who lost his dog.
As I opened the book to the title page there was the dog alone walking the street.
The pictures looked as if they were drawn by a 6th grader.
The text in this book was not the main focus of this story, because they were placed in the corners while the pictures bled the whole page.
The second in his saga on "Peter," Ezra Jack Keats' sequel to The Snowy Day finds his protagonist a little older, but still as appealing as before.
Peter is trying to learn how to whistle so that he can call his dog to him, the titular Willie.
Of course, when I originally read this I did not own a dog at all.
One of the things to observe here is the changing of the art-style.
As Keats released more books of his fictional Brooklyn neighborhood the art changes and becomes more "rounder." I am guessing that if you read his work in order (which I never did) you can more clearly observe it.
1- I enjoyed reading this book because is about a little boy that does not give up until he learns to whistle.
2- I believe after reading this book to children, they are going to want to try new things they probably gave up before.
They are going to try to catch their own shadows.
While reading this book I will stop and demonstrate how I whistle.
At the end of the story, I will ask them if they want to try to learn to whistle like the boy did.
I adore Ezra Jack Keats. I love his illustration style (collage), I think his sense of composition is flawless, and the stories are great--they're stories without being preachy about something. They're stories about being a kid, from a kid's point of view. They show without telling. I love them. And this one is sweet. About the persistence that children can have about certain things.
This book is a classic for a reason. Deceptively simple text and pictures perfectly and delightfully represent the way a young child's (Peter, from SNOWY DAY) mind works.
I read this book and it is about the little boy, Peter would like to whistle to call his dog Willie but try very hard but couldn't figure out how to do it.
I will add this book to my shelf.Learning Experience: Auditory prop: I will discuss whistling is an auditory prop and how one can make sound with mouth and teach children how to whistle by pursing their lips into a tiny O shape, leaving a small opening for air, then by placing the tip of their tongue behind the bottom teeth or against the inside bottom gums and then gently expel air through the mouth.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading "Whistle for Willie", Peter is one determined little boy when it came to wanting to learn how to whistle for his dog.
The illustrations in the book reminds me of a collage, very colorful and abstract, but shows the persistance that Peter is going through to learn how to whistle.
We can have a discussion about what type of dog Willie is,which is a Dachshund, characteristics of this type of breed, and continue on about different breeds of dogs.
We can graph the differences/similiarities of dogs, and also ask the children if they have a dog at home and what breed their dog is.
Nice book about a little (black) boy who wants to learn to whistle, and, predictably, eventually does.It's always nice to have picture books that feature black kids that take place in the US and that don't make "being black" the focus of the story, or else talk all about some "issue".
The truth is that there aren't enough books that fit that criteria, and sometimes I think it's nice for my nieces to be able to see books about kids who act and look like them, y'know?
Clearly, this book was written in a less paranoid (if not actually any safer) time.

Yolanda Mason's Review!I liked this book, it had good illustrations and a good storyline. Upon the time when this book was written the family was in a good place (mother,father,boy.) I believe there was a stereotype of blacks being able to whistle. The boy was trying to imitate his father,that should never end, the boy's mom played along. The children should respond with enthusiasm, I would emphasize it's alright to have a goal of something you would want to achieve-this is an inspiring story.
Have you ever really, really wanted to do something?
How did you feel when you were finally able to do it?Encouragement.
Don't be hard on yourself if at first you are unable to meet your goals.
Try, try again!
For a student who is struggling with a goal.
Development, somethings take time.
did you start talking as soon as you were born?
does your little brother/sister drive the car?
can you ride a bike?
some things take time and that's ok!
When Peter was finally able to whistle he felt...
what do you think he felt?connecting the students to their own emotions.
The storyline of “Whistle For Willie” is delightful. It shows persistence and that one should not give up when they can’t do something right away. Children would easily follow along. The colorful illustrations are equally enjoyable.To extend this book you could take the children out for a nature walk and ask them to explore the ground for a long, thick piece of grass. After finding one, show them how to use it in their hands to make a whistle sound.
This story is about a little boy named Peter who really wants to whistle to catch his dogs attention. He tries several times but he keeps blowing out air, no whistle. He even tries on his dads hat and pretends to be a grown up to try to whistle but no whistle. While he is out playing with his shadow, he sees his dog Willie and he tries to whistle and you never guess what happens, he whistles.
Peter wants so badly to be able to whistle for his dog, Willie, like the boy he watches on the street, but he just can't do it. He keeps practicing, though, and one day...he does it! He whistles! What child can't identify with Peter's desire to whistle?Ezra Jack Keats is an American icon of children's literature, and Whistle for Willie is a classic.
Beautiful Illustrations, Engaging & Sweet! We Loved It!
http://pussreboots.pair.com/blog/2015...
I adore the illustrations of Ezra Jack Keats --
Most people know Peter from The Snowy Day. Here is the story of him and his journey to learn to whistle for his dog, Willie. A cute story of learning something new and the joy of sharing it with others.
Ezra Jack Keats has recently became one of my favorite children's book authors.
"Whistle for Willie" is one of my favorites of his.
I love the comical aspects of this story.
When reading this book aloud I would emphasize those comical parts such as him hiding under a box to try and trick his dog, as well as him pretending to be his father.
Many kids at a preschool age do not know how to whistle so this could be a great learning experience on trying to whistle.
I also love the warm colors used in the illustrations.
The warm colors bring a sense of liveliness to the story without being overwhelming.
This book would teach children that sometimes skills do not always come easily and take more time to learn. The pictures are colorful and look like they were designed with paper pieces. Overall it is a fun book to teach the important concepts of patience and practicing skills.
Nice book, but somehow it didn't grab us the way that snowy day did.
This guy gets kids.
a. Summary: A little boy named Peter had a dog named Willie and he wished he new how to whistle for his dog. He was determined to learn after another boy whistle and his dog and Willie ran straight to him with excitement. Peter wanted to surprise Willie by hiding in a carton and whistle at him, but he failed. Peter went home and pretended to be older like his father with his father’s hat on, he tried and tried yet still no whistle. He ran back outside playing with his own shadow and saw Willie c
a.	Summary: A little boy named Peter had a dog named Willie and he wished he new how to whistle for his dog.
He was determined to learn after another boy whistle and his dog and Willie ran straight to him with excitement.
He pretended to be older like his father with is hat but when he was running outside to surprise Willie, Peter was playing around with his shadow like a little kid still.
The orientation tells us how the forward movement of Willie to get his dogs attention.
My guess is the medium was various types of paints; watercolor, regular, sponge tactic, even colored pencil maybe.
This book is fantastic. First published in 1964, it is wonderfully illustrated by a master of his craft. Keats is so good that new children's illustrators get awards named after him. And the topic of this one is straight-up #blackboyjoy. Peter lives in the city and his playthings are a carton he finds on the street, his dad's hat, and his dog Willie, but he's never presented as poor. He spends the book trying to learn how to whistle and finally succeeds at the end, which is more than I've ever been able to do, so good job, Peter.
Peter does not give up, though, and his perseverance pays off – he can finally whistle.
Willie hears it and Peter is so happy, he must go home and show off to Mom and Dad. They are so proud of him and send him to the grocery store, and Peter goes, whistling all the way.Cultural/Multicultural evaluation: While this book has a main character, Peter, who is portrayed as African-American (as is his family), Whistle for Willie portrays a neighborhood where children play together regardless of race.
"Whistle for Willie" is about a young African boy who watches his neighbor, who is similar in age to him, whistle successfully and get his dog to run towards him.
By the end of the book, he (predictably) learns to whistle, the dog comes to him, and Peter's parents are proud.The illustrations in this book reflect that of a hot summer day.
Most illustrations feature warm colors such as red, orange, yellow, and pink, and the majority of the setting takes place outdoors in an urban area.
Page 14 features a street pole with the distinct colors of a British flag, which is interesting.
