https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/591572.Jem
4.5 stars. Another classic science fiction story by Pohl. Great world-building of a future Earth split into three factions and all vying for control of a new planet (aka JEM). Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1980)Nominee: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1980)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1980)
Although ostensibly a story about first contact and colonising another planet its real focus is on how the politically rival forces on earth rip each other apart and, exporting such tensions to the new colonisation expedition, how the colonisers nearly do the same to each other there as well.Initially I found it quite hard to get into and I wasn't particularly enjoying it for a long part of the story.
But this book made me think very hard and I am still unsure of how I feel about it.
Just because I found the truth of human(ity) too hard for me to comfortably read,does that mean it should be given a star less?
The same issues I found with this tale.So do I score it by my own feelings or by the fact that it is an excellently written and poignant story well worth reading if you can handle the truth.
When a sentient balloon is more interesting and evokes more sympathy than any of the people in the story, I think that's a problem.And my nit-picking inner scientist--a real asshole who's ruined many otherwise perfectly enjoyable Star Trek episodes--could not help but view with great incredulity the prospect of three very different sentient life forms all evolving on the same planet, and all arriving simultaneously at approximately the same level of societal sophistication, by some miraculous coincidence.
I still hold out some tiny shreds of hope that someday, we might prove Pohl wrong and successfully leave behind some of the worst aspects of our human nature, either here at home or, in the far future, somewhere else in the universe, and create some sort of utopian society.
I don't think it's at all likely, but I can hope.
Earth politics are a delicate game of co-operation without benevolence between the blocs, made by shadowy individuals with games of cloak and dagger.The novel opens with a scientist's desire to travel to another world.
As each bloc arrives, they each form a relationship to a species, and the delicate balance of the planet is upset as politics and colonial motives overtake the ecology of the planet.The original idea that mankind could go and colonise a new planet and give humanity a fresh start is explored here in a sobering light, with a good explanation of why humanity may not be ready yet and what may very well happen when we do.
The book was written in the 70s though, so maybe it was Pohl's opinion (+ exaggeration) of the treatment of women back then that caused this common characterization.I did like a bunch of stuff - the alien races were neat and the not-so-ideal planet was a cool concept that added a lot to the plot.
Overall, this book started out as a bathroom read*, but by about page 200 I took it out of the washroom and read it "for real".
If you like serious (as in not-campy) 70s sci-fi with a touch of Cold War nuclear trepidation, you'll like this novel.
I have probably read this three times now, first time was probably in 1979 or 1980.The first time I read it, I was 19 or 20 and I was initially very taken by the newly discovered world and its alien species.
I was looking for a complete exploration of the 3 species, their biology, culture and their world, but instead I was disappointed that the book focused so much on the humans, and political strife back on Earth.Reading it again now, I realize that it was really an allegorical criticism of the cold war, the nuclear arms race, the militarization of everything and the MAD ("Mutual Assured Destruction") ideas of the 60's and 70's.
What an odd book.This book was published in 1979, a time of oil shortages and famines, still very much at the height of the Cold War. So what feels pretty dated now was incredibly relevant then.Three world factions, locked in a power struggle, representing those who own the oil, those who can grow all the food, and then a somewhat pathetically portrayed communist bloc.
There are random and sudden plot twists that give the reader whiplash, and there's one point where I thought I somehow went into a fugue state and missed a whole chapter, because of a plot development that came completely out of nowhere.Still and all, this is worth reading if you can get a copy of it.
Rarely have I read such an apallingly negative view of humanity... that's not a bad thing, but nevertheless, I didn't love the book. It's probably the most interesting work by Pohl I've yet read, however.
But all I could remember about it was that it was a very grim story concerning colonization on another planet.
Pohl in this book sees Earth divided into three Power Blocs, each named for its main resource.
The third bloc is that of Fuel (the "Greasies") comprised of the Arab nations, Britain, and Venezuela, basically a more powerful OPEC.
The world is at peace as there is a balance maintained between the three blocs.
But the balance is failing as all 3 blocs send expeditions to the exo-planet Jem to colonize it.
This one is a slower starter than many of Pohl’s titles, in part because there’s a lot of info that is conveyed as background and contextual detail, particularly as regards the sociopolitical situation on Earth.
The perspective changes from chapter to chapter, so it takes a fair chunk of the book up front before the key characters and elements are in place.
As others have mentioned, many of the male characters come off as shallow and unlikeable.
The book was well regarded on release, and it’s easy to see why.
While some of the political background now seems dated, too much of it is starting to seem relevant again.
Hard to get into but rewarding as the story evolved.
The characterisation was over the top but I think that was to help enforce the morals of the story about the perils of rampant capitalism, colonialism and nationalism and the inability of humankind to just get along and share what's needed rather than trying to lord ownership over one another.
If read against when it was written during the height of the cold war it is an allegory but it does that by shouting instead of just telling its story and drawing you to your own conclusions.
At that point, I expected just a wholesale slaughter of the characters, and as the food bloc settlers on Jem are preparing to nuke the fuel bloc settlement, I prepared for the worse.Perhaps the biggest twist is the final chapter of the book, really more of an epilogue set over a century later, as everything closes out with unexpected hopefulness.
In some ways this novel feels like a common prequel to all these, laying out a course by which humanity can destroy itself back home but come together among the stars.And, in the end, isn't that outrageous?
Danny Dalehouse was the only likeable character and there was no real pushback to the aggressive winner-take-all mentality even though everyone supposedly wanted to create this utopia.
The whole concept was poorly executed leaving the story with no depth or complexity.And there are three intelligent species on Son of Klong, or Jem. The krinprits and balloonists live in these little social groups and basically never interact with social groups of their species.
The third species didn’t seem so far-fetched, but maybe that may have been more accidental that through any plan on Pohl’s part.Don’t get me wrong, I could perfectly believe the dystopian ending, but that was the only part of the whole novel that really felt believable to me.
Pohl's answer in this novel is that major historical events are not caused by single figures of great virtue or great evil, but rather by the small actions of everyday people due to impulse, greed, and misunderstanding, with a large dose of chance.
Pohl heaps scorn on the "brinkmanship" philosophy which argued that one can rely on one's opponents to recognize that your actions take things too close to the brink of disaster, and thus that their only reasonable response to to acquiesce to your demands - in the world of Jem, this approach is tried by all sides, and rapidly leads to disaster.
resources scarce planet earth views Son of Kung, the first Earth-like planet within reach of its tachyon technology inter-stellar travel.Only problem is that Son of Kung - re-christened 'Jem' after the first colonists from the Peoples Bloc are swept aside - already has three sentient races.
land-crabs and 'balloonist' gasbags are there to be recruited or exterminated in accordance with their potential utility to the rival Food and Fuel Blocs.The story's viability is driven by the characters of its main protagonists - the scientist Dalehouse,the militarist/politician Marge Menninger, and the linguist Ana Dimitrova - all from the US-led Food Bloc.
...Jem is not a light story, at times Pohl's commentary on human behaviour is almost cynical.
Although parts of the novel appear to be a bit over the top, the author gives the reader plenty to think about.
Pohl certainly does not spare us the darker side of human nature.
In Jem, base human emotions such as greed, aggression and mistrust are more important driving forces.
The way it confronts the reader with these less favourable aspects of human nature make Jem a very interesting read.
It is perhaps not quite as strong as Gateway but certainly more than worth reading.Full Random Comments review
Ciencia ficción escrita en los setenta. Todo es guerra fría, vietcong y crisis del petróleo. Con mucho esfuerzo pero a velocidades taquiónicas se está colonizando el planeta Jem, con aliens muy extraños pero mentalmente idénticos a los aborígenes terrestres y su relación con civilizaciones tecnológicamente superiores. No es muy profundo pero en su último quinto mejora bastante, (view spoiler)[la guerra fría se transforma en hecatombe nuclear apocalíptico. Los dirigentes son tan irracionales como cualquiera, la muerte y la destrucción campean. (hide spoiler)]
Fiction,Science Fiction,National Book Award
So when a new potentially habitable world is discovered, it is a mad scramble to reach it first to exploit the resources it may offer.
Pohl's exploration of the sentient races on Son of Kung is expertly delivered, giving away only what needs to be known at the time.
The reader is drawn into this world as Pohl invites us into his and develops empathy and engagement as much with the races as with the human elements.
I suspect Pohl was looking back on the cold war in his writing of Jem and potentially casting his mind forward to what may be in store for the human race going forward.
This movie has from it's writing a clear sense of late 1970's fear and anticipation of what society will arise from the political governmental behemoths moving through the world.
So, we have a SF novel that has a few interesting pieces of actual fiction and sceince, and a piece on the movements of modern contemporary society as feared from a view of a prot0-computer neo-corporatist pre-world wide web position.
It's of it's time, very competantly created, and does show a sense of wishing to teach people how not to be inhuman while being very human yourself.
The Earth is divided among three factions, in a prolonged cold war, until a new habitable planet is discovered. The fragile balance falls apart on the homeplanet, while on Jem the native species are exploited, resources are harvested and the cold war politics are replicated.The characters are not particularly interesting (maybe except for the cynical Russian pilot), the story is rather long and is mediocre at best - while I really enjoyed Gateway and disliked the Quantum Cats, Jem is somewhere between the two in terms of quality.
second read - 1 June 1994 - *** I was less impressed on this re-read, while in my late 30s. It is a first contact story story on a colony world.first read - 2 January 1981 - **** I read this while in grad school, as part of my intention to read all hugo and nebula award novels, as it was nominated for both. I was very impressed.
Most of the characters in this story spend way too much time being sexist and not enough time avoiding nuclear war or marveling at the first contact with other sentient beings. It's somehow pretty good in spite of itself. Like, several negative stars for the reams of pointless sexism, and 5 stars for the plot, the aliens, and the ladies (Marge and Ana).
Very dark. Strange ending almost seems an afterthought instead of a wrap-up of the original story line. Maybe it's just my mood. Pohl's commentary of exasperation with the tendencies of humans to self-destruct.
Mildly interesting. FTL travel seems unlikely in the setting of the book.
Brought down by spurts of really uneeded narrative.
A compelling and depressingly accurate (probably) view of humanity's pettiness and exploitation of anything and everything. It starts slow but the last third of the book was gripping.
‘The discovery of another habitable world might spell salvation to the three bitterly compelling power blocs of the resource-starved 21st century; but when their representatives arrive on Jem, with its multiple intelligent species, they discover instead the perfect situation into which to export their rivalries.
Apart from occasional dining on each other’s children, the three races live together in peace.Once all three Blocs have camps ensconced, a war begins between them and its escalation drags in the unfortunate alien beings.Like several other really good SF novels, it holds up a mirror to Humanity as a whole and has a horrible ring of Truth to it.This could be an allegory of how more advanced cultures have invaded other countries and used their natives as fodder or tools of war.
Uno de los mayores méritos de la novela es la verosimilitud que logra a través de las explicaciones científicas que permiten hacer creíbles hechos que no eran posibles (o, por lo menos, que no fueron llevados a cabo) ni en 1978, su año de publicación, ni en la actualidad, como la colonización de un planeta muy lejano; esto suena muy Star Wars pero en realidad en la novela se representan muy bien conflictos de intereses económicos entre potencias, comportamientos mezquinos de algunos personajes para conseguir más poder del que ya tienen, etc.
