https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19161899-nothing-more-than-murder
John Wilmot, part-owner of a troubled theater, and his estranged wife hatch a scheme to fake her death for the insurance money.
The plan seems to go off without a hitch, but pressure mounts as the wolves come after John from every angle...This sojourny into Jim Thompson's cheerful world is much the same as some of the others.
A man hatches a plan and then comes apart as the pressure builds.
As the wheels come off the plan, you feel for Wilmot as he makes misstep after misstep and can't do anything to stop it.
Reminiscent of Agatha Christie and Alfred Hitchcock, Nothing More than Murder is a first-rate crime novel about how far two people can go to get what they want, even if it means disposing of a life with the help of an expert whose talents in the past weren't just in celluloid, but in murder.
Trouble is, it's a lousy offer.But still Joe believes he can manipulate and scheme his way around all these obstacles, so that he and Carol can come out ahead and be free to live their lives together .
We build up something of an understanding of Elizabeth (in large part thanks to the narrative's enfolding of layers of backstory), but Carol remains not much more than a cipher -- a cipher with mighty gazumbas, that being about as much of her personality as Joe seems to notice.
With his third novel, Jim Thompson arrives in the world of noir, though he has not yet discovered his distinctively creepy voice.
I wasn't sure what to make of Nothing More Than Murder's clumsy plotting as its chronology lurched artlessly around while its backstory came and went.
If this were a third-person narrative, I would diagnose an evolving writer feeling his way through a new style of writing, but the narrative is written in the first person, so perhaps this clumsiness is an intentional reflection on its narrator.
And perhaps, because this is Jim Thompson, I give him the benefit of the doubt.
I have read that if one wants to read the master of crime story writers, Jim Thompson is the guy.
Thompson puts the reader in the villain’s head, to suffer along with him as the crime is committed and then as he struggles to keep from being proven guilty.
The reader does not really root for the villain, and perhaps even assumes he will be found out.
Thompson does not try to explain the world the villain lives in, but just goes ahead assuming the reader is intelligent enough to follow, and the reader does.
The writer died in 1977.
Thompson's one of my favorites but this one didn't land for me. It lacks the action and suspense of his best work. There's also constant insider talk about the movie theater industry, which frequently went over my head. It still held my interest because of the excellent dialogue and the protagonist's sense of doom.
A peculiar book by the master of noir, his first big success.
A small-town movie house operator married to an older woman (who owns the theater) starts an affair with the younger woman his wife brings in as a housekeeper; the wife catches them in the act.
The book is full of the nuts and bolts of the movie business at the retail level, with chiseling distributors, thin profit margins, projectionists' union thuggery and more, all the things we were blissfully unaware of as we took in the Saturday matinee with two cartoons.
They don't get more hardboiled than this. Thompson's novel is breathtakingly plotted with some fantastic characterisation. The prose is razor-sharp and rattles along with the final few pages absolutely gripping. Small-town cinema owner Joe Wilmot racks up a number of quick decisions when making an insurance claim over his wife's death, but a loose word here or there threatens to destroy his house of cards. I won't say more as it might jeopardise the plot, but this is my favourite Thomson novel out of those that I've read and is essential reading.
Creepy small town larceny opera about a sleazy movie theatre owner trying to pull a double indemnity scam with the aid of his wife AND his cross-eyed mistress.
This was Jim Thompson's first venture into what loosely could be termed the noir format, and it shows the master not quite there, but definitely setting his ducks up in a row.
The book is awfully chatty with too much movie exhibitor shop talk that doesn't necessarily enhance the story, but Thompson nevertheless gets his creepy-cum-psycho vibe warmed up so he can set the stage for the real sickness that was to come.
Things get very involved, especially in Joe's business dealings with partners, film exchanges, and an insurance investigator.
What is interesting is that, at the time the novel was written (the late 1940s), all film was on nitrate stock, which was highly inflammable.
This is an interesting detail to remember when a nitrate fire and a dead body found in the ruins precipitates an investigation of Joe and brings out all the wolves.Not a bad novel, Nothing More Than Murder is more complicated than most of Jim Thompson's work, but is interesting for its unique subject matter.
Slow and steady...Jim Thompson's "Nothing More Than Murder" is a slow-moving cat and mouse game told by the despicable and offensive protagonist, Joe Wilmot.
Murder and insurance fraud are set against the detailed workings of a small town movie theater.
The reader is introduced to a great deal of information about the back business of the movie house, competition, and even details about the projection room, managing reels of film, and filling the seats.Joe Wilmot is not the only objectionable character.
The outcome is not particularly predictable, and glimpses inside Joe's mind are entertaining in a dark way.I have not read this author before.
You kill someone.
You plot it out with two accomplices, your wife and your lover.
You trust one of them—your lover—to handle the details smoothly.
You look forward to the insurance money the killing will bring you.
It will be your escape from a life that’s harried you for years.
The business is going downhill.
So is your marriage.
This is the way out.The murder is accomplished.
It went off according to plans.
But people are talking.
You’re worried.
No, you’re scared.
People ask you questions.
Business people conspire against you.
They know.
Your lover becomes clutching.
She’ll spoil everything.
A very fast read. Jim Thompson can do no wrong!
Not his best.
Three and a half, really. In his third novel, you can see Thompson coming into his own.
Thompson does indeed have a way with bluntly told, coldly murderous stories. I liked this one, set in the cut-throat world of small-town movie exhibitors.
The beginning was tough to readA lot of Cinema talk, but once you get passed all of that in the beginning the story gets pretty good.
Classic Thompson. Old school crime-noir at its finest.
Decent early novel, though not quite as good as his later work.
Snappy 1949 murder "book noir." A tortured protagonist, a love triangle, a small town, seedy film industry antics, etc. The twist at the end was not a big surprise.
On the surface, “Nothing More Than Murder” might appear to be yet another twist on James Cain’s “Double Indemnity.” Here, the husband (Joe Wilmot) has an affair with Carol.
There’s a double indemnity insurance policy on the wife (Elizabeth), who is seemingly murdered in a bizarre film editing accident.
But, this is a Jim Thompson book and the basic idea of the three-sided romance is twisted in quite a different way.
This is a Jim Thompson novel and it is a world where seemingly everyone is greedy, dirty, underhanded, and conniving.
Kind of like when I worked for movie theaters except the murder part.
Thompson's first noir novel and I really enjoyed the unfolding of the insurance scam and then the complete undoing of Joe Wilmot as his enemies start putting the pinch on him from every angle.
Thompson cleverly keeps the details of the scam from us readers early on, but does it in a way that creates a lot of tension: Joe and his wife Elizabeth talk about what they are doing in the quite realistic way that people do who know what the subject is and don't need to mention every detail.
Not so good was the way Thompson drifted into Wilmot's back story throughout the last two thirds of the novel.

Cool stuff and even though this is very early Thompson (his first "proper" crime genre novel), it is put together masterfully.
Snappy dialogues, superb characterization of the main protagonist (I would dare say that others are neglected intentionally), great storytelling with some flashbacks thrown in and just enough psychological stuff to keep it interesting even though the plotting is not very strong.
It simply works, everything clicks as it should.Maybe a bit too light and naive for my taste (I saw that ending twist coming way too soon) but it didn't really matter.
Enjoyed it a lot.More here (review includes spoilers!):http://a60books.blogspot.ie/2015/07/n...
Joe Wilmot è un piccolo uomo d'affari che gestisce, insieme alla moglie Elizabeth, l'unico cinema della cittadina in cui vive. Un giorno la donna lo vede baciare Carol, la loro giovane cameriera. Elizabeth accetta di togliersi di mezzo in cambio di 25.000 dollari. I tre, per reperire i soldi, decidono di assassinare una sconosciuta per farla poi passare per Elizabeth e riscuotere l'assicurazione...Il romanzo di Thompson (del 1948) è un inno alla disperazione. La cittadina in cui è ambientato è imbevuta di falsità e violenze, coperte solo da un velo di ipocrisia, crudamente squarciato dallo scrittore...

Con el ya conocido estilo directo y contundente de Thompson, Sólo un asesinato es la muestra que ya desde sus inicios tenía claro por donde quería llevar sus novelas, cuál era su manera de escribir y contar las cosas. Esta novela es la primera de género negro que escribió y la que marcó un punto de inflexión en como orientar su carrera. Aunque aún le quedaban innumerables dificultades que superar en su vida, Thompson llego a vender 750.000 ejemplares de Sólo un asesinato en la siguiente década desde su publicación, todo un logro al que aferrarse los siguientes años.https://viajealrededordeunamesa.wordp...
An early work from Thompson that sees the author still finding his way a bit.
I takes awhile for the ball to get rolling here, but it does, it's quite effective.
A double indemnity scam goes awry, because of course it does, and one man tries his best to stay afloat as that noose slowly, slowly tightens around his neck.Much of the mid-century movie house shop talk does not age well.
It's not a fault of the writing per se; it would be like reading about the intricacies of the computer industry in, say, the 1970s.
There's a lot of flashbacks going on here and some feel out of place and disrupt the rhythm of the story.
Early Thompson, sub- proto- The Killer Inside Me. Having read nine of the man's novels in quick succession now, I can't help but feel that most of his plots are very, very similar. This one (his earliest crime novel) suffers from very little action on stage and a lot of tedious detail about the film industry circa 1950. He would do much better very soon after this, but Nothing More Than Murder is nothing more than a worthy misfire.
