https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/188086.Stories
Katherine Mansfield is where Jane Austen meets Emily Bronte.Of the stories in the current collection, one common theme may be seen to be pervasive - the difficulty for a woman in finding fulfillment.
Mansfield has captured this atmosphere beautifully in a sentence in the latter story:There is no twilight in our New Zealand days, but a curious half-hour when everything appears grotesque—it frightens—as though the savage spirit of the country walked abroad and sneered at what it saw.It is this half-light which illuminates this story – the light which is kept at bay in the brilliantly lit interiors of her other stories.
This has been one of my favorite books since I was a freshman in college... the stories are so lovely, so breathtaking. They remind me somewhat of Salinger, with its focus on a particular family in many of the tales. And like Woolf, there is a sense of melancholy and isolation, humanity as flawed and stumbling toward something, so clumsy and gangly, yet breathtakingly graceful in all it's failures.
Resenha aqui:http://lualimaverde.wordpress.com/201...
Having already read "The Baron" (3 stars), "The Modern Soul" (4 stars), "The little governess" (3 stars), "Prelude" (4 stars), "At the Bay" (5 stars), "Psychology" (5 stars), "Bliss" (5 stars), "Je ne parle pas francais" (4 stars), "Sun and moon" (3 stars), "The man without a temperament" (3 stars), "Revelations" (4 stars), "The Young Girl" (3 stars) and "" ( stars), I jumped straight to:The Tiredness of RosabelThe Woman at the StoreOle UnderwoodThis FlowerThe Doll’s House - school is where the
Having already read "The Baron" (3 stars), "The Modern Soul" (4 stars), "The little governess" (3 st
love this, from "The Daughters of the Late Colonel": 'Josephine had had a moment of absolute terror at the cemetery, while the coffin was lowered, to think that she and Constantia had done this thing without asking his permission.
"Buried.
You two girls had me buried!" She heard his stick thumping.
It sounded such an appallingly heartless thing to do.
Such a wicked advantage to take of a person because he happened to be helpless at the moment.
They were strangers; they couldn't be expected to understand that father was the very last person for such a thing to happen to.
She's not on the short list of outstanding female American short story writers for nothing.
I read some of these vignettes in H.S.
& college, and years later I thoroughly enjoyed becoming reacquainted with them, and will likely reread again.
At the conclusion of each story/vignette I find myself thinking, "wait...don't just end it here as I'm becoming enthralled with the characters, the setting, and the mood.
I want the rest of the story." Mansfield is concise, with every word skillfully chosen to convey a believable scenario.
Her sketches are wonderful and remind me of Willa Cather, but better.
And behind those smiles and those frowns lie all the experience of life, the fears and delights, the hopes and the dreams.”Katherine Mansfield wrote some of the best short stories I've read.
She's a master writer, and I'm practically outraged that I didn't come across her work when I was an English major -- she should be taught always, and passionately!Naturally, with a 28-story collection, not all of them hit me the same way.
And all the while I'm thinking, like that moth, or that butterfly, or whatever it is, "The shortness of life!
Had been meaning to read Mansfield for a long time but was finally curious enough after visiting her home in Wellington and watching the fascinating documentary into her short life. I'm not normally a fan of short stories but found these to be interesting snapshots of life and not at all as pointless as Austen, who leaves me cold.
Exquisite. Absolutely exquisite. A painful, beautiful pleasure to read. Mansfield is such an intuitive and loving author. I took about a year to finish it, but now I’m done with it I’m a little sad I didn’t take even longer.
Stories like "The Black Cap" and "The Garden Party" stayed in my mind long after I finished them because they strongly conveyed a sense of humanity without the need for characters to make grand speeches or even acknowledge their thoughts to themselves.
At the same time, Mansfield ably conveys the complex thoughts and feelings of characters of all ages and stations in life.
Her feelings toward those she considers lower than herself are most evident in these stories and I found myself wanting to skip over any story that included German characters for this reason.
However, I'd still recommend this collection to anyone who wants to explore more short stories or female writers.
Your lovely pear tree - pear tree - pear tree!I just remember the striking impression these stories made on me. I hugged this book to my chest and carried it around for months.I don't clearly recall most of the stories, just the mood of sadness, bitterness and yet, hope and mercy despite it, and beauty. Before Gatsby, this was MY green light.
In The Canary by Katherine Mansfield we have the theme of loneliness, sadness, letting go, hope and love.Taken from her The Doves’ Nest collection the story is narrated in the first person by an unnamed woman and after reading the story the reader realises that Mansfield may be exploring the theme of letting go.
The narrator feels so attached if not in love with the canary that she is unable to let him go despite his passing.
This may be important as if further suggests that the narrator is unable to let go of the canary.
The actors in this story are a woman and her pet Canary but as memories of the past here also appears the star, with which the main character had talked before the advent of the Canaries.The story begins after the Canary’s death.
Immersing in these memories, the woman thought back to her childhood where she had an imaginary friend too.
The conversations the girl with the star went on for some time but suddenly the canary appeared in the girl’s life and became her best friend.
In order to convince the reader that the heroine was alone throughout life, Katherine Mansfield first gives the signs of a person star, and then The Canary.
It’s the best thing I’ve read lately.
Now Katherine Mansfield is definitely the author I like.It is a touching sad story about a modest lonely young woman Missus who had the best friend, and that friend was a bird.
Nevertheless, you could empathize the heroine even if you never suffered such pain.Well, the text of the story is really short and easy to read because of the language, and the thing I’ve noticed is it is somehow pleasant for eyes (this is usually a significant characteristic of women’s texts, in my view).
The intro says how her characters are quintessential Englishmen and women who are pushed out of their comfort zones.
The other thing about these stories is that many of these characters are brought out their comfort zones by "shocking revelations" that inevitably lead to rather depressing consequences.
I think that if I were getting these stories in small doses, like the New Yorker, I'd probably appreciate them more.
And read something of Mansfield's life beforehand.
It gives many of her stories quite a bit more meaning when you think that that's probably an excellent description of part of her life with her husband.
I am not a huge fan of the Alper's biography, but one thing it really did do for me was to [GRAD SCHOOL ALERT] look at her work through, say, a Marxist lens.
If I was in grad school again (who knows; it could happen!) I might do work on Mansfield's characters and money and the hopeless immobility of women who can't earn their own damn keep, let alone travel through the world alone doing what they please.
Hnf. In other words, there are layers and layers to her work and it would be wrong to dismiss her as an old-fashioned writer.
This sampling of Mansfield's most representative works contains one of the more compelling stories I've yet yet, "The Woman at the Store," which is a young woman's account of a night she and two male traveling companions spend in the care of an aging woman and her young daughter, both of whom have been abandoned by their husband and corrupted by the desolate lives they lead alone on the prairie.
Surprisingly, too, this story originally appeared in one of Mansfield's early collections, which she considered to contain "apprentice" work.
We read four of Mansfield's stories for my British Modernism class.
A couple of them I really liked--"The Garden Party" for instance is an incredible short story, and "The Late Colonel's Daughters" was another really good one--but "Prelude" really threw me off.
I don't know what it was about the story, but I found it hard to follow what was going on and why.
Admittedly Mansfield is a High Modernist (though a minor one in the current canon configuration), so her work has the same kind of fractured or fragmented qualities as writers like Woolf (whom Mansfield influenced), Eliot, or Joyce, but Mansfield's writing is so much more accessible because it is not as densely allusive or purposefully obscure as texts like The Waste Land or Ulysses, or even Mrs. Dalloway.
Read "Prelude." My inspiration to read this story came while reading "Evan Shipman at the Lilas" in "A Moveable Feast." In the story, Hemingway says, "...
before we had ever come to Paris, I had been told Katherine Mansfield was a good short-story writer, even a great short story writer, but trying to read her after Chekov was like hearing the careful artificial tales of a young old-maid compared to those of an articulate and knowing physician who was a good and simple writer.
Mansfield was like near-bear.
But Chekov was not water except for clarity."I read "Prelude" to prove to myself that Hemingway was wrong and simply egotistical in his assessment.
Manfield’s stories usually grab your attention in the first few lines.
Her characters say things like: “One may as well rot here as anywhere else.” Or: “When I am my mother’s age, I shall be content to sit in the sun and shell peas into a basin.”Many are stories of the marriage relationship which reflect the author’s own fear of abandonment and betrayal, her jealousies, and her guilt about being an invalid.
She died of TB at age 34.I will want to read anything she wrote but a few of these stories are so esoteric that I cannot relate to them at all.
So far I have read Prelude, which was REALLY boring and has no character development...it also did not have likable characters. Not the makings of a great story. Hoping the next stories I read are better.update: I read At the Bay, Six Years After, The Man Without a Temperament, The Garden Party, Bliss, and Marriage a La Mode. My favorite was Bliss. I love what Mansfield does with nature. Even while the human interactions are imperfect, nature stands unmoved, a constant in the characters lives who so desperately wish for perfection.
Not every story is crafted to perfection, but stories such as "I Don't Speak French Well", and "The Garden Party" or even "Prelude" are all well executed and disturbing depictions of human cruelty among the frail and weak. Her style is reminiscent of peers such as DH Lawrence and Elizabeth Bowen, of that high Modernist style in which narratives are rather fragmented and distorted rather than straightforward. But the irony is that Ms. Mansfield chooses to be more straightforward in her narrative, yet the thought processes of her characters are indeed fragmented.
It took a year for me to get through this.
There's a few stories here which are gems.
I loved "A Modern Soul." Others were beyond a chore to get through.
I like to consider myself a real trooper when it comes to books.
Up for anything, like almost everything.
I die a little inside every time someone says a book bored them.
Oh how it did.Bottom line: If you are a huge fan of Gertrude Stein and modernist writing then this book is probably for you.
If that is not your most favorite cup of tea in the whole world then maybe skip this one.
What I take away from this collection of short stories, more than anything, is how some things never change. There’s a timelessness to the characters, themes, and situations that make you forget that the stories were written a hundred years ago (words like “brougham” and “petticoat” notwithstanding). Many of the stories have a “day in the life” type feel to them, emphasizing the small, fleeting moments in a person’s life.
I am in the process of reading this book and my feelings are so mixed, I've almost stopped at times. Some of the characters' voices are so annoying I nearly quit the book (and it's strange because I had read her before and didn't feel that way). I suppose that is Ms. Mansfield parodying but I'm not sure. I just read 'The Man without a Temperament' and liked it very much so I guess I'll continue but not expect to like every story.
An excellent sample of modernist writing. Through her short stories, Mansfield achieved to delve into the psyche of her characters and write stories that consider relationships, unspoken truths and the whirlwind that is the human mind and emotion, all with riveting endings that leave you pondering them after you've flipped the last page.
I discovered Mansfield teaching the second half of British Literature this spring and was immediately struck with: Where has this author been all my life?? Finely drawn portraits of the domestic scene, which though set in early 20th century New Zealand, primarily, are terrifically modern in their sensibility.
I love short stories and this is an excellent collection. I had never heard of Katherine Mansfield until I read a list of book recommendations by Gabriel Garcia Marquez. He's brilliant. Of course I'm going to read what he thought was great. Mansfield did not disappoint. I'm on to another book on the list--Manhattan Transfer.
One of the few book that I will always keep on my bookshelf to be read over and over. Katherine Mansfield is extremely under-rated. I find this collection of short stories endearing and charming. I loved these stories so much that I wanted to name my daughter Kezia (a character that Katherine wrote about to represent herself).
Katherine Mansfield is wonderful. Although she is often compared to Anton Chekhov, I find her works to be more stimulating and less obvious. She writes with sharp corners and then goes back with an eraser to dull the edges, leaving the reader to interpret the work-- the way good writing should!
