https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13538641-killing-kennedy
I don't think it's a stretch to think the Oswald had a few cohorts....forget Castro, the Mafia, the Cia, and other presidential enemies...Kennedy's assassination is completely glossed over in this book as if to say one man who failed at many things, who was disturbed, who was lost and lonely was able to put a plan together (all by himself without a mere whisper of it to anyone) to kill the president as he drove right by his job site.In the end all Oswald had to was wait for his victim to come to him.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، همانطور که از عنوانِ کتاب پیداست، موضوع آن در موردِ ترورِ 35امین رئیس جمهور ایالت متحدهٔ آمریکا <جان اف کندی> میباشدعنصرِ اصلی کتاب، موجودی بیمار و روانی به نامِ <لی ازوالد> است.. موجودی پست و عقده ای که جان اف کندی را به قتل رساندلی ازوالد، تکاور نیروی دریایی آمریکا بود، با آنکه هیچگونه سواد مطالعاتی نداشت، امّا در اوهام و توهماتش اینگونه تصور میکرد که یک مارکسیست است. از همین رو، به روسیه رفت تا به آنجا پناهنده شود.. امّا پس از مدتی با او همچون دستمالِ توالت برخورد
موجودی پست و عقده ای که جان اف کندی را به قتل رساند‎لی ازوالد، تکاور نیروی دریایی آمریکا بود، با آنکه هیچگونه سواد مطالعاتی نداشت، امّا در اوهام و توهماتش اینگونه تصور میکرد که یک مارکسیست است.
این موجودِ حرامی و بیمار، رئیس جمهور کندی را ترور کرد و پا به فرار گذاشت..
امّا همزمان در شهرِ فرت ورث، زمانی که قرار بود لی ازوالد را به گور بیاندازند، هیچ کس نبود تا تابوتِ این موجودِ نفرت انگیز و پست فطرت را به چاله بیاندازد و خاکش کند...
like so many Americans who were of age during the time of the Kennedy assassination exactly where I was, what I was doing and what was happening all around me.I remember........
(the latter is not descriptive as in Follett's Edge of Eternity)The actual data on the murder of the well-loved President Kennedy divulged nothing new that I can ascertain other than perhaps tidbits of dialogue that occurred inside the vehicle after the fatal shots.If you enjoy reading about presidential history though and the personal life of JFK, his wins and losses, his troubled health; and Jackie, her popularity with the public and her mythical American Camelot, this work of non-fiction is a fast, easy way to get the overall picture.
Written in a juvenile fashion, this book gave me nothing new. In fact, I knew more than the book was presenting. It begins with JFK's inauguration and goes until the assassination, and that section doesn't include anything about any of the conspiracy theories. Disappointed, because Killing Lincoln was so good.
The reputations of Lyndon Johnson, Gerald Ford, George Herbert Walker Bush, Richard Nixon would all be fatally tarnished by frank and honest discussion of what happened in Dallas on 11/22/63 and who helped to cover it (Ford, Nixon) and why.JFK assassination truth discredits the leadership at the highest levels of the Democratic & Republican party, the government, the CIA controlled media, the FBI, the CIA, the US military, every single newspaper in America and their editorial boards and every history and political science department of every major university.JFK assassination truth also discredits the NYT, Wash Post, WSJ, USA Today, LIFE, ABC News, CBS, NBC and CNN.
When an author can make history as readable and entertaining as a good novel, it has to be a good thing, and I would give the book five out of five stars.
But reading it made me go back and finish Stephen King’s 11/22/63, which is a novel about a man that goes back in time to assassinate Lee Harvey Oswald to prevent President Kennedy’s assassination.
I had started reading the book many months ago, but had given up, though not because it wasn’t good.
The thing that has always amazed me about King’s writing is his sense of place and time.
I read Killing Patton: The Strange Death of World War II's Most Audacious General and thought it a good and thought provoking book.
So let me say this, if you were born too late to actually remember the events recounted in this book it will be far more valuable than it will to those of us who remember them.
There may be a few times when some of Mr. O'Reilly's bias peaks through...but not often.So, if your knowledge of these events is skimpy then read this one.
It's a good complete account concerning the facts of the events.
I read his previous book, Killing Lincoln, a year or so ago and while it did not contain much in the way of new information as it claimed, the book was actually well written and held my interest.
In the introduction, Mr O'Reilly claims he will "cut through the fog and bring you the facts".
Facts, to Mr O'Reilly are whatever he chooses to believe, and the rest of the book is a fog machine.
This is totally irrelevant to "Killing Kennedy" unless Mr O'Reilly is trying to claim that good old JFK screwed himself to death!
The man is a bonafide douchecanoe but he can write compelling accounts of world events. This was really fascinating.
This book was fascinating in a weird tabloid sort of way.I was only 4 when JFK was elected, but at a young age I was happy to know that a Catholic like me was president of the United States. I knew that it was controversial that Kennedy was a Catholic; but I doubt that word was in my vocab at the time.This is how I have always pictured JFK: He even had children like me: Although people would probably hate him today because he was such a rich guy (wink wink), no one cared back then: As I grew old
What an idiot!All of the people surrounding JFK knew of his addiction to women, but they protected him, which is why there are so few photos like this one:
Take it for what it was worth.As this book is supposed to deal with the death of JFK and what lead to it, and whether or not Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone or with others, O'Reilly sets the scene with information that shows many people would have liked JFK out of the picture.
Were O'Reilly's name not on the cover, this would likely be lost in the dusty shelves and lists of nice books of little or no import in the world of literacy and the voluminous undistinguished mountain of writings about Kennedy.
Not a recommended book for anyone really wanting to know specifics, details, and in-depth investigation of the assassination.
btw, some self-proclaimed officianados have determined that O'Reilly's write fails to come to correct conclusions.
For now, I believe those conclusions, having read and watched "enough." So until there is a clarion call proclaiming a new "truth" that might vindicate the conspiracy theorists' ideas, I think they are well-meaning, wannabe CSIers.
Great non-fiction (that felt like a novel) about JFK and his assassination. There might not be a lot of "new" material, but it was a great refresher. Actually I did learn several things I didn't know and made me want to learn even more. My parents were teens/young adults when he was killed and could tell me exactly where they were when they heard the news. Highly recommend to anyone wanting an entertaining/short version on the details of the JFK murder.
Fascinating fact-based account of JFK's White House years highlighting the controversies leading up to his assassination. Picked up a few interesting details of the behind the scene lives of JFK and MLK, Jr.
O'Reilly's "Killing Kennedy" is a major disappointment for anyone seeking new theories or information on the assassination.
This book largely follows the inept findings of the Warren Commission despite O'Reilly claiming that he would "offer different scenarios for the reader to come to their own conclusions".
There is very little evidence revealed by the author other than his own views and opinions.
This is a constant theme throughout the book which lends it to more "fairly tales" than supported evidence.
Those seeking a more scholarly investigation of this case need to put this book back on the shelf.
The ascension, administration, and assassination of President Kennedy is truly a riveting topic, but this text is poorly written and, furthermore, written to such a low reading level that the grammatical errors and simplistic style are entirely distracting -- perhaps that is based on the audience to which O'Reilly wishes to appeal.
For example, "kids" should be "children" for heaven sake, unless you're writing to an elementary reading level, and the verb tense should be consistent and should NOT be present tense.
Sorry I'm compelled to read it for my book club.
The "facts" have been available for years, but to have it all at once and delivered well gave me a better understanding of world affairs, the Kennedys and other politicians as flawed people; an ego driven villain in Oswald and the complexities of threats to our safety and the stress put upon a leader such as our president during tough times.
Seems to me JFK's heart was into the role as leader and obstacles and challenges were many and serious.No matter what one thinks of the Kennedys, even my 10 y/o sensibilities knew it was wrong beyond wrong to kill him and this book helped me to put it into proper adult perspective once and for all.
Listening to this book in the audible format was a very emotional experience for me.
I was a teenager when Kennedy was assassinated in the 1960s were a very significant decade for me.
Listening to the story of Camelot was also very emotional for me because I am in the midst of what may be the end of my father's life.
My emotions from that experience our gushing out in tears as I listen to the end of the life of JFK.
There is a good deal of personal information about the life of the Kennedys in this book.
Very disappointing, exploitative book. Nothing new or enlightening on the murder of a sitting President. Robert Caro's book offers more on the assassination of President Kennedy then did O'Reilly. When all is said and done, Killing Kennedy was all about making a fast buck for O'Reilly. Skip it...you're missing nothing at all.
I give this book two stars because it was certainly entertaining.
However, it will never get a Pulitzer Prize for history.
That doesn't happen with this book.
My favorite was when he stated that Oswald beat his wife, but she was okay with that because she preferred being beaten to being ignored.
He also stated that Oswald admired Kennedy, but he shot him because his wife broke up with him.
This book does have some interesting pictures and maps, though, and it's a good reminder that bad history is still being pumped out.
I think the tour of the White House by the First Lady to be shown on television should be reenacted. That's a great idea!What a tragic time in our country's history. My heart broke for Jackie. What is amazing is that even though the author strayed from blaming Kennedy's death on any one conspiracy theory, his life still swarmed with conspiracies, so it's not a stretch to think.
This book had great insight into him and the way he thought all those years ago.My LOVE for Kennedy stems from seeing the famous quote from his inaugural address on the wall of the history room for my four high school years.
"Ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your country." I was also very lucky to go see his grave and Jackie's when I was a senior in high school.
Seeing his grave and the Eternal flame was what made me realize that history is being made every day even if we aren't ready for it.
5 Stars First off this book is really good.
I have never read any Bill O'Reilly books before.
I loved everything about this book.
I guess it is because it is a history book and I like to learn from these kind of books.
I loved the writing and all the information that Bill O'Reilly gives through out the story from the beginning to the end.
I would definitely read this book again.
I would recommend this book to anyone that likes to read any history books or just wants to learn more about JFK.
But, like most Americans I will never forget exactly where I was and what I was doing when I heard President Kennedy had been shot.
Others have complained that there is little or nothing new here, and that may well be true, but for those like me who have avoided the subject, the story is presented in a highly readable narrative that neither wallows in Kennedy's infidelity and failures nor puts him on a pedestal.
The personal stories and details make the assassination more than a historical event, more than an American nightmare, but a personal tragedy for all those involved.
The way O'Reilly switches back and forth from the glorious Kennedy to the pathetic Oswald with objectivity makes Killing Kennedy seem like as accurate an account as we who were not born at the time can hope to have - devoid of the hero-worship spin put on Kennedy by other so-called reporters who come off as little more than fans rather than as historians.
In this book, Kennedy was at once flawed and impressive - in other words, he was human.
I was already familiar with the facts surrounding Kennedy's horrendous murder, but I must say that I FELT it for the first time reading this book.
This book was a slice of history for me! I've always loved all things "Kennedy" but this was like a trip to places I've never been and events I never saw before. What a great book, so much knowledge by Mr. O'Reilly. I recommend it to history buffs or general JFK fans!
Having read most of what has been written about the assasination, including the complete Warren Report, this makes for an interesting read, very much a.la 'readers digest' format.
A Fascinating Snapshot at A Significant Period of HistoryI’ve been hearing about the O’Reilly “Killing” books for years but never read or heard one of these books until KILLING KENNEDY.
I listened to the audio book cover to cover and enjoyed it.The authors weave a fascinating story filled with historical facts about the last years of John Fitzgerald Kennedy (predominately) but also other people in the story like Jackie Kennedy or Lee Harvey Oswald or numerous others.
The detailed research and storytelling is fascinating and keeps listeners attention throughout the book.
I highly recommend KILLING KENNEDY and will be looking to listen to other books in this series.
The legacy of the Kennedy Assasination will live on long after most of us are dead, so, it's a bit ironic that people debate one simple fact.
In any event, reading this book really convinced me that this one little, unimportant, invisible, nonentity of a man killed our president all by himself.
No one would have picked this little nothing person to even be on their baseball team, let alone to assinate a president!What strikes me is how the book portrays the mood of the country and more importantly, the impact the event had on the remainder of the 1960's.
Probably one of the few boys who fell in love the musical Camelot, before diving into the many books and movies, and then even as a republican accepting JFK as a noble knight.As I said I'm a republican so you'd think I'd be excited to read a book by O'Reilly, ripping apart Kennedy.
There was no real light shed on the killing Kenedy part.
As I said I have given up on all theories and think Oswald was just a crazy person with desire to kill JFK.
It was a marriage of appearance in a lot of ways, but I feel that they actually came to love each other.
They sent us home from school early that day and my Mom was walking to meet me with tears flowing from her eyes and she tried to explain to me what happened, even though they told us at school.I was seven years old when Kennedy died, but I'm learning so much about his personal life, his family, his work, his habits and stuff that I've never heard.
Caroline lives a fairly private life, married and had three children.
