https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38820046-21-lessons-for-the-21st-century
Although most of us don’t need to lose too much sleep over bears these days, modern life does present plenty of other reasons for concern: terrorism, climate change, the rise of A.I., encroachments on our privacy, even the apparent decline of international cooperation.In his fascinating new book 21 Lessons for the 21st Century, the historian Yuval Noah Harari creates a useful framework for confronting these fears.
Keep this in mind the next time you start to doubt whether we can solve a global problem like climate change.
As it should.Here’s another worry that Harari deals with: In an increasingly complex world, how can any of us have enough information to make educated decisions?
You’re on your own for climate change and nuclear war, which apparently don’t rate high enough for “lessons”.Despite those three most important threats, the most common theme throughout the book is criticism of religion, mostly Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, though Buddhism and Hinduism come under attack as well.
(Because the state wants us to be, Mr. Harari.)In the chapter on war, he comes to the magical conclusion that we’ve pretty much done away with it.
This could get far worse'.However I'm sure that contributors to Goodreads will particularly enjoy the section on the importance of literature, especially for aficionados of SF :-“… it is equally important to communicate the latest scientific theories to the general public through popular-science books, and even through the skilful use of art and fiction.
We certainly need good science, but from a political perspective, a good science-fiction movie is worth far more than an article in Science or Nature.”.On the whole, the message Harari imparts is a positive one and he does offer some hope for the survival of our species.
"Change is the only constant.""I am free to create my own dharma."This book has been an interesting, fascinating, enlightening, liberating, scary and an exciting read!The psyche of Homo sapiens...21 Lessons for the 21st Century by Yuval Noah Harari is all about perspective on what's happening right now and clarity about the greatest challenges and important choices.
Human happiness depends less on objective conditions and more on our own expectations.These lessons don't exactly provide answers for the challenges, but are more focused on helping us think, research further and be prepared for the "change".
O livro pula bastante da discussão sobre super-humanos tocando o mundo do futuro, o que achei ótimo, já que é algo que ele discute bastante em Homo Deus.Em 2016, li o Networks of Outrage and Hope: Social Movements in the Internet Age, do Castells, que fala sobre como vários países estão passando por um movimento de descrédito da política, um misto de decepção com os políticos e desapontamento quando percebemos que as promessas não serão cumpridas.
Harari dá um contexto e uma perspectiva para isso, quando discute como estamos chegando em um ponto onde não há uma grande mensagem política que unifique as pessoas e a ansiedade que vem dessa falta de missão.
As always, masterful and exquisite non-fiction writing as we come to expect from Mr Harari. Delightful, wise and very perceptive. This book can be seen as an expansion and a companion to Homo Deus: A Brief History of Tomorrow. The attention of this volume is focused on the Present as opposed to Past or the Future. Some parts will make you feel inspired, others will sow a despair. But it is a relevant and useful book that will give you a plenty to chew on.Strongly recommended
One of Harari's key themes in Deus and this book is AI and what it will mean for humanity in the future.
I think this quote might be one of the most key from the book, and certainly a key theme of Harari's:"for every dollar and every minute we invest in improving artificial intelligence, it would be wise to invest a dollar and a minute in advancing human consciousness."He goes on to further explain that our whole economic system is causing us to head in this direction, and to - except for a small number of people who opt to prioritize differently - largely ignore how to improve ourselves.
Questions you cannot answer are usually far better for you than answers you cannot question." Has anyone ever asked you which author you would choose to read if you were stranded on a deserted island and could only have one author with you? I could not come up with any one writer until reading Yuval Harari. Now, I would without a doubt choose him. There might only be 3 books he's written so far, and though I've read all 3, I could spend years re-reading them and reflecting on all that is contai
The quote is one of my favourites in the book and that's why I opened my review with it.In Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind Mr Harari led us predominately through the history of mankind.
This book is more philosophical than the previous two, forcing us to really think about ourselves, our stories, our world, our future.
If we are to not only survive as a species but also to create a future that is good for all humankind, we must abandon our strict adherence to previous fictions, such as nationalism and religious myths.
I've read all of Harari's books and I really like him as a thinker and a writer.
It is an act of bold ambition and also hubris to write a history of the world, answer the meaning of life, and to propose a path toward the 22nd Century.
He certainly does not do all of that, but the act of trying is a lot of fun to read.
That's fine, but some of the predictions did seem to me to be pretty far fetched.
But if the book is going to be about lessons (plural) for a whole century, I would have liked to see some more lessons.
Morreram os agricultores nasceram os informáticos que lhes sucederam e é assim ao longo de milénios, e assim irá continuar.Segunda parte: “O Desafio Político” Lição 5 – Comunidade: Os seres humanos têm corposLição 6 – Civilização: Só existe uma civilização no mundoLição 7 – Nacionalismo: problemas globais precisam de soluções globaisLição 8 – Religião: Agora, é Deus que está ao serviço da NaçãoLição 9 – Imigração: Algumas culturas podem ser melhores que outrasConcordo em absoluto, Harari detém uma grande capacidade de análise, para além de um vasto conhecimento dos problemas que afectam o globo terrestre, os princípios nacionalistas, os regimes comunistas, o pavor que o ser humano ainda enfrenta sobre o desconhecido, apesar das inúmeras descobertas científicas que tentam explicar alguns fenómenos.
Yüzyıl için 21 Ders”, önceki kitabı Homo Deus’taki ivme kaybının azalıp, ilk kitabı Homo Sapiens’e yaklaştığı bir kitap olmuş.
Bu kitabı yine bilgi yüklü, yine yazarın sözünü esirgemeden düşüncelerini ve sentezlerini net olarak anlattığı bir kitap olmuş.
Eğer sosyalist veya Marksist bir dünya görüşündeyseniz kitabı beğenmeniz çok zor, beğeniden çok eleştiri ağır basacaktır.
Milliyetçi-ulusalcı bir kimlikle bakarsanız yine beğeniden çok eleştiri oklarını yönlendirisiniz.
Bu bölümlerde sanırım çeviri politikası gerekliliğinden dolayı verilen isimler (sanatçı, şarkı vb) Türkçe örnekler üzerinden verilmiş, bence çok sırıtıyor.
Keza sanırım Türkiye’deki mevcut yönetime yönelik eleştirileri elekten geçirilmiş, orijinali ile karşılaştırmakta yarar var.
Recensione: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iwj8C...
What can I say about this book that will do it justice? Nothing. 21 Lessons for the 21st Century is yet another seminal work by Yuval Noah Harari, which deals with the challenges facing us here and now. He tackles different topics from varying perspectives. Even if you do not agree with everything he says, one thing is for sure - he makes you think.Prepare to have your worldview expand if you read this book. It is a definite keeper.
Even more alarmingly, the richest hundred people together own more than the poorest 4 billion.This could get far worse.However I'm sure that contributors to Goodreads will particularly enjoy the section on the importance of literature, especially for aficionados of SF :-“… it is equally important to communicate the latest scientific theories to the general public through popular-science books, and even through the skilful use of art and fiction.
We certainly need good science, but from a political perspective, a good science-fiction movie is worth far more than an article in Science or Nature.”.On the whole, the message Harari imparts is a positive one and he does offer some hope for the survival of our species.
Neste sentido, recomendo vivamente a leitura a quem ainda não leu os anteriores dois livros, os restantes podem passar.Deixo alguns excertos que achei interessantes:“On 7 December 2017 a critical milestone was reached, not when a computer defeated a human at chess – that’s old news – but when Google’s AlphaZero program defeated the Stockfish 8 program.
A century after the expulsion of the Jews from England, Geoffrey Chaucer – the Father of English literature – included a blood libel modelled on the story of Hugh of Lincoln in the Canterbury Tales (‘The Prioress’s Tale’).
The author has a good sense of the forces that are shaping our world. The author really understands the current historical moment and the factors that people should pay attention to. From education to war and peace, to class warfare, to technological displacement, to climate change the author gives a good guide to the times we are living in. Good stuff.
Unlike the author's previous books, this one was clearly "written" at the request of publishers; a pure marketing move.This should have been obvious, if not from the painfully commercial title, then from the fact that the author would not have had the time to write anything of substance since Homo Deus.The book is a collection of essays, and it would have been more honest to market it as such.
The essays themselves vary in quality; some are fairly interesting and/or enjoyable, others so full of banalities that they would pass as generic blog posts on "the meaning of life" or "the fate of humanity".The most annoying thing was the attempt at faking cohesion by superficially connecting each chapter to the one after it.
Considering categories such as Work, Nationalism, War, and God, Hurari's primary point is that it's all fiction: Liberalism, Capitalism, Religion, National Borders; these are all simply stories that we tell ourselves and the biggest hurdle we are about to face is sleepwalking into a greater interface with “Big Data algorithms” and allowing them to shape our reality; allowing them to provide the new fictions by which we organise our thoughts about how the world works, enriching the few and enslaving the rest.
وبغض النظر عن جنسية المؤلف أو ثقافته فما يطرح من أفكار في كتابه يستوقف القاريء ويدعوه للتأمل في كثير من القضايا الفلسفية، التاريخية، العلمية، الدينية والسياسية.
ويحفل الكتاب بمعلومات غزيرة جدا تدفع القاريء لمعرفة تفاصيلها بصورة أكثر تعمقا.
يتألف الكتاب من خمسة فصول كل منها يتعلق بتحدي نواجهه في قرننا الحالي وهي تحدي التكنولوجيا، السياسة، الأمل واليأس، الحقيقة و المرونة.
للمؤلف كتب سابقة مشهورة وهي سابيانز و هومودياس أتطلع لقراءتهم في الفترة القادمة.
أبرز انتقاد أوجهه للكتاب أنه تعامل مع الأديان وانتقدها بالتركيز على نماذجها المتطرفة وتغافل عن التيار الذي يمارس الوسطية والاعتدال.
كما أنه لم يميز بين تعاليم الدين الأصيلة و انحراف التابعين لهذا الدين واستغلاله لتحقيق مطامع شخصية.
That said, having a book of Yuval Harari disjointedly riffing about the state of the world is about the most fascinating kind of read I could ask for.
His ideas about religion, technology, story-telling, identity, meditation, the future, politics, nationalism, what went wrong with humanity and what went right...
(And for an atheistic author who doesn't believe in identity and basically disproves all religions, this sure turned out to be a surprisingly spiritual book.) If only there was a way to make everyone in the world read Harari and have some real perspective about all that is going on.
(En azından ben bu duyguya kapılıyorum) Sanırım Harari'nin de kafası epeyce karışık.Kitabın Adalet bölümü en orijinal fikirlerin olduğu bölüm.
Adalet duygumuzun neden bulanık olduğuna Harari'nin getirdiği açıklamalar oldukça ilginç.Bilim Kurgu bölümü bence kitabın en sığ ve yanlış yorumlanmış bölümü.
Sanırım Harari bilim kurguyu çok hafife alıyor, ya da bilim kurgunun belli bir alt-türüne aşırı vurgu yaparak türü sıradanlaştırıyor.
Bilim kurgu edebiyatına çok hakim olmadığını düşünüyorum.Harari'nin genel yaklaşımında bir başka sorun, olay ve olguları tarihsel bağlamından kopartarak yorumlaması.
(Zaten goodreads oylamasında non-fiction alanında oyumu bu kitaba verdim) Benim favorim gene de Homo Deus.
Sanırım elim bir boşa çıktığında üç kitabını da (Sapiens, Homo Deus, 21YYi21D) yeniden okuyacağım.
І якщо деякі речі відбуватимуться непомітно (Гугл підсовуватиме лише _потрібні_ і _найкращі для нас_, на думку алгоритмів, видачі (це як контекстна реклама, тільки зі ще індивідуальнішим підходом), то деякі суттєво обмежуватимуть наш свідомий вибір (страхова і/або роботодавець, за результатами детальних біометричних даних, вимагатиме кинути курити).А штучний інтелект в інших його проявах може позбавити нас роботи.
Можна конспектувати, думати, обговорювати, надихатися і мотивувати себе до того, аби, врахувавши ці уроки від Харарі, будувати трішки ліпше майбутнє, ніж він ото малює :)Завдяки видавництву BookChef я стала однією з 30 осіб в Україні, які першими змогли прочитати цю книжку українською (бо офіційно в продаж вона надійде лише 10 вересня), і за це я справді вдячна!Раджу всім, хто хоче розуміти, які процеси відбуваються зараз із людством і що з того може вийти в майбутньому.
هراری در کتاب «انسان خردمند گذشتهٔ ما را بررسی کرد.در کتاب انسان خداگونه به آیندهٔ ما میپردازه اکنون یکی از خلاقترین اندیشمندان این سیاره به حال حاضر بازمیگردد تا عاجلترین موضوعات و معضلات امروزین را در کتاب 21 درس برای قرن بیست و یکم توضیح دهد.چگونه کامپیوترها و روباتها معنای انسان بودن را تغییر می دهند؟ چگونه با بیماری همه گیر اخبار جعلی برخورد کنیم؟ آیا ملت ها و ادیان هنوز هم بهم مرتبط هستند؟ ما باید به فرزندانمان چه چیزی آموزش بدهیم؟ کتاب 21 درس برای قرن بیست و یکم نوشته یووال نوح هراری، در

Yuval Noah Harari, author of 'Sapiens', which looked at the history of mankind and 'Homo Deus' which looked to the future, is back with '21 Lessons for the 21st Century' a book which very much explores present day issues.
I found each topic provided just the right amount of detail without overwhelming the reader, a fine balancing act if ever there was one!
Each chapter flows beautifully into the next, and alongside the various topics are lots of citations.
There is certainly a lot of thought-provoking material included in this book, and I can imagine it being of interest to a great many people.
If you’ve read Sapiens and Homo Deus (which I really enjoyed), you can skip. This is basically a collection of Harari’s opinions on a group of topics somewhat relevant to today, repackaged from his first two books, with all the same strengths and flaws: good storytelling about human history, human nature, the future; but also the signature flaw in his writing - very little distinction between ideas that have substantial evidence and those that are simply his opinions.
can't wait!
In 21 Lessons for 21 Century Yuval Noah Harrari touches upon some important issues of today's world by drawing upon the technological and societal changes with a hint of history.
Until I read this book, I did not realize how far we are from understanding and dealing with the changes we are going through in today's world.
I am glad Harrari did that for us.
All in all, I believe this book, along with Homo Sapiens and Deus should be read by everyone.
Harrari is one of the most influential intellectuals of our time.
Brainstorming the future.Superstar publishing phenomenon Yuval Noah Harari has racked up 12 million sales of his books, Sapiens and Homo Deus.
His relaxed style of writing makes for a highly readable book and I found myself highlighting a great many well-expressed thoughts: “When a thousand people believe some made-up story for one month – that’s fake news.
When a billion people believe it for a thousand years, that’s a religion.” “Most stories are held together by the weight of their roof rather than the strength of their foundations.” “Nations and religions are football clubs on steroids.” But his final lesson for the 21st century is a personal one: the positive power of meditation.
insan her iki uca dogru inanilmaz bir suratle ilerleyebilen anlasilmaz bir canli sinifi. Bilim ve teknoloji de son surat ilerlerken aptalliga dogru en az o suratte kosuyor. Cok daha fazla detay vermeyi dusunuyordum ama vazgectim. Kitap bundan uzun uzun bahsediyor zaten.
Instead, people need the ability to make sense of information, to tell the difference between what is important and what is unimportant, and above all to combine many bits of information into a broad picture of the world.’‘So what should we be teaching?
In order to keep up with the world of 2050, you will need not merely to invent new ideas and product - you will above all need to reinvent yourself again and again.’‘…in the 21st century, you can hardly afford stability.
To stay relevant - not just economically, but above all socially - you will need the ability to constantly learn and to reinvent yourself, certainly at a young age like fifty.’An incredibly interesting book and very readable.
