https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3153910-the-art-of-racing-in-the-rain
I didn't buy the book then because, as an animal lover, I am especially sensitive to certain subjects.
As a doggy mom, I am more sensitive and I can't bear to think about certain things, whether peaceful or otherwise.
Maybe it's because this is what I want to hear and what I want to think because I know my own boy will leave me some day, but I want to believe that all of Enzo's thoughts are real and that when it is time, they want you to let them go.
You know that guy who comes up to you when you’re having a bad day and says something like, “just think positive thoughts and good things will happen” as if it were really that simple?
No, what ruined it for me is the fact that the entire thing is horribly botched.First of all, when you are a writer and you choose to narrate your tale through the eyes and ears of man’s best friend, you need to adhere to your own limitations.
When you do that, you expose yourself as a fraud trying to push your own agenda onto the reader through your characters.
If you have yet to read this wonderful novel, do yourself a favor and do so. It's original and captivating, and I simply adored Enzo (the narrator ... who also happens to be a dog). It tells the story of a particular family, with twists and turns that keep the pages turning. It's a perfect read for a rainy afternoon or while laying in bed, the kind of novel that you'll remember long after you've finished.
But I think I mentioned that already.I liked this book so much that it made me want a dog.
And I don't even like dogs.Enzo, a terrier/lab mutt, believes in his next life he will be human.
There are times I felt like throwing the book I was so mad at Denny's in-laws, but (kind of embarrassing to admit here), Enzo kept me sane.
There is some mentioning of "mounting" (it's a dog's perspective, remember) and language.Several times throughout the book, Denny or Enzo say, "Your car goes where your eyes go." Enzo knew that applied to life as well.
VIDEO REVIEW: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-UFYm...Marvellous.There were some things, plot-wise, that felt a bit unnecessary (those damn grandparents) but other that that, I loved this! It never felt weird to be reading from the perspective of a dog, which was a huge surprise to me. Enzo sort of reminded me of Garfield in some ways, like how he had snarky little comments and criticisms that we, as readers, are privy to. It was super entertaining!This was an incredibly emotional story, but it never felt too heavy, which I appreciated. I look forward to checking out more of Garth Stein's books in the future!
I always want to like local authors (and artists of all stripes), but it isn't always possible.First, I don't think automobile racing is a good metaphor for life.
I think the personal automobile is the single most destructive concept we've conceived.
As I said, I'm biased.The reason I read this in the first place was the dog-as-narrator.
I'm really trying to find a good dog-as-narrator book.
The dog-as-narrator in Stein's book is gimmicky.
I kept asking, "Why is the dog telling this story?" I still have no satisfactory answer.The narrator was particularly unlikable to me due to his obsession with being reincarnated as a man.
This book is written from the perspective of a dog.D).Inside the book there are statements such as, "That which you maifest is before you." and "No race has ever been won in the first corner; many races have been lost there".E).
Starbucks is heavily promoting it.G).
This book is written from the perspective of a dog.H).The amount of paper being used to promote it should be illegal!I).
This book is written from the perspective of a dog.J).
This book is written from the perspective of a dog.Books about dogs should be writtenA).
Not promoted at Starbucks
That beginning - whew - nearly shorted out my kindle with the tears. If you're like me (avoiding sad books like the plague), you'll feel the urge to abandon this book after Chapter 1.  Don't do that.  There is an absolutely  beautiful story  that has to be told (and don't worry, the ending is not as sad as the beginning implies.) I’ve always felt almost human. I’ve always known that there’s something about me that’s different than other dogs.   Enzo belongs to Denny (and Eve and Zoe, but mostly
that has to be told (and don't worry, the ending is not as sad as the beginning implies.)
Pretend you are a dog like me and listen to other people rather than steal their stories.
This book is all about listening - what can be learned and gleaned if only people spent their lives as dogs do.
But how can Enzo help them when he's trapped in a dog's body?
This is one of those books that everyone should read once - it has such a solid story and that ending (oh that ending!) was just what I needed.
This is such a heartwarming and original story concept and I'm not sure I've ever read something so objectively sweet.
This is the story of Enzo, a philosopher dog with an obsession with opposable thumbs, racing, his family and his belief that when he dies he will be reincarnated as a man.
Stein's image of how a dog would view the world I found both unique and inventive while maintaining as much realism as one could expect when reading a dogs perspective.
Overall, if you love dogs or not I think anyone would enjoy this story.
It's original, entertaining and a loving story about familial bonds.
Daughter taken away -- check.And then of course fairy godFerrarifather -- check.
My next book will be about the mother of a little girl with leukemia as told by their cat.
Husband's mother sues for custody -- check.
Through it all the only comfort is the cat -- check.Child dies.
Mother discovers an ability to make yarn from cat's hair -- check!
Fairy godartgallerymother discovers cat hair sweaters on mother's do-it-yourself website online and gives her her own show -- check!
Doctor who invented the treatment falls in love with mother -- check!
Every new generation will be ‘gifted’ taking their turn reading this novel....NOBODY IS *Too OLD* or TOO INTELLECTUAL themselves to not be profoundly touched.......it’s PURE SATISFYING reading ....involving the reader wholeheartedly in thought, heart, spirit, and self-reflecting.
Enzo is no pansy......he watches Educational TV that *his human*, Denny leaves on for him when he’s away at work ( at an upscale auto dealership in Seattle) Denny is also a semi pro race car driver.
The ‘symbolism/ parallels’ between race car driving and LIFE are brilliant.
There are twists and turns with race car driving ......
It’s impossible not to love ENZO!!!!!!!5+++++ Stars!!!!!
THE ART OF RACING IN THE RAIN by GARTH STEIN is an inspirational, wonderful, and sad story that had me feeling so many different emotions while listening to this book.
Laughter...happiness...sadness....anger...and even a few tears.
That is good writing to make me feel so many different emotions while reading/listening to a book.It was such a touching and uplifting story about the life of Enzo the dog, which was told from his own perspective.
I found this story to be quite endearing, enjoyable, sad, and even funny with a few good twists and turns to keep me interested to the very end.
i boo hoo'ed quite a bit and then raced to the nearest borders to reread the parts of the story that moved me the most.
another reviewer asserted that racing is a metaphor for the lessons we are on this planet to learn.
this concurs with other authors who believe, in spirit form, we chart a path and body with "masters or guides" prior to life in this plane (see brian weiss, richard webster, and sylvia brown).
through Enzo, this author forced an examination of my sense of purpose...and i am better for having read it.
Ferrari F430 ★★★★★ An amazing book; one of the best I’ve read in over a decade. Some of you, who know me, are aware that I am still friends with my ex-husband; a relationship that spans over 32 years. What you may not know is that he is battling the Big “C” – cancer. Now, after five valiant years, he is debating whether to enter Hospice or not. Needless to say, the last thing I, a dog-lover and ex-ICU nurse, wanted to do was read a book where a wonderful canine, Enzo, on the eve of his death, re
Some of you, who know me, are aware that I am still friends with my ex-husband; a relationship that spans over 32 years.
Needless to say, the last thing I, a dog-lover and ex-ICU nurse, wanted to do was read a book where a wonderful canine, Enzo, on the eve of his death, recalls his lifespan with an owner who races cars.
An existence that includes the experience of losing a loved-one to cancer.But, my best friend in the world, Anita Who-Doesn’t-Have-Time-To-Recreational-Read-Because-She-Does-Tons-And-Tons-Of-Reading-At-Work, gently insisted I read this one.
And I’m glad she did because The Art of Racing in the Rain is so much more than a book about dying.
Tear jerker! I'm writing this and sobbing! What a beautiful work of art. Enzo the dog was such a life force to reckon with. I love him and he's just a made up character! All of these characters... Denny, Zoe, Enzo, Mike, Eve.. Such masterful people! It ended the way I expected but I so loved the very end. Such a perfect ending to the story :) read this!!!!! You will not be sorry you did! Such a magnificent story as told by a dog. Would love to see a movie based on this story.
Amazing.I just loved it.So sad.
And that includes my dog, who happens to be pretty hip.
It isn't so much that I wanted to find out what happened next in the plot; I wanted to find out what Enzo had to say and what happened to the characters.4.
I told you he was hip.What I didn't love:1.
Not always, but there were definitely times when I felt like the author was reaching.2.
The end felt a bit contrived.
I haven't decided yet whether I will read anything else by this author.
But all things considered, I loved this book.
I didn't think that much of the narration -- the conceit of a dog narrating the story.
Neither rang true.But somewhere, around three quarters of the way through, I really began to care.
And the emotional punches began to hit, until somewhere in the last fifty pages I found that I was tearing up that little bit (and I needed to blow my nose: gross, but true).It's still, honestly, a bit thin.
The central conceit, Enzo's narration, it really didn't work for me.
It's not something I'll reread, and I'm not sure I'd recommend it, but I'm glad I read through to the end.
This book was a gift from my father-in-law, who knows that I like to read and that I like dogs.
I plead guilty to anthropomorphizing my dog, but I still find it annoying when other people do it, and an entire book narrated by a philosophizing dog just doesn’t work for this story on many different, important levels.
If you have no idea what I am talking about and love that kind of music, you may like this book.
If you can’t help but notice bad writing and sentence fragments, this book will bother you.

But it is still in my thoughts, a really good sign.I think what held me was that the unique narrator of the book is a dog, Enzo.
Enzo, being the dog he is, applies these techniques to how to get through life's difficult conditions.The book is told from Enzo's perspective on the eve of his death.
Enzo desperately wants to be human.
He saw on a documentary about Mongolia that if dogs are ready after they die, they come back as humans.
Both great dogs, but not Enzo.
But this was for book club and I felt like I should give the whole book a shot; plus the audiobook was well performed and helped me get through most of it.
Unfortunately, this book was not for me.I think the idea of a dog narrator is novel and fun—and going into the book I was really excited to see how it was done and read from a unique perspective.
There was absolutely no logic behind the dog's perspective.
That's how I felt about this book and that's why it gets 1 star.
I know plenty of people who absolutely LOVE this book, so don't just take my word for it.
Cleverly and wonderfully narrated from first-canine-point-of-view, this is a story about the lifelong bond between a dog and his master.Enzo the dog is a wise soul and is always explaining his thought processes about things.
The way he views the world, sees humans, and interprets everyday events is quite comical.
you know, if I was a dog.”Enzo's human dad is a race car driver and lover of finely-crafted racing machines, especially Italian ones.
I looked up the meaning of the name "Enzo" and smiled when I saw that, in Italian, the name means 'Winner.'Extremely sweet, very creative book.
2015 Super Favorite!I went into this novel not knowing much about it really, only afraid I wouldn't be able to handle it if it was too sad (being the animal lover than I am) and had already started a great classic play I was eager to get into, but after reading two chapters of The Art of Racing in The Rain I knew it would be utterly impossible to put it down...and it was.This story is so much more than I thought it would be.
I actually feel like starting over and reading it again!
I saw this book going through everyone's feed a year or so back and naturally, my inner rebel came out and I refused to read it.
It came in at the end of last week and I finally read (listened) to the damned thing.I just finished one of the biggest crying jags a book has ever caused me.
I loved this dog, Enzo.
This is an excellent story about the love of a good dog and the heartbreaks of a close family.
I loved the wonderful narration.
I can't say enough good things about this beautiful, imaginative story.
It's about the love a dog has for its humans, the nature of life, and how - according to the dog - race car driving is a metaphor for all of life.
Enzo is there narrating the entire thing, giving his perspective of the situation and being there completely and utterly for a human in need.There is a heartbreaking scene when Enzo is hit by a car and Denny rushes him to the hospital.
And in the end, Enzo is reincarnated as a human - a boy who is a natural born race car driver named Enzo who is Denny's biggest fan.I loved this book!
It's the story - at it's core - of Denny and Enzo, man (race car driver among other things) and dog (hoping his father was a terrier among other things).
"You manifest what is before you" is one of the philosophical perspectives that the author uses to tie together dog and man, racing and life, and so many other relationships in the story.Intertwined stories of faith, family, failure, hope, and perseverance makes this a very special tale and one I am glad I stumbled upon.
He also has a 'hallucination' wherein Zoe's toy zebra comes to life and wrecks her room.
LOL 😏) Around the middle of the book, when Denny's racing career is getting serious traction, some really bad things happen.
And there's plenty of drama from this point on.Throughout Enzo's tale he recalls Denny's truisms about the philosophy of racing - axioms that can be applied to real life such as: keep your eye on where you're going, not where you are.
Enzo also recalls the most exciting ride of his life, when Denny secured him to the passenger seat of a race car and tore around the track at upwards of 125 mph.
It was the right decision because she was a senior dog with a serious illness, but no less gut-wrenching.Enzo's tale helped me believe that if Nikki could have talked, she would have told me it was okay.
She might have told me she loved me, our family, and would miss us, but she needed to rest peacefully.For any dog lovers, the book is worth reading.
My sense of guilt in making the decision to end Nikki's struggle eased and I believe like Enzo, she will return to life in human form and I'll bump into her someday.
The novel would be a fairly ordinary contemporary tale, except that it is written from the point of view of the main character's dog, a labrador retriever, terrier cross called Enzo.
The dog Enzo watches the television quite regularly in the story, car races being a particular favourite.
They are all observed by Enzo, with a view to what he, in his doggy role, can do to help the situation.The novel's weakest points are when Garth Stein places too much emphasis on telling his main story.
it."There are quite long parts of the novel where Enzo is philosophising, and using racing as a metaphor for life.
