https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/272264.The_Face_of_Deception
Good series! lovely storyline with a decent mystery,very suspenseful and it involves awesome characters that was also well written (paperback!)
This is the laziest book I think I've ever read.
I don't imagine a powerful man like Logan would give the reins of his hard work and devotion to Eve, who admits in the beginning to her disinterest in politics.
The dialogue is difficult to read because the author does not help to identify who is talking at once.
This book might be an okay read for someone who never reads and would like something simple and put-downable.
However, for a person like me, an avid reader who wants to be within the story, avoid this book.
So I thought it about time to pick up the first book and get started on knocking some of these out.SynopsisAn unidentified skull...A trail of terrifying secrets...And a woman whose talented hands could reveal the shocking truth...As a forensic sculptor, Eve Duncan helps identify the dead from their skulls.
You get to learn a lot about Eve Duncan in this first book.
Other than that, I really do enjoy her as a character and I look forward to how she grows throughout the series.I can recommend this book really to anyone who likes thrillers, cause this is a nice big thrill ride.
I thought Eve Duncan was the wrong character for this first book to focus on so I can't imagine where it goes from there.
It makes me want to vomit in a hat.We don't find out what happened to Eve's daughter and although I'm curious, I don't think I'm going on a 12 book saga to find out.
We'll see I guess.The author has some major story telling vices.
For example, she randomly dumps the information she gathered during her research in to add plausibility to the story.
Many of the reviews were not kind to this book.
I think that's why they call it fiction.
So there must have been some good reviews somewhere for me to seek out this thriller.
I think this was a satisfactory read.
Eve's own daughter, Bonnie was murdered, her body never found is the personal nightmare that drives and isolates her.
John Logan, a man of considerable means offers Eve a very large contribution to her favored charity, The Adam Fund if she will reconstruct the skull of a murdered adult.
Enter John Logan, billionaire and a man with many secrets, who wants to hire Eve to reconstruct a face from a skull in his possession and he needs this to be done in utmost secrecy.
Joe Quinn has a dark past but you can feel the love he has for Eve and how he always put her first in his life.John Logan..wow..this is same hot guy.
A trail of terrifying secrets...And a woman whose talented hands could reveal the shocking truth...As a forensic sculptor, Eve Duncan helps identify the dead from their skulls.
I thought the idea of this story was SO interesting but it kind of fell flat in some places and left me a little disappointed. I did enjoy it nonetheless but it could have been SO much more. I was totally drawn in by the work Eve does, I found it absolutely fascinating and that’s what made this book for me, I just had to read more about what she did. I thought the story was interesting as well but after awhile it became predictable and it felt like it was going in circles before coming to the obvious conduisions.
I liked this book very much, it was intense and interesting and I liked getting to know Eve Duncan and Joe Quinn from the beginning.
The story is very interesting and I was quickly pulled into it and wanted to know more.
There came a point in the book when I thought "no way, this is too farfetched, but then Johansen twisted the story once more and then the story seemed to make more sense (In that bookish way you know.
I suppose it's unfair to read this book after galloping through 3 Harry Bosch books by Michael Connelly, but it just didn't even start to do it for me.
Really surprised it's rated so high.I lasted maybe 15 minutes on a download.
Slow-moving, tedious with in-your-face hints,clues, and statements that Something Terrible happened to heroine's young daughter, that her mother is an addict gone straight and then TA-DA!
a rugged, incredibly handsome male appears.
I'd rather get Bosch #7 and I'm on the on-line waiting list.
(I just downloaded The Bosch Box which is #8-11 all at one swoop.)Oh, well.
New series for me and off to a good start :)
It was a little slow at times, but it was OK to read.
Took me ages to finish this book, really I think it came down to the fact I just did not care about these characters. Eve is a tortured "strong" woman, who constantly repeats empty mantras. "I am not a victim. Where are you Bonnie? I won't be a victim"Logan is an arrogant jerk, and I was never satisfied with the explanation about how he got embroiled in all this. Frankly, Fiske and Quinn were the most interesting characters and they didn't receive a decent amount of page time, IMO. Won't bother with the sequel.
Logan requires that she work on the skull in a secure location in Virginia.
Along the way various people are killed and Logan and Eve are in danger.REVIEWER’S OPINION:I felt like the author worked really hard at her plotting and development because they were detailed and complicated.
The conversations were rational except when Eve asked Bonnie where her dead body was.
Instead he, Eve, and one security guy were doing dangerous things without anybody else.
Toward the end Eve is the one who plots a way to get the bad guys.
This book wasn't believable from the beginning for me.
It annoys me when a character is portrayed as "strong" and has overcome some very difficult times but her actions completely contradict this.
A man (Logan) shows up at her house to offer her a job, she refuses continually and he refuses to leave.
How would a strong woman react?
I mean come on this man is a stranger to her - give me a break.
Maybe I'm in a bad mood or maybe I just have a lot of other books I'd rather read but, I will not be finishing this one.
This woman could truly be a roll model for young women once they've finished with the Nancy Drew series.I loved the book.
I've also ordered another one of hers from the library.Eve grew up as a bastard child of a stoned mother.
Her child was also a bastard, but led the way to both Eve and her mother getting their acts together.
The daughter, Bonnie, was kidnapped and persumed killed.
Bonnie appears to her mother.
Now that you've heard a little about Eve, please realize that this thread is just background for an extremely exciting mystery series.
I would have given this book a higher rating, except that about two thirds of the way in, all the characters were struck with a bout of stupidity.
The good guys all assume the bad guys have only got one killer employed.
Logan can hire security teams to look after Margaret and Sandra, but not to look after Eve or Gary.
There was absolutely no reason to think that anyone was safe.I could go on, but there isn't much to say except that the characters, and especially Eve, are morons.
The excuse is that everyone is becoming more and more emotional and stressed as the book progresses, but it really got ridiculous.
The Face of Deception is the first book I have read of Iris Johansen.
Readers of Face of Deception are going to be so surprised when they finally realise what is happening with the story.
The characters acted like brother and sisters accept Joe's wife who was upset with the situations and tried to break Eva and Joe up.
I did not like the ending of Face of Deception it left everything up in the air and asking questions for example what happen to John Logan!
If you like to read a book with a lot of twists and turns I recommend this book.
I first read Iris's books when she was doing romances, liked her style particularly a series based in the West. However, this series about the forensic anthropologist trying to find her kidnapped daughter's body really gets to me. I love the way Iris has shown her Eve Duncan outgrowing her background to develop her potential, and becoming passionate about bringing all murdered children 'home' by developing the faces that go with the skulls. Excellent series.
5 COULDN'T PUT THE DANG THING DOWN STARS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!A-MA-ZING.I LOVED THIS.TONS OF SUSPENSE AND CRAZY TWISTS!!!These books are a little pricey but I don't CARE!!! Started the second book the moment I finished the last page.
Johansen sure loves the word 'sardonically'. Fast summer read.
I'd give the storyline a 4, easily.However, this is the 3rd "Eve Duncan" book I've read, and I have to give the characters a 1...at best.
And her responses to people are more like those of a child, pushing people away and doing the exact opposite of what they ask her, just to spite them, even if it's not the action that makes sense.Finally, every character in the book is CONSTANTLY telling everyone else they need to get away and uninvolved, because it's not safe...and no one ever listens.
I found myself consistently wanting to reach into the books and strangle them all, they're that annoying.
As with most books, I tend to start reading them for a reason.
With ‘The Face of Deception’ this was entirely down to seeing the most recent book in the series (Taking Eve) in The New York Times Best Sellers list.
I’d recommend you get this to you in a heart beat if you want to have a seriously good read.Going off this book, I can see why there are now a massive collection of books in the series.
If you haven’t read them, I recommend you get started now.
You’ll never look back!For a full review, read it on my site here: http://chrisreads.com/the-face-of-dec...
I thought Logan was a creep and it drove me up the wall that Johansen was trying to make him and Eve romantically entangled. And I was furious when Logan and Joe have that secret meeting where they decide who gets to sleep with Eve and when. Disgusting. This is a book where the female protagonist keeps proclaiming that she's not a victim but keeps proving that she is one. Sad.
I enjoyed this one. This was my first Iris Johanssen book and I plan on reading any other Eve Duncan novels by her.
I kept thinking this was going to get better, but about 3/4 of the way through I finally gave up. The premise was ridiculous, the main character was grating and the dialog was clunky.
I found my next series to follow! How did I wait this long?
Azt hiszem, Gizella királynéval együtt nótálom: Jaj, de unom a politikát!Megállapítom, hogy IJ nem az én szerzőm. A politika és az összeesküvés elméletek abszolút hidegen hagynak, s mivel tudtam, hogy egész Eve Duncan sorozat van, így a főszereplőért sem kellett izgulnom. Logan kicsit sem volt rokonszenves, az viszont tetszett, ahogy az anyuka a sarkára állt. Ezzel együtt adok még egy esélyt a sorozatnak (hátha nem végig politika, kriminek meg elég olvasható volt:), már csak azért is, mert kíváncsi vagyok, lesz-e valami Eve és Joe közt (azon kívül, ami teljesen nyilvánvaló).
This is a review for this book along with the second of the series, The Killing Game.
I rated The Killing Game 2 stars as it is a little better.)I read the first few books of Johansen's Eve Duncan series several years ago close to when each was first released, late 90s.
During a snow day, I watched The Killing Game movie on Lifetime and enjoyed it.
The Killing Game is significantly better but still had way too many TSTL moments combined with unlikely scenarios for me to enjoy it.
I now remember why I didn't continue with this series.
You knew what was going to happen next and I started to lose interest.Eve is your typical troubled hero with a whole boat of luggage in her past.
In comes Joe, the big hero from Eve's past because what is a good mystery without a love triangle, except Joe the ass got married because...well I don't know why, I'm going to guess it's because he felt obligated to marry the woman he was with instead of the woman he wanted.
Premise of the story was very promising but as I already said, I grew tired of it an had to take breaks every half an hour or less.
I was looking for a new crime series to start so I really, really wanted to like this.
For me, the main character must be likable and the writing should be good to have a solid series..
I mentally found myself rolling my eyes at her constantly reminding herself and others how "strong" she was and "how she would never be a victim again." I simply didn't believe she was strong or capable.
She seemed easily manipulated and not mentally stable enough to take on any case.
It didn't.To review..The story was slow & boring.The main character wasn't likable.Not a series for me.
