https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/417524.Joseph_Had_a_Little_Overcoat
“Joseph Had a Little Overcoat” is definitely a children’s book worth reading to children everywhere!Since this book is told in a folk verse, I will just recite part of the verse:
Simms Taback’s retelling of this classic Yiddish folk song is creative and inventive as every time Joseph has old clothing, he turns it into something new, which shows what a resourceful and creative character he is.
Joseph had a little overcoat (not sure in what sense an overcoat can be "little" -- Joseph appears to be a normal-sized man); it gets too patched and worn so he cuts it down into a jacket.
When the jacket gets to frayed he makes it a vest, etc until there is nothing left.
From his house, Joseph doesn't look excruciatingly poor; not sure why he can't buy a new coat.
I see from the end note that this is a song.
Maybe had I grown up with this verse it would have been more appealing to me.
Based on a traditional Yiddish folksong (the lyrics and musical score of which are, in fact, featured on the last or rather the second to last page, much appreciated, although I would prefer to have both the English and the Yiddish lyrics included), Simms Taback's Joseph Had a Little Overcoat presents a totally and utterly magical marriage of text and image (I can more than well understand why and how this gem of a picture book was awarded the Caldecott Medal, as the illustrations are a true feast for the eyes, bright, lively, intensely descriptive and absolutely teeming with details and delightful fun).
I think this is a great story and really loved the message of making over what is old and worn-out into something new and useful.
It felt like a rich, warm book and the cultural elements seemed very special.
I'm afraid I am not knowledgeable enough to fully appreciate all of the nuances of what is included in the illustrations, but even so I could chuckle at some of them (like the "Fiddler on the Roof" references).
I also loved the back cover with all the vintage buttons!
A Caldecott award winner and deservedly so, the pictures alone would probably have done it. Unusual illustrations coupled with some cutout pages with pictures of the overcoat behind, it made for an interesting tale of making something out of nothing. Also a good lesson, and the note from the author at the end of the book, coupled with the actual sheet music of the Yiddish Folk Song made it a winner in my book.
This picture book was inspired by a yiddish folk song. It was about how Jospeh's coat was old and worn out but he always made something new out of the material.
A very cute folktale about a man that always makes the best of everything. Great way to teach kids that you can always make SOMETHING out of nothing!
A colorful, fun-filled story based on a Yiddish folksong, about a resourceful man named Joseph, who makes new things out of his old clothes.
Ever resourceful, he writes a book about it, the moral being that "you can always make something out of nothing." Joseph's colorful surroundings are not only peppered with everyday objects, but also Jewish folk sayings and jokes--adding interest for adults reading the book aloud.
In spite of the creative presentation and humor, my gut feeling is that this book might actually be more amusing for adults than children, because the story is about a bearded middle aged man rather than a child.Reviewers in Publisher's Weekly (11/1/99) and School Library Journal (Jan, 2000) agreed that the book was "tailor-made" (groan) for reading aloud.
Go ahead, call me a sucker; my husband did.Thinking on last night reminded me of Joseph Had a Little Overcoat, a 2000 Caldecott Medal winner by Simms Taback that teaches the virtues of thrift and being happy with what you have.
Or as Simms sums it up: "You can always make something out of nothing." He adapted the story from a Yiddish folk song he sang as a child.In what appears to be a turn-of-the-century Jewish village, Joseph is wearing a worn overcoat with patches holding it together.
A wonderful story that fit right in with the story of about the 3 Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) we just read.
This is a fantastic way to show how one item can be reused again and again until there's nothing left but to make a story or song about it.
We sang the song at the end together and our oldest made up a song on the spot, she was so inspired by the book.
This book was selected as one of the books for the January 2017- Caldecott Medal Winners 1998-2002 discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
See pix and the song here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=28Bww...For actual story, only slightly different from book, see your library.Wow, and I thought I was thrifty! Love the animals, and the pictures on Joseph's walls.
Based on a Yiddish folk song “I had a little over coat”, Joseph the main character tells a story of his overcoat.
Covered with holes this overcoat is turned into a jacket then a scarf, this transition continues to the end of the book.
The illustration and the structure of the book makes each page special, the use of watercolor and collage comes together to make pictures that tells Joseph’s story well.
Joseph had a little overcoat is a good natured book filled with delightful pictures of animals and a good lesson to learn.
Taback was inspired by a traditional Yiddish folk song, that tells the tale of a poor man whose overcoat had many holes.
He continues in this way until there is nothing left … and then he makes a book!
Taback’s wonderfully detailed illustrations earned a Caldecott Medal.
I found myself pouring over the vibrantly colored pages, full of small details that pictured traditional Jewish life in Poland.
In his illustrations Taback includes letters, newspapers, portraits, books and posters.
These details will appeal more to adults, but I marveled at the little history lessons included in them.
He even has a “Fiddler on the Roof” in one illustration!
This book had very interesting illustrations and a cool message about recycling. Also, I always love a meta ending haha.
One of my favorite Caldecott winning books - and one of the cutest! I love the illustrations and the clever design of the overcoat getting reused into other items. Definitely deserves the award!
Joseph starts out with a long overcoat, he wears it so much he continues to make a jacket, vest, a scarf, tie, a handkerchief and a button, because they keep wearing out. He loses the button and then has nothing, but the moral of the story is, "You can make something out of nothing!" Very colorful, easy reading, and the die cut shapes that give the clues to the next item that he makes is fun!
Lively art and strong message, plus it's a song.
Joseph Had A Little Overcoat by Simms Taback is a small and short picture storybook that has a big and long-lasting message, “You can always make something out of nothing”.
This decision sparks the beginning of Joseph’s journey with his little overcoat.Taback utilizes both words and artwork to tell the story of Joseph, however the illustrations add a personal understanding to the story.
The style of the lines in the illustration of Joseph Had A Little Overcoat are varied between thin, bold, horizontal, and vertical.
This technique combined with the numerous shapes in the illustrations, gives the two-dimensional characters a soft, cozy and relatable feel.
Approximate Interest Level / Reading Level: Early to Mid ElementaryFormat: Picture BookAwards: ALA Notable Books for Children (2000), Caldecott Medal (2000)I originally chose this book for the illustrations but on further exploration also found it culturally significant.
The artwork is a combination of watercolor, gouache, pencil, ink, and collage, and as an aside, you can explore the many minute cultural and sometimes humorous details, including newspapers lying on the ground, books lying about the house, theater advertisement posters and needlepoint proverbs hanging on the walls, and even misplaced letters, photographs, and postcards strewn about the house, which are in both Yiddish and English.
As he aged, so did the fabric, yet Joseph was able to find a use for this specific piece of his life that he loved.
The reader wants to turn the page to see which new illustration will be used in the cut out portion of the story.
The colors, texture, and lines are rounded, just like the story, that brings Josephs overcoat in a rounded way from coat to button, and Josephs life, beginning to end.
The entire story, words and illustrations, seem to say, this story flows from the beginnings of everything to the ends.
Another great aspect that showed this book was definitely a children’s book is how simplistic the illustrations are, although there was enough illustration on each page to tell the story the pictures were not overly detailed and or over dramatic.
Another aspect I realized when viewing the book was the author kept a black border around each of the pages, almost like a tunnel vision into the story, I thought that was an interesting technique.
Overall I Enjoyed reading this book and was intrigued how well the illustrator was able to tell the story with so little words.
There is also a copy of the original song at the end of the book.
While this book is recommended as a read-aloud and for storytimes, I'd only suggest this as a ono-on-one or small group activity because the pictures would get lost on a bigger group.Critical ReviewsPublisher's WeeklyPW loved this adaptation of a Yiddish folk tale.
It even mentions that the sequential and repetetive nature of this book make it ideal as a book to read aloud.
It does, however, mention the rhythm and repetition making it ideal for a read-aloud.Other Bibliographic InformationPublished in 2000 by Viking PenguinPages: 32Ages: 3-8
This book shows you how "you can always make something out of nothing." Joseph Had a Little Overcoat is about a man named Joseph who owns an overcoat that becomes old.
Joseph Had a Little Overcoat is an easy reading, cut out picture book.
This picture book was predictable due to how it written.
The structure consisted of Joseph had a little _item__ it got old and worn.
Each page was double spread with illustrations and minimal wording.
The book illustrations were colorful and abstract.
The book was cluttered with many characters and items.
The introduction of the book does not explain if Joseph is poor or rich and does not say what his religion is but when you open it you immediately feel as if you are in a foreign country.
The color scheme continues throughout the book and the rich culture does not leave the illustrations that support the text very well.
I feel that this is an amazing book that early readers love because it is so different from your typical easy-read books and there is no hidden meaning, the moral of the story is told directly to the reader, which I admire.
Joseph starts the book with a lavishing overcoat that serves him several purposes throughout the book.
He starts the book with a full coat and is quite happy, as the story goes on he continuously over wears the coat and is forced to make it into different clothing items to keep him warm.
The book is pleasing to the eye and serves as an example of Taback's style.
Each page contains a full fledged image with a sentence or two in the top corner to bring the pictures to life.
The book follows Joseph and his overcoat, which grows old and worn so he decided to refashion it into a jacket.
Every time Joseph uses what use to be the overcoat, it becomes old and worn, and Joseph re-stylizes it into another piece of clothing.
Joseph loses the button and decides to make a story out of his overcoat's adventure.
The color in the book represents a calm flow of colors, but at the beginning when Joseph is introduced, there is an array of warm colors for the flowers.
The illustrator uses diagonal lines throughout to give the story a feeling of movement and speed, as if the characters are in fact moving.
The story follows Joseph as he takes something, starting with his overcoat, which is old and worn and makes it into something new.
The words are bright colors, mirroring the bright colors of Joseph's overcoat, on a black background which acts as a fading margin for the illustrations.
The illustrations look to be paper-crafts, with cut-outs in the story showcasing the transition from article of worn clothing to the new article made by Joseph.
As mentioned, the cut-outs in the book overlap to form each new item that Joseph makes, until the button is lost.
Published by The Penguin Group (1999)32 Pages 5 Star RatingGenre: FictionGrade Levels: Pre-K through 5th GradeGuided Reading Level: HLexile Level: BR1280Summary: Jospeh had a little overcoat but it was filled with holes.
As the story goes on, readers are able to see what Jospeh does with a coat full of holes.
Teaching Ideas:  I would use this book at any time of the year, for any grade level Pre-k through 5th.
These times can be hard on students and make them feel like giving up or the feeling that they don't have much left.
It is about a man who starts with an overcoat.
That overcoat is worn so he makes it into something smaller.
Each time the piece of fabric gets too worn he makes it into something else such as a vest, tie, handkerchief, or button.
Grade level: K-2Appropriate classroom use: This is a good series of events book.
Vest or button, etc.
Small group use: Students could read this book aloud and practice pronouncing words or recognize words they do not know.
Whole class use: I would like to read this book aloud to students.
Children will read this book in anticipation of discovering what resourceful Joseph, the story’s main character, does with the fabric that is left of his already very worn overcoat as the piece becomes smaller and smaller and made into a variety of items.
Die-cut holes and mixed media including watercolor, Gouache, pencil, ink, and collage enhance the jovial, repetitious story by providing incredibly vivid imagery.
Author and illustrator Simms Tabak includes music and lyrics to the song the book is based on, the Yiddish folk song, “I Had a Little Overcoat.” Young (preschool through 1st grade) students will enjoy this 2000 Caldecott winning book, and it presents itself with a variety of classroom uses.
