https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122125.How_Do_Dinosaurs_Say_Good_Night_
The very short commentary – just one sentence per page or less – is all in rhyme:“How does a dinosaur say good night?when Papa comes in to turn off the light?Does a dinosaur slam his tail and pout?Does he throw his teddy bear all about?”It has lots of repetition; perfect if a young child is just beginning to recognise initial letters and be able to predict odd words.
The illustrator, Mark Teague uses various different perspectives in his full-page pictures, making the reader laugh out loud sometimes at the antics of the dinosaur child.
One of those books that --when your child wants you to read it for the 171st night in a row, with fervor? You don't mind one bit.
This is how it goes: "Oh, does little one not want to go to sleep?" "NNNNNOOOOOOOOOOO!!!" "What did you just scream at me like you were possessed of the devil?" *sigh*  "Okay, let's read a book about how all the dinosaurs you love go right to bed without any fuss.
Hmmm...Pteranodon, now does he throw a fit when daddy tells him to get in bed?
Everyone knows, sweet child, that dinosaurs don't do any of that.
They are so good, these dinosaurs.
They give kisses and turn off their own lights, and whisper good night.
Don't you want to be a big, bad dinosaur too?
This book had me laughing from first page to last.Jane Yolen is not only a prolific writer; she’s incredibly eclectic.
Children will certainly identify with the bedtime delaying tactics and behaviors the dinosaurs (don’t!) use.This is very cute and perfect for a bedtime story, as there aren’t too many words and the theme is how to go to bed without a fuss.
However, if the adults (and children?) are laughing too much, it might be hard to settle down to pre-sleep stage.
This really is very funny, illustrations and story too.This is one of six dinosaur related books selected for the July Picture Books Club at the Children's Books group.
Dinosaurs are extinct 'cause they went to sleep and never woke up.
Love dinosaurs.
(I still love Dr. Seuss more.)This reminds me of the time when I was a kid and the grandparents gave me an ironic nightgown with a dinosaur on it who didn't wanna go to bed.
I'd point to it as my reason/explanation for not going to bed.
Dinosaurs don't sleep!
Who needs 'em, anyway?My pet gator only pretends to sleep.
She will attack me and claim she had a "nightmare" that people turned her family into purses.
"You ate your family!
Nice try."I sleep with one eye open.
I don't know why it's taken me so long to try this first "How Do Dinosaurs..." book from author Jane Yolen and illustrator Mark Teague, but I'm glad that our July dinosaur theme, over in the Picture-Book Club to which I belong prompted me to give it a chance, as How Do Dinosaurs Say Goodnight is an absolute delight!
With a rhyming text that just begs to be read aloud - "How does a dinosaur say goodnight, when Papa comes in to turn off the light?
Does a dinosaur slam his tail and pout?
Highly recommended to all the little dinosaurs out there!
Do dinosaurs mope and shout when bedtime rolls around? Nope, they're well behaved. Ages: 3 - 6**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website: The Book Radar.
What surprises me is how many children's books - even children's books bearing impressive looking award seals - have illustrations that might kindly be described as abstract, but would more likely described as "ugly" by the average 6-year-old.
The beautiful "Carl" series (example: You're A Good Dog, Carl!) springs to mind as an exception, but these books also happen to have an absolute minimum of text: the paintings are relied upon entirely to tell the story.
The "How Do Dinosaurs" series is a rare intersection of well crafted rhyming text and lavishly executed yet playful illustrations of dinosaur children preparing for bed as their (human) parents look on.
Now anyone would think it would be easier to put a 2 year old boy down for a nap than to put a dinosaur to bed. You'd be wrong. Dinosaurs are surprisingly well behaved at bedtime. They even tuck in their tails! And read in bed! A Grandson Storyhour Recommendation
The text was fun, nothing spectacular (maybe I was expecting more by the children's book goddess that is Jane Yolen) but the rhyme is great for those bed-time read alouds.
I think the illustrations really brought it to life.
The expressions on the dinosaur's faces are SO funny, and the parents, gosh, I bet every mom and dad has made one of those faces at bedtime, haha!
I thought it was really clever how the actual name of each dinosaur was written somewhere in the illustration and I also appreciated the multi-cultural aspect of the parents.
This book is awesome. Id like to get the other books in this series also. My boys love it.
This is a delightful book, perfect for bedtime. I particularly loved the rhyming structure, and the illustrations were perfect. Not only did they convey emotion, they also portrayed parents diversely.
This is some quality literature right here
We all loved this one. Similar to another story about dinosaurs being sick we used to own, it's a level 1 reading book at best. But this one is best read out loud for two reasons. First of all, only a parent can truly to justice to the poetic rhyme of the words in this one, and second, because the kids really need to be focusing on these big, beautiful, descriptive pictures while the story is being read. Highly recommended.
I just adore Yolen's books. This one centers on different dinosaurs (whose names are hidden within the illustrations so kids can search for the name) showing, first, how not to go to bed, then showing appropriate bedtime behavior. The human moms and dads are of different ages, races, and body types - just like real-life moms and dads. The contrast of the huge dinosaurs in kid-sized bedrooms is hysterical. This book is an excellent read-aloud that invites audience participation.
So CUTE!! I have to do a report on a children's book and I'm so glad I got this one. The pictures are adorable and so nicely drawn. As an artist, I'm incredibly jealous of the art style. Also, it was only by the end that I realized the dinosaurs were a metaphor for kids, haha!!
very cute and helpful with bedtime.
Great bedtime story and for teaching bedtime routines.
Also, the images towards the end of the book that show the dinosaurs hugging just the mothers clearly emphasize my point about how the fathers are not shown to be on the dinosaurs’ good side and I think that there should have been images of the dinosaurs also hugging the fathers.“How Do Dinosaurs Say Good Night?” is a cute book about dinosaurs and loving parents that children will easily love for many years.
I would recommend this book to children ages four and up since there is nothing inappropriate about this book unless it might upset some parents that the fathers should be shown as calming down the dinosaurs.
is a picture book that ultimately challenges young children to say goodnight to their parents without the drama and emotion that is often associated with bedtime.
Through repetition and rhyme, this concept book describes inappropriate bedtime responses by a variety of dinosaur species.
They include stomping their feet, asking for a piggy back ride, throwing their teddy bears and roaring when mother or father says it is time to say goodnight.
The book includes a listing of all ten dinosaur species, beautifully illustrated, and in each bedroom the name of the species is hidden within the bed frame or a poster on the wall.
The teacher can also have the children look for the names of the dinosaurs on different pages.
For older kids, the teacher could have the students study the names in the book, to help them build their vocabulary, and maybe do a spelling test on the names.
After the observations, the teacher can introduce to the children the reasons for the names of the dinosaurs in the book.
books by the same author, the teacher can introduce basic library search skills, and have the children look and record how many other books by the same authors are about dinosaurs.
a teacher could read all the books to their students to introduce different dinosaurs.
I agree with other reviewers that this story is an entertaining "appropriate bedtime behavior" book.
But the kids that I read this to weren't terribly impressed.My niece liked it just fine, I suppose, although I don't know if she actually heard it.
He likes dinosaurs as much as the next kid, and these dinosaurs were funny, which I thought would be right up his alley.
Huh. Well, he was completely indifferent.The book is all of the great things that other reviewers say it is.
I just think its greatness was sort of lost on the children I read it to.
This is such a great book for toddlers and preschoolers.
I would classify this book as science fiction because it involves dinosaurs.
All young readers love books about dinosaurs.
This book shows different dinosaurs acting out when it is time to go to sleep.
But then the book shows that this in not the right way to behave.
There is a great lesson with this story which is great for preschoolers.The illustrations in this book are very details and realistic.
This would be the perfect book for a lesson on dinosaurs or about behaving for your parents.
All of the various dinosaurs pitching fits about going to bed are illustrated in a cartoonish manner mimicking the cartoonish behavior of small children. Sometimes I love the dino gestures and other times I love the look on the faces of the parents. I was surprised that the book was published in 2000 because many of the human parents have a 1950s illustrated vibe that seems out-of-place.At the end the good little dinosaurs tuck in their tails and hit the sack. I do think the final illustration of a dino sleeping clutching his teddy is pretty darn cute!
Pleasant read aloud about bedtime problems. Added bonus is the use of dinosaurs as the main characters. Each one is identified on the end pages, which spurred many of the children to seek additional books about dinosaur from the nonfiction shelves. There are three other "Dinosaur" behavior books in this series by Jane Yolen--"...Eat Dinner", "...Get Well So Soon", and "...Go to School".
Basic plot: The various tactics little "dinosaurs" use to get out of going to bed...There were dinosaurs I actually recognized in this one! I was excited. The art continues to be great, and the actions of the dinosaurs will cause a chuckle from the adults reading to their children. I like these books, and will continue to seek them out.
What I really enjoyed about this book wasn't so much the story (which is fun, though nothing indepth) but the fact that each illustration has a dinosaur labeled with its saurian name! I think this is a great way to introduce children to the various types of dinos and familiarize them with their fantastic names.
There are lots of books out to teach kids good manners, but when it comes to little boys, few things get through to them in the same way as dinosaurs. Having only a godson, I have no idea if this ploy is as effective with little girls, but I imagine it must be.
Jane Yolen's series about Dinosaurs will sure to be a fan favorite. Both boys and girls will enjoy the dinosaur characters Yolen has created. This is a an adorable series and I highly recommend them.
Listened to the french version on audiobook, just to get a little practice in. It's so cute!
