https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6371979-the-red-one
This story will not come as a surprise to anyone who has read London's classic "To Build a Fire." (I don't think I'm giving too much away by stating that.)I chose to read this because I had been led to believe it was a "lost world" story, but in fact I wouldn't classify it as such.
Read this story, along with a number of other pulp fiction works written in 1918 that had 'lost world' themes' for a meeting of the Reading Genres book club.
This meeting was devoted to the theme "1918" -- books written about events in 1918 or written in 1918.
A couple more rule of three stories. Not his best work, but better than many in the past 150 years.
Un naturalista impegnato nello studio della fauna di Guadalcanal viene incuriosito da un suono celes
Il destino di Bassett, naturalista inglese, è segnato nello stesso momento in cui, nell'isola di Guadalcanal, sedotto da un suono misterioso e intrigante che giunge da un punto indistinto dell'isola, decide di volerne scoprire l'origine. Venuto a conoscenza che la vista dell'oggetto che produce quel suono possente è soggetto a un culto sanguinoso che ne vieta l'accesso ai non adepti, Bassett va coscientemente incontro al suo destino pur di placare la sua ossessione. Un racconto che parla dell'animo umano, della sua capacità di scendere a compromessi e a bassezze pur di raggiungere i suoi scopi
At first I was intrigued by the sound of this book. Aliens in the Solomon Islands? And written by a famous American novelist? Let's check it out! It turns out this book really just a bloviating spew of racism and misogyny, with any trace of science fiction being a minuscule afterthought. Seriously, Jack London spends more time body-shaming the native women then actually describing the extraterrestrial object for which the story is named. This was really just a piece of prejudiced garbage. Fairly articulte garbage, I'll admit, but still garbage.
The introspection and observation that exists in "The Red One" is survivalist in tone--no surprise, coming from Jack London--and centers upon Bassett: A white explorer-scientist who combs the Pacific jungle wilds.
And, the ending will probably come as a shock to fans of modern sci-fi and horror, but will be par for the course for London aficionados.So while this anthology's other stories are comparatively the unspectacular, ramblings of mostly landlubbers turned hard-bitten sea-farers or prospectors, "The Red One" veers off course for a fairly suspenseful excursion that twists and turns into sci-fi and horror.
A nice antique for fans of both genres who might be pleasantly surprised by Jack London's ability to occasionally broach the other-wordly.
I read this as part of "Works of Jack London" from MobilReference, distributed by Amazon, Kindle edition.The Red One: An explorer follows strange sound into the African jungle, becomes lost.
(*** = three stars)The Hussy: A man goes to Ecuador to work on the railway, and ultimately seek a huge "nugget" of gold, guided by a beautiful, enigmatic Indian maiden.
(** = two stars)What's in common with the stories: They feature men off to exotic dangerous places to seek adventure and wealth or fame.
Two of the tales (The Hussy, and The Princess) are being recited by the characters in the story.
There is a racial and misogynistic undertone that runs through the course of novel when the main character explains how horrendous the woman he is looking at, is.
Apart from this its quite enjoyable story, the character who is a scientist or clearly has exposure to science is rendered helpless in this island.
There is a lot of things happening around him and in privacy of his mind he observes people.
Most part of the story is main character talking about people or the red one.
For a story written in 1916 (though it was published in 1918), the elements of science fiction is astounding.
Decent book of short storiesDecent book of short stories, ranging all over the place. Some tales of the Netherlands, some tales of the south seas. All adventure stories of the trials and tribulations of men. No compass to the book, however, as the stories don't together in any way at all.
So strange, and bizarre especially coming Jack London, The Red One is an intriguing a little story about sacrifice. It was somewhat vague, but very imaginative and mystical. I enjoyed it, as I have many other tales by this great American author.
Very unlike any Jack London works I've ever read. Has a lot of elements of sci-fi (mostly in the titular The Red One) that make it unique to the rest of the London catalogue but it makes the collection of 4 short stories all that more interesting.
Read for AP English III
this is the short story collection that would never end...it goes on and on my friends.
Mildly interesting, others have done better jobs with the same themes.
It took me a few tries to get into it, but I was well rewarded with great imagery when I did.
Not a bad read for a Novella.
