https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1302582.A_Bird_in_the_House
I'm having a hard time being objective with this read since I read it for my Canadian Short Stories class and had to present on it for three hours. THREE HOURS. I TALKED. A LOT. ABOUT IT. I think it's a really sad book. And I found the ending a bit defeatist. I thought the family dynamic was really toxic. But I also thought it was interesting.
I've heard it said that short stories are harder to write than novels, so I often wonder why an author like Alice Munro chooses the format, and as a reader, as much as I love her collections, I feel a bit deflated as each story ends and I am compelled to pause and decide if I want to immediately start the process of meeting and understanding a whole new cast of characters on the next page.
This isn't a complaint, it just read like a novel instead of a collection of short stories, and it was a satisfying way of jumping through time to watch Vanessa mature and find her place in her family and the wider world.The title of A Bird in the House has two meanings.
A Bird in the House is the fourth book in the Manawaka Series by Margaret Laurence - the common denominators being a female narrator and the fictional town of Manawaka, a small town in Saskatchewan, where the narrator currently or once lived.In A Bird in the House, the female narrator is Vanessa MacLeod, a fourteen year old girl when the story starts and middle-aged whe her story ends.
One cannot help but be captiavated by Vanessa MacLeod.As usual, Laurence’s writing is terrific - at times direct, often lyrical, engaging, wonderful about connecting the reader with its characters and carrying the reader along with the story line.Margaret Laurence is a stellar writer who deserves to have a greater following for her talents.
3.75 out of 5 stars    "I went upstairs to my room. Momentarily I felt a sense of calm, almost acceptance. Rest beyond the river. I knew now what that meant. It meant Nothing. It meant only silence forever.”  Really enjoyed all the symbolism as well as the characters and their relationships.
This is an old favorite, and I picked it up to choose a story to include in my first-year lit class in the fall.
Each story is a jewel of introspection, but taken together, they form an episodic novel that is to me one of the most moving accounts in literature of finding your way through family dynamics.
The child at the centre of the stories, Vanessa, is sensitive to the undercurrents of emotion that rage beneath the sometimes placid, sometimes dour, sometimes cruel personae of her progenitors, but the book is most moving when its narrator captures the limits of such insight, the sense that everyone who comes before us is shaped by a multi-layered past, that they will shape us in turn, and that we can get only glimpses of how and why it all means something.
The writing style is very smooth, and rather unemotional considering the nature of the stories.
The format of interconnected short stories featuring the same protagonist is a genius way of telling childhood stories; they don't always run in chronological order, and something about that makes you feel more connected to Vanessa.
Perhaps it's that you feel less like you're watching her grow up, and more like you're remembering alongside her.
Each one of these stories is quiet, but profoundly devastating.
Quiet in that the tragedies are not something heavily focussed on- they are just things that happen, they are normal.
Which is also what made them so devastating.
It's not a "series" in the sense that one normally thinks of a series; the books are only loosely connected–each one has a different main character–and so they really stand alone.
There's no need to read them in order or together.
This is a book that I think I could re-read over and over again.
It's actually not a novel, but eight interconnected short stories.
The stories center on the childhood of a girl who grows up to be a writer, essentially depicting the process of how a child becomes a writer.
Me ha recordado mucho a una pelicula, "El Rio" de Jean Renoir. Una pena que Margaret Laurence no haya sido editada en castellano, una escritora inmensa a la altura de Alice Munro o Margaret Atwood.Qué buenas son las escritoras canadienses!!!!l
Such a beautiful book! It made me nostalgic for a time and place I've never experienced. Simple yet haunting. I'm not normally one for child protagonists, but Vanessa is neither saccharine nor overly sassy/precocious. I want to write like this.
What a classic. The writing is pitch perfect, the stories all-consuming. A truly wonderful collection of short stories.
This is perhaps a shortcoming of Laurence's and may be her reason for presenting as short stories.
This family may be mentioned in the other Manawaka books, but I most remember them from The Diviners, as Morag and Jules have a relationship of sorts.
There is a discrepancy, Vanessa (protaganist in Bird) writes that Grandmother McCleod goes to live with Aunt Morag.
But why introduce two Morag characters?Other than that, Bird confronts personal responsibility from several angles.
Whether heroes or villans, how much are we responsible for and how much are we forced into by circumstance?I love Laurence's strong female characters and that she presents a richness in female characterization.
The format of this is really interesting, as the timeline jumps around at times, and everything is being told by adult Vanessa about her childhood self and family.(Hence why this is an adult novel about a young character, not a YA novel, which I initially thought it would be because of the cover.)Things don't have happy endings all the time, and not everything is resolved.
The fact that it's set in the thirties and the Great Depression, and Vanessa is an aspiring writer, and the peeks you get of her older self are all really, really cool.
The self-awareness of the young narrator in this collection of short stories helped me get in touch with my own 'inner child' in the most pleasant way (and my 'inner elder') since her perspective includes that arc of time passed.The way she nails the view youngsters have of parents, grandparents, aunts, uncles, and their revealing comments might make you reconsider what you let the kids hear about in your life.
Laurence reveals what has prevented the ability of these two young girls to relate to each other, without having any heavy 'agenda'.High quality writing, and highly recommended.
My all time favorite Canadian author, Margaret Laurence relives her own childhood memories of her grandfather's brick house and the family inside it.
They are very Canadian stories - I'm not sure how to explain that any better.
Other authors who detail their own growing up years with a few embellishments are: Sinclair Ross, who writes through a woman's narration about the loneliness, the desolation of the prairies in both winter and summer - either blowing snow, or blowing dust and soil, and is so believable, I thought Ross was a female writer for years; Rudy Wiebe, who writes about the Mennonite establishments, as well as the flower children years, when the throngs of hippies squated on anyone's land picking "shrooms"and daffodils during their season in BC; Earnest Buckler, who, in The Mountain and the Valley, is the voice of an idealist young boy coming of age with desires and determinations that always seem to fail; (to be continued)
Winter turned into spring and I decided I had plenty to read and listed it on BookMooch.
No one mooched it, so I ended up reading it.I really really enjoyed this book.
I'm not really sure I can explain why.
I'm not really sure I understand why.
But I really really enjoyed this book.The author did a good job of telling the story through the narrator.
The narrator is an adult, maybe even an older adult, telling of people and events from her childhood.
The child the narrator was comes across as a smart kid, maybe even precocious, but not like an adult in a child's body.
I read each of the short stories in this book on their own originally, and out of order, over a number of years.
And I've read them together as a novella countless times.
They stand alone, and they stand as a coherent, interconnected story.Laurence masterfully captures the voice of Vanessa, her young protagonist, in a way that doesn't condescend to children, but also doesn't grant comprehension beyond their experience.
A Bird in the House is a coming of age story at its best; it's what makes this book identifiable, heartwarming, and, at times, utterly heartbreaking.
This is one of the books in Margaret Laurence’s Manawaka series.
The characters seem entirely real: Vanessa, a lonely girl and budding writer; mother Beth who is expecting a second child; father Ewan, a World War I veteran and doctor; her unemployed Aunt Edna; her Connor grandparents, the gentle grandmother and the upright, unbending and unlovable grandfather.
There’s also her grandfather’s brother, the colourful and disreputable great-uncle Dan. Each story is told from the point of view of Vanessa as she grows up in Manawaka during the depression years and gains more understanding of her world.
I was not expecting to love this, but it has fast become one of my favourites.
These stories are exquisite.
A series of self-contained short stories, inter-related through their characters and their narration by Vanessa Macleod for whom they are childhood memories, understood and related to us through the lens of her adulthood.
The stories, like memories, are fragmented, revolving around moments of internal realization or external change, moments where some truth of self or life crystallizes for Vanessa.
I loved all these stories, but of all of them I loved " The Loons" the best.
My friend got me started on Margaret Laurence with The Diviners, and except for a few moments when I perceived language choices as not aging well (since the 1970s), I loved it.
A Bird in the House, a short story collection in the mode of Alice Munro's The Beggar Maid (same characters throughout), also set in Manawaka, can be read and enjoyed either with or independently of The Diviners.
The language is unfussy and, to my ear, maybe even more powerful than in the later novel.
I was also amazed to learn from the inside back cover that Margaret Laurence translated Somali poetry!
Another brilliant Margaret Laurence novel.
The novel is told in a series of fragmented, out-of-order short stories about protagonist Vanessa MacLeod's childhood and teenaged years in Manawaka, Manitoba.
With themes ranging from the struggles of the depression to the struggles of the artist, the novel portrays the challenges of life in beautifully scripted prose.
Each chapter -- or story -- seems to focus on another character who has, in their own unique -- and often brief -- way, influenced the life of the protagonist.
Brilliant both in showing the impact brief acquaintances play in forming us and that all of us -- no matter how different -- face our own demons.
Holy crap.
I did not expect to like this book, but I did.
It's not terribly exciting, in that the it doesn't have a wild, fantastical plot: it tells the rather ordinary and sad story of a girl growing up in a small town.
But the detail of it just blew me away.
I really got a sense of being inside the girl's life and head.
It was truly an amazing experience to read this book.
It did exactly what I like books to do, which is to take me to another place and show me what it's like to be someone else.
i loved it....Margaret Laurence has always been one of my favorite authors. It was a book that i had not ever read, and there are still a few others. To revisit such fine writing was refreshing. Here writing is the backbone of Canada. We get so caught up in the Chick-lit, and "fast to rise" authors, that we forget what constitutes a good story, and are to easily strayed by the "flash". Like i commented earlier, this was a refreshing break, and revisit. I plan on being a little harsher on the books i read in the future.
The most autobiographical of the Manawaka stories. Protagonist is Vanessa MacLeod. Interesting that these are linked stories which became popular several years later. A different pace again from that in A Jest of God, The Fire Dwellers and The Diviners but a number of connections bind this book to the others tightly: the Camerons, Piquette, Simlow's Ladies Wear (Morag worked there), the book The Clans and Tartans of Scotland by Henry Pearl who was the father of the man Skinner lived with while going to high school.
These short stories are all told by Vanessa MacLeod, a child growing up in a home dominated by her crotchety grandfather. Vanessa's gentle grandmother and their two daughters, Vanessa's mother and Vanessa's frustrated Aunt Edna also live in the home. The characters, their relationships and their stories were more interesting to me than they normally would have been because they were seen through the eyes of a child who was struggling to understand them. Laurence captures Vanessa beautifully.
This book was a completely random purchase at the Brattle (used book store). I mean, I don't even like short stories! I enjoyed these a lot though, maybe because the same main characters were used throughout, so even though the stories were just vignettes, you still got a sense of, and cared about, the people. Reminiscent of other Canadian writers who seem to have an interesting and nuanced perspective of women's lives (Alice Munro, Carol Shields). I will definitely read more of her writing.
I studied abroad in England during my Junior Year of college. I have been searching for this book ever since. I remember loving this story collection, and thought it would be easy to get a hold of stateside (being that Canada is closer to the US than it is the UK). How wrong I was.I had started to think I'd imagined the author's name and the title of the book. (I was, in fact, misspelling it.)Looking forward to revisiting the characters in this book and the interconnected stories.
A really nice easy read about a young girl growing up in Canada. I felt like I was reading about someone's own childhood- very believable characters that you came to care about. It's quite a short book & I would have been happy to have a few more chapters...a little gem.It reminded me of something else & I think I finally put my finger on what it was...Vanessa reminded me of Scout in "To Kill a Mockingbird".
4 STARS"A Bird in the House is a series of eight interconnected short stories narrated by Vanessa MacLeod as she matures from a child at age ten into a young woman at age twenty. Wise for her years, Vanessa reveals much about the adult world in which she lives." (From Amazon)brilliant collection of short stories about one family set in the town of Manawaka. I first read this in Junior High School and enjoyed it but in reading in context as a "series" I appreciated it even more.
Loved the family dynamics of this short story collection! I felt that Vanessa could be a somewhat flat character at times, but the interactions between her and her family members kept me interested. Some genuinely interesting and (in the case of Grandpa Conner) frustrating characters that will evoke strong connections/reactions from any reader.
Another amazing and moving story by Margaret Laurence!Vanessa is growing up in the small, rural town of Manawaka - all around her, she sees family struggles, pride, and hardship. She desperately wants freedom, and a life away from her hometown...I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys coming of age stories, fiction, and Margaret Laurence!Enjoy!
