https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/739942.Markings
So, I read this book only during Sundays for two months and it was quite fitting because the book is a compilation of writings, like a personal diary, of Dag Hammarskjold (1905-1961), who was a Swedish diplomat, economist and author.
A Revealing Spiritual Self-Portrait by One of the Great Peacemakers of Our Times." Prior to reading this book, I did not know anything about Hammarskjold.
Days prior to his plane crash in September 1961, he even wrote some very moving poems and they are printed on this book's last few pages.After reading the book, I have many pages dogeared.
Beautiful writing and profound thoughts from the late former secretary-general of the United Nations.
Excerpts: "Why this desire in all of us that,after we have disappeared, the thoughts of the living shall now and again dwell upon our name?
The consequences of our lives and actions can no more be erased than they can be identified and duly "labelled- to our honour or our shame.'The poor ye have always with you.' The dead too.""Why is it that when I know that someone had a tragic or untimely death, my eyes always encounter what they wrote about death?""The longest journeyIs the journey inwards.Of him who has chosen his destiny,Who has started upon his questFor the source of his being(Is there a source?).""Is my contact with others anything more than a contact with reflections?
After his death, these notes were translated and published as "Waymarks", or as in this edition, "Markings".
The passages I enjoyed the most were clear and instructive:"Concering men and their way to peace and concord -?
You fancy you can be responsible to God; can you carry the responsibility for God?" There are many passionated devotees of this book and I feel as though I've missed something in reading it.
Either way, I found the book intriguing but hard to read.
Perhaps it is best enjoyed as something to pick up, read a few lines, and then put away for another time.
It is impossible to summarise a book which spans the entirety of a person's life, but perhaps it is possible to discern the themes or issues that this person obsessed over, at least at a personal level.
Many things -- a lot of the haikus written in the 2 years before his death, for example -- I simply slip by because I don't have a good sense of what he wanted to communicate.
It is in this sense that humility is absolute self-effacement......To give to people, works, poetry, art, what the self can contribute, and to take, simply and freely, what belongs to it by reason of its identity.
On the surface, it's just a collection of one man’s quotes, poetry, reflections, and truths.
And yet what makes the book special is who the author was: Dag Hammarskjöld, praised by many, including our own President of the United States, John F.
He is the only person to have been awarded a posthumous Nobel Peace Prize; there has been persistent speculation the Secretary-General was assassinated.
I bought the book because I kept running across these amazing quotes by him which just made me want to read more.
The truth, You shall be told it.
Now I had an actual reason to read it -- plus I had learned online, that it was a "spiritual autobiography." It's a strange book, published in English in 1964, and apparently forgotten completely.
Though it's just as good as Thich Nhat Hanh.
(I'm just guessing -- I went for a walk once with Mr. Hanh, but he didn't say anything.
This was at the Ashocan Reservoir.) Nobody wants to read spiritual thoughts by a diplomatic Swede anymore.
A highly respected politico here in the U.S., Dag was a brilliant thinker. Do yourself a favor. Pick up this book. Read through it bit by bit. That is how it is meant to be read. I will NEVER give away my copy.
It would be egomania to say that I feel a lot like Dag Hammarskjold.
The scale of personal responsibility I have for the people of my county is a mere grain before the burden Hammarskjold bore for the world.
It doesn't perfectly describe the whole of my attitude and philosophy any more than the same description could describe someone like Dag Hammarskjold.
And in this capacity I found ways to organize my own philosophy by adding to my understanding of Hammarskjold (a person I have always admired as a public servant).
*When Markings quotes from scripture, it is almost always from the Old Testament.
I'm old enough that I grew up with Dag Hammarskjold in the news on about a weekly basis.
He was the second Secretary General of the United Nations at a time that people paid a lot more attention to the United Nations than they do now.
A Swede, Hammarskjold was a lifelong practicing Lutheran.
Auden wrote the Introduction and notes throughout the book.
In my opinion, Auden added a lot to our understanding of "Markings."This book is well worth a look, it is written in aphorisms, so even a brief look is worthwhile.
Hammarskjold died in an aircraft crash in Africa in 1961.

In the end I floundered through nearly a third of his dense collection of religious epigrams, but found it all a bit too abstract.
Which is a shame, especially because it’s translated and introduced by W.H. Auden (Faber and Faber, 1964).I did love this line, however: “only that can be really yours which is another’s, for only what you have given, be it only in the gratitude of acceptance, is salvaged from the nothing which some day will have been your life.”It’s not all theoretical ethics, though; when I skimmed through a last section of poems I found “Elegy For My Pet Monkey, Greenback” – the poor creature jumped to grab a coil of rope and managed to hang himself instead.
More books should be written by the U.N. Secretary-General, translated, and reinflected by W. H. Auden. What a great idea.
Om Augustinus skiljde på två typer av existentiella frågor – vem är jag och vad är jag – kan man i Vägmärken lägga märke till en förskjutning av den senare frågeställningen till: Vad är jag i relation till Dig?Till skillnad från andra troende (exempelvis Pascal eller Augustinus) är verket skrivet under hela Hammarskjölds livstid - ingenting är bestämt utan författaren söker kontinuerligt styrka i ordet och i dialog med Gud. Dialogen ger verket en tyngd och riktning; kompositionen liknar en vattenström – evigt föränderlig och alltid mottaglig för läsarens självbespegling.
This book often left me pondering, and feeling humbled and yet grateful at the same time.Fascinating and sometimes beautiful quotes."Friendship needs no words--it is solitude delivered from the anguish of loneliness.""We carry our nemesis within us: yesterday's self-admiration is the legitimate father of today's feeling of guilt.""Your cravings as a human animal do not become a prayer just because it is God whom you ask to attend them.""The Strait Road--to live for others in order to save one's soul.
This is kind of a classic for activists in Sweden, and I really really enjoyed it.
I don't know a lot about Dag Hammarskjöld's life apart from some basic facts, but it was so fascination to read some of his thoughts and ideas.
This book is mostly about how we should act towards other people, but it also has some poetry, and reflections on life and God. I'm not Christian myself, but I really felt like this book taught me some valuable lessons and gave me new perspectives.
If you're a person who is dedicated to making the world a better place, I would highly recommend this book!
Reading "Markings" is a fascinating experience: often meandering, sometimes inconclusive, yet finishing with such a powerful sense that Hammarskjöld's story has been guided by an invisible yet undeniable Providence. As the text approaches his death, he shifts into an increasingly poetic mode, often writing in haiku or other short, elegant forms, and with that shift in form he seems to be increasingly resigned to the call on him to lie not for himself but for God. Not an easy read, yet a powerful and fulfilling one.
Finally finished it! Markings is good, but not for the faint of heart. Every sentence requires deep concentration, and I'm sure there was a lot I missed. No doubt Hammarskjold was a genius and a man of deep faith. His honesty to look straight at his dark side was inspiring. So many morsels of wisdom. The style of mixing prose and poetry was great - motivates me to try the same thing. However, I doubt the book would be considered a classic if written by a lesser-known person.
An interesting collection of thoughts and poems. Unexpected and at times poignant in their loneliness and stolidness. I mostly browsed and read when I was caught, skipping past the religious themed pieces and focusing on the more existential parts. It was an enjoyable evening with the rain falling against the window.
I feel that if I didn't identify with his struggle to overcome a feeling of self-importance I would have hated reading this book, but so often I found his attempts to embrace humility so important to my own life and sense of purpose.
This book is an excellent collection of reflections and thoughts by former U.N. Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjöld. It offers some interesting food for thought.
Hidden gems worth the patience and the wait.
loved his haiku.
These documents record his monologue right up to and till immediately before this tragic point and concern many of his personal struggles - from a difficulty in satisfactorily serving God to his temptation to commit suicide; as well as his struggles dealing with personal loneliness and constant intense emotionally draining work.In a world that increasingly looks eastward in popular spiritual philosophy Hammarskjöld may appear painfully unfashionable.
I think Hammarskjöld himself was strongly conscious of this as he quotes from Tsze Sze of the Confucian tradition in between a passage from Matthew and comments on Eckhart.
As the new globalized world reconstituted the balance of power after the destruction of World War II, Hammarskjold stood in the center of the matrix of power and recorded this experience as a Christian, as a prophet, and as a human being encountering what man hath wrought in the atomic age.
Standing in the center of the vortex of power, Hammarskjold records what I read as the central experience of longing of the human person in a post-modern world:“So rests the sky against the earth.
From 1950 and a poem called "Night is Drawing Nigh":Only that can be really yours which is another's, for only what you have given, be it only in the gratitude of acceptance, is salvaged from the nothing which some day will have been your life.From 1951:There is a point at which everything becomes simple and there is no longer any question of choice, because all you have staked will be lost if you look back.What Dag writes makes you think.
It is simply: how are you making use of it.And death is a bad thing, right?
Recommended by an acquaintance as: "In a time when the world needs heroes, this book is a beautiful echo of what we once had, and what we could have again".I will admit that apart from an academic awareness from high school of Hammarskjöld as the second UN SG, I didn't really know too much about him.
It's quite rare to read a memoir or autobiography and get a sense for the person unadorned.
After reading it you get a true sense of a troubled, but resolute soul, committed to a great cause and deeply curious about the nature of the world.
I chose this book as part of my own personal quest to understand the spiritual self.
I have never regretted buying this book with hard-earned money as I continue to open it up and delve into a very personal account of Hammarskjold's struggles for that common ground of spiritual peace.
Nevertheless, this is a book that I consider to be a bright candle lighting my world and I treasure this book for its wisdom and the reflected wisdom of my grandfather in his choice many years ago for my education.
Hij bezocht veel landen en had contact met de groten der aarde, maar hij bleef bescheiden en vond het een eer om dienstbaar te zijn.
Zijn aantekeningen zijn een gesprek met zichzelf en later ook met God en omvatten de periode 1925-1961 en daarmee een heel leven.
Het werk omvat naast proza ook gedichten en haiku’s en doet denken aan ‘Reis naar het Noorden’ van Basho.
Maar eenmaal bovenaan is het uitzicht adembenemend en prachtig.Hammarskjöld was naast diplomaat ook een enthousiast bergbeklimmer.
Merkstenen zijn de stenen die een bergbeklimmer achterlaat in het landschap om zijn weg terug te vinden.
This book is his private journal, in which he struggles with a deeply personal and private faith in the context of a vocation that called him to one of the most visible and influential offices in international politics.
Hammarskjold's frend W.H. Auden contributes a moving foreword that supplies a context for Hammarskjold's writing.
But as the foreword notes, Hammarskjold does not "make a single direct reference to his career as an international civil servant, to the persons he met, or the historical events of his time in which he played an important role."

