https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32620349-midnight-at-the-bright-ideas-bookstore
While each character was written in the most excellent form, I felt those two were the shining stars of our tale and I could have read a book solely on the turmoil between the two.This story was so many things; while it was weighted with a heavy sadness, it was equal parts dry humor and wit.
With the inside story being as captivating as the outside cover, I think readers will be pleased and moved by how the author chooses to take many timely issues and subtly place them in the narrative for pondering beyond the immediate tale.*Many thanks to the publisher for providing my copy; it was a pleasure to provide my honest thoughts here.
I absolutely loved this little gem of a novel!
I listened to the audio.
This novel is tough to describe because it's unlike anything I've ever read.
I never expected this book to have so much dark to it and take so many unexpected twists!
Suicide, murder, books and so much more!
Just wow!The characters in this novel were very well developed and fleshed out!
This book was so well written and very easy to follow.
Which is a big plus while listening to audio.
If it wasn't for my Goodreads Friends I would never have picked this book.
The compassionate and sensitive Lydia is a book clerk at the Bright Ideas Bookstore inhabited by her beloved bookfrogs.
A shell shocked Lydia is bewildered when she finds a photograph of a birthday party when she was 10 years old with her friends, the steadfast Raj and the wild whirlwind that was Carol.
Bequeathed Joey's meager belongings, Lydia finds books with cut out windows that link with other books providing cryptic clues.
His love of books is unmistakable, as he uses them as the medium to define characters, to provide clues and mystery, and give a focal bookstore background for Lydia and her array of eccentric bookfrogs.
(see my original review), one of the last books I read which took place in a bookstore.
Strangers and acquaintances and the occasional friend unloaded on her by the hour..."One night, just as the store was closing, Lydia finds Joey, the youngest, most sensitive and inquisitive BookFrog, with whom Lydia has struck up a friendship of sorts, has committed suicide on the store's top floor.
When she finds out that Joey has bequeathed Lydia his meager possessions—mostly a few random items and a milk crate full of books, most of which he bought from the store, she is saddened for the path his life took.
3 out of 5 stars to Midnight at the Bright Ideas Bookstore, a new mystery and thriller novel set to release on June 13, 2017, by author Matthew J. Sullivan.  Why This Book  For all us readers, who wouldn't love a book with such a title? And when you read the description, learning about a horrific murder from the past, a suicide in the present, and mysterious connections between all the characters, your intrigue and suspense spidey senses will climax. I found it on NetGalley and thought it sounde
And when you read the description, learning about a horrific murder from the past, a suicide in the present, and mysterious connections between all the characters, your intrigue and suspense spidey senses will climax.
When Raj and Lydia meet another young girl, the three try to maintain a friendship, but something disastrous takes place, changing the future of their lives.Years later, Lydia works at a book store several towns away, but she no longer speaks with her father.
It almost feels like there are some missing parts of her life which could have lead to the suspense of what happened all those years ago.Joey dies almost immediately, so you don't get enough time with him.
How do you turn the page on one horrific, mind-shattering experience that locks into your psyche like handcuffs on a wayward criminal?Or in Lydia's case, make that two.......Lydia Smith works as a dedicated clerk at the Bright Ideas Bookstore in Denver.
But one of those BookFrogs, Joey Molina, hasn't come down after the "time to close" warning.Lydia rushes up the stairs and is struck speechless.
While Joey never really interacted with the others, his landlady gives Lydia stacks of books from his apartment.
Sullivan presents a story like no other in that pile of books on your own table.
Sullivan's use of Joey's code is a creative one.
Joey hung himself right there in the Bright Ideas Bookstore and poor Lydia was the one who discovered his body.
Lydia is deliberately living a low -key life, enjoying her work as a clerk at the Bright Ideas Bookstore.
The suspense slowly snuck up behind me, as the story gradually progressed from the mystery of Joey’s suicide and deciphering his codes, to morph into a rather chilling tale of a rampage killing, and cold case, that changed the course of Lydia’s life forever.
I enjoyed this imaginative and original mystery novel and do hope to see more books by this author in the near future.
Wow!
Can I give this 6 stars please!?This was the perfect book for a traveling sister read with my Canadian sisters Norma and Brenda!!
We literally read the entire book together chapter by chapter chatting constantly!
The author gave us so many paths to go down and yes, we ventured down each one trying to put the pieces of this mystery together.
Loved every step of this journey.
I am so sad it's finished!I absolutely adored this book!
Highly recommend!For our full traveling sister review please visit Norma and Brenda's fantastic book blog: http://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi...
I enjoyed this unique and clever mystery revolving around a past crime which is slowly unraveled through clues within several books.The main character, Lydia Smith, works at the Bright Ideas Bookstore.
She has a tragic history that she hopes is left in her past – I was very curious about her secretive side and all that she was trying to hide.The story is filled with several eccentric characters, each adding to the books intriguing plot.
I also enjoyed the exploration of family relationships throughout this story.I thoroughly enjoyed this compelling, suspense-filled, highly entertaining read and would recommend it!
One night Lydia finds Joey hanging in the air.
Lydia finds out that Joey has left her all of his possessions.
He served just over 2 years.She then finds out that a lot of Joey's books that he left her have all been mislabeled.
This all leads back to the terrible night with The Hammerman and the search is on to find out who this scary terrible man is.My ThoughtsI loved this book, it was a great surprise.
It is one of those character driven novels.
I loved Lydia.
4.5 Stars!
More than just your run-of-the-mill whodunit!When I first laid eyes on this book-cover, I knew I had to read it, but the shocker of a beginning that leads to an even bigger....much more intense....shocker along the way turned this DEBUT into a downright page-turner for me.Lydia is a first-rate bookseller and friend to ALL who enter The Bright Ideas Bookstore, but....she has a haunted past....and after the tragedy of a troubled friend, she is left with a saddened heart and baffling mystery to solve.MIDNIGHT AT THE BRIGHT IDEAS BOOKSTORE has a creative, multi-layered storyline with colorful characters and addictive writing, and Matthew J.
Although I was reluctant at first to follow the buzz, I am glad I did because it was a fun read perfect for my summer vacation.The main reason why this novel is so popular is that it seems to be written specially to tingle every book lover’s pleasure receptors.
However, I sometimes thought that the author was trying too much to satisfy my bookish personality.The main mystery interlocked nicely with Lydia’s past secrets and I was surprised by some of the plot turns.
I would have bypassed this one if not for some rave reviews. The cover - not all that attractive; the title, not all that luring. But, a story about a bookstore, about books and a suspicious suicide? Count me in for being intrigued. Once I opened these pages and delved into the story it spun me into a world of death, secrets and deceit. I will never look at a hammer the same way again.A surprisingly refreshing read. 4⭐️
So, the time finally came for me to start reading during a week-long seaside vacation.
I expected references to books, authors and literary characters, something that would trigger Lydia's thinking.
It was clever to combine problematic relationships with family problems and a deep feeling of isolation for most of the characters in a way that wasn't melodramatic or mundane.
It was the horrible Epilogue that made me consider this book a lost chance and a major disappointment.Now these writing issues cannot but influence the characters of the story.
Joey was the heart of the story and the only character that created feelings in me.
Midnight at the Bright Ideas Bookstore is a beautifully sad, atmospheric mystery about the tragic events connected to a young man’s suicide.  The majority of the story is told through the POV of Lydia, a 30 year old bookseller who witnessed the horrific “Hammerman” murders when she was 10 years old. The murders went unsolved, and Lydia’s survival story turned her into her a national sensation.Fast forward 20 years later, and Lydia has done all she can to bury the past...until Joey, one of the r
Midnight at the Bright Ideas Bookstore is a beautifully sad, atmospheric mystery about the tragic events connected to a young man’s suicide.
The murders went unsolved, and Lydia’s survival story turned her into her a national sensation.Fast forward 20 years later, and Lydia has done all she can to bury the past...until Joey, one of the regular “Book Frogs” at Bright Ideas, commits suicide in the bookstore.
In doing so, she is forced to face her own past and remember the night “The Hammerman” wreaked havoc.I went into reading this with little idea about what the story was about.
4.5★I confess to requesting this because what bibliophile can resist a cover with colorful books on it and a title indicating that the pages will turn a story inside an indie bookstore that’s open till midnight.Right?I knew almost nothing going in and did not read the preliminary book notes.
I was kind of expecting a cozy corner book shop tale with lovable, quirky characters and that is exactly what I did not get.
What I got was a decidedly un-cozy tale of suicide, mystery, murder, more mystery, and .
I’m thinking of creating a new shelf on goodreads—Authors To Read Again ASAP.
This is a beautifully written book.
It drew me in from the first few pages.
OMG, I was entranced by writing like that.
I wanted to highlight almost every other sentence, because they were like jewels on the page.
This book is written as an enigma, just like the codes that Joey leaves for Lydia.
He leaves her his meager belongings, mostly his books, with holes cut in the pages.
This book has layers upon layers and goes in a direction I never saw coming.
My thanks to netgalley and Scribner for an advance copy of this book.
I don't get why (view spoiler)[ her and Raj had to be together and couldn't just stay friends, even if the author only hinted at them becoming something more towards the end, I just preferred them as friends especially when what she had with David seemed to be so good  (hide spoiler)].
I really loved Joey and felt for him as well as Lydia's dad, especially Lydia's father because he's such a dork and his life is sad and like oh god.
You see, Lydia and Joey did not know each other as children, thus she has no idea how he would have gotten that photograph.
And thereafter, he does his best to find her.After his death, Lydia finds that Joey left all of his worldly possessions to her, including his books and a new suit.
Lydia needs helping un-coding the message and finding out what Joey wanted from her and that is where Joey’s friend Lyle and her old friend Raj come in.
Traveling Sisters Review by Brenda, Norma and Kaceey.5 Shiny, Sparkling, and Bright stars from all of us!
When we first thought about reading Midnight at the Bright Ideas Bookstore we wanted to read it with Kaceey and Lindsay, however, the timing was not on our side and we ended up only being able to read it with Kaceey.
Midnight at the Bright Ideas Bookstore is an intriguing, dark, clever, and one of the most original and engrossing thrillers we have read.
We could really see that with this book and in this reading experience.Midnight at the Bright Ideas Bookstore is one not to be missed and we highly recommend pushing this one to the top of your list.
A suicide in a book store of a young man with a short but sorry past, a book clerk with a terrifying event in her ownpast, the return of a childhood friend, and a mystery to solve.Hard to classify this one because it mixes many different elements of the mystery genre.
It starts as a puzzle mystery involving books and then turns into an exploration of the past of both the young man and Lydia's past.
Although the book does go back and forth, it does so seamlessly and I was never confused.
A little different from many and I did enjoy this.
That haven from the outside world that offers us a way to bring some of that essence home with us to keep for our very own, and in the case of the Bright Ideas Bookstore in Denver, it offers a special sort of haven for Lydia’s BookFrogs, those patrons who come and settle in, read, on a daily basis.
And on this day, at the end of this day, Lydia’s trying to close up Bright Ideas for the night.
Everything Lydia knows about Joey doesn’t amount to very much.
This time around our full Traveling Sisters Review can be found on Brenda's Goodreads Review or on our Sister Blog.
Traveling Sister Read with Brenda & Kaceey!5 Shiny, Sparkling, and Bright Stars!
We had so many theories and ideas thrown out there and only Kaceey guessed correctly this time.
I cannot say enough good things about this novel and would highly recommend it!All of our Traveling Sister Reviews along with Brenda and my reviews can be found on our Sister Blog:https://www.twogirlslostinacouleeread...
4.5A young man named Joey commits suicide in the upper level of The Bright Ideas Bookstore at midnight one evening. Lydia, one of the booksellers who works there is close to many of the "Bookfrogs" the ones who hang around the store and read. Joey has bequeathed Lydia his belongings, as he has no family, including a lot of books that have been cut up to leave messages to her. This is really good, in part a mystery, a little suspense, but also a story of friendship, sacrifice, and it's an emotional read. I loved it!
What a surprise! I expected this to be sort of a cozy mystery type book but it was far from it. At just slightly over 300 pages the story was concise and to the point with excellent pacing. If you enjoy a noir type mystery with fully realized characters and a nod to bibliophiles this is a must read and I highly recommend it.
A mystery that begins with a death in a bookstore?
After Joey's death his possessions are given to Lydia who realizes that he left behind books with strange inscriptions in it.
This is the beginning of the mystery as Lydia devotes herself to finding out more about the puzzle of Joey's death and the reasons behind his early departure.The story is told -mainly- from the point of view of Lydia and her father in alternating timelines, past and present.
The characters surrounding the bookstore are also readers so books are mentioned throughout the story.
When Joey, one of her favorite young patrons, kills himself in the bookstore, Lydia is shaken.
Lydia's search for the truth about the Hammerman and Joey's death kept me guessing.The audiobook was narrated by Madeleine Maby, whom I always love listening to.
She did a wonderful job capturing Lydia's disposition as well as the accents of other female characters, while the male characters were read a bit too slowly.
Still, listening to the audio format was an entertaining experience.Disclosure: I received a copy of this audiobook from the publisher in exchange for an honest review.
This book kept me guessing.
I managed it in two sittings, but if life hadn't done that annoying interrupting thing, it would have been one.
Massive yet still crowded with volumes, Bright Ideas book store is a favorite for many.
Her perfect job changes forever when Joey, Lydia's favorite bookfrog, kills himself in the store.
Turns out that Lydia was his favorite too...
Memories she's kept buried for years are clamoring for her attention, and several people she left behind are choosing this time to reappear.
Her own past is filled with mystery and secrets, just like Joey's.
Lydia’s father ended up working in a prison, and Lydia grew up with her terrors never far from her side.
Her father wouldn’t cross that bridge to protect Lydia from truths that would hurt her.Twenty years later, Lydia is back in Denver and working at the Bright Ideas Bookstore.
She is drawn to find out more about who this young man was – she wants to find some way of finding his family to let them know what had happened.Lydia’s explorations into Joey’s past act on her life like a heavy object dropped on thin ice.
Firstly, despite its cover and cheery title, this is not a cosy mystery.
It is a real honest to goodness mystery with several deaths and some suspense filled moments.
I did enjoy the setting though and sincerely wish there was a bookshop like that within driving distance of my house!The author writes well - nice prose and some great characters especially Joey who really deserved a much better time of things!
The epilogue was sweet.A very readable book as long as you are aware from the start that it is really a mystery set in and around books and not a book about books:)
