https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/226706.If_There_Be_Thorns
Book Review  3+ of 5 stars to If There Be Thorns, the third book in the "Dollanganger" series written in 1981 by V.C. Andrews. After the first two books, I didn't think you could keep the thrills and suspense going in this series, mostly because one family can only endure so much torture over the years. Surprisingly, I actually found I liked a large part of this book; however, it was a bit excessive and drawn out at times. The story, told from the perspective of Cathy and Chris' kids, continue
After the first two books, I didn't think you could keep the thrills and suspense going in this series, mostly because one family can only endure so much torture over the years.
The story, told from the perspective of Cathy and Chris' kids, continues the saga of the torture from a wicked grandmother and mother, combining religious beliefs and family values.
When Cathy and Chris' mom re-enters the picture, you know something bad is gonna go down.
Mostly unrealistic, the books take you on a little jaunt into the wild imaginations of a tortured family who have done nothing but brought on their own destruction.
I'm going to copy and paste this to all of them!!!!
I feel like I have to justify this and all of the other V.
C. Andrews books on my list!!
I read these when I was young and loved them!
My sister and I poured through them- they were obviously trashy for our age (probably the appeal) but mom let us read ANYTHING- as long as we were readung she was ok with it!
And that paied off- because both my sister and I still read for pleasure daily.
You can't beat it!
Hey- and why be a book snob???

Now, meet Bart:Bart is Cathy's younger son, 9 years old & already a sociopath.
Bart's narration is like American Psycho: The Formative Years.Approximate reaction to anything Bart says, ever:The highlight of the book was Cathy's confrontation with her mother & the butler.
Freakin' fabulous.Alas, the 'villains' were lost in the muddle; an evil butler, cougar grandma, & psycho diary lose their luster compared to the immediacy of Bart's unpalatable nastiness.
He's a shining example of someone who needs his spoiled, tantrum-flinging ass smacked to the dirt -- yet none of the other characters are capable of recognizing this simple solution except Jory's austere grandmother (who is awesome in her commanding bitchitude).
My main problem with the book is not so much the storyline, but the fact that the story is told from the perspectives of fourteen-year-old Jory (Cathy's son with Julian) and nine year-old Bart (Cathy's son with Bart Winslow).
It's obvious that the woman is the much hated mother of Chris and Cathy - - and why neither of them figure it out until the end is questionable.
I think the story might have been better served if it had been told from Cathy and Chris' viewpoints, as the previous tales were.
ETA (11/21/16): Buddy Read with Sarah!
ETA (11/23/16): Read Sarah's review here.My re-read of this book was interesting, and not always in a good way.
I think the most flawed part of the book was Bart- I mean the kid was a little shit.
(Honestly why didn't Chris hospitalize him, he's a Dr and should have seen the signs).^^^^Sarah and I the whole entire book in our txts.
LOLI (probably) won't be re-reading this one.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[Original review]Review to come.
Wow...EDIT: This book was cracktastic.
I will be reading the next book soon enough.
This series is so bad it's awesome.
It showed us how everything looks when you're not looking at it through their perspectives, and I know that this book wouldn't have been as good had Catherine continued to tell it ( not just because it wouldn't make sense then either.
Returning to a childhood narration was also great, as we again get to see things through growing, trusting, eyes.
Certainly she would have asked how their "dad" was doing which would have been odd to ask in front of Chris.
She was around in the second book and knew very well of who Chris was, but she continues working with them.
Unlike the first two installments of this tragedy, this volume is told from the point of view of Cathy Dollanganger's two sons, to an eerie effect.
We see from the outside how Cathy struggles with the traumas of her childhood and how PTSD has affected her decision-making abilities.
The other theme of this novel is how family secrets will surface no matter to what lengths people go to hide them.
Though these books aren't offering me much in the way of inspiration for my novels, I'm absolutely captivated and can't wait for the final two books in the series to arrive.
*3.5*Sinceramente no sé como sentirme con respecto al libro. De verdad.Es oscuro de una manera diferente a los otros dos. La familia francamente esta enferma. Mi único rayito de luz es Jory. Cathy yo siempre te voy a apoyar con Chris. BART... Bueno.... maldito niño, ojalá te mueras
Eramos pocos, y parió la abuela.(Nunca mejor dicho)
There is one more book in the series, but i think i will take a break from incest and rape.
The previous book ended with Cathy and Chris's mother ending up in a mental institution, this is how i would picture her Poor thing, well deserved for trying to kill her children.
He may be misunderstood, but at the end of the book, it turns out he is really evil like his great grandfather.
He cares for his family and loves his brother.
But all in all a good book, with interesting turns.
I read through about 70% of this book and finally gave up, feeling my brain starting to daze and hurt, like I was having a mental diarrhea from stuffing my face with too much VC Andrews in too short of a time.
I had always suspected that she had a compelling backstory, and it was good to finally know what happened to her.All in all, the first book was good, the second book was a true page-turner, and the third book failed to keep my interest, as much as I hate to give up a book I was so close to finishing.
While the weakest of the original four, it's still worth reading and makes the garden that much more haunting.Bart goes from adorable when he pretends to be cowboys and animals, funny when he hates everything, pitiful when he feels like the loner and sore thumb of the family, to obnoxious when he keep repeating his bad behavior, until finally downright creepy - especially that last page with the potent final paragraph.Jory is the good brother but rather boring.
It makes sense he'd be drawn to dance, but he doesn't stand out much otherwise.Since it's not through Cathy's viewpoint, she and Chris seem a little less real and sympathetic.
After reading the other reviews I was struck by the fact that so many people had commented that they weren’t allowed to read these books or had to hide them from their parents and/or teachers.
I don’t remember my mother ever having a problem with me reading these books, in fact, I’m sure she must have purchased them for me.
I don’t however remember them being quite as scandalous as people are making them out to be.
When I consider it like this I think perhaps now would be the time to reread them, and get lost in the escapism that they offer.
I enjoyed this book and its craziness.
I like that the narration shifted to the two sons because I found Cathy's perspective pretty annoying in the last book.
I love that he's a total psychopath and no ones seems very concerned.
He may or may not have killed multiple animals because they didn't love him enough, he constantly stabs at people with his knife, he hobbles around like an old man; he is a whole lot of crazy, but it's fun because you never know what he's gonna do next.
Como el anterior, ha sido como ver un choque de trenes. Sabes que va al desastre, pero no puedes dejar de mirar. Y sin embargo, no me ha terminado de gustar tanto como el primero, creo que si la autora lo hubiera dejado ahí, era suficiente.
Lo bueno:Hay una sensación de progreso en el personaje de Cathy, quien pasa a un papel secundario en esta entrega de la saga (¡Gracias a Dios!); por otra parte, hay uno que otro aspecto redimible en cómo se reflejan las distintas aristas del amor en la narrativa.Lo malo:Me parece una una novela difícil de leer y de ejecución torpe.
Y bueno, como ya he dicho antes, Cathy es un personaje hermosamente construido, pero terriblemente detestable.
Como todo lo relacionado con el arte, mi apreciación es subjetiva, pero me parece que es una novela que fracasa en cumplir su cometido.
“Por lo visto, los grandes amores eran así; destruían cuando se cruzaba su camino”. “Tiene que haber oscuridad para que se haga la luz”.Ok, no sé por qué estos libros me dan siempre ganas de llorar. Te dejan con ganas de leer el próximo.Bart me tenía en desespero, sin duda ese niño hará más de las suyas...
Estos libros siguen teniendo la capacidad de trumatizarme. Que locura! Increíble como una mala decisión en el pasado puede afectar a generaciones venideras y peor como las personas viven en engañadas y convencidas de que todo estará bien cuando todo se cae por su propio peso.
If There Be Thorns (Dollanganger, #3), V.C. Andrews
Now it is normal to capture young children and abuse them, there are tons of books you can buy on this subject but back in the days this was really quite exiting and you wanted to know more.What I do recall is that even back then I did get annoyed sometimes by the writing so this is not a book I want to re read.By he way I am disgusted by her family That they were so desperate for the money they just pretended to have found tons of books written by the deceased author.
God these books are sick.....
I love it!
The way cathys sons are us like karma...
i read this series about a year ago and the story is still fresh!...
everything that happened keeps your head spinning in circles...
as for the rest of the series, you'll be sorry if you don't finish it as well as continue on with this author.
I know I am ecstatic that I did....
V.C Andrews is one of many favorite authors mostly for the fact that she writes stories that you never want to end....
if you read it let me know what you think :-D
Bart filches his mother's manuscript pages and is enraged to learn the truth about his parents: Cathy and Chris are brother and sister, and his "grandmother" locked them in an attic for years, feeding them poison to gain an inheritance.
Jory is shocked and disgusted, but soon forgives them after he learns of their tragic past.Cathy also discovers the truth about the woman next door when Bart accidentally says that the woman gives him anything he wants and she goes to confront the woman.
The writing here has seriously gone downhill and I think the major reason for that is giving the POV to the offspring of Cathy: a 14 year old and 10 year old (might be off slightly on the ages, but it’s a rough estimation).
Factor in how blind Cathy and Chris are to who their new and mysterious next door neighbor is, and you’ve got the winner for the most oblivious parents ever.
Anywho, back to the writing...I find it bizarre that FITA was written leagues better than this third entry (not that it’s Hemingway or anything), but it felt like this book was rushed without the aid of an editor.
Dear V.C. Andrews,What possessed you to (view spoiler)[not only kill Apple and Clover but to do it in such horrible ways (hide spoiler)] ?You disgust me.Sincerely,MissBeckaGee
As the kids tell it Cathy and stepfather Chris sure are touchy feely, they dance in the living room, sneak off to their bedroom a lot, lock eyes and give each other long and meaningful looks and glow whenever they are together.
Chris and Cathy’s secret gets spilled to the boys, a bunch of bad stuff happens, Cathy and Corrine get kidnapped.
Cathy is still awful, Chris is still a pathetic mangina, Jory is an obnoxious goody goody, Bart is crazy and Corrine is just a third tier character that you don’t really care about.
A good mother should always think ahead, and if Cathy had thought ahead she'd see that it'd create a lot of drama when the boys found out they had two different fathers, etc.Still, though, the book made me feel strongly.
Also, I was a little grossed out by this book, especially when Bart reaches for a handful of the dog's poop and smushes it in his hands because it makes him feel close to his dog.
It makes you wonder if Cathy will be like her mother in yet another way...
Otras cosas destacables son lo ágil de la narración y que, desde un comienzo, sentí que el libro tenía la misma esencia que "Flores En El Ático".En el desarrollo pude apreciar mucho más lo atrapante que era el libro y lo bien que avanzaba el drama, es decir, todo lo contrario al libro anterior.
Otra cosa que hizo que el libro fuera tan difícil de soltar fue (view spoiler)[cuando Jory y Bart se empezaron a enterar de los secretos de sus padres.
Además me pareció muy maduro por parte de Cathy que, al final, terminara perdonándola (hide spoiler)].
Çocuklar büyüyor ve Joel'di sanırım o amcanın adı, öyle sinir bozucu pis bir adam dadanıyor ki hayatlarına neredeyse ilk kitaptaki kötü karakterleri özledim öyle bir şey. En nefret ettiğim kitabı ama tabi ki sonu görmeliydim. Yaşam enerjimin soğurulduğu nadide kitaplardan, çünkü yazar psikopat...
Gripping addition to this controversial series; I really wasn't expecting to hear of the creepy butler again and this book paints a darkly vibrant picture with its vocabulary, characters and imagery.
