https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36098092-florida
The truth might be moral, but it isn't always right. Snakes, gators, swamps and storms form the backdrop of these exquisitely human stories.I have to say I enjoyed Florida so much more than Fates and Furies. Groff's writing style is dense and wordy, metaphorical and poetic and - sometimes - exhausting. Reading her full-length novel was a chore, but for me at least, Groff seems born to write short stories. Small, hard-hitting snippets of lives that still make you feel emotionally-drained, but al
Snakes, gators, swamps and storms form the backdrop of these exquisitely human stories.I have to say I enjoyed Florida so much more than Fates and Furies.
Reading her full-length novel was a chore, but for me at least, Groff seems born to write short stories.
Small, hard-hitting snippets of lives that still make you feel emotionally-drained, but also thoughtful and satisfied.The natural wonders and dangers of Florida play into almost all these stories.
It's amazing how much you can learn just by watching people.For the most part, the stories seem to be narrating a series of events in intricate detail, observing nature and moments between people.
3+ starsI loved Lauren Groff’s Fates and Furies.
So I was pretty excited to get my hands on Florida, which is Groff’s latest short story collection.
Unfortunately, I can’t rave about the stories in the same way I raved about Fates and Furies.
Most of the stories focused on women, often with young children, often in Florida, often with distant husbands, often dark, and all struggling with internal personal turmoil.
Some stories were definitely better than others.
There’s a creepy story about two young girls left alone on an island.
But, overall, these stories didn’t have me particularly excited.
My full review, as well as my other thoughts on reading, can be found on my blog.A collection of eleven short stories set mostly in the titular state, Florida examines the inner lives of young women and mothers afflicted by malaise, alcoholism, and, occasionally, despair.
Groff writes lush sentences, full of palpable and unsettling images, and her stories move at a measured pace.
Sometimes the stories felt scattered in focus, and occasionally I wished they would have ended on more definitive notes.
Favorite stories included "Ghost and Empties," "Above and Below," and "Yport."
I would have liked there to be more variety in their deepest flaws because as it is the fixation on (often overweight) bodies feels unkind and unnecessary.Lauren Groff is in perfect command of her language; her sentences are sharp in the way that I like them to be in realistic short fiction (comparisons to Roxane Gay came to mind here and that is obviously one of the highest compliments I can give a short story writer).
I don't think Lauren Groff likes Florida very much!Here's what I took away from this collection:Florida is mold, feral cats, snakes, bugs, humidity, rot, spanish moss, vines, gators, sinkholes, homelessness, tent cities, termites, mosquitos, hurricanes, lizards, panthers, "a damp and dense tangle," bleaching sun, dread and heatMotherhood is something to be deeply conflicted about.
When lonely, drink heavily.Men are predatory scum, rapists, abusive, devious, self-involved OR tender and kind fathers/husbands OR any combination of the above - yet another thing to be deeply conflicted about.Global warming / climate change is something to obsess about on a daily basis.
Florida, flat as a pancake, with hurricanes- alligators- and snakes - sticky hot, I miss the mountains and redwoods whenever I visit.
Lauren Groff got me with these short stories..I didn’t expect much.
I kinda fell in love with Lauren and her stories in Florida.I’m not jumping her fan band wagon just yet...but I felt something in these stories that was missing for me in ‘Furies’.
In fact - I’d love to - want to.Lauren’s stories - spin on words - creative gorgeous sentences moved me.
I experienced ‘all-that’s-wrong- with-the-world-funneled through mothers in Florida....through their anger & vulnerability...
From the woman who goes running to escape – her husband, her kids, the nightly chores of bath and bed (or maybe life itself) – to the woman who takes her two little boys to France to escape Florida, with its storms, snakes and deadly creatures in the dark.
How dispiriting, to learn this of herself.”Dispirited is how I felt most of the time while reading this, and annoyed, because it is obvious to me that this is someone whose writing I’d enjoy, but not about women like this who all seem to be slightly different but equally miserable versions of each other.
Two major, connected threads in this superb story collection are ambivalence about Florida, and ambivalence about motherhood. There’s an oppressive atmosphere throughout, with environmental catastrophe an underlying threat. Set-ups vary in scope from almost the whole span of a life to one scene. A dearth of named characters emphasizes just how universal the scenarios and emotions are. Groff’s style is like a cross between Karen Russell’s  Swamplandia!  and Cormac McCarthy’s The Road, and her une
and Cormac McCarthy’s The Road, and her unexpected turns of phrase jump off the page.The narrator of “The Midnight Zone,” staying with her sons in a hunting camp 20 miles from civilization, ponders the cruelty of time and her failure to be sufficiently maternal, while the woman in “Flower Hunters” is so lost in an eighteenth-century naturalist’s book that she forgets to get Halloween costumes for her kids.
A few favorites of mine were “Ghosts and Empties,” in which the narrator goes for long walks at twilight and watches time passing through the unwitting tableaux of the neighbors’ windows; “Eyewall,” a matter-of-fact ghost story; and “Above and Below,” in which a woman slips into homelessness – it’s terrifying how precarious her life is at every step.Florida feels innovative and terrifyingly relevant.
If these stories are anything to go by Lauren Groff is almost comprehensively disillusioned with men.
Groff's Florida is teeming with aligators, snakes, wild cats, bears.
There's a constant sense - the pollution and corruption everywhere, the wild weather - that Armageddon isn't far away.
I wonder if there exists a collection of short stories by anyone (Chekhov?) where the quality is maintained throughout.
A better trick would be to insert the worst stories in the middle and end with a cracker.
After all, you expect a little tension to disappear in the middle of the novel but if it ends well you forget.
These stories feel to me like a continuation of St Lucy's Home for Girls Raised by Wolves by Karen Russell (high praise from me as this remains my favorite short story collection), where Florida remains wild and unsettling and the people managing to live there have some of the same traits. There are also themes of missing parents, negligent/tired mothers, excessive drinking and other escapes, and infidelities that seem tucked away between paragraphs for the careful reader to notice and connect. I'm almost glad the temperature here is approaching 90 with high humidity because it matched the reading experience!
At its best, the short stories in Groff's new collection read like rough studies of Carson McCullers.
CHEESES?!?!"My rebelliousness at the time was like a sticky fog..."And then my mind goes blank.
A light bulb is not an egg and a woman is not a chicken, LAUREN.Most of these garbled metaphors occur in the stories narrated by the only recurring character, a suburban housewife experiencing general ennui and who seems to not know where the fuck she is 90% of the time.
She obviously had something specific in mind for this book, and she probably could've achieved that if it wasn't for the crazy number of stories (thirteen in under 300 pages).
I’ve never visited Florida, but I do live in a similar climate so this setting, while foreign, felt more familiar than exotic to me. The heat and humidity, lush foliage, abundant wildlife mainly of the pointy-toothed kind, houses built on stumps with ceiling fans and sleepouts in concession to the weather – all are recognisable and skilfully evoked here. Groff’s prose style is impeccable, yet it seems so effortless.Several of the stories in  Florida  toy with the creeping fear that arises when w
Groff’s characters behave in similar ways even when the locale changes (one story is set in Brazil, two in France), and it’s hard sometimes not to feel like these are all variations on the same woman, suffocating slowly on her own life.Generally, I prefer when authors use the short story format as an opportunity to take risks, to play with the form and ideas in ways that couldn’t sustain a longer book.
The stories should feel fully-formed and self-contained, not like a sample chapter or the embryonic beginnings of a novel-that-never-was.
In the intervening years, she has come to love the state and all its weirdness, and even gave it the top acknowledgement for this, her excellent book of short stories.
She knows she is a short story writer, having entered Amherst as an aspiring poet and having the intelligence to recognize that wasn't the path for her.
I've said in other reviews that when collections of short stories are good, they are hard work for a reader since it is like reading an entire shelf of well thought-out books, requiring more effort than say a 300 page novel.
This book solidly places Lauren Groff as an author I must read.
Short stories are really hard for me.
I appreciate her lens onto a few synapses of Florida life and Florida as a place.
A few of the stories are stronger than others- the sisters trapped on an island, the couples drinking champagne and sharing secrets, and the panther in the wilderness.If you are one that enjoys short stories, this book should go at the top of your list.
If you are not a fan of short stories, this collection is sincerely worthwhile.
I really liked this collection!
As a Florida boy, I had high expectations and Groff met them and surpassed them.
This collection is filled with a palpable sense of danger lurking around every corner in the natural world.
There’s also a strong thread of existential panic over global warming, which is quite appropriate for a book that takes as it’s subject Florida, a state with much to lose as sea levels rise and the climate warms.If you liked this, make sure to follow me on Goodreads for more reviews!
I can't remember the last time a collection made me feel that way.Like many of my favorite collections, these stories have similarities and themes that weave them together, while also standing apart independently as perfect little slices of story.
Perhaps it is the right book for me in this moment, many of these stories are about women who have comfortable lives and yet there is a thrum of a threat all around them, a feeling that violence or loss could strike immediately, or that a slow unsuspecting death could sneak in without anyone realizing it.
“Ghosts and Empties”  3 stars “At the Round Earth’s Imagined Corners”  3 stars “Dogs Go Wolf”  2 stars “The Midnight Zone”  2 stars “Eyewall”  2 stars “For the God of Love, for the Love of God”  2.5 stars “Salvador”  2.5 stars “Flower Hunters”  2 stars “Above and Below”  2 stars “Snake Stories”  2 stars “Yport”  4 stars Each story is slowly smothered by the overwritten prose, characters burdened with the most random thoughts and vaguest gestures. You might be spying on strangers and making up th
4 stars
4 stars
4 stars
4 stars
4 stars
4 stars
4 stars
4 stars
4 stars
4 stars
4 stars
Each story is slowly smothered by the overwritten prose, characters burdened with the most random thoughts and vaguest gestures.
You might be spying on strangers and making up their stories from the snippets overheard, only to find out they’re going nowhere in particular...
I’ve always considered enumerations redundant, especially in short stories.
Some of the images and metaphors made me cringe, while the structure of the stories didn’t help either.
2.5ish stars
The lives of the women in these stories are as sluggish and stifling as a Florida summer. The weather, wildlife, and land of Florida plays a huge part in these stories, and in many cases seems to serve as a metaphor for their lives. Groff’s stories skillfully capture the ennui that can infect middle class motherhood, while still also highlighting the joys. NBA longlisted for fiction, I hope it makes the short list.
Unfortunately, this book is going to be placed upon my DNF shelf. I absolutely loved Lauren Groff's Fates and Furies a five star read and more for me. However, this collection of short stories is doing nothing for me. The writing is wonderful but the characters and I are not making any connection at all and that makes the book drag for me. So sorry to say I will stop at the 30% mark. Perhaps someday I will go back to it.
4.5 starsThe writing is brilliant - slow, atmospheric, dark, vulnerable characters and has themes of loneliness, grief and loss. The book is a delight from start to the end. If you enjoy stories for their quality of narration and not necessarily look for a definitive ending, this one's for you. An excellent short story collection of 2018
This book doesn't bother with quotation marks, and it's full of snakes. I hate both of those things. Yet here I am, giving it 5 stars. Enough said.
The coherence in these stories lies in their ability to unnerve you; to make you feel like the ground you stand on could crack and disintegrate under your feet at any moment, and that life as you know it - the everyday - is hanging by a very thin and fragile thread.There are a wealth of characters here: a mother on her nightly walks around her neighborhood looks in on her neighbors, trying to keep a cap on her anger and frustration for the sake of her family (“I have somehow become a woman who yells”); two young children abandoned on a small fishing island, alone and fending for themselves; a mother vacationing in a remote cabin, her children looking after her with tenderness when she is concussed while changing a light bulb, waiting for her husband to return; a woman taking refuge from a hurricane; a graduate, recently evicted, living out of her car, learning the real meaning of true wealth.
The final story in this collection, Yport, was included in Granta 139: Best of Young American Novelists 3 which I read several months ago, but that didn’t help me much because it has been so majorly re-worked by the time it gets into this collection that it is almost a new piece (same basic story, but significantly edited): I was comparing the two for the first few paragraphs, but the changes are so numerous and significant that I gave up and I'm not sure how much the versions diverged in the end.The state of Florida is the unifying element in all the stories presented here, although this doesn’t mean that all the stories are set in Florida, simply that all the protagonists have a connection with the place.
Basically, every narrator is Lauren Groff.
She scorns plastic, fat Americans, and the very character of Florida.
It's as if they feel the need to weirdly exalt the less fortunate (who themselves wish they could achieve security) and scorn the privileged in order to make up for their own easy lives and cement their liberal street cred.The same self-conscious affectedness was at play in her descriptions of Florida.
If she focused more on telling a good story and less on trying to force political self-righteousness into everything, I would gladly give her books another try.
This is such an excellent collection of short stories.
The words and images are so sparkly and perfect they seem to almost glow in the dark.
Groff creates an ethereal otherworldly realm with swans whose hearts break, mothers who inhabit panthers, houses that possess their inhabitants and girls who live like dogs that need to be wolves.
And this strange, beautiful tangled land is named Florida.
Each word is as delicate and luminous as an egg hatched from a mythical bird.
My favourite book by Groff so far.
I loved this book so much that I think I want to reread it. Some of the stories hearken back to Groff's Arcadia (my previous favorite of her books), and others chart new territory entirely. The stories themselves are both domestic and exotic, and they are deeply rooted in the state I love. I'm so used to reading literary fiction that's very New York-centric, so it was both delightful and strange to recognize the city where I was born (Gainesville) as the setting for many of these stories.
Generally, a beautifully written collection, but the last story  Yport  is a stunning, brilliant feat of storytelling worth the price of the whole book.
Amo follemente lo stile di Lauren Groff, penso che tra gli autori contemporanei sia la mia preferita, quando la leggo penso “vorrei vedere anch’io il mondo come lo vede lei”, non c’è una frase scontata, una metafora o un termine che non ami nelle sue storie, è uno stile “che rimane addosso” fatto di luci ed ombre, di impressioni, che incide la superficie della realtà per ribaltarla e descriverla con una più bella, poetica, chiave di lettura.
Quindi questa raccolta di racconti ha il grande merito di avere uno stile assolutamente impeccabile, ma non solo: siamo in Florida, una terra di pazzi, folle, acerba, fitta di pericoli, in questo mondo civilizzato e globalizzato, asettico, fatto di cemento può ancora esistere il terrore primordiale?
Maybe since I’m a Floridian this books makes me defensive, but damn I swear Florida is not as scary and depressing as Groff makes it out to be!
Lauren Groff is an author who I really can’t pinpoint why she isn’t a favorite. All of the elements are there, sharp insights, lovely prose, compelling plot, so why does it always fall a little flat for me? I did like these stories, that are linked more by melancholy and themes of isolation and dread than they are by place, but I wanted to love them. I will love a book by her one day, but we aren’t quite there yet.
