https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/550726.Above_Suspicion
I should have given her a chance earlier; this was pretty compelling reading.Above Suspicion, published in 1941 and set in 1939, on the eve of World War II, is about a young British couple, Richard Myles, an Oxford don, and his wife Frances, who are approached by one of their friends, Peter Galt, who's been involved in anti-Nazi espionage.
Peter asks Richard and Frances to go through the various levels of contact required to find out what's become of their man, hoping that they'll succeed because they're intelligent but unconnected to the espionage organization - thus (hopefully) they'll be above suspicion to the Germans.
The couple are earnest and willing (if not exactly eager) to do their small part in facing down the Nazi threat that's looming over Europe.It's standard, retro-classic spy fare from chapter two onward, as Richard and Frances travel to Paris, then Germany, then Austria.
I really admire them for being winded enough, (and sober enough) to tackle all the mountain hiking trails - not to mention those rascally Nazis.Eye-rolling coincidences abound throughout the novel, with secondary characters met originally in England or Paris magically re-appearing later in small towns in Germany and Austria.
Like the characters in this novel, both her and her husband spoke fluent German and spent their summers travelling in Europe.
As you can tell, you are in safe hands for a realistic novel about Europe in 1939, which is where Above Suspicion is set.Frances Myles lives with her Professor husband Richard in Oxford.
An agent who has been running an underground railway in Germany has stopped sending the normal messages and they are afraid he has been captured or compromised and they are hoping that "a couple of innocents abroad might be able to get through all suspicion."Richard is happy to go, but does not want Frances involved.
The couple is chosen because they are innocent-seeming and may fly under the radar of the Gestapo and its agents.(view spoiler)[They don’t succeed for more than a nanosecond in evading scrutiny, naturally, and have a series of narrow escapes and hair-raising adventures on their way to fulfilling their mission.
(view spoiler)[If he was holding a prisoner in the Tyrol with only one thug to assist him, how did he have time and liberty to rush off to England for a day, simply so he could meet up with the innocent couple and introduce himself?
(For example, the two main characters do a lot of mountain climbing, while pausing frequently for cigarette breaks.) A young English couple from Oxford are asked to travel through Europe on a spy mission in the summer of 1939, just before the start of World War Two. Although the wife Frances is both intelligent and courageous, all the male characters including her husband persist in treating her as if she were made of glass, which I assume was a common attitude toward women back then.
I did enjoy their romp through Europe (I googled Persitau, Austria and now I want to go there -- it's a gorgeous little town.) On the darker side, the book gave a chilling impression of the Nazi presence and the tension that gripped Europe just before the war began.
More of a 3.5 & not really my sort of book. The heroic couple was very true to life & the snapshot of Europe just prior to WWII was really interesting, though. This is an atmosphere read although there's plenty of action toward the end. Definitely a well written spy thriller of the old school like John le Carré.
It was the weekend after the terrorist atrocities in Paris, and the parallels between the events and thoughts and fears described in the book - and that terrible event in Paris resonated for me in a way that might not happened if I had read it at a different time.
The story of the married, academic couple who are enticed to do a bit of spying as they go on their usual summer holiday in Europe - is also an opportunity to examine the strange and almost inexplicable thinking which permeated Nazi actions in Germany and France prior to, and during WW2.
A tale of espionage in Nazi Europe, it was an immediate success, widely praised for its suspense and humor, and it was made into a motion picture in 1943. MacInnes first book.
The first of MacInnes's 18 or so novels with European settings which move from the Nazi era and the dawn of WWII, through the rise of Communism and the Cold War.MacInnes's writing is rich with sensory details: the feel of rough felt hats, the cool, clear mountain air, the bruised and aching feet from hiking in the Alps, the smell of burning wool carpet singed by candle flame, the grime on an old book in a dusty bookstore.
Set in the summer of 1939 (and published in 1941), the story's sense of impending doom really ratchets up the suspense.
Our amateurs are an English couple: Richard Myles, an Oxford professor, and Frances, his lovely wife.
Fortunately our intrepid couple make a few new friends and get unexpected help from a few old ones.The number one bad guy was not a real surprise; the coincidences were rather thick on the ground, but not to the point of reader incredulity.
Richard was very likable, though these modern eyes found him to be a tad patronizing towards his wife.
Although this novel was very good, it was up to her continuing output of espionage works to develop and maintain her presence in this genre.
In this work, she featured a young married couple from the London area who were recruited in providing help with the acquisition of information related to the forming Nazi movement while they were on their annual vacation in Europe.
We get to follow this young couple around Europe, and to share with them their personal opinions of the development of the German third Reich.
This novel was a fine beginning for MacInnes who went on to become a standard in the espionage genre.
On the eve of the second world war, an English couple, Frances and Richard Myles are asked to travel to Europe.
Frances and Richard are amateurs but are obliged to pit their wits against some very unpleasant individuals.I thought that this was a nicely atmospheric thriller.
The rising tension in Europe with the rise of the Nazi was well portrayed, and the air of unease and uncertainty added to the tension and fear that is now known of that time in history.It's not a violent book as a lot of thrillers are.
I LOVED this book.
The characters are interesting and the plot rolls right along and her writing and descriptions are very good.
This is her first novel, and it's a sort of suspense thriller but really what it is, is kind of a portrait of the world after the Nazis have invaded czechoslovakia but before they've annexed poland.
It is a very interesting description of Germany at that period, when Nazis are marching through town, everyone is terrified and the rest of the world is trying to decide whether it's time to intervene.
This is Helen MacInnes' first book, written in 1941.
The book takes place in 1939, so the events are raw for the author I would say.
The events take place in the summer of 1939, while Europe is waiting for the other shoe to drop that will surely bring war.
Their friend is convinced that they will have no problems because they are so "innocent" looking, and they had plans to be in Europe anyway.
I like MacInnes' books, because they are atmospheric and the ones I've read, a light read.
An interesting early spy novel, published in 1941 and taking place in 1939 just before the war started. A young British couple are recruited to make contact with a missing spy while taking their usual summer vacation on the continent. The pacing is occasionally clunky and there are other stylistic choices that show their age, but I found it fascinating to read what seems to be a historical thriller but was written in the thick of the action, so to speak.
In 1939, when Oxford professor Richard Myles and his wife Frances receive a visit from their good friend Peter Galt, they find themselves faced with a surprising request.
The stoically determined Richard and infinitely courageous Frances agree to the scheme, resulting in a full-blown adventure which will take them across Europe and under the nose of Nazi enemies.
MacInnes was lauded for her ability as a master of the spy genre, and the significance of her talent still resounds today; through the passage of time, Above Suspicion maintains its high-energy level of entertainment while its wit and intellect continue to shine.
It leans heavily on the tradition of the fast-paced world of Richard Hannay, and in many ways made me think of ‘Greenmantle’ though it lacks John Buchan’s beautiful prose.
Richard Myles, and Oxford academic, and his wife Frances are commissioned by an old friend to spend their annual summer vacation travelling across Europe, moving from convoluted arrangements to meet one agent after another, until they can finally contact the lynchpin in the network who will, it is hoped, have some vital information to pass on to them.Over the last fifty years or so, the espionage novel has undergone a major evolution.
I suspect that Helen MacInnes was always harking back to the values and literary tastes of a former and more favourable day.
It feels like I just read the book that inspired all of Alan Furst's World War II thrillers, and this is how it's done.
This was MacInnes's first book, published in 1941 - during the war - and clearly has more than a bit of autobiography in it.
The main characters are a young married couple, Oxford academics who pay for their summers hiking in Europe, Alps, etc by translating German poetry and writing book reviews, etc on the side.
I found that the characters, being academics deeply involved with German literature, music, etc, made a couple references to things the husband and wife both knew but that I had to look up.
Soon the couple is forced to race across Europe ans must use all of their ingenuity to outsmart the shadowy figures that always seem to be on their tail.Above Suspicion by Helen MacInnes is a fun book to read, though there are of course a few things about it that may seem predictable.
Written exceptionally well, Helen MacInnes have often been overlooked or forgotten, because her books are somewhat dated, yet there’s something wholesome about her writing.
For as much as I enjoy spy movies and some modern spy books, I am woefully underread on the classics of the genre.
I suppose I should just dive in from there, right?I'll say this much, first: I got to read the reissued version that Titan Books is putting out, and it's a pretty impressive tome.
It's a story that dives in within 10 pages, and generally doesn't stop until the very end.If I have some downsides to it, it's that the book does feel a little long (which may just be a relic of the time), even if it moves pretty quickly.
Set just before World War II, it begins when Frances and Richard Myles’ old friend stops in at his office to ask if the couple would combine their vacation with a very simple job: Track down an agent gone silent and find out if he’s still alive.
They’re not really going to get involved in anything.The trouble is, this is pre-war Europe, nothing is simple, and everyone is involved, whether they plan on it or not.Above Suspicion is an unmistakably British book, the kind where the characters retain their essential quiet at all times: The heroine may have one very quiet bout of hysterics during which she “shakes uncontrollably” or sobs quietly into a hanky for a few minutes, but no more....Don’t read if you want constant, edge-of-the-seat action and gunfire.
In the summer of 1939, Oxford don Richard Myles and his wife Frances are trying to decide whether to give up their usual summer vacation hiking in the Alps because of the threatening war conditions when they are visited by an old friend who asks a special favor of them.
A source of information to British Intelligence has apparently had a broken link in its chain and needs to be investigated.
The Myles’ friend says that they would be “above suspicion” because they were well known in the area from previous vacations.
On the eve of the Second World War, an Oxford don and his wife are asked to take part in a little low-risk espionage during their annual summer holiday in Europe.
Needless to say, it doesn't turn out to be that little, or that low-risk.
Wikipedia tells me that the holidaying couple are based on MacInnes herself and her husband, who was an Oxford classicist and MI6 agent (classicists are awesome BTW).Heroes and villains are very black and white, there's a lot of what is today called head-hopping (although I rather like seeing all the characters' thoughts), and Frances does a few stupid-woman things that make you want to shout at her, or the author.
Helen MacInnes has long been considered one of the best writers of spy~adventure~thriller books and after a reread of Above Suspicion, I find that to still be true.
Today's readers may find her books 'dated' or 'vintage', but knowing that Ms MacInnes' books were written during or just after the events depicted, that she had personal knowledge of the areas the events and the time in which they were written and that her husband was a member of Britian's MI6, I prefer to think of them as 'authentic'.
Ms MacInnes' books have recently been rereleased and are also available on kindle so hopefully a new generation of readers will find and appreciate her stories.

I dipped into my early mystery reading with a reread of MacInnes's spy novel.
But, still a good read with a couple of believable protagonists.
Prewar stirrings, Nazis, intrigue, Germans falling for Hitler's rhetoric -- all of it in one package with an Oxford academic and his wife working to find a missing spy because, as a couple traveling during the summer as per their usual habit, they would be "above suspicion" and perhaps more successful than the professionals had been.
It's fun to have her read some of the books that turned me into an avid British mystery fan.
Helen MacInnes was quite a Cold warrior in her day, but her political views don't get in the way of my enjoyment of these books. This, the best and most suspenseful of them all, is one of her earliest. It has a WWII setting; quite a thrilling chase through Germany as a young, untrained British couple take on a difficult espionage assignment. Interestingly, most of the protagonists in her books (not this one) are men. We see the action through their perspectives, including their views on women.I also love one of her only non-thrillers, a romance, Friends and Lovers.
Not my most favorite MacInnes novel, but I love the way she creates the feel of Nazi terror. It is amazing how people just let themselves be overcome by the Nazi regime. It happened slowly and pretty soon, they were convinced that the Nazi leaders were right or at the very least that it wasn't worth putting up a fight. That hidden terror is woven through the novel and at times felt very palpable. This was a re-read and it is amazing how differently I see the novel now.
It took me a while to get into this story, but the action really picks up at around page 165. Then it's a real page turner. A British couple is sent on an assignment to Europe just before WWII breaks out. They get entangled with the Nazis. Published in 1941, MacInnes seemed to be promoting the involvement of both England and the United States in the conflict.
Standard, somewhat cliche spy saga taking place in 1939 Germany. Interesting from today's perspective knowing what we know now. Actually, MacInnes' spot-on assessment of the situation in Nazi Germany at the time was astounding, given that U.S. involvement in the war was two years' away. The story moves along like a Hitchcock thriller, but is predictable for all that.
