https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31866.A_History_of_Philosophy_Vol_1
A History of Philosophy Volume 1: Greece and Rome, From the Pre-Socratics to Plotinus (A History of Philosophy #1), Frederick Charles Copleston تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز پانزدهم ماه جولای سال 2009 میلادیعنوان: تاریخ فلسفه جلد اول : یونان و روم؛ نویسنده: فردریک کاپلستن؛ مترجم: جلال الدین مجتبوی؛ تهران، وزارت فرهنگ و آموزش عالی، انتشارات علمی فرهنگی، 1363، در یک جلد؛ چاپ دیگر انتشارات سروش در نه جلد؛ به شرح: جلد یک: یونان و روم ؛ مترجم: جلالالدین مجتبوی. جلد دوم: قرون وسطی ؛ مترجم: ابراهیم دادجو.؛ ج
A History of Philosophy Volume 1: Greece and Rome, From the Pre-Socratics to Plotinus (A History of Philosophy #1), Frederick Charles Copleston تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز پانزدهم ماه جولای سال 2009 میلادیعنوان: تاریخ فلسفه جلد اول : یونان و روم؛ نویسنده: فردریک کاپلستن؛ مترجم: جلال الدین مجتبوی؛ تهران، وزارت فرهنگ و آموزش عالی، انتشارات علمی فرهنگی، 1363، در یک جلد؛ چاپ دیگر انتشارات سروش در نه جلد؛ به شرح: جلد یک: ی‍ون‍ان‌ و روم‌ ؛ مت‍رج‍م‍: ج‍لال‌ال‍دی‍ن‌ م‍ج‍ت‍ب‍وی‌.
جلد هشتم: از ب‍ن‍ت‍ام‌ ت‍ا راس‍ل‌، مت‍رج‍م‍: ب‍ه‍اءال‍دی‍ن‌ خ‍رم‍ش‍اه‍ی‌.؛ جلد نهم: م‍ن‌ دوب‍ی‍ران‌ ت‍ا س‍ارت‍ر ؛ مت‍رج‍م‍: ع‍ب‍دال‍ح‍س‍ی‍ن‌ آذرن‍گ‌، م‍ح‍م‍ود ی‍وس‍ف‌ ث‍ان‍ی‌ .؛ چاپ دوم 1368؛ چاپ هفتم 1387؛ شابک جلد نخست: 9789644457982؛ ا.
The next two volumes of course are on mediaeval, mainly Catholic philosophy, which is Copleston's forte and which is never treated sufficiently in more secular histories, while by the time he got to modern philosophy he was consciously writing for a largely non-Catholic audience.
While taken as a whole, Copleston's history is probably still one of the best (at least in comprehensiveness and refusal to oversimplify), this particular volume is not the best part of his history or the best work on the history of Greek philosophy -- I would have to nominate W.K.C. Guthrie's multi-volume History of Greek Philosophy for that -- and there are many better books on specific tendencies or philosophers.
Well written, extensive and informative, objective and respectful, systematic and complete. The best history of philosophy anyone could ask for, across all both general and specific overviews I'm aware of. Thanks to the anon who shat on Russel and recommend this as an alternative.
پنج ستارهاین کتاب برای آشنایی مقدماتی با آرای فلاسفه ی باستان بسیار مناسب است و منظری کلی و روشنگرانه درباره ی آنها پیش چشم خواننده ترسیم می کند، گاهی نویسنده روی جزئئیاتی حساس می شود و ممکن است خواننده را گیج و خسته کند چرا که فهمیدنش ملزوم دانستن یکسری اصطلاحات فلسفی است
By the spring of eighty I'd been out of school for almost two years.
Indeed, only the spur of school, of being assured readers and intelligent criticism, had ever inspired me to write seriously since childhood.
Although the threshold to writing was high, I'd learned to enjoy crossing it and missed the inspiration and opportunities school afforded.
Working ten hour shifts was simply not compatible.Thus far my academic training had led me from general liberal arts to history, to ancient history and textual criticism on the one hand while leading me to the same result through the study of continental depth psychology on the other.
One of the best introductions to ancient Greek philosophy out there.
Like many texts published a half century or longer ago Coplestone consistently leaves Greek and Latin phrases that he quotes (even at some considerable length) untranslated.
For modern readers like myself, this only serves as a reminder of how far downhill our educational standards have gone -- we don't know ancient Greek and/or Latin anymore!
2. Coplestone's choice of verbiage is often far more dense and complicated than it has to be.
Those two criticisms aside, the book is a great over all and well laid out in its presentation.
Great learning experience!
This series is probably the best general overview of the history of philosophy currently available. The prose can be somewhat dry and technical, but this is to be expected. Volume One is best read with greek/english and latin/english dictionaries close at hand.
From where I am standing, namely an amateur philosophy student, nothing looks improvable in this volume.It was a long and tedious read and I can safely say that philosophy remains out of my reading plans for a few months to come.
I also do not know whether I can stand a 600-pages-long history of almost entirely Christian philosophy, which happens to be content of the second volume.
In any case, every single volume of the series, including the second, is in my to-read list for now.
he uses general views on the issue under focus to get to the specifics. He turns the disadvantage of his believes effecting on his writings as a mean to make the text fluent but I have to admit it's a bit dry and sometimes his beliefs are overly stressed in statements he made but overall it’s a good reading of history of Philosophy.
This book is too biased. I didn't even finish reading the first chapter. In the introduction he even bashes biased historians. Poo poo, I was very excited to pick this up as well.
The late Dr. Copleston's mammoth nine volume work is a momentous achievement. I look forward to the next eight volumes (which run to the late 1940's and John Paul Sartre) but for many, his History will frustrate. Copleston (like Kenny) sometimes "geeks out" so much over a particular philosopher that he adds too much for the student and other times he quotes directly from Greek and Latin sources, without translating them and this will also frustrate beginners. Still, it is a historic accomplishment.
اهالی فرهنگ ایران به هیچ وجه قابل اعتماد نیستن و بهتره متن انگلیسی و ترجمه ی فارسی با هم خوونده بشن. برای کسی که نمی تونه متن اصلی رو مثل من به تنهایی بخوونه و بفهمه.

I think that I was able to understand most of what he wrote about most of the authors – especially the key points about Plato and Aristotle – but Copleston assumes a knowledge of Greek and Latin in his readers, and as a result sometimes there will be words, passages, and entire paragraphs that are almost entirely incomprehensible.
This was especially a problem when dealing with Aristotle's various classifications (provided all in untranslated Greek), and especially the Latin Stoics, where Copleston, rather than summing up their thought in English, often provided a paragraph-length Latin block quotation from e.g. Seneca or Lucretius which he felt illustrated his point more artfully than could be reconstructed in English.
I wanted to give myself a little leg up before starting an MA in Philosophy in another language.
I've never studied philosophy before (unless you count reading http://existentialcomics.com/) and since I'm a Jesuit and this was in our house library I thought I'd give it a shot on my own.
I just thought to myself as I reread tough passages "Periods can be your friends brother.
If you have a background in philosophy and/or classical languages, this is the book for you.
Barring that, it's not the most accessible book.
This work gives a comprehensive summary of Western philosophy from the early Ionian thinkers to Plotinian Neo-Platonism.
I was particularly enriched by Copleston's extensive treatment of Plato and Aristotle.
Aristotelian and Platonic epistemology, metaphysics, psychology, ethics, politics and aesthetics were all summarized in a very able fashion by the author.
My favourite chapter was perhaps Copleston's interesting treatment of Plato's theory of Forms.
The author's frequent usage of untranslated Greek and Latin passages only adds to the work's complexity.
Copleston concludes with a helpful summary which plausibly sets forth the thesis that many facets of ancient Greek philosophy served as a kind of preparatio evangelica for Christianity.

I was looking for an introduction to philosophy and found this set being tossed at the local library.I actually had two sets to choose from and I chose Copleston's.
was for after the name and found out hewas the main man to teach philosophy to Catholic priests.
After endless pages of Christian cant and obtuse verbiage I actuallydid learn something,I picked the wrong set.
I do commend his scholarship and I will keep the set.
I am now sloggingmy way through volume V, Hobbes to Hume, starting to see more philosophy and less theology.
A decent overview of Pre-Socractic philosophy, and a good look at Plato's theories.Filled with a handful of linguistic and mental high-fives and boos at philosophical ideas that step, respectively, toward or away from Catholicism, this history is more so for those intending to or already participating in Catholic philosophy and education (which is the intent of the author), and not a general, anthropological overview of the ideas and thinkers. [I own the two part collection of Greece & Rome, so I technically have only read the first half]
A great introduction to philosophy. Copleston divides the book into Pre-Socratics, Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, and Post-Aristotelianism through the early Medieval period. He does tend to spend a lot of time on Plato and Aristotle, but as they were the preeminent philosophers of the day, it is not surprising. I don't particularly like the large amount of Greek and Latin terminology and quotations. He wrote this for Catholic priests who had a training in classical languages, something the layman usually lacks. This could be easily remedied with a newer addition and footnotes.
ES un relato histórico ameno y detallado, para el lector actual las discusiones sobre el ser o no ser, el movimiento, etc suenan un tanto bizantinas, pero al fin y al cabo son los pilares de nuestra cultura. la pleyade de nombres que aparecen y que en ocasiones son absolutamente desconocidas enriquece la lectura. Tiendo a pensar que le falta contexto histórico, es decir que no coloca completamente a los personajes en su entorno político histórico, cual si la filosofía se desarrollase independiente de los influjos de la agitada historia.
I didn't read the whole thing, mainly because I was looking for information on Democritus. I read the section on the Pre-Socratics and then on Democritus... My only complaint is that this was written for Jesuit students and so is meant to explain philosophy in the context of how it fits Catholic teachings. He's up front about that, at least, and he's fairly even-handed about it. But it got old once in awhile...
I think this multi-volume set is one of the most erudite works of its kind. I have been amazed at the exhaustive scholarship as well as the admirable fairness of the author. Not often does one find an author of philosophical works who is completely fair to the thinkers he discusses - even though his point of view is evident to a degree.
Unfortunately, I cannot read Greek. Copleston refers to key concepts using only the Greek terms using the native alphabet. I could not follow the discussion or even differentiate the terms. I was enjoying the book but could no longer comprehend it.
کتابی برای سیر در مقطعی از زمان که فلسفه و فلسفه ورزی در بعد تاریخی آن آغاز می شود. و به قول نیچه با رسیدن به سقراط به پایان کار خود می رسد. کتاب آغازی خوب، سیری موضوعی و متنی گیرا و نسبتاً بی طرف دارد.
This could have been a phenomenal book. By not translating into English the many long -- and critically important to the understanding of this subject -- quotes, Copleston limits his audience to those who know not only English but also ancient Greek and Latin, among other languages.
Some very good sections, such as the quick summaries of Ionian and early Greek philosophers. However, the assumption readers can understand all languages (French, German, Latin, Greek, etc.) and references made makes the book much more difficult to understand than it ought be.
بالاخره تموم شدكمرم زير بار مفاهيمش شكستكتابي كه بايد توي چند ترم توسط يك استاد مسلطبعد از كلي بحث و جدل خونده بشه روتنهايي خوندن نميدونم اسمش چيه و نتيجش مثبتهبراي خراش دادن به قصد نفوذِ معقوله اي به نام فلسفه خوبه
I need to get around to reading all these 9 volumes!
Good resource book
