https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/353826.Pimpernel_and_Rosemary
Set in the 1920s, this book introduces us to the Scarlet Pimpernel's great-great-grandson, Peter Blakeney.
He's in love with Rosemary, who has just gotten engaged to another man.
Also, we don't get to see nearly enough of Peter.
The story stays largely with Rosemary and her new husband, and it tries to build suspense and plant doubts as to the integrity of Peter Blakeney, but fails.
I highly doubt that evildoers sit around at midnight psychoanalyzing themselves for you, starting with their CHILDHOOD.).
Now that I've read ALL the Scarlet Pimpernel books (16 in total), what am I going to do with my life???
I was concerned that this book wouldn't be as good as The Scarlet Pimpernel, but rather a wanna-be since it occurs a few generations into the future of the original books. But once I got into it, it was a great read as well. Loved it.
I didn't know what to expect with this one, but I ended up loving it. Orczy does such an amazing job of describing things. She keeps you in suspense really well!
4.5 - It wasn't as good as the other ones in the series, and I guessed who the secret agent was when he says he'll get Rosemary to cough up the article, but I still really liked it.
I had just finished the Scarlet Pimpernel series, which made it hard to jump into the 20's, because my mind was still set in the 1700-1800 something's of the Scarlet Pimpernel's time, but all in all I enjoyed it, a lot.
I wish I could give it 4 1/2 stars, because I gave The King's Fifth four stars, and this isn't quite five stars, but it's really good -- better than King's Fifth.
Well, every writer has a "weak" or "clinker" of a work...and this qualifies as the Baroness Orczy's "weak" effort in her Scarlet Pimpernel series of novels and short-fiction collection. Pimpernel and Rosemary deals with the adventure of a descendent of Sir Percy Blakeney...and the book suffers from lacklustre scripting, a dearth of the hero's presence in general, and the featured lead character (the woman he loves) who comes across as a bit of a twit.
I really wanted to like this story more, after all it is about Percey Blakeney's descendant Peter Blakeney. The problem is we hardly see Peter in the story. Also, I learned that Transylvania really exists, it's not just the fictional land of Dracula.
I liked this book because I'm presently living in Romania, and this book is set in Transylvania. However, it does not compare with the original.
