https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2213324.Airhead
I do not understand where these crazy ideas come from, but I’m glad they do, because Airhead was simply an amazing book.I don’t want to give away anything too crucial to the plot, so I’ll only say that Meg Cabot does an amazing job of combining the modeling world with that of advanced science.
And even if you don’t usually like Meg Cabot’s other novels, you’ll be sure to enjoy Airhead, because it is an incredible read that left me wanting more.
It was written okay, but the premise of the book is just way too out there.
And it upsets me when you read 340 pages only to not know how the story ends!
For those wanting to continue reading the saga...
I'm going to read the next book from the library simply because by now I want to find out what happens.
I hated the second book even more than the first and have never had any desire to read the third book to find out how it all ends because it's THAT BAD!
Okay, so I was having the absolute best time reading my ARC copy of this newest Meg Cabot that doesn't come out until June.
But then, everything started coming together way too easily and things that should have taken a long time to explain or dawn on the characters were blithely wrapped up in just a couple of paragraphs and I was hurtling towards the end of the book with no clear ending that I could see.
Meg Cabot does not usually do this.
I find that her teen books usually hold up on their own really well.
2nd QUARTERDecember 21, 2008Models. Airheads. Same thing.By SITI HAJAR MOHD. KHAIRI 901 AirheadBy Meg Cabot337 pages2008 New York, NYPoint/ScholasticHardcover $16.99ISBN-10: 0-545-04052-3(Ages 12 and up) Models. Airheads. Whatever. They are perfect, fake and live “The Dream” all girls drool about -- to be famous, loaded with cash, and, of course, striking. Airhead by Meg Cabot zooms a little into the future and gives insight on how technology is improving. What if one day you find that you can b
Save paper and don’t cut down trees for this book!
Though, a girl with the name Emerson might come sounding like a guy, no wonder Christopher has not made a “move” yet.
It’s not like she’s alone, there’s bound to be many people -- teenagers -- who are as scared as she was to have her true feelings out in the open.
Airhead by Meg Cabot is a poorly crafted piece of literature, the whole plot is an avalanche of snow that buries all the good things about the book.
Add a pop star with a British accent, a supermodel called Nikki Howard and a giant plasma TV that only falls off the wall ONTO EM when activists protesting against Stark Enterprises take over the show.....and.......BAM!@!!!
Then crazy hot highjinks ensue, because she has to actually pretend to be Nikki, because Stark Enterprises are blackmailing her mom and dad with the millions of pounds hospital fees and such.Basically, any book that can combine feminisim, make up, hot boys and being supermodely gorgeous is a book that I am all over like white on rice.
2,5*Είμαι απογοητευμένη!Το θέμα του βιβλίου μου φάνηκε αρκετά πρωτότυπο, το ότι μπλέκει δηλαδή τον χώρο της μόδας με την επιστημονική φαντασία, αλλά η ροή της ιστορίας με απογοήτευσε.
Μέχρι να φτάσει στο γεγονός, που γύρο από αυτό εκτυλίσσετε όλο το βιβλίο, υπάρχει μπόλικη περιέργεια για που θα καταλήξει η συγγραφέας και μένεις με ανοιχτό το στόμα μετά από τις αποκαλύψεις (αυτό γίνεται στο πρώτο 1/3 του βιβλίου) αλλά μετά δεν υπάρχει κάποια εξέλιξη.
Είναι βεβαία ενδιαφέρον ότι δυο άκρως αντίθετοι άνθρωποι, από όλες τις απόψεις, όπως η Εμ Γουάτς και η Νίκι Χάουαρντ καταλήγουν μαζί, αλλά το τέλος είναι τόσο απότομο και χωρίς κάτι συνταρακτικό ώστε να αγωνιάς για το επόμενο βιβλίο.
Whhhhhhyyyyyy do I always get sucked in by Meg Cabot books?!
The plot was interesting enough, teen dies in a freak accident and at the same time a teen supermodel falls dead from a brain anureysm.
I know, I'm no author, but guh...this just ended so badly.
And she honestly goes back to her old school as the supermodel trying to reclaim the love of her life?
I kept thinking, wow, like this could get any worse, I waited this whole time for this ending?
So...of course like the sucker I am I will be reading them I'm sure.
DNF @59%MEHH ... “Well,' I said. 'I could strip off my clothes and reveal to you that under my jeans and sweatshirt I'm actually wearing a tank top and short-shorts, much like Lara Croft from Tomb Raider...only mine are flame-retardant and covered in glow-in-the-dark dinosaur stickers.'No one stirred. Not even Christopher, who actually has a thing for Lara Croft. 'I know what you're thinking,' I went on. 'Glow-in-the-dark dinosaur stickers are so last year. But I think they add a certain je ne s
“Well,' I said.
'I could strip off my clothes and reveal to you that under my jeans and sweatshirt I'm actually wearing a tank top and short-shorts, much like Lara Croft from Tomb Raider...only mine are flame-retardant and covered in glow-in-the-dark dinosaur stickers.'No one stirred.
Not even Christopher, who actually has a thing for Lara Croft.
'I know what you're thinking,' I went on.
'Glow-in-the-dark dinosaur stickers are so last year.
But I think they add a certain je ne sais quoi to the whole ensemble.
'Thank you, Em,' Mr. Greer said, yawning.
In this story two girls die at the same time.
One is a hot model who is brain dead and the other is an average teenager who has a tv crush her.
You kinda have to suspend your logic for this one and just enjoy Meg Cabot’s writing.
Of course the message is not exactly healthy for young girls and their self esteem but you kinda have to let the moral message go, too.
Regular teen=one friend who never moves you out of the friendzone and kisses you.
Super model teen=hot boys coming out of the woodwork complete with lots of love and kisses.
Ekkkhhh. I'm on the last disc, thank goodness. I have thoroughly enjoyed some of Meg Cabot's other books, but this one was written as if it were truly for airheads. (i.e. Simple elements in the plot are explained way too much.)
Airhead lives up to its name because this is some pretty serious Young Adult fluff.
The writing is pretty decent (for the genre), and there are a couple of standout, mildly entertaining supporting characters (why is it so hard to create an interesting protagonist though?).
This book, however, was always going to be part of a trilogy, which is the worst way to write a novel, if you ask me.
This is perhaps largely why I have chosen to bestow two stars upon Airhead when normally I would have given something like this three.
Another cute and fun Meg Cabot read.
The characters in this book were interesting to read about.
Em is your typical nerdy girl, has 1 best friend, hates the popular kids, and is pretty nice.
Nikki is a famous supermodel but used to getting her way and not thankful.
I liked seeing Em (in Nikki's body) be nice to people and shock them all.
Lulu was way cute and a good best friend.
I liked Gabriel the best, she should definitely break up with Brandon.
The fact that shes being spied on is very interesting, hopefully there will be more about that next book.
Oh my gosh, I loved this book so much! This is my first Meg Cabot book and it was amazing. I loved the main character, she's a lot like me, she was very relatable. This book was so fun. This is definitely one of my favorite books of 2015. I need to read the second book :) Stay tuned for reviews.
I feel like this had sooo much potential, but it felt a bit all over the place in terms of pacing, and plot. Also, it takes aaages for stuff to happen and then the book abruptly finishes. It's a trilogy, but I don't think I'll be reading the next two.
What do you expect when you read a book titled "Airhead"?
That's exactly what you get when you read "Airhead", a book more along the lines of a teen drama flick.
In fact after reading this book that's exactly how I felt, I felt like I just finished watching a teen flick.
All the other characters also have there set of flaws but that doesn't hinder the capability of this book to entertain you owing to the brisk story telling pace.
Source: I own this book.
Cost: Unknown Title:  Airhead Series:  Airhead #1 Author:  Meg Cabot  Overall Rating:  4 stars Meg Cabot is one of my favourite authors for her sense of humour and quirky storylines, and I found that this book fit the perfect trope of her writing style.
The book is intelligently thought out with the whole spirit transfer thing and I find it so funny how Em and Nikki are very different from one another but how towards the end, Em begins to embrace being Nikki.
I really hope that "Nikki" can make Chris like her more though, because he's definitely a character I want to see more from!
Adorei o livro, foi uma leitura que valeu imenso a pena. Parti para a leitura deste livro sem saber nada, nem mesmo a sinopse, mas como gosto bastante da autora e me apetecia ler um livro dela escolhi este. Foi, sem dúvida, uma ótima escolha. Adorei a premissa do livro, embora não seja muito original. Gostei, também, bastante da construção das personagens. Não são aquelas personagens fortes, são cheias de defeitos, mas acho que é isso que as torna únicas e bastante interessantes.
This, like Jinx, was very disappointing. I really didn't like the storyline or really anything else about this book. Except for the characters, this book is not worth even touching.
Meg Cabot books are always fun to read! I wasn't expecting a sci fi kind of book and it totally surprised me! The concept was cool but it was getting a little bit boring toward the middle. I will continue the series to see where this is going!
So when she wakes up as a $4,000-dress-wearing, boyfriend-stealing, high-school-drop-outing supermodel, she doesn't know how she can take over Nikki Howard's identity let alone walk in her stiletto shoes.While this book was interesting, and Nikki's best friend Lulu is definitely a stand-out character with her philosophies on love, skin care and house-keeping, I just didn't really buy it.
With  Forever Princess and  Queen of Babble Gets Hitched looming in the distance, two more books promised for the Heather Wells Mystery series, the unfinished Jinx series, the unfinished Avalon High series, her new middle-grade Allie Finkle series and who knows what other series rolling around in her head, do we really need a sci-fi version of America's Next Top Model?But if you want a light read that is classic Meg Cabot, you can't pass up this book.
Her life is as normal as can be.
Straight As, gaming sessions with her best friend Justin, and constant arguments with her sister, how normal can you be?
When accompanying her sister to the grand opening of mega-store Stark, her life ends and her new one begins.
Because as soon as she wakes up, she’s in Nikki Howard’s body, the teen supermodel that is the face of Stark industries.I was looking forward to this trilogy.
I thought the body transfer story would be worthy of a great read, but I was mistaken.
Maybe it’s the fact that I’m older and more critical than normal, but I just wasn’t feeling the story-line.
Cliff Hanger: ehTriggers: n/aRating: 1.5 starsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  6Plot: 4Characters: 2World Building: 4Flow:  4Series Congruity: n/aWriting: 5Ending: 4Total: 4In DeptBest Part: Um.Worst Part: Really not a believable plot.
Thoughts Had: really?!; dumb.ConclusionContinuing the Series: yesRecommending: ehShort Review: I read Cabot's Princess Diaries so i knew her writing wasn't the greatest, but this book, sheesh.
No i do not believe this.
So dumb it's kinda good but at the same time, really bad.Misc.
Book Boyfriend: No, shallow two timing asshats.
Best Friend Material: No all these girls are dumb...Review in GIF Form:
Meg Cabot is back with her new book Airhead- her first teen book with Scholastic and it's definitely a change from previous novels.
But now Em has to deal with being a supermodel, juggling boyfriends, and getting her best friend Christopher to realize that she is still Em. This story truly defines what a search-for-self novel really is.This story is different than any other Meg Cabot book you've read before.
While- like mentioned before- it isn't supernatural, you're sure to like this especially if you like to read glamour books.
Although it isn't like her normal reads, it still has that Meg Cabot touch that you will find familiar.
There seems to be a trend in Teen books of the plain Jane somehow ends up famous.
This time it is via brain transplant.
professor father) is invisible in school, while Nikki Howard is THE supermodel of the Teen genre.
A freak accident later and Em's brain is in Nikki's body, which brings with it the responsibilty of all of Nikki's contracts.
A spying, controlling company and the boy Em loved and left behind all make this a fun and clean book.
I am also noticing that publishers are leaning toward cleaning books up for the 'tween' market, which has been pretty ignored until this year, bookwise.
I disliked almost everything about this book.
First, I did not like the personality of the characters.
I had a feeling that Nikki was a show-off teenage model who kept bragging about herself and her gorgeous life, which was a bad role model for the readers.
Furthermore, I disliked the plot of this book.
The changing soul things was so off topic and I did not believe that it could happen at anytime and anywhere.
By the way, It was a poorly plotted piece of literature.
The main point is the plot was poorly written, I wonder how the readers entertain by reading it!
I picked this because I wanted to see what else the "Princess Diaries" author would write. The main character despises girls who care about looks and fashion, and then against her will, she kind of becomes one! It's kind of a far-fetched story, but it made me think. The style is geared to teenagers, but it was fun to read. Only bad part: I don't like beginnings of series that just end without wrapping things up, so you basically have to read the next book!
Pretty good. A bit weird; not exactly what i expected. but like all of meg cabot's other books, i couldn't help but like it. her writing is just so likable and funny, and she creates interesting characters. i really liked it; i can't wait for the sequel. ;D
Completely ridiculous and you have to suspend all belief to get through it, but yet somehow I still enjoyed it. Sometimes you just need a book like this.
Not my favorite Meg Cabot book, wasn't quite as witty as her other series but there is a fair amount of sass.
I had a really hard time with the storyline in this book...a brain transplant?
It was really out there for me and there wasn't a mystery like I've come to know in my Meg books.
However, I'm intrigued enough that I might pick up the next book.
I did quite like all of the characters and that is what would bring me back for more.
I have read this before, not sure what year it was.
