https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40909452-drums-of-autumn
*SPOILERS* Sadly, I think I've reached the end of my patience with this series. It started out wonderfully, and I will always consider the first, Outlander, to be one of my favorite books of all time. Unfortunately, Gabaldon just couldn't seem to keep her mojo working. At least, not for me. I endured the second book, with all its tedious details and snore-inducing battle descriptions and melodrama. I even accepted the third...even after being completely incensed and on the verge of tears when I
I even accepted the third...even after being completely incensed and on the verge of tears when I realized Claire and Jamie were separated for twenty years.
I find myself wondering if she even had solid plans for where this story would go when she began writing about Claire and Jamie.
It doesn't seem like she did because when you read it through, the Claire and Jamie in book four seem like completely different people from the other three books.
Claire is timid and outraged in turns, but her reactions never appear to fit in any coherent sense.
Drums of Autumn is no exception, but here the entire misunderstanding twist is just way overdone and makes some characters (particularly, to my chagrin, Jamie) act like complete idiots.Another hot button issue for me is this: does every character in the Outlander series have to get raped at some point?
I am sure even 200 years ago not everyone was assaulted, right?Brianna and Roger's relationship is given a lot of screen time in this book.
Brianna is a pretty unlikable, spoiled, rash person and a source of almost all misfortunes in the story.
One conversation could have easily solved this plot's problem. ONE.
And we have more Jamie and Claire and the others =) ♥I'm always going to put up the spoiler alert because there is always so much for me to say. I was also talking with a friend about how the books are starting to run together. My reviews may end up being from books before, all combined. Who ever knows! So far I have loved every one of these books, they are on my favorites list and I hope that doesn't change! I freaking loved this book! It's one of my favorites in the series.  "Do ye not underst
Ian ends up going to live with Native American's later on, getting married, having a baby and Rollo having a bunch of babies.
I just hope nothing happens to any of them =( But he was with Jamie and Claire for some time, this is toward the end of the book.
I keep having a hard time with Willie because I don't want Jamie to have a son from some stupid woman he didn't like but he had sex with her anyone because she was marrying an old man and didn't want him to be her first.
But he loved Bree and didn't care and said that was his son.
I can’t even put into words how much I love this man and I’m so glad he’s become one of the main characters in this book!
Roger is amazing and I really hope that he will be happy in the next books because he definitely deserves it!!!
XD (view spoiler)[I don’t understand why Claire doesn’t like him!!
I mean seriously that man is perfection and it’s not his fault that he loves Jamie!!!
I hope the next time we see that man he’s actually getting what he deserves!!- Claire!
*argh* (hide spoiler)]Well, despite all of my anger I still loved the book and cared about its awesome characters!
Ich finde es einfach klasse, wie sich am Ende alles fügt, auch Details, die aus dem ersten 3 Büchern stammen werden hier teilweise in der Handlung wieder aufgegriffen.
Ich finde es auch wahnsinnig beeindruckend in welche Richtung sich der Plot seit Band 1 entwickelt hat 😱 Und dann wieder diese Plottwists, die einfach aus dem nichts kommen.
Und wer sich jetzt wirklich bis zum Ende dieser Rezi durchgekämpft hat, kann es auch locker mit diesem 1200-seitiges Schwergewicht aufnehmen, denn ich spreche auch für Band 4 dieses Epos wieder meine uneingeschränkte Empfehlung aus!
Gabaldon's sex-ridden, hugely researched, academically adventurous, time travel/sci-fi meets historical romance novels qualify as trash novels for lit nerds -- they're absolutely a guilty pleasure.
Can't really go wrong.The books were recommended to me while I was living in England, and a lucky thing, too, because had I taken one look at the Fabio-in-a-kilt-of-passion American paperback cover I would have refused to read it (note: the British version was called Cross Stitch and the cover had a less-than-sexy field of heather on it).
Gabaldon has a way with characters and her prose flows along at an engaging clip.
This will be a quick review as I dinna have the time to do a full one.It took me two weeks to read this one.
Granted it coincided with the start of holidays so that usually means less reading time for me.
Won't say much as you are better off experiencing all things Outlander fresh and new!Even Lord John melted my heart a little.A lot happens in this book.
Do ye not know that, Sassenach?” I might take a wee break now from all things Outlander, although I did say that after I finished Book 3!!
I never thought I'd be the kind of person who would get swept up in a series of thousand-page epic fantasy adventure book, but here I am having finished book #4, mad that I have to wait a couple of days until the next installment arrives in the mail.
I think what went wrong with DiA was the remake of Jamie into kind of a dandy, trying to fit in with the silly French noble class.
I worried I wouldn't enjoy the expanding cast of characters, or the shift in focus outside the Jamie/Claire dynamic, but it wasn't as clumsy as I'd feared.
In fact, it gets a little old for me when Jamie and Claire have to escape death every 20 pages.
I too, am one of those folks that was totally in love with Outlander and, despite some rather graphic violence, thought it was a good enough book that I have continued to read the series up to this one.
By this book DG is reusing plots that we've already seen and the characters are becoming two dimensional caricatures of themselves.
The overall sense I had at the end was "I wish someone else I know had read this book so they can just tell me what happens, because I can't deal with another 1800 pages of these characters!"
*3.5 STARS*Definitely my least favourite in the series so far, purely because the first 45% of this book was SO BORING. But the last 55% almost made up for it.
First half of this book was fairly slow, but the second half blew me away. I especially loved watching Brianna and Roger's relationship blossom.Roger Mackenzie Jamie Fraser These characters are a pleasure to read, it's like coming home to family. Loved it!
Ms. Gabaldon's editors should be taking a much closer look at the arc, plot, and character development for inconsistency and redundancy.
The third starts to teeter on unnecessarily verbose with a wandering plot where characters tend to do things out of character.
So much so that Ms. Gabaldon has permanently scarred me from ever wanting to read one more word about their lives--good or bad.
All three main characters do ridiculous things which results in a forced plot.
I was so disappointed with this book that I only skim/skipped to the end from the middle on just to finish it for closure.
I loved the ending of this book.
Finally!
If anyone deserves lots of grand-babies, it's Jamie.
I love Lord John in this book.
He's charming, witty, and very sweet in this story, and I love the relationship between him and Bree.
Their characters had such great chemistry.
Lol. Roger is such a wonderful character.
In many ways, Jamie and Claire's story end with Voyager.
They were finally reunited and for good.
Allowing us to find out what happens, not only to Jamie and Claire, but to the people they love.
I liked this book.
It's easily my new favorite installment in the Outlander s series since the epic first book and the first half of Voyager.
A magnificent read!So many things happen in DOA, it's almost like reading five books in one.
I loved the way she was with Jamie in this book.
When you move, I move sort of way.Brianna- I wish I could like her.
I read these books for Jamie and Claire.Lord John Grey- so good to meet him again.
) Almost every scene with Jamie and wee IanThor book series is EPIC!
Jamie and Claire's epic love are still verra the heart and soul of this story.
The primary reason was that this story built slower at the beginning, needing more time to percolate and heat up in order to create the multiple emotional payoffs throughout the last half of the book, including golden moments between Brianna and Roger, Brianna and Jamie, Brianna and Claire, Jamie and Roger, Brianna and Lord John, and Brianna and Roger again.
In my opinion, Gabaldon is an excellent writer that has mastered several key areas of great writing, including plotting, character, scenes, and dialog.
Wine didn't help at all5.
Like almost the last half of this book made up for the boringness in the beginning..
WHY?!!?I love Jamie and Claire.
Then I tried wine because that usually helps me when books are boring or characters are just plain annoying.
Yeah, no amount of wine made this book better to me.
but again, it could just be me.I'm kind of hesitant to start the next book because I really want to finish this series and fall even more in love with Jamie and Claire's relationship but right now I have no idea what I want to do..
5 STARS!!!! ABSOLUTELY SENSATIONAL!!!!!!!![image error] ...and Jamie and Claire’s story continues, taking them from the wild and untamed West Indies to the unclaimed land of the new world. And once again, the story has completely captivated me.[image error] Many characters remain... and many new characters appear, both good and BAD!!![image error] And their journey through the past is yet interrupted again by a visitor or two from the future.[image error]  Then the room relaxed in cheers and bab
ABSOLUTELY SENSATIONAL!!!!!!!![image error]
And once again, the story has completely captivated me.[image error]
and many new characters appear, both good and BAD!!![image error]
And their journey through the past is yet interrupted again by a visitor or two from the future.[image error]
[image error]
[image error]
I cannot express the praise and awe that these books have stirred in me for Diana Gabaldon.
I’m sure Diana’s highly descriptive writing style isn’t for everyone, but for me...
I highly recommend this series, words cannot express!!!!!!!
It is more than worth the length of the books, in fact I dread reaching the end...
Now that Claire and Jamie are reunited and in America, a whole set of new and exciting adventures and new characters await one of my favorite literary couples.
Claire and Jamie have spent 20 years apart and have never really had the chance to be a couple in a marriage.
So I think it's definitely a gift of the latter books that we see them actually have a change to "settle down."Another snippet of Drums that sets it apart is that while we have Jamie and Claire in 18th century America, Diana also gives us the building relationship between Brianna and Roger in the 20th century.
The first 3, it only took me 200 pages at the very most for me to be completely absorbed and unable to put the books down to even sleep.
But this one, it took nearly 600 pages for me to feel like it was starting to get interesting.
I struggled throught the last 100 pages as the story seemed to drag on unnecessarily.
I really want to finish the series but after this book, I'm not apt to jump into the next 1000+ page story any time soon.Reading other reviews of this book, I can see why people don't really care for Brianna.
I am so glad that I decided to listen to this book because the narrator brings the story to life.
I actually believe that I liked this book even more during this second read.This story is epic.
This is really the first book in the series that their role is so pivotal to the overall story.
This is an emotional book and I really felt everything along with the characters as I listened to the book.
I listened to this audiobook for hours at a time and liked it as much if not more than I did the first time I read it.
Diana, what did you do to your wonderful series? You made great characters disappear, you dragged out scenes for hundreds of pages, you made the characters inner dialogue go on forever AND the overall story fizzled.WHY?I'm going to take a break before the next book, sadly.
This book took me a little over 3 weeks to finish and I LOVED IT!
It has been over a year since I had read book 3 in this series, but I as soon as I started up with Drums of Autumn I felt like it was only few weeks since I had been in the world of Jamie and Claire.
it just didn't seem to really add a whole lot to the main story and was just a lot of daily actives with just little bits of interesting things thrown in here and there.
Other than just some slowness in the beginning I still absolutely love Diana Gabaldon's writing style and story telling.
"You are my courage, as I am your conscience. You are my heart - and I your compassion. We are neither of us whole, alone. Do you not know that, Sassenach?" - Jamie Diana Gabaldon once again proved what an amazing writer and storyteller she is. I laughed, rejoyced, sobbed, swooned and teared up. I was anxious, scared and frustrated. But most importantly I lived the story with characters. I'm so glad to see books in this phenomenal series keeping its "x factor" with every new instalment. On to t
"You are my courage, as I am your conscience.
You are my heart - and I your compassion.
Do you not know that, Sassenach?" - Jamie
Diana Gabaldon once again proved what an amazing writer and storyteller she is.
I laughed, rejoyced, sobbed, swooned and teared up.
I was anxious, scared and frustrated.
But most importantly I lived the story with characters.
I'm so glad to see books in this phenomenal series keeping its "x factor" with every new instalment.
"Love?
Obligation?
How in hell you have love without obligation?" - Roger
To read my reviews of previous books, click on pic:
Quick summation as this this series has been reviewed quite a bit..
I mean, c'mon..
there is a Starz show and its Outlander.
I think I found the observations on the various Native American tribe life highly interesting.
I think I spent too much of the book eye rolling at Brianna and in a state of constant irritation at her self importance and barreling into situations with said importance.
(Seriously, lady.) You are not that important of a character and actually come off as an annoying gnat with little adding personality or value to the story, in my opinion.
*ducks from serious Outlander die hard fans*
Qu'est-ce que c'était bien ! À nouveau un très très bon tome, avec une ambiance bien différente, des protagonistes qui ont mûri, changé, et une nouvelle génération offrant un renouveau parfaitement intégré dans l'esprit de la saga. Malgré une dernière partie un chouïa moins passionnante, Drums of Autumn revient au niveau des deux premiers opus à mon sens. J'ai adoré, tout simplement, et je suis triste de quitter à nouveau cet univers... jusqu'au prochain épisode !
Dear God...there was *so* much plot in this book. Like, there was a lot going on and I'm not entirely sure all of it was necessary. Oddly enough I enjoyed the first half a lot more than the second half which seems to be the direct opposite of most peoples opinions of this book. Well, on to the next one.
(review in English below)Apesar duma péssima tradução (a pior que já li), que me obrigava frequentem
Buddy reading this with the awesome twelvejan[Alexandria]
Me olvidé de Brianna a propósito jajaja 😂Sin embargo, aunque no me haya gustado mucho el personaje de Brianna, creo que no es un personaje débil o mal formado por culpa de la escritora, si no que más bien porque así debió ser 🤔.
Ya que a diferencia de Claire, Brianna siempre tuvo una vida cómoda en su época, alejada de los sufrimientos y por estas razones creo que no entiende muchas cosas, por lo cual, termina haciendo todo como se le da la gana (y mal 😒).
