https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34001659-don-t-let-go
You could say I shove his books into the hands of strangers on a regular basis that I regularly recommend his novels in the most appropriate fashion, and with good reason- they are compulsive thrillers filled with dry humor and wit that anyone can relate to.
As one of my top 3 favorite authors of all time, I think it's safe to say my review cannot be wholly unbiased, but if you'll stick with me I'm going to try and give you impartial facts as to why you may love this book too.1- Coben based this book on true events that happened in his hometown.
An absolutely superb, stand-alone thriller to add to his (and my) collection.
Nap is a police detective who has never fully recovered from the death of his twin brother Leo. Along with his girlfriend Diane, Leo died tragically when the couple were just teenagers.
Unbelievably, that same night, Nap lost his girlfriend Maura…only she went missing, and was never heard from again.
As Nap starts digging into the past, there are others out there determined to keep the secrets of the past buried forever.
For this review and our Full Traveling Sister review please visit Norma and Brenda’s fabulous book blog: http://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi...
My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpr...2.5I have read and enjoyed quite a few of Harlan Coben’s books over the years.
I was having a hard time with all of the characters and was easily distracted by other things going on.I really liked Nap and enjoyed leaning about what he was like when he was younger.
The book brought up a lot of important thought-provoking issues, but I just had a hard time staying connected to the story.I’ve seen a lot of great reviews from readers that have really enjoyed this novel.
"Don't Let Go" is the Best Standalone Harlan Coben has EVER written.
At that exact same time, Nap’s high school girlfriend Maura disappeared.
“Don’t Let Go” is one of the best books Harlan Coben has ever written.
For those of you who have read Harlan Coben’s Myron Bolitar series, this book reminded me a lot of those.
Best friends Nap and Ellie’s friendship reminded me of Myron and Esperanza's (especially the in the earlier sports agent books).
Though I admit that the Myron Bolitar series is my favorite of Harlan Coben’s works, I would love to see more of Nap in the future.
Harlan Coben has achieved another mic drop with his latest book, Don't Let Go.Don't you hate it when "real life" gets in the way of your reading? If work hadn't gotten in the way, and we hadn't been without power due to a storm for more than 24 hours, I would have devoured this book in one sitting. But even spread out over a few days, this book knocked me out, and once again reminded me (after the fantastic Home last year—see my original review) what a fantastic writer Coben is.Napoleon "Nap" D
Suddenly Nap may be able to find answers to the two questions that have plagued him for years, and he is determined to do everything he can to uncover the truth, no matter how many people warn him simply to let it go.But instead of finding answers, Nap keeps finding more questions, questions he might not want to know the answer to, questions which involve Leo and Maura and Diana and other high school classmates.
That burden is so deeply felt in Don't Let Go, and Coben's mastery with the plot's twists and turns as well as its emotional intricacies makes this an excellent book.NetGalley and PENGUIN GROUP Dutton provided me an advance copy of the book in exchange for an unbiased review.
Harlan Coben, the king of literary suspense, is back at it again!Coben is my go to author for when I need a sure thing - he just ripped me out of a month long book slump with this here little tale, and I am oh so grateful.
You really can’t go wrong with his books, he is a master at this genre and always delivers.
If you are a fan of this genre, you certainly can’t go wrong with this book!4.5 starsThank you to Netgalley, Harlan Coben, and Dutton for a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
An ingenious, potent, and disturbing thriller- Napoleon ‘Nap’ Dumas’ was enjoying an active senior year in high school, where both he and his twin brother, Leo, were involved in serious romantic relationships, and were busy with extracurricular activities- Leo, with his conspiracy club, and Nap with his hockey team.
But, when a fellow officer is killed, Leo recognizes him as one of Leo’s buddies from the ‘The Conspiracy Club’, back in high school.
After all these years, why has Maura suddenly reappeared and why are members of the conspiracy club being murdered?
So, back to where we started- It’s Harlan Coben.
Special "Birthday" Traveling Sister Read with Brenda, Kaceey & LindsayI haven't read too many other books by Harlan Coben but the ones that I have read I have thoroughly enjoyed although not as much as this one.DON'T LET GO by HARLAN COBEN was an extremely well-written and good read!
Highly recommend!Publishing Date: September 26, 2017Thank you so much to Edelweiss, Penguin Publishing Group and Harlan Coben for the opportunity to read an advance copy of this book for a fair and honest review.The full Traveling Sisters Review can be found on Brenda's and my sister blog:http://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi...
Traveling Sister Special Read Review by Brenda and Norma with Kaceey and Lindsay's thoughts.Don't Let Go is an outstanding and solid new standalone thriller from the thriller master himself (in Brenda and Kaceey's opinion lol) Harlan Coben that we all were very excited to have received from Edelweiss.
Brenda and Kaceey who are big time fans of Harlan Coben were very excited to read this along with Norma and Lindsay who have only read one or two of his books so far.
Harlan Coben takes a hometown legend and builds quite an interesting and creative story here that had all of us quickly turning those pages with Norma reading and finishing it mostly in one day.
I believe the premise for the story is based on true events that occurred in the author's home town which made the plot all the more interesting and compelling for me.I thoroughly enjoyed "Don't Let Go", I highly recommend it to thriller readers young and old and I look forward with baited breath for Harlan's next book.My thanks to friend and fellow reader Rachel Hall for her copy of the book.5 stars
With encouragement from my fantastic “sisters” Brenda, Norma and Kaceey, I jumped on board this Traveling Sister Read and tried out Coben’s latest book and it definitely lived up to the hype!I loved the main character, Nap!
I am definitely hungry for more books from this author and will make sure I add some to my reading list in the near future.A big thank you to Edelweiss, Penguin Publishing Group and Harlan Coben for providing me with a copy in exchange for an honest review!To find this review along with the Traveling Sisters review, please visit Norma and Brenda's fabulous blog at:https://twogirlslostinacouleereading....
I did have some guesses throughout this mystery, and some of them were close, but in true Coben fashion you can never be quite sure what happened until the final period of the final page.One thing you don’t get in this book that you sometimes see with Coben is humor.
It seems like he keeps that just to the Bolitar series.
Everytime I have read a book outside of that series, it has been more serious.
However, (view spoiler)[Myron does make a quick guest appearance in this book (hide spoiler)]If you haven’t tried Coben before and you like mystery/suspense/thrillers, he almost always delivers.
A New Jersey cop, Nap, a baffling murder case that brings back the unsolved case and unsettling memories of the death of his twin brother Leo and his girlfriend, Diana 15 years earlier.
Not only that, but Nap's high school girlfriend, Maura who had broken up with him, disappeared.
Was she connected some how?A new murder investigation of a Pennsylvania cop, Rex Canton, who was also one of his high school classmates brings back all the circumstances and questions about the their unsolved deaths 15 years earlier.
Maura's fingerprints are found in the car of the suspect in the Rex Canton case and Nap quickly starts making connections.
Originally posted on The Book NymphoDetective Napoleon (Nap) Dumas is brought into a case involving a murdered cop in another state when prints found at the scene match those he’d entered in the system years ago.
It’s an unusual narrative, one I liked as Nap discusses the case and revisits the past through conversations with the deceased Leo. We learn a lot about their past and the people important to their lives, past and present.
Friends know that Harlan Coben is one of my favorite auto read authors, even if the story just turns out okay because it’s still a standout.
I've only read one book by him that I thought was so-so, the rest are great.
If I am looking for a dependable author who has twists and turns coupled with good writing and story lines, I know I can depend on Coben to pull it off.
His twin brother Leo and Leo's girlfriend (Diana) were found dead on railroad tracks on night.
Nap eventually becomes a police officer, Mentored by Diana's (twin brother's girlfriend found dead on the tracks with her) father.
This book was a very enjoyable read.
Usually I love Harlan Coben mysteries, but I think this was the first one that took me two weeks to read.
I just didn't enjoy it much and had to force myself to pick up the book and finish it.The story revolves around New Jersey detective "Nap" Dumas, and the mysterious deaths of Nap's brother and his girlfriend, followed by the disappearance of Nap's own girlfriend, Maura.
Why didn't I love this book?
I think it's because it felt like Coben was just going through the motions.
As far as I am concerned Harlan Coben writes good books, very good books and excellent books.
This one falls into the excellent category!Don't Let Go starts full on and finishes at the same speed.
What a twist!I smiled when Myron Bolitar paid a short visit.
Character development is one of Coben's many strong points and I very quickly became attached to Nap. What a pity this is not the start of a series as he would probably be at least the equal of Myron if not even better.Highly recommended to anyone who enjoys the genre.
Second book by Harlan Coben I've read.
✔ Second book by Harlan Coben I've really enjoyed.
✔ In DON'T LET GO, Detective Nap Dumas finally gets a lead in the disappearance case of his high school girlfriend — well, it's his own case as no one else is looking.
Maura went missing 15 years ago on the same night his twin brother Leo and Leo’s girlfriend Diana were killed, supposedly hit by a train.
Nap's always wondered if there was more to the story, and of course, if Maura's disappearance was somehow related.
DON'T LET GO is page-turning suspense with a complex mystery and relatable characters.
Fifteen years before the story opens, in 2002, Napoleon (Nap) Dumas was an 18-year-old high school jock in Westbridge, New Jersey.....looking forward to college and a future with his beautiful girlfriend Maura.
As it happens, Rex Canton was Nap's high school classmate, and belonged to a teenage 'Conspiracy Club' with Leo, Diana, Maura, a boy named Hank - who has since succumbed to mental illness, and a girl called Beth - who's now a physician in Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Nap comes to suspect that the activities of the Conspiracy Club led to the deaths of Leo and Diana fifteen years ago, and to Maura running off.
Coben is an auto buy author for me, I’ve read every single one of his books and have never been disappointed by any of them.
The main character, Nap reminded me of a combination of Myron and Win so my craving for them was partially satiated.
I can’t say much more about the plot, but this was excellent, Coben is a master and this was a strong reminder for me as to why he’s one of my all time favorite authors.
He’s simply one of the best and if you haven’t read one of his books before they all come highly recommended by me.
3.5 rounded down for the reasons below...Don't Let Go is the latest stand alone by crime writer Harlan It is the story of Nap (short for Napolean) Dumas whose TWIN brother was found dead on the town's train tracks along with the brother's girlfriend.
Nap's girlfriend mysteriously disappeared after this and so the story begins.
Coben is a good writer.
His books keep you entertained and, admittedly, I read this one straight through with no breaks.
There is a lot of dialogue so it's an easy read.
I don't read Coben's series and rarely read his stand alones.
Military torture works.
Torture does not work.
Fifteen years after Detective Nap Dumas’ twin brother Leo and his girlfriend Diana lost their lives when they were hit by a fast-moving train, Nap still grieved.
Never able to let go, he also thought constantly of the girl he loved, Maura, who had also disappeared that night.
He’d been someone Nap had known slightly all those years ago – but it was Maura’s fingerprints which were discovered near the murder scene that shocked him to the core.
Would Nap discover what had really happened to Leo and Diana?
His books are usually well plotted out mysteries that keep you engaged.
For starters, Napoleon Dumas initially comes across as a bit of a jerk.
Now comes word that his HS girlfriend might have resurfaced.
There are lots of conspiracy theories here.
And initially, it appears that Nap is really weaving a story out of some pretty thin threads.
Like his mentor, I struggled to see if there were connections were Nap saw them.
The use of a Nike missile site brought back lots of memories to me.
While this story kept me engaged, I never felt I could buy into it.
Loved the character Nap. Could see the clever witty writing through this character as always from HC.
though I could definitely see his usual humour in the protag, it was nice to listen to it in audio.
HC does dry humour with his flawed characters, usually when the protag is a male.
I love those parts of his characters, and there will always be at least one in every book he writes.I just wasn’t fussed with the storyline, more disappearances, nothing exciting.
Spoiler in this book for the Myron Bolitar series - a major event was mentioned.
Nap, a police detective , is haunted by his twin brother Leo and Leo’s girlfriends Diana’s death 15 years ago.
It was ruled as an accidental death by a train collision but the same night Nap’s girlfriend Maura also disappeared from his life.
Now, after 15 years Maura’s prints turn up in a cop homicide case which throws out everything Nap believes to be true about his brother’s death.I am a big fan of Harlan Coben and this book did not disappoint.
I’m a fan of Harlan Coben’s books, but unfortunately Don’t Let Go didn’t do it for me. The conspiracy theory driven plot was boring. A little too far fetched with high school kids and the military. Also, the Audiobook was just so so as I didn’t really care for the narrator’s voice. I will be sticking to Coben’s ebooks in the future.3 out of 5 stars
While I prefer the Myron Bolitar stories (he is such a great character), Coben’s stand-alone stories are a ton of fun to read too, and Don’t Let Go is definitely a page-turner.
As the story opens, Nap Dumas is a police officer in his hometown who has never recovered from the death of his twin brother and simultaneous disappearance of his girlfriend Maura 15 years prior when they were all seniors in high school.
I struggled a little with the characters in Don’t Let Go. I had a bit of a time believing that Nap hadn’t moved on one iota from either his brother’s death or from his almost obsession with his high school girlfriend.
I have been a long time fan of Harlan Coben's work so I went into this book with some pretty high expectations.
This book was filled with all of the twists and turns that I have come to expect from Harlan Coben.
Nap has always been somewhat desperate to learn what really happened.When Maura's fingerprints are discovered at the murder scene of another high school classmate, Nap starts trying to piece everything together.
I felt Nap's desperation to learn the truth behind what happened to his twin and wanted everything to come out okay in the end.
Needless to say, "Nap" - who narrates the story - has been despondent to a degree ever since as well as determined that someday, some way, he'll find out what really happened back then.
It turns out to be a complex journey that circles around a clandestine club and a long-since-closed missile base and puts him squarely in the crosshairs of some very nasty people who will go to just about any lengths to make sure their secrets stay that way.Anything else that happens I will keep secret as well, lest I spoil things for others.
I read the first half of this book at a hotel on business. Reading it in bed I set it aside and turned off the light. I didn't realize until I was through security at the airport that I left this book in my bed and wouldn't be reading it on my 3 hour flight... aaaassauuuuuugggggghhhhhhhh! After getting the hotel to mail this book to my home I was thrilled to finish it! Harlan Coben is tried and true. The perfect books to take on a long trip. I highly recommend all of his books!
