https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/599090.A_New_Hope
RISING UNEMPLOYMENT: The “DARK SIDE” of the Rebel Victory at Yavin. ***The following is just one story of the economic devastation that resulted from the brutal and senseless attack by the so called rebels (called "domestic terrorists" by many) on the newly completed pork barrel government works project known as the Imperial Death Star...there are many, many more.***To: Major Bigga AsshatianChief of Coruscant Internal Security From: Chips O’TooleDirector FISEPRA (Former Imperial Stormtrooper Em
***The following is just one story of the economic devastation that resulted from the brutal and senseless attack by the so called rebels (called "domestic terrorists" by many) on the newly completed pork barrel government works project known as the Imperial Death Star...there are many, many more.***To: Major Bigga AsshatianChief of Coruscant Internal Security From: Chips O’TooleDirector FISEPRA (Former Imperial Stormtrooper Employment Placement and Relocation Agency)Re: Employment Candidate RequestDear Major Asshatian:I have a candidate for the vacant file clerk position at Coruscant Internal Security (CIS) and I would greatly appreciate if you would consent to granting him an interview for the position.
Everything, here begun! I have bought the Omnibus edition with the three original “Star Wars” movie novelizations but I’ve chosen this edition to make a better focused review of each single book. A LONG TIME AGO… This is the novelization of that movie that a long time ago changed the way that Hollywood does films, maybe you have heard about it (unless of course, you have been frozen in carbonite for more than 40 years), since there is the far far away chance that you have never watched the movi
Then why am I beginning with the fourth episode in the series?!Because it’s Star Wars……changing everything, even the way to tell stories (not to mention of re-inventing how the speciall effects would be done from then on).And nowadays (2018) is more alive than ever!OK, now, if you are of those frozen in carbonite and never having watched the movie, I warned you of NOT keep reading since there will be some kind of spoilers…
A winter viewing marathon begins...Description: The Imperial Forces, under orders from cruel Darth Vader, hold Princess Leia hostage in their efforts to quell the rebellion against the Galactic Empire. Luke Skywalker and Han Solo, captain of the Millennium Falcon, work together with the companionable droid duo R2-D2 and C-3PO to rescue the beautiful princess, help the Rebel Alliance and restore freedom and justice to the Galaxy. Written by Jwelch5742Jeepers, that was grrrreat! Does anyone else remember the Atari game? Watch it here
I didn't really like the way it was written, but it was a fun read. Yay Star Wars!
Became a project of mine to read 'the Star Wars books' - and this was a great start. Loved it, and it really made me see Star Wars from a new perspective!Great and honest intro by George Lucas about how he approached the ghostwriter Alan Dean Foster, and it is great to see both of their talents on the page.Reading the next two currently! Love them as well, but man - Alan Dean Foster really started things off right!
I read this just after the movie came out when I was 7 or 8 years old. I remember loving it but preferring the wonders of the silver screen. I curiously never went back to read it again. Perhaps I will someday...
For the record, I read a yellowing 1977 edition complete with "16 pages of full-color photos from this spectacular space-fantasy motion picture." Ah, the nostalgia...Such a fun read!
As Luke joins together with his old acquaintance Obi-Wan Kenobi, two droids carrying a vital secret and new friends Han and Chewbacca they embark on an epic adventure that can only be told in a galaxy far far away.A play-by-play book of the movie which is almost like reading the screenplay.
It is hard for someone like me (a huge Star Wars freak) to envision the story told any other way or for the characters to say anything else but what they say in the movie.
This book introduced me to words such as "lambent" and "actinic" when I was only seven or eight years old.
But it leaves a more lasting impression.- Back at the beginning of the Star Wars phenomenon the stories were a lot simpler and there was a lot more left to the imagination.
Much of the impression that the original Star Wars story leaves on us comes from the fact that we are left to fill in the back-story with only hints and pieces.
While this is a fun novelization of the blockbuster film, purists may have some issues with it. Some of the iconic lines ("Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi; you're my only hope") are changed, whereas others are added, such as Obi-Wan talking about a duck, to which Luke replies, "What's a duck?" Still, fans of space opera will enjoy it, as long as they're not expecting an exact transcript of the movie.
As a child I remember them watching Star Wars with Mom, but I don't remember the scenes from the films in particular; I just remember loving Yoda.
(hide spoiler)]Fast-forward to now, in a galaxy far, far away...Star Wars is one of the most talked about science fiction film franchises in the United States (and probably in the rest of Western civilization): the space action, the lightsabers, the wonderfully crafted and sophisticated dialogue, the hilarious banters, the droids and various creatures of different species, and everything else it has to offer.
This was such a fun read, though at different intervals I was rather bored; it's the reason for which I rated this a 3.5 stars.There's no need for me to write a summary for the book.
Ar galima įvertinti mažiau nei maksimumu? Kai užaugi su "Žvaigždžių karų" magija, geriau tik perskaityti ją, įsijausti kitu kampu, ne tik žiūrėti ką jau kažkas perskaitė ir sukūrė filmą. Skaitai ir tiesiog pasineri į knygą, viskas taip paprasta, o kartu ir ne, jog neįtikėtinai įtraukia, paperka, įvilioja į "Žvaigždžių karų" pasaulis, jog norisi tapti dalimi. Sklendžiant puslapiais vėl ir vėl prisimeni, kodėl norėjai tampti Džedajumi, o gal Lėja, ar vis dėlto Hanu Solo, galbūt net Vukiui ar R2D2. Nepaprastai kosmiškai dieviška. Jėga!!!!!!
Despite Alan Dean Foster's (I think we can all stop pretending Lucas wrote this) magnificently purple prose, despite his inexplicable bigotry towards Jawas, despite all the differences from the movie, I loved this book because it made me feel like I was discovering Star Wars all over again.Surprisingly, there were things I genuinely liked about this book.
If you ever watched Star Wars as a kid, if you ever wanted to grow up to be a Jedi (or a Corellian smuggler, or a princess from Alderaan, or a Sith lord) then I dare you to read about the Millenium Falcon coming in to save Luke right before he blasts the Death Star and not smile.
a long time ago (December of 1976), in a galaxy far, far away (Bluefield, Virginia)...
I was home from college for winter break and spotted this weird little paperback on the spin-rack of the corner drug store.
I never suspected the book would get another printing, or that the film which was to be released in a few months would enjoy any marked success, or that anyone would remember this Star Wars thing by next year, or that Alan Dean Foster was the actual author.
It was fun, and I'm glad to have the irony of the memory, and long may it last...
Back before there were VCRS (let alone DVDs), this was one of my favorite books.
I first read this book just as the lights were fading from the original theatrical release of "Return of the Jedi" in 1983.
I never lost my love of the book.As much as people love the films, the books are better and go into much more detail.So I continue to revisit my old favorite...and refuse to call it "A New Hope." They added that later, after Empire came out.
To those of us old enough to remember seeing the movie in the theater, this book and this movie will always be simply "Star Wars."
Es una obra maestra..¿Qué otra puntuación iba a darle?:):D
Usually novelizations of movies are not as good as the movies themselves. This is certainly true here. The Star Wars movie is fantastic; but it loses a lot when transferred to print.
The differences are a little jarring at first (different callsigns, that Luke, Wedge, and Biggs make two assaults on the trench and not just one, the death of Biggs and Luke's little goodbye message (not nearly as juvenile by that point in the book as it seemed at the beginning), the timing of Han's rescue and Obi-Wan's messages, as well as the description of how Luke actually destroyed the Death Star), but on the whole it was very riveting.
They find out Princess Leia is being kept aboard the Death Star, and they set out to rescue her while Obi-Wan sets out on his own mission to shut down the Tractor Beam so the Falcon can escape, and face his former student Darth Vader one last time.The crew arrives safely at the Rebel Base with the Princess and Luke Skywalker joins the Rebellion against the Empire, piloting an X-Wing Fighter, and assists the other Rebel pilots in the battle against the Death Star.I could go on forever and ever, I can't tell everyone how much I love Star Wars, I was 5 years old when I watched the first one and I've loved it ever since.
“We’re a couple of shooting stars, and we’ll never be stopped.”“Someday you're going to have to learn to separate what seems to be important from what really is important.”What is there to say about this beloved story that hasn't already been said?
This story and these characters are timeless.
Been feeling the Star Wars love lately, so I decided to re-read some of the books.
THere is nothing quite like the moment when you first read about Darth Vader prowling the rebel ship, or when Luke rescues Leia from the Empire, or when C-3PO and R2-D2 first bickered back and forth with each other.
Everything about this book and this story is just wonderful.
A fantastic book from a fantastic movie.
Com isto quero dizer que, embora tenha sido lançado alguns meses antes do primeiro filme, com base no guião original de George Lucas, os filmes têm mais projecção e os livros funcionam como uma espécie de bónus para os que apreciam a saga.Atribuído a George Lucas, mas na realidade escrito por Dean Foster, as descrições em «A Guerra das Estrelas» não fazem - e muito dificilmente fariam - justiça à diversidade e complexidade estética das personagens ou dos cenários presentes no filme.
In the novel form, it is never mentioned whether Jabba is the slug we all came to know and love or the human in which the role was originally cast.
In the special editions, the CGI addition of the slug form of Jabba replaces the human actor cast in the role that was eventually left out of the original release.
All of these changes by George Lucas have left many, like myself, feeling that Lucas had no clear goal in how he was going to formulate the trilogy beyond the first film.
You be left feeling all geeky and nerdy, just like when you saw or read it for the first time.
“Someday you're going to have to learn to separate what seems to be important from what really is important.” Twenty years after the birth of Luke and Leia, the Empire has risen. Darth Vader, being in control, is trying to destroy every last piece of the Rebellion. When Luke receives a cryptic message from a beautiful princess held captive by the Dark Lord, he knows he has to save her. Together with his father's old master Obi-Wan Kenobi and a smuggler named Han Solo they get to the Death Star
When Luke receives a cryptic message from a beautiful princess held captive by the Dark Lord, he knows he has to save her.
With nothing but courage and his father's old lightsaber, Luke tries to save the princess, but faces all kinds of dangers right in front of him.I have to say that I liked the movie more.
It felt like they didn't do Han much justice in this book.
Then again, I liked to know and read more about Luke.
I liked to read things from a new perspective.
If you're reading this review, I assume you have already read the book or seen the movie.
However, I had never read the books up until Christmas of 2012 when I received a hardback edition of the Star Wars Trilogy.
When I first read the books, they immediately soared into my top books list.
The imagery in this book specifically made me feel like I was experiencing a mental movie, and the characterization was so well done I felt like I had known every single character since they were born.
For me, it wasn't just a well-written book.
(hide spoiler)] The book is beautifully written, especially if you like futuristic books from awhile back.
What a great time!
The robots were like two children, C3PO was the big brother who loved his little R2D2.
I loved the dialogue and interaction of those little guys.
You see Luke growing up in a farm village on his planet and follow the events of his life that devour him, the fork of destiny poking him and pulling towards a giant open mouth.
You see him grow and by the end of the book you’re like, “Come on Luke!
We all love you bud!
We believe in you buddy!”  What a great story!
One of my all-time favorites.
This book is best described as Star Wars: A New Hope.If you have never seen the movie you have either been living under a ginormous rock, or have consciously avoided the physical embodiment of awesomeness that is Star Wars, in which case you are not going to be reading this book either.Being written by George Lucas himself, this book doesn’t offer any new material or further background information.
It’s nothing more than a “book edition” of the movie.
It is really fun to read but watching the movie is more fun in this case since the scenes are hard to shape the scenes you read in your imagination.
Second of all, google tells me that this should be spelled "helictites," but in the book it is definitely written as "helicites." The confusion multiplies.Obi-Wan says, "In my experience there is no such thing as luck, my young friend -- only highly favorable adjustments of multiple factors to incline events in one's favor." Like, jeez.
Leia says, "You must help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi.
For instance, Obi-Wan says to Luke, "Even a duck must be taught to swim." Luke's response is, "What's a duck?" I spent a solid 4 minutes unable to continue reading because I was laughing at this.
4.5 stars. This book was great, and so truthful to the movie. I loved how there was an adding scene to Luke's story. We also get a new relationship between Luke and another character named Biggs. There were actual lines from the movie and I could totally picture the scenes from the movie in my head. There were a few spots that dragged on, and I wanted to see a little more action. However, the action scenes that did occur totally made up for it!
This book was an amazing interpretation of the very known movie. It presents the adventures of Luke Skywalker, the child of the famous Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker and brother of Princess Leia Organa.I really enjoyed this book because of it's action and characters and I would recommend it to everyone reading this review.Bogdan Teodorescu
