https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/407813.The_Blue_Sword
So he does, not knowing why, but knowing it is necessary for some reason.So begin the adventures of Harry, as she learns to ride a Hillfolk horse, fight with a sword, and come to terms with the kelar that runs in her own blood as well as Corlath's.
She also needs to come to terms with her own heritage, her relationship with Corlath, and what her role will be in the fight against the inhuman Northern army.This story takes place in the same world as The Hero and the Crown, which is set in an earlier time but was written later, so you can read these books in either order.
"The Blue Sword" is an age old story of a young woman who after years feeling not belonging, invisible, and insignificant, finds her strength after being kidnapped by a mysterious Hill-king who possesses magic powers.
Gradually she discovers an ancient magic inside herself, comes to terms with her abilities, acquires friends and love and a place where she truly belongs, as unexpected and unfamiliar as this place is to her.Yes, the story is familiar, but the sign of a real writing talent is to make it special and unforgettable.
This is certainly not my last Robin McKinley book.
It pulses through this book much as it pulses in the blood of our two protagonists, moving the story to its will, arranging events to suit its needs without much care for mortal feelings or objections.Therefore, while I understand how some might object to the fact that this story begins with Harry being kidnapped by Corlath, in a way they were both kidnapped.
He no more wants to take her than she wants to be taken, but the kelar needs her to be Damarian, so neither of them have a choice.Now, given that she's compelled and aided by something that powerful, Harry's entry into a new culture is remarkably easy, and this would be a problem if not for the fact that the point of this book is something entirely different.
WAIT FOR IT) called Harry (I DARE you not to think about Prince Harry’s bearded face now!) is forced to leave her home in the England Homeland empire and accept hospitality of strangers in Damaria, a desert land recently colonised but still inhabited by mysterious nomad Hillfolk.
And then she got a magic sword so she could save the world.Harry is outwardly unprepossessing, well-bred young lady finding her place on the lower branches of a gentry tree in a Victorian-like society but inwardly she is an unquiet spirit, yearning for an adventure.
When the  British Homelanders refuse to get involved in someone else's war help, the King of the Hillfolk, under the impulse of his own magic, decides to abduct Harry.
There are many out there who think The Hero and the Crown the better book, but I read The Blue Sword first and Harry is my one true love. That's part of it. I always liked the romance line better in The Blue Sword. And there's something remarkable in that, because for most of this book the two are separated. Yet I believe in their match unquestionably. Alanna was my first girl with a sword and magic, Harry was the first one I felt was like me.
McKinley still amazes me with how fully realized Damar is as a place, how familiar the Homeland and its desire to civilise feels, and how freaking scary the Northerners are.
Motherfuckers are SCARY.)This is the perfect escapism book, partially because that's what Harry, our delightful heroine, ends up doing.
And a sexy, sexy mentor in Corlath, the king of the Hillfolk, who forces his elite guard, the Riders, into accepting and teaching Harry.
And of course she gains a ghostly mentor in Aerin, who will later get her own book, the Newberry winning The Hero and The Crown.Her journey through this, and her ascension as damalur-sol, Lady Hero, is the thing that makes this book so compelling.
a pleasure to read.wonderful heroine.
I loved her nonchalant displays of bravery and independence, her easy acceptance of her own difference from others, her drama-free perspective on the world(s) around her, her quiet and her calm.opening chapters felt distinctly like an alternate version of colonial era Britain.
something about the 'blood is blood' and the idea that a person can only truly be accepted in a culture when they have the blood of that culture...
happily, in the end, McKinley makes it clear with the acceptance of some Outlanders that this is not actually her perspective.short book.
Narknon to the rescue!speaking of Narknon, that cat and the horse Sungold were really wonderful characters.
I have read this book so many times that picking it up again, after many years, was like hearing an old favorite song come onto the radio...
Our main POV character is Harry, a young woman who's been brought up in a certain type of society, and although she is an admirable person, her perspective on things is realistically limited by her experiences and what she perceives as 'normal.' I actually think that the presentation of the political issues is just about perfectly handled for an audience of preteens and young teens.The main focus of the story is not political, but is on Harry as a character.
She's fluently translating in no time.Learn to ride a crazy big, amazingly bred, best-of-the-best, super-smart, intimidating war-horse?
Sure, she has to swing the sword and ride the horse, but the magic in her makes her the best at it almost without even trying, and then all the really big stuff just happens by "instinct".
There's nothing at all special or impressive about Harry aside from an accident of birth, but this book apparently thinks she's the greatest thing since sliced bread.
The story progressed through trope check-points like it was going out of style.
Robin McKinley's The Blue Sword blue me away.
(What can I do for swords?) I don't know how to handle the feeling in a review.
(Blue words!) (Stop it, Mar!)Reading that someone likes world-building and atmospherics doesn't really convey why I thought this was awesome so I won't try and be a normal reviewer for once.
McKinley knows what she's doing.
McKinley was as good at that.
It's like the sword handle behind the story that made it much more than a story.
Like when you're living the story in your head as you are reading and forget everything else.
In fact, I would go so far as to say that while I loved the world-building in this story, much of it felt like a mere outline which McKinley had forgotten to go back and develop in many parts.
It had many technical flaws in its writing and narration and while I could not connect with the characters and don’t feel as if I know Corlath, the enigmatic Damarian king who later becomes Harry’s husband, I think the setting and political intrigue of this novel is remarkable.
Main character must have cool sword with cool name.
Main character must have animal companions.
Main character receives at least three separate incredibly important positions in this culture.
Deus ex machina ending where the main character kills all the baddies in one giant sparkly super attack.
Obvious but curiously juvenile sexual tension with the most important person in the interesting culture, resolved when hero and badass king fall into each other's arms in the final pages.
Check.Overall impression: The writing isn't bad, but the plot failed to move me in any way.
There is so much I didn't get about the relationship between Harry and Corlath (from the initial abduction on) when I was young that I appreciate better now.Read 6/23/13: Back when I was twelve or thirteen and tearing through the YA shelves at the library, I picked this book up and immediately set it aside because the first paragraph seemed boring.
(I am now old enough to appreciate McKinley's writing, but between this and Patricia McKillip's Riddlemaster series I wonder at the things that used to be designated as YA.)I wonder, too, that Harry's character as a relatively unfeminine, tall, horse-loving young woman doesn't put me off; these days (as I am now old and crotchety) I have little use for stories about girls Oppressed By Society who have complete disdain for the womanly arts.
This book is better than it ought to be, and I'm honestly a bit bamboozled why I received it as well as I did (or why it has such a good rating here on Goodreads).
Almost nothing happens in the entire book.
In this book there is a magic called kelar whose limitations are never really explained.
NO PROBLEM KELAR TO THE RESCUE.The real hero of the story isn't Harry or the king Corlath, it's...
It's a perfect YA book - it's a coming-of-age (fancy word: bildungsroman) experience through and through.
Harry is a Mary Sue (very little actual characterization).
Later I took a Children's Lit class in which McKinley was discussed, so I am reassured that even if I hadn't checked out the book that day, my life would not have been McKinley-less for too much longer.As an English major, I (supposedly) read a lot of good books during my time at college.
The ones that have stayed with me, however, are the young adult books I read for fun, and I maintain that reading Robin McKinley's books was one of the most important literary experiences I had during my time at school.
Also lots of love. So much love. I loved Aerin's story, and I think The Hero and the Crown is very complete, but I would happily read more books about Harry and Corlath, I really, really would!
I had a hard time reading this for purely physical reason: my copy of THE BLUE SWORD is very probably 30 years old, and the fragile yellowed pages are losing their tenuous grip on the broken spine.
I believe I'll seek out Robin McKinley at the nearest possible opportunity, ask her to sign my beloved and battered book, and retire it with honors alongside my equally ancient and beaten-up signed copy of DRAGONSONG.The truth is, had discussion about HERO in my last Recent Reads post not pointed it out to me, it probably never would have occurred to me how passive a character Harry is.
Probably my favorite book. This is coming with me to my desert island.
There were too many niggling “off” things for me to immerse myself, and chief among them was the heroine, Harry, who never became sufficiently “real” enough for me to care for her.But I don’t want to come down on McKinley too harshly or suggest that this isn’t a good book.
In fact, I’m including it (and its sequel, The Hero and the Crown) in my nieces’ Xmas care package this year because I think they’d enjoy it.
I loved this book.
With all my heart.
It starts with a girl who doesn't quite fit, then builds from there.
There are demons and heroes and enchanted swords and true love.
Also legends and big loving cats and semi-supernatural archers.
Did I mention evil?
Oh, and kings and proto-British cavalry?
And horses from the fever-dreams of Alec Ramsey!
Palatial tents.
The best kinds of friendship, the kinds which transcend rank and sex and age.The plot is classic, the story arc undeniably satisfying, and the writing superb.Where was I when this book came out?
I'm on the fence about this book :) It had some major flaws, mostly that it was so focused on the main story that it lacked some depth.
The character gets abducted and becomes this warrior with little passing thought to what she's actually experiencing.
It's actually really weird.
I got really caught up in the story whenever I could ignore how it glossed over many important things.
During the battle scene towards the end I found myself gripping my book very tightly.
Given the way this book didn't look at the downside of things, it's no real surprise that the ending was a whole series of happily-ever-afters.
It really, really makes me wonder if the people who love it were born in a certain period, are of a certain gender, and were a certain age when they first read it.The story did not capture me at all.
(hide spoiler)]Dislikes: from a guy's perspective, describing a one-on-one duel with an opponent by saying "her sword flashed and the sash fluttered to the ground" is extremely lame.I thought her whole attitude to this thing was rather bland.
I do a fair bit of reading and this is the first book in a long while that made me space out in the middle of a page.
2.5 Stars, but I rounded up because of the world building.This is a story about a girl named Harry who goes to stay with a nice childless couple in a desert after the death of her father.
There was no change in fonts between when a character was thinking or talking, the names of the horses switched randomly between their Hill name and Outlander names, and the relationships were never given any depth.
Instead I found myself re-reading sentences, or paragraphs, throughout the entire story as well as forgetting some of the characters.A good part for me were the relationships with the animals!
But this is on top of a really problematic setting that makes me reluctant to recommend it to people.Angharad "Harry" Crewe's father passes away and she is sent from "Homeland" to her brother in colonial Daria on the borders of the northern desert power of ancient Damar .
Homeland is England, Daria is India, Damar is Afghanistan and the northern demonic horde are clearly Russians (especially given what was going on in the world as this book was being written around 1980-82).
Beautifully descriptive with plenty of action and magic, The Blue Sword has earned a place on my "books I read over and over again" shelf.The Blue Sword I found most fascinating and enjoyable for its setting.
Truly, this book could be read just for the description of tents and horses.
As a girl who was never into the Black Beauty series and never romanticized horses as a child, I nevertheless found the horses and riding to be some of the best descriptions in the book.
Harry often has moments of stating that she would really rather skip the mystery and know what is going on.
I enjoyed the story: a girl, going by the unusual nickname of Harry, gets kidnapped by natives (called Hillmen), learns their ways and effectively becomes a native, discovers she has magic, and becomes the key to saving her new people from the big, bad, nonhuman Northerners.
Learn a new language in a couple weeks?
Train and become an expert swordswoman in six weeks?
No sweat, just use the magic to pull the mountains down and bury the army.
There wasn't even anyone who disliked Harry or was jealous of her magic.
Everyone liked, respected, or admired her.
3.5 stars. It is somewhat slow, there is a Chosen One and it's a bit predictable, a classic fantasy tale. Still the story flows beautifully and I liked it very much. The narration is in third person with occasional first person touches, and it adds a lot to the allure of the places described. The female lead reminded me a little of the one of Mordant's Need and that was a good thing. I flew through this book."She is a true friend, but a friend with thoughts of her own, and the thoughts of others are dangerous.”
This was so much fun! A pure escapist fantasy read with an appealing heroine, interesting and even complex side characters and excellent world-building. One star off for the lack of a map and glossary.
After his warnings are ignored, Corlath leaves, but returns in the dark of night to steal Harry away, as his powers demand.
This begins a journey for Harry that opens up a whole new world and way of life to her.
I absolutely love both Harry and Corlath.
When the magic of the Hillfolk finds her, Corlath starts to soften toward her and begins to understand why he was called to take her.
Then Corlath has one of the Riders begin to train her as a female warrior.
I loved the way that Harry eventually takes to the training, though it is difficult at first.
So they turn to Harry’s new community for much needed help, but in the end, only Harry is brave enough to accept the challenge…..and only because she is abducted by the king of the hill-folk.McKinley wrote a coming of age story targeted at a young adult audience, that has all the elements I enjoy in high fantasy; adventure, magic, world building, battles, beautiful animals (which is not necessarily a fantasy element, but I need to point out that the author put a lot of love into her descriptions of horses and big cats; awesome stuff for horse-crazed little girls indeed!
