https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28701.Ratner_s_Star
Could it be that what we experience in the very small and very large is simply ourselves, that the technology is actually a mirror reflecting an image of the people who created it?The community investigating Ratner’s Star, Field Experiment Number One, resembles that of organisations like the Santa Fe Institute, or the Rand Corporation and other so-called ‘think tanks’ and ‘skunk works’ in which highly educated people of various academic stripes consider issues of deep import.
It’s enough to drive any serious scientist crazy.Billy, the fourteen year old protagonist and maths genius, meets community members in a series of down-the-rabbit-hole, Alice in Wonderland encounters while he literally explores the depths of Field Experiment Number One. It is clear that the epistemology of the the place is rather more flexible than that of conventional academia.
I felt I wasted two good days of reading time rather than the feeble attempt to confuse and impress with pseudo-science and pseudo-math in the first part (and here Pynchon is far superior in Mason&Dixon, Gravity's Rainbow, and Against the Day with far more intriguing apartés about math and science) and the (poor imitation of) Rothian sexual abandon in the second half.
If you really love reading good challenging and enlightening literature, don't look for it in Ratner's Star.
Initially, it is respected for its objectivity:“There is no reality more independent of our perception and more true to itself than mathematical reality.”“There may be a lot of crazy things in the world that scare you and me but mathematics is the one thing where there’s nothing to be afraid of or stupid about or think it’s a big mystery.”Ultimately, we discover that reason and logic are not sufficient to help us unravel the mysteries of the universe:“It’s not inconceivable that some things exist beyond the borders of rational inquiry.”Names and NumbersTraditionally, our ability to understand the world depends on words and numbers, or language and counting.
Not only is Billy freakishly smart, he also has the same childish wit as Hal. Two examples:"...noting in the mirror how unlike himself* he looked, neat enough in his sport coat and tie but unusually pale and somehow tired, as though this manufactured air were threatening his very flesh, drawing out needed chemicals and replacing them with evil solvents made in New Jersey.""'...lecture tours, talk shows, a quickie biography, t-shirts, funny buttons.
I've written about this before here, but here's an example from Ratner's Star:"Everywhere is a place.
Think of the word 'place.' A sun deck with views of gorgeous mountains.
I think that I missed something in the book, like DeLillo was doing something that I didn't quite catch, or I caught but I wasn't that impressed by it.
The narrative sort of reminded me of something that Gaddis might have tried to do (and the characters have a very Gaddis quality to them, and the way especially in the final section of the book that action and characters will shift for no discernible way made me think of the de-centering that Gaddis is such a master at in his 'big' novels), but (I hate to say this), at times many of the scenes felt like skits.
If Don Delillo is indeed a fan of Thomas Pynchon, this is the novel that Pynchon most directly inspired.
At fourteen years old, Billy has already won a Nobel Peace Prize for his work with "zorgs" (as near as I can figure, Delillo made this term up) and now lives a life of quiet seclusion at a mathematics academy for genius teenagers.
There's Henrik Endor, who, before Billy, failed to break the code and now lives in a hole, spending his days digging and feeding on larvae.
My favorite Delillo so far, by a wide margin, inclusive of Underworld.First Nobel in mathematics goes to teenage protagonist, whose work was “understood by only three or four people” (4), which work kid has designated as “zorgs” (20): “it’s pretty impossible to understand unless you know the language.
Routine horripilation” (265).The terror of the irrational that is inherent to the definition of science leads quite plainly into the second rule of the text: “By common consent the star code is no longer an ongoing project.
This is no bullshit and repetition of terminology - he's obviously done his homework - I see discussions of Higgs theory, the origins of language, and the intersection between the pursuit of science and the almost mystical devotions of mathematics/language.
This is dense reading, but DeLillo's fantastic prose style still illuminates.As an aside, I wonder how many contemporary authors have some sort of training in math/science?
DFW did work on modal logic and Wittgenstein, and Cormac McCarthy edits physics books in his spare time at the Santa Fe institute.
This split, in a very fundamental sense, marks the beginning of the dialectic of Enlightenment: it is the beginning of the rejection of mysticism or myth in favor of scientific-mathematical truth.But it is worth noting that Pythagoras himself fell on neither side of this divide, but believed that both myth (read: spirituality) and mathematics informed and depended upon one another.
I’d suggest DeLillo, or at least the younger DeLillo that wrote Ratner’s Star, was fully aware of Pythagoras’s mensch-ness, and wrote a (literary/untrue) novel about (mathematics/truth) to explore the tension and how to resolve it.
Furthermore, while the novel tries to tell the fascinating story of decoding transmissions from far-off Ratner's Star, this terrific premise is unfortunately dropped off the nearest convenient cliff for long stretches at a time, only to be awkwardly shoehorned in later.What saves this one's bacon, besides the fact that DeLillo is always funny, are the big long intellectual monologues, which are clumsily delivered and as subtle as a sledgehammer to the face but which are about topics that interest me.
Totally tedious. Made me regret that I can't stop reading a book once I start it. Put me to sleep after 3 pages every night. It's that kind of pretentious, look how smart I am, off-kilter writing that a college math freshman would probably spooge over. The beginning is fun and sucked me in enough that I waded through to the end for the somewhat predictable payoff. I guess if you like math give it a try...
There is plentiful evidence of DeLillo's brilliance strewn throughout these pages, but for the most part the going is laboriously slow. In the imaginative conclusion, math and science are revealed to be just as much a creation of the human mind as mysticism and language, where no single one of these approaches is any more able than another to objectively answer the question: "What is the universe as it exists beyond the human brain?"
This story of a young mathematician hired to attempt to decode a message received from the vicinity of Ratner’s Star ticked a lot of boxes for me almost thirty years ago.And I do owe this book a huge debt of gratitude.
He is recruited into a team of 30 other Nobel laureates who are working to understand a bizarre radio message received from the eponymous Ratner’s Star.
non farmi venire istinti omicidi libreschi.- Il delirio può anche essere considerato una forma d'arte, ma sinceramente non me ne frega un accidente.
Devo già decodificare quotidianamente i comportamenti schizzati dei miei simili, per avere ancora voglia di farlo anche leggendo un libro.- Ho capito perchè l'unica versione reperibile in italiano de La stella di Ratner è quella rilegata e fighettosa (la prima edizione): visto il numero inconsistente delle vendite (e di quello, credo, consistente degli invenduti), l'editore avrà deciso di non pubblicare una versione economica di questa "perla" (giustamente).- Mi piacerebbe sapere cosa si è fumato, ingurgitato, sniffato DeLillo durante la stesura di questo libro.
I was not able to appreciate this one. It felt as if DeLillo was struggling between describing a teenager discovering sexuality and a genius kid who does nothing other than wandering the Center. Even though DeLillo was praised for his ability to investigate maths and physics, etc, I wasn't able to make sense of much of what was described.
Ratner’s Star is a prodigious satire on those pioneers who journey beyond the frontiers of knowledge and end up more ignorant than they were when they set forth.Billy, our Nobel Prize winning mathematical genius, is but a mere pup catapulted into an arena of world renown crazies and fellow mathematicians on a scary hyper-genius level.
But this, according to Mainwaring, quoting Mohole, is simply what we do to keep from going mad.”Just when the book becomes fascinating, when we delve deeper into the mystery of the message sent to them from space, a character goes on a psycho babble rampage, and they dismiss the importance of said mystery outright.
Commentary on science and astronomy and a study on brilliant minds and how they relate (?)Despite the interesting premise, this book was torture to read.
The characters were not integrated into the plot - not only did you (slowly and painstakingly) read along as Billy worked on the message, you tried to solve the mystery of why DeLillo included about 90% of the characters.
The science, math, astronomy may be interesting to a very small minority, but it wasn't explained or integrated well, so those completing those sections was as fun as reading a dishwashing machine manual.
Reading this has been like panning for gold in a mud-riven creek bed. There were a few flakes of value but not even enough of them to buy a new mule. And my brain now feels like it could use a thorough hosing or beer bath.
Hard to talk about this one. For now, I’ll just quote Tree Man II: “All in fi nite sets are in fi nite but some are more in fi nite than others.” 3.4 ratners
Qui, attraverso lo sguardo ingenuo di Billy, DeLillo descrive personaggi bizzarri e surreali (premi Nobel) dannatamente perduti nelle loro stesse ambiziose ricerche lunghe una vita intera, e sembra voler dire alla comunità scientifica (forse un po' presuntuosa negli anni '70) che il profondo e il superficiale, il visibile e l'invisibile, il lato oscuro e il luminoso, il contenuto e il contenitore, non sono una questione meramente numerica, ma c'è forse dell'altro...
"Solo avvicinandosi alla superficie riflettente di una porta elettronica che si stava aprendo si accorse di avere ancora in faccia i baffi finti"I riflessi (che occupano la seconda parte del libro) sono lo specchio da decifrare, il Logicon - da analizzare scrivere accrescere - che sembra giustificare l'esistenza delle avventure senza però riuscire a spiegarne l'arco vitale.
Maybe it was more of an audio skim.This is basically a philosophically playful novel that has some issues with science, math and logic.
He takes on a position in secret research group staffed full of exceptional scientists from a variety of different fields, many of them very strange and well outside stem-stuff, who are working to figure out an extraterrestrial message that came from an object known as Ratner's Star.
The last part of the book has Billy involved with a group trying to come up with a perfectly logical language that any being could understand simply by following the logic.
The intellectual hilarity is, as noted in many a review, somewhat Pynchon-esque (I am only now reading those) yet uniquely Delillo-y.I've not yet finished it as I am doing so in a sort of circular motion -- somewhat like the flip side of experiencing a Gertrude Stein, who is so delightfully Gertrude Stein-ish, in a manner so very Gertrude Stein-ly --- re-reading sentences on average of three times till I am sure I get the joke and the point, despite my lack of mathematical prowess.
The plot(s) is/are reminiscent of the word problems in university math classes yet with oddball characters throughout each scenario and an inherent punchline in every sentence.

This is a shaggy dog of a book, written broadly as satire of a certain kind of discourse prevalent in academia and industrial science, but without any plot, character, or emotional hooks.
This is a book where every character is consumed by intellectual pursuits, and the themes of mysticism and its relation to mathematics are examined with the fervor and jumpiness of a cokehead's monologue.
Rather, DeLillo stands up each of these characters as comic archetypes or mouthpieces for certain aspects of his own point of view, provided in more or less manic fashion.
Mi hanno detto di parlare con un certo signor Dyne.- Che cosa vuole?- Le nostre Bibbie sono incollate e cucite a mano da profughi.
Possiamo vedere film di Charlton Heston a raffica in ogni momento.
- Beghina."cit.2"- Se mai le capitasse di finire in prigione, -disse Kyzyl, - tra i pochi posti buoni che rimangono ci sono le regioni autonome.
Parlando di torture psicologiche, le enclave repubblicane e i protettorati del Golfo non sono tra i posti peggiori.
Nei protettorati, e parlo per esperienza personale, incappucciano con moderazione, non esagerano con i rumori monotoni, deprivano i corpi del sonno solo in rari casi.

first half: a clever (though definitely off-kilter) satire of the scientific community peppered with allusions to philosophy. Also, it's pretty funny.second half: digresses into an incomprehensible vortex of weirdness, leaving all possible insights or coherence buried under piles of bat guano ... literally.The entire second part seems oddly extraneous, or maybe I'm just not intelligent enough to grasp it.
More thoughts to come, but this was rather confounding for me. My reactions varied widely; for a good stretch I'd be delighting in the reverie of abstract theory after theory, bordering on slapstick. An amusing inundation on the reader. Other stretches this same stimuli overload became turgid causing my eyes to glaze over. I can't say this is my favorite Delillo book, but it certainly adds another dimension to his oeuvre that I had yet to experience.
What a load of pretentious, incoherent nonsense this was. The author is undoubtedly tremendously intelligent, or at least educated, and he knows it. And he will make absolute sure that you will, too. But aside from that it would be nice if he could write a paragraph that holds together, which, I grant you, is not a fashionable thing to do in the period we're talking of.
One of the first Delillo novels, where I actually considered not finishing at two or three points. Very slap-sticky if you can geek out on the math/science commentary. It read kind of like a Kubrick movie.
