https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156865.The_Yellow_House_Mystery
How do they just keep picking up strays in every book? Introducing more and more characters. Also - that mans house is going to run out of room to keep housing everyone. Going from living alone to suddenly having 8 roommates and a dog? No thank you.
Good story...but weird illustrations.
It's interesting I guess from a historical perspective because it just keeps leaving me wondering if kids in the 50s were super obsessed with food or if maybe this is a personal after-effect of hers from living through the depression etc?Another thing that is kind of a disconnect between how people probably read this in the past and how it comes across today is the family's money situation.
Definitely a weird series to read as an adult but as a kid I didn't notice any of this stuff so it's an interesting thing to revisit.
Violet reminds Benny that the newlyweds aren't necessarily going to want the kids around all the time, even though they all live in the same house.
Benny blithely replies that the kids should make up a list of activities and get the new couple to come along with them, then!
Sod little Benny, it's okay if he and the others get pneumonia, but we must look after our shrinking Violet.
I want to start a new series and call it “Boxcar Therapy” where the Boxcar children are in their 30s and Violet confronts her crippling anxiety, Henry deals with his bisexual tendencies, Benny is married and expects his wife to treat him like his family did and they’re in therapy cause he’s a spoiled little jerk, and Jessie deals with the depression she’s carrying from always having to be the responsible one.I can see them sitting on the couch, Violet with a cigarette in her hand, blowing out the smoke and saying “every time I look at pine needles.
The Yellow House Mystery is about how the Boxcar Children find out how a man named Bill Macgregor vanishes in the summer. They find a note that says to go to Bare Trail to find 'THE MONEY ' as the book said. They go to Bare Trail and they find a man who lives in the woods. He is called Dave Hunter. They have to find 'THE MONEY' and Bill. Maybe Dave Hunter is Bill Macgregor. You have to read the book to find out what happens.
I found like five typing mistakes in this but it just adds to the quirkiness in owning such an old book.
He lends his sketchy brother his boss's money without any explanation about what will be done with it.
Then he fails to make clear arrangements for how he will get the money back, so when his brother dies unexpectedly, he doesn't know where to find the money.2.
In an attempt to get the money from Bill, the sketchy brother's equally sketchy friends tell him that his wife has died in a fire.
Instead of going back to his kind boss/family friend and explaining the situation and, I don't know, confirming if his wife is alive, BIll decides to become a hermit and mourn his not-actually-dead wife.
I reread this book as an adult and I can see what my friend was saying about classism in the books.
There definitely is some sense that non-wealthy people don't count in Ms. Warner's world.
But the world is fun and the struggles and independence of the kids feel believable.
There is some sexual division of labor, but it reads like Ms. Warner was a feminist for her time period - she believed that girls could do just as much and contribute just as much as boys, even if she acknowledged they were physically weaker and might do more cooking and caring rather than physical labor.I think these books would still very much be good for kids today and perhaps might help encourage them to engage in physical activities and be outside.
The Boxcar Children are trying to solve a 40 year old mystery that takes them from Surprise Island all the way up to Maine on a rugged and amazing camping trip.I really enjoyed reading this book. I loved the descriptions of camping. And thought that the book as a whole came to a really satisfying conclusion. Great series!
i love reading box car to my brothers. me and my brothers love the mysterys in the box car sires.
it was exciting and u could also at the end of the story guess who was the person they were looking for.
The boys really enjoyed this mystery and couldn't wait to find out what happened next. Me? I think I'm done reading Boxcar Children books
The best word I have to describe this book would be “quaint”.Written in the 1950’s, it gives off a very Pleasantville vibe.
Of course, this was written for children, therefore I’m sure the characters were intended to model ideal behavior.As to the mystery - it was fairly straightforward.
Again, very much intended for children.
I’d be very curious if kids today would find these stories interesting or if they would just be confused/blown away by the old-fashioned technology.Read for the 2018 Reading Challenge prompt, “A book with your favorite color in the title”.
While revisiting the yellow house on surprise island the Alden kids learn of the mystery of their housekeepers long lost husband.
Following his 40 year old trail, they end up in the woods.
A strange nomads lives deep in the woods and they happen upon his home.
Hearing about his story, they figure out that he might be the long lost Bill.
Bill had taken money from Mr. Alden and misplaced it and had been to ashamed to go back without it.
The Alden kids help find the money and bring Bill back home for a grand reunion.
A sweet little mystery with the Alden kids from the original Box Car Children book. In this story, the kids discover a mystery surrounding the yellow house on Surprise Island, and they are determined to solve the mystery and find the missing man, Bill. They take a trip upstate on their search, and discover the truth.A fun, clean, simple read that is a great introductory mystery book for kids. My older kids love this whole series, but I read this book to my five year old son, and he just loved it.A
This is only the second book in the series that I have read but I do dare say that the series may be less appealing to today's young readers. The settings of the mysteries are fine and maybe the sole reason children would read these books. The writing is easy but dull. Every second of the adventure is recorded, leaving the reader to wonder "is it all important". I think that there are better stories in the market which present more engaging stories with better writing.
The Yellow House Mystery is the first book in the Boxcar Mystery series to have a real mystery and is one my favorites. Readers will enjoy this fun quick read with a wonderful canoeing/camping adventure mixed in with the mystery. It is a great introduction to the mystery genre for young readers.Recommended for grades 2-4. Lexile level: 440Reviewed by Christine Hwang, Youth and School Services, Vernon Area Public Library
I am reading this series for the first time, and while I don't love these books personally so far, my two young sons (ages 3 and 5) are absolutely loving every minute of our read-aloud time. These are the first chapter books they have ever sat still for. There must be some magic here that my grown-up mind doesn't get! Regardless, since my boys enjoyed this one, it's a win for me too.
I'm not very excitable and this book is vary fun and exciting to me no doubt about that. I chouse this rating because I love it nd it makes me very excited about reading and I hope to read all of the bopks
Enjoyed this one more than Surprise Island. A bit far-fetched with the mystery solving and the end is super predictable, but still enjoyable. The Bear Trail journey was more on par with the adventure in the original Boxcar Children book, which I appreciate.
I read this book as a child and now am reading it with my kids. The ever optimistic Alden children are at it again! It’s amazing what a kind word and selfless action can do. What is the mystery of the mystery ranch?
Another charming book in this quaint series. It is a fun little mystery and also has some interesting bits about canoeing and camping. I enjoy reading the books in this series because they remind me of books I read in school when I had just learned to read well.
Installment #3 and still interesting. Such a quaint group of children very neat characters and intertwining stories. Such simplistic mysteries involved however very cozy quick reading. The Boxcar Children series is fantastic!
Still thoroughly enjoying my trip down memory lane with the Alden children. The mysteries are predictable and uncomplicated but great for the age group.
I'm surprised that I never got into.this series as a kid. These are the kind of stories I loved growing up.
I liked the Yellow House Mystery more than Surprise Island. I enjoyed the "mystery" of the story and think that children would as well. I did catch myself getting bored throughout.
Cool mystery !!! The grandsons enjoyed it !!!
A wonderful & adventurous story! The Boxcar Children has always been a favorite series of mine.
