https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61998.Doorways_in_the_Sand
I was hoping for despair, but you can't have everything all at once."Fred's lengthy and varied university education gives Zelazny a chance to play with a wide range of intellectual references and ideas.
While I know I enjoyed reading this book in high school, more years of education and experience have given me even greater appreciation for the casual and wide-ranging references--surely that is a book that stands the test of time.In the tradition of the caper, Fred's methods are occasionally questionable (although his ethics are solid): "Time means a lot to me, paperwork wastes it, and I have always been a firm believer in my right to do anything I cannot be stopped from doing.
In the 180 pages of this zany, funny and intelligent SF novel, Roger Zelazny tells the story of Fred Cassidy, an eternal college student doing his level best to never graduate, who gets caught up in a strange mystery of a missing alien artifact, the star-stone, which has no known purpose.
It's a brilliant achievement, one of those books I'll have to read two or three times to try to catch everything that Zelazny is doing, and even then I'll probably miss half of it.An incredibly fun and strange mental workout.
You know, a part of me really wishes I could have pulled off the same trick the book's protagonist did for 13 years - remain a perpetual student supported by a cryogenically frozen uncle, free to expand my horizons, create Lobachevsky-worthy mathematical odes to beauty, and not ever having to graduate to the real adult world."'Let there be an end to thought. Thus do I refute Descartes.' I sprawled, not a cogito or a sum to my name." However, when the real adult world comes equipped with aliens u
The enjoyment that is solely due to the charm of the never-ending smartly funny banter inside the protagonist's head that Zelazny treats us to for much-too-short pages of this book."The hot sands had had shouted them through me all afternoon, then night’s frigid breezes had whispered the motto at the overdone lamb chop, my ear: "You are a living example of the absurdity of things."Fred Cassidy, as I mentioned above, is a perpetual student by day and an acrophiliac in his spare time (as in love of heights, or climbing tall buildings in Fred's case).
Now if you want to read a fascinating—if a tiny little bit disjointed—list of some of the fairly wacky stuff that makes this book one of the best I've ever read in the entirety of my entire life, then by all means, stick with me and my solitary grey cell, Little Gertrude.
Always.Especially not this one.And if there is one thing that this book taught me is that being half stoned leaves one half sober.
Sufficient to say it is easy to see the influence of Alice in Wonderland on this novel – Zelazny himself did not deny it and even used some quotes from the classic book (“curiousier and curiousier”).
I forgot to mention, the narration is not exactly straightforward but for people that has not read the book (and why have not you done this, especially if you are a fan of science fiction, I might ask) I will not spoil it.
Have you even wanted to read Alice in Wonderland in science fiction settings?
It is also more fun to read this one in a group as some things could be overlooked during the first time.
*** 5 +++ ***Yeah, we are the Roger Zelazny Newbies Group and I wonder what has taken me so long to read any of his stuff!!!  "..."Enter, pray.""In which order?"O bless this house, by all means, first. It could use a little grace.""Bless," I said, stepping in.”..." I am not sure how to start this review, nor what to write really... So, the blessing seemed like a good way to enter:) I loved every second of this book! Every page, every chapter and every sentence! I even loved the inconsistencies i
So, the blessing seemed like a good way to enter:) I loved every second of this book!
I even loved the inconsistencies in logic from time to time, even for an episode of Fred Cassidy's life, who states at one point:
His soul purpose, for some good reasons of his own, is to stay a full time student for as long as he can, piling up on credits, knowledge, and opportunities to live life the way he sees best.
And his goal of perpetual studentship was going just fine, until two hoodlums start harassing his friends, the school and himself, searching for a stone he had been in close proximity to at one point in time.
For one, I never actually intended to re-read this one, and it's only thanks to a few bookish friends here that I ever felt the need.
Right?During the first half of the novel, I kept saying to myself that this novel would be a fantastic humor-laden modern SF, including major building-climbing stunts, kangaroos with wire-rimmed glasses, wombats, and raisins, the most nutritious whiskey drinks ever devised, and looking through a mirrored universe.
I think it has held up extremely well and despite its clever cliffhangers with every chapter and Mirror's Edge kind of action escapades, this is a novel that is intelligent right down to it's sentence-core.
Long story short, an alien artifact goes missing and a lot of people think Fred has it.
The rest of the book is the quest to find the star stone and stay alive.
Thankfully, Fred has help in the form of a talking wombat and a talking kangaroo...The plot is more complicated than I'm letting on but I don't want to give too much away.
The plot isn't what drew me to the book, though.
The grabber for me was the style that Zelazny chose to tell the story.
It's a Zelanzy story.
5 Reasons To Read Doorways in the Sand:  (you can also read this post on my blog.) Reason #1. We Are Talking Assassin's Creed + Scifi Here The main character climbs buildings to relax. You could find him on the roof of a university campus building on a quiet evening any day. In fact, the campus has even come up with specific rules regarding this, because of him. I don't know about you, but it only makes me think of this: Reason #2. Oh My Gosh, The Aliens! They are so refreshing! The aliens dres
5 Reasons To Read Doorways in the Sand:
We Are Talking Assassin's Creed + Scifi Here
(view spoiler)[So I was very partial to the villain.
let's just say all aliens follow the same style in this book.
Only, you know, more in style.
If you're tired of serious spacey sci-fi, then Doorways in the Sand is the right book for you.
I thought we were already clear about this when I told you about the roof-climbing protag and the kangaroo aliens!!
Anything else would be a spoiler.
Other Books You Might Like
Doorways in the Sand
Doorways in the Sand
Well, here comes the unpopular opinion!I didn't love this book and I'm kinda upset about it, because I love Zelazny, but it just didn't work for me this time.
Especially when you don't get a slightest thing what is going on and it starts sort of annoy you.
I like mysteries but I also like to unravel mysteries together with protagonists and here it was simply impossible.
And it all with the protagonist I didn't really care that much for.Also, I guess I made a mistake by choosing a translation which probably did no favors to the original language of the book.
Our hero, Fred, is as average as any Zelazny character - that is to say while he has no extraordinary powers, his sanity, habits & life philosophy aren't strictly normal.
We then start the next chapter without the cliff hanger being resolved - it must be, but we don't know how.
We get caught up in the new situation, only to be brought back to resolving the original situation & then work ourselves back into the next cliff hanger & start it all over again.
Told in a standard fashion, the story would be above average, but not one of his better works.
We need that diversity – all those viewpoints and unique approaches to the problems life serves up wherever it occurs." On a personal level, Fred Cassidy has reached the point where he has to leave the safety of the academic circles and do something useful for society, to climb another wall, to explore the unknown:  If you have to do something, it is fortunate if it can be something interesting, something more than a little enjoyable.
This is my first Zelazny and I don't think I was prepared for what I got but I went along with it and certainly enjoyed the ride.I've heard many things about the author and had wanted to give him a shot and this one fell onto my radar a number of years ago after some excellent reviews so I went with this one.
Simple, this is not.One thing that I really enjoyed was the starting a new chapter with the lead character in a predicament that you don't learn about how he got there until you read further into the chapter.
I've seen it done in novels where the book starts in the action and you don't know what is going on (I'm looking at you Dresden!) but never every chapter.
I could tell you that I am giving this five stars (thinking about six) because I review things for what they are and this little beauty transcends all its genres to become something that is, while small, also quite amazing.
But more than that, I am five starring this because I finished it an hour ago and I am still grinning ear to ear, still filled with the hope and beauty and humor of the thing.
(Won the Hugo back then, too.) If everybody wrote books this well, we in the postmodern world would all be kids running down the aisles with armfuls of treasure all the time.
Permanent student and acrophiliac Fred Cassidy (he's managed to stay in college for 13 years so far, without getting kicked out despite climbing every building on campus) gets pulled into an intergalactic thriller when an artifact shared as part of a goodwill mission between aliens and humans goes missing.
(Which seems to be half the point of reading Roger Zelazny.) All the important details are dropped in, and it all came together brilliantly at the end.
Thanks Evgeny for starting the Roger Zelazny Newbies group and getting me to read this!
And, as I said, the plot twists and revelations are all superbly done.I’ll admit that the cover art of my edition (and the description on the back) made me think this would be more of a “galactic” sci-fi tale (for lack of a better term), but the vast majority of the book takes place on Earth in what could easily pass for modern-day society (there aren’t a bunch of flying cars zipping around, or robots tending bars, or laser-fights).
I don’t think you’d need to be a big sci-fi fan to like it.
Doorways in the Sand is one of my favorite Zelazny novels; I think it tends to be sadly overlooked in the wake of his classic award-winners and the Amber books, and because it had a really poor cover upon its initial release.
It hasn't aged as well as some of his other books, but it's still a great trip.
The protagonist (a climber; I always idly wondered if Doorways in the Sand mightn't have been an influence on the development of Parkour) is introduced as someone who loves to learn and study and wants nothing more than to be a perpetual student...
that sounds like a great idea, doesn't it?
I have to say that this is only the second novel I read by Zelazny, but I found it funny and engaging, although often slightly surreal.The story is focused on Fred Cassidy, eternal university student, with the obsession to scale buildings at all hours of day and night and the innate ability to be able to avoid the degree.
It’s a science fiction story, for the obvious presence of alien cultures, but it is also a mistery, where page after page the reader will follow the adventures of Fred, until you get to the solution of the mystery.
First a confession - I am one of the few that hasn't enjoyed the stylistic humour of the venerable Douglas Adams and Terry Pratchett.
Fortunately, Roger Zelazny weaves together a wonderful narrative with insightful humour and wordplay that both provokes and entertains the reader in equal measure.
Zelazny employs an unusual narrative device in the structuring of the story - each chapter jumps ahead in time before backtracking to resolve the previous chapter's cliffhanger and then moving forward to a new cliffhanger which will only later resolve in the next chapter.
A very accessible and entertaining read for anybody that has not had the privilege of reading Zelazny's body of work.
First Hardcover Edition signed by Roger Zelazny.
The first 2/3 of the book are great fun, light science fiction with good solid science.
Unfortunately, the last 1/3 is pretty contrived and over-the-top.Reminds me of a student friend of mine at MIT in the 1970s, Russ W., who also managed to never quite graduate for many, many years!Nice quote"As a student of business administration, I know that there is a law of evolution for organizations as stringent and inevitable as anything in life.
now the book is great fun." 37.0% "...
this was great fun, very cute until 2/3 the way through.
I didn't get far with this one, as the (alleged) humor just wasn't working for me. Zelazny has always been a hit-or-miss author for me. This was a definite "miss."
I first read this novel more than thirty years ago when I was a teenager and Zelazny was my science fiction hero.
I never thought this to be among the best of his novels and did wonder if after such a gap of time I would still enjoy it.
The answer is a resounding yes!
Witty, inventive and intelligent at all times, the book has stood the test of time.
Still, it is a test of a novel's quality that such matters do not detract from the overall experience of pleasure when reading a novel for the second time.
Some elements of Roger Zelazny’s Doorways in the Sand haven’t aged well in the 40 years since it was first published.
But Zelazny more than makes up for those near-anachronisms by sending readers on a roller coaster of a ride.Equal parts hard science-fiction novel and suspense thriller, Doorways in the Sand follows the cynical, aimless but very clever Cassidy, who has spent the last 13 years as a full-time university student, due to the peculiarities of Cassidy’s uncle’s will.
Zelazny in comedy mode!
Unlike most tongue-in-cheek novels, this tale also delivers on cleverness.
There is suspense, and it is more of an adventure story than a comedy story, but only just.
The typical Zelazny elements are here- clever allusions, laconic narration, and a lovable rogue protagonist.
Each chapter begins by jumping forward into an exciting and confusing moment, then switching to flashback to explain how Fred got into that fix.
I thought it was an interesting, suspenseful device, but apparently some readers found it jarring and confusing.
Zelazny is an acquired taste, and this kind of trickiness is part of the package.Check it out!
4.5 starsThis is my first Roger Zelazny, and I wasn't sure what to expect, but boy was it fun.
The main character, Fred Cassidy, had a charming, clever voice, and I laughed out loud a lot while reading this.
Zelazny lost me a couple of times with some of the more sciency/mathy explanations of what was going on.
But being periodically confused in no way spoiled the story for me.
He had an interesting style of ordering the events of the story too, and the back and forth along the timeline took some getting used to.
Loufoque est le qualificatif employé sur 4e de couverture pour ce roman de ZELAZNY Un auteur que je 
I read this as an academic dean at Loyola University Chicago and loved the part with Fred Cassidy, the perpetual undergraduate, and Dennis Wexworth, his academic advisor, trying to outwit one another. I rarely laugh aloud when reading and don't find much humor humorous, but this little piece of silly sf fluff was an exception.
Read this after Jo Walton’s rec on Tor. I agree that the style can be wearisome which is why it took me so long to finish it, but I love the character and his approach to (higher) education. And the language is delightful as well.
Doorways in the Sand (1976) is a delightfully complicated chase tale involving a quasi-sentient McGuffin and an entire galactic community.
