https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11594257-under-the-never-sky
eventually, the main characters, Aria and Perry, are what stacked it back to being a great read.There's a lot to like about Rossi's futuristic science-fiction novel.
We love your first copy but we're concerned about this Aether thing.
How does it work?"Rossi sits back in her chair and kicks her feet up onto the editor's table.
How did it come to be there?"Rossi shrugs casually.
They'll figure out this Aether shit.
The End.So basically, I like this book, and even if Rossi does eat raw falcon eggs, I like her characters and I like her style.And hopefully you will too.
My partner also bailed about halfway through our readalong, if that counts for anything.Here's what I liked about the book:--The overall concept--Occasional humor in the writing--Interesting shorthand for words, which makes sense in a futuristic society: "champ," "rancy," "wrathy" are all great examples of the way language might evolve or devolve, depending on how you look at it--cool "Smarteye" technology--a couple of interesting action sequences (view spoiler)[including a decapitation!
And even if we got answers, they didn't really provide lightbulb moments so much as a grudging concession that an attempt was made to explain something.Overall, this book felt similar to me to Blood Red Road, Divergent, and Legend, in that they are all very much action-oriented stories.
Third read review :  What can I say, other that I love this book so much. This is the third time I read it and thankfully, my feelings don't change toward this book. However, I did wish I didn't remember about the plot as vividly as I did, because I would enjoy reading it a lot more. I'm not saying I didn't enjoy it, because I enjoyed reading it, but due to me remembering the plot very well, I just didn't really feel surprised, but sometimes I did for certain scenes that I didn't remember. Some
This is the third time I read it and thankfully, my feelings don't change toward this book.
I'm rereading it for the third time, because I want to make sure whether I still love my favorite book or not.
The first time I read this book was two years ago and that time I loved it so much so few days ago I decided to reread it and I was afraid for days.
I know this will sound weird or cheesy but Peregrine is my first book - boyfriend and I really really love him and I didn't want ( I still don't ) to ...
I don't read a lot of Dystopian novels, so I was really surprised in myself!Our heroine, Aria has lived her whole life in the protected dome of Reverie.
She's never thought about what life is like outside the dome's doors.
So, when Aria's mother goes missing, she knows her chances of surviving are not very good.
She them meets an outsider named Perry, who is also searching for someone too.
He's an absolute savage, but he's Aria's best hope of surviving.
PERRY IS PERFECT!I fell in love with him straightaway.
I don't read enough books when the heroine's like this!
Food is scarce, climate dangerous, the living is primal, only the fittest survives.Aria belongs to the sheltered kind, Perry - to the savage kind.
The priorities are straight here - there are more important things in the characters' lives than a few days-long romantic relationships, things like families and loyalties.
There is a soft spot in my heart for a guy who is understanding of and helpful during the special lady days (aka periods).Basically, Under the Never Sky, in my eyes, is a perfect mix of adventure and love, sci-fi and romance, entertainment and heartbreak.
Well, this sure isn’t your usual dystopian read. It was quite captivating, but not actually perfect. I enjoyed many things about it, such as the little twists, that were mostly unpredictable, the unique characters and the romance. ‘‘This was my first kiss,’’ she said. ‘‘My first real one.’’ ‘‘Felt like the first real one for me, too.’’ Aria and Perry were so beautiful together. To be honest, there is a lot lot lot of angst in this since around 75% of the story is based on them getting to know ea
I enjoyed many things about it, such as the little twists, that were mostly unpredictable, the unique characters and the romance.
What I mean is that, there may not have been a grand quantity of events in it, but I still wasn’t what we can call ‘bored.’ I anyways wanted to know what would happen next because that’s just how connected to the characters I was and I’m pretty sure the lively (yet sometimes very poignant) ambience had to do with it as well.Overall, this was a book I enjoyed reading.
I think this book will appeal to a lot of people, but at the same time will turn others off.
Aria lives in a world where her people live in pods and fear the outside world dubbed The Death Shop due to the cannibals and Aether storms that wreak havoc on the land.
One day Aria is exiled from her pod city, Reverie, and embarks on a journey with an outsider named Perry to find her way back into her society.
We don't know what caused Aria's society to live in pods.
In many ways, they are the privileged class, but their entire existence is a lie facilitated by the use of virtual reality.Outside of the dweller compounds there are several different "tribes".
They are as harsh as the environment in which they live.When Aria is cast out of her dweller compound, she sets off in search of her mother.
Amidst the danger, Perry and Aria's relationship grows into far more than a partnership based on necessity.
Outsiders and dwellers do not like one another.While there were parts of this story that I did enjoy, like the love story between Aria and Perry.
He jerked when she traced the shape of the wings on his skin, a groan sliding out of him. Perry silently cursed himself. He couldn't have sounded more savage if he'd tried.   4.5 stars. I fell so in love with this book that I scrapped my original thought to do a rolling montage of a girl walking in combat boots with her hair blowing in the wind while the theme song of The Young And The Restless played in the background. I realized that I just wanted to talk about the damn book without being s
Not the "spirit fingers" type of flair, but she has that certain "something" when it comes to her writing which makes me want to be dropped down into the middle of this crappy dystopic world and spend time with Aria, Perry and Roar - simply because I want to be in the presence of such dynamic personalities.The writing style was third person rotating PoV's.
We'll be here all night if I tell you everything I liked about the story, so I'm going to end this review with the main reason why I will be gushing about this book : the characters.
Aria is a Dweller, a girl who grew up in virtual Realms her whole life, sheltered by the Pods, living her life through the make-believe worlds she accesses through her Smarteye, the eyepatch that lets her tap into her virtual reality.
These two complete strangers from opposite worlds enter into an uneasy partnership to rescue the people most beloved to them, finding through their journey that the things they never questioned before need to be examined after all.
The narrative is told from dual perspectives, so we get a clear picture of both Perry and Aria's lives, their prejudices, their beliefs, their emotions.
I thought Tatiana's comparisons between this and Blood Red Road were spot on, Under the Never Sky is definitely a very similar kind of book but without the strange dialect that sometimes made the other difficult to appreciate at times. They both focus on the dystopian aspect, instead of getting caught up in a romantic whirlwind, they both feature a journey that keeps the novels fast-paced and interesting, and I can honestly say that I cared about the characters in both books.The romance, when i
I thought Tatiana's comparisons between this and Blood Red Road were spot on, Under the Never Sky is definitely a very similar kind of book but without the strange dialect that sometimes made the other difficult to appreciate at times.
He does seem to think that monthly ladythings smell like violets but, oh well, nobody gets it right all the time...As well as Blood Red Road, I recognised similarities between this and another dystopia I've read recently: Pure.
Actual rating: 4.5/5 Peregrine starsUnder the Never Sky is the book one in this series and before you start it, I strongly suggest you read its novella, Roar and Liv first so that you can have better understanding about what happened to Liv in this book.**Setting**Unlike the novella, this time the story was told in the third-person POV, and alternated between Perry and Aria's viewpoints.
Not knowing what Perry was capable of, Aria didn't think twice before showing her emotions or thoughts when she was around him, and that was how he realized that a part of him was really curious about this "Mole." “Perry stepped out as soon as the elevator doors parted.
The writing style is way too choppy, and there are so many pronouns that I get lost on what the heck is going on.
However, maybe it is me since many other readers have no problems reading it AND clearly they enjoy it.
So, don't let my inability to read this book stop you from giving it a try.
I know you can't believe it but yeah, I was wrong.This turned out to be a good book with a bad, boring start.
I'll write more later (I'm sure you've heard that before but no, I gotta catch up on my reviews eventually).
4.5 stars. Why are more people not talking about these books?! This trilogy was so fun! It's probably my favorite dystopian series aside from The Hunger Games. The characters are all likable and the first 2 books are really well done! (The third one kind of falls apart, but that also seems to fit the bill for dystopian YA trilogies). I read it so long ago I don't have a ton of detailed thoughts, but I just had to share that I really enjoyed it and recommend it!
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || Pinterest🦇 Read for the Unapologetic Romance Readers  Halloween 2018 Reading Challenge  for the category of: A post-apocalyptic romance 🦇When it comes to genres with a lot of hype, like romance and YA, there's a bit of an "Emperor's new clothes" phenomenon in that some people just seem to get sucked up into all of the praise and excitement and end up rating the book higher because of how their experience of reading it ties into the crowd mentality.
for the category of: A post-apocalyptic romance 🦇When it comes to genres with a lot of hype, like romance and YA, there's a bit of an "Emperor's new clothes" phenomenon in that some people just seem to get sucked up into all of the praise and excitement and end up rating the book higher because of how their experience of reading it ties into the crowd mentality.
I must admit, my sympathies lay more with Perry - especially when Aria plunges headfirst into a coven of cannibals.I've read a lot of YA dystopian novels and I think UNDER THE NEVER SKY has more in common with the bad ones than the good ones.
They have changed their biology and physiology so much that the females don't even menstruate anymore!So, our main character, Aria, gets exiled into the wastelands and meets Peregrine (Perry) an Outsider.
They form an unlikely and unwilling alliance - Aria wants to find her mom and Perry his nephew.Stuff happens.
Perry and Aria go a place that is protected where a man named Marron is in charge and they live like relatively "normal" people.
Perry's kind live in tribes.Those born in the wastelands can have abilities.
Aria bugged me at first, but she really grows!This was just A++++ writing and story-telling, in my view.
3 stars   “A world of nevers under a never sky.”   Well kiddies, I am in the minority again. While I enjoyed this book, it lacked the wow factor that I was expecting from it, especially since many of the ratings are 4 and 5 stars. Under the Never Sky  is about Aria, a Dweller, and Perry an Outsider. Both live in a dystopian world placed hundreds of years after our present. After a fatal incident brings Aria and Perry together, both of them are cast out from their groups and must battle to survi
Under the Never Sky  is about Aria, a Dweller, and Perry an Outsider.
They harbor an extreme dislike for each other, but after working toward a common goal their feelings begin to change.
While it did, I sort of never lost that tidbit of confusion throughout the rest of the book.
Honestly, the world building was way too half-assed and the plot faded into the background for the majority of the book.And then the ending felt too much like it ended purely to have 1 book become a trilogy.
I did like it, I just didn't love it.
Perry pretty much saved the book for me.
Update March 06thBack to regular price!♥♥♥♥♥SPECIAL DEAL ALERT ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥February 28th!Not for us Aussies because Harper Collins doesn't think we're an important market, :P but my American friends can buy this book at special price. 0.99 cGo for it! This is a fun, very juvenile, don't-think-too-much-about-it-or-you'll-find-plotholes dystopian romance. It's been so long since I read it, but I remember liking it. I can't give info on safety, language and sex scenes because I can't remember much :)Give it a chance!
When Aria, a Dweller, is exiled from the safety of her home, she forms an alliance with Perry, an Outsider, to work toward a common goal.I really liked this book.
In the beginning I had a little bit of trouble connecting with the characters and the story, though I think this is largely due to my strong preference for first person point-of-view.
Perry and Aria don't like each other at all in the beginning, and even by the midpoint they're just starting to get on friendly terms.
I'd recommend this book to lovers of dystopian/apocalyptic stories who enjoy romance and adventure with a touch of sci-fi.
The Dwellers live in dome Pods and people go about their daily business wearing a Smarteye—it's a device that allows them into a virtual reality (Realms) where everything is “Better than Real.” There's no fear, no stress, just a psuedo-life of doing whatever your heart desires.
Aria has lived all her life under a dome logged into the Realms.
In an attempt to reach her mother (who she hasn't heard from in days) in another dome, Aria's caught breaking several rules that nearly bring down the whole Pod. As a result she gets banished to the outside world, left to die.
I think it gives a great insight to the main characters Aria and Perry and kept it fresh.
I needed to come across each particular term two to three times before I finally understand what they mean.*Just remembers to check the back of the book for glossary*Owh, none!
Things seemed calm and normal, and suddenly boom!, we got major conflicts and suspense.(view spoiler)[I was like 'Wait, they thrown Aria out in the desert?', 'Wait, the Dwellers took Talon away?, 'Wait, Perry killed those men?' (hide spoiler)]The characters while they are given names, they come and go.
At first I had trouble connecting with the characters and the world, but around the middle I began to be really intrigued!
The world in this trilogy is simply AMAZING, so big and vast and full of surprises!
I think Veronica Rossi did a great job building it!
The whole thing about the Realms, the Aether, the Senses, everything!I also like the romance in this story, Peregrine and Aria are adorable together, and also, I think my favorite character was Roar :).I plan on reading the rest of the trilogy, but first I have to finish my priorities.
6/19/2017: I really forgot just how much I loved this book and now I'm dying to reread the other books In the series. Love love loved Aria and Perry and Roar. Loved the slow burn and the sweet moments. Loved the fighting and creepiness of some of the Outsiders. And loved the ending most of all.
Wow.I just─ I mean, like─ I can't even─Wow.<3
‘Savage’ Perry is on a quest to find someone, and Aria goes along with him to seek out answers and look for her missing mother.I’m going to be perfectly honest: the beginning of UNDER THE NEVER SKY was no picnic.
It was like someone had wiped and cleaned my finger-print ridden classes soon as I figured it all out.I KNEW WHAT WAS GOING ON AND IT WAS EPICThe world Rossi had created for her characters was richly imaginative.
I didn't like Aria at all for the first half of the book, but as soon as she got her shit together, I really started to appreciate her.
(view spoiler)[Not drunk and disorderly, although that’s happened after some books.
I loved the experience of being in the world Veronica Rossi has created in Under the Never Sky. She drops the reader in with little in the way of backstory or explanation, to an extent leaving them to stumble around blind and gradually get a feel for the place.
She’s taken some familiar concepts and put her own unique slant on them, pushing together two very different worlds to create a setting of extremes.
(hide spoiler)]Perry’s story and motivations in particular came across loud and clear, probably why I felt invested in him as a character almost straight away.
The story is told from the point of view of two characters; Aria a Dweller and Peregrine an Outsider.Aria is seventeen years old and lives in one of these pods in a city called Reverie….don’t you just love that as a name for a city???
Events regarding his young nephew Talon cause him to leave his tribe and when he is alone wandering the Outside he meets Aria.So Aria wants to return to her people to find her mother Lumina but needs Perry’s protection and hunting prowess to help her survive the journey.
Sale Alert January Book Deal for $1.99 on AmazonI like it when an author can write from various PoV and I never have to look back at the front of the chapter to remember who is speaking.
But I kept my mind open and let the world form chapter by chapter and then I was hooked.This is one of those few books I really liked both the main charactors.
I think for a lot of people there feelings on the book will rest soley on do they like Perry and Aria.
She is trying to find her place and learn as much as she can along the way.
During the first few chapters of this book, I was tempted to violate my sacred rule in reading books (finishing a book once I started it). The backdrop of the story seems so alien to me and I felt like I will be reading another measly done dystopian trilogy. But wait, after reading the first few chapters. I have proven myself wrong. Under the Never Sky is an original dystopian novel and is a very strong foundation to a trilogy. So, for fans of dystopian series, this series is a must read.
But once I got past the weird names and unfamiliar terminology, it was easy to immerse myself in the story.Under the Never Sky follows a journey-type plotline in a post-apocalyptic setting, and I loved the dual POV between Aria and Perry, which provided an interesting contrasting dynamic.
Plus, I have a particular weakness for enemies-to-lovers from divergent societies, which makes for some amusing banter.PERRY: “How old do you think I am, Dweller?”ARIA: “I’m a little shaky on the fossil record, but I’d say fifty to sixty thousand years.” (lol)The story was linear and not overly complex, and the worldbuilding took a backseat to character development.
