https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/390562.What_the_Buddha_Taught
As strange as it may sound, many of the books I’ve read on Buddhism do not actually pay much attention to Siddhartha- the Gautama Buddha himself.
For the scholar of Buddhism, for he/she who is looking deep into the way of thought, may wish to look elsewhere, as this is a beginner’s manual-easily the best I’ve read to date.
Some book I read earlier even gave me a false impression of Buddhism.
Though, as I’ve said before, I do highly recommend the novel Siddhartha for a good exploration of the introspective drive of the teachings.
Invitation Complications orWho is the Best Spokesperson for a Religion?Who can write about a religion best? An insider or an outsider? Obviously it takes a lifetime’s learning to understand the religion, just to get a ‘feel’ for it. It might even need a lifetime's ‘practice’, and it could very well be that the first innocent impulses can only be absorbed at a very young age — like a language, a religion is also a mode of expression. Then surely the insider is the one best placed to introduce ot
Could it be that the one best placed to understand the house is not so well suited to understand the visitor?So a Christian reader would need a christian author to interpret Buddhism for him?
Who else can understand the reader as well?And in any case, since we are going down this road, who can understand both - the ancient house and the modern visitor?I think the best compromise would be to allow the welcome sermon to be delivered by a scholar outside the tradition, but steeped in it.
I expected this book to answer a couple of questions I had about what happened after death, and if everyone really does have a soul (short answers: rebirth, and no, there's no such thing as a soul).
While it did answer those questions, the book also opened a treasure trove of other questions that I don't even know where to begin seeking answers from.I read this book after my cousin's death.
Maintaining, as I recall, that the oldest Pali texts and the Theravada tradition were, if anything, practical and antimetaphysical--as opposed, say, to later Mahayana tendencies, these books disposed me favorably to Buddhism in its supposedly "original" formulation.
It's much like the assumption that Jesus held to values evocative of one's own highest ideals.
By extension, and knowing that the earliest Pali texts were neither written by the Buddha himself or even during his lifetime, I am now more suspicious of such attractive formulations as that afforded by this author.
This is the only worthwhile book on Buddhism I've come across. Other books I've read wallow in touchy-feely mumbo-jumbo. Rahula is straight forward, treating Buddhism not as witchcraft or God's thoughts, but as the best devised way of proceeding through this veil. He lays Buddhism out clearly & simply, making a sober & cogent argument for what it has to offer.
Tuy nhiên con còn một điểu an ủi nhỏ này : con nghĩ rằng Thế tôn sẽ không nhập Niết bàn mà không để lại những lời di giáo đề cập đến đoàn thể Tăng già”.Khi ấy đức Phật đầy từ bi và nhân ái, đã khoan hòa nói với người thị giả tân tụy thân yêu : “A Nan, đoàn thể Tăng già còn chờ đợi gì nơi Ta nữa ?
I have to say the translation is just perfect, by a Taiwan-based Chinese Buddhist scholar, Mr. Gu Fa-Yan. Today I just finished reading the book in its original English version for the first time.
Maybe, but not now, cuz I have a long bibliography to spend time with.It’s worth to mention that this book “What the Buddha Taught” has helped me so much in understanding Buddhadharma, since Year 2001 when I obtained the Chinese version from a colleague who, a Taiwanese Chinese, is a devoted Theravada Buddhist and believes only Theravada Buddhism is authentic.

I think also that this book could have corrected some confusion and misunderstandings that took a while for me to get through.
Since I often take a scholarly approach to my spirituality, it does hold strong appeal for me personally.The main selling point of this particular book is that Rahula works from the closest to firsthand sources we have in Buddhism.
All that makes this an excellent resource for beginners, those still exploring Buddhism (like me), and also those studying comparative religions looking to learn more than just basics.A lot of the information in this book was not new for me and just helped to reiterate/confirm some gained knowledge.
Our author quotes with approval the following remark of one Buddhist monk (or bhikkhu) to another: "without devotion, faith or belief, without liking or inclination, without hearsay or tradition, without considering apparent reasons, without delight in the speculations of opinions, I know and see that the cessation of becoming is Nirvana." What is required for Buddhistic Enlightenment is the modesty of reason, not the enthusiasm and hubris of speculation, which always brings in its wake the indignation of warring factions.
This book was recommended to me as an ideal book for a newcomer to Buddhism. It definitely lived up to its recommendation and then some. Very clear and concise descriptions from the author, which left me feeling very much comfortable with all of the topics included in the book. Read this book if you wish to understand more clearly the basic concepts, principles and structure of Buddhism.
The first book I've ever read about Buddhism. It feels strange to rate something like this, as I have nothing to compare it to. Still, I found it fascinating, clear and soothing. I am very interested in learning more.
I came across this book by accident, but now believe it to be a classic text as an introduction to Buddhism. It is a short read, but very clear and the concise nature of the read allied to the very clear prose makes it essential.Chapter VIII 'What the Buddha Taught and the World Today' was simply a revelation to me as this was one of the first books I bought after reading Gunaratana's "Eight Mindful Steps to Happiness".Highly recommended.
I've always been curious about Buddhism as a non-violent religion that encourages questioning and does not expect the followers to believe in anything blindly, or really to "believe" in anything that can't be seen.
I am curious to know if modern practice/teachings actually work like this.The main 8 chapters of this book are truly fascinating, and I think many non-religious people and non-believers may find that they already relate to many of the ideas presented by the Buddha.
In fact, Buddha put into more eloquent and tolerant words the issues and questions I already had regarding the blind belief of other religions.
With regards to the clarification of Pali terms such as Nibbana, Anatta and Bhavana, and his discussion of Doctrine, Dr. Rahula's discussion of the teaching is penetrative and insightful.However, with regards to the presentation of the Discipline or Training, such as the Noble Eightfold Path and the cultivation of the mind (bhavana), Dr Rahula sometimes relies overmuch on standard approaches instead of offering up more penetrative ways of understanding.
When I started reading this text, I honestly thought I had the wrong book, not the guide recommended by the local Zen master.
It has the feel of a vague, open apologia for Buddhism, not the hardheaded brass-tacks guide for a believer that I was expecting.
Later into the text, Rahula made a point of addressing this, explaining that those who would apply the kind of rigor that one would expect of, say, Kabbalistic scholarship to Buddhist practice were missing the point, and that the real touchstones of the Buddha's thought really were the simple points.
خمس نجوم و من الكتب الي تگدر تقرا مرة ثانية و ما راح تشعر بالملل.من الكتب الي راح تترك أثر بيك و تضل تسولف بيها و تمدح، كتاب لازم الكل تقرا و تعرف شنو و منو هو بوذا بدل ما تگول "يعبدون ربهم السمين". ملاحظة: اذا قريته و ما حسيت شي تغيّر بطريقة تفكيرك او شلون تشوف الناس و الالم و السعادة و الخ، انت تعاني من مشكلة و لازم تتعالج.
"the absolute truth is that there is nothing absolute in the world, that everything is relative, conditioned and impermanent."
Easily the best introductory text for Buddhism. This should be everyone's starting place...
Nice introduction to Buddhism. A little dense but okay.
The man who gathers only the flowers (of sense pleasures), whose mind is entangled, death carries him away as a great flood a sleeping village. Libro serio, hermoso y brutal. Justo es leer sobre una visión de mundo que prende fuego los delirios narcisistas y dualistas de buena parte de 'Occidente'.
This book made clear to me how challenging it's going to be to get a true picture of the Buddha and Buddhism because I'll be reading everything in translation.
Still, I want to know more about what the Buddha himself said so I think I'll turn to the wonderful Thich Nhat Hanh and put his The Heart of the Buddha's Teaching on my to-read list.
And to my friends who may be wondering, no, I'm not a convert (and I doubt I ever will be)--but I do find the Buddha's teachings to be both beautiful and full of common sense.
For a long time whenever people ask me for something to read about basic Buddhist ideas, this has been the book I've recommended.
It's not the most up-to-date scholarship and Rahula is a bit of a "Protestant Buddhist" (i.e., a movement in the 19-20th centuries to represent Buddhism as more secular, downplaying its religious aspects).
The one drawback is that Rahula spends less time than I would like on Buddhist philosophers' arguments in favor of these views, although when it comes to describing the views themselves he is unsurpassed.
Without any meditation experience, I think this book might be a bit too difficult to grasp; having taken a Vipassana course, I still found the concepts difficult to grasp but greatly appreciated the author's explanations.
My main objection to this book is that the author sometimes editorializes and strays from a pure explanation of what the Buddha taught.
For example, my trust was eroded by the author's statement "That is why there is not a single example of persecution or the shedding of a drop of blood in converting people to Buddhism." This is simply incorrect.
At other times, it sounds like the author is singing the praises of Buddhism instead of letting it speak for itself.
This book, in my opinion, shows Buddhism at its most basic, before it acquired all the baggage of different cultures. It represents one school of thought; there are obviously many others. But if you want to know the essentials of Buddhism, this is a great place to start.
Clear, concise and easy to read. Would recommend to anyone willing to get to know what Buddhism is.
I would even say that I'm opposed to the teachings of Buddhism.
I think this book still deserves a good rating.
Speaking of self, that's a rather confusing subject as the soul does not exist in a Buddhist worldview either.One detriment is that since readibg more material, I have found that this focused primarily on secular Buddhism, which is a confusing fact to find out after reading this.
It would have been good to be made aware of the other schools of Buddhism.
I read it on a kindle via PDF however, so the formatting was poor.
Not the author or book itself.
Great into to core Buddhist teachings I wanted a book that provided an overview of core Buddhist teachings that had not been Westernized. I think this book scratched that itch. If you want depth, then you may not be fully satisfied by the book but it does whet the appetite for further teaching.
This book is a little dated (originally published in 1959) and suffers somewhat from Buddhist Boosterism and Westernization but I found the four chapters devoted to the four noble truths very good. Everything starts with those four concepts. And probably ends.
It's been awhile since I've read about Buddhism and this was a nice, short, unchallenging but detailed read about the more important tenants of Buddhism.
But note that the author paints a purely positive view of Buddhism and does not discuss some of the negatives (treatment and view of women) at all.
Things I didn't like:The author is obviously a practitioner and a Buddhist monk, so he paints a rosy picture of Buddha and his teachings.
He ONLY focused on the positive and never mentions anything as negative or regretful...such as the crap treatment in Buddhism of female monks.
