https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/386162.The_Hitchhiker_s_Guide_to_the_Galaxy
It turns out it takes little more than a moment's questioning to burst our preconceptions at the seams, yet rarely does this stop us from treating the most ludicrous things as if they were perfectly reasonable.It is no surprise that famed atheist Richard Dawkins found a friend and ally in Adams.
By showing a universe that makes no sense and having his characters constantly question it, Adams is subtly hinting that this is the natural human state, and the fact that we laugh and sympathize shows that it must be true.It's all a joke, it's all ridiculous.
Another classic. If you don't like this series, you probably put your babel fish in the wrong hole. You are the reason that human beings are only the third most intelligent species on earth behind mice and dolphins. So long, and thanks for all the fish!
I, for example, quite literally worship the words Adams puts on the page, and have read the Hitchhiker's Trilogy so many times that I have large tracts of it memorized.
Whatever.The first three books in the Hitchhiker's Trilogy--The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, The Restaurant at the End of the Universe, and Life, the Universe and Everything--are inspired lunacy.
Despite this, the Hitchhiker's Trilogy remains as the single most entertaining and enjoyable series of books I've ever read--a position they've occupied for some fifteen years.
What does Kim Jong-Il, a thong-wearing mechanic and this missing link furry fellow have to do with The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy? ...you owe it to yourself and your family to find out. With the plethora of wonderful reviews already written for this book by my fellow GRs, I decided instead to provide some helpful, practical advice on why reading this book might benefit my fellow goodreaders. Therefore, as both life management tool and a safety warning, I have compiled my: Top 5 Reasons Why
… ‘You know,’ said Arthur, ‘it's at times like this, when I'm trapped in a Vogon airlock with a man from Betelgeuse, and about to die of asphyxiation in deep space that I really wish I'd listened to what my mother told me when I was young.’		‘Why, what did she tell you?’		‘I don't know, I didn't listen.’… Now it is such a bizarrely improbable coincidence that anything so mindboggingly useful could have evolved purely by chance that some thinkers have chosen to see it as the final and clinching proof of the non-existence of God. The argument goes something like this: `I refuse to prove that I exist,' says God, ‘for proof denies faith, and without faith I am nothing.’ ‘But,’ says Man, ‘The Babel fish is a dead giveaway, isn't it?
well maybe it's also you.Unfortunately this book wasn't for me.
Some of the humor I liked but it was too absurd for me and it was too slow to really start.I wish I had liked it as much as everyone else but it definitely didn't make it to my "favorite books of all time" list!UPDATE: I finally figured out what was my issue with this book.
There's a French movie called "Rrrrrrr" (similar humour to Monty Pyton) and I've had way more fun using the jokes out of context with friends than I did actually watching the movie.
the jokes are funny afterwards.
This summarizes exactly how I feel about this book!
However, that being said, Adams' has some of the best quotes EVER (not all of these are from this exact book):"In the beginning the Universe was created.
This has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move." "For instance, on the planet Earth, man had always assumed that he was more intelligent than dolphins because he had achieved so much—the wheel, New York, wars and so on—whilst all the dolphins had ever done was muck about in the water having a good time.
I wasn't surprised since some months ago, I read Shada by Gareth Roberts but based on the Doctor Who's unaired script written by Douglas Adams where you find another priceless example of a computer with a personality that only Adams is able to develop.
I understand that this the first book in a trilogy of five books (yes, you read correctly, it wasn't a mistake) so the adventures and mysteries will continue in the second book The Restaurant at the End of the Universe.
What can I say? I wish I had been in the movie, although it was bad and I guess I should be happy about NOT being in it.
I hated this book. It was required in one of my English Lit. classes in college. The time spent reading this book is time that I will never get back. I think this book may have shortened my life; it was such a waste of time.
“You know," said Arthur, "it's at times like this, when I'm trapped in a Vogon airlock with a man from Betelgeuse, and about to die of asphyxiation in deep space that I really wish I'd listened to what my mother told me when I was young.""Why, what did she tell you?""I don't know, I didn't listen.”   Did this make you laugh already? Fine, because the rest of Douglas Adams' famous novel includes many more of those humorous elements.I have a very difficult personal history with Sci-Fi novels; so
“You know," said Arthur, "it's at times like this, when I'm trapped in a Vogon airlock with a man from Betelgeuse, and about to die of asphyxiation in deep space that I really wish I'd listened to what my mother told me when I was young.""Why, what did she tell you?""I don't know, I didn't listen.” 
Where?" cried Arthur, twisting round."No, I was only fooling," said Ford, "we are going to die after all.”
But those are all questions everyone has already asked themselves, and Adams isn't afraid to tackle them in a way that the reader can't help but laugh about it.
وگون‌ها که یکی از نژادهای کهکشان هستند، سیاره ی زمین را برای احداث یک بزرگراه بین کهکشانی نابود می‌کنند.
کره ی زمین نابود می‌شود، اما فورد و آرتور دنت (دوست فورد) چند ثانیه پیش از نابودی زمین، به کمک دستگاهی که فورد به همراه دارد، خود را به سفینه ی وگون‌ها منتقل کرده، و از آن پس با «اتواستاپ» زدن، سفر خود را در کهکشان‌ها ادامه می‌دهند.
او سال‌ها پیش از نابودیِ زمین، برای تحقیقات میدانی به زمین سفر کرده بود.
رمان، ماجراهای سفرهای این دو دوست، و نقشِ آرتور را برای دریافتن معنی زندگی در بافتی جذاب و با زبانی روان به تصویر می‌کشد.
A disclaimer: I don't have no sense of humor!!!The book is so well-known that I would not bother with the plot description; I will just shamelessly copy/paste the blurb.
Seconds before the Earth is demolished to make way for a galactic freeway, Arthur Dent is plucked off the planet by his friend Ford Prefect, a researcher for the revised edition of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy who, for the last fifteen years, has been posing as an out-of-work actor.
I understand that the book is silly and humorous, so I do not ask for any character development, or anything resembling a plot, or any deep philosophy about reason or mind.
but unfortunately, I wasn't as fond of the humor as most people are.This was a book club selection from about 6 or 7 years ago.
Several had already read it but wanted to again.I'm generally a fan of crazy humor.
I'm pretty sure there are a few movie or cartoon adaptions of it.And I honestly would recommend that everyone read it -- even non SF fans.
My first reactions were "Oh that's not possible..." But then I realized I wasn't reading a typical novel, so I suspended the lil' bit o' grouch in me...
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Before I actually read it, lots of my friends recommended it and the cool, edgy people all loved it (basically, the hipsters of the 90s!
😉)When I finally read it, it seemed a bit dry to me.
Perhaps that was the famous dry British humor?
I started to think that perhaps the TV show and the text adventure streamlined the humor and made it more accessible to me.I do think that a lot of people will like this one and sing its praises - and you don't even need to be cool and edgy!
His friend drops by, Mr.Ford Prefect and finds Arthur lying in the mud in front of the bulldozers, and asks him what's new ?
After a few drinks, which relaxes Arthur, Ford tell's his friend he's an alien from a another planet, in the vicinity of the great star Betelgeuse, just 600 light-years away.
Dent always thought Prefect was an eccentric man , but this being England, perfectly permissible, goes on to explain, he's a researcher for something called, "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy".
Ford Prefect often has a rakish tone, his reading of Arthur Dent is note-perfect clueless, and Zaphod Beeblebrox has a deliciously smarmy confidence.
His reading of the Vogon gibberish as the Babel fish was inserted and translated it into English had me laughing.No, my biggest problem is that I think sometimes Fry got a little too involved in the story, and his character voices bled together.
There was a distracting formatting issue where the pause between chapters must have been edited out between the end of the previous chapter, Fry reading the chapter heading (ex.
But I'm definitely enthusiastic about moving on to The Restaurant at the End of the Universe if Fry is reading.
I've finally read and enjoyed one of the most influential books of the sci-fi genre.
I finally have faith in that genre, and an even stronger desire to read more important Sci-Fi novels.I don't see the need to make a short summary of the novel.
This book I can consider amazing, but too short.Aside from the humor, I enjoyed the wittiness of the novel and the author himself.
Funnier that they considered Earth as a funny name in the beginning.All the ideologies Adams incorporated here are interesting to me.
I can't wait to read the other books in the series.4.5/5 stars.
Douglas Adams' The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy is an entertaining romp through the galaxy.
Of course, Vonnegut and Adams are very different writers.
Still, the influence of Vonnegut is evident in Adams' seminal novel of nerd culture.
The absurdity of the human condition explored in Sirens (something which Vonnegut refuses to take seriously but can't treat as a punchline either) gets a funny and entertaining twist in Adams' work.
While I view Sirens as a better novel, it took Adams to turn that absurdity into such an entertaining adventure.
They stumbled out of the Heart of Gold and looked around them.
It was very quiet among the tall buildings.
The ground was covered with brightly-colored objects that, from a distance, looked a little like paperback novels.
Trillian picked one up."It's a paperback novel!" she said, surprised.
"Long Hard Ride, by Lorelei James." She flipped through it.
"Hm, who'd have thought that the late inhabitants of Frogstar Z would have been into women's erotica?"She picked up some more.
A Little Harmless Pleasure, by Melissa Schroeder.
They're all women's erotica!The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
I had this on tape, the BBC version, and would listen to this in my car or on my walkman repeatedly.If you've ever wondered where those references to the number 42 come from, what it would be like to have two heads or what about the answer to life, the universe and everything - look no further.
Actually, I'm gonna head off right now to get the audiobook and pick up a ringtone & notification sound from that.
Yay!edit: back from picking up the BBC audiobook.
I read this book because it is my boyfriends' favorite series. I struggled with it so much. I already struggle with fantasy, and this book didn't explain what is happening thoroughly and develop the characters enough right away in the beginning. So like I said I really struggled. However, I watched the movie and according to my boyfriend there was a lot in the movie that wasn't in the book, so I guess that didn't help.
I read this book about 51,017 times when I was in seventh grade. I wore my copy out. That was a time in my life when I very much would have preferred to belong to some alien species, trapped here through no fault of my own. Also: "The ships hung in the air in much the same way that bricks don't." How can you improve on writing like that? Q: What's so bad about being drunk?A: Just ask a glass of water. ahhh, good times.
“I don’t want to die now!” he yelled. “I’ve still got a headache! I don’t want to go to heaven with a headache, I’d be all cross and wouldn’t enjoy it!  I found my love for Sci-Fi comedy when I read The Martian. And this was a good addition to my read shelf in that accord. I loved the moments I spent with this book. Unlike The Martian, this book would also work well for non-Sci-Fi readers. Because there is soo much humour you can't repress your laugh and enjoy this book.  OVERVIEWEarth is sche
I don’t want to go to heaven with a headache, I’d be all cross and wouldn’t enjoy it!
I found my love for Sci-Fi comedy when I read The Martian.
And this was a good addition to my read shelf in that accord.
Ford hitches the lift on Vogons' Spaceship.
I also liked Zaphod.(view spoiler)[=> Hyper-intelligent race, mice, build a supercomputer, Deep Thought, on Magrathea.
So Deep Thought build another supercomputer to calculate the question to this answer.
This supercomputer was Earth which would calculate the question in ten million years.
Fortunately for Arthur Dent, his friend Ford Prefect turns out to be an alien and manages to escape, with Arthur.The plot is not bad, but it's the writing that is fantastic:Vogon ships "hung in the sky in exactly the way bricks don't".
"Bits of it were dullish grey.
Bits of it were dullish brown.
What's so bad about being drunk?
Try asking a glass of water." God refuses to prove he exists because proof denies faith and without faith he is nothing.
But the Babel fish is a dead giveaway - so God disappeared in a puff of logic.
Arthur, reflecting on the loss of Trafalgar Square and McDonalds as the planet is destroyed, has a moment of hardship accepting that all that is left of his previous home now is a redundant note on it being “mostly harmless”.Thus thrown on an odyssey in space, the pair makes acquaintances of diverse kinds, always learning something new about how not to take life too seriously, while still trying to understand it.
Or maybe the kind of horrible Vogonian poetry that ex-Academies would award?While our characters are off to have lunch at the end of the universe, Deep Thought is preparing for the arrival of his son, the new supercomputer.
This book was more Sylvie and Bruno and less Alice in Wonderland.
I didn't know what to make of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy.
I didn't know when to laugh and what was serious.The treatment given to this story is phantasmagorical.
The gags and mini episodic adventures are absurd, pertinently so.
The fate of the planet Magrathea is a dream for communists.I tried to get it, you know.
But I don't get most of British humour.
I don't get most of Monty Python's Flying Circus, and I don't get Wodehouse and Evelyn Waugh.
It is just my kind of humor, epic, ridiculous space adventure. It is one of the most quotable books I ever read. It is quotable like Step Brothers. This book is the "fucking Catalina wine mixer" of books. You guys should of heard me chuckle while walking down the street with Jacqueline in her stroller. I probably looked like a crazy lady giggling to myself. Definitely a re-read for me, and I will jump into his next novel tomorrow.
So listen to the words of wisdom printed on the good book, and get ready for the adventure of a lifetime: ...
The first book in the series ends on a cliffhanger, so I guess I have to hold on to the "a nicely chilled Pan Galactic Gargle Blaster in my hand." and hitchhike in the Heart of Gold to the next destination for Arthur Dent and his friends.
I was quite afraid I wouldn't take to the book considering how many people close to me -- as well as at parties -- would rage, rage, RAGE at my never having read Hitchhiker's Guide.
Would I be shanked at the next party I went to if, when asked about my liking of the book, I were to shrug?
You know the kind, that ragged, empty, cold, fraught, and menacing absurdity that lives in the Batman's Joker and performance art projects by people with bold, asymmetrical hair cuts.
I'll now take joy in reading Chris's hefty and timeworn Ultimate Hitchhiker's Guide, rather than approach it with the dread of potentially being shanked.
"The history of every major Galactic Civilisation tends to pass through three distinct and recognisable phases, those of Survival, Inquiry and Sophistication, otherwise known as the How, Why and Where phases. For instance, the first phase is characterised by the question 'how can we eat?' The second by the question 'why do we eat?' And the third by the question 'where shall we have lunch?'" When you love a book as much as I love this one the only way to write a review to convince others who hav
When you love a book as much as I love this one the only way to write a review to convince others who have not yet experienced the joy of Arthur and co.
This is the funniest book EVER!Simple as!five starsDouglas Adams, you were a genius and this fan still mourns your loss.
"You know," said Arthur, "it's at times like this, when I'm trapped in a Vogon airlock with a man from Betelgeuse, and about to die of asphyxiation in deep space that I really wish I'd listened to what my mother told me when I was young.""Why, what did she tell you?""I don't know, I didn't listen."
"Space is big.
Simple as!five starsDouglas Adams, you were a genius and this reader still feels your loss.
