https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129798.The_King_in_Yellow_and_Other_Horror_Stories
3.5 StarsBack in 2014 when I was still in college, My friends and I sat down and decided to watch a brand new detective TV show airing on HBO. There were two detectives and ritual murders, two timelines and unknown mysteries. By the time I finished watching a few episodes, I knew I was witnessing one of the best damn TV show ever produced.True detective Season 1. One thing I did not understand while watching the show was the constant reference to the  Yellow King  and the mysterious lands of Car
Chambers also used the mysterious Carcosa, an other-worldly city created by author Ambrose Bierce in his short story An Inhabitant of Carcosa (1886), to deepen the daunting quality of the Yellow King mythology.While the Yellow King mythology itself is truly iconic horror invention which fueled even Lovecraft's imagination, the stories that use this mythology in this collection are not too iconic.
Stories like The Mask, the yellow sign, and The Demoiselle d'Ys try to combine romance and horror, with only The Mask succeeding for me.
Even though Chambers tricked me into reading romance, the collection of stories are good, just not iconic.
Some blurbs mention the stores have common theme of fictional book The King in Yellow present in them (think about it as a small and much less harmful version of Lovecraft's Necronomicon); this is misleading as well: that book makes its appearance only in the first four stories.
I mentioned the influence on horror genre; the one of the fourth story in particular can be seen in later works by other writers.
The best horror story I mentioned - The Yellow Sign - deserves 4.5 stars for its lasting influence if nothing else.
4 horror, 1 ghost, 1 war and two romance-y type tales.
I enjoyed the ambiguous nature of these tales and my rating of this book is almost entirely based on these 4 stories.I did love the the ghost story, but I won't mention the title of that tale, so as not to ruin it for future readers.
To be honest, I did not love the war short but it was okay, and I didn't care for the romance tales at all.
I won't hide the fact that I was a little disappointed in the last few stories, but that's okay, not every collection is perfect and this is no exception.
Then, the story really starts...Our narrator lets us know that after a fall from a horse, he was unjustly confined to a mental institution for some time, until his doctor realized that it was all a mistake, and released him.
(He has been reading 'The King in Yellow'...) This story works well as part of 'The King in Yellow' collection, but as a stand-alone, I felt like it would leave the reader wanting a bit more development of the ideas...-The Yellow SignVery similar in theme to 'In the Court of the Dragon.' Here, a bohemian artist senses malevolence from the figure of the night watchman of the churchyard outside his window.
ƸӁƷ5 Stars for the wonderful opening story "The Repairer of Reputations". although i wonder if 'wonderful' is the correct word. after all, this is a story that opens with a bizarre, sometimes dire alterna-history leading up to a 1920s America where on-lookers gather to contemplate terminally dispirited disportment within suicide-abetting "Lethal Chambers." and after this bit of surprising strangeness, the reader is plunged right into the mind of a classic Unreliable Narrator (the poor lad struck
after all, this is a story that opens with a bizarre, sometimes dire alterna-history leading up to a 1920s America where on-lookers gather to contemplate terminally dispirited disportment within suicide-abetting "Lethal Chambers." and after this bit of surprising strangeness, the reader is plunged right into the mind of a classic Unreliable Narrator (the poor lad struck his head after a fall from a horse and was never quite the same again), complete with insanely grandiose ambitions and malicious thoughts of revenge and devious yet doltish plans for his enemies - who are everywhere, simply everywhere!
it is hard to believe that this story was written over a 100 years ago.i also enjoyed the three tales of weird horror that followed, chock-full of dread and formless despair.
Camilla: (Terrified, aside to Cassilda.) No mask?
Chambers' stories also share slight interconnections beyond the concepts of Carcosa, Hali, and the King in Yellow.
(view spoiler)[For example, the sculpture above the Lethal Chamber in "The Repairer of Reputations" is sculpted by Boris in "The Mask." (hide spoiler)] The structure of four of the stories is exactly the same.
Beiler summarizes Chambers' novels and stories, and on the balance finds very little worth reading besides The King in Yellow.
I am inclined to disagree, and find that even The King in Yellow could be skipped in favour of Bierce's An Inhabitant of Carcosa.
The stories in THE KING IN YELLOW are beautiful and wicked, and are required reading for true horror enthusiasts.
THE KING IN YELLOW is also the title of a book within this book: in these stories, anyone who reads the fictional book of the same name goes mad.
The stories are in this collection are told in a somewhat leisurely fashion, but stick with them.
They're truly marvelous, and you'll find yourself thinking about them long after you've finished the book.(Personal footnote: I love this book so much, I once wrote a story for an anthology based on THE KING IN YELLOW.
That story, "Glove," is reprinted in my collection, BEACH BLANKET ZOMBIE.)
The linking thread between the first few stories is "The King in Yellow", a fictional verse play, the mere reading of which can drive one mad.
(Fans of H.P. Lovecraft or of True Detective will recognize the play; or at least some of the names and imagery.)The second half is a series of tenuously-linked stories set in Paris, mostly about young Americans who've come there to paint nekkid ladies and who find themselves falling in love, to better or worse effect.
Outside of Poe and Lovecraft, "The Yellow Sign" may be the most influential horror story ever written.
It is the bridge between Gothic, Decadent, and Modern in horror.
Unfortunately Chambers killed a lot of other trees.
One of the most popular authors of his time, he is almost forgotten except for the slim little volume known as "The King In Yellow." He wrote mainly unreadable sappy romances and unadventurous adventures.
Lovecraft agonized over Chamber's wastage of his talent.The Yellow Sign is probably THE one story I never get tired of re-reading.
The rest of the stories in this book are good but not masterpieces.
From the Introduction (which I would recommend reading afterwards, as the stuffy though astute editor might turn you off from the ensuing book) I gleam that Chambers was one of a million forgettable, forgotten writers of copious crap in an olden age nobody really knows or cares anything about anymore.
It contains all sorts of neat stuff: a crazy jerk of a narrator, a strange deformed man with an angry cat, secret societies, and it all takes place randomly in a future 1920s where people go to suicide machines.
The suicide machines really add nothing to the plot, nor does the story gain anything by taking place in the future: and yet, somehow all these random pieces, like the best Philip Dick story, work together.
(I'm guessing this is the same collection I've read)The Restorer of Reputations (or whatever) is a great and fascinating horror story with a nice twist and a good amount of atmosphere to it, but the rest of it is far from horror. That said it's all fairly amazing, except for a severe lack of good and snappy endings, but it doesn't reach the levels of other masters of the genre (HP above all of course). The best stories are actually the love ones, with the very last one being particuarly touching.
He seems to do this most for the five stories that were part of the original “The King in Yellow”.As the Editor writes in his Introduction, Chambers borrowed liberally from the work of Ambrose Bierce using the short story “An Inhabitant of Carcosa” as a backdrop for many of these stories.
Chambers applies irony and sarcasm in several of the later stories to discomfort the protagonist.The final three tales were all originally chapters with the one book.
From this point, the story moves from happiness to despair to grief, indeed.(Both of these stories are from the collection, “The Mystery of Choice”.)The Harbor-MasterThis time the young assistant is sent to investigate (and purchase if real) two living examples of the great auk.
I have to admit that the horror stories were my absolute favorites--to the extant that even though I didn't care at all for some of the later ones, I'm still giving this collection a solid four stars based on the strength of the tales I DID like.The "horror" tales are are loosely woven around the idea that anyone reading the book, "The King in Yellow", is led to madness or some horrific event.
This just added to the mystery and atmosphere of psychological horror, leaving you to ponder what exactly these people are reading.......As I stated earlier, there were some stories in here that I really didn't like much at all, but this collection was worthwhile solely for the ones focusing on the King.
The King in Yellow is a medieval play infamous for inducing madness and despair among its readers, a
I never realized until recently that Lovecraft admired and tried to emulate a few of this author's horror feel, that his stories are the godfather of the Cthulhu mythos. Strangely enough, the prose is fluid and compelling in a way that Lovecraft couldn't match. Of course, it isn't Lovecraftian prose, but the weight of the mythos that draws so many fans, but it was a pure delight to see spark that lit the fire for generations of horror fans around the world.
I also referred back to the intro when reading some of the later stories for reasons I will mention again below.One of the expectations I had when starting this book was that I would find stories similar to H.P. Lovecraft's; Chambers is cited as an influence on Lovecraft, and they'd become linked in my mind because of the similar notions of hapless humans living in a world ruled by horrible great powers.
His narrator in these stories is a very strong character and when I stopped expecting horror from his stories, I enjoyed them quite a bit.There's a lot to like here, and I think the key to appreciating it is to let go of any expectations you have upon picking up the book.
I might come back and re-score it a 3 or even a 4 when I don't feel as deceived.The first four stories are horror stories concerning a book called "The King in Yellow," a play which has an effect on its readers, causing strange visions and erratic behavior.
The fifth story completely avoids the King In Yellow story but is a fairly interesting romance story with its own spooky flavor.After this point, the other stories are neither about "The King in Yellow," nor horror stories.
I would, personally, have gone with "The King in Yellow, Another Horror Story, And Unrelated Garbage".The spooky bits were pretty neat though.
A classic of weird horror, The King in Yellow is a collection of short stories.
Well, the first four stories are weird horror classics.
Related only by the existence and influence of the play The King in Yellow, the second act of which will inevitably drive mad any who read it, they're a set of nicely atmospheric set.
Instead of horror, they're a fairly realistic look at the lives of American art students in late 19th century Paris's Latin Quarter.
If I had known these stories were in here, I would have been even more eager to read the book as a whole.
The first four short stories?
The third one of four - 'In the Court of the Dragon' - was probably my favorite piece of late-19th century horror fiction, well served and set up by the two stories that came before.
After the four short stories came some very quick ...
Ultra-short stories?
It came from Project Gutenberg, it's free, and it has some amazing stuff at the beginning, so I can't fault it.
(Read via Project Gutenberg, not this edition.)Chambers, along with Lovecraft, is one of the grandpappies of the contemporary horror genre, and these are his masterwork: a series of connected short stories and novellas about a mysterious play (also called The King In Yellow) that drives a reader mad.
Though the language takes a bit of time to truly immerse oneself into, it's still fabulous, both on the readerly level and on the meta-level of observing and analyzing just how Chambers managed to pull it off.
The first four or five stories in the book are very effective horror stories that sort or revolve around a play called "The King in Yellow." To read this, in several of the stories, drives the reader mad.
But the stories that comprise the second half of the book don't relate to or mention the King in Yellow or the yellow sign, and are instead kind of late Victorian romance about Bohemians in Paris..
The stories don't go anywhere and don't have any effect on you except in contrast to the great stories that begin the book.So I highly recommend the first four or five stories; I really enjoyed them.
I liked the stories, connected with the Yellow King very much, as well as those with mystical feel, but the last three were kind of boring to me, so between four stars in the first half of the book and two in the second one my average and final rating is three stars.
Втората половина на сборника хич не ми хареса -разказите за лИбовните трепети на некви Хамериканскихудожници в Париж ... едва ли ще са вдъхновили чичА ви Лъвкрафт ...
_The King in Yellow_ was one of them.This is a curious collection of stories.
In the universe of these stories, there is a two act play, titled _The King in Yellow_ which has been denounced and even banned for its deleterious effect on those who read it.
So in one story, one character, after reading the play, embarks on an insane, criminal plot.
In another story, a female character, after reading the play, accidentally falls into a fluid which turns things into marble.
The frustrating thing is that these stories could have been upped a level.
The plot mechanics and prose could be improved.
A short take:I read this nearly a year ago, and yet, flipping through it now and perusing the odd paragraph, many of these stories, along with their eerie plots and weird doings, come back to me and remind me of the great satisfaction I experienced in these pages.
Whatever compelled him to pen these stories, I am so glad that we can enjoy them, today.Some favorites: "Repairer of Reputations"--perhaps the 'must-read' of this anthology--; "The Messenger", deliciously pulpy; and "Is the Ux Extinct", which is silly and a lot of fun, especially given how dismal and serious weird fiction can be.
Inspired by the HBO series True Detective I broke down & read this in the last half of October 2014.It was almost Halloween and I always read H.
P. Lovecraft & his spawn when the leaves on the trees start changing colors.
Lovecraft was allegedly a Chambers devotee, so ...I felt it incumbent upon me to give it a try.Made it through "King..." and a couple of others but finally gave it all up.Also read a few tales by Ambrose Bierce before going back to Lovecraft to wrap up the scary season.To sum it up:I did not have a good time.The band sucked.The booze was doctored.
در این گشت و گذارها به کتاب پادشاه زردپوش برخوردم و متاسفانه متوجه شدم ترجمه ای از اون هنوز در بازار موجود نیست.
به دلیل ضیق وقت و کمی تنبلی و البته تا حدی دشوار بودن زبان کتاب، از خوندنش به زبان اصلی طفره رفتم اما عطش خوندن داستان های این کتاب هم چنان در من شعله می کشه.
کتاب به تازگی توسط بردیا بهنیافر ترجمه شده و از سوی انتشارات نگاه به چاپ رسیده.
حتما به زودی کتاب رو خواهم خوند و اگر بتونم ریویویی هم براش خواهم نوشت.
Цікава збірка оповідань від малознаного автора, однак який є одним із перших, хто писав готичні твори. У значній мірі він вплинув на творчість Говарда Ловкрафта, який запозичив ряд речей із Короля у Жовтому. У певній мірі здалося, що навіть король жахів Стівен Кінг, міг бути під впливо цього твору, оскільки сутність Короля у жовтому дещо нагадує Рендалла Флеґґа чи Багряного короля. Раджу цю збірку оповідань шанувальникам Е. По, Г. Лавкрафта, А. Бірса та С. Кінга.
http://knigozavar.com/kralyat-v-jalto/„Кралят в жълто“ е от книгите, които те психират с това, което не може да бъде видяно в тях. С онова, което преднамерено е оставено от автора в сенките, за да бъде извлачено оттам от съзнанието на читателя и само да се засели в тъмните и особено податливи на влияния кътчета, осеяни с мини от изначална праисторическа уплаха.http://knigozavar.com/kralyat-v-jalto/
The first few stories of the collection are riveting and eerie; I thoroughly enjoyed the madness, picking this up after hearing about the literary references in True Detective. The fun tapers off and becomes kind of tedious by the end of the book. There were some good surprises and fun, scary narrative. Enjoyed those parts.I'd give the first half of the book five stars and the second half two. So, three and a half stars total.
