https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/231804.The_Outsiders
Stay gold, Ponyboy...Stay gold... *cries in Spanish*
He’s just got more worries than somebody his age ought to.”I swear the moment I read about the interactions and relationships between those boys I was already hooked!
It felt like reading “The Raven Boys” all over again; just a couple of years earlier, with other troubles and with a smaller book size.
“The interesting thing about this book is that it acknowledges the fact that the “Socs” fight the “Greasers” because they think they are lowlives, but that none of those two parties actually wants to do anything against it.
i had seen the movie before, so i knew it was about pretty boys fighting, but there is a lot more at work here, subtextually.
musical, but is an excuse to look at this:and how is tom waits in both movies?but all of that is just me giggling.what is more interesting, from a serious literary perspective is just an observation from reading this, the pigman, and revisiting the chocolate war and catcher in the rye for this portion of my young adult readers' advisory class which will meet this tuesday where we will discuss the "classics" of teen fiction.
I just love that I can read a book and watch a movie and there not be that many things different.
Dallas tells Ponyboy and Johnny to hop on this train and go to a town and stay in an abandoned church until things die down and he would come up there.
When the boys get there they find out some of the kids are inside and Ponyboy and Johnny (being the good guys that they are) go in after them.
Like I said before I have watched the movie a million times but as an adult, reading the book put more things into perspective.
But maybe that just has to do with the time period and the fact that they both say stuff like "I was just about bawling my eyes out, to tell you the truth" every few pages, except Ponyboy is doing it because his best friend knifed someone and then died of a broken back and being on fire, and Holden is just sad because his roommate smells bad (oh and I guess his brother got cancer and died pffffft).
That way you could tell the other guy was human too." Chapter 8: "'Thanks, Ponyboy.' She smiled through her tears.
Finally read this classic.
Glad to be in the know!I can see why this has stood the test of time.
The story is easy to get into and keeps your attention throughout.
It seems like any person, young or old, rich or poor, popular or outcast could empathize or sympathize the themes.
Finally, the key climax points are done very well and hit you right in the feels!Another thought I had while reading is this is another one of the young adult fore fathers.
Reading this should be a right of passage for YA fans everywhere.
When I think of it objectively, it's almost as bad as that awful, awful introductory second chapter of the Babysitters Club books that repeats in every installment.
Maybe because I first read it when I was eleven and that sort of writing just seemed clear and to-the-point.
I think that Hinton's allowing her main character to be a real person, who is more often than not unsure of everything he does, gives the book its credibility with teenagers.
Fantastic, must-read, childhood-defining book.
Reading Hinton's "That Was Then, This is Now" is worth it just for the few brief cameos a slightly older Ponyboy makes throughout the story.
I loved The Outsiders when I read it as a teen and again when I read it just a few months ago. S. E. Hinton created a believable and engaging cast of characters who struggle with conflict in and out of their gang and learn the meaning of friendship and family. A very moving and enjoyable story!
I'm just feeling a lot of emotions right now don't toUCH ME.I barely remembered anything about this book from reading it in high school but oh man it was definitely better than I remember. Even though I've never been in any of the situations referenced in the outsiders, the overall themes are meaningful and easy to grasp. REAL GOOD REAL GOOD.
This was a great book but I was incredibly disappointed after I found out it wasn't about aliens.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/   “Nature’s first green is gold, Her hardest hue to hold. Her early leaf’s a flower; But only so an hour. Then leaf subsides to leaf. So Eden sank to grief, So dawn goes down to day.Nothing gold can stay.”  Last week my son came home from school and informed me he had a homework assignment about the book his class is reading as a group. Said child was forlorn that he would be unable to complete the assignment as the editions of the bo
I asked the small boy (with much trepidation) “what book do you need?” and he answered “The Outsiders.” I was filled with glee and assured my son I could easily help him with any questions about that book as I read it a bunch of times myself 800 years ago when I was a young girl.
Whilst waiting for the book to load on to the Kindle, I turned to my son and said the following words:
3.5 stars rounded. This book seemed too nihilistic for my taste. A lot of events occur. A group of youths called the Greasers oppose the Socs, a suburban group, rival to the Greasers.I didn't cherish this book in places. It's lugubrious at times. What is the motivation for whom is a forgotten question by the time the plot unravels.Despite its nihilistic clothing, there is some heart to the novel. Only one needs to have limited experience with novels to find this one fresh.
Expectations scare me.
I had heard so many wonderful things about this book.
And it’s never a good idea to expect too much, because that’s such a big opportunity for disappointment.
So I always prefer to know the least amount possible about any book I’m interested in.
It’s everywhere.I found that the quality of this book was perfectly evidenced by the fact that the immense expectation and build-up accumulated throughout the years were so well met by the actual classic worthiness of the story and the way it was told.Loved the simple, original narrative.
It was quite enjoyable, but I truly do not believe teenage boys in 1960s Oklahoma thought about each other's pretty hair.
'Stay gold, Ponyboy. Stay gold...'
Read for Popsugar's 2018 Reading Challenge #11: A book with a female author who uses a male pseudonymIt's been ten years since I read this book, and I'm happy to see it definitely holds up to my high expectations, since I loved it dearly in the eighth grade. It's one of those books that makes me want to immediately read it all over again, and that's pretty rare for me. Fantastic!
Sometimes there are peculiar stories, stories which will not leave you for a long time and which are going to accompany you long after having turned the last page.Sometimes there are touching stories, stories which feel so realistic that you believe every word the author puts into the novel.Sometimes a book simply doesn't need perfect writing, beautiful language or consistent, flawless plotlines.
The Outsiders is one of those books.
But there is something else it has: heartwarming emotions.And sometimes a book needs nothing but to be full of emotions, and that's what moved me so much in this engaging tale which is, in its very essence, a love letter to humanity and friendship.

I LOVE this book.
I don't know why I find it so good.
The whole thing just seems so real.
It's really exciting, and the characters are all really believable.
I like how the story was written by a young author who really knew what she was writing about--she based it partly on the experiences of her friends.
It's like people say--"Write what you know." And S.E. Hinton did just that, and did an excellent job.
The book does have some corny parts, and is one of very few books that actually made me cry.
i was actually spoiled for the ending of this book by Fangirl (SO BE AWARE) but DESPITE THAT i still really really liked this book 😭😭i am weak for a group of tragic boys with tragic pasts who are outwardly dangerous and feared but are actually deep down soft marshmallows and love each other more than life and would die for each otherman, i love that trope
The rural-urban, poor-rich, havenots-haves, greasers-sops divide has formed the crux of countless number of stories that men had made up ever since they started witnessing them plague their real lives too, but The Outsiders explores the world of the teenagers who have come into the first touch of harsh reality where they have to fend for themselves and do anything to survive the vile, vile world; even if it includes killing people.
Only, they are not a bunch of savages running around flashing knives and brandishing weapons with a barbaric glint in their eyes-- but real nice kids who would just go to school and try to make it big in their lives if only they had the right avenues opening up before them.
And sometimes it defines a generation, or a culture or sub-culture of that generation.
That, my friends, is what this book does.
Is that what 15 year old Susan Eloise Hinton had in mind when she started to write this book?
It inspired her to write a story, their story, and by doing so it resonated across a nation, across a generation, and it became what it is today, a symbol of that generation, and a classic in American literature.
Actual Rating: 3.5 StarsThe Outsiders is a simple story; it's a glimpse into the lives of a gang of boys who all occupy the poorer side of their small town, and are otherwise known as greasers.
The poison of branding individuals by their social standing, the struggling combatting the taboo of leaving a small town in search of personal success.
Hinton actually ends up exemplifying the point of her novel with her own accomplishment of penning The Outsiders so early on in her life.
The older we get, the easier it is to underestimate how much young people truly know.
It's impressive that S. E. Hinton wrote this when she was sixteen years old. I wish I had been that ambitious at that age!
The story of Ponyboy, his brothers, and their gang of greaser friends was profoundly emotional.
The violence between opposing gangs, and the lack of adult knowledge or interference, seemed so sad and pointless, but adolescent rage with no direction or purpose has to exert itself in some way.
And if you know a teen that is raging against the hand they’ve been dealt, try to get a copy of this into their hands.A buddy read with the lovely Mary!For more of my reviews, as well as my own fiction and thoughts on life, check out my blog, Celestial Musings.
Of course, all this reading was accompanied by much heartfelt crying.I told my mom that it was my favorite book.
I think she knew things were only going to get worse for our mother/daughter relationship.I can't forget that she was a good sport and took me (and my sister, who probably didn't want to be there any more than my mother did) to see the movie adaptation of this book.
I even knew how bad it was at the time, even though I didn't want to admit it.One more note...My cousin LIsa was somewhat obsessed with this book at the same time I was.
I’m not going to give a synopsis because I’m sure everyone already knows what this book is about but let me just say, I love this book so much; it broke my heart and I can’t believe I waited so long to read it.
My family had been bugging me to read this since my 11th birthday, and I finally caved this year and let me tell you, I wasn’t disappointed in the slightest.
I love Dally Winston with all my heart, and after Adam Parrish, he is my favourite character, probably ever.
His religion, his face, his hair, the way he plays the same character in every movie (Tropic Thunder excluded, but that character was just as annoying as regular Tom Cruise, so fuck that guy too), but I can stand him as Steve in the film because he's just kinda...
If you're pressed for time, the film will do just fine.
Continuing the comparison of film and book (why the fuck not, right?), I believe that the movie handles (view spoiler)[Dally's death (hide spoiler)] better than the book.
So, if'n you unt to, give this 'ere audiobook a try, 'cause we all knows ya can't read words good.In summation: This is a classic.
But my aunt kept asking me if I read it, and after a few months I picked up the book, and from there, I couldn't put it down.
If you are ever hesitant about reading this book, don't second guess it like I did.
When you read this book, you leave your living room, and you end up in a different, scary world.
You read a story that people like you are actually living.
This book is fantastic and I have nothing but great words to say.
This book was absolutely great and deserves all the attention it gets.
Read this book.
Cramathon book #4: complete!This book broke my heart. I knew the story because I had seen the movie, but the book was so much more heartfelt and heavy. I definitely teared up multiple times while reading this and I loved it SO much.
