https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40363153-calico-palace
4 1/2I'm a bit torn with this one, I loved Jubilee Trail for its adventure and it's characters.
I loved getting to know the background story to the characters.
I liked Marny, Kendra, Hiram, Pocket, Lauren and yes, even Ted slightly.
As the story progresses I got to know him better and respect him.
(view spoiler)[She gave up her life in society because she couldn't be herself, she had to be what everyone else wanted.
I understand that, but I don't understand what she would want to live such a gamble instead.
This book is about what happens to this core group of people as they become known as the forty-eighters and then as they return to San Francisco and contribute to the explosive growth of that city.Gwen Bristow does a very good job of bringing the gold rush days of California to life.
Just getting to San Francisco was very difficult, whether by land or sea, then one had to get to the gold country.
After the main group of characters returns to San Francisco, we see how it grew in leaps and bounds.
This author brings the gold rush and San Francisco to life.
This is a book about Kendra, who with her mother and step father came to San Francisco right before the start of the gold rush.
Marny and Kendra return to San Francisco and Kendra works to rebuild her life, as Marny works on building a new Calico Palace instead of the tent she had at the gold camp.
The author does a wonderful job of bringing both San Francisco and the gold country to life.
Highly recommended for any lover of historical fiction or tales of the gold country.
CALICO PALACE is a richly descriptive historical fiction taking place in 1849 and beyond during the gold rush in California.
Throughout 1849, people around the United States (mostly men) borrowed, mortgaged, or spent their life savings to make the exhausting trip to this land in hopes of making it rich.Kendra Logan and her mother had just arrived in San Francisco in February of 1849 after making an arduous sea-faring journey battling Cape Horn.
Read this book for the history or because it a form of women's fiction; this is CALICO PALACE's strong suit.
Gwen Bristow's books are so tough, gritty and wonderful.
I actually slowed down my reading of this book, because I wanted it to last.
Those 50 pages seemed to drag and to almost lose the energy track of the story but I also see why she needed the cat for plot.It was so interesting to see how a woman could walk alone at night and she would never be harmed and yet ironically, they always had to have an escort during the day.
445: My grandmother used to have a cook who was happy and wise.
then forget it.'Gwen, I think you are great.
This one is about the trek from the East to settle California--the first time I read it I had no idea the Cajon Pass was a real place--it was fun to read again with new eyes!oops-looks like I mixed up her books--Jubilee trail is about the settling of the LA area--this one is about San Francisco in the early years.
I love her characters and how she weaves the history into her stories.
I just discovered that there are some more books by her that I never found in the library years ago.
I love how goodreads has such good lists.
The true protagonist of this book is the city of San Fransisco and how it was transformed from a village to a big city during 3-4 years. (1848-1850). So many fires and so much rebuilding that I lost count. The descriptions of the fires are accurate (http://www.sfmuseum.org/hist1/fire.html) but in the end they become repetitive. For me that I have never been and probably will never be (and surely not in this time period) in San Fransisco it was very interesting. I preferred Jubilee Trail though.
I don't know if I was distracted or the lack of sleep caught up with me -- all the fires sort of ran together at the end.The character development was so good...the way the men and women changed through their experiences yet stayed true to themselves, too, was to me one of the strongest parts of this book.
A close second, though, was all the history I effortlessly learned, woven into the story so well.
Also, although I consider this a book for adults, the "adult" material was handled with subtlety and skill, even humor, which I greatly appreciate in novels.I'm glad this books was recommended to me!
No one has ever heard of San Francisco in 1847 and Kendra does not relish going there, for she is not wanted.
As San Francisco grows and changes, Kendra does too.
This book follows that one in time sequence, telling the story of how San Francisco came to be a city thanks to the gold rush.
The characters are merely inserted into the history of San Francisco.
This is the author's fault for including too much history and not weaving her characters completely into the history of San Francisco.
Read this way back in high school...actually from the school library.
I suppose Calico Palace could be described as a romance, in that the two main female characters (and just about everyone else, it seems) end up married by the end, but it certainly doesn't read like a romance.
She quickly finds herself married, and then happily ensconsed on the goldfields with her husband and a motly crew of friends (including Marny, a beautiful redhead of questionable repute) before word of the gold got out.
Of course, this happiness doesn't last after she finds out that her beloved husband is actually married to someone else.
The book was well written, the story did take some unexpected turns, and overall I really liked it.
Through relationships, love, death, and town-eating fires (lots of fires) the story also tells of (and ends on) the character of Marny, an independant woman doing everything she can to remain independant, even when her means of making a living by being a card sharp are not accepted in polite society.If you liked Angle of Repose by Wallace Stegner, Forever Amber by Kathleen Winsor, or A Thousand White Women by Jim Fergus I recommend this book to you.
I read all of Gwen Bristow books as a teen and now re-reading as an adult.But Calico Palace is still my least favorite.
I love Kendra's spirit, to endure all the hardships she had takes a "lot of guts" as Marny would say.
There is just something about Calico that drags on and on after those first few chapters of everyone mining and then moving back to San Francisco.
I found myself skipping paragraphs of -- oh, I don't know -- just bulks of words that didn't seem to mean anything to the story.
Because I loved the rest of Gwen Bristow books, Calico Palace is just a 3 for me.
I loved reading about early San Francisco and the changes made by the wealth pouring in from the gold fields. A hundred years later I saw many of the unique features mentioned in the book and another forty years haven't taken away the romance and have added more. One of the great cities of the world, only the hardiest and bravest arrived at its waterfront and from across the mountains and the prairies in those days. The story of some of these individuals give more life and flavor to the already interesting history lessons in the book.
Probably 4 - 4.5 StarsRead and loved this book way back in high school. I've been watching for it at used book sales so I can re-read it. (I'm pretty sure it was a book my grandma loaned to me.)
Didn't realize this was an old fashioned western saga until I got a little ways into it. It's definitely written in the style of the mid 20th century, which is very much what I am used to.So for me, it was a great read by an author who was excellent at describing her settings. Not sure if today's young readers will enjoy it so much but I thought it was an excellent story with a perfect ending.
This author brings the gold rush and San Francisco to life.
This is a book about Kendra, who with her mother and step father came to San Francisco right before the start of the gold rush.
Marny and Kendra return to San Francisco and Kendra works to rebuild her life, as Marny works on building a new Calico Palace instead of the tent she had at the gold camp.
The author does a wonderful job of bringing both San Francisco and the gold country to life.
Highly recommended for any lover of historical fiction or tales of the gold country.
I loved it!!!This story of the California gold rush is not about the forty-niners, the prospectors who came rushing to the San Francisco area in 1849, but about the men and women who were there when it all began with the first discovery of gold in 1848, when San Francisco was a village of 900 people.
They were there when the first people who saw the gold were laughed at and called “crackbrains.” And they laid the foundation of the golden empire before the first forty-niners got there.
Marny is from a proper Eastern family, but she wants to live independently as a card dealer at her own gambling house (the Calico Palace) .The historical details are fascinating (I love reading about this period in American history) and I really enjoyed the likable, well developed characters in this book.
I loved the way Gwen Bristow balances their romantic storylines with the more modern themes of independence, personal empowerment, friends as family, and making positive choices in life.I read this book slowly because I enjoyed it so much and didn't want it to end!
I loved this book when I was a child, and I re-read it recently as an adult.
Since I live in the San Francisco area, I especially loved reading about what this area was like in its early days.
However, I just couldn't stand that Kendra's only goal in life was to be married.
The entire story line revolved around that ONLY way Kendra would be happy is if she was married to a man she loved.
And every time she married someone, she dropped her entire life, and followed her husband.
This book is Gwen Bristow's nominal sequel to "Jubilee Trail" - that is, it features different characters, but is set in the 1848 California Gold Rush, which is just where Jubilee Trail left off.
Many of the characters are similar to Jubilee Trail's - Kendra, a well-bred girl who marries a Gold Rush explorer and goes adventurer; Marny, the sassy card shark who is her best friend.
I have to say the characters are not quite as compelling as Jubilee Trail's but there is still no better portrait of the Gold Rush and its various adventures.
Things I liked about this book: It was set in Sacramento and San Francisco in the 1840's and there was SOME interesting tidbits about how these towns looked in that era.Things I didn't like about this book: it was way too long (589 pages).
It included very long boring details about what the main character, Kendra cooks for dinner and scurvy.
Half way through the book, Kendra kind of sizzles out and suddenly the story is told through someone else's eyes (Kendra isn't even mentioned in the last 20 or so pages).
It was not especially well written.I only skimmed the second half of the book because I was so bored with it.
Calico Palace does drag just a tad compared to other Bristow books, but I was still excited to get back to it when ever I had a chance.
I loved the focus on San Francisco history.
I had no idea that it started out being such a rough and lawless society.
I also loved the perspective of the first gold diggers, the ones who arrived before word got out to the East.
The characters, like all of Bristow's novels are intriguing and lovable.
She is a master at weaving history and fiction.
This book got me obsessed with the gold rush. A great historical novel for anyone who is interested in city development and sociology. I wasn't too enthused when I started reading it (for work), but MAN I got into it and went so far as to reserve a PBS gold rush documentary at the library to fill in the gaps. An easy read, cheesy at times, and something I wish I'd read in junior high/high school. The romance is chaste/tame and the "bad girl with a heart of gold" theme rocks my world.
The writing is very straightforward and some of the plot twists can be spotted a mile away (esp. if you've read Jubilee Trail) but a very fun read. It really brought the history of San Francisco and the Bay Area alive to me in a way that the history books never have and for that reason alone I give it high marks.
My mom recommended this book to me when I was about 12 or 13. I loved the characters and it was such a great way to learn the history of the fascinating city of San Francisco! This is the book that made me realize how much I loved history and it's much more fun to learn it when you have an engaging story. It just makes it feel more real!
How fitting that I found this book on our first to CA, in a bookstore named the Bookery, near the 100+ year old Cary House hotel we stayed at, in the old mining town of Placerville, CA. And our trip ended in San Francisco! This will only add to the read for me!
I'd read most of the books by Bristow and Frances Parkinson Keyes by the time I graduated from high school. I devoured their books. And as I was finishing their offerings, I discovered James Michener and Irving Stone. These four authors established my love of historical fiction.
First book I read as a teenager given to me by my grandma, Margaret Molloy Daratt. This is when I fell in love with reading.
Good story, easy read. The gold rush story told from the perspective of two women who are from completely different backgrounds and become close friends as they face adversity together.
