https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59780.Cosmicomics
let’s go with ‘rear’.So, what is cosmicomics?I may say it is comics of the universe; it is book of twelve short stories, with setting in all across the universe and from time even before big-bang to present day, and telling us the story of evolution of the universe.But that is about something written on the pages of this book, but not what the book itself is."This book is stupendous blast of creativity."Well, creative is a word short of describing this book.Where shall I begin?
And there are many more names, that look like mathematical formula and I don’t even know how to type them.Have you started realising the strangeness of this book!
I read four stories on first day, and by the time I finished fourth, I did not have stamina to read a single word more.
Qfwfq also narrates some stories in Calvino's t zero.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز هفتم ماه ژوئن سال 2003 میلادیعنوان: کمدی های کیهانی؛ نویسنده: ایتالو کالوینو؛ برگردان: موگه رازانی؛ تهران، بازتاب نگار، 1380؛ در 198 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1382؛ چاپ سوم 1387؛ شابک:9647359152 ؛ موضوع: داستانهای کوتاه علمی و خیال انگیز از نویسندگان ایتالیایی - سده 20 معنوان: کمدی های کیهانی؛ نویسنده: ایتالو کالوینو؛ برگردان: میلاد زکریا؛ تهران، پژوهه، 1383؛ در 155 ص؛ کمدی‌های کیهانی مجموعه ی داستانهای کوتاه نوشتهٔ ایتالو کالوینو است، که نخستین بار در سال 1965 میلادی چاپ شد.
Twelve dazzling stories from Calvino, where his ambition here was to create a ludic fiction that could reflect complex advances in science without losing his playful nature and sense of magic and lightness.
The stories he wrote were direct attempts to assimilate new thinking in cosmology in recognisably human - and comic - dimensions.Calvino prefaces his stories with a fact or hypothesis about the universe, then he moves on to get inside these vast abstractions, with his trademark qualities that give them a recognisable voice, which twists around the reader with a nimble and often humorous plot.
I will admit that a very great deal of my enjoyment of this novel stems from the fact that I'm conversant with real science in a big way and this book incorporates it all very heavily in the narrative.The book is kinda like this: think of five or six hella great popular science writers, turn them into short-story writers, let it have the feel of Marvel or DC cosmic-stage stories, and then have it feel right at home with Neil Gaiman's Sandman.I'm not joking.
And while the science bits and how it's written is very heavy in a way, I don't think it overwhelms the actual stories at all.
The relationship established between various scientific concepts, bizarre living beings and their lives thereof, presents a witty commentary on understanding of the environment and coming to terms with innumerable and inevitable changes that takes place in our lives in natural as well as unnatural or uncalled ways.
Compared to the uncertainties of earth and air, lagoons and seas and oceans represented a future with security.Also there is a subtle social commentary about the nature of human beings who acknowledge world not as one but as a society governed by numerous borders and boundaries and a fine distinction is sited as to who is who according to the place they belongs to.
I once heard about the vast differences between all of Calvino’s novels; that certainly seems true, each one of those books bare vague resemblances to one another; the similarities residing in minor things like, short story format, magical realist elements and gorgeous prose.
The entire book follows poor Qwfwq, if read literally, he is some sort of shape shifter—across species as well as subatomic particles—as he experiences the universe at varying times from the moment of its creation, to the development of matter, to the formation of the earth.
Or time either: what use did we have for time, packed in there like sardines?” Then Calvino tells his story about the creation of the universe just like the story in Genesis not in the way Moses (Genesis being the first book of Moses) but in a playful manner with his non-human characters whose names are mathematical symbols or algorithms doing out-of-this-world activities like putting ladder to climb up to the moon or throwing atoms just like how we threw balls up in the sky when we were kids.
Calvino opened this beautiful little collection with "The Distance of the Moon," a tale from the days when the lunar landscape could be reached with nothing more than a ladder and some well-timed gymnastics, so it struck me as appropriate that I began reading “Cosmicomics” on the night of a full moon.
The optical illusion that makes a low moon loom gigantically renders a familiar sight unusual, and stealing a few glances of it during my daily trek lent a tangibility to Calvino's story I wasn't expecting but didn't really surprise me.
I guess if there was nothing on tv and you were bored your mind might start wandering and you might possibly conceive that a civilisation of very tiny unicorns called Gzz and Tjsdfh might live up my arse but you wouldn't want to write a damn book about it, would you. However thin the book might be.
However the motivation of both authors was very similar - how do we as humans try to understand the complexity and wonder of the constraints and possibilities inherent in the structure of our reality?
I was reminded of GEB's recursion - our experience affecting our reality which ths affects our experience - in this lies all possibilities within the boundaries of our physics.
And Calvino sees the limitless lyrical and beautiful possibilities of the human condition - hope, joy, sadness, loss, yearning, lust, anger, confusion, jealousy, arrogance, love, desire - all contained within our universe, which of course containes the observer.Here he presents with deft touch whimsical, delightful observations in a style where A Brief History of Time meets Alice in Wonderland.
In a chapter entitled “A Sign in Space,” Qfwfq, who is in the midst of whisking through the Milky Way, stops and innocently draws a sign, the first sign, in fact, at a point in space, so that he can find his way when he comes around again in about two hundred million years.
Qfwfq points out that just the process of making the first sign itself involved considerable leaps of thought.
There was no longer any way to establish a point of reference.”In 1965, Calvino could not have known that the mass of signs he describes clogging the universe was an uncanny prediction of the Internet itself where signs and sights/sites grow in increasing numbers in cyber-space.
Storytelling at its best. I rarely read anything as creative as this, I mean the book's narrator is someone (or something?) called Qfwfq, and other characters in the book include (k)yK, Kgwgk and Mrs. Ph(i)NKѲ! It's a collection of stories about the formation of the universe using scientific terminology and ideas so I guess to fully understand Calvino's genius, some knowledge of science (especially Physics, astronomy and Earth Science) is a good idea.
The the tides gradually pushed her far away: the tides that the Moon herself causes in the Earth's waters, where the Earth slowly loses energy.Then comes the bulk of each of 10-15 page story, all but two of which are narrated by Qfwfq, a wizened old storyteller who has seen everything from the beginning of the universe and who tells it all in a down-home style that feels as if the audience has gathered around a campfire to hear tales of long-ago.
(This steady state theory, as it is known, has been opposed to the other hypothesis, that the universe was born at a precise moment as the result of a gigantic explosion.)" (63) Wasn't stead-state theory largely debunked before Calvino set these tales down?
All eleven of these tales are good, but if I had to pick a top-three-in-no-particular-order, they would be:1) All at One Point2) How Much Shall We Bet?3) The Light-YearsA quick word about the translation: I read William Weaver's Italian-English translation.
I don't read Italian, but from the English end, it seemed very well done.

Όλα αυτά τα παράδοξα εντοπίζονται στο σύμπαν του Ίταλο Καλβίνο.Ένα σύμπαν γεμάτο μηνύματα που βρίσκουν πάτημα στη σημερινή εποχή, με αλληγορίες και συμβολισμούς που πίσω απο το χιουμοριστικό τους τόνο είναι σε θέση να προβληματίσουν, να καυτηριάσουν και να ειρωνευτούν τον σύγχρονο κόσμο και τις δομές του."...ενώ όμως εγώ έκανα σαν μανιακός για να αποσπάσω από τα πράγματα άγνωστες συγκινήσεις, εκείνη προτιμούσε να συρρικνώνει το καθετί στην άχρωμη διάσταση της ύλης." (σελ.
Η φαντασία του Καλβινο είναι απίστευτη, οι ιστορίες περιλαμβανουν ανθρώπους που απο τις βαρκες τους δινουν ενα σαλτο και βρίσκονται στη σελήνη, εναν δεινόσαυρο που ζει λαθραία ανάμεσα στους ανθρώπους, ενα απο τα πρώτα πλάσματα της στεριας που κρυβει απο τη μνηστή του οτι ο προπαππους του ειναι ψάρι και πολλά άλλα περίεργα όντα που ζουν στο διάστημα με εναν τρόπο που αντιτίθεται στη λογική μεν, προκαλεί άφθονο γέλιο δε.
Ειδικά η ιστορία με τον τύπο που γράφει πινακίδες για να τις δουν οι μακρινοι γαλαξιες μετα από εκατομμύρια χρόνια και να σχηματίσουν την σωστή εντύπωση για το άτομο του, είναι απο τα πιο αστεία πράγματα που έχω διαβάσει.
[...] Non mi veniva mica di farla perché mi serviva, ma al contrario come a uno gli viene di fare un’esclamazione che potrebbe benissimo anche non fare eppure la fa, come uno che dice “bah!” oppure “mah!”, così io facevo la conchiglia, cioè solo per esprimermi».Una delle cose che amo di più, delle storie, è il fatto che si mettano a raccontare di un mollusco, un insignificante mollusco, o di un segno nello spazio imprecisato che non sappiamo neanche come sia possibile farlo, o di un pesce o di un dinosauro o dei colori, e poi arrivi alla fine e scopri che in realtà, gira e rigira, parlano di te.Le Cosmicomiche, per mia grande gioia, sono in pratica questo, schizzi, istantanee, ritratti di umana umanità tracciati con pennellate attente e allo stesso tempo estremamente naturali.
In ‘The Distance of the Moon’ Qfwfq tells us of a time that the Moon was closer to the Earth, and how on a full moon they would go out on the sea with ladders and climb up on the Moon’s Surface.In ‘The Lightyears’ Qfwfq is studying the sky with his telescope and comes across a sign board that reads “I saw you”.
But the real cracking point is when Qfwfq starts telling about the times when the lovely lady Ph(i)Nko goes to bed with her lover.
I have a feeling I will be re-reading these stories for many years to come.
The story is then set within that hypothesis where our narrator, Qfwfq, relates the story from the time he experienced each particular event in time.
My favorite stories were The Distance of the Moon, All at One Point, The Aquatic Uncle, How Much Shall We Bet?, and The Spiral.I read the original 12 Cosmicomics stories, but I actually have the entire collection which is the edition my library had.
However much I enjoyed these humorous and though-provoking stories, though, reading the original 12 was enough for my tastes in one sitting.
Cosmicomics is just what it says it is, a series of short comedies about the cosmos. The opening story, The Distance of the Moon, is so wonderful, I smiled the enitre time I read it. Calvino takes scientific facts and theories and gives them a human perspective(without any human characters), and does it all in the most simple, quirky way you could imagine. I loved every one of them. The Aquatic Uncle and The Spiral do deserve a special mention for being so lovely. How appropriate, to give this book stars!
Reading these stories by Calvino I couldn't help but think of Borges constantly. Maybe it was the character names that all sounded like they came from titles of Borges stories. Actually the whole collection felt like Borges to me, but if Borges had decided to write his stories based on science instead of about books, history and arcane knowledge. Since I don't really have much interest in science I never really got into these stories, although they are fun to read.
Cosmicomics...my third Calvino.
I know now not to wait too long - Calvino's stories have the tendency to sink deeper, to become more intriguing and less transparent as time progresses.
I can only imagine how beautiful this book must be in Italian, and I almost feel sorry for William Weaver for having to translate this (by the way, I find Mr. Weaver's translations of Calvino most excellent in terms of readability).
Calvino masterfully played with real scientific facts and made them relatable by poking fun at mankind.
What was truly amazing about this collection is that, rather than concentrating on facts (as Borges did), Calvino concentrated on characters and their interaction.
For instance, in the one I just finished, the eternal protagonist sees a sign placed on a star 100 million light years away reading I SAW YOU, and realizes it refers to an incident in his own life 200 million years before (time for the light to go out and back).
Embarrassed to find that actions he'd hoped had been forgotten had been noted, but not wanting to give too much more away in explaining, he places a noncommittal SO WHAT IF YOU DID and waits another 200 million years for a reply.
Same ISBN as this edition but mine's older (1968). I'll let that lie. I read this after "The Path to the Nest of Spiders" hoping that this one wd have more formal language play.. & it did, but not necessarily enuf to satisfy me. No doubt it was very good but I'm playing it safe here & giving it a 3 star.
تخیل ناب. آنقدر که در بعضی داستان ها فضا ناملموس و همین باعث جذابیت بیشتر میشد. کشمکش ذهن برای جا باز کردن در دنیای کالوینو. مارپیچ، دایی آبزی، سالیان نوری و فاصله ماه رو خیلی دوست دارم.
تخیل ناب. آنقدر که در بعضی داستان ها فضا ناملموس و همین باعث جذابیت بیشتر میشد. کشمکش ذهن برای جا باز کردن در دنیای کالوینو‌. مارپیچ، دایی آبزی، سالیان نوری و فاصله ماه رو خیلی دوست دارم.
Sure I know a few things about the speed of light, planets around other stars, and the composition of comets, but what I don't know is so immense within the context of my view, that I become a believer of my own imagination.
These stories are just that: simple beliefs tethered to the reality of the universe.But that's not a small thing!
The universe is a scientific place and science is unyielding.
Science is cold, it's unforgiving, and it will rightly destroy lives if that's what science requires.Calvino provides access to this unyielding world by creating cracks through which the human imagination can sneak in, move around, and experience science in non-scientific ways.
نویسنده حرفای فلسفیشو ریخته توی قالب نجوم و خوب هم ریخته ولی از اونجایی که خیلی خوب به نقطه ضعف های ادم و چیزایی که آدم دوست داره قایمشون کنه اشاره میکنه اعصابمو بهم ریختهمخصوصا اینکه متن حرص دراری هم دارهدر ضمن ترجمه هم خوب نبودباید اسمارو زیر نویس میکرداز اون متنای چند لایه ... ازینا که ادم باید صدبار بخونه تا بفهمه طرف چی میگهاز بس خلاقهواقعا جدید بود
It was very joyful reading! the stories started from before the big-bang and goes on. it is kind of prehistoric science fiction (before the invention of time and history:)).
Θα του βάλω ένα έξτρα αστεράκι επειδή το τελείωσα ενώ με τις συλλογές διηγημάτων έχω περίεργη σχέση. Το λες παραμύθι που σε ταξιδεύει μέσα στο χωροχρόνο, κάπου στην ακρουλα ενός τίποτα βλέπεις τη δημιουργία του κόσμου. Δεν με κέρδισε όμως. Πιο αγαπημένο διήγημα ήταν 'Οι δεινόσαυροι'. Έτσι παράμ παπάμ έχουμε 3 αστεράκια.
