https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6561374-we-can-remember-it-for-you-wholesale
"We Can Remember It for You Wholesale" is better known as the movie Total Recall and, like Minority Report, the movie and the original story have only a nodding acquaintance with each other.Douglas Quail is a boring man with a low-grade, boring job and a contemptuous wife who criticizes him daily.
His wife seems oddly disturbed by the idea and tries to dissuade him, but Quail thinks he's found a way to have his unaffordable dream: He visits Rekal, Incorporated to purchase a fake memory that will be implanted in his mind, entirely realistic and indistinguishable from actual memories.
He begins to undergo the procedure, but then a problem arises: it turns out Douglas Quail—although some of his memories have been erased—really has been to Mars, really has been a secret agent after all.Great plot for a movie, yes?
Without going into details, beyond this typical adventure fantasy (similar to those found in the brain of the teenage boy or the the frustrated middle-aged man), there is another, more primitive fantasy rooted in Douglas Quail’s psyche, something almost too dumb for the most exploitative pulp science fiction.
Classic novelette by PKD that was the basis for the first adaptation of Total Recall. :)Aside from some of the later nuttiness of the movie, I was very surprised how faithful the film was to the original story. :) So many great aspects carried over. :) Gotta love classic PKD! This is just plain fun.
"Ironically, he had gotten exactly what he had asked Rekal; Incorporated for. Adventure, peril, Interplan police at work, a secret and dangerous trip to Mars in which his life was at stake - everything he had wanted was a false memory.The advantages of it being a memory - and nothing more - could now be appreciated."This one was great! Very short, but masterfully written and constructed. I particularly enjoyed the humor and irony of the ending.
QUÉ LIBRO GENIAL, aunque en realidad es un cuentecito, de solo unas 40 páginas.
pero es que, a veces (muchas) pasa que hay que aprenderse una cultura completa, a lo J.R. Tolkien, solo para leerse un librecillo, y no siempre tengo la paciencia.
Cuando están bien escritas, claro, porque por supuesto que hay otras terribles.
Qué libre me siento cuando leo estas cosas, y es que en este género todo es posible.
El autor es realmente un ser todopoderoso, y hace que me den ganas de convertirme en uno, solo PARA HACER Lo QUE QUIERA con mi historia, de las formas MÁS INIMAGINABLES.
The original story formed the basis for "Total Recall." The movie follows the outline. I think I will like Mr. Dick and I anticipate further reading.
Douglas Quail lleva una vida desencantada. Su mayor sueño es viajar a Marte, pero no puede permitírselo. Así que se le ocurre visitar la empresa Rekal, donde se encargan de insertar recuerdos falsos, en este caso de unas vacaciones en Marte. No obstante, algo inesperado ocurrirá durante el proceso.Se trata de un relato bastante bueno, con una idea sumamente interesante.
Wow. SO much better than the movie! Hollywood ought to be ashamed of itself! 5, holy cats that was amazing, stars. It’s a short freebie online and completely worth it!
Included was the movie "Total Recall" which was based on this story.
So we rectified my pop culture deficit by reinstituting an intallment of our long-lost Sci-Fi Night and watching the 1990 and the 2012 version of "Total Recall".
I could try calling my own telephone number and hope that the person I'd switched with was now "me" Then maybe I could figure out what to do day by day.
I guess that's why it inspired 2 movies.After watching "Total Recall", I accidentally stumbled upon the television series called "Ringer" in which a girl takes on her sister's identity and tries to live her life.
Comencé leyendo a Dick con su novela ucrónica El hombre en el castillo por haberse merecido el premio Hugo, sin embargo, no la disfruté mucho, no tanto como esta pequeña historia de la cual se basaron las dos películas "Total Recall" en 1990 y 2012. La de 1990 fue tal vez la primera película de ciencia ficción que vi en mi vida. Me han dado muchas ganas de verla de nuevo.Todavía tengo muchos libros pendientes de PKD así que vamos a ver como van los demás.
The story itself hasn't changed, so I'm not sure why they renamed it for this release, except for name recognition.Phil Gigante does a great job as narrator, making the interesting decision of portraying Douglas Quail with two different voices - one is the main guy who thinks he is an average joe who can't afford a vacation to Mars, and the other is the secret agent hiding in his head.I haven't seen the movie, so I'm not sure of the intricate differences between the two, but the audio book is 1 disc and a quick listen.
I love any of Dick's mind blowing stories and this is one of his best.
It's short so even more of a treat because he sets it up, breaks it down and then sets it up all over again in less than 25 pages.I think everyone is familiar with the Arnold Schwarzenegger movie version of this tale.
Who didn't love thatt?
My kids even love this movie.
The newer version...not so much.
The first movie works because of the shtick, but the story works because of Dick's genius way of creating a literary ouroboros.
Ah, cómo me encantan los libros de este hombre.
My very first Philip K. Dick story! Off to find more.
But when Rekal's technicians go to plant memories in Douglas' brain, everyone is in for a big surprise.A Short Story with Little to OfferPhilip K.
Still, I can't deny that, for many, there must be something to Dick's dated, minimalistic writing, as so many of his short stories lead to full-length feature film adaptations, some of which have even been good.
So when I say I came away frustrated by poor characterization and clichéd plot twists, it has nothing to do with comparing or contrasting this story to the films.When reading old science fiction—"We Can Remember" was first published in 1966—you should always expect the content will feel dated.
I love this story - in just a few pages it is a prime example of Philip K. Dick's inexhaustible inventiveness and wittiness. Here especially I was delighted by the story twist(s). Although paranoia as an omnipresent theme of his stories sometimes enervates, in this story that didn't bother me an iota :)
The basis of both Total Recall movies (1990 and 2012), the story is short and interesting, a fast read, with a nice twist at the end.P.S. Had no idea that so many movies have Philip K. Dick's stories as inspiration.
qué maestría la de soltar esta historia en el momento en que k. dick decide soltarla. a diferencia de la película, que se empeña en darle un final. (nada contra la(s) película(s) basada(s) en este cuento, fabulosas ambas.)
Things go wrong when it appears he really was a secret agent on Mars...OVERALL: 2.8 out of 5It’s almost impossible for me to keep my ideas about the movie out of my thoughts about the story; I think it changed my perspective while reading it as well too, and the story may have been harder to understand without that background.The story is clever though.
They aren’t that interesting really; it’s the story that keeps things going.Pace: 4 out of 5Dick’s writing seems almost frantic.
Total Recall starring Arnold Schwarzenegger is one of my favorite movies, and it makes itself known in my daily life.
When that happens I always think of that scene in Total Recall where they turn off the air fans to try to suffocate the Martian riff-raff.We Can Remember It For You Wholesale was a good short story, and I enjoyed it, but honestly, it lacks the excitement of the movie.
Usually I am disgusted when Hollywood takes a perfectly good story and then amps it up, changes it, and well, Hollywood-izes it.
Dick's work and building a great sci-fi/action story upon it.
Having seen both versions of the movie based on this story, I finally got around to reading it.
The second surprise was how little of the plot of either version of the movie, especially the similarities between the two, was actually in the story.
Turns out he was a spy who had his memory wiped...
And decide implant a fake memory that will stop him from longing for Mars, but that turns out to be true (and utterly ridiculous), too.
This turns out to be one of those rare cases where I like the movie (both versions) better than the book.
This is dystopian short story at its finest! And what's creepy is... I think... I'm recalling already having known what happens... have I visited Rekall?? Seriously I'm creeped out in a thrilled way. I may have read this in grade school.In the preface to my edition, Philip K. Dick writes about the paranoia humans feel because of the age-old fear of predators, and that these stories of the future are really of the past. The question of whether it's worth it to "fulfill" your desires by essentially tricking yourself is complicated. Very happy with this short story.
I always feel weird reviewing a PKD story because I'm worried I completely missed the point but IDC. What I loved about this book is how it attacked the human memory. I firmly believe most people trust their memory too damn much. That was the point made when he was being sold on the Recall procedure. Memories are inaccurate and finer details are always lost but manufactured memories are what sticks. That's what people WANT to remember. Of course, PKD then takes this idea and then make one hell of a Sci-Fi story out of it. I love Dick
I can't believe it~ The story that inspired Total Recal.I had no idea. It was a great story and I enjoyed it more than I thought I would, probably in part to remembering the movie and the differences.This was a part of a "reading list" I am working through and this was a pleasant surprise to find. I'm not so sure about the new movie coming out, but at least now I know it was loosely based on this story.
I had no idea that Philip K. Dick's stories were the inspiration behind so many of my favorite sci-fi movies. This one is an enjoyable short read.
ძალიან მაგარია, ეს ოხერი.
Me encantó. No tengo palabras.
مثل اکثر کتابهای علمی-تخیلی مبهم و پیچیده بود. آخرش هم مبهم تموم شد. از اون کتابایی که باید چندبار خوند.
But subjectively - quite the opposite entirely"This made me think of abstract philosophical problems such as a brain in a vat (are the expereinces of a brain in a vat real or simulated?), or the Ship of Theseus (if you take apart a ship and rebuild it, is the same ship?), as oppose to emotional responses to experience.
What identity are you presenting online, as oppose to the one in person?
How you respond emotionally to an experience is what matters, and is what you remember - so, just as we are the sum of all our decisions, we are the sum of all our memories?3.
I am known for saying, “The book is ALWAYS better than the movie.” In the case of the e-book Total Recall by Philip K. Dick, my quote needs to be revised to read, “ The book is ALWAYS better than the first movie, and so far the same holds true for the second.” Admittedly, I have always liked the original movie with Arnold Schwarzenegger as Quaid/Hauser, and I have recently viewed the 2012 reboot with Colin Farrell which I felt more closely tied (in some degrees) to the source material, namely “
Dick, my quote needs to be revised to read, “ The book is ALWAYS better than the first movie, and so far the same holds true for the second.” Admittedly, I have always liked the original movie with Arnold Schwarzenegger as Quaid/Hauser, and I have recently viewed the 2012 reboot with Colin Farrell which I felt more closely tied (in some degrees) to the source material, namely “We Can Remember It Wholesale.”	At 29 pages, Total Recall is a quick read, but if you really sit down and read it, you can find that there is more to the story than you realize.
