https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/782898.Penmarric

I love family sagas and Susan Howatch has written some amazing books about feuding families, intrigue, greed and complicated love and I discovered her writing when I first read this book years ago.An enthralling story that spans 3 generations of the Casttallack and how their obsession with owning Penmarric,  a mansion situated in the stark and beautiful area of Cornwall,    causes the family to be divided for ever.The characters are great and liked the way the story is told through the different
I love family sagas and Susan Howatch has written some amazing books about feuding families, intrigue, greed and complicated love and I discovered her writing when I first read this book years ago.An enthralling story that spans 3 generations of the Casttallack and how their obsession with owning Penmarric,
causes the family to be divided for ever.The characters are great and liked the way the story is told through the different members of the family.I have read this book a few times and when I read it again I enjoyed it just as much.
After twelve years and almost losing hope, fate takes a turn as the wastrel son of the current owner dies and a very young Mark is named heir to all of it.
Ultimately, that is half the fun of this book for those reasonably familiar with Henry and his devil's brood - can you pick out which of Mark's sons are young Hal, Geoffrey, Richard and John?
I loved Cashelmara (4 stars) and The Wheel of Fortune (5 stars), and was really looking forward to Penmarric, another in Howatch's series paralleling the lives of the infamous Plantagenets.
How can a tale based on the dynastic Henry II, Eleanor of Aquitaine and their Devil's Brood feel so flat, so empty, so dull?
Had I been reading it alone, I'd have given up after struggling to the half way point, but this was a buddy-read with my good friend Jemidar and we persevered together, slogging through the worst of it, hoping that things would improve; they eventually did, in the form of the final section which is based on Bad King John.
Sixty years pass – from the later years of Queen Victoria’s reign to the end of World War II full of every kind of family drama you could imagine.In the wrong hands it would be a mess, but Susan Howatch made it work.The foundations are strong: the story that has been set is that of Henry II; his wife, Eleanor of Aquitaine; and his sons, among them, Richard the Lionheart and King John.
Really more like 2.5 stars.I had high expectations for this book and thought I had everything I needed for a great reading experience:1.
A book by an author who I had previously read and loved.
I just wish the whole book had been like that.A final word of warning, you will find out more about tin mining in Cornwall than you will ever want to know within the pages of this book.
I know I did.Buddy read with Anna, whose company made it possible for me to get to the end of this monster.
داستان خانواده ای از زبان افراد مختلف اون خانواده!تو سبک کتاب های کلاسیکبدون چیز عجیب و غریبی توشو خود پنماریک هم قلعه ای که دست به دست تو خانواده می چرخهبا این حال خیلب روان و راحت پیش میرهترجمه هم خوب بود غیر یه سری کلمات عجیب و غریب که یهو به کار برده میشدمثل الله اکبر یا لا اله الله
I remember it as a very engrossing story, though when I first read it I had no idea who the characters were inspired by, though Howatch begins each chapter with quotes from historical works - her game here and in others was to take historical characters and put them in another time-frame, so in PENMARRIC we have Henry II and Eleanor of Acquitaine (think Peter O'Toole and Katharine Hepburn in THE LION IN WINTER!) transported to Cornwall in the late 19th/early 20th centuries.
In the late 1800s, Mark inherits the family manor, Penmarric, in Cornwall, England.
However, Mark and Jana are only the supporting cast of characters.
The novel is actually about five young men as they grow into adulthood and their relations with each other and their father and mother.I really enjoyed this epic novel that loosely parallels the Plantagenet family, Henry II and Eleanor of Aquitaine.
It is a deep and moving story about marriage, love, adultery, vindictiveness, and the effects these actions of Mark (Henry) and Jana (Eleanor) have on their children.
The writing is really excellent and draws the reader through the story.
The motivations of the characters, the relationships between the characters, the voices of the characters are all so well done.
Her characters, too, do not remain static but mature, grow, and change and their voices reflect this.
Sympathies with one character narrator become antipathies with the next.
I am constantly impressed with how Howatch can move story lines between centuries and situations and make them relevant so the reader learns about both periods and the people and places she sets them in.
I loved this book when it first came out years ago. I picked it up the other day at the library - wondering if it would hold up over the years. I'm at about page 80 and I am really enjoying it.10/10/10 I just finished it and it's still a good a read as when it first came out. I would recommend it to anyone interested in books spanning different generations. It is set at the end of the 19th century in Britain, mainly along the coast of Cornwall and extends to about 1945
Another fabulous book by Susan Howatch telling the Castallack family saga from 1890 to 1945. Jan-Yves story is my favorite among all the Penmarric's masters. It's quite interesting the parallelism made by the author with the Plantagenet history. Thanks Misfit for this book recommendation. The Wheel of Fortune will be the next book to read soon.
Odd book. Maybe it's supposed to be a bodice-ripper or an epic, or an epic bodice-ripper. But I found it tiresome, the characters less than likable and the historical settings more an attempt for Susan Howatch to appear erudite than useful for the plot. I did like the Plantagenet foreshadowing for each chapter, however.
The characters of Penmarric are deeply flawed individuals, but she writes great growth and change in them.The book follows a family through three generations from 1890-1945.
The book follows the circuitous and antagonistic relationships between he and his children by two different women.
I found this section most interesting with its wealth of information about the mining of tin.The book is in five sections, each narrated by a member of the family:Mark: 1890Janna (his wife): 1890-1904)Adrian (an illegitimate son): 1904-1914Philip (legitimate son): 1914-1930Jan-Yves (youngest legitimate son): 1930-1945
ابتدا بگویم قلم نویسنده بسیار روان واز ان بهتر ترجمه بسیار فصیح استاد ابراهیم یونسی بود ..رمان داستان پرکشش وجذاب زندگی سه نسل از افراد یک خانواده اشرافی است .داستان از سال 1890با داستان مارک اغاز میشود وتا سال 1945ادامه می یابد .البته با شیوه ای جدید ومتفاوت از اثار کلاسیک است.
وشخصیت های پرداخته شده ومستقل در داستان بسیارند .محور داستان عمارتی است قدیمی با نام پنماریک که بیشتر وقایع داستان در ان میگذرد .پنماریک رمانی است جذاب وخواندنی پر از شخصیت های زنده با شیوه داستانسرایی بسیار عالی.
I first read this when I was in high school, and adored it and read it multiple times.
As years passed I always meant to re-read it, then finally I became afraid to, fearing it would, well, suck - I don't always trust my youthful taste.
Finally I just dove in and was surprised to see that it is based on the story of Henry II and his "Devil's Brood", which would have meant nothing to me at the time.
(And how odd that I just watched "A Lion in Winter" a couple of weeks ago.
Drama-filled family stuff. It was entertaining for sure...but kinda depressing! I wish she had added just a few more wholesome, redeeming characters to get me through all the realistic, selfish characters. :) Each chapter was from a different character's perspective, and that was intriguing. It also reminded me of an Isabel Allende book I've read...similar family saga issues.
So everyone in the novel is a sad or horrible person, because of they all just hate each other.
Everyone who gets married ends up hating their spouse, or mistress or children or parents.
I just wanted at least one person to be nice and happy but what a mess of a family.
Then I realized that the characters are based on Henry, Eleanor and their darling children and spouses and it contains many quotes from really biographies which are copied into the actions of the novel.
The book is divided into 5 parts and commences in 1890 with the narrative of a young Mark Castallack who introduces us to Penmarric, an estate in Cornwall which was to be inherited by his mother Maud, but which instead went to her cousin Giles who in turn had warmed his way to Maud’s father affection, after the death of her brother.
With the death of Laurence, followed soon by demise of Giles, Marc takes over Penamrric and sets out to conquer Janna, with turbulent results that reverberate through two generations of the Castallack family, spanning over 60 years.The book from the very beginning calls out that it is more of a modern retelling of history of Henry II and Eleanor of Aquitaine and the rise and fall of the Plantagenet family.
Chapters again are large and narration again switches from one character to another.Instead of the 1300s, the historical parallel here is Henry II and Eleanor of Aquitaine and their "devil's brood," including Richard the Lionheart and the evil King John.
As much as I might have felt disappointed with tin mines replacing crusades, I spent so much time pondering the historical nuances in the context of Susan Howatch's story that I gained an even greater appreciation for and understanding of those events in history.
Bleak and DrearyThis is the story of Mark Castallack and his life with his family, actually, with his two families.
That is the story.It is well-written, and has a gimmicky plot device that lets contemporary characters follow the life of King John of England.
It was disappointing to me that even the main character, Mark, did not live there much.
His wife preferred living in a small farmhouse rather than the castle-like Penmarric.
It is my opinion that the most interesting parts of the book took place at the farmhouse.
The book should have been called "Farmhouse".
I went back into the time machine for this historical fiction read which was published in 1971.
I had read about Susan Howatch in Michael Korda's memoir, Another Life.
Susan Howatch had written her massive novel with one hand on the cradle and the other doing the typing, but, like most authors who succeed, she had never doubted that her book would be a bestseller." The book was highly successful when it came out--and is loosely based on the Plantagenet family--but takes place in Cornwall with a manor called Penmarric taking the place of the throne.I've always enjoyed multi-generational sagas and the overlay of Eleanor of Aquataine and the lives of her children make for some interesting points of view and plot twists.
Since I have always loved the Plantagenet era, these books perhaps appeal to me more than they might to others - - but even without a real knowledge of the historical parallel, Howatch does a masterful job of writing a great story.
You need to invest some time in reading this book - - -it is a pretty hefty one - - -but it is well worth it.
Some comments by folks on the Goodreads board have me anxious to look into her Starbridge series, in which her writing is supposedly even better than Penmarric and Wheel of Fortune.
A friend recommended Howatch to me and I read the first 2 books in her Church of England series.
Despite a tendency to not have any good, strong female characters, I loved them, and I'm not even particlarly religious.
So, when I found out that she had a series of books based on the Plantagenets (my favorite historical family), I immediately hunted them down.
There was not a single character I cared for.
There was also an extremely superficial resemblance to my favorite Plantagenet, Eleanor of Aquitaine.
I'm also seriously beginning to wonder if Howatch can present a complex female.
I loved good historical fiction.
I always loved a good family saga.
Because of Howatch, I became a voracious reader.
I read the History of the Plantagenets by Costain, family sagas by Trollop and Gaskell.
One can get the Trollop and Gaskell for free.I have read everything by Howatch, and much prefer her later novels than her first gothic suspense novels.Pennmarric is perfect for an afternoon by the fire or air conditioning depending on the season.
Turn off the phone and hang up the do not disturb signs.Howatch pulls no punches.
She examines the darkness and goodness in human nature.
This book kept showing up on my recommendations list and was getting glowing reviews, so I was thrilled when I found a copy at my library.
I was expecting Daphne du Maurier so it was disappointing to say the least -- I am so happy I finally finished this book.
It's a family saga (which I normally enjoy) that spans 3 generations spanning about 50 years and told by 5 characters.
I finally realized that they were recounting one tedious episode after another and that there were no likeable characters to embrace.
This was a re-read for me. I know I read it probably 25 yrs ago, but of course, remembered nothing when I picked it up at a beach house for something to read. After enjoying the Downton Abbey television series, this family saga fell right in step with that one, through the change of the 20th century and WWI. I liked the way the book was put together with each character doing a segment from their own perspective. Very good read!
This is probably my favorite historical fiction book. I love how the sections alter your loyalty to characters based on the point of view of the narrator -- a character much despised becomes one to whom you are sympathetic, and a favorite voice becomes shrill and irritating. So impressed with this saga!
I could not get through this book. Generally I'm one to always plow through to the end, but only read about a third before giving up. I couldn't find it in me to like any of the characters and really couldn't bring myself to care about what happened to them.
I couldn't read this book. The plot, as far as I read which was longer than I should have, was very weak and mostly composed of illicit affairs. I'm not willing to give it any more of my time. I'm glad I only spent $1.99 on this book.
