https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10803121-the-alloy-of-law
What truly impresses me though, is that Sanderson has done something extraordinarily unique with this book.
First, Sanderson wrote the Mistborn trilogy, an amazingly good fantasy trilogy set it in a unique, carefully-constructed world with a well defined magic system.
You either write secondary world fantasy which is pretty medievally, or Renaissance-y, or occationally dark-ages-ish.
Most of the time when you do this, the setting is modern, which gets you urban fantasy.
Sanderson has written urban fantasy THAT ISN'T SET IN THIS WORLD.
My point is that this book is good, and you should give it a try.
Sometime in the future we will see an "urban fantasy" trilogy and finally a "science fiction" trilogy, all based on the same magic system and, if The Alloy of Law is any indication, religions and mythologies derived directly from the first series.But the author decided to give us a treat in the meantime, something that initially started out as a short story but due to an epic writing style, even "short" turns out to mean 300+ pages.
Wax is one of those people, and this is one of those books, so it’s not really surprising when he eventually tries to escape from the pedantic and joyless situation that is his life and goes to hunt down some criminals.
So it all goes down in the usual mistborn style, which means pieces of metal flying around, people flying around too and the bad guys getting it handed to them.
After the terrible ending of the Reckoners series, I need to be reminded exactly why Brandon Sanderson is so awesome and this book did exactly that.
3.5I was warned this wasn't the best one in this new series but I'm just happy to be back in this universe. I'm looking forward to seeing where things go now technology is advancing!
I mean...Sanderson is just amazing.
He writes so well, his characters are SO well-drawn, you simply can't stop reading.
The worldbuilding is stunning and vibrant and new...it's just, kind of ridiculous.This is a followup in the world of Mistborn, but you DONT need to read the first three to understand what's going on (you should read them though, because it is icing on the cake as far as details.) This is a world with an amazing magic system, but vaguely steampunk/industrial-era in ambience.
I went in without really remembering the first three, but the opening is one of the best I've read in a very long time.
Another day, another great Sanderson book.  “Some mistakes, though, you can’t fix by being sorry. Can’t fix them, no matter what you do.”  I haven't written a review in a while because life has just been crazy lately, but this book definitely deserves a proper review. Let's start at the very beginning. Somehow, Brandon Sanderson was able to rip my heart out and burn it just with the freaking prologue.  How is that even possible? The only other author who managed to do that was Colleen Hoover wit
I haven't written a review in a while because life has just been crazy lately, but this book definitely deserves a proper review.
At first I thought that would be too limiting and I was disappointed that the main character wasn't Mistborn but man oh man, was I wrong.
The Dialogue The relationship between Wax and Wayne gives me life.
(view spoiler)[So here's the thing, in Sanderson's books there's always this fake good guy.
Somebody who ends up betraying us from the inner circle so I was keeping an eye out for that and I guessed it pretty early on that the freaking butler was gonna screw us at some point haha.
I'll be honest, I was really skeptical to start the spin-off series at first as I think very highly of the original Mistborn trilogy and I'm quite sure the spin-off won't be able to top it in terms of quality and its epic story.
Just remember that this time the story is much more light-hearted and suitable for everyone, don't come into this expecting something dark, grand and epic like the original trilogy.Instead of writing the book like the previous trilogy, Sanderson decided to give a new atmosphere to the settings of the world.
And as a huge fan of the Mistborn trilogy, I knew going in that this would in no way match the original series in terms of… well, epic-ness (for lack of better terms) however, I was still certain that it’d not disappoint.
TAoL is set about 300 years after The Hero of Ages and though it’s a series that stands on its own, to get the most out of it and a better understanding of the world, I highly recommend reading them chronologically starting with The Final Empire.
It is descriptive and logical where the characters we've come to know and love from the first series have become mythical legends and heroes.
Actual Rating: 4.5 Stars "Wayne, you can't make bets with people when they aren't there." HOLD ON. HOLD ON A SECOND. I NEED TO SAVOR HOW HAPPY I AM IN THIS MOMENT. You guys, I cannot express how much I adore the Mistborn novels. The series is written so well, with characters that I love. This was such a clever and seamless transition into a new Mistborn era. As we have seen, adding to an already golden series doesn't always work out for the best. I'm looking at you J.K. Rowling. Wax and Wayne ar
"Wayne, you can't make bets with people when they aren't there."
HOLD ON.
HOLD ON A SECOND.
You guys, I cannot express how much I adore the Mistborn novels.
The series is written so well, with characters that I love.
This was such a clever and seamless transition into a new Mistborn era.
As we have seen, adding to an already golden series doesn't always work out for the best.
Wax and Wayne are a perfect, hilarious duo.
Also special shout out to all those throwbacks to the original Mistborn trilogy, for they made my heart glad.Buddy read this one with my girls Celeste AND Nafeeza!!!
It was ok 😏
I try to help him out by being damn near perfect, but so far, that hasn't been enough.”The duo of Wax and Wayne is definitely one of the best sets of characters Brandon Sanderson has created.
The second half was nowhere near as good as the first, and neither the villain(s), the revelations nor the actual progress of the story were particularly complex in any way.
The lack of nostalgia did not decrease the quality of the book or my enjoyment of it in any way, though; I’m just saying it could have been even better.In any case, I take what I can get.
I feel great to come back reading 'Mistborn'.'The Alloy of Law' genres are fantasy and sci-fi.This book has mixtured of era: western and modern times combined.Compares to the first book of 'Mistborn'. 'The Final Empire' was heavier. 'The Alloy of Law' is light hearted.'The Alloy of Law' introduced the characters and allowed us to get know those characters. This book focus on Wax, Wayne and Marasi.Wax and Wayne are very hilarious!My favourite characters are WaxilliumLadrian and Wayne. I really like Marasi too.
With Alloy of Law, Sanderson built on the amazing world he created in the original Mistborn trilogy and gave us more of the fantastic system, but in a new era with new technology advances and the problems that come with progress.
I was hesitant the first time I read this book, and didn’t give it the chance it deserved.
There were other characters that I enjoyed too, that I hope to see more of in the next books.
“The mark of a great man is one who knows when to set aside the important things in order to accomplish the vital ones.” ― Brandon Sanderson, The Alloy of Law🌟4.5/5🌟Not as good as the original trilogy but its still worth every second of your time !!
Re-read before Shadows of Self is release with some Sanderson buffs in the  Sanctum of Fantasy I'd forgotten so much. Wax, Wayne and Marasi together are hilarious. Definitely more light hearted than the first trilogy in the Mistborn world. I even think I found a few clues I missed the first time. Now I'm totally ready for the Shadows of Self release Oct 6Original Review Jun 20144.5 Harmonic Stars The Brandon Sanderson Buddy Read and Epic Adventure continues with Athena and Alexa. I had so much f
It is 300 years since the rebirth and I have to say that some of my favorite things in the book are how the culture and religions of this time evolved around the characters that I loved from the original series; From Harmony’s forearms replacing Lord Ruler as a curse to the religions surrounding the Ascendant Warrior and The Survivor as well as the genealogy back to Lord Mistborn and the naming of cities streets and buildings.
This is a lighter book than the original Mistborn series and I enjoyed laughing with Wax, Marasi and Wayne.
I know people get very excited about the pretty covers but does anyone else, like me, care more about the title? Just listen to these & tell me they don't promise awesomeness!  1) The Final Empire  2) The Well of Ascension 3) The Hero of Ages  4) The Alloy of Law  5) Shadows of Self  6) The Bands of Mourning (This has got to be my most favorite one!) 7) The Lost Metal (IS THIS WHAT I THINK IT IS?!)
After a slew of crimes, he soon discovers that high society is more cunning and dangerous than the anything experienced in Roughs.Sanderson speciality is in crafting a world and characters so complex and transfixing that you forget everything else around you just to experience it for yourself and by the end you are sitting there with a smile on your face (or more likely tears running down your cheeks), so thoroughly satisfied that you long to go back and read it again.
He’s probably gone by now.”“You didn’t grab the hat for me?” Wayne asked, sounding offended.“I was a little busy being shot at.”“Busy?
I had never read anything so imaginative or epic up to that point and it set the standard for me by which I was to measure future forays into the world of fantasy books.The second problem was that I fell in love with the characters in the first series and found it hard to part with them.
This book is NOT a more modern version of the Final Empire, but it is a story set 300 years after the events in The Hero of Ages, and thus in a more modern world.
It did not have that epic feel, but instead it was a light and fun story set in the same world with some pretty cool characters who kicked ass.
4.5/5 stars (rounded up)“It's all right Wayne," Waxillium said softly. "I've made a promise. I told Lord Harms I'd return Steris to him. And I will. That is that.""Then I will remain and help," Marasi said. "That is that.""And I could really use some food," Wayne added. "Fat is fat.”This quote right here is the most accurate description of the 3 main characters in The Alloy of Law. Also, this book right here is the prime example of how to write a second generation series that doesn't suck, but q
I loved the new ones right off the bat, and now I have more characters to add to my ever-growing bucket of ...well favorites.
You always did the thinking.”“Yes, having a brain helps with that, surprisingly.”​The Alloy of Law is much shorter, and thus is not nearly as developed or interwoven as the first three books are - but that is the point.
“At least, usually someone has the good sense to get dead when you go to all the trouble to shoot them.”The banter between Wax and Wayne is priceless.
Safe to say I squealed numerous times and felt the need to cry as well.It follows probably one of the best duo, Wax and Wayne, who I became obsessed with.
The wittiness, the constant banter even when everything was going to shits brought me pure and utter joy.This book is way more lighthearted than the original trilogy.
It's different, in the best possible way, but still there's that thread that links it to that other world.
It seems minute (and the story is mainly centred around those Wax and Wayne) and more than likely, there's a LOT more left to explore.P.S. THAT EPILOGUE FUCK ME!
And the Lord Mistborn - I see what you did there - and Wax is descended from Breeze - and Harmony aaaaaaaaaaah best deity ever I love him so much I can't even-) (hide spoiler)] I can't pry off that lens even if I wanted to - and I don't because this just felt like a love letter to the characters I adore - and tell you what this book's empirical merits are, not really.
The mark of a great man is one who knows when to set aside the important things in order to accomplish the vital ones.First I want to mention, that damn ENDING (if you've read the book, you know what I'm talking about).
The fighting scenes in this book were just as good as the fighting scenes in original trilogy, and since the fighting scenes were some of my favorite parts of the original series, I'm glad that the same stands for this book.One more thing I want to mention are the characters, especially Wayne and Wax (well especially Wayne).
Sanderson does the unimaginable in  Mistborn: The Alloy Era: he improves a ‘near-perfect’ formula of Mistborn and the fantastic world of ‘Allomancy’, and creates a story that is dynamic, full of surprises, with memorable characters and hilarious dialogue!
Having read the original Mistborn series, I feel ‘Allomancy’ becomes second nature to the story and much more organic.
Sanderson uses the world to shape everything about the story, specially the action sequences!
Wax coin-shooting through the airThe Alloy of Law was everything I loved about the original ‘Mistborn’ series, but with more flair, in a completely new ‘modernized’ world, and with characters that are memorable and unparallel action!
When I found out about this book I was a bit skeptical cause I was scared this won't live up to the original trilogy. I was right but that don't mean that this is not a great book.This book is incredible, a whole new cast and it happened centuries after The Hero of Ages, Trains,guns and electricity, all this mixed with allomancy and feruchemy which is widely known. I never thought I'll appreciate gun fighting book but Mr Sanderson did an amazing job and I love it. Some mentions about my babies “
“I got a sense for that sort of thing.” He sneezed.“You believed that Lessie really was a dancer, the first time we met her,” Waxillium said, rising.“That’s different.
“You wanna know why I really came to find you?”“Why?”“I thought of you happy in a comfy bed, resting and relaxing, spending the rest of your life sipping tea and reading papers while people bring you food and maids rub your toes and stuff.”“And?”“And I just couldn’t leave you to a fate like that.” Wayne shivered.
he met Wayne there who is also a twin born a slider and his feruchemy power is health storage.
It's set three hundred or so years after the events of the original trilogy, and what was once a traditional fantasy type feudal world is now a society in the midst of its industrial revolution.
It sort of has this steampunk/urban fantasy vibe going for it, only there are no Victorian social mores to get in the way (it's actually super feminist because of the legacy of Vin from the original trilogy, although class is still an issue, as it was in the original trilogy) and steam power isn't really a thing.
“The mark of a great man is one who knows when to set aside the important things in order to accomplish the vital ones.” 3.5 starsThis book was such a fun ride! Brandon Sanderson has become a comfort writer to me. Whenever I find myself in a reading slump or I am in that mood where I don't feel like reading anything on my TBR, I can always count on Sanderson to produce something that I will greatly enjoy. The Alloy of Law is a continuation/spin-off series of the Mistborn trilogy and takes place
He believes that he will live out his life in comfort, but there are strange robberies going on and it seems that Wax, together with his partner Wayne, are the only ones able to take on the task of figuring out who is behind the heists and why.The best thing about this book was the characterization.
Before commenting on the actual plot I would just like to note how clever Sanderson was with the concept of this book.
Still, I found this book to be highly enjoyable and am very excited to see how it continues.This is the sixth novel I have read by Sanderson and I still find myself awed by his intense and witty characters and worldbuilding abilities.
DNF at 20%. I still love Brandon Sanderson's writing and thought the worldbuilding was incredible! This was just a little too steampunk for me, though, and I guess that's not really my scene.
After the final events from  Mistborn #3  we are introduced to a bunch of new guys (well, you gonna have one small surprise at the end, so pick the book and find out).
I personally would never connect Mr. Sanderson and Steampunk, oh well, he did better than good in writing  The Alloy of Law  which beats  Mistborn Trilogy  for me (sorry, not so sorry).Our  two main and new characters  are no one else than Wax and Wayne (no, not Bruce Wayne, but trust me when I say that this Wayne is even more charming than Bruce).
I read this book 6 years ago!
It's about time I write something here :)This book is totally different in tone than the first Mistborn trilogy, and that's exactly what Brandon had intended it to be.
It's shorter and less epic, but a Really enjoyable read.
300 years after the breathtaking ending of Mistborn trilogy we find a different world - a world that achieved steam technology and a lot of other stuff.
More than that, there's so much more knowledge about allomancy now, and it's regarded as science.Wax and Wayne are the new main characters and they make a really great team together, and deliver a lot of funny moments.5/5
Here we see a few combinations, including those of the main characters, Wax and Wayne.Sanderson's characterizations and dialog rarely come close to his skills with worldbuilding and plotting.
I do like the main characters, but the villains here weren't as sophisticated as I was used to seeing from Sanderson.
Overall The Alloy of Law is not on the level as the first Mistborn trilogy, but there is great potential for the series and I'm really looking forward to continuing it.Michael Kramer is an outstanding reader, with a wide range of voices and accents.
