https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11947829-ascend
Some may cry, some may cheer, but in my opinion, Hocking has written one of the best series in YA fantasy.We left Wendy in 'Torn' engaged to her friend Tove.
Willa does a lot of growing in this book and her relationship with Matt has changed her for the better.
I think I liked and was annoyed by each character of this book at some point or other.
I laughed out loud at some of his come backs.I can’t give away the ending, but I can give you my opinion of a few questions I know I had before reading 'Ascend'.
I read through the reviews & to be quite honest, I am totally appalled that people acually enjoy Wendy ending up with Loki.
I was totally team Finn, but in the second book, I didn't mind if she ended up with Tove.
It would have been great to have them fall in love despite the marriage being arranged before they ever met.
Also, the author really started to aggravate me with Tove, his character in this book became so lame.
Just because he started dating, does not mean he would totally ignore Wendy & Matt.
it doesn't make sense & frustrates me to no end.
After reading the first two books, I thought the story was interesting and had an intriguing storyline but overall, the entire trilogy went downhill fast.
Then, the entire time, I'm thinking that Wendy is in love with Finn, her tracker and that something would happen in the end with him because he is a different class and I thought Wendy would make changes to that once she is Queen but nothing happens between them.
I feel like the author wrote this book about a girl who everyone falls in love with and she apparently gets everyone's cake and eats it too.
"Don't act on everything your heart says, but make sure you listen to it. Sometimes your heart is right."  Well, where should I start? This book... This series... *cries with happy tearsOne of my biggest problems in reading a final book of the series is the separation anxiety that I always get. With this book, I found myself experiencing the same. It's hard to let go of a series that basically makes you feel attached to the story, the characters, and its world. Ascend is another one of those s
*cries with happy tearsOne of my biggest problems in reading a final book of the series is the separation anxiety that I always get.
I won't be mentioning who Wendy ended up with because it's a huge spoiler but OMG, the romance really got me in my feels!!!
As a final book of the series, the action should be intense and extremely boundless -- scenes that will wow you and give you goosebumps.
But in this book, the action scenes were kind of lame and they were just basically heard from the characters and were not really seen.
I love the romance, the characters, and the satisfaction I got after reading this.
Hocking seems to have realized late in the game that she needed to resolve points from her first two books in this trilogy and she kind of just jams those resolutions in without any honest flow.
Wendy has three guys in her life, but the person she seemed to want the most for the first two books is just kind of there in this one and she's suddenly deeply in love with someone else.
Another similarity to Meyer's work is the seeming need for everyone to have a happy ending.
I could go on and on for days about the problems in this book.Hocking needs an editor desperately.
The author made me fall in love with this couple and then out of no where, it's like...
I did love how much Wendy changed and became the queen she was meant to be but it was a slap in the face that she chose Loki over Finn.
Loki was cool and I understand how she could be with him when they were in the other place but...
Finn was her love and he had a sense of duty.
I understand she wanted him to fight for her and it seemed like he just accepted his place but omg.
I do have some nicks but nothing super serious.I loved seeing the development with Wendy and her mother.
I loved that the author was able to make me rage war with myself in who I liked better.
I can appreciate some realness in that.One character I would like to know more about is Tove.
I loved him and I hope that maybe the author will do a novella or something with his character.One thing I was SLIGHTLY disappointed with was the final climax fight scene.
I was okay really with but it just lacked….a little something more I guess.Overall I loved this book and the trilogy.
You could call it an obsession.In this paranormal tale, Wendy learns at the age of seventeen that she is a troll.
I guarantee that you have not read a series quite like this before.Plain and simple – Wendy rocks!
Wendy has more boy trolls after her than she keep track of.
Amanda Hocking has written some of the most epic battle scenes ever.
They were so real that I could FEEL them.This series about trolls surprised and entertained me.
I will definitely be looking for more Amanda Hocking books to read.RATING5 LovedCOVER COMMENTSI like how the covers are so similar and work together to tell the story.
My hormones are all over the place.This book had be blown at who to choose: Loki, or Finn??Literally me while reading this book: "okay..........OMG, I love Finn!.....wait no, hold on....Loki's being pretty sexy too............arrgghhhhh!....No!
I love Loki!.........Wait no!
Wait, but Finn's still really cute, though..."Like, I need my heart to stop!!NO, not literally, but you just can't choose!!!
A MESS.(loki's really cute...teehee!)*ahem*ANYWAYS, this book has all the action and adventure you need!!
Just take this book and get a passport, you'll be everywhere in no time!But yes, there's the romance to get a hold of, the characters, (your passport), but in the end, you know it's one boy or the other...Who will you choose??DUN-DUN-DUN!!
⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱*Glad I'm done with the re-read*⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱ This review is purely for me and might contain spoilers and facts from the book to keep myself in the known at all time. It's also long and somewhat detailed.  Second re-read: 04.06.2018 We're back with the last book in the trilogy of Wendy Luella Everly (17, turns 18 in the beginning of the book). She is marrying Tove Kroner in order to save the Trylle from their deadliest enemy; the Vittra. She's not in love with him - nor is he in love with her -
Other characters:I've put these in a spoilers tag simply because it's a long list; contains spoilers.(view spoiler)[↦ Finn Holmes (20), a Trylle and a tracker; it’s his job.
(hide spoiler)]↦ Rhys Dahl, a mänsklig ‘mänks’.
We find out that Oren is Wendy's father.↦ Jen and Kyra, Vittra trackers.
Like Wendy, he is half Vittra and half Trylle.
Hanna's father died trying to protect them in the attack of Oslinna by the Vittra (the hobgoblins) (view spoiler)[Ends up with Finn.
(hide spoiler)].↦ Laris, a Marksinna who doesn't like Wendy.
- (view spoiler)[Wendy has sex with Loki while married to Tove.
The much-talked about love between Wendy/Finn or Wendy/Loki was a complete surprise to me.
Wendy and Finn shared an emotional final "break-up" of sorts, in which she tells Finn why she moved forward with Loki, and gave up on the hope of a Wendy+Finn future.
As the story progresses with more Wendy/Loki moments, I had no disappointment what so ever about the final love outcome.
They truly do seem perfect together, and though it was sad to see both Wendy and Finn have a little heartbreak, it was worth it in the end to see the final outcome.
Only Wendy stands in the way.The final book in the Trylle Trilogy has great character development and an excellent romance.
I was, however, a bit underwhelmed by the ending.
Wendy can be a bit dramatic.
I think she may have been a bit too confident by her almost-queen status.
So I did get a bit frustrated with her decisions.
I actually quite enjoyed the way the love triangle played out in this series.
This battle that finally arrives, to me, was a bit underwhelming.
I also had a great time getting to know the numerous characters inside it.
Also, I know that her character grew up quite a bit, and I can say I did see the progression, but I still found myself doubting her at times and not quite believing she was capable of doing what she set out to do.
Wasn't in love with the Queen at first, but wow I felt for her by the third story and I couldn't believe what she went through and how hard her life was.
I heard there will be a spin off series and I'd love to read more about this world and the other characters in this trilogy.
To the end of book 2, Torn; Wendy remained a whinny, immature girl and the author had offered us NOTHING to support Wendy's transition to her more mature self.Another character just as unbelievable as Wendy is Oren, King of Vittra and the arch villain in the story.
Oh, they all got shove into the background, whatever potential they had in the previous book never get developed into anything deeper.Okay, maybe the author wants to focus on Wendy, Finn and Loki, but if it were the case their love triangle is as badly written as the one among Bella, Edward and Jacob from Twilight.
At her new school, Wendy meets Finn, who introduces her and walks her through her new life as a Trylle (Troll in english).
So what I wasn't happy about (and this is SPOILER - so please discontinue here if you wan to read)I wanted Finn!
I understand why Loki ended up being the better fit.
I also wanted Tove to step up and give her a strange fit of passion and the happy ever after in that direction.
I want to impress that this was a trilogy worth the read though!!)
Ooohhh....the story...the action...the angst...the political problems...and much important...the roma1nce! I love it all!This trilogy's epic!
Fabulous series! And also a little unexpected ending. I totally thought she would end up with the other guy but I liked how it ended!
Tove is still so sweet and cute and lost in his fucked up life.
Don't get me wrong; I'm team Loki since the first book even though that he isn't there.
But I really want to see something between Tove and Wendy.When Wendy was honest with Finn, I was so happy.
Shea told him the same thing I was thinking about him since the first book.Really glad that there was a minimum of Matt and Rhys.Anyway, the end was not written properly; there is so much to change.
The plot isn't super intricate or twisty - it's very straightforward and predictable, but that didn't stop me from enjoying the book.We don't really figure out how everything is going to work out with Wendy's father until the very end.
It seems like Wendy searches for a way to defeat him for the entire book, but doesn't have an aha moment until the climax of the novel.
I would have liked to see more depth in the series plot, this book's plot, and the ending of this book in general, but that's okay.
And I already mentioned this above, but I would have liked to see more depth in this book, and series in general.
A lovely end to this cute series.
The first time I read it, I wanted Finn and Wendy to end up together, but this time, I totally get the direction Ms Hocking went with.
While Finn and Wendy had passion, duty continually got in the way of their happily ever after and after three books of this, it gets a little sickening.
Loki was a wonderful character who is actually a perfect fit for Wendy and is just who she needs to help her rule her kingdom.I love how Wendy grew throughout the series, too.
The world is incredibly original and I love how the characters grow throughout the series.
Everybody deserves a Happy Ending and I just...
I wrote a review for this on my blog, but since I wrote it right after I finished reading the book, I was on a bit of what I call a "book hangover." Yeah.
She truly showed her love for Wendy, and it made me cry.
I loved the book, I really hope there's more!
I loved this book's action (There's more in this one.
I think I can compare this book to Twilight and The Hunger Games.
Twilight because Wendy is like Bella with nothing short of a billion guys in her life and she has to choose one.
I was looking at reviews for this book specifically and I found out that a lot of people love Loki a lot and that makes me feel like a bad person because I absolutely hated that bitch.
You could tell he really loved and wanted to be with Wendy.
The whole Loki/Wendy thing I felt was just thrown together last minute which I hated!
And i'm gonna be honest the only reason I rated this one star was because she didn't end up with Finn AKA the one I felt was truly made for her.
But whatever I cant change this book so I will still cry about it for the rest of eternity.
This book was absolutely amazing. Out of the trilogy this book was the best. The romance, mystery, the story building up the ending was amazing. The storyline was phenomenal. IT WAS THE PERFECT ENDING. I couldn't think of anything more perfect.
Perfect conclusion to the trilogy, everything wraps up super nicely. I never thought I will enjoy this as much as I did. Elora turned out to be a good mother, that is so sad as we only see a little of her. I'm so thrilled that my ship is sailing <3 Overall this is a great book filled with actions, romance, politics, and all the good stuffs.
This book was freaking amazing! Like the whole plot and even the ending was perfect. I loved this series so much and I will definitely be rereading it very soon
I'm sure there are more than a few people who wish Amanda Hocking had taken the obvious route with her plot, but I for one am so glad she didn't.
Wendy is trying to save her people but they continue to fight against her and amongst themselves making her task seem insurmountable.
I love that Wendy fights for what she believes in, whether it is popular or not.
It's marvelous that after getting to know Hocking's style she can continue to surprise and delight me with the artistry of her story telling.
I'm thrilled about Amanda Hocking's recent successes and I wish her many more.
I really wanted to love the finale of this series.
This book centers around the war with the Vittra.
Wendy grows a lot and is pretty much running things around Forening.
My main problem with this book is my main problem with the entire series.
With that said, the series was okay, and definitely worth the $5 I spent on all three books through the Barnes and Noble Nook store.
I'd like to know what kind of a ruler Wendy became.
What about the other aggressive Vittra toward Wendy?
How did she know Wendy was changed at birth?
In the beginning, I really didn't think that I would like this series.
It was hard for me to think of "trolls" as anything more than ugly, mean, selfish, short creatures who live under bridges and won't let anyone cross (goats, Dora, etc.).
But as the series progressed (and I got used to the whole troll thing), I actually enjoyed it a lot.
The plot wasn't too predictable and after she grew up, I started to appreciate/understand Wendy.
Given the fact that I absolutely adored most of the characters, I can now add "I am in-love with trolls" to my never ending list of Fictional Character Loves (FCL).
*Actual rating 4.5⭐*Synopsis (Spoilers if you have not read books 1 & 2)With Elora's condition quickly deteriorating, Wendy has been forced with the challenge of ruling a kingdom she initially had no interest in or cared for in the least. But as certain events transpired, she found herself playing the part and performing her duties with an iron fist.For full review continue to my blog belowhttp://clearingthecranialcongestion.w...
*Actual rating 4.5⭐️*Synopsis (Spoilers if you have not read books 1 & 2)With Elora's condition quickly deteriorating, Wendy has been forced with the challenge of ruling a kingdom she initially had no interest in or cared for in the least. But as certain events transpired, she found herself playing the part and performing her duties with an iron fist.For full review continue to my blog belowhttp://clearingthecranialcongestion.w...
