https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24785.The_Foundling_and_Other_Tales_of_Prydain
Lepa kolekcija mini prica smestenih u svet Pridejna u vreme desavanja pre same hronike. Zabavno napisane i lako citljive sa porukom i poukom tako da ispadaju vise kao basne ili bajke.Za ljubiteleje serijala vredno posete posto sremeo dosta poznatih likova i dobija neke nove uvide u njihove zivote.
I think the tales, which are loosely based, says the very humble-seeming Alexander in his foreword, on Welsh legends, work best when he is putting flowery words in the mouths of his archetypical characters: bards, enchanters, farmers and fairies, all of whom speak in the grandiose and florid language of ancient embellished oral traditions.
The morals in these tales are very simple and obvious, but I suppose that's really how it should be, and there's a little intrigue in seeing what Alexander does to get us there.I read a few of the Prydain books when I was in elementary school.
“And, at the last, the book taught him that while nothing was certain, all was possible.”  This is a collection of short stories that take place before the actual Chronicles of Prydain which delve a bit deeper into the origins of some of the characters and items.This one is very difficult for me to rate. I am torn between rating it based on my enjoyment or based on its quality for what it is; these short stories read very much like fables. Tone and content don't match up that well with the orig
This is a collection of short stories that take place before the actual Chronicles of Prydain which delve a bit deeper into the origins of some of the characters and items.This one is very difficult for me to rate.
I am torn between rating it based on my enjoyment or based on its quality for what it is; these short stories read very much like fables.
It almost feels like the tales that would have been passed down among the people of Prydain itself!
In general, I think this book does well at being what it is.
Quick read for an adult, but fun none-the-less. I loved the Chronicles of Prydain and this filled in some of the gaps. In the vein of Aesop's Tales or traditional fairy tales, these stories instruct you against pride, greed, and anger. A person is never too old to hear stories like that.
I read Lloyd Alexander’s chronicles of Prydain as a boy and love them to this day.
How I failed to read this book of short stories set in the same universe is blowing my damn mind.
Opening this book made me feel like I was twelve again and discovering Prydain for the first time.
“These pages told not only of death, but of birth as well; how the earth turns in its own time and in its own way gives back what is given to it; how things lost may be found again; and how one day ends for another to begin.”
These stories add a lot of backstory about the world of Prydain. It was interesting to learn how Fflewddur got his magical harp and how Coll rescued Hen Wen from Arawn. Like the main series, the stories are filled with wisdom, sadness, and humor. If you love the series as much as I do, you will enjoy these short story collection.
A series of short stories set in the Prydain world. Simple and sweet, these are more of a combination of the old fairy tales, and those fables with a simple moral at the end. We get a better sense of some of our favorite back characters from the series, Kaw, Dalben, even Col. each story is simple and sweet, though like the rest of the book series some of them have a little bit of that scary edge. For those who have read the rest of the books and want a little more.
The Foundling I liked this short story. It was interesting seeing Dallben as a youth, but the Book of Three aged him in his reading. Knowledge is a heavy burden even while we deeply value it. I loved that there was still hope at the end of it. The Stone This was really cute. I liked how Maurice went from complaining about his circumstance to savoring every moment. Such a nice lesson for life. The True Enchanter This story was far more romantic than the others, and it showed simply that inborn g
This story was far more romantic than the others, and it showed simply that inborn gifts are not necessarily the best or most powerful.
Their personalities are very similar though I think that Kaw is less quick to shun others' abilities or help.This story was very archetypal, but it was still a pleasant one.
However, I really liked the end when, despite the destruction of the harp, the bard still had the best of the Death Lord.
It was really interesting to learn the truth of it all.Too bad he didn't really get a chance to truly speak with Hen Wen before the wisdom he'd consumed wore away.
It contains six short stories that give background information to the world of Prydain and its beloved characters.The Foundling tells the story of Dallben’s youth and how he came to possess the Book of Three and his steady wisdom.The Stone features one of my favorite characters, Doli of the Fair Folk.
On the other hand: It doesn't have a branching narrative - which is fine for some people, but something I personally prefer - and many of the stories are basically longer re-telling of tales mentioned in bi-sentences, which ended up feeling like padding and less alive than when they were told in the main books.
In conclusion I only recommend this book to hardcore Prydain fans and not too people like myself who only has a little interest in the series.
So if you love the series, enjoy the tales of Prydain, just make sure you read the other books first, as there is one huge spoiler in one of the stories.

Instead, Alexander wisely chose to go back before "The Book of Three" and expand the stories of most of the secondary characters, providing a wide range of tales, full of the epic boldness, the heartfelt tragedy and the relieving humour of the original pentalogy.
Whether retelling the origins of the wise enchanter Dallben or how the sword Dyrnwyn came to be at the base of Spiral Castle, stories of romance and humour takes us back to the youth of Eilonwy's parents or the early adventures of honest king and would-be bard Fflewddur Fflam.
I'm so glad I re-read this anthology! Lloyd Alexander tells each of the eight stories beautifully, and it was great to see some of my favorite characters from Prydain again. But I think this collection could be enjoyable even for people who haven't read the Chronicles of Prydain, because the stories and characters are just so wonderful! And after re-reading The Foundling I find myself wanting to re-read the Chronicles of Prydain again! The only way Lloyd Alexander could have improved this book is by adding more stories.
A re-read of a book I first read in my twenties.
I enjoyed it as much this time as the first, and in between I've read these charming short stories to my children.
Fantasy stories told in a folk-tale style, they are full of lovely concepts like the value of wisdom, kindness, and courage, the evils of bullying and abuse of power, but in a rich, involving, utterly non-preachy way.These are background tales to the larger Prydain series, and people who have read that series will recognize names here, but it is not necessary to read the one to appreciate the other.Lovely books.
This is a book of short stories about Prydain and most of them focus on the backstory of various people and events featured in The Chronicles of Prydain. This book is very short. I was not terribly impressed with these stories. They did not seem to bring much of anything new to the table and they felt cold or impersonal. I'm a super fan of The Chronicles of Prydain but in hindsight I probably would have passed on this book.
If you read and loved the Prydain Chronicles, then you will enjoy reading this collection of short stories about some characters' beginnings. I liked Coll's story best, but he is one of my favorites in the series. I also loved this description, "Fflewddur Fflam ruled a kingdom so small he could almost stride across it between midday and high noon." There were many moments like this in the reading that just made me smile.
This is a 60 minute book of short stories to fill in the back story on most of the crew and a few on ancient Prydain lore. A little too brief for my liking. No sooner would the story start and it would be over, barely anything having been imparted. It's probably for the best that Prydain ended there.
This is only OK. I haven't read the The Black Cauldron series this is based on in years, but I remember loving it. I'll have to read it again and see if it has aged well. This book of little prequel stories hasn't. And this book would take away much of the mystery of the original series, so don't read it first.
Found this book in the bargain bin - I didn't even know it existed. Couldn't pass up this ticket back to the land of Prydain, re-visited this time in folktale-esque short-fiction form rather than fantasy epic. Most enjoyable.
This is a companion book to the Chronicles of Prydain; it has a few short stories related to Prydain, but it's not as interesting as the actual series itself.
Very short stories about characters from The Chronicles of Prydain, a series I'm excited to share with my children someday.
It's just a bunch of undeveloped stores. Only one stood out as adding to the series.
It contains some characters from the main series, such as Fflewder Fflam, a bard who has ever-breaking harpstrings.
Or when a crow denies a turtle a place in the army in defense against a hunter because the crow thinks that he will be useless, and later in the story when the crow seems to be in his final breath, the hunter trips over a rock and falls over a cliff to his death.
The book was great, but I couldn't really relate to any of the characters in the stories, but I have done some of the things and made some of the mistakes the characters did.
Other stories tell of the wandering bard-king Flewddur Flam and how he came into possession of his lie-detecting harp, Coll the farmer and his rescue of the clairvoyant pig Hen Wren from the forces of Arwen, the tragic history behind the powerful sword Dyrwyn, and the plucky adventures of Kadwyr the rascal crow, ancestor to Kaw. All these stories build upon the world we discovered in the series proper, give us new facets to beloved characters, and reveal new aspects of their backstories.
This set of short stories serves as either a prequel to the Prydain Chronicles series that is one of the best in children's literature or as a diverting set of fables for readers who have never read the original series.
And like the original books, these stories are fast-paced and can be read quickly by children and adults alike.For fans of the Chronicles, these stories are a must-read because they're Prydain, but I found them disappointing.
For new readers, these stories are good, but for fans of the Chronicles, these characters deserved better.Four stars because Lloyd Alexander at less than his best is still at least as good as anyone else out there.
A series of short stories about some old friends (and a few new ones too!), Th Foundling and Other Tales of Prydain will whisk you back into the rich and brilliant world of Prydain.Spoilers ahead.Okay, so I’ve been trying to get my hands on this book for AGES.
This book was only 98 pages long and I was expecting a 300-page book with tons of stories and drawings about the world of Prydain.
Regardless, the stories I read were wonderful as expected.My favourite was probably The Foundling which is about Dallben’s upbringing.
Despite being really short, I still love Prydain and its stories.
I wished I knew about this during my post-reading Prydain blues.
Oh well, I know about it now and I am happy to have read this.
One doesn't need to read The Chronicles of Prydain first to understand and appreciate these short stories.
They are similar to fables and make for a worthwhile reading reflective of basic morals that are easily forgotten or ignored.
Those who have read and enjoyed the Prydain books will feel reacquainted with old friends.
Those who are entering the world for the first time will hopefully enjoy these short stories and want to explore even further with the other books.
This is a colorful land with even more colorful characters and he adds to the world-building with this set of short stories."The Foundling" is easily the strongest standalone tale of the lot, with "The Rascal Crow" and "The Sword" as solid honorable mentions.
In terms of content, if you are a fan of the series this is still good reading.
Even though this collection is chronologically slated as a prequel series, I would still recommend reading it after the main story line; best to go by publication order here.
I never read this book of short tales set in the fantasy realm of Prydain when I was a child; indeed, I did not even know these stories existed until fairly recently.
They are really great little stories, well told, which is as I had expected.
After the five novels set in Prydain, the short story format seems almost odd, though I think it is an ideal format for exploring more of a setting like this - I do something similar myself with my "Tales from Midhgardhur" series, which is very different from my Midhgardhur novels (only one of which has been published at this writing).
After finishing the five-part series, The Chronicles of Prydain, and still thirsting for a little more, this book looked prime to whet my appetite.
Sadly, though it is good, it is not of the same substance as the other books.
It is a series of tales or short stories with moral lessons attached, that is designed to delve into a little of the pre-chronicled history of Prydain.
It’s a quick and easy read and has its benefits, but wasn’t up to the, in my opinion, lofty standards of the series.
Good not great, but read it for yourself and you decide.
