https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35879889-christy
Beautiful, beautiful! I am so glad I read it, and I heartily recommend it to anyone and everyone who wants a deep and wondrous read. Featuring a man calling his wife and son "twitter-witted"....Thanks for reading!
This warm and heartfelt novel is Catherine Marshall's loving tribute to her mother Lenora Woods' journey to Cutter Gap, in the Smoky Mountains of Tennessee, to teach its children shortly after the turn of the century.
It is made all the more special because it is read by Kellie Martin, who starred in the two-hour television adaptation, and the series that followed.It is rare when an audio book is this good.
Filled with love and joy, this is one audio book read by Kellie Martin that you'll savor and enjoy over and over.
Okay - so I have read this book about 10 times, most recently 2008.
It is about a young women who heads to the mountains to become a school teacher and the challenges she faces.
There are two hunky guys she flirts with, too.
This book does have religious tones while Christy questions and figures out what she believes.
I think this book rings so true to me because I read it at an age when I was asking the same type of questions.
I still enjoy the beauty of the story after repeat readings.
This may be my all time favorite book.
For anyone who says that reading fiction is not as edifying and worthwhile as reading a non-fiction book, I say, "Have you read Christy?"I mourn that Catherine Marshall wasn't around in my lifetime, but I feel so utterly blessed that she poured her heart and soul and love into this eternal story!
and it's all nestled effortlessly in a touching, gripping, fascinating, and beautiful story!Each time I read it I'm reminded of the beauty and awesome power of God's love.
I remember and drink in the eternal wisdom in all Miss Alice says and does.
Through her deep emotional involvement in the lives of the Cutter Gap people and the guidance of Miss Alice, the woman who helped start the missions in Cutter Gap and surrounding areas, Christy’s faith becomes truly real to her for the first time in her life.
Her spiritual growth was the most real and genuine such growth I’ve ever come across in fiction.Besides Christy, my favorite character was Miss Alice, the Quaker woman who helps run three missions scattered over the area.
The mountain people tend to see God as vengeful and His favor as fickle, and that’s what Miss Alice sets out to change.
(One time in particular, I was listening while eating breakfast to the part where one character gets double pneumonia and...ugh...I wish I hadn't.) There was only one doctor for the entire community, though the people from the mission tried to help as much as they could, and some descriptions of illness and one surgery, which I'll cover in further detail in the content section of this review, while not graphic to an extreme, could be more than some people want to read, especially as nearly the entire last third of the book centers around an epidemic of typhoid in the community, and that is one nasty disease that, sadly, did cause a number of deaths, thus adding to the depressing depressingness.
This was the book that spawned adult reading for me.
My mom read it aloud on a car trip to the Smokey Mountains.
The characters are engaging and could walk off the page.
Truly the first experience I had with characters that i would recognize if they walked into the room.Fifteen years later, this book remains the only book I've ever read that still holds all it's charm and wonder with each reread.
I make a piont to reread it at least every two years.
Cutter Gap and it's people are very much alive in Catherine Marshall's writing.
Is this the end? Why isn't there more! :'( This was my first time reading Christy by Catherine Marshall ... and I loved it! Why didn't I read it sooner?? My only complaint is that the book ended. ;)More thoughts to come, potentially.Now, onto Julie!
I absolutely loved the descriptions of the Smoky Mt. area and the people.
The school children were a delight to read about.
I can't even begin to understand how she handled 70+- kids in a one-room school.
It's no surprise people fell in love with Christy.
I love reading (this may sound twisted) of people's flaws and how they grow and sometimes overcome them, but more often just come to understand them and gain a different perspective.
i.e. her sensitive nose: that never really went away, but she was able to not be as bothered by it because of her new perspective and feelings towards the people and the situation.
It was enchanting to read while being the same age as Christy (19).
Cutter Gap has so many quirks and such personality it's hard not to like it among all the backward thinking and poverty.
I enjoyed Christy's journey of faith as it was very blunt and realistic--she didn't shy away from the difficult, ugly, or the lovely.
I loved how everyone was in a different place in their faith and approach to life, but they all had to come together so many times, often just to survive.
It gave me lots to think about and I was smiling by the end.
What a delight to reread this favorite book from my adolescence as we celebrate its 50th anniversary!When I first read this book as a young teenager, I fell in love with the characters, the setting, and the call to be a teacher.
This time though, I bring a new set of life experiences and heartbreaks and joys to the table and in that way the story came alive in a whole new way for me.
It’s about trusting God for every step on a journey that literally can be uphill in the snow both ways.
There are two main men in this book, the young Pastor, David and Dr. Neil MacNeil a self-proclaimed atheist.
Both of these men offer her answers to her questions and in her own way she accepts and rejects these answers forming her own opinions in the book.
Among these questions is discovering for herself what constitutes love and what relationships look like both in the mountain culture and beyond.
I feel that every young girl should read this if only to know the beauty that comes from being immersed in other cultures and the self-discovery that follows.
Cleanliness: Towards the end of Chapter 7 (pg 102), it mentions that a “little girl was beaten over and over by her mother’s lover, …brutally raped” and as a result, died the next day.
Chapter 33 is a woman explaining about how a man who came into her Quaker community seduced and raped her.
A few pages into Chapter 35 (pg 396), a doctor comments on the fact that he’s amazed that a grown woman doesn’t know anything about the facts of life/sex, and again references it on pg 401.
I wondered if this book would hold up to how much I loved it as a fifteen to twenty-two-year-old when I was frequently rereading it.
This is one of those rare books that seems to grow with you and always have new things to discover.The heart of this book is about God's love for us and how it is reflected in his people.
With realistic characters with different motivations and approaches, you can see so many different aspects.
They are the reason that this is a powerful book.I'll be rereading this book.
It was like seeing a new world through a subtle sociological perspective, and I appreciated the novel all the more for this almost academic approach.Second, Christy's spiritual journey really resonated with me.
While before, I thought that Christy and her relationships provided the heart of the story, this time, I recognized that it was her inner coming-of-age that really makes this book shine.And third, I recognized with renewed respect the wonderful literary ability of Ms. Marshall.
I imagine I will read this book dozens times over in my coming years, and I imagine I will be just as touched with each new reading.
Living among these rough, mountain folks, seeing them suffer in their stubborn ways, and witnessing the death of those she comes to love, she begins to question her faith and doubt the existence of a God who could allow this evil to happen.
Her faith is tested to the limit, and she must figure out for herself what truth is--simply accepting the word of others without knowing it for herself is not enough to sustain her.
Marshall's writing is profound and applicable to people's lives today.
Because all people come to place where they question reality.
This book will make you question reality.
This is such a delightful book. My mom, sister and I used to love watching historicals together when we were younger, and I remember watching this when it was made into a miniseries. The book is even better, giving a great glimpse of the poverty and lack of opportunity in Appalachia back in the early 1900's when young Christy Huddleston goes into the Smoky Mountains to become a schoolteacher. Such memorable characters and just a great all-around read. 4.5/5 stars.
I vaguely remember watching some of the TV series when I was a kid, but that's all I had to go on before jumping into this story.Oy, I have thoughts about this book.What I Liked: I listened to this book on audio, and I honestly think that is the way to go.
It's ironic to me, because at one point the mountain people are described as believing they have to live a certain way to avoid God's wrath, which is a salvation by works belief - but the "missionary" characters in this book seem to be living by the same philosophy, just a different perspective.
It's a classic read from both "eyes" of the era it was written and also the place/time that encompasses the copy of Christy's tale of coming to the mountains to be teacher.It's very long- at least 2 books length.
Yet because it embraces so many myriad aspects of Christy's life, schoolhouse and entire mixes of associations in Cutter Gap locale- it still delights.Because I did not read this when I was young, I was surprised at the reviews which some specify as "romantic".
For me, essentially cored in a peaceful role model, and entirely entertaining to read.I will probably read some of her others now, like A Man Called Peter.
3.5 stars.I liked this story. having seen the tv show first, then read the book once I was old enough, I found it a very accurate, picture of the place and time. Be forewarned, it can come across as depressing, and in my humble opinion, the story line was better in the tv series. There was a bit of graphic material and depressing things in this movie as well as one or two scenes that were a bit out of place and inappropriate. recommended for 16+ because of mature content.
Christy Huddleston is a young teacher who leaves the comfort of her Asheville, NC home to minister to and teach the children of a cove set deep within Appalachia.
It also shows the many facets of deep mountain life of the time - from feuding and bootlegging to traditions and culture carried over many generations back from the Highlands of Scotland!
But it is also a real glimpse into life of this time and place as it was loosely based on Catherine Marshall's mother's experience as a young teacher.
I am not normally a fan of evangelical novels, but "Christy" is an exception.
Christy struggles to understand her pupils, their insular mountain culture, and ultimately her own faith and what it means to her.
Unlike many evangelical novels, faith is not the character's sole concern: Christy spends plenty of time worrying about how to get new books for her students, how to afford that beautiful black hat on a teacher's salary, and how to choose between the handsome minister and the gruff Scottish doctor who both appear to be courting her.
Christy is a masterpiece in which lyrical writing, vivid setting, and complex characters come together in a beautifully fascinating and compelling story that’s worth reading again and again – just as relevant today as when it was first written.
But now, reading it again through the lens of some 50 years of life experiences, this story resonates even more.It was Christy that instilled in me a love for the mountains and people of Appalachia, which isn’t surprising because I’m the granddaughter of north Georgia mountain families.
Christy is a story of God’s love for a people isolated from the rest of the world.
This is a lovely story. It's a classic. I'm glad I took the time to read it. Christy contemplates life, God and what she is meant to do with her life. She spends a lot of time reflecting these things. I enjoyed the relationships and the adventures.
I did read the whole thing, but when I was getting to the end I was starting to think, "Is this worth the time I have spent on it?" It was overall an uplifting story.
Probably my favorite aspect was the peek into life in a small Tennessee Mountain town at the turn of last century.
I did like the ending.That said, there was much that I disliked about this book.
It was almost like they were included to make the story interesting, since after all, this was the 70s, and we can talk about whatever we want.
Interestingly, I did not like the ending of this book as a teen, but I found it very moving as an adult. It reminds me of the ending of Montgomery's Rilla of Ingleside. Not very many authors risk stopping a story on the up side of a climax, but Marshall employs the technique beautifully here. She left me with an appetite for more rather than filling my tummy with a glut of resolutions, and I'm old enough now to realize that the former is sometimes much more satisfying than the latter. Here's to maturity!
What I might love more than anything is that Marshall gives dignity to her characters.
Marshall certainly doesn't romanticize the lives of these mountain people in 1912, and she definitely helps you understand that you ought to be thankful for the time in which you are living.
But, a return to nature, coming-of-age questioning on philosophies of life, learning how to sacrifice for others, how to handle and walk with others through pain, death, and mourning, first loves and what is real love and what is not, a return to the Maker of all this beauty, quiet, peace, heaven, and so much more is woven into this amazing biographical novel.
I'm thankful for the time that Catherine Marshall spent listening to her mother's stories and writing them all down.
I was an avid reader as a child and still remember picking up my aunt's copy of Christy on her bookshelf.
I never could get the girls interested in any of Grandma's old books, but when an opportunity to review and promote Christy for the 50th anniversary came open I jumped.
So that means I get to read the book out loud to my daughters.
I caught my reluctant reader picking it up and reading ahead (until she got scared off by some of the old words, and big words).
I absolutely loved this book! The romance aspect of it was magnificently done, although the exciting, albeit large, book ended way to soon. David and Dr. McNeil were great, but also horrible. For older readers, this is perfectly fine, (in my opinion) but for younger readers, the description of sexual affairs is probably not appropriate. It certainly didn't take away anything for me, though.
The dynamic cast of characters and heart-wrenching circumstances, the whole book pushing towards the light.
Every terrible circumstance, every broken character, every story told points more and more to God. I would give it more stars if I could.I expected to like Christy, but I didn't expect to love it as much as I did.
I could relate to her feelings and her relationship with God. This book had some very hard stuff on it.
But I have never read a book that so completely, wholely pointed to Christ.
But I would recommend over 16 it to anyone looking for an amazingly powerful story.
