https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/717128.The_Children_of_Odin
Neither my favorite version of Norse Mythology nor my favorite of Colum's books, but a decent introduction to the major tropes and stories of the mythos for readers with slight familiarity with the topic (for absolute beginners the groundwork may be inadequate).
This may be due to an attempt to incorporate more than one strand of legend, as the versions differ somewhat regionally.
The text is somewhat coy about sexual matters -- lovers spend several days alone "talking" -- but amusingly Willy Pogany's illustrations are slightly less so, revealing the occasional gratuitous bare breast.
Pogany's illustrations look like this:Heimdall telling stories to Hnoss
Formative first book of Norse mythologyThe edition shown is by the same publisher as my copy, but it was published in 1962. My copy has my mother's name in the cover, with the date "Sept. 1930," when she was ten years old. Published 1920, reissued 1929. Illustrated by Willy PoganyAugust 19, 2017: Now showing the 1920 edition that I have. I didn't realize I'd added this one; was looking at this book since I just completed Neil Gaiman's recent one on the subject.
الكتاب جداً ممتع، ومدخل مسلي لأساطير شعب الفايكنق والساكسون.لوكي، ثور، فالهالا العظيمة: حرب نهاية العالم. كلها تأتي بشكل متسلسل وممتع للقارئ العادي: أظنها قصدت للناشئة. لكن هذا مايمنع المتعة والفائدة "المرتبه" لمعرفة الآلهة وتراتيبها والأساطير المرتبطة بها. وبالتالي خريطة مبدئية ومدخل ممتاز ومرتب للواحد حتى يتعمق بأساطير الساكسون ~~ هذا موقع عربي يشرح بعض الآلهة : ) http://www.schoolarabia.net/history/g...
Some things I jotted down as interesting:I found Loki's role as the god of mischief turned evil fascinating.
Super thought-provoking.I loved the parallels I caught between the myths and stories we tell today; for example, the story of Brynhild and the similarity of fairy tales like Sleeping Beauty and Snow White (at least, until you get to the tragic Romeo and Juliet part).
For example, when Odin and Frigga wager on who is more kingly, and you can see the competition between wisdom and strength taking place in the myth.
On a whim, we stopped in and learned all about the Gotland, Icelandic, Arland, and other varieties of Scandinavian horses.
This reminded me of the Norse mythological poems that we read in German class in high school.
It is a selected series of stories that sort of weave the major mythological poems together ending in the Ragnorak (the war between the giants and the gods of Asgard).
If you've read about the Greek and Roman gods, and liked learning about them, I would recommend jumping into Norse mythology.
They had/have truly interesting gods!
Simplified watered down versions of stories from the Eddas. This book seems to be aimed at a late elementary or jr. high school age reader. For that target audience this is a great introduction and would probably be the best thing you could buy if you were trying to picque a young persons interest in the Norse "Myths". If your an adult there are several other books on this subject that I would recomend over this one though.
Fate (with a capital 'F') is as much an actor in these stories as any of the characters, and yet each of the Gods and people involved are shown ways to avoid their grim fates, are frequently told point blank what will befall them if they choose one action over another.
But that's really what makes these stories so moving and sympathetic in the end--they resonate so frequently with the very human shortsightedness and/or romantic weaknesses which lead even the most powerful and wise of beings to bring about their own downfalls.
პოეტური "უფროსი ედას" შემდეგ, პროზაულად დაწერილი ოდინის ამბებიც მშვენიერი იყო.თარგმანიც კარგია და ის ხარვეზები რაც გამოცემას თან ახლავს, საერთოდ უმნიშვნელო მგონია, რადგან ამ გამომცემლობას ძალიან ბევრი საინტერესო ჩანაფიქრი აქვს როგორც ვიცი ეზოთერული ლიტერატურის თარგმნის ამბავში. ასე რო, წარმატებები.წიგნის წაკითხვის შემდეგ, შეგიძლიათ მთარგმნელის მიერ დაწერილი ძალიან საინტერესო ესსეც წაიკითხოთ, "ზიგურდის ინიციაცია": http://bit.ly/2rMLJOt
This is a great read. Being a Skandanavian I was especially interested in reading this book. This is nortic mythology at it's best. I recommend you all read it and enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
Though a bit bowdlerized (as mentioned in the introduction) Colum’s retellings are lucid laced through with a poetic northern spirit. Definitely more evocative than Lancelyn-Green.
It fit those criteria, but little else.This book is in serious need of a character list, or a family tree, or something.
I'd really liked to have seen ten or twenty pages dedicated to certain characters, either in the front of back.
With the exception of the really big hitters (Odin, Thor, Loki), some of the names were kind of confusing (Frey, Freya, Frigg) or hard to pronounce (Svartalfheimr, Skidbladnir, Muspellsheimr) though, admittedly, these are hardly the author's fault.Every story is short and easily digestible, and gives you a good idea of what's going on in the Norse Pantheon.
-Even if you forget what a certain word is, the writer reminds you if it's a spear, a horse, a place, or anything else when it is mentioned again.-Fantastic list of suggested reading at the end.-I can see myself rereading it, since it's short and it's never boring.What I didn't like:-This is so edited to be accessible to children as well, that I can't help but wonder if some events were more disturbing than they are portrayed (Freya and the dwarves, for instance), or as innocent as they seemed to be (Odin talking with Gunnlöd) -Some things are left untold, such as Loki's fate, or what did happen to the gods after the final battle.
I didn't have high expectations, since the last book of myths/religious stories were so horrendous.
Not sure if this latter aspect is actually a good or bad thing.
I especially liked the ending, albeit a bit brief compared to the action it contained, and how it was so final, skipping the feel-good, pastures of daisies, riding off into the sunset kind of crap that modern stories feel obligated to put in just so they don't make anyone feel an emotion because they might do something crappy and then a lawyer would sue poor Padriac Colum and the book would be banned from all proper establishments.
The author ties the myths together so that they flow a lot better than your average compilation of random stories (which is my general impression of most mythology books).The stories appear to have been selected to minimize contradiction.
(As with any mythology, in Norse mythology there are many authors, resulting in inevitable confusion as they disagree over insignificant details like the names of the main characters.) They are also (well) chosen to present a chronological picture of the Norse gods and how they change.
I was intrigued to learn that Norse gods, unlike those of many other mythologies (Greek, for example) actually change.
I talked our school district into ordering this book for my Mythology class.
We spend the second quarter of the semester class studying Norse mythology.
This book is very accessible, even to the students who are dumped into the elective class just because there's nowhere else to put them.
Sure, the names throw the kids, but otherwise my high schoolers have no trouble with it.They definitely are relieved to read this after nine weeks with Edith Hamilton's dry old Mythology book about the Greco-Roman gods!I highly recommend this book as a classroom text, or as just a very good primer on Norse mythology.
Delightful. Colum is a fine storyteller, using diction that provides just the right archaic, “northern” flavor. The myths included are fairly comprehensive and detailed. Highly recommended for homeschoolers; provides the best possible subject matter for progymnasmata writing exercises. The line drawings are beautiful. I wrote this review based on the ebook version (epub with illustrations) available free at project Gutenberg.
Read this book to your children. Or find somebody reading it out loud on youtube and leave it on while you work. It's good for your kids. It'll teach 'em about dwarves.Technology has given us the ability to have the experience of an old guy sitting by the campfire telling crazy stories all day without any of the negatives. Yay technology!
The Children of Odin was a summer vacation read and well worth it. This is Padraic Colum's (an author) retelling of Norse myth and it seems much closer to the spirit and feel of the Eddas,et cetera, than Neil Gaiman's. Guess I don't go in for radical updates designed to suit the tastes of modern audiences. Give me epic epics, heroic heros and evil evil doers, Aye!
A great translation and coherent compilation of Norse myths for the average person or child. The myths weave seamlessly from one chapter to the next and present a wonderful overall picture of the Norse pantheon. I wouldn't be surprised if Tolkien read this to his children.
Plot holes! Uhg. But I love ^_^"So then Loki was all like 'hey thor dur ber duuuurr' and then thor was all 'nuh uh!' and thor got bitch slapped." i may be atheist... wait yeah.. that's why im athiest.
I don't have a lot of experience reading mythological books like this, but I really enjoyed the way Colum wrote these. They've got a regal sort of "spaketh" tone to them, but the story isn't hard to follow. An excellent introduction to Norse Mythology.
Colum wrote this version for all ages, so some imagination is required when reading the tales to appreciate the full effect. Still, it's quick and informative. I'll definitely refer to it in the future.
I'll be honest, I only read this because I'm a Loki fan. But it was immensely entertaining, and beautifully written.And yes, there was plenty of Loki in it, so if you're like me, it's a good book to read. ;)
An easy read, and very entertaining.
Loki. I am him, and he is all me.
Wonderful Loki is realy evil
Yet to be reviewed...
Reading Log #7- MythTitle The Children of Odin: The Book of Northern Myths Author: Padraic ColumIllustrator William Pogany Genre: Fantassy, fictionTheme(s): Power, Gods and Goddeses Opening line/sentence Once there was another Sun and another Moon; a different Sun and a different Moon from the ones we see now.
They all have a distinct role in the stories that are very different from one another.Professional Recommendation/Review #1 Judy Silverman (Children's Literature) I read this book for the first time when I was nine years old, and it became the standard by which I judged all books of mythology.
I listened to the Librivox recording (by Elizabeth Klett) of this book during my workouts. Put simply, this is a wonderful summary of Nordic mythology and Colum's telling of it are woven into an almost prose poetry.
3.5*
