https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72657.Pedagogy_of_the_Oppressed
Actually, why just the social workers, let's tattoo it on everyone, why not?
I grew up in Berkeley, where I never learned any actual math, and I have a strong suspicion someone's ideas for the experimental math curriculum were influenced by Freire, sooooo.....
If I'd had a little more banking education as a youth, I might not need to take off my shoes now to balance my checkbook!It's hard to evaluate this book.
That said, it's a little perplexing that a book about popular education should seem so willfully obtuse and difficult.
This book is hard to get through.
Just finished my annual rereading of this book.
Again, teachers in inner-city America, teachers on the plains, teachers in rural America--read or reread this book now.
With attempts to oppress our students inside the classroom with more and more standardized crap, this is more than ever a must-read.My original review: Here is one of those books I think they oughtn't let a teacher in front of a secondary classroom without having read.
Even the most affluent of our students in contemporary public education classrooms are oppressed to some degree.
Freire can be applied to every student...every classroom.
A teacher.
This is one of those books you have to masticate and digest rather than swallow without chewing.
Freire makes a salad of education, dialogue, poverty, consciousness, and liberation.
One of his most outstanding lines of reasoning derives from coming alongside of the poor as the starting point in authentic dialogue paving the way for true education and ultimately liberation of the oppressed.
There are many good thoughts throughout the book.
That is why their generosity is false." Ouch!"Liberating education consists in acts of cognition, not transferrals of information." Santo!"To alienate men from their own decision-making is to change them into objects." Yea Vavey.
If more of us followed Paulo Freire's method of careful action and thought, I doubt we would see the vitriol and ignorance and hate so common in contemporary political discourse.Freire argues that instead of just pouring facts into students' minds - and thus forcing them to view the world as everyone else does - we should form dialogue between teachers and students to facilitate critical thinking.
A final quote about love and how it relates to forming dialogues between educators and students, the oppressors and the oppressed:"Dialogue cannot exist, however, in the absence of a profound love for the world and for people.
I haven't read this text in some time, and although It did affect me when I did, I just worry that 5,000 people on the left have rated this book, and many of them will go into classrooms with the best of intentions only to recreate or reinvent oppression when they just can't understand why their students "don't get it" or "resist the liberation we're trying to give them."I once applied for a job in a program for poor and even homeless people at a very progressive and well known college.
Uneducated as many of the rural poor were (and still are), Freire thought that learning to read and write for them might be linked to actual community needs.
Freire was highly influenced by (Catholic) Liberation Theology on behalf of the world’s neediest, now dismissed by the help of Fox News as any other kind of work for the poor as “class warfare” against the sadly maligned rich, or (shudder) socialism.
to alienate human beings from their own decision-making is to change them into objects.” True learning requires intentionality, investment.*Love: This is the Catholic in Freire, working in tandem with his emphasis on humility and doubt and caring.

The book is eminently quotable and makes it point much better than I ever could, so in the spirit of dialogue (which is an instrument of liberation!), I will allow my own thoughts to dialogue with those of Senhor Freire.The rich and the poor, the haves and the have-nots, the bourgeoisie and the proletariat - the theme of opposition between social classes is not new to sociology, nor is the idea that these vertical relationships result in a lack of opportunity and ultimate dehumanization of those at the bottom of the social ladder.
هذا الكتاب على بساطته من أسس الفكر الثوري الحديث، وقضيته الرئيسة في كسر منظومة القهر وألا يكرر المقهورون صنع نظام القاهرين، وكيف على القادة الثوريين أن يحاوروا الشعب بندية تشاركية لا كتعليم فوقي حتى يشترك في الثورة التي ستحرره من منظومة القهر.
If our aim is, as loving humans, to eradicate homelessness, poverty, racism, classism, and sexism, our revolution must be educative and cultural.
One way that Freire tells us this can be done-- and I mention it here because a lot of people question what practical steps can be taken to begin the revolution-- is by bearing witness.Bearing witness is an action.
The revolution begins with a commitment to bearing witness in our small personal lives-- AND acting on the political scale, the two are not in sequence.It is really hard to bear witness.
A must-read for anyone engaged in education, as well as all those involved in grassroots social change. How does one teach others, particularly those who have been oppressed in our society, without at the same time becoming merely another outside force of domination? How do those who are oppressed escape oppression, without merely joining the ranks of the those currently in power and responsible for the oppression? Freire, one of the first to truly address these questions, handles them capably, with his own real world experimentation informing his answers.
Even more vividly, he points out that members of the oppressor class who:join the oppressed in their struggle for liberation[…] as they cease to be exploiters or indifferent spectators or simply the heirs of exploitation and move to the side of the exploited, they almost always bring with them the marks of their origin: their prejudices… which include a lack of confidence in the people’s ability to think, to want, and to know[…] A real humanist can be identified more by [her] trust in the people, which engages [her] in their struggle, than by a thousand actions in their favour without that trustHe distinguishes humanism from ‘humanitarianism’, the false and self-serving generosity of the oppressor:Pedagogy which begins with the egotistic interests of the oppressors (an egoism cloaked in the false generosity of paternalism) and makes the oppressed the objects of its humanitarianism, itself maintains and embodies oppression.
Beyond what makes for an unpleasant read, many of the ideas in the book are obviously for another time and place (1960's Brazil) and presenting an idealogy that has not only failed miserably in every attempt but has actually seen some of the most oppressive regimes in history (Soviet Union, Khmer Rouge, North Korea, Maoist China and more).
We can see the failure of this mode of education in our own American system where sadly teaching critical thinking is something reserved for college level courses.
Author Paulo Freire a Brazilian educator and philosopher wrote this book in 1968.
His time was a time of opposing political forces, industrial revolution, beginning of cold-war and post-colonialism and military coups in South America.
Developing his philosophy, he had in mind the future of the uneducated many that wanted freedom but lacked knowledge and know-how.
Freedom can only be achieved through knowledge.
In this aspect, knowledge (not information) has to be co-created by the learner, therefore the learner cannot be a bank for input but rather has to be a part of the knowledge itself.For its time and still today it is one of the masterpieces of philosophy of education.
I've seen quotes from this that burned with fierce fire into my brain (ex: "Any situation in which some individuals prevent others from engaging in the process of inquiry is one of violence. The means used are not important; to alienate human beings from their own decision-making is to change them into objects"), so hopefully someday I'll read the whole thing.
Complete crap.A more obtuse and overly-abstract espousing of silly theories resulting in useless do-gooderism could hardly be possible.If Freire said he did ABC actions to free people through education and measured XYZ results in specific improvements in quality of life, then he might have won respect despite his pernicious theory.
Avoid anyone who thinks it is worth reading.
It is not.What IS worth reading is the writer who goes to the root of this dangerous evil crap, which is Karl Marx's teacher, GF Hegel.
تحاملت على نفسي لكي أكمله، التنظير في الكتاب يفوق الوصف مع فقر شديد في اﻷمثلة الموضحة، باﻹضافة إلى ا
Of all my course in Uni, the one that included this as a text was the most raw & memorable: "Native Canadian World Views" So how do I review this book when it's tied so closely to the emotional impact of that uni course?
Focusing only on this book as an object of paper & ink: It's dense, powerful, moving theory crammed into about 100 pages.
I highly recommend reading this, dense or not it's a powerful book that touches on colonialism and perhaps trying to find a way to reverse the effects of it.
With so many groups of people all over the world who've felt the generational impacts of colonialism, it's a powerful one to read for understanding the today.
It's hard to review a book like this because it's a game-changing book whose ideas have seeped into everything. I guess I will say that it was much more dense and academic than I remember it being.
Also in the introduction, Macedo discusses how students in some parts of the world risk punishment and imprisonment to read Pedagogy of the Oppressed, while in most United States undergraduate and graduate programs, it is omitted.
Personally, this book also provided a good answer to a question I’ve been asking teachers: why don’t we have national standards in education?
I came away from reading this book feeling uplifted and excited about the possibilities of practicing freedom as a teacher; at the same time, I’m daunted by some of the systemic obstacles that I will face.
On the hegelian/academic front, it makes sense that dialectics would make an appearance in the book, its just kind of ironic that a book on teaching the downtrodden and poor is so overladdened with philosphical terms that just make you glaze over and would be beyond the means of someone who was not educated to university level.
Only the optimistic heydays of the left could possibly talk up Castro and Guevara as being deeply implanted in the dialogue of the masses without drawing the worse kind of mockery.
It was obvious in such discussions whether the students had read about the topic, whether they were interested, and what they thought.
Moreover, I greatly appreciated Freire's points about 'problem-posing' education, which doesn't treat social issues as resolved.
In short, I found Freire's angle on education inspiring, which is helpful as I'd been feeling quite jaded about academic teaching.More importantly, though, Freire's theories around oppression and resistance have a lot of resonance in 2017.
Both in education and in culture more generally, I think there is a confusion between dialogue and debate.
I come back to it regularly to remind myself that the topical fads in pedagogy (such as the claims made for student centred active learning, so hip in British HE in the late 2000s and early 2010s) are not as new as many of their protagonists claim.
In many cases thay are a politically diluted version of a more deep seated radical pedagogy that without those radical politics lose their transformative potential and keep education as a training ground for capitalism's leaders and drones.
الكتاب من الكتب التأسيسية في نظرية التعليم النقدي أو التربية النقدية. ويعد الكاتب من مؤسسي هذه النظرية وأبرز منظريها.ينقد الكاتب فكرة التعليم التقليدي وأسماه "البنكي" الذي يحوّل الطالب لمتلقي والمعلم لمالك للمعرفة. ويدعو لتعزيز الاستقلالية لدى المتعلم، واحترام ما لديه من معرفة. وأن تقوم عملية التعليم على المنهج الحواري بين المتعلم والمعلم.
I don't get this book. I found it to be an overacademic hard to read book about making education less academic and more accessible.
عرفت الكتاب من برنامج "بره الصندوق" للبمشهندس ايمن عبد الرحيم اخترت ابدأ فيه عشان صغير ..
بس اللي اتفاجئت به انه علي الرغم من صغر حجمه الا انه اخد وقت كتير في قرائته ..
صفات كتيرة من المقهورين انطبقت عليا نموذج التعليم البنكي : هو ده التعليم اللي اتعلمته من اول ما كنت صغيرة لحد لما اتخرجت كان في سؤال بيدور في عقلي طول ما انا بقرأ الكتاب : هو انا ازاي في يوم لو خلفت هعلم اولادي ؟ انا جزء من سيكولوجيتي بقي متطبع بطباع المقهورين ..
لا حول و لا قوة الا بالله و انا لله و انا اليه راجعون :Dبس نهاية الكتاب ادتني امل لانها قدمت حلول شكرا م.
ايمن علي التوصية دي :)
Freire's theory of reflective action as way to resist oppression (with education as the primary vehicle) is the theory that most influences my teaching.If you are a teacher or interested in the philosophy of education.
Read.
Book."Human existence cannot be silent, nor can it be nourished by false words, but only by true words, with which men and women transform the world.
To exist, humanely, is to name the world, to change it.
Once named, the world in its turn reappears to the namers as a problem and requires of them a new naming.
Human beings are not built in silence, but in word, in work, in action-reflection."
فرێری زۆر سەرنج ئەدات بە ئەم بابەتە و لەم کتێبەیدا بۆچوونەکانی سەبارەت بە شێوەی گەڕاندنەوەی مرۆڤایەتی و گەیشتن بە ڕزگاری شی دەکاتەوەنووسەر لەم بڕوایەدایە کە لە مرۆڤ خستن شتێکە لەو کەسانەدا بە دی دەکرێ کە لە مرۆڤبوون داماڵراون و دیسان لە ئەوانش کە خەڵکیان لە مرۆڤ بوون خستوە، واتە هەر چۆن چەوساوەکان بە دەستی چەوسێنەران لە مرۆڤبوون بێبەریی دەبن، چەوسێنەران خۆشیان لە مرۆڤ بوون دەکەون.
بڕوای بەوەیە کە چەوساوەکان ئەو هێز و توانایانە هەیە کە چەوسێنەرەکانیان بگۆڕن بۆ بوونەوەرگەلێک کە هەست بە مرۆڤ بوون بکەن و لە مرۆڤایەتی تێ بگەن....درێژەی ئەم بابەتە لە ماڵپەڕی شانۆڤان بخوێنەوە:https://goo.gl/BYmgKn
As we might expect, Freire was a Marxist interested in decolonialism and the use of education to further libratory movements, but he seems far from dogmatic.
While class remains an important factor in understanding oppression, Freire seems to be sensitive to other hierarchies, and does not make class the ultimate determinative for every aspect of human life.
Marcedo seems determined to rescue Freire for Marxism and over-states the importance of Marx and revolution to this work.
If this edition had been assigned to me in college, I’d never have gotten past this execrable and far too long prefatory matter to discover the value of the actual text behind it.
I read this book in Portuguese after my friend read it as part of her reserach for her masters in English. She had described her problem with "the ontological vocation to be more fully human" as it is phrased in her translation. This translation, I believe, is less literal than it needs to be, and it emphasizes a particular humanist project that would postition the opressed as not having a constituent humanness. The Portugeuse would have it "sua ontologica vocacao de Ser Mais" which I would tran
The Portugeuse would have it "sua ontológica vocação de Ser Mais" which I would translate as "their ontological vocation to Be More." While Ser Mais in Portuguese is a bit more obvious of a play on Ser Humano, to me it suggests that the production of excess is part of being a human subject, not that the opressed are working just for a base-line humanity.
That you cannot ascribe them a state of stupidity or as being dumb, using the fact that some of their subjective excess as strange or unknown to you as evidence that they aren't fully human.My review of the book as a whole:A bit general in it's argument, the book sometimes frustratingly posits opression as a binary of opressor/opressed.
