https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/830364.Profiles_in_Courage
However, one of the points made by Kennedy, represented and illustrated on virtually every page, is that American politics have always been ugly.
The exception, Kennedy describes, is when political leaders take a stand of conscience, often sacrificing political careers and comfortable positions of power to represent an ideal; a great idea that is too frequently politically unpopular.Organized into brief essays on a particular senator and in a pivotal time and place, Kennedy sheds light on political leaders, many of whom have been forgotten by history, who took a stand and demonstrated courage and zeal for principle over more narrow minded and temporal concerns.*Vituperative.
Profiles of CourageAmericans who have made their country's policy their national banner.
Illustrious figures from the home country of Kennedy, Ireland and others in his presidential campaign, such as John McCain, are mentioned.
A book for young Americans (but not only) today remember with some nostalgia their ancestors, but also for the politicians of our day learn from the mistakes they commit each day.a word dedicated to the victims of the american hurricanes that fall over the american territory.
I'm not so well dedicated to religious causes, but I pray for them all the entire time.
Kennedy, Profiles in Courage It is now almost tradition that presidential candidates will publish a book prior to campaigning for the highest elected office.
Profiles in Courage, however, was one of the earliest and most successful of these campaign books.
While Kennedy largely wrote the beginning and the end of the book, the profiles of the senators profiled in this book were largely written by Ted Sorenson.The book also won the Pulitzer Prize, but when viewed objectively is best seen as more hype than history.
It certainly was brilliant in providing more light and more prestige on this young Senator from Massachusetts, but it is hard to also take the book completely serious as history.
I read this shortly after JFK died.
And their choices matter.I didn't know then that it was ghost-written for him by one of his speech writers, but I was immediately aware that the book was written from "an angle", even though I didn't know what that angle was.
It was my introduction to the intellectual basis of partisan politics.
Prior to reading Profiles all my experience with politics had been names, labels and slogans.
So, in a manner of speaking, Profiles in Courage was a "coming of age" book for me.
Think about it, both describe making choices and those choices mattering.
"Once upon a time --" yeah, when I look at the cover of Profiles in Courage now, I start thinking about fairy tales.
Once upon a time, "in the room where it happens" (Lin-Manuel Miranda, Hamilton), there were officeholders who made "yugely" courageous choices -- John Quincy Adams, Daniel Webster, Edmund G.
Would that a majority of elected officials had the courage of the US Senators written about by then Senator John F.
. [W]e will get the kind of political leadership, be it good or bad, that we demand and deserve" (Kennedy 209).Let's move JFK's gift to us from the fairy-tale shelf back to the nonfiction/history/biography shelf, where it belongs.
Profiles in Courage is a focused review of eight Senators in US history, chronicling instances where that man defied the pressures of various forces - his party, his state legislature, his President, but above all his constituents the American people - in a moment of national crisis, enduring insults from all sides in the conviction that the fevers of the moment would eventually pass and their lonely stands would be vindicated by history.
As he explained, "While in Washington, I received from Florida almost daily instructions and requests by letter and telephone – books to send, memoranda to draft, sources to check, materials to assemble, and Dictaphone drafts or revisions of early chapters." So Kennedy did oversee the production, but much of the writing isn't his.Herbert Parmet, a historian who wrote a book on Kennedy, analyzing Profiles in Courage does believe Kennedy largely wrote the opening and closing thematic chapters, and those are I think the parts of the book of enduring historical interest given his presidency.
Ross, who cast the deciding vote not to impeach President Andrew Johnson, the most memorable in the book.
The perfect book for a poli sci junkie like myself, especially one who's always admired John F Kennedy. Although President Kennedy takes a very small role in the book, the idea that he explores of courage in the life of politics is fascinating. Especially during a time when politicians have taken on such a tarnished image, a brief insight into a few of their lives gives an incredible understanding of the difficulty involved in the positions they hold. I would definitely recommend this book to anyone interested in US history and/or political science - a fascinating read!
I don't think I could have read this book in high school and had any sense of timing for most of the senators profiled.
I lived in Houston for a bit and of course heard about Sam Houston, but I never thought about the Civil War happening on the heels of Texas statehood.
I thought the two sections on Presidental sons--John Quincy Adams and Robert Taft were interesting on how they cope with being political families.
Kennedy adds the chapter at the end about how the book is about being courageous, not necessarily right.
Isn't that always the problem?
The audio book version is neat! Opens with an intro by Caroline Kennedy, then the book is read by JFK Jr and presenting some interesting (and brief) biographies of “courageous” folks then ending with three of JFK’s famous speeches.
Some are well known, like Adams and Webster, but Ross is obscure.
He was a Republican senator from Kansas who voted against conviction of President Andrew Johnson in his trumped up impeachment trial in 1868 despite offers of bribes and threats of violence.
Senator Lieberman opposes the public option, which will alienate him from his colleagues but the result is overwhelmingly bad; these were figures who took stands for constitutional law or compromise in order to avoid disunion, bloodshed or what they considered to be incorrect interpretation of the laws.
And thank you Congressman Arcuri, for voting for the health care bill despite the district being over 50% Republican.
I saw this abridged audiobook on Audible and decided to use it for a review of the book.
I normally do not like abridged books but I have found them useful as a quick review of a book I had read years ago and want to refresh my memory.This book was written in 1955 about the most admirable of human virtues -courage.
The courage of Daniel Webster was remarkable, knowing the stand he took for the country would ruin his political career, but he did it anyway because he believed it was best for the country.The forward was by Carolyn Kennedy.
I'm deeply ambivalent about this book and confused by its legacy as a classic.
I don't claim to be as versed as Kennedy on the antebellum period, but frankly his choices in individuals (i.e. exclusively Congressmen) to profile are at times perplexing.
This book reiterates that politics is no more than a silly game regardless of the era.
Whether bucking or toeing the party line, there's always some motive of hubris involved whether its the individual looking out for him/herself or constituents.
I disagree with Kennedy's frequent assertions that these men put the interests of the majority first.
Indeed it is frequently the compromisers or conciliators who are faced with the severest tests of political courage as they oppose the extremist views of their constituents." I can't believe I hadn't heard of this book until I found it at my grandmother's house, collecting dust up in my mom's and aunts' old room (fun fact: my copy is so old, the author is listed as "Senator John F.
It's a fascinating look at a fascinating man, writing about fascinating men.
It speaks to what it means to be an American of what it means to take a stand.Being a native of Texas I assumed that the chapter on Sam Houston would be my favorite.
Instead, Edmund Ross and Robert Taft were my favorites.
I think I liked them because they spoke to issues so much in the minds of Americans in 2009.
Ed Ross spoke to the balance of power.
I understand now how this book influenced President Obama's thinking.I was surprised to learn, and I should not have been sursprised, that Ted Sorenson was the writer.
Most of these men lost their seats in the Senate because of their choices.
The book is a testament to me that Providence will guide the man that will save the nation into a position to do so.
All of these men's decisions were pivital in the course of our nation.
Here is my favorite quote: "For, in a democracy, every citizen, regardless of his interest in politics, 'holds office'; every one of us is in a position of responsibility; and, in the final analysis, the kind of government we get depends upon how we fulfill those responsibilities.
Ok, I think this book is a must read before anyone should have the right to vote. It really opened my eyes to see the political courage could come from sticking to your principles AND from changing your mind; from sticking with your party AND from breaking with it. It is a great US history and civics lesson and I wish people would keep the lessons of this book in mind when droning on about political blather of today's world.
I rarely buy abridged audiobooks, but this one was too special to pass up. Introduction by Caroline Kennedy, narrated by JFK JR. Still a must read 60 years after its first publication.
But even THAT amount of respect feels tenuous when we learn later that "...constitutional authorities such as the President of the American Bar Association, the chairman of its Executive Committee and other leading members of the legal profession all deplored his statement and defended the trials as being in accordance with international law."It's places like this that I'd argue the responsible reader has a duty to scrutinize the concept of courage by deferring to facts: Either Taft was right, or his learned opponents were right, or both sides are being reductive and it'd take a half-hour tour through the history of Western law and early 20th century treaties to really explain the merits and holes in each side's arguments.
What an interesting book. Courage in politics -- a short vignette of 8 senators who displayed courage, even if they were not always right.
This book was fine and well written but I couldn't believe it won a Pulitzer until I read about how JFK's dad pulled some strings to make it happen.
I am currently running for public office at the age of 29 and I was assigned book many years ago on a summer reading list for high school---never finishing it because I never attended the magnet school I got into.
What Kennedy does not mention is Lamar's central role in the fight against abolition and reconstruction in Mississippi -- in fact, Lamar was responsible for the infamous "Mississippi Plan," in which black voters were massacred, terrorized, and kept from the polls to ensure a Democratic victory in the 1875 elections.
Nevertheless, we do get some idea of Kennedy's own beliefs filtered through Sorenson -- particularly his fascination with big, aristocratic families and the superior morality of the "genius." There is a distinct anti-democratic strain in this novel, which blames the "masses" for expecting to know better than their educated leaders.
Before JFK became President; before he became a profile in political courage himself by peacefully leading our country through the dangerous storm of the Cuban Missile Crisis, he was a talented writer who was able to successfully channel into his writing his keen understanding of history.
In the modern day of Trump when political courage and integrity seem to be ever hidden, I wanted to read PROFILES IN COURAGE to be assured that history will bear out the fact that, while there have been times when Americans have been historically slow to see the righteousness of an issue, what has often saved us from that ignorance is the fact that there have been political leaders courageous enough to stand up for what is right.
Kennedy does not necessarily agree with all of those decisions, nor does he make the judgement of right or wrong, but he attempts to highlight the difficulty that men in political power sometimes have to face decision points that challenge their individual beings.
It was as President that he would face such challenges, and his decisions, particularly in the Cuban Missile Crisis, when he acted differently from his military advisers, could have easily put him into this work, but more as an example of successful courage.
Kennedy talks about, essentially, the pressures on United State senators, having to balance the wants of their constituents, the pressures of special interest groups, consideration of the nation as a whole, and their own views on good policy.
So it was nice to read about those senators, none of whom I was aware of.Rating it is difficult for me.
A lingering difficulty to me is --- how much of this book was the work of Kennedy himself, and how much of it was produced by Ted Sorenson, his speechwriter?
The consensus seems to be that Kennedy gave the outline for the book, and Sorenson wrote it.
It’s a pretty good book, I think.
That Kennedy elected such an unknown cadre of politicians (collectively) on which to base an entire book may be a profile of courage in and of itself, but the informative yet readable manner in which he presents each story makes for very good reading.
Though biographies have undoubtedly been written about each senator featured here in only one chapter, my guess is that they and their acts of political courage remain largely unknown to all but the most avid of history buffs.
Kennedy demonstrates his respect for acts of political courage and shows a independent mind willing to acknowledge the virtue of men of all political leanings.
The selected cases are times when men of strong convictions stood against popular or partisan opinion and acted in a way consistent with their views even when it meant political death.
He believed that the marketplace of ideas should be open and free to all people of conscience and this book is a love letter to those who were willing to follow their morals rather than the crowd.
Ross - the Kansas Senator who cast the dissenting vote that helped acquit Andrew Johnson from being removed from office as U.S. President).I know there has been some debate over the years on whether JFK actually wrote the book (many feel Ted Sorensen had his hand in it) or whether it deserved the Pulitzer, but the message of political courage as well as the contributions it provided to American historical biography can't be denied.
I especially enjoyed the chapter on Ross, which although it ignores the claims that he was bribed to cast his dissenting vote, was still a vivid portrait of a man most Americans know nothing about.
I listened to the audiobook version of this, which was narrated by JFK Jr. Profiles in Courage is one of those classic books that I had been wanting to read for years.
I was expecting to hear about heroes of the past...perhaps people who risked their lives to help others, for example.
Instead, the book was about politicians from the the past two centuries who stood up for what they believed in, despite their opinions being in the minority.
In other words, these were typical politicians who preferred to follow their own path, instead of listening to "we the people." My biggest takeaway is that some things never change.
