https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17234658-a-thousand-pieces-of-you
At least, it gets resolved…but it’s not like I’ve actually finished the book, so I might be a bad source this time.And there’s also this weak, unnerving, difficult to like heroine called Marguerite (not fan of the name).She’s unsupportable.
Let’s say modesty is not her thing.And she’s saying some stuff that perhaps are intended to make you like her more but, to me, it was only eye roll-worthy.For instance:
It just makes her feel very whiny…and, if there’s something I really don’t like my heroines to be, is absolutely whiny.Last point about the main character, she is immature and reckless!
Ultimate beautiful cover --> boring book list of mine for 2014:
It's very classic Twilight era style YA, featuring a love triangle and basically every other YA trope you can think of, including the male characters protecting the female character always *major eye roll*.
It was too predictable, insta-lovey, and just overall too haven't I read this story before?However, speaking entirely objectively, if you are into the classic style YA, which there is absolutely nothing wrong if you are you read whatever makes you happy, I think you'd really enjoy this.
The love triangle wasn't the worst I've read, and the writing was solid, cliches set aside.
Absolutely stunning. Absolutely unique. Ahhhhh,
i thought the whole concept of multiple universes was effectively explained.
it was introduced in a really easy way to where i didnt feel like i had to think through all the science, which i appreciated.
i honestly didnt like marguerite and the love triangle didnt really do anything for me, but i thought the plot was just so interesting that i had to keep reading.
i also thought this book was paced really well and set up for the sequel quite nicely.
Technically I was the fool in this case. Here’s a tip for all you out there: read the blurb in depth because your cause of complaint may actually have no merit. I happily allowed myself to be deceived. Do you or do you not see that brilliantly crafted cover. I’m going to go ahead and make a grand exclamation: that may just be the most beauteous cover of 2014. Watercolours, reflections and Russia (which I love, setting wise)—it’s everything Jess could ever ask for. And that blurb. We’re promised
We’re skipping dimensions, running across parallel universes to avenge her father’s death, sure, but that’s all minuscule compared to the bigger picture: love.
Come to think of it, technically, it’s a love square but you’ll have to suffer through that one on your own.
If you’ve read my other reviews, you’d know that I’m impartial to a good parenthesis.
In fact, I love a good pop culture reference, but only when done satirically.
A Thousand Pieces of You is a brilliant read for all those who love their sci-fi with a less sci and a little more fire.
Unfortunately, the girl is not exactly filled with blood-lust, so it's pretty obvious from the start that she's not going to kill himNow, when dealing with sci-fi alternate reality whatsits and a plot that could potentially create some pretty intricate plot holes, it's a good idea to properly explain how yo shit works.
The best explanation in the book is literally where the author explains what an alternate dimension is.
What we would like, Claudia Gray, is a decent explanation of how you've made dimension leaping possible, how it all works, what happens when you get there.
Buddy read with the lovely  May! Rating: ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ / 5 starsLead Male Character: ★ ★ ★ ★ / 5 stars (Theo) ★ ★ ★ ★ / 5 stars (Paul)Lead Female Character: ★ ★ ★ ★ / 5 starsPlotline: ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ / 5 starsGenre: Dystopian, futuristic, action, adventure, and romanceWill I recommend this book to others?: YES!Will I reread this book?: YES! Overall story summed up in one word: Perfection!This book was brilliant. Absolutely brilliant.Honestly, there are no words for how beautiful and perfect this book is
Buddy read with the lovely 
Overall story summed up in one word: Perfection!This book was brilliant.
Absolutely brilliant.Honestly, there are no words for how beautiful and perfect this book is.
You just have to pick it up and see for yourself :)A Thousand Pieces of You was filled with plot twists, cute and adorable guys, and a whole lot of awesome stuff!
It's super complicated to explain and seriously, PICK UP THE DAMN BOOK IF YOU HAVEN'T ALREADY!And before I forget, PAUL MARKOV IS MINE, I REPEAT, PAUL MARKOV IS MINE!
DAT COVER.ERMAHGERD. (Note: I swear I'm an intelligent reviewer most times.)
Bien, pues Mil Lugares Donde Encontrarte nos presenta primero a una familia relativamente normal (?) en la que los padres son unos súper científicos/físicos que se han dedicado toda su vida a encontrar la manera de viajar entre dimensiones (que no en el tiempo)...
Toda la familia está en shock, pero Theo le dice a Marguerite que tiene dos prototipos del Pájaro de Fuego que tal vez funcionen y que podrían ir a perseguir a Paul entre dimensiones para vengar la muerte de su padre.
Alternative titles for this masterpiece:  -  A Thousand Pieces of My Shattered Heart -  A Thousand Reasons to Love Paul Markov -  A Thousand Moments of Pain and Happiness This book was bloody brilliant!! Claudia Gray has spun a gorgeous tale that is dazzling, intense, and so fricken enjoyable to read! This book has it all; dimension travel, a lesson in physics, heart-stalling plot twists, family values, and a precious love interest that has stolen my heart. And I mean look at that cover, it’s
Alternative titles for this masterpiece:  -	 A Thousand Pieces of My Shattered Heart -	 A Thousand Reasons to Love Paul Markov -	 A Thousand Moments of Pain and Happiness This book was bloody brilliant!!
This book has it all; dimension travel, a lesson in physics, heart-stalling plot twists, family values, and a precious love interest that has stolen my heart.
“I have no need for a world without you in it.”  *screams for ten decades* 4.5 stars!!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Buddy read  with the lovely, Alyssa
And man, did it deliver.I think A Thousand Pieces of You is definitely my favorite Claudia Gray book.
"I don't know if I'm the kind of person who can kill a man in cold blood.
From pretty early on you get the picture she knows next about nothing regarding what exactly the device her parent's made to cross dimensions does but she still risks it in order to find her father's supposed murderer.
Does that mean I fell in love with every Paul, everywhere?" (hide spoiler)]A Thousand Pieces of You is a must read this year.
I liked Evernight, but I LOVED A Thousand Pieces of You and I can't wait for the sequel!Old Update:THAT COVER ["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>

Is it woefully wrong to say that I want to read this because of that absolutely gorgeous cover?
As I mentioned the inter-dimensional travel is very openly exhibited aspect and protagonist jumps into not just one but many dimensions, in which she discover the many paths her world could have taken.I really enjoyed this book and finished it in one sitting.
The plot grows thicker as we delve deeper into the book and Claudia Gray does a great job in creating the Firebird element of the story.
I love the plot and I rate this book 4.5 stars.The cover of this book is BEAUTIFUL and represents not only 2 different dimensions but also our protagonists love for art, so great job on that front.
3.5  "You are not my Marguerite. And yet, you are. This essential thing you share - your soul - that is what I love. I would love you in any shape, in any world, with any past. Never doubt that." A Thousand Pieces of You is a book with a 5-star premise, unfortunately laden with a few core issues that drag down my rating. Marguerite is the daughter of two genius physicists inventing a machine that allows consciousness to jump through parallel universes. Meg's father is killed for his research, so
Things escalate romantically; action-wise, not so much.The fun part of this book is the soap opera shitstorm that results from interdimensional love triangles.
(hide spoiler)] This is superfood for drama, and double it because there are two love interests.
Basically, I came for the premise but stuck around for the relationships.The plot structure needed some work.
Take the villain, for example: (view spoiler)[ Wyatt Conley tries to blackmail Meg's family so that he can send spies and start wars in other dimensions.
(view spoiler)[ Conley manages to stash a device that can superify people (which he obtained from God knows where) in Meg's living room.
SO MUCH LOVE FOR THIS BOOK.
I thought it was going to be a YA science fiction story in futuristic London, but then it turned into a Russian historical romance that morphed into some post-apocolyptic revenge story on an oceanic research station?
I really have no idea how to explain the plot, but it's so much fun.Anyways, the sequel is awesome as well and everything just keeps getting more and more imaginative and plot-twisty.
The biggest selling point for me was probably fantasy Russia, but there's kind of something for everyone in here.
If in the world you're building objects, namely, everything having mass, cannot be moved from a dimension to the other, you cannot in any way assume that the object used to move a coscience from a dimension to the other -the Firebird- can move along with it.Is this that hard to grasp?But I get that this whole book wouldn't have been written without this "oversight", so let's bend the rules of physics to make the story work.
When a person uses the Firebird to jump into another dimension, it's only their coscience, a form of energy, according to Gray's point of view, that travels, not the body, which, as I said, can't be moved through different dimensions being made of matter.
What I got instead was a slow burn love triangle as Marguerite decides which boy she likes the most and can trust the most, which was repeated in each universe and in my opinion killed the pacing.
I think it's important to consider plot as context for relationships in the first place, because there is a time and place for romance.I don't know about you, but if my father had just been MURDERED and I wasn't sure which of my friends did it, romancing either of them would be the last thing on my mind.Of course, we can't talk about love triangles without talking about the motivations of female characters.
Every form of art is another way of seeing the world. Another perspective, another window. And science –that’s the most spectacular window of all. You can see the entire universe from there.  Marguerite Caine is known to be the daughter of the famous achievers who built a invention together called the Firebird, a creation that allows one to jump into different dimensions, different universes, different worlds. Her father, Henry Caine, was an English man who was the only one to believe Sophia,
Knowing Marguerite wants vengeance for what happened to her father, she does not give up and decides to go with Theo by jumping into these different worlds to find Paul and make him pay for what he did.
But sometimes, things aren't always as one believes it to be, and Marguerite begins to doubt her suspicion and finds out the truth about her father's murder.I was told by a friend of mine that Spain changed me since I was over there for a month and did not read at all, so maybe that has to do with it?
(Full review update..) Here's a nice little spoiler free full review of my FEELS.
If you, a smart reader like myself (eh, or what I tell myself that I am...) -you probably will think you can guess simply based on the description/back of the book summary that Paul Markov who is accused of killing Marguerite's father is an innocent guy and this book is all about her realizing he's innocent and blah blah blah end of story.
but this book was down right fun.
I like not knowing who to trust..
Why do I like (view spoiler)[ALL THE THEOS AND ALL THE PAULS.
*3 AVERAGE STARS* "Every form of art is another way of seeing the world." Let me just cut right to the chase: I didn't like this book. When I first read the plot and saw the stunning cover, I thought this was going to be awesome and badass but in the end this book left me really disappointed. The whole plot with the time travel and different dimensions could have been really interesting, but the author didn't use it to their full potential in my opinion. So much more could've happened but this b
So much more could've happened but this book only contained three dimensions, in which Marguerite started this weird love quadrangle involving Theo and two Pauls (yeah, you read that right), and it left me completely confused.I can't really put my finger on what exactly I didn't like about this.
I mean, I definitely loved the whole idea of time travel, but not the way they went about it.
3.25 stars//The cover...
Has there ever been a fictional man more perfect than Paul?
I could have done without Theo, but he did add another dimension to this (ha ha ha) and, having read the rest of this series, his character is a lovely and complex shade of grey.
The abridged version is that Paul is perfection and I will defend him until my dying breath.
This book was a blast, and so is the rest of the series.
And thanks for bringing Paul into my life.
And my friends, I should've read it sooner.I love time travel.
I haven't read many novels with that theme, but I love it.
I loved the many verses this story had; my favorite most definitely being the Russiaverse.
Oh my God. I smiled like an idiot, laughed, swooned, and cried reading that verse.
Yes, this book has a love triangle.
I've stated many times that love triangles don't bother me if they're done right.
I love them both so much I want to protect them.And the big twist...
The pacing was great, the plot was crazy and I just want more, more, more.Prepare to be amazed when you read this book!
So Meg joins her BFF Theo (who also works with her parents, how convenient) in a quest for revenge.Don't get too excited though, it's less:or maybe actually there's a lot of:The book had so much potential I AM ANGRY.
But the thing that annoyed the fuck out of me is that in every single chapter Meg remembers Paul, the way he used to be around her, how he looked; and with every motherfucker chapter she slowly falls in love.Nevermind that he killed her father (but he didn't do it remember?
I fell in love with one Paul.
Holy cow, A Thousand Pieces of You was a serious ride.What works so well in this book is that author Claudia Gray sets up the very complex world building, then spins philosophy, art, mystery and romance around it.
I also felt like the guys were archetypes: Paul was the silent, mysterious boy, while Theo was the bad boy with the good heart.
There's a bit of everything in this book: romance, adventure, suspense, mystery, time travel, historical, sci-fi...trust me when I say that you need this one on your TBR immediately.
And CONSTANTLY other characters were like "omg, Theo, you shouldn't have taken Marguerite dimension hopping!
gah.SMALL LIST OF THINGS THAT DISGRUNTLED ME:+ The book starts with Paul accused of murdering Marguerite's dad, and he bounces dimensions, so Theo and Margey bop after him.
ERgh.+ Also there's this part when, in the Russia segment, Margey is running for her life with that-dimension-Paul and they (view spoiler)[totally are trapped in a hideout in the snow or what not...soooo....LET'S HAVE SEX YEAH!
I definitely enjoyed a lot of things about the book and would be SO up for reading more dimension-travel now!
I’m not Claudia Gray, aka the woman I believe is going to ruin me.So anyway, Marguerite and her sister basically have adoptive siblings.
How about Marguerite’s parents adopt Theo and Paul and they are nothing like siblings to Marguerite at all?
That is something I do like about it though, that it isn’t a Edward/Jacob thing where you know she is going to end up with ****.Two, I know we are all tired of love triangles, but that does make things interesting for books so I see why they do it.2.
I didn’t even read the description of the book before I added it because the cover it so gorgeous!
That said, I’m SO glad I decided to read it because I looooved the book!Marguerite grew up with physicists for parents, so she’s no stranger to experiments and gadgets strewn about her house.
There was a lot of talk about the science and physics that allowed Marguerite to jump between dimensions but it was never overwhelming to the point where I was confused.
I cannot wait to read book two – I’m planning to start it tonight so I can find out what happens next!
Re-read 1/4/16: GUUUUHHHHHH STILL SO GOOD GONNA IMMEDIATELY START NEXT BOOKOriginal Review 3/24/15: GUUUHHHHHHH SO GOOD NEED NEXT BOOK
