https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16139641-grounded
But in the context of the story, it was EXACTLY what they both wanted and needed from each other and so I found that even though it kind of went right to the boundaries of my comfort zone, it never crossed the line and I always felt that everything that happened was ‘right’ for them.And ho BOY is this book  HOT  !!
Seriously, so few book guys are the absolute perfect blend of everything I love and JAMES IS ONE OF THEM!!!
After finishing Mile High I knew I had a wait but boy did I luck out.......................In my opinion Grounded is the BEST book in the entire series.
You could feel the love he had for Bianca while reading but don't worry our total ALPHA DOM Mr. Cavendish was still there.
Grounded really shows you a different side of James as well as Bianca working on breaking down those walls and letting someone else in her heart besies Stephan.
I will tell you there's is a part in this book where I BLUSHED I was totally going OMG OMG OMG and then I giggled.
He’s completely blown away by his feelings for Bianca, his absolute desire to dominate her consumes him and his fear that her father may harm her causes him to hire a team of security for her.Bianca’s heart is still sealed inside a block of ice.
Theirs is an incredibly special relationship and, until now, has always excluded everyone else but now they both need to make room in their hearts for someone else as Stephan becomes closer to Javier and Bianca and James move closer to committing to one another.
Finally this book is over. It seems like it took me forever to read it. I am sad to say that it really wasn't my favorite. I felt like James was totally different in this book. I didn't feel like I could connect with James or Bianca. I will say the ending was good and just how I had swooned over James in the first two books. It was the perfect ending to this series. I just overall wasn't impressed with this book
5 Breathtaking Beautiful Stars  Although I waited for this book with great anticipation, I did not think it would be possible for Ms. Lilley to top In Flight or Mile High... but I was wrong. As much as I loved the first two, Grounded was able to surpass them..  Mr.Cavendish...delicious.. [image error]James Cavendish was at his best in this one.. His Dom to Bianca's Sub was so much more intense as their realationship solidified itself over and over again. James's ability to give Bianca exactly
James's ability to give Bianca exactly what she needed when she needed through both pain and pleasure...Bianca grew to truely understand and believe in his love for her and trust it..
“Why do you love me?" His eyes got so soft, changed in an instant from confused and into that impossibly tender look that got me every time.
I fell in love with your eyes first because I looked into their depths and saw the other half of my soul.”Bianca's best friend Stephan is still there for her and he and James continued to form a very tight relationship since they both cared so much for Bianca..
Mr. Cavendish is back and better than ever!!!  James Cavendish goes by many names...Mr. Violent, Mr. Sadistic, Mr. Excessive, Mr. Magnanimous, Mr. Romantic, Mr. Muse, Mr. Damaged, Mr. Wonderful, Mr. Supermodel, Mr. Gorgeous, Mr. Understanding, Mr. Perfect, Mr. Dubious, Mr. Callous, Mr. Controlling, Mr. Curious, Mr. Amenable, Mr. Playful, Mr. Scandalous, Mr. Distant, Mr. Uncivilized, Mr. Reticent, Mr. Manipulative, Mr. Desperate, Mr. Porn Star, Mr. Incensed, Mr. Distraught, Mr. Kinky, Mr. Domesti
James Cavendish goes by many names...Mr. Violent, Mr. Sadistic, Mr. Excessive, Mr. Magnanimous, Mr. Romantic, Mr. Muse, Mr. Damaged, Mr. Wonderful, Mr. Supermodel, Mr. Gorgeous, Mr. Understanding, Mr. Perfect, Mr. Dubious, Mr. Callous, Mr. Controlling, Mr. Curious, Mr. Amenable, Mr. Playful, Mr. Scandalous, Mr. Distant, Mr. Uncivilized, Mr. Reticent, Mr. Manipulative, Mr. Desperate, Mr. Porn Star, Mr. Incensed, Mr. Distraught, Mr. Kinky, Mr. Domesticated, Mr. Matchmaker, Mr. Indulgent, Mr. Forever, Mr. Besotted, Mr. Wretched, Mr. Tragic, Mr. Desolate, Mr. Helpless Or my personal favorites: Mr. Beautiful and Control Freak Cavendish
I loved that James and Bianca didn’t have any unneeded relationship drama in this one!
4.5 FOREVER-AMAZING-Mr.-James-Cavendish Stars "I fell in love with your eyes first because I looked into their depths and saw the other half of my soul." A scorchingly romantic ending, in the highly acclaimed "Up In The Air" trilogy, Grounded, concludes the story of James & Bianca, who fought their own worst enemies, themselves and managed to prevail.R.K. Lilley, seduces and glues us in the pages, trying and failing not to fall in love with the one and only Mr. James Cavendish.Arrogant, filt
4.5 FOREVER-AMAZING-Mr.-James-Cavendish Stars
"I fell in love with your eyes first because I looked into their depths and saw the other half of my soul."
A scorchingly romantic ending, in the highly acclaimed "Up In The Air" trilogy, Grounded, concludes the story of James & Bianca, who fought their own worst enemies, themselves and managed to prevail.R.K. Lilley, seduces and glues us in the pages, trying and failing not to fall in love with the one and only Mr. James Cavendish.Arrogant, filthy rich bastard, possessive, moody, completely insane and in serious need of therapy, romantic and the Dom of our dreams, he captivates and ensnares.
She has finally accepted James' possesion and she thrives in her new life.
⟡ 5 Matching-Outfits Rating ⟡   My Mr. Cavendish    My Bianca    [image error]       ~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~ The world went from black and white and into color when I laid eyes on you, my love. There'll be no going back. James and Bianca relationship is more intense in this book. At this point they are very much deep in love (although it takes them a while to admit it to each other). But when they do... wow do things progress so fast and in a right direction with them.Having
James and Bianca relationship is more intense in this book.
Red wings and one very callous Dom move for punishment.
yes I agree Bianca needed punishment for what she did.
So yes she needed punishment...
James cooled down as much as his Dom side would allow and I was majorly impressed by Bianca's response to the (view spoiler)[ sex tape  (hide spoiler)].
I full on expected her to run as usual and I'm glad I was proven wrong.There is some interesting stuff going on with side characters like Akira/Lana & Tristan/Danika that would make for fantastic spin-offs.
Thank you Strong-and-Beautiful Bianca!
Actual rating: 2.5 starsI didn't want to review this book directly after finishing it because I was extremely frustrated.
It's one of the times when I feel like I've read a different book from everybody else.Bianca is living now with James.
I always think twice before reading Romance trilogies/series about the same characters not because I think it doesn't need 3 books to finish a love story but because I KNOW IT.
As you can see, this book was a huge disappointment even if I wasn't waiting for something mind-blowing because I love Bianca and James and even after finishing this book, I still care about them.
The story felt fragmented, the book jumped from one scene to another and yes, there was lots of hot sex, but at times it felt that the sex was just used as a filler to beef up the story line.On a positive note I was much more endeared to Bianca in this book as she finally stopped running away long enough to develop a more emotional relationship with James.
I just wish I hadn't become a little bored of Bianca and James' story, but there really are only so many times a woman can orgasm on demand and it not start to feel a little repetitive.
~~~~4 stars for Mr. Cavendish~~~~"You'll know when I'm ready to give you my cock because you'll have it inside of you." ************************************************This is the conclusion of Bianca and James' story. I really really loved this series. Throughout the book we saw the many faces of Mr. Beautiful himself. With James, you never know who or what you're going to get. Here goes...Mr. VIOLENT, Mr. SADISTIC, Mr. EXCESSIVE, Mr. MAGNANIMOUS, Mr. ROMANTIC, Mr. MUSE, Mr. DAMAGED, Mr. WONDE
With James, you never know who or what you're going to get.
And I’ll play with your body whenever I damn well please.”“I fell in love with your eyes first because I looked into their depths and saw the other half of my soul.”[image error] “Now you will feel no rain,For each of you will be shelter to the other.Now you will feel no cold,For each of you will be warmth to the other.Now there is no more loneliness for you.For each of you will be companion to the other.Now you are two bodies,But there is only one life before you.”
I listed the many reasons why this book series is my ultimate favorite in my review of book 1 and 2 so I will simply say that book 3 is my favorite out of all 3 books.
We finally get to Bianca and James really cultivating their relationship in this book.
The other woman drama is dramatically decreased and Bianca finally accepts that she needs to open herself up more to James.
James remained steadfast with his need to make Bianca his forever, which makes me adore him more.
LOVE, LOVE, LOVE this series!
★★★★★! Up in the Air series, book 3 of 3. Debut by R.K. Lilley. Intense, epic saga, erotic tale & mesmerizing love story with a larger-than-life James Cavendish & his Bianca!   “I love you, too, James, but that doesn’t give you a free pass.” “No, it doesn’t. Being your Dom does that, Love. I’ve compromised far more for you than I’ve ever done for anyone or anything in my life. Controlling you sexually is something I won’t be bending on...”   There are three books in the Up In The Air s
Intense, epic saga, erotic tale & mesmerizing love story with a larger-than-life James Cavendish & his Bianca!
There are three books in the Up In The Air series, but see below for BONUS chapter links:Book 1: In FlightBook 2: Mile HighBook 3: Grounded James Cavendish and Bianca Karlsson are both beautiful beyond words, but underneath those good looks are two very broken, flawed, lonely and haunted souls.
As the story of Princess Buttercup (Bianca) and her Love comes to an end the 3rd and final verse of its theme song illustrates that Princess Buttercup very much wants her HEA:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aYQ4B1...
THIS WAS SIMPLY MIND-BLOWING!!!!!!!! R.K. LILLEY IS OFFICIALLY ONE OF MY FAVOURITE AUTHOR!!! I ADORE HER WRITING!!!  You need to meet Mr. Cavendish!!!! Mr, Grey, who? Mr. Beautiful tops my CEO chart <3 This book picks from Book 2 perfectly and it gonna gets hotter, steamier and I am in love! That man's mouth, only love! "Get on your knees and suck me off""I'm keeping the scarf. I have plans""He's got you collared, Bianca. That' some real serious shit from him. He's possessive as all hell ab
THIS WAS SIMPLY MIND-BLOWING!!!!!!!!
R.K. LILLEY IS OFFICIALLY ONE OF MY FAVOURITE AUTHOR!!!
I ADORE HER WRITING!!!
You need to meet Mr. Cavendish!!!!
This book picks from Book 2 perfectly and it gonna gets hotter, steamier and I am in love!
That man's mouth, only love!
I have plans""He's got you collared, Bianca.
He's possessive as all hell about every inch of you""Your body belongs to me, Bianca, no matter the fucking time of the month" 
Pick it up!!!!!
Let Mr James Cavendish blow you away!!!!!
And on top of that, I love the way how Tristan and Danika was introduced.....
"YES Mr Cavendish...
And it was worth every second...Such a well written story filled with lots of sex..
I think it's wonderful how the book is about some other strong characters as well..I was not bored for even a second!
This story is filled with passion, love, pain, healing, violence, happiness and so much more!
We go through the story of Bianca and James falling in love with each other.Only one person comes to my mind obviously when I think of Mr Cavendish, and who can blame me??
Bianca finally gets to be happy in her life, with James and Stephan at her side..
Well...Hello, Mr. Beautiful!!!
4.5 ★'sThat's it...that's all I want at this point, well that and a few answers but I'm ready for Bianca and James to just be happy!
Then there's the major decision for Bianca if she can let go of her issues and just be happy with James.
One thing I can say for certain is that you will get a lot of answers, some will make you happy and some won't and some you definitely won't expect.
I enjoyed seeing them happy and getting to know James' friends more.
Sigh...I really love this series.
Since there is so much drama about his past women I have wondered why.
During this last book I figured out why.
You just never doubt it and he is so open about his feelings.
And I love that I feel it as I read the series.Safety Gang(view spoiler)[in this book the sex tape is finally revealed.
(James is distraught.
It was filmed years ago without his knowledge) It is not a major portion of the book.
It actually helps her understand how different James is with her than his past women.
(hide spoiler)]
James and Bee are like EPICNESS PERSONIFIED!I want to have James' babies!
those 2-3chapters in Stephan and James' POV ;) *bliss*Stephan!
Bee and Stephan are like the cutest bff couple EVER!
Their love for each other is so fucking heart warming :')All the bantering between Judith and Marnie was like EPIC!
Totally made me LOLI loveddddd the the Mr. title chapters were back, totally missed them in book2, glad to have them back."I fell in love with your eyes first because I looked into their depths and saw the other half of my soul."Awwieeeeeee!!~Can't want for Lana's book and Dinika's book!
I have to wrap my head around this story.  3.5 starsThis is the third and final installment in the "Up In The Air" series, and I SOO wanted to LOVE it as much as I did the first two, but unfortunately, I didn't.Somewhere along the line, I felt the author lost her amazing characters, and instead filled this story with a whole bunch of creative ways (and places) James could f*%K Bianca.I LOVED James in the first two books, but not so much in this one. In this story he comes across way too obsessiv
3.5 starsThis is the third and final installment in the "Up In The Air" series, and I SOO wanted to LOVE it as much as I did the first two, but unfortunately, I didn't.Somewhere along the line, I felt the author lost her amazing characters, and instead filled this story with a whole bunch of creative ways (and places) James could f*%K Bianca.I LOVED James in the first two books, but not so much in this one.
In this story he comes across way too obsessive and domineering (more like an extreme stalker or abusive spouse).For me, BDSM is a relationship between two people (the Dom & Sub) that fulfills their needs.
Awesome conclusion to a great series. With 2 epilogues, 1 year and 5 years into the future.
5 Stars - Best book of the trilogy! ♥ I think it’s safe to say in Bianca’s (or Stephan’s) case that their clearly better off. In the third installment Bianca once and for all stops resisting her undeniable feeling towards James and finally opens up her heart. Throughout their love story theirs constant occurrences that way heavy on their relationship that could potentially tear them apart.  MUY CALIENTE!! ;)Caleb Followill sang it best,  “... your sex is on fire.”   Nicely done R. K. Lilley thos
Throughout their love story theirs constant occurrences that way heavy on their relationship that could potentially tear them apart.
Will James undisclosed secret going public tear them apart???(view spoiler)[Step aside Kim Kardashian...
James believing his past mistakes will end them for good.
Ignore me.On to better things...“I wanted you to have a perfect view of the world that I want to lay at your feet, my love”Awwhhhh seriously, Mr. James Cavendish, seriously.
I love me some happy endings.
Oh yes, I’m yours forever, James.”“Everything feels new, now that I have you.
A sexy series deserves and equally sexy picture to describe it... "God, did I miss you, Love. Is thirty too young to retire from working? I'd love to just make love to you full-time, instead"Oh Double DAMN....10 FREAKIN' STARS R.K LILLEY...and my heartfelt thanks for bringing these 3 books into my life. James Cavendish will hold the 1st place title of ultimate book boyfriend for a very long time. I loved this damn book so much, I'm all over the place! I'm gonna try and reel it in and state facts
I loved this damn book so much, I'm all over the place!
still swooningIf you haven't read this series, you need to.
I can't put into words how much I loved these books...the characters, the storylines, the angst, the erotica, the BDSM, the lavishness, the EVERYTHING!And the sex...from black and blue roses, to possessive loving, to paint, to holy shit I'm fanning my panties, it was fab-u-lous!!!How I'm feeling now that I'm done with Grounded..
:)Grounded left me satisfied, wanting more, loving the ending, and feeling like I could have read more books about these incredible characters.
Although these kinds of trilogies are very popular right now and the story progression did have some very familiar elements to it-it was different enough to engage me and to keep my interest until I had read the very last word!
I think the relationship that Stephan and Bianca have as more like siblings than anything else is what got me teary eyed.
I just could relate to that kind of devotion very well.
The HEA was great, although I think it would've been cool to hear about Bianca's painting career and what happened with Stephan and Javiers lives as well.
We continue our wonderful journey with James and Bianca.
I love the fact that it takes right off from the last book.
I felt, I never left their sides and just turns into one long book.
Loved it.
But I loved him equally and more so then I ever have.
One of the many things I love about her is that, she sticks up for her self and does not let James walk all over her.
My heart melts for Stephan.
I want to read more and more of Stephan.
Overall this book was what I wanted and more.

“I love you, Bianca,” he said very quietly.“There isn’t a thing about you that I don’t adore.Even the things that have made it hard for you to let me in hold a special place in my heart.I never thought I’d meet a woman that I couldn’t doubt,a person that I could so easily give my trust to, but I know your soul, and it is so pure and clear to me that I feel like I can see right into it.”
And I may say that one of them will have a book of their own...(view spoiler)[Danika and Tristan (hide spoiler)]You can most definetly expect some of that hot loving that we can sure associate with Bianca and James.
Grounded, just like the first two books in the Up In The Air series I had a love/hate relationship with the book.
After reading the series now, I still do not understand the appeal of James Cavendish.
I went from liking Bianca in book one to thinking she is just as crazy as James by book three.
My review for this series is all over the place, I just don’t understand why I kept wanting to read it not liking anything about it, but I kept reading so that must say something about the series.I give Grounded 2.5 Stars.
A lovely conclusion to James and Bianca's story. These two unexpectedly grew on me and their relationship blossomed just the way I liked it. The characters had a great development (including the side characters, Stephan and Javier. I ship these two as well). I love James for being honest to Bianca especially about his past. Bianca is an admirable woman. I love her simplicity, elegance and perseverance in life. I love how she accepts someone's fault wholeheartedly and open up herself to vulnerability.Overall, it's a great trilogy. I'm definitely going to read more R.K. Lilley's books :)
It's getting closer! I want to see their HEA!Wow!!!!! Thank you R.K. Lilley! This was amazing. Review soon.....
5 Cashmere Scarf Stars! "Everyone should get to experience a love like that. That kind of love makes us better people.”  “Now you will feel no rain,For each of you will be shelter to the other.Now you will feel no cold,For each of you will be warmth to the other.Now there is no more loneliness for you.”“For each of you will be companion to the other.Now you are two bodies,But there is only one life before you.” Wow, what a heart-stopping conclusion to a fantastic series! Even though there were a
Even though there were a few things I didn't like in this one, it was overall a sweet,sexy, romantic, surprising, heart-wrenching, and breathtaking conclusion.
Grounded picks up in this installment with Bianca no longer able to deny her feelings for James, for even though it wasn't her intention she's fallen in love with him.
She's also the girl who in this final installment, is trying to move on from her past and let James into her heart completely...
We were introduced to James "Mr. Beautiful" Cavendish in the first two installments in this series and I've found myself falling in love with him a little bit more each novel.
