https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/187065.New_Spring
They spend a bunch of time in Tar Valon, first doing clerical work, then forced into projects by higher-ranking Aes Sedai, and it's 60% before Moiraine gets around to fleeing the Tower, but she's so awful that I almost wished we were back in the Tower doing nothing.
Moiraine is vile.Then there's the Lady Edeyn, also known as Lan's carneira.
Ask me.You: ???When she's manipulating him back into bed with her.YES.
You don't learn anything necessary to the continuation of the series, so do yourself a favor and toss this one on the burn pile.
The Dragon Reborn (Wheel of Time, #3) by Robert Jordan
*** 4 ***A Buddy Read with the best Fantasy Fans at BB&B!!!A very nice recap of how the search for The Dragon Reborn started and the two Aes Seday who sacrificed much and dedicated their lives to finding and keeping him safe in order to live and be at his strongest at the time of the Last Battle between The Light and the Dark Lord.
We also got to see a young Lan , who is wonderful even as a pup.
A nice addition, but not an essential one.
I wish you all Happy Reading and find time to enjoy the gorgeous Autumn Weather!!!
But if it takes 60% for your books to go anywhere and you destroy beloved characters along the way I’m totally going to have a problem.So this is supposed to be an origin story or a prequel to the Wheel of Time series set a little less than 20 years before Eye of the World.
The only thing that I appreciated in this first half of the book is FINALLY seeing what the test to become a full sister looked like.Problem #3 was thinking of characters one way and then seeing them another.
This WoT prequel is the story of how Moiraine and Lan first met and of how Moiraine and Siuan got caught up in all the Dragon Reborn related intrigue.
It is set 20 years before the happenings in Eye of the World.
It was told mostly from Moiraine's POV, but we also got a number of chapters from Lan's POV.
It gave both characters plenty of time to shine and I definitely like both of them a lot more after reading their adventures in this story.
It is fun to see how some have changed over the years and how some have not!
Rather, it's the world that Jordan created that allows this novella to "capture our imagination."After all, New Spring was published at a time when "The Wheel of Time" had become almost hopelessly bogged down in ongoing ...
Freed of all this baggage, New Spring makes the WOT feel fun again.I once read that Jordan had begun to make plans for a second fantasy series after he'd finished with the "Wheel of Time", and it's quite saddening that he passed away before he was able to start it.
I have read and loved the entire Wheel of Time series so it was fun to read the prequel to the whole affair. I really enjoyed finding out how Moiraine and Lan met and how he became her warder. I also liked all the information about the White Tower and the Aes Sedai. There is nothing in this book that you have to know before enjoying the rest of the series but it is a nice little piece of background information. Loved the ending - it almost made me go and pick up Book 1 to read again.
Iskreno rečeno nekako mi je ovo ostalo bolje u sećanju, da li pošto sam tada bio u punom zanosu vezano za serijal il šta ne znam.
Ali sada sam se malo ohladio Pa reko ajde da krenem opet sa ovim serijalom da se potsetim moje ljubavi iz mladosti :)I barem ova knjiga nije baš izdržala test vremena.
ne simpatični i na momente čak i pokvareni ali bez onog nečega zbog čega bi ih ipak našli interesantnim.Tako da sve ukupno razočaravajuće i po meni štivo koje je najbolje zaobići.
Plus nastavk čitanja serijala ću da odložim dok se ovo ne slegne.
But if you want to discover everything on the go, you may read it whenever pleases you, as it takes place about 20-30 years before the start of events in The Eye of the World.The volume is more explanatory than anything else: the focus is on Moiraine and Lan (two of the key characters in the books to come), how their paths crossed and clarifies the journey ahead with its ultimate goal.
Moiraine meets Lan. There are much more than these events in the prequel and some more familiar faces appear than the ones I already mentioned.I gave this book 5 stars initially, but I was sure I would lower the rating to 4 stars after I read this tale for the second time.
It also happened to have interesting and fast-moving (in the second half of the book) plot.The first half of the book is mostly spent on Moiraine and Siuan Sanche training in the White Tower.
Legend fades to myth and even myth is long forgotten when the Age that gave it birth returns again.What was, what will be, and what is, may yet fall under the Shadow."Some readers may confuse because Some readers read this novel before 'The Eye of the World' because it is a prequel story of 'The Wheel of Time'.
Some readers read this novel after 'Crossroads of Twilight' because of the publish order.
Some readers read this novel after 'A Memory of Light' because the end of 'A Memory of Light' book stated to read 'New Spring' after 'A Memory of Light'.
I read the Wheel of Time series by Robert Jordan because both my husband and best friend had read them.
The best friend highly encouraged me to read the books - my husband warned me off.The warning is not because the books are bad.
Great character development, interesting universe for those who love fantasy novels.The warning is because these books never, ever, ever are going to end.
I think the last six books have taken place over the book plot timeline of about a month.
No lie.The books start off with just 4-5 main characters...but over time I think there become closer to 20.
I'm not sure there were any major spoilers hidden in here but it definitely gives you an idea about which of the Aes Sedai can and can't be trusted so I can see why I was told to hold off on reading it until this point in the series.I'm really torn about how to rate this book, yes it was interesting to see how Moiraine and Siuan got involved in the search for the Dragon Reborn and I liked seeing a younger version of Lan but I'm not sure this actually gave us any new information that we haven't already discovered throughout the rest of the series.
I feel like I should've read this after like 2nd or 3rd book. This filler book seems a little embellished but empty somehow. Liked the overall story though.
A pleasure. I enjoyed it more than the later books in the main series, way more than Crossroads of Twilight for example.
Moiraine and Siuan were young and learning about the Dragon Reborn.
Then the story became about Moiraine and Siuan in the Tower, and while I found some of this interesting, I didn't find it all that relevant.
Lan was one of my favorite characters through the series, so I was looking forward to learning more about him.
The most disappointing thing about this book was Moiraine.
And if you do read it, I think reading after the 14 main books makes the most sense.
I don't think I would have gotten as much from the story had I read it earlier in the sequence.
I liked that person for the first half, then she did some questionable shit, and I stopped feeling so charitably towards her.Plus, there was all this gross sex stuff with Lan and the Malkieri that I just found really unappealing, and I don't care what Jordan was trying to do with it, gender roles reversing, blah blah blah, it just annoyed the hell out of me and me feel worse about everybody.
(Do we never get to see any of our regular main characters pass the test and "officially" earn the shawl?)The book ends with Moiraine having left the White Tower and making Lan her Warder.
It describes the coming-of-age of Moiraine Damodred and Siuan Sanche as Aes Sedai and how Moiraine and how al'Lan Mandragoran came to be Moiraine's Warder.I've read the last book of the Wheel of Time, A Memory of Light, back in January 2013.
Well, welcome to the prequel of the Wheel of Time, I say :)Then we meet Moiraine Damodred, still fresh and young, shivering in the cold, and obviously not yet an Aes Sedai.
Previously he was all like "never work with Aes Sedai, they might bind you", then one long afternoon and a small talk and he acknowledged without really knowing how that would work out.I gave the novel 4 stars.
5 / 3.5
Prequel 'New Spring', a short book written after book ten in the 'Wheel of Time' series, is the story of how Moiraine Damodred and Siuan Sanche became Aes Sedai.
It explains why they decided to find the 'Dragon Reborn.' I have finished the entire series, and I can say reading this book out of order will not hurt a reader's enjoyment of the main series at all.
However, the reader will not find this novel as exciting as the official first book, The Dragon Reborn.
In all honesty, if I had read 'New Spring' first, I may have not continued with the series.
There are no beginnings or endings in the wheel of time but this is an ending.
The prequel was the only book I hadn't read (listened to).
It was enjoyable.
Kramer and Reading are just two of the best narrators out there.
The book itself while classic wheel of time was disappointing.
There wasn't anything new of note and the first 60% was all white tower not Moraine and Lan off figuring out things about the Dragon.
If you're a WOT fan, and I am but see it's many flaws keeping it from being the GOAT, don't read this late in the series.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
The wheel, however, turns as it pleases and eventually allowed only that to became written, so let's read it and enjoy it without thinking about anything else.Η Moirane, ο Lan και η Siuan είναι τρία από τα πιο σημαντικά πρόσωπα σε ολόκληρη τη σειρά του Τροχού του Χρόνου, κυρίως, όμως, παρακολουθούμε την πορεία τους από απόσταση, με τον συγγραφέα πολύ σπάνια να μας δίνει τη δική τους οπτική γωνία και με αυτό το τρόπο μία κοντινότερη μάτια στις σκέψεις και στα συναισθήματά τους.
Το μόνο διαφορετικό που έχει είναι ίσως μία περισσότερη χαλαρότητα, η δυσπιστία του απέναντι στις Aes Sedai αλλά και η αναγκαστική ενασχόληση με τα - ευχάριστα - έθιμα της χαμένης του πατρίδας.
They are strong, good people; people of noble birth who are willing to dedicate their lives to saving the world.It was also fun reading about the relationship between Suian and Moiraine.
Suian and Moiraine both made something of themselves, and I don't think the world could have made it to the Last Battle without them.And, you can't forget Lan in all of this.
Lan is a quiet, steady, and strong force for good, a person the Light needs desperately.These three characters, Moiraine, Suian, and Lan, are fast becoming some of my most favorite characters.
Thought I'd better read this prequel before finishing the last book in the Wheel Of Time series, especially because I feel like it's important to know how Moiraine, Lan and Siuan started out and how they met etc.This was a great story overall, helped mostly by the fact that Siuan and Moiraine are brilliant characters through and through.
Would've loved to see more of The White Tower a bit later up the timeline, the process of Siuan becoming The Amyrlin Seat in particular, but really this was focused on Moiraine and Lan so I'll take what we got of Siuan.
O livro mostra Moiraine e Siuan como aceitas enquanto estudavam na Torre Branca para se tornarem Aes Sedai.
O livro nos trás bastante informação sobre as Aes Sedai e a Torre Branca, nos mostrando como Moiraine e Siuan eram quando Aceitas, ou seja, muito jovens e imaturas.
Não tinha empatia pelo futuro gaidin, mas na sua juventude isso se tornou possível, além de também conhecer seus sentimentos sobre a queda da antiga Malkier.No geral é um livro muito bom e, embora curto, não fica muito atrás dos outros livros da série e ele também nos apresenta mais informações sobre alguns personagens importantes para o desenrolar da trama.
"Only a fool believe women less dangerous than men, but women often seemed to think men fools when it came to women." Μια από τις καλύτερες φράσεις του βιβλίου.
Με έκανε να θυμηθώ μια ομιλία για fantasy και φεμινισμό όπου ο Robert Jordan θεωρήθηκε εχθρός του φεμινισμού.
Το Νew Spring είναι το βιβλίο όπου ουσιαστικά μαθαίνουμε την ιστορία της νεαρής Moiraine Damodred και του Lan Al'Madragoran.
Και φυσικά την δράση που και σε αυτό το βιβλίο είναι μοχλός ψυχαγωγίας.
Διαβάζοντάς το δεύτερη φορά όταν σκέφτομαι το New Spring σκέφτομαι ότι η τόλμη της Moiraine είναι αυτό που χρειάζεται κάποιος στη ζωή του για να πάει μπροστά.
This was the first time I read it before reading any of the other books in the series (I couldn't wait until January, I had to start getting my WoT on now, so I'm doing a complete re-read).
This isn't my favorite of the series by far, but I feel like it's a great addition nonetheless.
If you read it as an introduction to the series it will probably leave you feeling a little cold about the series overall, and furthermore, it gives away a lot that you don't / shouldn't find out until later in the series.
It isn't necessary to the overall story line, but is a worthwhile addition for big WoT fans likes myself.
Please note that there are some spoilers up through book 10 in the series.(view spoiler)[I really enjoyed seeing Moiraine and Siuan in their early days as close friends.
I also enjoyed seeing how Moiraine and Lan met, and learning exactly how and why he became her warder.In at least the first couple WoT books, I had always felt like there was a tiny bit of ambiguity about Moiraine.
Cadsuane has been a very ambiguous character in the main books also, although I’ve finally decided she’s probably one of the good ones.
This prequel wasn't about what I thought it was going to be, but it managed to be a fun read.My favourite part was seeing Moiraine and Siuan in their younger years, acting as only children can. A perfect contrast to the stern Aes Sedai we've come to love.I'm not sure how important the events in this book were to the overall series, but for character development I give it an A+.
Livro com POV da Moiraine? Não tem como ser ruim!Depois desse livro passei a gostar ainda mais da Ajah Azul. Agora não tenho mais dúvida sobre qual Ajah eu seria.E que venha o The Fires of Heaven! Torcendo pra que a Moiraine apareça mais. Senti falta dela no TSR.
