https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6400079-the-candle-in-the-wind
I remember studying this in class and it being pointed out that the timescale of these books is very clever: you start with bows and arrows in the early middle ages, with Arthur not being that far away in time from William the Conqueror, but by the end, there's cannons and Sir Thomas Malory.
Malory and White both talk about their constant love and so on as if it should excuse them, but neither of them make me believe it.
I just completed the final book from the Once and The Future King Series by TH White.
Nice ReadingI just completed the final book from the Once and The Future King Series by TH White.
Mordred, plays a very important part in here along with Arthur, Guinevere, Lancelot and the surviving Orkney faction.
Mordred, plays a very important part in here along with Arthur, Guinevere, Lancelot and the surviving Orkney faction.
Arthur is a great considerable personality.
Arthur is a great considerable personality.
A very interesting, memorable and a philosophically moving book.
A very interesting, memorable and a philosophically moving book.
I felt sad for Arthur, and thinking of the happy young Wart in the first book, I just can't help but feel sad for him.
I don’t understand how can a person love two people at a same time but even if it’s possible I think she shouldn’t betray Arthur.
If I didn’t read the other books of the once and future king, I don’t think I will hate Mordred this much.
Perhaps it’s because when I read the book, I can see him growing up, from the happy young Wart, to the great King of England.
Others have adequately described the context of the book within the series and so I will not waste your time by retelling it here.
The Candle in the Wind is my favorite of the "Once and Future King" series.
It's without the magic and fantasy I thrilled over in the first book in the series, The Sword in The Stone but is a more complete and complex work.
The Thomas Malory work Le Morte d'Arthur is a great story but not well told.
Thankfully T.H White has righted this wrong in the "Once and Future King" series.
This fourth and final part of The Once and Future King is definitely the best one.
This one actually made me emotional a couple of times.At this point, Arthur is decades into his reign; he, Lancelot, Guinevere, and Gawaine are old now, and the idea of the Round Table and turning Might towards doing good deeds is a faded dream.
So it's really quite a poignant story about lost dreams, conscience, the point of it all, and when noble hearts suffer under ignoble ideas like the need for revenge and spitefulness.This is also a love story.
Actual rating 4.5 I AM NOT CRYING YOU ARE. I am very emotional when it comes to Arthur and this whole series in general and just all Arthurian things are always going to put me into the depths of despair. This series is so nostalgic for me and I am so happy I decided to re-read this series this year. On to the Book of Merlyn and then I am done *cries over Arthur forever*
This whole set was amazing. You can see the influences in almost every piece fantasy and a ton of non fantasy literature. Its witty and thoughtful and dramatic. I almost want to reread it again now because there’s so many great small elements to it.
Lovers grown carelesstheir king will always be justeven when it hurts.
Once Mordred has brought their transgressions to public, Lancelot flees and promises to rescue Guinevere.He does rescue Guinevere from the pyre, but not before accidentally killing Gareth and Gaheris, brothers to Gawaine and Agravain, in the battle.
Sadly, their battle could’ve been avoided and would’ve been avoided, but a miscommunication ended in the death of Mordred and Arthur being mortally wounded and sent to Avalon (where he probably died, but could have possibly been healed, as well).I think I appreciated this book most of all because it just so tragic.
Lancelot and Guinevere's half-century of cuckin' the goddamn ONCE AND FUTURE KING is exposed, and Mordred hits the scene to be as unlikable as possible.
Imagine Ramsay Bolton with an eating disorder and that's Mordred.
Sword in the Stone was almost a children's book, as was the Witch in the Woods, but then the Ill-Made Knight and this one bust out this convoluted, detailed romantic subplot with all this betrayal and these sudden tangential contemplations of the philosophy of love.
When he's in the book, White uses him as a clownish mouthpiece to explore his own navelgazings vis-a-vis evolution, psychology, philosophy, and any other high-bred academic pursuit that might come to mind.
Este libro ha hecho que recupere la adicción que le tenía a esta saga, pues el anterior, “El caballero malhecho”, tenía un ritmo bastante lento.“Una vela al viento” me ha parecido el libro más adulto del ciclo (por el momento, pues todavía me falta por leer la quinta parte).
Pero, como dice el propio autor, los mejores episodios de las grandes historias sólo se pueden contar bien una vez y eso ya lo hizo Thomas Mallory, así que me tendré que leer “La muerte del rey Arturo”.También tengo muchas ganas de leer “El libro de Merlín”, la quinta parte de la saga que se publicó póstumamente.
Throughout this book, I did not feel any sympathy at all towards Lancelot because I thought: no matter what, his whole thing with Guenever is completely gross and betraying to his best friend, Arthur.
I’d like to go back and talk about something I found really interesting in the book at the end of ch.3 when Guenever and Lancelot were looking at the improved England, which was actually improved by Arthur himself when he came to the throne.
My prediction of future events is that they defeat Mordred, Arthur dies, and Lancelot rules England and becomes married to Guenever and Gawaine’s best friend.
由於懷特的這部「亞瑟王故事」，已經算是 N 次創作了，因此在這系列的最後一部小說中，亞瑟王是完全「默認」了王后和蘭斯洛兩人的姦情（呃……換個名詞，用「非婚姻愛情」可以嗎？）——我只能說懷特版的亞瑟在感情問題上，簡直跟「聖人」沒兩樣了。相應的，則是這兩位偷情的男女也都與綠巾國王擁有崇高的友情，這三人可以說是「多元成家」的模範呀。　所以為了將劇情安排回到傳統的「敗亡」，也就是亞瑟「萬不得己」要舉兵和好友蘭斯洛對戰，重點就不能擺在我們這群「凡夫俗子」的婚姻獨佔慾，而是要訴求到「血親復仇」這一項——因為蘭斯洛在拯救王后的過程時，亂軍中殺掉高文的三個同胞弟弟。為了維持法律，因此亞瑟只能帶領英格蘭和洛西安聯軍，渡海攻打蘭斯洛在大陸上的城堡，如此一來，故事才能觸發莫德雷的叛變。這部小說最後，停筆在回軍平叛的亞瑟王，與其私生子莫德雷即將展開最後一戰的前夜……　正如前面所說的，懷特版的這部《永恆之王》是作者自行的創作「偽史」，是將公元五到七世紀那段模糊不清的「傳說」，重新安插編整成為中世紀諾曼人征服英格蘭後的時空。在故事中，亞瑟王的角色與功蹟，是終結了混戰不已的封建中古英國。因此，《永恆之王》將亞瑟講成是「民法的建立者」，並且藉由亞瑟之口，表達出作者本人對於歷史上統治者的期盼。　就故事性而言，這四冊的小說之中，亞瑟王真正可以稱作主角的，或許只有一冊半而已（《石中劍》一冊，以及《空暗女王》半冊）。剩下來的這兩冊小說，真正可以算作主角的，早已被代換成了蘭斯洛——《風中燭》自然也不例外，所有冒險與談戀愛都由蘭斯洛來演，亞瑟再也不上場打架（連最終的父子決戰也沒了），只扮演鄧不利多在必要的時候出來講講智慧箴言。順著《永恆之王》的四本小說次序讀下來，只讓我覺得亞瑟的形象愈來愈模糊、蘭斯洛的存在愈來愈強烈。如果照作者的編寫方式，我覺得根本不用分四冊，只要拆成兩書即可︰《亞瑟變形記與英格蘭統一戰爭》和《蘭斯洛特傳奇》。　總而言之，這部小說並不「典型」，作品將作者個人的各種知識給統包進來，卻無法跟一般常見的作品題材（英雄冒險、歷史、風土、軍武、奇幻、愛情、……等等）有共同的閱讀觀感。
A melancholy, yet touching, end to White's masterful re-telling of the King Arthur story. The last chapter brought the entire saga to a fitting close, while not ending the story, but letting it live on (you'll need to read it to see what I mean). Highly recommended.
6/10
after reading this book, one almost wishes White would have rewritten the whole series again, to match it's literary quality
This cycle of books becomes more profound over several readings. Books to appreciate over and over again.
It is well-documented how he had an affair with Guinevere, but while reading this book, I realized that Lancelot stole more than Arthur's wife.
Meanwhile, Lancelot's character is full of complexities, and the reader likes him more and more as the story goes on.
This book obviously came out many years before "A Song of Ice and Fire," but it is hard for a modern reader not to make comparisons to "Game of Thrones." These two series actually have quite a bit in common, and I'm surprised that I haven't heard others mention that the story of King Arthur was one of the inspirations for George R.
We see his "sins come home to roost" as he says so many times.We see that man has good desires, but all men are imperfect.
The book was published in 1958 - and many of the themes relate directly to WWII.Arthur reflects on the crusades, the quests, and the sins he committed that led to the downfall of his kingdom.He recognizes that many things he designed to be used for good purposes, have come back to be his ruin."He had introduced the idea of total war.
The conspiracies, the betrayals, the killings, and the expulsions are all there pushing against the King (I love when T.H. White calls Arthur - England) and his faith in man and justice.
He isn't satisfied with making (or keeping rather) Lancelot, King A, Guinevere, and even Mordred locked up in the stale symbols they often become.
He wants to show the motives, the nuances of character that makes the reader LOVE these figures not because they symbolize things like bravery, chivalry, or justice ...
T.H. White started with a fantasy novel, but ended with an exploration of war, humanity, love, and hope.Look, I'm skeptical of fantasy novels.
The characters are much smarter and the book does away with the flood of humor White uses earlier in the series, instead amplifying the mood of certain destruction created at the end of The Ill Made Knight.
The large amount of anachronisms used by White in the earlier books is also absent in Candle in the Wind, making it a much easier read, without the necessity to think "Now, what point is the author trying to show by using this anachronism?".
The magical shape-shifting fantasy of The Sword in the Stone had given way to dissolution, Freudianism and ill-omened romance.
Thankfully, White proved me wrong.I love The Candle in the Wind even more than The Sword in the Stone.
White shifted my perspective of Arthur from pathetic cuckold to Right- (instead of Might-) hearted leader.
Here's Arthur at his lowest point:Perhaps man was neither good nor bad, was only a machine in an insensate universe--his courage no more than a reflex to danger, like the automatic jump at the pin-prick.
White grabbed me in the end.
White has done a wonderful job with the Legend of Arthur; the characters are wonderful and even though these books and stories are not all as exciting and action filled as each other, you must give credit where credit is due, it was not a tale that required just drama and suspense.
White's descriptions and language works wonderful and even on the duller aspects there is no doubt it was researched and expressed well.The Candle in the Wind begins pretty much with the rapid downfall of Arthur's Table and the ideal that created it.
I am glad I persevered through the harder parts of this series because the ending of this book, as sad as it made me was worth it.
Ya han pasado varios años después de los hechos ocurridos en el "Caballero Malhecho", tantos años así, que todos los personajes ya están en su ancianidad, incluso los más jóvenes están entrando en esta etapa de madurez pero que no pueden alcanzar la plenitud por seguir recordando los errores del pasado como es el caso de Mordred, el hijo de Arturo.Me encantaron varias cosas relatadas en esta última parte de la historia de Camelot, especialmente aquel profundo lazo de hermandad entre los Orkney, y el enorme sentido de justicia, bondad, sinceridad del anciano Rey Arturo.
The Candle in the Wind is the fourth and sort-of-final book in T.H. White’s Arthurian mega-book The Once and Future King, since the very final instalment The Book of Merlyn was published separately and posthumously.
It deals with the final stages of King Arthur’s life, as Lancelot and Guinevere’s affair is exposed and the Arthur is reluctantly forced to pursue violent justice against them.I feel this series dropped in quality considerably beyond its opening volume, but The Candle in the Wind is probably the strongest book since then.
It's not quite as fun as the first book, but it's an extremely readable and loving rendition of the old story.There is one chapter which really trips for me, in this book, and it's the one close to the beginning in which he goes on and on about the world Guenever and Lancelot can see from the window, and what exactly is happening, and how people live.
This was at points challenging to read because I know how the story ends...and I dreaded reliving the sadness and strain.
At the same time, there is a lot of good philosophical insight in "The Candle in the Wind".
It becomes clear these books were written for a teenage or adult audience willing to think about choices and government.
I would say that the philosophical aspects make these books worth the time investment.
I would suggest reading something distinctly happy before and after this series.
Note: This text brings the first three books together but doesn't complete the story of Arthur.
Like "The Ill-Made Knight", this book seems to be almost a commentary on Malory's work, though with a bit more of a focused narrative.
The characters were compelling and so very human.Beyond the narrative, White's commentary on medieval history and and culture and of 20th century culture was also very interesting and, I think, good to read.
We too often look down on the medieval period as being characterized by war and violence, and White suggests that our culture has not grown up enough - and yet there is hope, and this in goodness, nobility, and truth.
What an amazing book, especially after the build-up first three!
I liked this last book of the Once and Future King Quartet.
It had more action, more dialogue, and a focused plot.
However, it also had more philosophizing and more unnecessarily detailed descriptions.
One entire chapter was just descriptions of the types of people you might encounter in the Middle Ages.
No plot whatsoever in the entire chapter!
So I basically skipped all the liberal sermonizing about the state of the human race, and only read the actual storyline.
It was interesting to see the differences in Arthur, Guinevere, and Lancelot in their old age.
