https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/165185.Six_of_One
From 1909 to 1980, Cora Hunsenmeir and her daughters Julia Ellen and Louise live, love, fight, make up, and generally enjoy themselves hugely, often to the detriment of though never at the expense of their fellow-travelers and employers Celeste Chalfonte, Ramelle Bowman, and Fannie Jump Creighton, that horny old dipsomaniacal hussy.
{That's a quote.}) It was clear to me that this was a road map, a way to live my life, if I could just...Well, I never could, darn it, but the book lost none of its impact for all that.
Characters like this are a real pleasure to discover.
I wish that Rita Mae Brown would write more books like this one. I think this one is her best, although I am very fond of her early Sneaky Pie Brown books.The narrative switches back and forth from the 1920's to the 1980. There is humor, sadness, but above all friendship. I really enjoyed this book, unlike the ones she's written the the last 3-4 years or so.
Not good, not bad. I loved the character development, and the story itself was interesting enough. It just wasn't one of those books that I feel the need to get back to when I wasn't reading it.
I adore these Runnymede books and intend to read them all. As #1 in the series, this was a wonderfully enjoyable read.
I laughed so hard -- during a scene that involved a handbag -- that I woke up my neighbours in the apartments beside and above mine.
We all piled onto my bed (a single) and read that one scene back and forth to each other until we were doubled over and fit only to pass out.
Back to bed we all went, and for the rest of that summer, we went out of our way to waggle the words "Fanny" and/or "handbag" into every conversation -- especially when we were with people who hadn't read the book.
I'm a sucker for this book, which I reread after a decade and still loved. I picked it up because I wanted a book that would, cheesy as it sounds, fill my heart with inspiration and joy. And of course, lots of laughs as quirky women live life to the fullest in a small town."Everything is possible. Pass the word."
Great depiction of southern women. I know, I grew up with them.
One of the funniest books I've ever read. It's just so lovely.
On a lurk before a break, I ran to the library to find books for my vacation.
After realizing it was a series, I thought why not?
I didn't realize the "newer" series was first written in 1978.It was tough at first getting use to the language of the early 1900s and southern dialect and idioms.
As a history teacher, I was intrigued by how "racy" the book's characters would have been for their time.
The book walks you through the major events of 1905 to the 1950s, with the future being the 1980s.
This lovely book is an exercise in character study.
Just as the Virgina side and the Baltimore side are in a constant little friendly battle, so are the sisters Louise and Julia Ellen.
The story starts in 1980, with two old lady's and Julia's grown daughter Nichole.
The book follows these women through a half century, showing us snippets of their lives, occasionally flipping back to the 1980 storyI recommend this sweet story to almost any woman.
One of the many stories that thread through this book, is the beautiful enduring love story of two beautiful women.
This is an okay book.
Most of the characters are fun and the town seems just crazy enough to be a very interesting place to live without driving YOU crazy but at the end I was left feeling a bit...what was the point?
I don't really care for Louise although it feels like we focus on her and Julia a good portion of the time.
We hit most of the characters and with there being as many as there are and the jumping back and forth in time, I found myself being a bit confused at time and struggling to remember who some of the non-main characters were.
This novel chronicles the lives of a group of brave, beautiful, unconventional women whose lifelong friendship sees them through three quarters of the 20th century. As their world changed around them, they endured hardship and loss but always found a way to cope and carry on, leaning on the friendships that are strengthened over many years and finding joy in every day pleasures.
I normally like books by this author but she has a quirk in her style that bothers me. Hard to describe but I shouldn't have read it after "Cry Me a River" by Pearson because his style is so smooth and flowing. The characters in this book are fun and the setting is interesting and so is the plot. Most people would enjoy it, I think.
This is actually a solid 4 1/2 stars.Loved the characters and the plot.Interesting but well defined time line that was easier and more enjoyable to follow than most that jump between different periods.Time to add the series to the list.
A little loopy and disjointed but definitely enjoyable.
An early book by Brown. Great fun. Great unique voice. Not Appalachian to be classified as Appalachian fiction. Definitely Southern. Wonderful cast of off-beat characters worthy of a second look.
This book is like sunshine.
I had high hopes for this book. A few years ago I read a sequel to this and really enjoyed it. This however was dull and unnecessarily crude.
The easy, often biting, always witty dialogue in this book reminds me of the back-and-forth (I think between Dorian and the Duchess of Monmouth, but I'm awful at remembering character names) in Oscar Wilde's The Picture of Dorian Gray.Brown has an impressive ability to show the deep love between Louise and Juts through their harsh words and actions towards one another.
I'm not as close with anyone in my family as Louise and Juts are, but the dynamic is a familiar one.My favorite quotes in this book are all from Celeste.
The only thing I don't love is that the characters don't seem to develop much over time.
I read "Cake Walk" first and I loved the characters.
I couldn't wait to read more books about them.
So I had my library find the book at another library and request it.
I was excited to start the book but then I was soon disappointed.
First there were major difference between the characters in "Cake Walk" and "Six of One": When Pearlie came to town, Ramelle and Curtis being married, Louise and Julie's mortal enemies and the tone of the characters.The jumping back and forth in time left out a lot of information.
I hope the other books about Runningmede much better then this book.
I picked this book for our January 2009 book club meeting, and thankfully, I ended up loving the book.
Celeste thought of justice or, more precisely, the lack of it.
Most of our lives we drug ourselves with the delights of the future.
Remember what the White Queen said: 'The rule is, jam tomorrow and jam yesterday -- but never jam today'?" "I fail to see what jelly or jam has to do with Fairy hightailing it to Berlin.
Few have the strength to live in it.
Dear Fairy summoned all her courage.

This book covers a lifetime and is just amazing.
My mom loves Rita Mae Brown and I do have to say that she is an awesome wordsmith.Now, I chose this for the Wriyers Read Too genre reading challenge as my LGBT book because I wanted something that was light on all of the issues.
I have to say that this matched perfectly for what I was looking for.
It featured a lesbian couple, had a Bi character as the narrator, and had touches of gay characters.
It also had awesome heterosexual characters.
In short, it was life and I loved it.
This is the first book in the series about the Hunsenmeir sisters, who live in the town of Runnymede, Pennsylvania/Maryland, right on the Mason-Dixon line. Louise and Julia Ellen (Juts), both born in the early years of the 20th century, are feisty rivals from the day Juts (the younger sister) was born. This first book traces their rivalry from their early years and introduces the reader to the colorful members of their community.Because I like Brown's Mrs. Murphy cat mysteries, I decided to try this series. I wasn't disappointed. Try it if you like stories about small Southern towns.
Read this for my book group, otherwise I wouldn't have selected it.It's a series of scenes about a group of mostly female friends and relatives in an American town.It spans from the second decade of the last century to the 1980's and includes a couple of scenes from both world wars.Interesting to read the American perspective.The characters are lively and distinct. The scenes are memorable, touching, just hilarious and philosphical.A feel good book that I can recommend.
What a delightful trip through the lives of two sisters who are constantly fighting, but love each other dearly. The novel is set in a fictional town of Runnymede that straddles the Mason-Dixon line. We get to follow the often hilarious escapades of some very memorable characters. I wanted to visit Runnymede and revisit the characters. The characters do return in two subsequent novels, but sadly, I could not find Runnymede on Google Maps.
This book was incredible. I cried for the last 3 hours I was reading it. The relationships and caliber of women in this book are to be aspired to. Somewhat in the line of Anne Tyler's Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant except way better. Can't wait to read more of this series.
I think that this book was supposed to debunk the myth of intolerance of the small town. Thus this small town lovingly embraces sexual diversity, sibling rivalry that slips into violence, infidelity, murder, and more. The characters are all so endearing!! Or not. Of course I did smile at some of the foolishness, but more often than not I was asking myself, "Really?"
A novel of strong, colorful women in Runnymeade VA in the early 20th century. Though contrived at points, the novel is an authentic and touching portrait of human relationships. In many ways a typical Brown fiction, the people and their lives are worth knowing. This book has two sequels, and I will read them.
Read it years ago. Someone had given it to my mom to read. She was mid another book so I borrowed this. Loved it. Had me wondering what this other woman had in mind when she gave it to my mom;) She was a sophisticated New Yorker, likely trying to stimulate conversation with someone in her new more rural home. This book would surely accomplish that:)
