https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/450573.The_Odd_Couple
Το κλασικό αυτό θεατρικό έργο, που αποτελεί τη βάση για την ομότιτλη ταινία του 1968, με πρωταγωνιστές τους Jack Lemmon και Walter Matthau, είναι μόλις το πρώτο κωμικό έργο που διαβάζω, μιας και όλα τα υπόλοιπα θεατρικά ήταν είτε αλληγορίες είτε δράματα.
Ε, όσο να'ναι, ήθελα να διαβάσω κάτι για να μου φτιάξει το κέφι και το συγκεκριμένο θεατρικό έργο το κατάφερε, και με το παραπάνω.
ταιριαστός, μιας και πρωταγωνιστούν δυο τύποι, πρόσφατα χωρισμένοι από τις γυναίκες τους, που το έφερε η μοίρα να συγκατοικήσουν μαζί στο σπίτι του ενός.
Κάτι μου λέει ότι μπορεί να την ευχαριστηθώ περισσότερο και από το βιβλίο!
I had to read a story (Diversity Challenge) published in the year that I was born. What a great audiobook. Nathan Lane was Oscar Madison, he was hilarious.
Odd couple, عنوان یک: «زوج عجیب، نمایشنامه»؛ نوشته: «نیل سایمون (۱۹۲۷)»؛ مترجم: «الهه مشتاق»، نشر: «تهران، نیلا، ۱۳۸۴، در 72 ص.»، شابک: 964-857323-9، کتاب حاضر تحت عنوان «زوج ناجور» با ترجمه: «شهرام زرگر»، توسط همین ناشر چاپ شده است. عنوان دیگر: «زوج ناجور نمایشنامه»، موضوع: نمایشنامه آمریکایی--  قرن ۲۰م.عنوان دو: «زوج ناجور، نمایشنامه»، نوشته: «نیل سایمون (۱۹۲۷)»؛ ترجمه: «شهرام زرگر»، نشر: «تهران، نیلا، چاپ نخست ۱۳۸۴، در 72 صفحه»، فروست: «قلمرو هنر؛ ۹۳:، شابک: 964-8573-22-0، موضوع: نمایشنامه آم
Odd couple, عنوان یک: «زوج عجیب، نمایشنامه»؛ نوشته: «نیل سایمون (۱۹۲۷)»‏؛ مت‍رجم: «الهه مشتاق»، نشر: «ت‍ه‍ران، نیلا، ۱۳۸۴، در 72 ص.»، شابک: 964-857323-9، کتاب حاضر تحت عنوان «زوج ناجور» با ترجمه: «شهرام زرگر»، توسط همین ناشر چاپ شده است. ‏عنوان دیگر: «زوج ناجور نمای‍ش‍ن‍ام‍ه»، ‏موضوع: نمایشنامه آمریکایی-- ‏‫ قرن ۲۰م.عنوان دو: «زوج ناجور، نمایشنامه»، نوشته: «نیل سایمون (۱۹۲۷)»؛ ترجمه: «شهرام زرگر»، نشر: «تهران، نیلا، چاپ نخست ۱۳۸۴، در 72 صفحه»، فروست: «قلمرو هنر؛ ۹۳:، شابک: 964-8573-22-0، موضوع: نمایشنامه آمریکایی-- ‏‫ قرن ۲۰م‏
Hilarious. Seriously, I laughed until I was thrown out of the living room. This Neil Simon is the funny Neil Simon.
THE ODD COUPLE. (1966). Neil Simon. ***.This was Simon’s breakthrough play – not because the play itself was outstanding, but because Simon stumbled upon the creation of two characters that resonated with American audiences. We have seen these two men – the Odd Couple – in numerous subsequent situations on the silver screen and on TV. They have become iconic characters in American drama. This play? Meh.
Comedic and fun, this play has great moments of levity and the characters are excellently defined through their dialogue. One of the first plays I've ever read and convinced me to read a lot more of them.
A play about how a friendship can be as intimate and infuriating as a marriage.(Note 1: I definitely have a real estate fetish. All I kept thinking was, "Damn, how did Oscar score an eight-room apartment in New York City?!")(Note 2: Gwendolyn and Cecily - that's a tip of the hat to Oscar Wilde, yes?)
Since I've been going through the highest recommendations I've received from friends and critics and I've waited to read this play for a long time and...
Yeah, I really like it.The Odd Couple is about Oscar, a slob who's living on his own since his divorce years ago, and Felix, a neat freak who has just gone through his divorce.
And the two don't get along well, needless to say, and it leads to many antics and ridiculous gags.I love the amount of control Neil Simon exerts with his characters in this play.
I throughly enjoyed this play, my initial reaction was an absurd, ironic, well put together comedic play.
Neil even makes many allusions to Oscar Wilde as the two women Oscar and Felix date are named Gwendolyn and Cecily, a direct similarity to Wildes play The Importance of Being Ernest.
I also thought it was intentional to name the main character Oscar, after Oscar Wilde because they do reflect each other in many ways personally wise.
This play was marvelously written and one I would recommend to anyone in the future to read.
'Neil Simon Drew Big Laughs, Then Came a Cultural Shift.' Ran an article in The New York Times, perfectly encapsulating what he did with this play.
Times were different when this play debuted to rapturous hilarity, as history notes so well.
While there are some classic straight-from-text jokes in the play, much of the humour depends on insinuation.
Even back in the day, one can imagine the suppression of laughs at the innocuous portrayal of 'The Odd Couple.' Now, one could say that there is nothing funny about the play, or rather that there shouldn't be something funny about two men living together.
Neil Simon's female version of The Odd Couple (with Olive and Florence instead of Oscar and Felix) is actually even funnier than the original!
With a more refined script/jokes and some added dimensions to Olive's and Florence's friendship as female best friends, the Female Odd Couple is everything you loved about the original and more.
The group of girl friends themselves are a dynamic, colorful bunch, and Florence and Olive's friendship is touching in an entirely different way from Oscar's and Felix's, though the contrasting personalities shenanigans are just as funny.
(especially the Female Version)
It's rare for me to laugh out loud while reading a play/book/etc...
I can often recognize the humor in the text and appreciate it, but this play had me giving voice to my elation.
As I imagined actors running about a stage, yelling at one another, throwing these and the fantastic timing of lines, I couldn't help but laugh like I was there in the audience.
I would love to see a production of this and would love even more to play in it!
(cause that is what it would be: play.)
A three act play telling the story of what happens when neat freak Felix is kicked out of his house by his wife and stays with happy go lucky, slovenly Oscar.
Written originally in 1960, the dynamic has seeped its way into modern culture.
One can draw a line from this original play to most mix matched characters on TV, book and film since.
(Lethal Weapon came to mind).
The writing is smart, snappy and very witty.
Character's traits are established quickly through accounts of themselves via other characters.
Recommend for any fan of modern literature or playwriting.
¡Esta obra es genial! Me costó bastante trabajo reírme durante todo el texto ya que ambos protagonistas son esencialmente diferentes, es posible empatizar con uno y no con el otro, pero ya que entiendes a ambos personajes, la comedia se revela como lo que es: una genial historia de amor, de amistad, de maduración y responsabilidad.El autor es uno de los pocos que ha tenido cuatro de sus obras interpretadas de manera simultánea en Broadway, y esta es una de ellas. Vale mucho la pena.
I'm thinking in terms of staging for high schoolers and an all-ages audience.Pros: wide range of emotions for the main characters; simple set; could easily be double cast; enough humor to balance out the tragic parts; no long monologues; opportunity to develop physical comedy; female leadsCons: would need to edit out the suicide stuff, which is far too glib; would likely need to edit out some of the sex stuff too; might be on the short side of running time
This one was not one of my favorites, which was a bit surprising to me because it's probably the Neil Simon play I've heard of the most. It was fun and quick, and it had its moments, but I didn't connect as much with the characters or plot. The conceit of the poker game felt, to me, like it slowed the story down and added extra weight--surprising because Simon is usually so good at jumping right into the action and not providing unnecessary backstory or slow context.
For a comedy, the first scene is a little dark with all the talk of suicide. I'm not one who thinks suicide is something to joke about. Probably a director could make the rest of the jokes funnier. The situation is humorous, and it would be a fun play to see, but I've read other plays I liked better.
Its hard to go wrong with this famous setup - the fastidious roomate vs the slob. Then add Neil Simon's ability to drop in the funny lines and its a winner. Better than the TV show, which was great too. Enjoyed it.
The dialogue in this one is slick. The first two acts are full of off the wall colourful characters. I know this can be funny with the right actors but it is still two dimensional. I don't know who These two men are. It's well written fluff.
One of the funniest plays ever and a terrific read. If you like the movie and tv show, go back to the original source and check out the play. And try to imagine Art Carney, Ed Norton himself as Felix playing to Walter Matthau’s Oscar.
This play is comedy gold. It has so many contemporary comedic monologue possibilities for women and would highly recommend this play.
The audiobook version has Nathan Lane reading for Oscar, and anything with Lane is automatically 2x as entertaining. A classic comedy.
Laugh out loud funny. I saw a local civic theater production of this and borrowed the script off of one of the actors. I had to read it.
So good, esp in a park with friends and chardonnay.
Actual Rating: 3.5I didn't like this play quite as much as others, but it was still enjoyable. I've found that comedies are not typically my style, but The Odd Couple definitely impressed me.
I got very desperate housewives/sex in the city vibes. some comedic moments (especially with the two men) but, on the whole, wasn't too impressed with the script.
It is very entertaining, but it doesn't have much of an ending.
Great idea as a slob and a compulsive cleanliness freak have to room together.
I read the female version of the play - I found the characters really well written, and the dialogue subtly comedic. Would love to see this performed!
This is the funniest play I've ever read. I love other plays by Neil Simon but this one takes the cake. It has a super funny plot line and is very relatable. I would recommend this to anyone who is a fan of comedic plays. It is a little slow at the beginning but that's okay.
