https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1396806.In_Praise_of_Older_Women
The dedication reads:"This book is dedicated to older womenand is addressed to young men--and the connection between the two is my proposition."And the quote from Benjamin Franklin goes:"In all your amours you should prefer oldwomen to young ones...because they havegreater knowledge of the world."An autobiographical work, the author was a young Hungarian boy during the second world war, participated during the Hungarian Revolt (against the Soviets) in 1956, emigrated to Canada to escape communist persecution, became a professor in a Toronto university, and wrote this book after observing young Canadians falter at love and the mating game.Well-written, often funny and occasionally profound.
You only go around once in life, and you've got to grab for all the gusto you can get (and I don't mean Schlitz).The sex is good, too.
Tame by today's standards, certainly, but Vizinczey's wholehearted endorsement of physical pleasure and extramarital dalliances without guilt is such a contrast to the tormented and prurient sex scenes written by Saul Bellow or Philip Roth in the same era!
At one point his alter ego pauses to comment on the war of the sexes: "I am a pacifist," he says.
For the months I was away, I hadn’t been able to concentrate on reading myself, but I was anxious to write again.
“This book is addressed to young men and dedicated to older women…” he writes in the preface.
That may be the author’s lesson when he recommends the charms of older women to young men.
If I had only known when I was younger how difficult and painful it was for young men “to get any,” I like to think I would have been more accommodating and open to experimentation.
Μακριά από τις "Γυναίκες" του Τσινάσκι μεν, αλλά δίνει την δύναμη της σαρκικής έλξης πέρα των κοινωνικών αναστολών
An excellent book. In Praise of Older Women is sexy without being sexist, warm and funny. It has a European sophistication and worldliness without being dry. Vizinczey has a positive attitude in spite of describing going through horrific situations like fleeing the Nazi, participating in the attempted revolution against the Soviets in 56 and becoming a refugee, leaving behind his family and friends. This should be a cult classic that young people read as eagerly as Salinger or Kerouac.
For Andras, older women are a medium to learn not only about the bodily pleasures but about life as well.
The other sex is ever so mysterious and women are presented in their various avatars, whose initial company provide self-confidence and a sort of warmheartedness to young Andras.
He just tells it the way it is, as he explores the various aspects of his own self "through" women.
I want to believe that there are great truths hidden in this book, but I can't.
Sex is about life".Moreover, Vizinczey's was the most finely tuned, charming prose I have read in a long time.
Each one of the book's series of women are rendered in surface details only, none of them leaving any lasting impressions once you've finished reading.
I think the book actually summarizes its faults, unintentionally, better than I can: "The result was like driving in a speeding car through a beautiful landscape: I had an impression of all the exciting hills and valleys, contours and colours, but I was moving too fast to be able to take a good look."
It's hard to believe that I now fit in Andras Vadja's definition of the "older woman" (30s and 40s).....This is a lushly erotic book that still manages to provide several coy refusals.
Just like the experiences cataloged in the amorous recollections of Andras Vadja.
It is an engrossing story of a young man growing up among older women; learning to love and to make love from older women...and doing it while going through war and revolution and personal discovery.
The book ends with the line: "But the adventures of a middle-aged man are another story." This novel makes me wish he had told that one as well.
وهكذا فعل مصممو بوسترات الأفلام التي تأسست على الرواية.اقتبسات"ثمة جاذبية لا تقاوم بالنسبة لي في تعابير عري المرأة عندما تكون مرتدية كامل لباسها" 76"الصدور الصغيرة مؤثرة مثل الكبيرة طالما لا ترتدي المرأة صدرية" 88"ثمة نشوة خاصة في اللمسة الطفيفة للشفاه الجافة غير المستعدة" 97"لكي يكون المرء ناجحاً مع النساء, ينبغي أن ينفر ويهرب منهن" 98"كانت بوبي في الرابعة والثلاثين والنظر إليها متعة عظيمة, خاصة في لباس السباحة البكيني الأزرق, صدرها مدهش وأردافها تهتز لدرجة كثيراً ما شعرت برغبة في قطعها وأخذها معي إلى البيت" 110"يقال إن الفتاة صاحبة المخيلة الخصبة قادرة على المشاركة في جماع جماعي حتى مع رجل واحد" 130"لما كان الحب لمحة عاطفية من الخلود, لا يسع المرء سوى نصف الإيمان بأن الحب الحقيقي خالد إلى الأبد" 163"في الحب نرفض التمييز بين الأخلاقي وغير الأخلاقي مفضلين التمييز بين الأصيل والسطحي" 164"هل تعلمين أن واحداً من أكثر عبارات التحبب الشائعة في اللغة الهنغارية هي جسدي الحلو, لا أحد يشعر بالعار لقول ذلك.
If you like the English language, if you like sex, and if you like Hungary (no particular order here), this is your book.
I read a few pages once while browsing in a bookshop. Maiden aunts, stay well clear.
I'm not an expert on sex, but I was a good student of the women I loved, and I'll try to recall those happy and unhappy experiences which, I believe, made a man out of me.”And I think he beautifully argues his proposition, without being to preachy about it.
Besides the great character progression over the book the compassion, love and respect shown to fellow human beings is just great to read and gives at least me a warm fuzzy feeling inside.
So it's definitely a good read for one of those days where you need to have your faith in humanity restored.
I'm pleased to see that it's still available, in several editions, because it's a delightful book--witty, self-deprecating, socially astute, politically informative and impressively erotic.
Nevertheless the author succeeds brilliantly in conveying the sexual yearning of his younger self (or his alter-ego), as well as the general complexities of desire.The book begins during the narrator's childhood in pre-WWII Budapest.
The primary lesson of the memoir is clear in the dedication:"This book is dedicated to older women and is addressed to young men--and the connection between the two is my proposition."Wonderfully literate and deliciously sexy!
Ce que j'aimerais savoir est ceci: Andras est-il Stephen ou ce personnage est totalement fictif?Aussi incroyablement variées et passionnantes que ces aventures elles restent proches de la nature humaine, si véridiques et si agrémentées de détails infimes qui vous font croire en leurs véracités.Les femmes, d'un éventail d'âge assez large et étendu, des adolescentes pré-pubères aux vieilles presque séniles, dont la plupart témoignent d'une ardeur et d'une féminité sans égal, sont vicieuses, langoureuses ou candides. Certaines sont même sadiques ou schizophrène...et on adore ça!Pour résumer, très éducatif et lourd de sens.
In Praise of Older Women is delightful. I thoroughly enjoyed Stephen Vizincezey's charming tale and his joy and praise for women. I found myself smiling and laughing as I read along with his adventures. This is a man I would love to meet! If you're looking for a light and fun escape from the world, open and read this classic! You won't be disappointed.
More than a book about women, 'In Praise of Older Women' is about war and changing landscapes, about war and the social relationships it harbors. Underneath it all, it is the story of a boy growing up amidst the company of older women. It is different from a proustian recollection but equally potent and beautiful. I regret not having read this book sooner. Highly recommended for both sexes.
I wish I would have found this book when I was 16. This journey of a young man discovering and exploring his sexuality is both humorous and tragic. Mostly, this book offers a glimpse into the human experience and struggles of relating to others sexually.
A lot of fun and the kind of book I wish I had read earlier, at, let's say, around 16? Contains immense respect and love towards humans, especially women. And it's fun!Recommended for: people who visit Reddit's redpill, so they can see what they're missing, stuck in their weird worldview.
A well written bildungsroman of a Hungarian man and his troubled entrance into the sexual arena - I loved the distant gaze of the main character and his descriptions of sex, war and emotional intrigue ring totally true. Not a word wasted either - always a good thing.
Die deutsche Übersetzung ist leider viel lebendiger als das englische Original. Vizinczey hat es ein bischen zu ernst genommen mit der Knappheit.
But then, later on, the author / narrator decides that women are there merely to be taken, and finds ridiculous the idea that a woman might not merely want to be seen as a potential conquest.More disturbing, some of the episodes of 'seduction' read, quite frankly, like rape.
I do not think that any sane person, now, can describe as 'seduction' the events near the end of the book, where a woman says 'no', our hero pushes her up against a bed, pulls her blouse off, nuzzles her breasts, pushes her onto the bed, then penetrates her.
Did not finish. I like reading memoirs that are "authentic". The prevalence of personally shameful events can be a good indicator. This book passes this test in the initial stages. The problem is i'm not enjoying the personality of the writer. I don't like him and I have no interest in hearing about his sexual escapades which are the entirety of the book. The writing also falls flat. The awkward, sexy and degrading are all rolled up into a single monotone. Would have likely been 2-3 stars.
I have been putting this review off for too long, but what can I really say about this book?It was decent and could have been amazing.
I could even see if it was just random moments of a life pursuing older women but he doesn't even do that in all the chapters.Parts made me smile.
Parts made me envious of young men who have the opportunities to read this while still young men.
Parts made me angry because they could have been so much better if Vizinczey would have just focused and expanded the narrative to include something more.
A melancholy romp, for what of a better term, through a young man's shagging exploits as he turns from boy to adult. It wasn't just skin deep and I enjoyed the twin narrative of post-war Hungary and communism. At around 200 pages it was a perfect length too (ooh err).
.في مديح النصوص الجميلة كحلم مشتهي
Jedna lepa knjiga.
There is also, though he himself seems unaware of it, the sense that Vizinczey falls in love with women for the challenge they pose: he chases after the unattainable ones and obsesses over unrequited loves.In the end, as in Kundera, this is a world ruled by sex precisely because sex represents the love in peace, love and understanding, and because that love seems to bring peace and understanding with it, or at least the hope of them.I would say that someone should do a study on the importance and the experience of sex in war time, but really I've no doubt this has been done many times over.
Perché fin dalle prime pagine mi conquista la leggerezza di linguaggio dell'autore, seppur d'inizio secolo scorso, ironico nel trattare ciò che ho sempre sostenuto, ovvero: il sesso è uno strumento per conoscere il vasto mondo degli umani.“Visto che mi accingo a scrivere le mie esperienze, vorrei rassicurare il lettore che non intendo sopraffarlo con la mia storia personale.
Questo ELOGIO DELLE DONNE MATURE, percorso per tutta la sua lunghezza da una sottile vena di ironica praticità, conclude controbilanciando con l'amarezza della ormai sopraggiunta età matura.
This book turns out to be a fictional memoir rather than a true account of growing up in post-war Hungary but it still served as a good way of getting to feel what it might have been like to live in Hungary. I can't quite remember how I came to learn about this book but it was recommended as a good book about Hungary. While it may not have told me quite as much as I was hoping about Budapest in the 1950s and 60s it was certainly entertaining and possibly educational too!
Assuming it was televised a few years after it hit the big screen then I would have been around 15 when I first saw it.That date is crucial, I think, in terms of how I viewed the movie; but today's date in terms of finishing the book at the age of 47 is also important.
Which is a roundabout way of saying that whilst I enjoyed this read the work seems slight in comparison to how I remembered and enjoyed the movie.But it is a quick, easy novel with some insights into the sexual mores of the time it was written, some interesting political background, and some musings of the eternal battles and frustrations of the sexes.
