https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6644117-the-iron-king
The Iron King is a book about a sixteen year old girl, Meghan Chase.
She soon discovers she has deeper ties to fairy than she'd originally thought.The Iron King, like many modern day fairy tales, tries to adhere to old school fairy myths yet still manages to balls up and humanize certain fairies with all the eagerness a coming of age book about a sixteen year old on a magical adventure CAN balls up and humanize fairies.
I will read the next book in this series but only because it left off on a little bit of a cliff hanger and I want to find out what happens next.*shakes fist*Emo Fairy wants your soul!
He adds an element of lightness to the serious feel of the novel, and his seemingly lighthearted stance is invaluable in helping Meghan keep her spirits up when things are fearful.Ash: Oh man, what a dreamboat.
But yes, if I’d had the shot, I would have taken it.”Their reluctant alliance and their growing feelings for each other are so gradual that I can't even recall the exact moment when Meghan falls for Ash...or hell, when I fell for Ash.Grimalkin: I don't think I've ever met a talking cat I didn't like.
DNFI tried. I really, really tried.But this just wasn't my jam. I picked it up at least three different times and no dice. Onward!XXXXXXXXXWhen you are interested in a book by an author you've never read before......which is priced at $7.99...and you discover your library has it in ebook form for FREE.
After all, I wouldn't want to be responsible for giving my grandmother a heart attack and I certainly wasn't prepared to answer any questions that might arise from my children related to something they might hear in a dark romance novel.Since this series is aimed at a younger audience, it ended up being the perfect time to give it a listen.
I'm not sure that I could've found another series that would have worked as well for our group.The story centers on a high school girl, Meghan Chase.
It's narrated in first person point of view, through Meghan's eyes, and I found this great because she had a voice that was believable and easy to relate to.The thing I loved most about THE IRON KING was its multiple story lines.
Nope, her quest brings her from one plot to another, from one crisis to a new one, from one mission to the next.THE IRON KING has a more action and adventure feel to it, though that is not to say it didn't have romance.
The story wasn't just about faerie drama and court intrigue, although there was a good portion of that in the beginning, which was actually done in a superb way.
Seriously, absolutely NOTHING happening.Though, even after she meets Ash, she still gets creatures that try to kill her all over again and some new ones that try to save her.So basically, all the story in this book is the "world building" that was just over extensive because after the 100th creature I met, I didn't give a sh*t about any other and the more she saw the more I wanted to stop reading.Yeah, I have a problem but damn, I just couldn't take it.Another problem here is that she meets Ash at about (view spoiler)[...45 (hide spoiler)] %!!!!!!!!!!!Seriously?????????
Before everything else,I need to express my strong belief in the existence of fairies,because they would perish without our dreams and thoughts and hopes.I've got your back guys,I will not let you fade into oblivion!  "Yeah,Mom,Ethan’s turned into a monster and my best friend thinks he’s a faery.How was your day?"  As you can see,Meghan's life is not that simple.She used to be the girl that lived by the swamp,an outcast,until her 16th birthday,when a creature disguised as her little brother trie

I just can't help but admire Kagawa's writing style ♥_♥.And like every other young adult book - this one too has a love triangle.
The last 40% of the book i absolutely loved which is the reason i didn't give the first book less than 4 stars.P.s. everytime Ash and Puck argue or fight, it reminds me of this: ► STORY: Once upon a time, there was a normal girl.
But its so hard to believe in it - until he takes her to Nevernever, homeland to all Fey.For those who took interest in fey, then you heard of Seelie and Unseelie courts, some of the names like Mab, Oberon and Titania, the fairies' fear of iron and metal.
The plot is clusterfuck of cliches, the heroine - *someone get me a bag to retch in* - and the love interests are two barely distinguishable heaps of garbage.So, Meghan.
Attempted 👏 murder 👏 is 👏 NOT 👏 SEXY 👏👏👏.Meghan meets Ash, her love interest, for the first time and he tries to put an arrow through her face!!!
I'm really in love with vicious faeries though, so I was keen to finally dive into this although also wary that it might have a lot of tired, teeth-gritting tropes.
Who needs books with monsters?
I felt it sacrificed character development to have this high-speed pace.When the characters get to the kissing, I was like: "wait did u have feelings for each other...?
Meghan got more confident, but she barely had time for a nap or a handful of trail mix before being hurtled into the next death-defying situation and YEAH I love that.
Ohhh wait, there are more books....goodbye now I need to go read more.➸ Late to the party, but here to stay!
“Something was happening, something strange and creepy and terrifying, and the scariest part of all was that it wore a familiar, ordinary face.”  3 1/2 stars.While The Immortal Rules series is still Kagawa's winner for me so far, I was actually really pleasantly surprised by this book. Almost everyone I know picked up this series a few years back and I deliberately avoided it. YA paranormal with a love triangle? Yeah, no thank you. But I've been meaning to see if I was wrong ever since I reall
I admit that this story gets a little messy at times with the influx of every paranormal Fey-like creature imaginable, popping up one after the other and causing drama, but I think the series may have been finding its footing.My love for the characters started with Puck, whose sense of humour was EXACTLY the kind I love:
The only character that hasn't wowed me yet is Meghan herself, but it also took a while for me to like Allison in The Immortal Rules so hopefully the MC love will come later.As I said, this book is far from perfect; but it is enjoyable, fast-paced fantasy.
I sure as hell know what I would've chosen, but of course the main character, Meghan, thinks it's a great idea to leave a kid in the fae world for weeks and to risk her own life, instead of going for the most logical option.
I'm serious.First time they meet: Ash, aka the dark brooding prince of the Unseelie court: I want to kill you and your friend.Meghan: AHHH I'M SO SCARED!
But mainly hot.Second time they meet:Ash: I'm going to kill you.
I wonder what it'd be like to kiss him!!!Third time they meet:Ash: I'm going to kill you.
I don’t mind if you want to write a story with a “green” message, if you want to encourage people to value and protect nature, if you want to say the narrative equivalent of “yo, bro, you don’t seem to have noticed that pollution is bad.”But when you do that by literally killing the embodiment of the dream of human progress?Sweetie, we’re going to have issues.So let’s break down all the many ways this doesn’t work, shall we?
The more people imagine, the more the fairies are born/grow stronger/have magic/fuck the reader, because this book can’t decide which of those options it wants and doesn’t care enough to clarify.
I was sucked in from page one and loved the atmosphere Kagawa created.
While reading I felt like Alice in Wonderland because of all the wondrous creatures Meghan encountered on her journey.
I loved the secondary characters Puck and Grim (he reminded me of the Cheshire Cat) and I thought the whole Iron Fey idea was unique.
But the best thing about this book was Ash. I have to say, all my warning bells went off when I read about his raven-wing hair that tumbled down to his shoulders because, let’s face it, long hair and men?
I just think I might be getting too old and like grittier stories.
I think I prefer the author's Immortal Rules series, although I have only read the first one.There were a couple of little nit-picky things I won't even go into because they really didn't bother me that much.
I could have liked Meghan more, but it's an origin story, so there is plenty of room for growth and change.Buddy read with my MacHalo chicks.Previous post:Does this have an Alice in Wonderland vibe thing going on, or is it just me?Original post:Looks like everyone has already read this (but me).
However, it is another of those series that I wish had been around when I was 12, 13, 14 or so years old, because I would have been swooning and in love with this Fairytale for teenagers and YA.
Full of Fae of all sorts and the idea that Fairy lives as long as people dream of things, this book is nicely imaginative and I even think it would make a great Disney movie.
The 16 year old Megan and the two young men around her, her best friend Puck and the possible frenemy/love interest Ash, of the Winter Court, make for a potential love interest, but I am guessing that would develop later in the series.
Two boys, one girl, and an unknown enemy. Running away from one enemy only to barge into another enemy, this sure was fun.
First off, I’m a huge fan of “Fae” in general, especially love reading this type of story.
But at the same time, when it comes to book about fae there are a lot of similarities.
The Iron King has these elements, and yet...
Kagawa totally makes it her own thing.
Absolutely loved Meghan’s character.
Not to mention the absolutely compelling cast of supporting characters...
There are usually one or two that really stand out, and the others fade in the background, that’s not the case with The Iron King.
This book has it all.....
Absolutely recommend this book!
If you've no tolerance for angsty, bratty, obtuse heroines, steer right clear of it.****3.5-ish?**Julie Kagawa’s YA novel is an interesting treatment of Celtic legend, with characters reminiscent of Alice in Wonderland and the movie Labyrinth.
Kagawa’s vision of Faerie (or the NeverNever) is fully-realized and her particular talent lies in description--her world feels incredibly alive.
Every haughty swish of tail and narrowing of eyes makes his character more lively, more real.The story also includes some unique twists on the usual Fae lore: the inclusion of steampunk elements.
Mad yet logical, helpful yet untrustworthy, and always knowing what’s what, Grimalkin embodies everything that stands out about that Wonderland character.
I liked it, I didn't like it, I liked it I didn't like it IlikeditIdidn'tlikeit...I'm torn.
There's just something so satisfying in reviewing a much hated book that I genuinely liked a lot.
I don't want to spoil potential late readers like I was, so I won't say anything more about that but trust me : that's quite original and well, I loved it.
There's no denying that she isn't a kick-ass character, but you know, I'm feeling lenient with her because she never annoyed nor maddened me.
HOW can I be annoyed by Meghan if I shriek when I see a fucking spider?
The Iron King is the kind of books where other reviews made me doubt myself.
I'm pretty sure that most people would like it - it's competently written, Megan is a proactive character, and the story is engaging.That said, this book contains three of my biggest pet peeves in fiction, YA or any other, and I cannot overcome them.
I don't think that one was intentional, but oh, do I hate it when authors throw some pretty obvious hints at you and then, near the end of the book, have their point-of-view-character react to it like it's some huge reveal.
I know some people say that Meghan is annoying and not likeable, but I never thought so.
She's insecure, like many of us are and I always thought that made her very relatable.
I might even re-read it again because I loved the character development, the writing style....everything, honestly.
Fans of The Immortals Rule by Julie Kagawa will love this series as well.Overall, a book for anyone who's craving an imaginative story that will paint a picture in their head, filled with beautiful broken characters and a magical realm.
Meghan realizing she has faery blood:Meghan sees Ash:Ash tries to kill Meghan:Meghan still chases after him:Yeah, you probably get the idea. This might sound like a cheesy book, but don't worry, there's definitely more to it!Meghan's brother is caught by the evil baddies, the Iron fey.She meets many wonderful characters in winter wonderland and in the sunny summer territories!Yes, there's definitely more than Helena and Demetrius actions between Meghan and Ash!
It just may be, and I'm inclined to believe it, that it would suit way better than this a less experienced (please notice that I don't mean this term to be a compliment to me, just an objective statement regarding the number of fantasy books I've read so far) reader than I am.But back to us, let's see what we have.•The plot, well, I think you got it: predictable, unoriginal, et cetera.
Also, I think that the most logical thing for the Iron King to do would have been to (view spoiler)[kidnap her in the first place, because the excuse that Puck was to good of a guardian just doesn't hold up and is way too simplistic (hide spoiler)].
That is how I felt after reading The Iron King.
Simply amazing.
I was lost in this book for a few days and I never wanted to leave the beautiful world Julie Kagawa painted.
This is the best "Fey" book I have ever read!What I liked about this book: everything!
I rarely give books 5 stars unless the story really calls to my soul.
And boy was this book singing!
Puck is my favorite bc he is simply hilarious!
Lol. More reviews and more at Cuddlebuggery Book Blog.
As for the other characters in The Iron Fey, I have to mention Grimalkin (the talking cat) and Puck...the dude from A Midsummer Night's Dream.
One of the drawbacks I've encountered in paranormal fiction is the near-constant appearance of this type of love interest: the smooth-talking, cocky, oft-smirking bad boy (view spoiler)[usually with a rakish/"experienced" past, too, which authors, for some puzzling reason, love to point out to their readers.
I can't tell you how many times Meghan and company would encounter scary, nasty creatures...then escape.
As far as fairy books go, I'm not exactly sure why authors feel the need to portray fairies the same, worn way.
(but not really, this isn't really a spoiler) It turns out she is part-fey and must go into the Nevernever (I know, right?) to save her kidnapped brother.
Fairy folklore is pretty alienating to me so I was/am excited that I was engaged and interested in what was going on despite so many random creatures and words.There are definitely a lot of characters and potential side plots that are introduced but it didn't bother me in this book.
(this is very much NOT the case) Perhaps it was a case of great book at the right time, but I really hope not.
7 out of 10 Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blogLiving A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work)Short-Soundtrack:Zero-project – Dance of the fairies Licorne Argente – Seelie Court Licorne Argente – Unseelie CourtGenre: fantasy, YAStuff: fairies, jester, prince and awesome catSetting: US, NeverneverFail: naivetyWOW: world-building and mythology, GrimalkinPOV: 1st-person, femaleLove-G
Even nice ones (from Seelie Court) are dangerous and would love to have a human or two for dessert.So, we have a girl named Meghan Chase (or 'Meghan Chase, we were waiting for you' as quite every Fey addresses to her), her brother was kidnapped by fairies and she is determined to bring him back.
She would have to cross borders between human and Fey worlds, to visit three different Courts and to learn more about herself and those persons she thought she already knew well.Meet the cast:
You can die in so many interesting ways - skewered on a glass sword, dragged underwater and eaten by a kelpie, turned into a spider or a rosebush, for all time." So when I read that, I sat there, thinking, I like, I like.However, to be frank, from Kagawa's physical description of Puck, I puked a little in the inside.
I love Puck's sense of humor and the way he's confident, without seeming overly confident.
I mean, sometimes, I'll love a character, but as the next book comes, they start to change and I start liking them a bit less.
