https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/438181.The_Silk_Stocking_Murders
3,5 estrellas
When other girls seem to have followed the dead girl's method in all its details even though not all the details were revealed to the public it becomes clear that there is a serial killer at work and Roger and his friends as well as Scotland Yard must work together to track down the killer before he strikes again.
I have to admit I was pretty sure I knew who the murderer was very early on but it didn't spoil my enjoyment of the story as it was interesting to see who the killer was tracked down.I think the denouement is one of the most frightening things I've read for a long time.
Reading this book, you can see how what the Nazis were able to get away with their plans for exterminating the Jews.
The fact that these were the common views of the day and no one seemed to think that there was anything wrong with publishing something like what follows: “I’ve never met a Jew I liked so much before,” Anne remarked.
“The real pure-blooded Jew, like Pleydell,” Roger told her, “is one of the best fellows in the world.
“I should have thought that the pure-blooded Jew would have retained his Oriental emotionalism almost unimpaired.”This antisemitic writing is common in the other two Berkeley books I've read as well.
She apparently committed suicide by hanging herself from a door with one of her own silk stockings.Roger Sheringham, a noted novelist, columnist and private investigator, had already been contacted by her father, a country clergyman, who was worried for her safety having become concerned when her regular letters home stopped arriving.When another suicide victim is found in identical circumstances, Sheringham at first dismisses it as a 'copycat' suicide, but soon begins to suspect that a homicidal maniac (the Nineteen Twenties term for serial killer) is on the loose, driven by lust to hang women with their own stockings.He teams up informally (as he has previously) with Inspector Moresby of Scotland Yard and the Jewish millionaire Pleydell whose fiancee is one of the victims.
Really disappointing. The setup, where Roger Sheringham gets involved in a case to show off his not-particularly-impressive deductive prowess, was very funny and promising, but ended up being overshadowed by the book's pervasive antisemitism. With golden age mysteries it's common to run into jarring, anachronistic bigotry that would never be published now, but this was particularly extreme (and tied to the ludicrous conclusion).
2.8 stars.Could have been much better without the painful unnecessary and extreme reenactment of the crime towards the end.I felt the lady in question was definitely "mistreated" all through the book - being kissed several times without permission or will and then playing the "bait" at other times.
Too easy to guess whodunnit. The anti-Semitism also made for uncomfortable reading given the original publication date (1941)...
The Silk Stocking Murders by Anthony Berkeley (1928) is another fine example of the Golden Age amatuer detective.
Sheringham is touched by the letter and the vicar's faith in him and sets out to find the girl.
She was found hanged by her own silk stocking and the coroner and his jury quickly found for a case of suicide.
But then other girls, including a society darling, are found dead in similar circumstance and Sheringham and the police begin to wonder if this is simply a case of copycat suicides or something much more sinister.
Novelist and amateur detective Roger Sheringham sets out to investigate the death of a country vicar's daughter turned London chorus girl.
The coroner declares the girl's death (she was found hung from her own silk stocking) a suicide, but Roger begins to have his doubts.
I found this novel, the fourth in the Roger Sheringham series, probably his best.
I've already bought the Kindle edition of No. 6 in the excellent series, The Second Shot.CAVEAT: Berkeley published The Silk Stocking Murder in 1928, and the attitude toward Jews is very mildly anti-Semitic.
"El crimen de las medias de seda" es la segunda (mal llamada, porque son varios, no sólo uno) novela que se publica por estos lares de Anthony Berkeley, otro de esos miembros de ese fantástico Detection Club cuyos mayores exponentes fueron Chesterton, Christie y Sayers.
El caso está muy bien planteado, y acaba con una ingeniosa trampa final que desvela al autor de los asesinatos.
Esperamos que sigan publicando novelas de este hombre para seguir disfrutando de su humor e ingenio ("¿Sabe lo malo de los auténticos detectives de Scotland Yard Moresby?
-Preguntó con amabilidad- Que no leen novelas policíacas")
Starting the new year with another absorbing mystery from the early part of the 20th century...Berkeley's amateur sleuth Roger Sheringham works closely with Scotland Yard on this perplexing mystery, after first investigating the suicide of a young woman who had moved to London to earn money to help support her father and sisters.
The whole set-up seems wrong and convinces Sheringham that the woman was driven to suicide or outright murdered.
Soon more suicides crop up and it becomes clear a madman is at loose in London.
Like many old murder mysteries, this seemed over-explained and over-analyzed to me. The reader has to listen to the detectives work their way through many obvious possibilities painstakingly slowly. This particular book drips with sexism, Jewish stereotyping, and outdated moralistic attitudes.
Hacia mas de dos años que lo tenia pendiente, sólo porque no lo encontraba. La larga espera ha valido la pena.
