https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88857.Enemies_of_Promise
On the upside, the next time anyone complains about how The Literary Establishment has always forced people to write in single genres and thus distorted the Genius Writer, I can point to one more book as showing what rubbish that statement is.
Each movement--other than naturalism, for me--will produce a few books worth reading.
Cyril read everything of his time, it seems, and his simple categories still work today, as we swing between 'vernacular' (naturalism, anti-modernism, sincerity) and 'mandarin' (decadence, modernism, post-modernism, neo-modernism).
It's interesting stuff, rendered dated in its prescriptions by the fact that the dam was about burst - a vast array of styles far beyond the elitist 'mandarin' or demotic 'vernacular' of his analysis were to explode on the literary scene.
The thing with all his enemies of promise, is that I can list writers who have realised their promise despite them, but still Connolly does provide a useful list of things that the indisciplined or simply insufficiently driven or inspired writer can use as ways to drift away from writing.
Definitely a mandarin book, style-wise!
"I have always disliked myself at any given moment; the total of such moments is my life."
This is a rather surprising and confusing book; only the middle third is like I thought it would be (which is also the part advertised by the title.) Since this section is by far the shortest, it leaves me with a lot of time to reflect on the other two.The first eighty or so pages -- which lay out "the Predicament," as Connolly calls it -- are given over, as he puts it, to "the problem of how to write a book which lasts ten years." This was, now that I think about it, an advertisement that attracted me -- as a reader I am much interested in writers' views on writing.
Just finished Part I, the witty survey of English literary trends, feuds and factions from 1890 until 1938. The copy I have is a library one, so I may not proceed until I can buy my own markable copy. Connolly has such an aphoristic style--at times I'm conscious of reading through filler before the zinger--that I need to read him with pen in hand.
William Boyd said of this: "Somehow manages to enshrine in his words and life everything that we aspire to, and that intellectually ennobles us, and all that is weak and worst in us as well."
As an author and a reader, I found this section enlightening and at time maddening, given the similar challenges facing writers then and now.
It is the vehicle of all business and propaganda.” “At the present time for a book to be produced with any hope of lasting half a generation, of outliving a dog or a car, of surviving the lease of a house or the life of a bottle of champagne, it must be written against the current, in a prose that makes demands both on the resources of our language and the intelligence of the reader.” “Our language is a sulky and inconstant beauty and at any given moment it is important to know what liberties she will permit.” “To-day, the forces of life and progress are ranging on one side, those of reaction and death on the other.
Connolly is obviously incredibly nostalgic about his Eton days, and I don’t feel I grasped many insights into why he didn’t publish a successful novel from hearing about all of his friendships and the boys he loved, in great detail.
However, I still wasn’t interested in a detailed account and reminisce of his Eton days, and there was very little discussion about how this changed him in any meaningful way.
I can tell from parts of his writing and what I’ve read about him that he was an incredibly interesting man and writer but I just didn’t see enough of it in this book.
Connolly is a true pleasure to read.
Book I provides a detailed round-up of early 20th C prose as seen through the dialectic of mandarin and vernacular style.
Book II is a marvel.
reasons), but it could easily be the sole text in a course listed as "Literary Ambition & Its Discontents." Gotta love Book III too; Connolly puts his lesson plan into use to see if he measures up.
(Critic, write thyself.) The autobiographical sketch of boyhood in England's finest schools is reminiscent of—and provides a nice counterpoint to—Orwell's on the same topic.
A secondhand edition of this book, first published in 1938, has sat on my shelves since I finished university - I finally got around to reading it following a deadline at the end of last year. The delay was probably necessary, but approached now I did indeed find - as many have before me - that Connolly's book said more about the practise of being a writer, and the pitfalls that surround it, than any other single volume. Highly recommended.
A time capsule of sorts, assessing the novelists of early-to-mid 20th-century Britain, what it takes to write a novel (according to Connolly, who admittedly never did), and ending with a short memoir of Connolly's schooldays and rise to prominence as a critic. Perhaps nothing more than a curiosity these days, but I enjoy the immersion in a bygone literary world.
A classic, long out of print. Should be read by every aspiring writer--at least, Part II. The middle section deserves five stars--it's an irreverent riff on the enemies that lurk to derail the train of focus that writers need to produce a work that "lasts ten years."
Overall, the book is a relic of the past but the quotes and vignettes it contains (of friendships, characters, feelings, styles) are eternal. It includes an autobiography, but it's more valuable as the biography of a generation.
The essay section on writing is required for readers as well as writers, but at this point the coming-of-age memoir doesn't offer much you haven't already read - though it does say what George Orwell was like in high school.
One half literary criticism, one half clear-eyed and brutal analysis of his days at Eton. Addictive, if maybe a little too aphoristic. You start to feel foolish when you find yourself underlining something every page...
Interesting. The three parts are - not to spoil it for anyone - entirely different. The third is not about literature but is an autobiographical essay - mostly about boys schools and Eton.
A must read for aspiring writers, but skip chapter one. Most of the authors he discusses are unknown today.
Very interesting, detailed and offers excellent insight into the history of writing.
