https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17595.Blues_People
Blues People was a book he published in 1963 back when he was still LeRoi Jones and African Americans were called Negroes.
It’s still pretty deep but I wanted to wrap my mind around this dense, yet, succinct text that traces how the blues developed NOT with enslaved Africans but from their enslaved descendants: American born and bred; disenfranchised, not accepted as full citizens with inalienable rights.
While I found this text challenging to read, it was also illuminating, and shrewd; written by someone with a deep love and long memory for music, black people, and other folks.
While I have major reservations about a lot of Amiri Baraka's ideas and statements as expressed in his poetry and elsewhere, I have to acknowledge that Blues People is mostly excellent.
Baraka's perspective is necessarily insular and dated, he's not interested in ideas of cross cultural assimilation/appropriation or multicultural influences (which to be honest, are concepts that didn't really fully develop in these kinds of analysis until decades after this was written).
Someone really needs to write a version of Blues People for Hip-hop specifically and the musical sources and world it comes out of.To be honest, the excellence of Blues People's analysis just makes Amiri Baraka seem even more problematic to me.
I had an initial criticism of his coverage of "The Modern Scene" at the time of reading because the chapter was so voluminous compared to how neatly Baraka had broken down the other chapters, but I had merely to remind myself that when the book was composed, he was awash in the fresh memory of that modern musical movement whereas I am looking at the work of Coleman, Coltrane, and Rollins with an eye towards the past as one of the new antiquities of music.For lack of a film directly from Baraka himself, I would offer up for analysis the documentary series "Ken Burns' Jazz" though for a different reason than you might think.
Blues, jazz, soul, and funk have all fully entered the white American songbook, and hip-hop, while it's been slow getting there, is on its way.
A music that terrifies white people, wrinkles the foreheads of the black bourgeoisie, and still has a rough, menacing edge, even in an era when you'll hear Q-Tip on NPR.
And when Baraka is talking about white performers feeling more comfortable with Bix Beiderbecke or Dave Brubeck due to some kind of intrinsic whiteness, how do we feel when we find that the only hip-hop in some suburban kid's library is Macklemore?
Leroi Jones (a.k.a. Amiri Baraka) wrote his book "Blues People: Negro Music in White America" in 1963, and it is still one of the definitive texts about the blues.
I'm not sure, but I think Jones followed up this book with a sequel, which would also be worth reading.
My only real complaint with the book is that it focuses more on jazz than the blues, and it only gives a very brief and fleeting description of the many schools of blues: Mississippi Delta, Chicago, country.
This book was NOT what I expected from reading the reviews.
It is book about African American culture and history with music involved.
It was his theories on how "Negroes" thought and felt to make them create the music.
I don't even consider this book non fiction since so much is theory, so how can this be a "definitive book of blues history"?
I have already read books about "Negro" history in America.
This is a African American history lesson with a lot of theory and a bit of music.
Want a book that will teach you actual historical facts about the Blues?
That it is a truth, I have no doubt.Another one that stood out: “Rock ‘n’ roll is the blues form of the classes of Americans who lack the “sophistication” to be middle brows, or are too naïve to get in on the mainstream American taste; those who think that somehow Melachrino, Kostelanetz, etc., are too lifeless.” Melachrino (George) and Kostelanetz (Andre) were classical musicians and composers, so it seems like Baraka is saying rock ‘n’ roll is for those who are incapable of appreciating jazz and find little excitement in modern, mainstream orchestral music.
Early in Blues People, Baraka wrote about what distinguished many black slaves in America from their enslaved counterparts throughout history (west Africa, Rome, Greece, Babylon, etc.) was that the black slave in America wasn't even considered human in the ways that whites understood the word.
Baraka writes: "It is absurd to assume, as has been the tendency, among a great many Western anthropologists and sociologists, that all traces of Africa were erased from the Negro's mind because he learned English." The resulting cultural, social, and value differences, claims Baraka, persist in white and in black communities to this day.
Blues People is an alternate history of American music.
And that's the best thing about it - sometimes there's nothing better than learning that everything you know is wrong.
The second best is the vitriol Baraka has for just about every facet of 200 years of popular American culture.
I don't know as much about jazz, but this turned out to be to my benefit.
Like I said, everything you know is wrong.
It's fascinating that this book is from 1963 - coming in just before the entire mainstream culture took a hard turn towards the underground, or at least the illusion of it.
Simply one of the greatest pieces of musical criticism I have ever read. Steeped in cultural and economic critique, history, and an astounding talent of keen observation into human nature and how it demands that art be created under unimaginable oppression. A must read for anyone interested in music or US history.
A fascinating, thorough, and exhilarating social document of the development of black music in America. A must read, I would say.BONUS: When I was 19 I saw Baraka speak at the University of Missouri. It was such a critical and ecstatic speech that afterwords my buddies and I met him. I literally told him I thought he was a God.
Though he sometimes gets weighed down in his own words, the author's style is unique as is his perspective. Definitely recommend for any music educators or blues enthusiasts.
In his book Blues People, LeRoi Jones claims that this dual nature of bebop music was only possible because of the separation of blacks within American society and the continuity of the authentic expression of the blues.  Beginning with the first Africans brought to North America, Jones argues that there has been a division in the black community. This division is between the “blues people” and the assimilationists. Jones defines blues people by quoting Ralph Ellison: “those who accepted and li
In his book Blues People, LeRoi Jones claims that this dual nature of bebop music was only possible because of the separation of blacks within American society and the continuity of the authentic expression of the blues.
The blues people were thereby separated from mainstream America by racism and from their fellow African Americans through class stratification and the divergence of cultural values.
Jones argues that the black middle-class did not listen to the blues because it was a reminder of slavery; an ugly fact that needs to be forgotten in order to assimilate into American culture.
gone where the Southern cross the yella dogThe other day a friend rashly claimed that art and music were equally hard to describe in words.
"OK," I said, "you're right, but now tell me about Mozart's Jupiter Symphony." He opened his mouth, closed it, looked at me, and said, "Yeah, I see what you mean." Writing a book about the blues would be equally hard, it seems to me.
Anyone, particularly from outside the USA, who wants to know the history of African-American music within its social environment ought still to read BLUES PEOPLE.
So the overlap is obviously imperfect, and I am unfamiliar with the debates concerning blues/jazz and the U.S. historical context of their development.Having said that, some of the claims in this book are problematic--Baraka essentializes Africa as, well, first a cohesive whole with a single cultural and musical tradition.
This book is politically important--pointing out the contributions of African American artists and drawing in the legacy of slavery and ongoing prejudice and discrimination in music-making.
Amiri Baraka does an excellent job giving the reader the prime beginning of information of the birth of Black music and the journey from Africa to the Americas.
They still retained the Africanism because of their elders and oral traditions, but the Afro-American slave had a new way of thinking about freedom.
But to ignore or ignorantly disregard its origin is a prime example of exploitation of Black music and the impact Black lives has in America, which Baraka explained fairly well in Blues People.
To know or identify with the origin of music of today Blues People would be the book to read.
Given his argument the benefit of the doubt, I choose to read it this way: African American music is a social, emotional and intellectual stance to American society.
Which I guess answers the question why most people who write about blues are white.
Although I think he completely underestimates the universality of the blues, mostly because his argument centers on a belief that Jazz was the first universal American music made by African Americans due to the fact that African Americans had become citizens (and not just slaves or freedmen).Also RIP.
It's also worth noting that rock n' roll and rhythm & blues are basically glossed over in a few paragraphs—this struck me as odd, given the fact that this book was written in the thick of Motown and Elvis's popularity.As vigorously as Mr. Baraka argues that "artistic progress" is a strictly European idea that kept black music in a cultural ghetto for most of its development, it's ironic that he seems to putting modern jazz up on a pedestal while simultaneously dismissing the popularization of R&B music as artistically irrelevant.
I always thought such nuance, the experience of being black in 20th century America, combined with the cultural divide between white and black participation in Jazz music was so difficult to actually put into words that did it all justice.
If anybody is interested in Blues/Jazz music and how it came to be this truly is the book to read.
Also Jones’ writing actually often made me stop reading to say wow and underline certain sentences that said things I thought nobody could ever have words to explain.
a MUST for anyone interested in those musical forms; NOT a history of them, tho that is included, but rather a history of "the negro experience in white america and the music that developed from it," which is a COMPLETELY different thing!
tho at times the barrage of five-dollar words threatens to drag things down, the author's energy, humor & bursts of outrage & disdain keep things lively, & the revelations come fast & furiously: the origin of an african-american social hierarchy post-slavery, the fact that the first jazz bands had the same instrumentation as marching bands of the time subverted to their own purposes, the ugly fact that at every turn the music was watered down & popularized by white america & white artists, and the sobering fact that every real revolutionary development of the music was in response to this deadening popularization and served to return the music to its beginnings as outsider art.
This book was part of my reading for an elective core class called Youth Culture, though in practice it quickly become a Music Appreciation class, courtesy of our jazz critic professor.
But the most powerful takeaway was a deeper appreciation of the intertwined relationship between black and white culture, as exemplified in the synthesis of numerous and powerfully American musical forms, from slave-era field hollers to post-Emancipation blues, from which were descended the various pure (and impure) forms of jazz, as well as the various "dilutions" (popular music for whites) of black music--ragtime, swing, hard bop, etc.
This book provided insights about the connections and disconnections that came about as slaves were brought to America and then over 250 years became Negro Americans, Afro Americans, and citizens.Although the book is written pragmatically, the path through the ages taken by Negroes and the music that both sustained and propelled them is still difficult to read.
There's a sorrow in it that never seemed to lift for this reader although the music has been that ever-present bridge to Jordan.It's a bit of a cumbersome read, pedantic and at times the writing gets tangled up in itself.
The central argument of this book - all American popular music is stolen from blacks by whites - seems reasonable enough.
When empirical evidence falters, Baraka resorts to - to paraphrase and take great liberty with the text - "it's a black thing" and "you wouldn't understand" (addressing the predominantly white audience which he is presumably writing for).
Therefore, Baraka is correct and you'll just have to take his word for it.Blues People and Black Music set a new standard for scholarship, and opened new doors for exploring the ideas of racial essentialim as a positive thing, instead of a negative.
Starting from the time of slavery and moving all the way through cool jazz, the author covers everything in great historical detail.
There's analysis of individual musicians, styles, cultural movements, historical events, migrations, etc.
If you have never read books on blues, it's hard to beat starting with this one.It is true that the author colors the book with his opinion.
I do not read just to be informed; I want to have my ideas challenged, to argue or agree with the author in my head, and find out what his thoughts are, rather than mere historical facts.
This book is essential to anyone who loves blues, jazz, R&B, or even roots rock n' roll, and desires to understand the contribution of the Negro culture to these music forms and, thereby, to American culture.
Because it was published in 1963, it traces the history of Negro music from its African roots, through early "field hollers" and "gospel" in the days of slavery, and then through what Baraka refers to as "the so-called Emancipation", to early jazz as a formalization of the blues, and on to New Orleans style jazz, swing, bebop, cool jazz, and hard bop, ending with the avant garde of the early 60s, and innovators such as John Coltrane, Cecil Taylor, and Ornette Coleman.Fascinating and important book in the history of American culture and the arts.
To provide a cohesive, detailed analysis of the social and music development of the "Negro experience in white America" in two hundred and thirty odd pages?
I would be lying if I said that I found the book very readable - it was difficult to get through all the obscure one-off references to people, places, and things, sometimes using slang that isn't easily cross-referenced.That said, it's a really interesting read.
To say that I learned a lot about the social context of different musical movements in blues and jazz would an understatement and disservice to the book.
I got a lot out of the book.
Anyway, some of the great things I took away from this book were an attempt to situate blues and jazz musicians within their racial, class, and cultural context and think about how this affected the social/communal act of making (and hearing) music - as opposed to the very typical practice of venerating unique musical "geniuses".
Another point that I found really fascinating (and that I think many other reviewers here have missed) has to do with Baraka's acknowledgement that early African-American music took as much from white-American music as the other way around.
This book just gave me a whole different way of understanding American music.
Of course, Blues People has no love for the Jim Crow White South, but what is very intriguing is how much contempt and dislike Baraka has for the Black Bourgeoisie.
One can definitely read a certain amount of Marxist influence in Baraka's Weltanshauung that is absent from the contemporary Black Lives Matter worldview, and I think it makes for an interesting contrast.My only real issue with this book is that, after castigating white/bourgeois black America for not immediately embracing the aesthetic of Bebop (while of course not acknowledging the benefit of hindsight/having grown up with the aesthetic of Bird and Monk), he goes on to castigate hard bop for lacking authenticity.
Come now, Mr. Baraka; I challenge you to come up with any recording more perfectly beautiful than Cannonball Adderley's rendition of "Autumn Leaves" on the album Somthin' Else!
When I hear a blues song I listen to the simple lyrics that convey emotion.
Unlike a blues song this book wasn't simply written.
Although it wasn't difficult at all I felt it did take away from the experience I was expecting.
I wanted to read the book to better understand the significance of jazz.
I knew he was a Jazz buff so I expected it'll tell me what Jazz was about.
I'm unsure who the book was intended to be read by.
I felt as if he was trying to point out significant details to someone.
"Blues People" is not exactly a short history of the blues and becuz "Blues People" is such a short read it could, perhaps, be mischaracterized as topical survey.
But it is such a dense book that covers such a broad range and deals w/ multiple premises all while explaining the origins & conditions which gave rise to the blues.
"Blues People" is less about raison d'etre & more about the reason why (& how...) the blues CAME into existence into the first place--I marvel at Amiri Baraka's range as a writer.
And I look farward to reading more of his writing soon.
