https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32769.At_the_Mountains_of_Madness_and_Other_Tales_of_Terror
4 stars for "Dreams in the Witch-House"this is the real find of the book as it doesn't often make its way into Lovecraft collections.
those dreams were fascinating and included all sorts of details that were both vividly odd and surprisingly precise.
the whole story has the feeling of a hysterical, escalating fever dream.
I love those sorts of dreams!
if you can't deal with the hyperventilating style and all of the history as horror, best to give up because this is Lovecraft in a nutshell.during my re-read, I realized that my favorite thing about this novella is the parallel narrative that is submerged within the story.
Reading Lovecraft is sometimes a bit frustrating. There is only so long that the nameless terror can move the narrative forward. Perhaps a longer review to follow which might explain how I can like Lovecraft without really liking his writing.
For the purposes of making this more exciting, lets say their names are Michael, Eh!, Jacob, Ceridwen, Caris, Jason, Manny, Brian and Aerin.
So, there's general agreement: sounds like Necronomicon, chapter 5: "On Scary Arctic Architecture and Other Scary Things Too."Meanwhile, Ceridwen was building a small hospital with her bare hands, crafting perfect rectangular bricks out of snow.
WE ALL AGREE IT SOUNDS LIKE THE "ANCIENT ONES" FROM THE NECRONOMICON, CHAPTER 7.Now, we were all excited about the scientific possibilites, so much so that Jacob thoughtfully scratched his ironic beard, and Caris jizzed in his pants.
I just don't know what to say about Lovecraft.
It's all good spooky fun, but...
he really isn't a good writer.
It was so terrifying to behold that words cannot describe it!" "It was like that indescribable utterly terrifying thing that you are utterly terrified of but can't describe because it's so utterly terrifying!"Needless to say I'll be reading more of it.Oh yeah; it's interesting to compare Lovecraft's stuff to M.R. James' ghost stories.
James is also no great writer, but he has equally cool horror ideas (haunted binoculars, anyone?).
Creatures like that do figure somewhat in At the Mountains of Madness and Other Tales of Terror but they're part of much grander, bleaker story that totally delighted me and gave me the best kind of shivery tinglies.The story is told from the perspective of geologist William Dyer.
I wanted to know what it looked like thousands of years ago, what amazing mysteries might be hiding under the ice that could change the entire history of civilization just as much as Dyer did.Inevitably things start to go very wrong.
I've read several collections of Lovecraft.
Often I've read the same story as he was mortal and had to stop writing at his death...though if anyone might have continued on it would probably have been H.
I've since looked up books Lovecraft himself listed as influences and read many of his "pulp era" peers and successors.Lovecraft's voice frankly dancing along the borders of madness in some of his stories contrasts with others of the time and since.
He gives us stories where "normalcy" gives way to the strangeness beneath.
In short,I like Lovecraft.
Lovecraft is a writer highly skilled in imagination, intelligence and words.
I find when I read his work I always have to take note of words to look up in a dictionary.
The story explains about an area that has been discovered and this is the account of the discovery and findings.Excerpt."Here sprawled a palaeogean megalopolis compared with which the fabled Atlantis and Lemuria, Commorion and Uzuldaroum; a megalopolis ranking with such whispered pre-human blasphemies as Valusia, R'lyeh, Ib in the land of Manr, and the Nameless Coty of Arabia Deserta."Also he says "hellish Archean organisms."
The color out of space.Lovecraft, what can I say that has never been said? You tend to babble and overindulge in unnecessary explanation, but I forgive you. Aeon is your favorite word and fittingly so. Your art will last as long, if not longer. At the Mountains of Madness: 4The Shunned House: 2The Dreams in the Witch-House: 4The Statement of Randolph Carter: 3
Narrado en primera persona por uno de los integrantes (y sobrevivientes) de la expedición a la Antártida, exhorta a la próxima expedición que no se arriesguen a seguir investigando en aquella cima del mundo.
Las montañas enormes, y la nieve, ocultan una civilización jamás documentada en la historia de la humanidad.
Y a descubrir, con horror, que hay algo que aun respira.Bajo la acostumbrada premisa de Lovecraft de las ciudades muertas, los monstruos aterradores, y una prosa que hace parte al lector, es imposible no seguir las historias hasta el final, aunque el ritmo no sea tan veloz como el mercado actual exige.
I really wanted to like this more. The style of writing I couldn't get over though, and his roundabout way of getting to any of the 'horror' was more painful to me than what would befall the characters in these stories. That said I did really like the ideas in the stories though, but again the writing killed it for me, especially all the superlatives that would be added before even the smallest detail of horror was given.
Anyhoo, a great story of majestic terror.The Shunned House is basically about a vampiric house, although I must give it props for the good sense to include a flame thrower, even though it didn't work.Dreams in the Witch House was the creepiest of the three.
Example: Well, ever since I've moved into this asymmetrical cell that used to be inhabited by a witch that most of Arkham is convinced is still alive, I've been sleep walking and have disturbing dreams.
Maybe it's because the narrator (the geologist) does not go directly laying down the scene, but instead describes what he feels, or what goes inside him, so that the reader's imagination, fueled by it, creates its own horrors.
Maybe it was because, unknown to the author himself, he was then living a life of ultimate horror and unconsciously this rubbed off on his work.
At the back inside cover of the book, under the heading "About the Author" is written:"H.P. LOVECRAFT (1890-1937) lived his life in the moody New England that was the setting for his tales.
However, At The Mountains of Madness has none, and therefore is simply page after page of what Lovecraft does best: narrate.
and that's saying a lot.It starts out rather sluggish, with Dyer's descriptions of what technology is being taken on their expedition and what the weather is like and at what longitudes and lattitudes they're stopping bogging down a bit of the narrative.
His descriptions of creatures are both helpful and misleading, leaving enough up to imagination that it adds to the anxiety you feel as Dyer and Danforth dig further and further into the mysteries of the Mountains of Madness.I enjoyed this novella immensely, and would recommend it to anyone who is a fan of horror.
So I couldn't go into the basement for a week after reading this... Would have been longer, but laundry needed to be done. Truly amazing!
Like many writers who hit on a big idea that births a genre (or mini-genre) he can't actually write.Here is the thing: he reads like a particularly dry tome written in the Victorian era.
(If I read the word "Cambrian" one more time this book might actually get me to scream, though not for the reasons advertised.) Also, this story is such an ideal example of why "show don't tell" is a writing staple.
The only thing I find scary about Lovecraft are his politics and sweeping popularity.Sci-fi book club - 10/17
One of the most interesting things about the experience is the realization of the influence of his work - from tiny things like Arkham Asylum taking its name from Lovecraft's fictional city of Arkham, to the omnipresence of Lovecraft's character Cthulu as a cultural reference.
And now having read it, I'd like to see it on the big screen.
Three of the four stories are told in past tense, by narrators that lived through whatever weird events they are retelling, and I (mistakenly) thought that these past-tense tellings would be less likely to be scary, because clearly the narrators survived.
Erk! I can't love the writing style and aliens are....er, an alien concept to my reading preferences :P Read for the geocaching challenge - tis not easy to find a book set in Antarctica (and obtain it) so this novella (with the other tales) was the best I could do.
Are scary stories more effective when they are read in the dark?
I spent most of my time reading this book's 120-odd pages in broad daylight.
However, the story isn't all that scary, because for 60 pages all Lovecraft does is describe the history of these "horrible beings".
The story picks up a little steam near the end, but it doesn't make up for the sludgy pace of the story.One of the trademarks of Lovecraft is his love of overly descriptive, tangled prose.
But then again, I could read "House of Leaves" in broad daylight and STILL want to go to bed with all the lights on.
“The Statement of Randolph Carter” was frightening and the ending was almost comical.
I guess this is part of the authors dream cycle that I plan to read.
I also loved reading “The Shunned House”, especially the history of the house.
“Dreams in the Witch-House” was fascinating and probably the most frightening of the short stories but it was the title story that made the entire book worth the time.
Considering that I've read a great deal by authors who have been influenced by Lovecraft, I was familiar with the story and many of the creatures/characters.
Loved it all, highly recommended.
Provokes vertiginous terror, as it describes in details the discovery of an alien civilization in the middle of antarctic coldness. It continues a tradition of antarctic novels, from Poe's "The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym of Nanducket", till Jules Verne's "The sphinx of the Ice Fields". Even today feeds the conversation about the Hollow Earth Theory. I tried to imagine how abysmal the specific alien civilization would be, if existed. The uncanny feeling provoked by all those strange archaeological foundings in antarctic caves, and the alive alien chasing the hero, make the plot passionate and frigtening at the same time.
I would love to see what Lovecraft could do in this modern age where you don't have to worry about censorship or your book being banned.
There is no doubt the man was a master at suspense and had an imagination that was unrivaled.
This older style writing is harder to follow for me...
I have to exert my reading patience, but it is still very entertaining.
I'm sticking to my plan to read short story collections for the Halloween season and this one was a fun one to add to the bunch.
Anyone have any short story collections in horror they would recommend?
I love Lovecraft despite his thinly veiled xenophobia and his political sympathies with fascism. I guess just don't take you politics or world view from horror writers!
Оказывается, что дом, конечно же, стоит на месте старого кладбища, где в своё время был похоронен весьма сомнительный тип, которого обвиняли в ведьмовстве.
Впрочем, нашедшие его спасатели с сооружением разбираются быстро, продолжая своё вторжение в природу планеты.Злой священникКакая-то непонятная история, в которой с помощью волшебного фонаря посетитель некоей комнаты приобретает внешность человека, который когда-то давно жил здесь - злого (как это мешало в жизни?) священника.В поисках неведомого КадатаИ вот она, вершина "сновидческого" цикла рассказов.
Лавкрафту это представляется как некий великолепный город, что как бы только говорит о его личности.
Una vez llegas al momento en que Lovecraft establece una cosmogonía respecto a los primordiales y su llegada y asentamiento en la tierra, junto con los conflictos que estos mantienen con otras razas de su imaginario y demás, todo es perfecto.
Aún con todo, es una lectura pesada para ser un libro de 130 páginas.
En mi opinión, hay partes de este relato en los que se deja llevar y nos cuenta hasta el último detalle de la expedición, incluidas cosas sin las cuales la historia fluiría mucho mejor y que no restarían nada al relato principal que comienza cuando llegan a la ciudad.
This book contains the novelette "At the Mountains of Madness", a lonely, creepy work where the Shoggoths dwell. The accompanying short stories are worthwhile as well.I like Lovecraft's work, but "At the Mountains of Madness" was sometimes too heavy on the description of the surroundings in too much of a mathematical sense. A sketch or two would suffice occasionally.Having said that, Lovecraft is about the slow horror and the reader's imagination, so it doesn't always lend itself to light reading. The later, shorter tales in this book do qualify as lighter, though.
At The Mountains of Madness.
The book was good.
It wasn't really what I would consider scary although once the book was started it did keep me flipping the pages very quickly.
I found the scientific writing style was very cold and seemed distant to me.
It was easy to understand and made it much more believable.
It did make it difficult to be involved.
Lastly, for a short story it took a long time to build up to the horror part of the story.
I was nearly halfway through the book and only the last several pages were the intense part.
A classic collection - the Mountains of Madness being a small novella in the lead is especially good at building the reader up while beggering further research into Lovecraft's universe. My favourite of the lot is the Witch House in which the horror aspect comes into play moreso than the other short tales in the collection.
Not the best of Lovecrat's tales. Quite boring and little interesting.
3.5En las montañas de la locuraNo puedo dejar de pensar en esos pinguinos gigantes, albinos y ciegos graznando. Sin embargo, son demasiadas páginas para este relato.La ciudad sin nombreLe faltó más emoción, la premisa era muy buena y la historia interesante.Los gatos de UltharPreciso, va al punto, me gustó mucho.
2,5El relato que más me ha gustado ha sido el de Los gatos de Ulthar.
