https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/498608.The_Shepherd
—De Havilland VampireThe Shepherd is a novella about a 20 year old pilot who, on Christmas Eve 1957, set out from Lower Saxony, Germany to Blighty, UK to celebrate christmas with his family.
Flying a De Havilland Vampire, a British jet fighter, he knew the flight time would take 66 minutes.
The rescue aircraft was called the Shepherd.The pilot did two turns of the triangle manoeuvre and waited.
But, who is the mysterious shepherd who brought this young pilot to safety on Christmas Eve 1957?
Having never read Forsyth before (an author associated with the kind of best-selling thrillers that are translated onscreen into high octane testosterone-driven Hollywood movies raking in the buck), I hit the 'request' button for this quite impulsively on Netgalley (and partly out of curiosity I believe).
Aaaaaand it has turned out to be exactly what the blurb advertises.
Another obligatory tale of a Christmas miracle in which a young English pilot's life is saved by the ghost of a World War 2 bomber plane on Christmas eve.
Well nothing says 'It's Christmas!' like a polite suspension of disbelief.
I initially heard the CBC Radio broadcast of this story for Christmas 2012 read by the late Alan Maitland.
It is a beautifully written story about a pilot who is lost in a terrible fog on Christmas Eve. His instruments fail him, and his fuel is running low.
He is certain he will die until a mysterious second pilot arrives to shepherd him back to safety.
It’s a beautifully written story that truly comes to life.
A story does not have to be long to have special meaning and a warm yet mysterious ending that makes you feel good.
Many years after having read it,the ending stays in memory.A very quick read and a good description of fighter flying in World War II.
My other half found this in a second hand book shop. Having never read anything by Frederick Forsyth i thought i'd read it as it was short and an easy addition to my reading challenge. OK, so he wrote it after his wife requested a ghost story. A nice gesture on his behalf but it didn't mean he had to release it. It's a fairly weak story with a predictable conclusion. I won't judge the author based on this.
I, too, read this every Christmas season - and think of it often throughout the year.
I've always read (and re-read) the condensed version that appeared in Reader's Digest so many years ago, torn from that old magazine and treasured in my files.
But just this month I finally got busy and located and purchased a used copy of the book.
Now I will treasure the book as well as the old, dog-eared pages from RD.
The first time I read it, I wasn't paying attention and thought it was a true story, but still, I always cry when I get to the final paragraphs.
A novella by Forsyth which is a quick read and much unlike his other works. There are sketches included as well. Read this if you get your hands on it. It won't take much of your time and the story is simple enough.
A rather haunting tale.
After leaving two books after just a couple of chapters yesterday (Dev Lok and 1984), my rhythm of reading was severely disturbed, so the best solution was to go back to one of my favourite Authors.
Typical of Forsyth, he doesn't waste time in any formalities, and just grabs you by the scruff of the neck from the very first page and doesn't leave you till you've finished the novel.
I felt at least at 2 instances that the novel had now ended only to be dumbstruck on the very next page.
As you would expect from a novel this short (look at the number of pages then add in the fact that there are sketches as well and you can truly begin to understand just how short the story really is) events progress at quite a speed, keeping you interested from start to end.
There isn’t all that much depth but it easy conveys the feelings you would expect from this kind of work.As something you can read in one very quick sitting, it is interesting but doesn’t really blow the mind.
I stumbled across a Frederick Forsyth interview on TV one day (it was about gravel pits encroaching on his Bedfordshire village) and thought, if the man speaks like this he has to be worth reading.
Then I discovered the average length of a Forsyth novel, and wavered a bit.Then I discovered The Shepherd.
It's a gem of a tale, beautifully told, nicely revealed, and short enough that there's not much more I can say about it without giving something away.If you don't want to start on a Forsyth doorstop without a little reassurance that his voice is one you can live with for the duration, this is an excellent starting point
An aviation classicBy Charles van Buren on December 30, 2017Format: Kindle Edition|Verified PurchaseMany of the negative reviews of this novella are from people who claim that the book description did not state that this is a "short story.".
I checked the Amazon descriptions for the e-book and the hard copies.
All descriptions list the book as having either 123 or 129 pages.
Others seriously complain that the book is not worth the price because it is short.
Personally, I do not buy my literature by the pound.As to the story, it is quite good as one would expect from an internationally acclaimed work which is particularly admired in the aviation community.
Re-read almost every year since 1976. One of my favorites to read at Christmas time.
An excellent Christmas story from a master.
A very meticulously constructed short story from the master of the political thrillers.
As I started this book and barely in to few initial pages, I started getting to know lot of concepts and nuances of handling and maneuvering a fight jet.
As always is the case with Frederick's novels, it's filled with grandiose narrations of everything that features in the novel.
Treat to your brain are the elaborate explanations about the winter conditions of the North Sea and it's adjoining areas.Since the beginning of the story, there is a mysterious element of failures after failures which comes to an abrupt end though some say it is predictable!
This novelette, fairly well known and often read as a Christmas story, is quite different from any of the rest of Forsyth's novels.
It harkens back to an earlier setting and it also represents a style of writing that Forsyth left far behind when he embarked upon his famous novels of spycraft and terrorism.
The story could very well have been written by Nevil Shute; it bears all the hallmarks of that great writer of an earlier day.
An engaging little piece of work, very well worth the hour or so that it takes to read -- ideally aloud in front of a warm fire on a cold winter evening.
A quick read, only 123 pages with many full-page illustrations. A compelling and haunting story about a young RAF pilot on Christmas Eve in 1957 who is trying to navigate his way at night from Germany to England. Usually not a problem, but the airplane's radio and compass stopped working mid-flight. He's running out of fuel and the clouds have rolled in. How will he survive? Will he land safely or crash into the North Sea? Highly recommended to anyone who loves flying.
A great short Christmas ghost story a little reminiscent of "The Twilight Zone". You basically know the story a few pages in, but Forsyth does a great job fleshing out the details (he was an ex-RAF pilot and has a lot of detail - although there are a couple of internal discrepancies), and the illustrations really help. A nice way to remind readers that miracles happen in unexpected places.
It's a ghost story. It's a flying story. Forsyth, at this stage of his career, is in great storytelling mode. There's nothing about this story to dislike. Sparse, evocative and full of atmosphere. Recommended.
Atmostpheric and brilliant. The illustrated pictures portrays quiat a visualization and helps you see from the pilot's point of view. Short novella and spooky.
A wonderful storyThe best story I have read in many years liked the way it led you to gently to the conclusion
As an aero engineer I enjoyed this book. It's short, simple poignant.
A gripping story..... Strongly recommended for aviation enthusiasts......
Never heard about this book before.
Saw the twist at the end a mile away.
This might have been more interesting to me if I hadn't been inundated with this kind of story as a child. The ending was pretty obvious. I had guessed it before I was even 1/4 of the way in and by the halfway point, it was crystal clear. That being said, Frederick Forsyth does explain the workings of the bomber in a simplistic way that anyone can understand. Still, it was a surprising disappointment after reading The Day of the Jackal, which is perhaps the only mystery/thriller I've ever felt kept me on the edge of my seat.
I chose this because I was drawn to the illustrations by Lou Feck - sorry, but I'd never heard of him before. After a quick check on the internet I found that these illustrations look different to his sci-fi book covers.I'd buy this just to have the illustrations. The story was good too! I was glad that Forsyth wrote about how lonely it can be flying solo at night and how hostile the stars can appear. I thought the ending was written a bit clumsily (can such things be said about Forsyth?) which made it predictable.
This has become a bit of a weird Christmas tradition for me. The only reason I know of it is the annual Christmas Eve (or thereabouts) broadcast on As It Happens on CBC Radio. I suspect it has been a year or two since I've last listened to the broadcast (or a previous year's downloaded version), but I still hear Alan Maitland's voice as I read these words.I don't really understand why I like it so much, but I do. Maybe it is tradition for tradition's sake for me, but that works just fine for me.
A nice little novella in the Christmas ghost story tradition, with some elegant illustrations thrown in. It does nothing to surprise and there's more technical detail than atmospheric prose included, but it was perfectly decent.
It was amazing the 1st time I read it and it's been amazing every time since. My favorite Christmas book. Always sends goosebumps my way. It made me believe that there are paranormal happenings. I am a believer in ghost.
