https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/604123.History_of_the_Byzantine_Empire_324_1453_Volume_I
About 200 pages into the book, & I guess I just want to say there are some odd translation choices made.
(1) The Russians call the Iberian peninsula the "Pyrenean peninsula".
The translator retains the Russianism.
(2) Alternate spellings are given for some of the Arabic/Turkic names.
It's not a book about Arabic; it's a book about history.
And it doesn't matter how it's handled in the Russian original.
(3) Maybe it's normal for a Russian to write "fourth decade of the eleventh century", but if they changed every instance of that to the functionally equivalent "1030s", they could have saved a forest.
Recommended by my tutor, and it's a quite clear book with fluent words and sentences. It introduced some sources which are really important. Furthermore, personally I like the section of "literature, learning and art" at every end of chapters. In this term, it's quite suitable to beginners or those who are interested in that period. However, some knowledge or historical events are just a bit vague so that it's not easy for a beginner to get an overall comprehension of the history of Byzantine.
This was the basic reference in a year long survey on Byzantium that I took at Georgetown in 1974-75. The transition out of the Roman era into the high point of the Byzantine Empire is a really good story and I greatly enjoyed the class.
Little too much on art and culture and not enough on accomplishments and historical impact. 3 pages on the Nicaea council and 2 on the founding on constantinople, not enough for two cornerstones of their development and impact. All a good overview.
Spends more time describing his sources than discussing history.
I have the original 1 volume edition. Very good work which complements Ostrogorsky and should be read comparatively with Ostrogorsky's History of the Byzantine State.
History writing at its worse, reads more like a historical artifact than a story or fact.
