https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6555373-the-thing-on-the-doorstep
"I do not know—but others have strange things to tell of Edward and Asenath Derby, and even the stolid police are at their wits’ ends to account for that last terrible visit." - H.P. Lovecraft, The Thing on the DoorstepI must say I am particularly drawn to this harrowing H.P. Lovecraft tale of terror first published in 1937 since the author probes deeply into the various psychological and magical dimensions of consciousness, personal identity and personality via the story’s major theme: mind-transference.
Or, is Daniel Upton witnessing the first step in a shift in personal identity for Edward Derby as a result of Asenath using her powers to put herself in a man’s body?He was progressing fast in esoteric lore now that he had Asenath’s guidance.
Knock, knock! You're doomed!  TRULY SCARY TALE Daniel Upton and Edward Derby were best friends.However, Upton has to kill Derby to save him. Yes, you read right......this seems to sound weird but in this creepy tale, it’s explained the unusual predicament in which poor Derby is involved......and how death maybe is his only escape from it,... ...but even Upton maybe will be cursed too. Friendship is a heavy burden......in Lovecraft Country.
H.P. was dissatisfied with “The Thing on the Doorstep” and hesitated to submit it; although it was written in August of 1933, it was not published until more than three years later, in Weird Tales (January 1937).
Meanwhile, Lovecraft eked out an existence, in near poverty, in his Red Hook New Jersey flat.I can’t help but thinking of all this when I read, in “The Thing on the Doorstep,” how Asenath Derby, psychologically stronger than her author/ esthete husband Edward, gains more and more power over him, and how she takes frequent trips, leaving him a virtual prisoner in their Arkham home.
Later, she is rumored to have packed her bags and moved to New York City.
“There are horrors beyond life’s edge that we do not suspect, and once in a while man’s evil prying calls them just within our range.” Daniel Upton wants to tell you his story.
Well, she doesn’t need a man as much as, say, the man’s body.
I remember the nightmarish horror I felt as a child watching one of the Freddy Kreuger movies.
I’m sensitive to movies because I don’t watch many.
You might end up somewhere you don’t want to be.I looked on the net for more on this story and found this trailer.
'It is true that I have sent six bullets through the head of my best friend, and yet I hope to shew by this statement that I am not his murderer.' That's a promising beginning.
The narrator Daniel Upton is perfectly aware how his explanation might sound.
He even asks himself whether he was misled but, considering that others too have their own experiences of his friend Edward Derby and his wife Asenath, that's highly unlikely.
One expects a lot from a story as soon as it is revealed that the wife is from Innsmouth.
It would have been an awesome story.
Read online hereDescription: Daniel Upton, the story's narrator, begins by telling that he has killed his best friend, Edward Derby, and that he hopes his account will prove that he is not a murderer ...Opening: It is true that I have sent six bullets through the head of my best friend, and yet I hope to show by this statement that I am not his murderer.
A month of Halloween 2015 reads:#1: 3* Nobody True by James Herbert: fraudio#2: 4* The Horror Stories of Robert E.
Today I’d burn that damned Necronomicon and all the rest if I were librarian at Miskatonic.This is a thing I've been thinking myself for a while.
I'm no book burner, but, were we living in Arkham, the biggest hero would be the one who burned down the damned library.
Sure, they have other copies of the Necronomicon, but that copy at Arkham seems to be the one that is most convenient to all the necromancers and wizards and hell spawn.
Read this story and you have a better appreciation for Alan Moore's comic Providence.
The best H.P. Lovecraft short story I have read so far; I cannot even begin to describe how remarkable this was. This is one of those stories that will captivate you and remain with you to ponder upon days after you have read it.
However, he saw Edward grow up into an unassertive, weak-willed man, who eventually merely transferred his dependence on his parents onto his new wife, Asenath...
and would be nearly perfect, except for the fact that the narrative depends on the aggravating plot point that (view spoiler)[Asenath's body is unsatisfactory to the ancient spirit that had possessed it because the female brain is inferior.
Of course, it's also pointed out, as a secondary negative factor, that she's also not fully human, but the female thing just seems to be unacceptable.
It's a shame, because this story is near-perfect in ever other respect.
Wow. I wasn't sure what to I was going to think of this, as several state it's not his best of stories, but as I'm a new reader of Lovecraft, I have nothing to compare this to, so I enjoyed it hugely!The opening line of this story,  It is true that I have sent six bullets through the head of my best friend, and yet I hope to show by this statement that I am not his murderer,"  is enough to completely suck you in to the story. You'll find yourself getting lost in this piece of fiction, coming out
Wow. I wasn't sure what to I was going to think of this, as several state it's not his best of stories, but as I'm a new reader of Lovecraft, I have nothing to compare this to, so I enjoyed it hugely!The opening line of this story, 
You'll find yourself getting lost in this piece of fiction, coming out the other side of it dazed, horrified and delighted.This story has some of the best tension building, leaving you to decide what is happening to the ever changing Edward and his mysterious wife Asenath.The hints to black magic and the occult make this story really ominous, dark and brooding.
If this isn't one of his best, I'm excited to see what his other stories bring!
Loved it! About a guy that was always interested in esoteric/ supernatural phenomena that meets an odd girl and they both get married. Turns out she isn't who he thought she was and she stars trying to take the life/ body out of him slowly. There are references to Innsmouth and the smell of fish from locals.
Even though you get an idea of what is going to happen at the beginning, this story is still profoundly frightening. Lovecraft is not for the faint of heart, or those with a tenuous grip on reality. However, I highly recommend him for those who like to get that chill down their spine that only a convincing horror story can deliver. Being that I love most things horrifying, I don't know how I made it 25 years without reading any of his work, but I'm glad that I'm starting now.
I've probably read more things derived from Lovecraft than actual Lovecraft tales, but I've been making an effort to read Lovecraft more the last few years.I was a little leery heading into reading The Thing on the Doorstep simply because it is part of the Cthulhu mythos.
Lovecraft's writing is probably why I have abandoned many Lovecraft stories over the years.
I really enjoyed the storytelling despite the bloated writing.I'm in the mood to spend my October reading short horror so you will probably hear more about Lovecraft before the month has ended.
Aseneth, is there such a thing ?My hair bristles every time i read this.
. The shape rose up from the altar, and there were 500 that howled.
. The Hooded Thing bleated ‘Kamog!
. A minute before I was locked in the library, and then I was there where she had gone with my body—in the place of utter blasphemy, the unholy pit where the black realm begins and the watcher guards the gate.
. I saw a shoggoth—it changed shape.
. I’ll kill her if she ever sends me there again.
. I’ll kill that entity .
I’ll kill it!
Thrilling.Chilling.Killing.If there is a word that ends with -illing this story has them in spades.It's beautifully set up and executed and I rank it higher than some of his more famous works.
Part of the  Complete Works of H.P. Lovecraft , which can be found formatted for Nook and Kindle on CthulhuChick.com.Synopsis: The Thing on the Doorstep is a short story written by H.P. Lovecraft, part of the Cthulhu Mythos universe of horror fiction. It was written in August 1933, and first published in the January 1937 issue of Weird Tales.Daniel Upton, the story's narrator, begins by telling that he has killed his best friend, Edward Derby, and that he hopes his account will prove that he is
, which can be found formatted for Nook and Kindle on CthulhuChick.com.Synopsis: The Thing on the Doorstep is a short story written by H.P. Lovecraft, part of the Cthulhu Mythos universe of horror fiction.
It was written in August 1933, and first published in the January 1937 issue of Weird Tales.Daniel Upton, the story's narrator, begins by telling that he has killed his best friend, Edward Derby, and that he hopes his account will prove that he is not a murderer...My Thoughts: Another cautionary tale about the dangers of meddling with things beyond your ability to comprehend, about the dangers of those "from outside", and another in the Innsmouth cycle of stories.
You can't go wrong with this great story.
My first Lovecraft, but it won't be my last. The story itself was fine but unremarkable (well, remarkably weird and gruesome, but it didn't knock my socks off), but I was intrigued by all the hints of a larger created world. I'm inclined to learn more about Innsmouth, Miskatonic University, etc.
Good God. I want to stop reading Lovecraft's shorts, but I.can't.stop. He sucks me in and then I have nightmares!
Another one of those utterly strange Lovecraft tales which can carry neither explanation nor thorough review...
I loved this story. I loved the mystery and buildup as we head to a horrifying conclusion. It allows you to imagine things, which can be so much more rewarding than having them spelled out for you. And though it's pretty easy to catch on to what's happening, it's like a deer in the headlights sort of story. You can't look away as doom barrels toward you. It's also pretty f****d up when you think about it. Something Alan Moore highlights in a very disturbing scene in Providence.
Brilliant short classic horror story
**Leído para el Club de Lectura**Para la segunda entrega del Club de Lectura le tocó a Gloria elegir el libro, y se decidió por una selección de cuentos de Lovecraft.Ya había leído otras historias de Lovecraft anteriormente, y The Thing on the Doorstep no me presentó muchas sorpresas en cuanto al tipo de cuento que esperaba.
El cuento está muy bien como ejemplo de esta formula que el autor repite en otras historias, pero si ya leíste varios de este estilo no se destaca especialmente.
Este cuento al igual que 'La sombra sobre Innsmouth', esta contado desde el final y en retropectiva.
(view spoiler)[ ¿Realmente Asenath podía ocupar el cuerpo de Derly, y luego el del narrador?
O ¿todo lo sucedido son delirios de Edward, que por el maltrato recibido por parte de su esposa, se quiebra mentalmente padeciendo un desorden de la personalidad?
¿el narrador es el que se volvió loco?
¿mató Edward a su esposa por locura?
y también ¿mató el narrador a Derby por locura?
(hide spoiler)]Me agradó que se hiciera mención a la hipnosis como algo mágico.
Y me gustó el final que quedó como en duda.
Nice. I heard about this tale as I was reading Anne Rice's 4th Vampire Chronicle: The Tale of the Body Thief. Being as thorough as possible and with more free time than anyone should be allowed while on working hours, I decided to read the story before continuing with the Body Theif. It was wonderfully chilling & macabre. The main character and his horrible (view spoiler)[ succubus of a wife killing him while taking posession of his body (hide spoiler)] was interesting to say the least. Good
Nice. I heard about this tale as I was reading Anne Rice's 4th Vampire Chronicle: The Tale of the Body Thief. Being as thorough as possible and with more free time than anyone should be allowed while on working hours, I decided to read the story before continuing with the Body Theif. It was wonderfully chilling & macabre. The main character and his horrible (view spoiler)[ succubus of a wife killing him while taking posession of his body  (hide spoiler)] was interesting to say the least. Good tale!!
I seem to have a fervent longing for nightmares and chills because I can't seem to stop reading Lovecraft.
I literally have to force myself to stop reading his novellas in order to make time for other books but I just can't seem to do so lately.
The Thing on the Doorstep gets 4 stars only because I'm comparing to Lovecraft's best work, and as twisted as this story was, it's not his best, but still memorable.
The prose is written in the usual "Diary and Journal" style, and Lovecraft is the master at this style.
You are literally transported into the mind of his characters.
Nice Lovecraft novella/short story. I guess I would have liked to read it in the original, but I found several free Kindle editions on Amazon in French, so I just figured I would use it as an excuse to get some French reading done. It works just as nicely in French as it does in English!
The idea of souls moving from one body to the next is a fascinating subject, and it's a theme H.P. Lovecraft used more than once.
The theme of soul-switching is used both in this story and in The Shadow Out of Time, although the two stories are quite different in other ways.
Critics tend to think "Shadow" is better than "Doorstep" and I believe this is probably the case.What I did like about the story were the friendships and relationships in it; two friends growing up together and one going off and getting married.
¿Nunca han tenido un compadre con el que cada fin de semana juegan póquer mientras pistean, hablan de películas de terror, de libros guarros y de deportes pero de pronto su amigo se les casa y su domadora es tan controladora que ya solo le permite ver comedias románticas y cada fin de semana se lo lleva secuestrado a bodas, a bautizos y a los viñedos?
Tampoco habla de libros guarros ni de deportes sino de hipotecas, de ascensos laborales ("me ha ido muy bien, no me puedo quejar, ahora soy gerente") y de los malditos viñedos, aunque entre líneas te dice "ten misericordia y dame un plomazo en la frente, por favor".
3.5 stars, rounded down to 3 for the less-than-subtle allusions to his racism.I love the way Lovecraft ties in his Cthulhu mythos with several stories and I enjoyed this one for all the references to places and people from his other works. Although I wasn't familiar with this particular story and the plot was fairly predictable, the slowly building sense of dread and realization for the main protagonist was very well done.
