https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/767958.Leisure
To do philosophy is to realize the naturally essential inclination of the human mind toward totality.I often wonder why is Achilles always resting in The Iliad; at one point it almost feels like he is angry not with Agamemnon taking the slave girl but with Agamemnon denying his right to leisure.
This definition does fit into what I understand as essentially Achilles: the involuntariness of his action and the harmony of his anger with the totality of nature.
The definitive analysis, and rebuke, of our society's obsession with productivity. Pieper explains why the inability to enjoy leisure is also closely related to sloth and despair. "One can only be bored if the spiritual power to be leisurely has been lost." Leisure is rooted in wonder, and therefore brings us a lasting joy that we cannot find in the mere temporary cessation of work ("vacation"). Pieper shows the perverse effects of thinking that something is better simply because it is harder, and offers a corrective that will prove salubrious to most anyone living in the 21st century. Highly recommended.
"Pieper's message to us is plain. The American democracy is not blissfully immune to the Western blight; we have in fact done our part in generating the totalitarian epidemic. The idolatry of the machine, the worship of mindless know-how, the infantile cult of youth and the common man--all this points to our peculiar leadership in the drift toward the slave society. "--from the 1952 NYT Book Review A lovely, contrarian work of philosophy. Pieper watches how Socrates' prerequisite for philosophy (wonder) was replaced by Hegel's (doubt). Leisure, as he imagines it, is not idleness, but glad and sustaining astonishment.
This book, which actually consists of two essays, is very short; I read the entire thing in only three sittings and probably could have read it in less time if I had not gone back and re-read several portions of it.
It is, at the same time, one of the best books I have ever read and one of the greatest defenses of and introductions to philosophizing that I have yet come across.
I recommend this book to anyone interested in philosophy and in living an authentically human life.Thanks very much to the friend who sent this gem my way!
Pieper argues that the distinction is false: philosophizing (the subject of the next essay) is an essential part of human nature.
It is taking the time to contemplate Things As They Are. So what is philosophizing?
Pieper also asserts that eliminating religion cuts out the basis of culture or philosophizing.
But lack of belief in God empties out philosophy.It is important to understand that Pieper stands in part in the tradition of the Romantic German Idealists.
S. Lewis, who always searches for the grounds and justification for holding any belief, theologically, philosophically, or even matters of fact.
What an astounding little book, my first introduction to Josef Pieper, other than him being footnoted in other books I've read.
The two were written near to one another in time, so their themes play right into one another.This is an important book to read for anyone interested in education, philosophy, theology, or culture.
It should be read by anyone--and young people in particular--anxious to come to some conclusions about the nature of society."If you've ever wondered why rest doesn't feel restful, you need this book.If you've ever wondered why our culture feels so work-focused, you need this book.If you've ever wondered why the idea that knowledge begins with doubt just sounds wrong, you need this book.If you've ever wondered, then you are engaging in leisure and philosophy, and you need this book.
dense, loquacious, pragmatic The Good:  contains some real gems; socially relevant theme The Bad : dense philosophical writing;Pieper's book, Leisure:The Basis of Culture is about work and play, labor and leisure, the ultimate point/counter-point of our lives. The initial attraction of the book is based on the assumption that the concept of leisure can be discussed lucidly and without the erudite language that typically accompanies philosophical writings. This is a misconception, as the work cou
: dense philosophical writing;Pieper's book, Leisure:The Basis of Culture is about work and play, labor and leisure, the ultimate point/counter-point of our lives.
Pieper garrulously touches on all of these things in his elaboration on how society should view work, leisure, and celebrations in order to coincide with a theistic perspective.One of the most important concepts touched upon in the book is the act of philosophizing itself.
The basis of this conception of philosophy is the conviction that the greatness of man consists in his being capax universi."Pieper has identified a critical deficiency in our society, which is a lack of philosophizing.
This book represents Germany and most of western society rejecting the mindless slavery of work for a true understanding of prosperity.Pieper's strongest insight is that leisure is an act of celebration.
As a result, leisure has a kind of right or claim in the face of "total labor," a grim prospect for Europe under the yoke of fascism.I believe the book is worth reading in part because the U.S. is struggling with the oppression of total labor.
Leisure should not be a struggle.Pieper makes some other cogent arguments.
Maybe 4.5 stars is more accurate. I didn't read The Philosophical Act, which comprises the last half of the edition I read. I led a Colloquium discussion on this book at Baylor University on Nov. 10, 2014.My biggest criticism is Pieper's view of work. I'd like to know whether or not he views pre-lapsarian work as "practical" and "useful" (in a negative sense) as he views modern work.
A wonderful little book.
10 out of 5 stars. Essential reading.
The main points are desperately needed, especially in our time, and I plan to come back and read this again and again.The first part shows us that leisure, properly enjoyed, is not merely rest and relaxation from work; it is not a break in your work schedule.
God rested on the 7th day of creation, not as a break from work but to appreciate what he had created.
And this ultimately draws us to the final cause of Creation, God himself; in seeking and wondering about reality itself one cannot avoid this.My summaries only scratch the surface, as Pieper shows us it only can.
However, it's not a time for poring over tomes and exerting ourselves in reasoning: The best philosophical truths may literally be a gift from God when we make ourselves present to Him. We should seek to not be constantly be busy in order to pursue these truths.
To constantly busy ourselves is to cheapen our humanity.The book is actually two essays.
The first concerns this unique perspective on leisure, and the second is a defense of philosophy as the ancients would have understood it: an unending quest to pursue perfect truth, not abstracting away the complexities of the world and intertwining itself with the eternal truths of theology.
A thoroughly enjoyable and instructive read.
Leisure, Pieper writes, is the “basis for Divine worship” and this is, per the subtitle of this book, “the basis of culture.”*The second essay, “The Philosophical Act,” carries the same themes forward.
It would be interesting to examine the basis for such a perspective from the point of view of evolutionary science, i.e., did a mind designed for survival develop a capacity for the highest levels of abstraction that then could extend the need for survival into a divine world where we, as spirit, could survive our inevitable physical death?*Quoting Plato from Theaetetus, this philosopher, as the articulator of divine visions, stands in contrast to common working men ‘“who do not even know how to wear their cloak like a gentleman, and still less how to prize the good life of gods and men in harmonious phrases.’”
I've been interested in studying a Christian perspective on leisure, which led me to this and one other book (there was actually a third book by Jurgen Moltmann titled A Theology of Play but it is out of print and my budget does not allow purchasing almost $100 books!).
You might see it as a long footnote, or perhaps a level up from the first lecture.Overall, anyone who likes philosophy and theology, or who is pondering how Christians ought to think of work and leisure would appreciate this book.And, if anyone likes this review and wants to send me Moltmann's A Theology of Play, thank you in advance!
Piper explains how leisure is different from work. Leisure is not idleness, but a ceasing from work for productivity's sake in order to "affirm the universe" or to celebrate life. He pulls from Aristotle who says that leisure is the purpose of life and what makes life worth living. The author didn't emphasize this idea with the Christian tradition of the Sabbath (although the author is Christian), but the book helped me understand the purpose of the Sabbath. The second half is an essay on philosophy in general (and also very good).
I picked up this book expecting it to contain something like a Catholic critique of the Protestant work ethic. That is not exactly the case—instead it provides a strong defence of philosophy, and more broadly the very idea of the liberal arts, against the utilitarianism of the modern world of total work. However, it is more than just that. Pieper's "Leisure" also contains a definition, and a history, of philosophy, and explains how it is intimately connected to theology. To top it all of, the book is full of great citations and the prose is beautiful.
This little book is mind-blowing. Pieper makes a case for leisure--the liberal arts--as an integral aspect of humanity. What he says is largely counter-culture, and has me thinking of all sorts of ways "work," which dominates American value sets especially, is soul-sucking and counter-productive to reaching our full potential. His solution, however, was not what I was expecting and still has me thinking!
I quite disappointed at the end of this book when he mentioned that Christian philosophy is the way to attain truth. It is not persuasive since he hadn't given an account of Christian theology in relation with philosophy in general. But the rest of this book is excellent. What I want to ask him is while Philosophy is about doubt and wonder, science also concerns about wonder and questioning. If they are very similar in the sense of questioning, then what are the distinctions between them?
I added it to my "want" list, it looks so interesting & "nice", then found it immediately a used bookstoreI'd only been in twice.The convenience of it seemed almost dreamlike,a mystery for the ages, I didn't think I'd find this tome in a shop for ages.--I was really quite impressed. Will read it soon, though deep down I've a feeling it'll leave me quite depressed.
Previously Read:2013 (11-16 September)2014 (23-28 December)2016 (31 August-6 September)
He talks deeply of the vocational movement and this quote hit me: "It should go without saying that not everything that cannot exactly be categorized as 'useful' is useless." And he quotes Hegel, "...there is not only use, there is also blessing." Those that pause to find leisure and contemplate are not useless but rather a blessing to society in their thoughtfulness.
;-) ) 'Intimate Journals' - "One must work, if not from inclination, at least from despair, since, as I have fully proved, to work is less wearisome than to amuse oneself." It IS easier to be busy than to be deeply thoughtful...This book would be far easier to just quickly read through or scan over, but I would say that wouldn't be done in true Leisure...
This edition of Pieper's work includes both Leisure: The Basis of Culture and The Philosophical Act. These two collections of essays, although not written as a single book, nonetheless read well in a single volume as they have a good deal of overlap in theme and topic.
Pieper's basic premise is that the basis for culture is contemplation.
Pieper's discussion of wondering at the world is closely related to his discussion of contemplation, thus the two parts work well together.
Although the pages do contain very easy-to-track footnotes and there is an index, a bibliography, and an afterword (everything properly done); it takes the author a long while before he makes cogent points.
There's a lot of convenient 'cherry-picking' from the statements of great men.
Once the argument begins in earnest (approximately halfway through) it's thoughtful enough.
He makes decent sense.
I wound up enjoying it more than I thought I would.
Not a book to keep around very long; good for a brief dose of woolgathering.
Overall: not great, but not bad either.
Revisiting this work which I had not read since my undergraduate days was such a pleasure that it became the base of an article I wrote for the Intercollegiate Review, which will double as a worthy review for it:https://medium.com/@stephenheiner/lei...
A pretty slippery book. Philosophy is the highest thing for a human to do! But sort of not as well.Much I appreciated in this book. Much frustrated me.
This book is an ever-fresh reminder of what human beings are really made for in our noise-hungry age. Pieper is concise, clear, and profound. An unforgettable book.
As such, the modern concept of 'intellectual worker' resulted in the line being blurred between the two, where they are both 'servile' now in function, and merely differ by degree.For Kant, the knowledge is born not form mere perception, but rather the work of investigation and inquiry - he even explicitly said then in opposition to the romantic and intuitive philosophers of his time.
Aquinas, however, thought that highest moral activity is effortlessly insofar as it arises from love, not any sort of ethical or physical struggle.—Idleness, or acedia, was considered by Kierkegaard to be the 'despair of weakness', that is, not wanting to be oneself.
Moreover, leisure is time and activity to make us more human, not to rejuvenate us so that we can work again.
In short, life is not all about work, though that is the direction the world was heading post-WWII when Pieper wrote this, and it is the course we have steadfastly followed since then.The accompanying essay on philosophy is likewise profound and insightful, but somewhat hefty for the casual reader, despite Pieper's obvious attempts to limit and simplify his points.
While I probably would make a stronger case for theology as provider of ultimate answers, Pieper's point that theology is content with mystery is well-taken.
