https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/259789.The_Blood_of_the_Lamb
I liked Fault a lot, and so Green's liking it nudged me to read it.DeVries was born in Chicago, graduated from Calvin in 1931, was editor of Poetry magazine for years, joined the staff of the New Yorker, published 23 novels, and was known primarily for his wit.
It's a book about loss, death, grief, and its last third (SPOILER alert from here on in) is in particular about the narrator Don Wanderhope's eleven year old daughter Carol dying of cancer--leukemia--something that DeVries had experienced himself less than a year before he had published his book.
As one character says in the book, “Show me that God exists and I’ll really start to despair.” Why, because the tragic absurdity of a life where a kid is dies slowly and painfully from some untreatable illness makes no sense and is the result of winning at the cosmic lottery of bad luck, but if one believes that there is a God who makes choices and answers prayers, then there is something really fucking wrong with a God who could make things otherwise but has chosen to give kids diseases like this and instead of say giving them an easy death, let them suffer.
This is a marvelous read.
The mirthful first half, however, fails to balance against the devastatingly heartfelt second half.
We will again watch the first blizzard from her window like figures locked snug in a glass paperweight.
'Pick one out and follow it to the ground!' she will say again." It is his pleading promise to live wholly and fully with his doomed daughter.
This book is like an incredible snowflake that everyone should read and 'follow it to the ground.' After reading this book you too will not be able to "decline the burden of resumption."
The beginning of the book reads a bit more like a satire, regarding the Dutch in Chicago and immigrant culture in general, and was fairly approachable.
I nearly returned the book to the library multiple times as I got bogged down in the first half to two thirds of the book, then resolutely plowed through till it got to Don's daughter Carol, who made Don as a character and the book in general much better.The focus of this book, however, is supposedly on man's relationship with God. I think this book would make an excellent addition to a reading list for an entry level philosophy class, or a Christian theology class, or something like that, and provide fodder for discussion.
I wish I knew more about the religious and political culture of the late 50s/early 60s; I think that would help the reading of this book.
The greatest experience open to man then, is the recovery of the commonplace."The book has many humorous moments and profound insights, as Wanderhope struggles with religion as he tries to deal with the death of his only child.
"I believe that man must learn to live without those consolations called religious, which his own intelligence must by now have told him belong to the childhood of the race.
Human life means nothing.
A man delights in all of these knowing himself to be no more.
I first heard about "The Blood of the Lamb" a few years ago through a recommendation from John Green.
But when taken as snapshots in one man's life, "The Blood of the Lamb" is a really interesting study of religion and philosophy, how the two intersect and where they diverge; why some people cling to their beliefs, and why others refuse, or are incapable of any sort of spiritual belief.
And because it's a book that dives deep, it touches on all kinds of big universal themes: loss, sickness, and suffering.
In other words, it's not the most uplifting book.
But it is 100% something John Green would be interested in, and it has its memorable moments.
It's a semi-autobiographical account of the author's struggles with religion over the course of his life, and it ends up being kind of a defense of the idea that not everything can or should be redeemed - "Time heals nothing - which should make us the better able to minister." The author seems to give up on the possibility of satisfaction, but he continues anyway.
"'Let there be light,' we cry, and only the dawn breaks." Compassion is possible, it's beautiful, but it's all.
I found this book in the laundry room of my apt.
The cover said something like, "the most well written and most extraordinary book of our time".
So i thought, i better read it.
It was surprisingly great!
The story is over such a long period of time that i keep thinking it was 2 or 3 different books, but each season of the main characters life is so amazing to read.
I also learned later that the author used to work for new york magazine and this was one of his most serious books.
"What baffles me is the comfort people find in the idea that somebody dealt this mess. Blind and meaningless chance seems to me so much more congenial -- or at least less horrible. Prove to me that there is a God and I will really begin to despair."
Gripping narrative that engages with big philosophical life questions and punctuated with laugh-out-loud funny moments as well as deep human insight.
Started reading side by side with Grace Paley's short story collection, but I enjoyed this far more than Paley's book (though it's an unfair comparison, like comparing apples and oranges, but still, I'm a sucker for a good old-fashioned story like the one De Vries weaves).Will definitely read more of De Vries's works—highly recommended if you can get past the rather old-school formal voice of the narrator.Quotes:"Dr. Simpson, do you believe in a God?" ...
If you read only one book by Peter De Vries, let it be this one. His incredible vocabulary, his dexterous verbal skills, and his pungent humor are all on display here, as in all his novels. But this novel was written in the wake of the death to leukemia of his young daughter, and he pours his heartache and his search for the God of his youth into this novel.Hilarious comedic set pieces, a heart-tugging narrative of a young girl's illness, and a search for faith, all in one novel. Not a bad way to spend an evening.
Most of the book doesn't dwell too much on tragedies and loss, though it begins and ends with it full circle.
However, the middle is mainly filled with philosophizing about religion and medicine as well as the first person protagonist's womanizing and overall experiences being young and a little frivolous with life's experiences.I think those who want a glimpse of Chicago in the 1940s and 1950s and also who are curious to know what the religious and medical thinking was like in the area will not be disappointed.
I enjoyed this book but I will leave the review to James Calvin Schaap.Excerpt:I finished Peter De Vries's Blood of the Lamb last night, for the second time.
Scared to death, they break out with--what else?--the doxology.But far and away, Blood of the Lamb is not a funny novel--not at all, even though forty years ago, when I first read it, I thought it was a hoot.
At twenty, I read Peter De Vries's Blood of the Lamb and laughed.Forty years later, I almost cried...
De Vries is frequently compared to Thurber or Mark Twain - he has rare gift of writing with great humor and tragedy, often in the same paragraph.There were two main things I got out of this short but powerful read.
You may get some insight into how the 'Silent Generation' dealt with money, a desire for sophistication (and the problems that go with it), sex, and God.
'Blood of the Lamb' is mainly known, however, for the loss of the narrator's only daughter to a battle with leukemia.
De Vries lost a daughter himself to this evil cancer, and the writing of the last 75 pages is beautiful but harrowing.
"I now mastered the art of remaining half drunk while having lost the joy of drink.
Alcohol and barbiturates between them afforded a few hours of tumbling dreams, like those somersaults of men pictured in space fantasies as floating beyond the gravity of any world, life or death.""Rage and despair are indeed carried about in the heart, but privately, to be let out on special occasions, like savage dogs for exercise, occasions in solitude when God is cursed, birds stoned from the trees or the pillow hammered in darkness.
Even the exchange of news about their children has often the quality of gossip."
This book was written in the early 1960s about the 1930s and you have to get through a fair amount of Portnoy's Complaint -like casual misogyny, immigrant family shenanigans and the youthful selfishness and weird passiveness of the young male protagonist before getting to the Serious Part which deals with faith and death.
The way it dealt with the helplessness of caring for someone with a serious illness and the cruelty of both cancer and its treatment was wrenching and true.
I had read the non fiction book The Emperor of Maladies which contained extensive details about mid-century cancer treatments and this novel felt like a fictionalized version of that.
Author Peter De Vries, having lost his daughter to childhood leukemia, dares to find the humor in the raw material of his own life to describe the fictional life of Don Wanderhope.
Don (like De Vries) was reared in Calvinism and through education, reading, sexual awakening, and terrible luck becomes a buffeted and shell-shocked man, quietly resigned to the tragicomedy of life.
Man is inconsolable, thanks to that eternal “Why?” when there is no Why?--that question mark twisted like a fishhook in the human heart.
Perhaps you will take my word on faith-- or just observe the pageant of life yourself to know that this, like all else, is possible.
Maybe it's because it took me over a month to read and I wasn't fully committed or because I just didn't get where the story was going for the first 60 pages.
But, all of a sudden the story clicked and I realised how unique this book is.
When I'm older and wiser, this book will be everything - right now I'm too young to get all the deep stuff or understand why he uses 10 pages to talk about religion he kind of believes in, but anyone who reads this will appreciate the beauty of De Vries language and how it influences thoughts while hurting your heart.
At once both witty and deeply serious, this book struck a chord with me as one who has struggled with doubt and often been one to question the given assumptions of the way things are.
I recommend this book to anyone who has experienced or is interested in experiencing the grey areas of life that don't have any clear answers.
While I think the book's interpretation of the Calvinist take on the Christian faith hit closer to home for readers in 1961 than it does in 2015, it nonetheless will resonate with anyone familiar with the context.
I first read this as an 11 or 12 year old when it appeared in one of the Reader's Digest condensed books collections.
The story always stuck in my mind though because it resonated so much with my own life since I read it only a few years after my own younger brother died of leukemia.When I found the "real" book at the Friends of the Library sale several years ago, I bought it and began reading with some trepidation.
I shouldn't have worried - it's a wonderful book, far better than I could have imagined all those years ago, and it means even more.
this is a stunning book by a stunning writer -- he has total command of language, is hilarious and profound, and capable of great emotional depth -- this is the second de vries novel I've read and I will read more -- the only minor thing I didn't like about this was that towards its very brutal/tragic/sad ending it got a little too explicit in its religious questions for my particular taste -- but everything he says is insightful and profound and challenging ... de vries is a must read for anyone looking for serious (but hilarious) fiction ....
One of the few absolutely perfect books. Semi-autobiographical, the first half of the book is the narrator's life with his family in Chicago, and his stay in a sanatorium while he is treated for TB. The second half deals with his marriage, his wife's death, and his tender relationship with his daughter (who was based on his actual daughter, Emily). Sad, poignant, and funny, it's a rewarding reading experience.
After reading this a great long time ago, I told my husband, "This author had to have experienced this first-hand." These were the days before the Internet, so I had to do a little research, and sure enough, I guessed right. It manages to simultaneously amuse, disturb you and ultimately break your heart.
This is a beautiful story of life, full of shadows and light. How we deal with and even find humor in pain and suffering and where we stand on the faith spectrum. This is my first De Vries. His writing style flows effortlessly and it's over before it seems possible, but not that terrible style that feels as if the author just quit writing. I look forward to reading more of his books.
How do you laugh and cry on the same page? In the same sentence? Let Mr. DeVries show you how. Not recommended for any father with a young daughter. Wait until she's all grown up and healthy. Otherwise, this book will keep you up most nights.I've read this book about 10-15 times and each reading is a pleasure and a sorrow.
Gallows HumorThe Blood of the Lamb: I always thought I wanted to write a book that combined intense comedy and tragedy in the same instant, and this book does it in what I take to be the climax of the story: a father devastated by grief expresses his rage at God through a slapstick attack.
The Blood of the Lamb is an excruciating book about the problem of evil (why a benevolent God would let horrible things happen to good people, even children).
As you might gather from the last quotation, the book is angry, even in its comedy, and for good reason.
What shall I say?
Most of DeVries' books are witty, if not hilarious.
Peter Devries was raised a Christian.
This book offers the answer, offering the picture of protagonist facing the darkness of a meaningless and painful world.
The picture is a true one as far as it goes; DeVries evidently forgot what his Dutch Reformed culture taught him about the effects of sin on God's creation.
The world is not what He made it.
Although the book is almost unreadably painful, I defy anyone to put it down once they have started it.
This books starts as a very funny comedy about a young man in a religious immigrant family in Chicago and eventually transforms into a deeply moving exploration of a father's experience of of his daughter's struggle with leukemia. I'm not sure why I didn't give it 5 stars. Perhaps it's because it took me a bit to adapt to the change in tone. It's quite an extraordinary book.
Genial libro. Que buena forma de seguir la relación con la fe con sus silencios y gritos de angustia. Muchas frases para subrayar. Muchos cuestionamientos que ponen palabras a los propios. Pone en evidencia cómo a mi parecer, para creer se debe cuestionar, insultar, desmerecer también.Recomendado x JCF
This book is written in an intellect far superior than my own. It took me longer then average to read, for this reason combined with the dated prose. It is highly quotable though and the story is tragic so this could appeal to a lot of people. " Man is inconsolable, thanks to that eternal "Why?" when there is no Why, that question mark twisted like a fishhook into the human heart. "
