https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21326.Fables_Vol_1
I remember being somewhat taken aback the first time I read an original Fairy Tale.
Gaiman's 'Sandman' is notable for some remarkable insights into the nature of fairy tales and how they comment on what has changed in our modern storytelling tradition--and what hasn't.
Likewise Mignola has recalled to us some of the less pleasant aspects of fairy stories in 'Hellboy', where the madness of these myths is hardly forgotten.Hellboy was a decade before Fables, and Sandman twenty years before, but Fables is, if anything, a regression, doing less with myth than earlier comics.
After reading this first volume of the Fables series, it hit me all of a sudden - Tatiana.
Perhaps volume nine happens to be a bad apple in an otherwise excellent bunch, or perhaps that particular volume wasn't made to be read as a standalone (IMO, the first three can be enjoyed individually), whatever the reason, I found myself putting off a series which I'd previously been certain I'd love.
I've learned my lesson and am now breezing through these fantastic volumes (I'll be starting number four soon) and becoming more and more addicted to the characters, the world and the humour.Will you enjoy this?
The fairy tale characters' homeland has been taken over by an enemy called The Adversary and have fled to the mundane world we live in.
Snow White is a politician who works for the Mayor, King Cole, and The Big Bad Wolf is the sheriff.Snow White's sister, Rose Red, has apparently been murdered and the crime must be solved.
The solving of the crime and big reveal wasn't really anything special, but there is a great premise set up with a lot of potential.
Lovely lovely lovely.
You and your pasty skin better hope you didn't steer me wrong.____________________________Luckily, for Gibsy and all his friends acolytes, he will not be meeting an untimely demise via shrimp death.Because I really liked this book.The art is some of the most stunning art I have ever come across.
That's better anyway.Snow White's sister, Rose Red, appears to have been murdered, and the big bad wolf (otherwise known as Bigby) is on the case.
I'm hoping that future volumes can flesh out individual backstories because I want more.So Gibsy shall live to see the sun rise and fall at least one more time.
3 StarsSo this Graphic Novel was very reminiscent of 'Once Upon a Time' for me.
Our fairy tale creatures have been thrown into modern-day world and basically just have to deal with it...
Beyond being our introduction to the characters within the world, and some personalities that maybe don't exactly meet expectations, this first volume is a murder mystery.
Rose Red has disappeared, leaving behind an apartment splattered with blood and a big old mess.
This volume was so much fun, guys!!
I thoroughly enjoyed getting to see how all these characters were getting on in the big, wide world of norms.
Legends in Exile by Bill Willingham and a team of illustrators begin the Fables series of adult graphic novels. This is a very imaginative extension of fables such as Snow White, Old King Cole, the big bad wolf, Jack and the Beanstalk, etc. The idea is that the fables were exiled from their home lands by a common enemy, The Adversary, and relocated to New York but maintained a community of exiles called Fable Town. Very entertaining and creative. One of the best scenes is a self-pitying monologue by Pinocchio.
Why am I just starting to read these? They are awesome
Welcome, queer folk of the modern age, welcome!The queer folk of the Fabled lands of legends are now living as exiles in your very queer world indeed and they seem to have adapted very well by creating this very secret society called Fabletown.
Don't be alarmed, queer person, the Big Bad Wolf is now the Sheriff of this secret society and he's now a very good wolf indeed.
And thus, you are pulled inside this story, lost inside this story and finally, yearning for more tales from this very secret society.
Or are they just tales, queer folk of the modern age?
Until next time, queer folk of the modern age!
Since I'm a huge fan of fairytales from all over the globe, it was just a matter of time before I started this charming comic series about a number of fairytale characters living in our world in exile after some "adversary" took their kingdoms (yes, all of them, one after another).This first volume introduces us to the colourful and diverse community they have established which is basically run by Snow White.
So the book is witty and fun and beautiful and I will definitely continue this series (the printed versions since they will look lovely on my shelf).As a side note, and this has nothing to do with this comic or my rating of it, I'm just saying: Snow White is NOT the sister of Rose Red. The fairytale is called Schneeweißchen und Rosenrot.
It's one of the biggest comics ever created, spanning over 20 volumes giving you a massive amount of storylines featuring some of the biggest named fairy tale character's ever created.
Giving us a wide range of different characters, and even at that, feels like it's just peeking into the top of it all.
The pacing isn't half bad either giving you a solid mystery that makes you wonder who could have done it.
Bad: Some of it is overwhelming, and the characters presented feel like you should know them before you do.
I'm hoping I fall in love with later volumes like many here have.
???Maybe to some people character soup is funny on its own without any kind of actual cleverness?
I mean, I haven’t been that big of a fan of mystery story since I was like 10 and read most of the Agatha Christies.
I don’t get this thing of taking fairy tales and going, “What if we made all of the characters super unpleasant?!
This story just didn’t have the same immediate resonance, and I don’t necessarily think it was trying for that.
It mostly just seemed like it was going for making characters unpleasant, not necessarily more realistic.
That said, this was a really fun read, and I loved how many classic characters were represented.Volume 1 follows Wolf, who is a detective investigating the case of Rose Red's apparent death, as her sister, Snow White, tags along.
None of the details really match up, so Wolf and Snow are forced to investigate everyone they can as they seek out the truth behind her sudden disappearance.
I was pleasantly surprised and now I'm looking forward to continuing the series soon.
Excellent! The characters of fables have been forced to leave their enchanted lands and are living among us. In this story the wolf of three little pigs fame is a detective in human form. He is called to investigate what looks like the murder of Rose Red, sister to Snow White.  Great art work and writing. Loved all the fairy tale characters! 😊
This was a pretty fun read, though since the premise was better than the execution, my rating is actually a 3.5.
Fairy tale and nursery rhyme characters are forced to make it in the big city after their worlds are overthrown by the mysterious "Adversary".
Bigby Wolf owns a detective agency and he's hired by Snow White to investigate the disappearance of her sister, Rose Red. In this tale meant strictly for grown-ups, Jack, of Beanstalk fame, is quite the social climber, and Prince Charming turns out to be a real heel.
There'll be no happily ever afters for this bunch.
3.5 starsSuch an interesting and fun concept! I definitely enjoyed reading this volume which represents the perfect introduction to this story's characters and the world they live in. This volume is like one big investigation and I really enjoyed trying to figure out what happened to Rose Red. Also, Snow White is a bad ass. Love her. Looking forward to reading the sequel!
Çok güzeldi ya :')Masal kahramanların bir araya toplanması çok hoşuma gitti. Once Upon A Time özlediğimi fark ettim okurken :D
Rose red and Snow White are sisters.
They have been chased out of their own lands into our world to survive.
They they must live among us.
The big bad wolf is the detective of the story.
This is a who-dunnit story and it's good.
We are meeting all the characters and the world they created among the mundy's who don't know they exist.
I don't think the art is anything special and I really enjoy the story.
The art gets the job done.
I hope they keep adding characters for this.
They are combing all of the fable stories, modern and antique.
Worlds in which Boy Blue, Red Riding Hood, Beauty and her Beast, Pinocchio, and more each have full lives only hinted at in our own versions of their stories.
He is steady and inventive and illustrates these fables with power and grace.Personally, this is one of my favorite books to pick up every time a new collected volume comes out.
It just gets better and better.” Really, the next rough patch doesn’t crop up until volume thirteen,* so that’s a pretty good spread.In any case, if you’re a mature reader, I highly recommend Fables as an entertaining, thoughtful exploration of characters with whom you’re likely familiar in circumstances that are new and fresh.
Basically, all the fairy tales and magical creatures were living somewhat happily but divided in their "Homeland," but then this mysterious enemy called "The Adversary" came and picked them all off one by one.
Well, a really twisted fairy tale-esque story.Which brings me to the lovely characters.
I loved how a lot of the most well-known fairy tale characters had very unexpected personalities like Prince Charming is a poor womanizer who sponged off of every girl he met then slept with while Snow White is the assistant deputy mayor.
I have finally caught up on the current 70 issues (Vol. 1-10) of ‘Fables’ and am at a loss of words about how great this series truly is.
But so far, ‘Fables’ is a magical epic classic in the making, surely to cement itself as one of the best graphic stories in years.
The way Willingham and company has brought (and bridged) a plethora of traditional folklore tales into modernity with a believable mythical history is nothing short of genius.
This series truly has everything needed to grasp, wrangle, shock, and posses the readers attention, direly leaving them asking for more.
Bullet Review:A VERY enjoyable read even for a mystery/who-dunnit (these are touchy for me).Can't wait for the rest of the series!
I’m sure Rose Red plays a big part later on but this book is concerned more with the done-in-one murder mystery than it is in explicitly detailing to the reader all about the world of the series, etc.
The genius of this approach is that Bill Willingham introduces the cast of the series, gives us their characters and their situations within the self-contained story, so it manages to do everything a first volume should while also presenting itself as a standalone book, meaning everyone from casual readers looking for a good story to those who’re in for the long haul can get something out of this first volume.I’m not usually one for crime dramas/police procedurals, and the reveal at the end isn’t at all original, but the story in this first volume is an entertaining whodunit thanks to its colourful cast.
I feel like reviewing each issue as I go, so take that, reader.Fables: Chapter #1 -- "Old Tales Revisited":There are times when everything is stacked against a work.
Thus, I will, of course, be continuing with the next issue right away (probably tonight).Fables: Chapter #2 -- "The (Un)Usual Suspect":So the investigation has begun and Bigby, the humanized Big Bad Wolf, is being fleshed out as a character.
I am sure Bill Willingham thinks it's clever to put the Fables in the modern world, but why, I wonder, would the Fables have to fight their natures?
For a fairy tale addict like myself, it was fun to guess who each character was before their names are mentioned, and I made notes to look some of them up.
As you can tell, I liked the Big Bad Wolf a lot and Snow White.
I liked that this was essentially a mystery story, with our Wolfish sheriff who serves as the sleuth, with a little help from Snow White and others.
I look forward to continuing and exploring more of the Fairy Tale characters' adventures in the real world.
Grabbed this comic off the bargain pile because the premise seemed promising: all the characters from fairy tales have been exiled in New York City because of some mysterious adversary that slaughtered their people and forced them out of their fairy tale land.
If the authors had simply stuck to THAT premise, it would have made for a cool story.Instead, the first volume disintegrates into nothing more than a comparatively lame murder mystery (in the style of "Clue") over "Who Killed Rose Red".
But otherwise, rather disappointing.
Classic fairy-tale characters; residing in a modern 21st century NY-setting; with a mature, straightforward way of presentation and exceptionally refreshing characterization; interwoven in a pure good old fashioned murder mystery plot (or more accurately disappearance mystery) developing with biting humor, brisk pacing and great writing-quality; all the while maintaining a vintage neo-noirish style of storytelling complete with a Humphrey Bogart-lookalike chain-smoking, loosed tie & trenchcoat-wearing, badass tough as nails detective: formerly Big Bad Wolf now a reformed Bigby Wolf, Fabletown's sheriff and the most dangerous person, and a heartachingly beautiful yet ultrastrong-willed, sharp-minded woman of iron-hard personality as his apparent client: Snow White, Fabletown's superbly efficient and absolutely nononsense Deputy Mayor with a hilarious potty mouth....
A very Well written story. It mixes reality with fantasy. Fictional characters in a real world setting. I have seen Some episodes of once upon a time. This is 10x better.
Characters of Fairy Tale land, meet the crew from CSI! At least, the plot of this volume seems like something you would see out of an episode of “CSI: Crime Scene Investigation!”  Brief Introduction: After I have been hearing so many good things about the “Fable” series, I just had to check this series out for myself! So, I picked up the first volume of “Fables” called “Fables: Legends in Exile” and I must admit that this volume did have me interested in reading more from the “Fables” series, s
I also loved the way that Bill Willingham set up the crime scenes in this book as it helped create a sort of suspense to the story and the plot is set up where readers have to find the clues to the murder of Rose Red either through the clues set up in the story or through the Big Bad Wolf who is on the case!The artwork: Lan Medina’s drawing of the characters is so brilliantly done as all the characters look extremely realistic and sort of echo the comics that you would normally see in detective comics.
The Fables series starts off in medias res, with the daily business of running the small secret community interrupted by a murder investigation. Many of the major characters are introduced, but in retrospect it is clear that the characters are still in flux and that the larger story arc has not yet begun. As the beginning of a long story with very rich material this is surprisingly slight. I'm glad I read a later installment first so I knew it gets better.
