https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/609494.The_Young_Visiters
This is really pretty hilarious, but I don't think, contrary to some shelving I see, that it would be very interesting for children.
We have characters who were "sinister" or born "on the wrong side of the blanket" and little Daisy knew that meant a fellow was "not quite a gentleman".
She apparently missed entirely the fact that nice girls don't go stay alone with unmarried men (one, and then another; poor Ethel really gets handed off like an unwanted pet).
She is particularly good at understand the feelings of awkwardness and uncertainty that characters might experience in certain situations.
3.5 starsThis book was written by a 9-year-old so of course it's not the most brilliantly-written thing in the world––but Daisy Ashford's prose and attention to detail is certainly impressive considering her age. It's kind of unclear whether the story was meant to be satirical or whether Ashford intended readers to take it seriously, but either way it's cute and funny and I found it very entertaining.I'll probably edit this review later and add in some quotes that I found particularly funny. :)
"I shall put some red ruge on my face said Ethel because I am very pale owing to the drains in this house."
What a charming little read...by a nine year old...for adults. The story, in addition to charming, is also funny at times...along with the spelling. I mean she was nine years old.This is not a book for children even though it was written by one. It is a romance / society book. I'm very glad I took the time to read these 77 pages.
'The Young Visitors' is an impossibly charming story written by a nine year old about Mr. Salteena, who love Ethel and wants to learn how to become a gentleman.
A friend they go to visit, Mr. Bernard Clark, can help Mr. Salteena to get in with an earl, but he also takes a shine to the pretty Ethel.What a delight the whole thing is!
Her name was called Lady Helena Herring and her age was 25 and she mated well with the earl.''So you might responded Ethel giving him a speaking look.'Maybe Tolstoy was right after all, maybe only children really understand how to tell a story!
Oh, what a queer little delight I just read. To all of you whining writers, this book was written by a nine-year-old and stood the test of time. You know why? It's pure story, from start to finish. Read it to study it and have a good laugh and a grin on your face when you're finished. (It will take you about an hour.)
Imagine you are 9 yrs.
old you write a short story, then put it in a drawer for decades, and then take it out and it gets published.
If you think this is a good idea then you would be wrong.
Maybe you would assume it would have an editor?Nope!This story was so full of spelling and grammar mistakes that it was hard to read, multiple errors on every page.
Everyone makes mistakes, but seriously before you publish it clean it up.
The only thing that stopped me from giving it a one star was one funny sentence, but the spelling was atrocious.
This is a completely charming and funny story written by an English girl named Daisy Ashford in 1890, when she was only nine years old.
You can read a free copy of the story (which is very short) at Project Gutenberg: http://www.gutenberg.org/files/21415/....The story concerns Mr. Salteena, a bumbling and stupid (though likable) man who falls in love with a 17-year-old girl, Ethel, who is staying with him at his house.
In Mr. Salteena's absence, however, Ethel and Lord Clark fall in love and decide to go to London to party it up.
Not knowing what to expect from a book written by a nine year old English girl in 1890, I found myself chuckling and then searching the internet to learn more about the book and the author. Daisy Ashford's take on society and romance makes for a fun read. I am impressed that she actually finished the book.I didn't know where to shelve this. It's value to me is as an example of a book by a young author, which is a contestable decision. I may change my mind.
Read in one day on two train journeys.
Two amazing, wonderful, blissful train journeys.
On the way back my seat was taken by someone more feeble than me so I sat on the nasty carpet outside the toilet at the end of the train carriage.
I laughed so much I could see the people who had seats wondering what on earth I was reading that was giving me such a great time.
Don't read the whole preface before reading the book by the way, it contains major spoilers.
It was INCREDIBLE.Edited to add: To the people complaining about spelling or writing quality - You entirely missed the point.
A nine-year-old with published book is the stuff of legend. But Daisy Ashford did it in the 1890s. The Young Visiters is very funny and very mature and well done for such a young child. She was clearly advanced for her age and had read many books herself. Everyone should read it at least once.
Two of her main characters - Alfred Salteena (who wants to be a gentleman, but is not top drawer) and Ethel (pretty, only 17, and conspicuously unchaperoned) - are trying to get on in society, and one senses that their creator knows quite a bit more about the matter than they do."Will he bring our luggage asked Ethel nervously.I expect so said Mr Salteena lighting a very long cigar.Do we tip him asked Ethel quietly.Well no I dont think so not yet we had better just thank him perlitely." (sic)Of course much of the humour comes from the gap between what the author does know, what she thinks she know, and what she really doesn't grasp at all.

I've read all of Jane Austen's juvenilia and enjoyed them very much. The Young Visitors also is a peace of juvenilia. Daisy Ashford wrote it when she was nine and re-discovered it several years later. It was then published almost exactly as it had been written.It should better have stayed hidden in the drawer. It is fairly obvious why Ms Austen became a famous writer and we didn't hear anything from Ms Ashford again.
I laughed so hard I snorted. There may also have been cackling.
Here is another book I was able to read at Open Library. I loved this so much and found myself laughing many times are the young author's way of writing in this light love story. I also read some parts to my daughter and she enjoyed it, too. I loved reading a story of grown-up society people finding romance, all from a nine-year-old perspective!
This is so FRICKING cute. I didn't even highlight all my favorite lines in the Kindle version but I did get some good ones. This is literature as only a precocious 9-yo can write it. I just found out that Daisy Ashford wrote more books and I can't wait to have money so I can buy her entire library. I will become a Daisy Ashford scholar, you WATCH me.
I love the nine-year-old's picture of high society: nobility living in the Crystal Palace, purple and red satin, posh hotels, and lots of fancy food.You can get this book free from Amazon or Project Gutenberg.
https://www.amazon.com/Young-Visiters...http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/21415Not convinced you need to read it yet?
Try these quotes:“This is agony cried Mr Salteena clutching hold of a table my life will be sour grapes and ashes without you.” “Next morning while imbibing his morning tea beneath his pink silken quilt Bernard decided he must marry Ethel with no more delay.” “Oh Bernard she sighed fervently I certinly love you madly you are to me like a Heathen god she cried looking at his manly form and handsome flashing face I will indeed marry you.” "I shall put some red ruge on my face said Ethel because I am very pale owing to the drains in this house."2017: Just as funny on the re-read.
He had quite a young girl staying with him of 17 named Ethel Monticue.
Mr Salteena had dark short hair and mustache and wiskers which were very black and twisty.
He was middle sized and he had very pale blue eyes.
He had a pale brown suit but on Sundays he had a black one and he had a topper every day as he thorght it more becoming.
Ethel Monticue had fair hair done on the top and blue eyes.
She had a blue velvit frock which had grown rarther short in the sleeves.
A hilarious and utterly delightful bit of late-Victorian kitsch, direct from the mind of a nine-year-old with designs on being a writer.
The result is might be best described as "accidental burlesque"; Daisy Ashford's understanding of the grownup entanglements of books by the likes of Thackeray and Hardy is incisive and guileless in equal measure.Or, without all the fancy words: If you've ever enjoyed any kind of 19th-century literature, ever, you owe it to yourself to pick up this novella.
Daisy Ashford was a little girl who read enormous books and tried writing one of her own--and then, years later, published it with all spelling mistakes intact.
I've just re-read this.
The Posy Simmonds illustrated edition with a different version of the text and explanatory notes.
I just love it.
I love it more than I did the first time I read it.
It's not just Daisy's ability to craft a story and describe a party scene, dialogue, a love scene, and so on; it's her acute observations of the culture and class structure of her time.
While some of the observations indicate her natural naivety, others seem astonishingly far from naive!
Posy Simmonds' illustrations are an absolute delight.
Written by a 9-year-old who is clearly influenced by the Victorian era and literature she had been reading.
I read it for my Classic Juvenile Fantasy Literature class which mostly looks at literature written "for children," by adults, but this book seems to do the opposite.
Or at least, it is the only book we cover that is written by a child.
In a way, it seems like she has been bred to believe in certain ideals and it is interesting to see it come out in her story, but she also provides a refreshing and child-like view of the relationships she discusses.
Hilarious, unintentionally so, for the most part, but one suspects that some of the humour was utterly intended; and that the young authoress (only nine years when she penned this story) might have gone on to become a successful and perhaps even renowned novelist had she persisted with her hobby of writing fiction.The opening line is a classic.
"Mr. Salteena was an elderly man of 42..."Everything about this book is funny, charming, strange, incredible, but also accomplished to an extraordinary degree considering how young Daisy Ashford was when it was written.
Thanks to my friend Kim and Project Gutenberg I was able to read The Young Visiters this afternoon. I chuckled my way through it, impressed at the young Daisy's humour and wide range of vocabulary. I thought her spelling errors were rarther darling. I wish I had been that awesome as a nine year old.
hoax or not (see description on goodreads), this was hilarious. A good, quick, short "novel" written by a 9-year-old girl who was heavily influenced by the adults speaking around her and her own reading of Victorian literature. Best of all, the illustrator has taken some of her funniest (unintentionally funny, of course) descriptions and brought them to life.
This Victorian novella, written by a nine year old girl, follows the adventures of Mr. Salteena, "an elderly man of 42 . . . fond of asking peaple to stay with him." Simultaneously sweet and hilarious, part of the story's charm lies in its spelling and punctuation, but the precocious author also had an eye for personalities and social situations.
This enchanting little book was on my mothers' shelves and I read it when I was in primary school. Daisy Ashford's precocious powers of observation trained me to enjoy Jane Austen and Dickens and the Brontes, while her anarchic spelling prepared me for coping with Shakespeare. I suppose today's young readers of Dolly and Who Weekly would think it was twee...that's their loss!
This was on the 1001 Children's Book List, but does not seem like anything a child would want to read.
This was hilarious.
Available online, in many editions. Among them this:http://www.archive.org/details/youngv...
