https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7898.Betsy_and_Joe
she is wearing Betsy's outfit.Can't recommend this series highly enough.
And I wish I didn't know about the real-life Tony, because my fictional Tony goes on to have a long and gloriously satisfying life.Betsy's maturation continues, and she honors her family, her writing, and her friends- but she's still not able to say the things which need to be said where love and romance are concerned.
I'm guessing that 90% of what I knew of Shakespeare in my teens came from Lovelace (and also Norma Johnstone's Tish books).
A lovely end to the high school portion of the series.
“Say, you told me you thought Les Miserable was the greatest novel ever written.
I think Vanity Fair is the greatest.
Heart eyes forever.
The only thing dragging this down from a full 5-star rating is the Betsy/Tony/Joe business.
It's not that I dislike Tony - I LOVE his interaction with Margaret for instance, and the fact that she has always had such a crush on him - but I loathe even the hint of any kind of love triangle, and while he's not my favourite, he didn't deserve Betsy stringing him along like that either.
Heart eyes.*Read: 13 December 2011, 16 February 2015
After various false starts, and tentative moves towards friendship, these two aspiring writers finally get their act together at the end of their senior year - and find not only love, but the kind of understanding and support that I think all of us yearn for in a relationship.
It's been a long time since my senior year in high school, but like Betsy, I felt quite overwhelmed by the complicated tangle of emotions that comes from realising you really are leaving one stage of life behind.
I loved the beginning and end of this book, but got a little weary of the love triangle angst in the middle. And in the inconsequential aside category, I did a double take on seeing that Betsy uses the word "bigly" in a diary entry near the beginning.
Betsy Ray has always thought that she and the fascinating Joe Willard would make the perfect couple.
She has to figure out a way to follow her heart without ruining her friendship with Tony.Betsy and Joe finally come together .
The Betsy-Tacy books were highly autobiographical and Lovelace perfectly captures the innocence and magic of childhood.
I had the pleasure of visiting "Deep Valley" (aka Mankato, Minnesota) for a Betsy-Tacy convention back in 1996.
I have to thank my sister, Julie for introducting these books to me and changing my life.
Of course, Betsy's immaturity and self-centeredness often had her putting more in the balance than Joe. Still, as in every book, she learns some lessons and becomes a lot better for it.A wonderful book to read on a snowbound weekend because I had plenty of time to enjoy and not have to keep putting the book on hold as other things of life called for my attention.
(I think that with every book!) I liked that Betsy did a wink better in her studies than previously.
And one of the best endings that I couldn't have loved more!4/11/12 & 4/12/12 Re-Read!
There is no anorexia, no eating disorders.I think that this book covering Betsy’s senior year of high school is my favorite of the 4 high school Betsy-Tacy books, this despite the fact that I generally detest love triangles in novels.
I know the mores and constraints of the time didn’t permit Betsy to do as I most would have liked, but I do feel communication could have been vastly improved.
I know what I wanted to happen but I guess it doesn’t, which is too bad.My public library has this book only in an edition combined with Betsy Was a Junior but I was able to get this edition from inter-library loan.
See, I had just finished reading The Magician King which had pretty seriously traumatized me, as far as book experiences go.
(Read my review if you want more details on the nature of that trauma.)After that: a delightfully upbeat and quaint story of high school romance and drama from the early 20th century was just what I needed to restore my faith in humanity!This book was incredibly charming and entirely delightful.
I don't think it will bend the trajectory of my reading habits for years to come, but I am pretty sure that I will pick up at least one or two more volumes, although I may save them for particularly bad experiences.
So I read this book again yesterday, and it reminds me again of just how much I love this series. Lovelace manages to create a wonderful depiction of high school life in the early 1900s (much of it based on her own life), full of fun, friends, and adventure; you just wish you could have really been there to be a part of it.ps -- I can't stand the newer covers - try and borrow an old copy from the library; they have the original Vera Neville illustrations...
OTP OTP OTP all the feels gah
Joe is a perfect beau :-) I adore Joe.
JOE WILLARD YOU MAGNIFICENT BASTARD.
She sets the book up as we're used to: the frame work of Betsy's school year, the gatherings and holidays that mark each occasion; everything seems to be going well!
So many little things add up to a perfect whole really, but not much can top the deepening relationship between Betsy and Joe. It's been happening for several books and the ease of their friendship in the first half of the story reminds you of that.
It gets messy and confusing, of course, but Betsy's recognition of her role in both Joe and Tony's lives, and the ending on the hill makes it all worth it.
It is the last of the Betsy "High School" books because the action takes place in The Crowd's senior year.
I like the way that, all through these books, Mrs. Lovelace has described their frustrations, puzzlement, etc.
Betsy takes Joe on a quiet excursion: to see one of her favorite childhood places --- the tree avenue at the top of the "Big Hill" (which is also one of my favorite places in the books).
Perhaps, that is her function in the books --- to show that one's life can include persons whose background is entirely out of the ordinary.
The person in question is the irrepressible, vivacious, creative, energetic Betsy Warrington Ray. In this book she is a senior in high school, her beloved older sister Julia is traveling in Europe, and her serious younger sister is soberly promising she will never be too old for dolls.Betsy is enjoying the activities and chaos of her senior year of high school.
Boy problems.I was sorry Betsy was not more upfront with both Tony and Joe. She has no malicious intentions but she ends up treating both of them unfairly.
At the end of the book she and Joe have a serious talk about the future.
Joe asks Betsy what she intends to do:"Well, I was always sure I was going to be an author.
They are just so perfect together, and after four long years (for them *g*), it was wonderful seeing the start of their happy ending.Tacy is quite interesting.
The Harry romance is intriguing to me, after four years of Tacy not liking boys.
I'm not really sure how I'm meant to take it all - she had boys going after her, like Tom. She was comfortable with Tom and he pursued her, but she had no interest in dating at all.
Was she just waiting for the right man, Harry?
It's kind of odd that Tacy didn't share any of her romance with Betsy.
This is probably the best of the highschool books ...
because of Joe!
He is one of the best heroes ever, and Betsy and him together ...
wow!
It's just so cute!Of course, Tony ...
well, he's really sweet, too.
It's kinda sad that there had to be that whole love triangle thing.
I mean, there was never really any competition, but ...
Sad. Especially how Tony ended up.
*sighs*The best part was at the farm when Betsy and Joe meet up (just like in their freshman year!) and have such a good time together.
It's just so adorable!~Kellyn Roth, Reveries Reviews
4.5 starsBETSY RAY.
Oh man, I love her but she was truly wearing her bad idea jeans in this book when it came to dealing with Tony.
Which, I love him and choose to imagine a future where he and Margaret end up married some day.
But this book definitely helped with what I was worried about with Betsy and Joe, which was that we weren't going to see enough of them together before they're together.
I could have done without the misunderstanding with Tony, but I can live with it.
Joe Willard.
I love you.
You can stay.
"You understand, I think, that I've always had a Plan for my life.
In order to carry it out, I had to rule out girls, and I didn't mind.
Even last fall, although I liked you a lot, I wouldn't let you come into Plan.
But I've been doing a lot of thinking, Betsy.
That Plan has been twisted about to let you in.
I wouldn't like it without you.
I wouldn't give a darn for my old Plan if you couldn't be in it."I want to have other things to say, but I really think I need to let this stand on its own.
Love the significance of the two picnics on the Big Hill. Also, "I like your hair straight" is one of the most romantic lines in all of literature.07-27-2012 review:I love how, in the fall, when Betsy asks Joe about his family, she finds herself "facing the stone wall of his reticence." But when they meet at Butternut Center, it all comes pouring out of him. "He looked at her suddenly. 'I never told that to anyone before.'"Previously read: 1-28-05 (how is this possible? maybe I forgot to record another re-read? maybe I've just been dipping into it now and then?)
Beautiful love story between Betsy Ray and Joe Willard.
Gosh, this is... I'm in love, I think. With lots of things, but first and foremost: this book, and Betsy, and Joe. I was considering ending this on a heart-wrenchingly romantic quote from the book, until I looked back through the things I highlighted and got distracted. But I like this one: 'Tonight he was telling her about O. Henry's stories; his enthusiasm swept her along with the wind.'
So sweet, yet so silly and stupid (occasionally).The part that I really loved about this book was the first pages of the book that talked about growing up.Quote 1: "...one was growing up so fast that one needed time to think, to correlate all the perplexing changes and try to understand them."I, myself, can definitely relate to this because I often find myself confused with all the different things happening in my life as I grow up, and I just wish that I could stop my life for a while and make sense of all thse "perplexing changes".Quote 2: "Betsy had clung to every phase of childhood as it passed.
I guess it was a foregone conclusion that this one was going to be my favorite Betsy-Tacy book.
It struck me while I was reading that Betsy and Joe are a lot like Anne and Gilbert from the Anne of Green Gables books, and this one is like Anne of the Island, I think, where they're both going with other people and then finally come to their senses and realize that they belong together.
And Betsy and Joe have got a lot of living to do, anyway!Some other highlights--Tib bullying the star quarterback into winning the St. John's football game, Betsy's trip to see her father's German customers, and above all, A MAN FOR TACY!
During her final year of high school, Betsy does a lot of soul-searching and feels nostalgia for what she's about to leave behind.
During the four years, she gradually gets over Tony, while still loving and worrying over him, but she cannot seem to make any headway with Joe. At the end of the final book, Betsy feels she was a failure in her relationships with both Tony and Joe. In a beautiful sense of Deja Vu, Betsy runs into Joe at Butternut Center, where she first met him.
Lovely happy ending to the high school years.
These Betsy-Tacy books give such a rich picture of what it was like to grow up in small town Minnesota in the early years of the 20th century.
They follow Betsy Ray (actually semi-autobiographically author Maud Hart) from her early days as a small child to, with this book, her high school graduation.
They also gave some insight as to what had happened to the people in real life, especially appropriate because I presume that many of the minor characters will disappear from the books as they too moved on to other places and other friends.
Will definitely be writing an updated one when I finish re-reading this for the millionth time.
-- Old review --This is the only one of the Betsy-Tacy books that I'll review, even though I've read all of them.
When I was a child, I loved thebooks about Betsy and Tacy (and Tib) when they were children.
However, I soon grew past those ones, and started reading the books where Betsy is older.
And writing this is making me want to read them again!
Which I will, as soon as I finish my library books.
The title was promising-Betsy and Joe. Joe, not Tony.
Not that I have a problem with Tony; he's cool and all, but we all know Betsy and Joe have always liked each other.
Like the previous high school books, Betsy's world is centered around school, friends, boys, parties, the Essay contest, and graduation.
I really wish I was part of Betsy's crowd of friends; they know how to have a good time.
Anyways, I think this is a good way to close up Betsy's school years and send her off into the Great World (with Joe).
Once again I re-read this book and had the same great sentiments!
Betsy and Joe finally start going together during their senior year at high school.
There are things in the way of Betsy and Joe going together.
One of the things is Joe's job that keeps him busy and another thing is his Plan for his life and what Betsy feels is the biggest problem is a person standing in the way.
Additionally, this book is a favorite for Betsy-Tacy series fans who jump up and down when they read this book because Betsy and Joe are starting to be a couple at last!
They FINALLY "go" together but Betsy as usual can't make up her mind and lets Tony interfere.
But in the end they have their first kiss and it makes me long for the innocent sweet days of my era.
"Then he kissed her.
Betsy didn't believe in letting boys kiss you.
She thought it was silly to be letting first this boy and then that one kiss you when it didn't mean a thing.
But it was wonderful when Joe Willard Kissed her.
And it did mean a thing." Remember Betsy was a graduating senior, 18 and had her first kiss.
