https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/508200.Samantha_s_Surprise
Papier-mâché box5.
Box of chocolates6.
My grandmother made me a red polished cotton dress just like hers on the cover.
I got my first nutcracker, which started my obsession with them, and current collection of 300+.
I got a doll, the box, and a box of Russell Stover.
And other than the dress, I still have all of them.
I don't know what happened to that dress.
The point is, this book is classic, teaches a great moral about Christmas and acceptance, and it lingers in the hearts of young girls.
Awww much too adorable!! I love Samantha so much! Lol
I've been reading this book every Christmas since I was 7-years-old. It's a tradition! I love everything about it. It is so perfectly Christmassy and loving and joyful! Samantha was always my favorite American Girl growing up, and I still appreciate her as an adult, finding her realistic as a child but still strong and compassionate. Great read!!
Cute story about Samantha, one of the American Girl dolls, and her Christmas spent with her Uncle Gard and his good friend Cornelia, which causes a bit of an upset to her plans as her Grandmother, called "Grandmary," wants everything to be perfect for Cornelia, meaning Samantha's wants fall by the wayside.Someone left this in my Little Free Library, and I had never read any of the American Girl books, so I picked this one up to read for the holidays. Now that I've read it, I'll return it for someone else to discover.
I read this book from cover to cover sitting in my favorite chair in front of my Christmas tree, and it was perfectly sweet, saccharin, perfection. That is what this time of year is all about for me-- traditions, memories, and remembering past Christmases, surprises, and sharing all of it with the ones we love. This has been my favorite little book of the series so far! It's bringing back so many childhood memories.
This book is about a young girl in Victorian times who wanted more than anything a nutcracker doll for Christmas, but felt she couldn't ask her Grandmother for the doll since she had given her previous doll to her orphan friend. In the end everyone celebrates a Merry Christmas! (Sophie, Age 9)
Three books in, and this was by far mine and my daughter's favorite so far. At this point we feel we really know the characters well and can imagine the way they're speaking. The magic that is Christmas also helped this to be a more engaging story.
I like that I learn a thing or two while reading historical fiction books. This one was fun to read at Christmastime.
Fun, festive, but overall it was a holiday-sized serving of meh.
A cute story about Samantha, an upper-class girl, celebrating Christmas with her family.
I can't say I didn't enjoy it, but I can't say I did. Probably in between.
A fun, Christmas-y read!
Just revisiting a childhood classic. It's still good!
The universal struggle of change and how it can all be okay.
This story begins with Samantha being really excited for Christmas.
Her best friend invited her to a Christmas party and she had a new dress to wear to it; she also really wanted a nutcracker doll.
Samantha had planned to make a gingerbread house and decorate and go to the party but it all got changed when they received the news that her uncle's friend was coming.
Her uncle's friend ended up being really fun and even made a gingerbread house with Samantha.
Samantha ended up getting the doll from her uncle's friend and she declared that year the best Christmas ever.
Just like the first book, this book also is focused on a doll which Samantha wants.
Grandmary is very eager to make a good impression with Uncle Gard's fiance and soon everyone in the home is too busy making preparations to help Samantha with her plans.The story for this book was nice enough.
Samantha isn't exactly my favorite American Girl and her stories are often centered around material things.
This would be a nice Christmas story for young girls.
Samantha's Surprise is a short chapter book with a bit of history woven into its story.
I am giving Samantha's Surprise 3 out of 5 stars.
All that seems to change when Samantha's Grandmary finds out that Uncle Gard is bringing his friend Cornelia.
Grandmary orders decorations and Samantha is upset by this, then Samantha finds out that she can't go to her friend's party and that none of the maids have time to help her make a Gingerbread house.
It looks like this was going to be Samantha's worst Christmas ever and she wasn't looking forward to seeing Cornelia, let alone giving her a present.
Samantha gets to go sledding with her Uncle Gard and Cornelia and Cornelia even helps her make a gingerbread house.

I let my daughter write this review:In this American Girls Book, ten year old Samantha is invited to a Christmas Party by her friend Ida Dean.
Samantha couldn’t go to the party because a friend of Uncle Gard’s was coming to visit that very same day and it was proper for Samantha to be at the house to greet them.
Uncle Gard’s special friend was Cornelia, a woman that her uncle really cares for.
Even though at first Samantha was very angry this guest was coming, she eventually gets used to her and begins to like Cornelia.
We are just starting to read stories from the "American Girls" collection.
We just happen to be on the third "Samantha" story, which lucky for us, has a Christmas theme.
I like these stories a lot; they are entertaining and have some historical and educational content that make them more than just a story.
They like the stories, but I don't think they are their favorites, especially when compared with the A to Z mysteries or the Magic Tree House stories.
And the historical footnotes at the end are particularly torturous for them.
Sometimes I end up just reading them myself.
Samantha, an orphan, lives with her wealthy, formal Grandmary in 1904.
Her home includes servants and prestige.Samantha is excited about the forthcoming Christmas.
She has her heart set on an elaborate nutcracker doll at Schofield's toy Store.When Samantha attempts to decorate the house, she is rebuffed by Hawkins and Elsa;it appears that the house is being professionally decorated for Cornelia's visit.
Christmas Day or Cornelia Day??
Then Uncle Gard arrives with Cornelia and the holiday takes a surprising turn!The "Looking Back" section of this historical novel tells about Christmas in 1904, particularly Christmases of the wealthy.
When I was 7 my cousin had the doll and complete collection of accessories etc.
We didn't have much money but when the Scholastic book order came around Mom splurged and thank God she did.
I bought 'Samantha's Surprise' and every Christmas since 1989 I've read the story.
I clipped the mail order tag from the back of the book and taped it above my bed so that I could have a visual of the doll while I read her Victorian adventures.
As a child, Samantha's life meant some hope in a rather distressed time of my own.
This book is another great Samantha book.
This time it is Christmas and Samantha wants a nutcracker doll.
They ruin the party and Samantha is upset because this Christmas wont be like all the others.
The best surprise is that Cornella ends up being super nice and save Christmas when they get to do all their fun things together and she gives Samantha the doll she wanted.
This book is fun and lighthearted and gives kids that taste of what it would be like to have Christmas in the 1900s.
Buddy-read with my grand niece. Samantha's favorite Uncle Gard is bringing his girlfriend, Cornelia for a Christmas visit. Samantha resents all the fuss Cornelia's visit brings, including Samantha cannot go to one of her friend's Christmas party. In my opinion there are other American Girl paperbacks that are more appealing. I did investigate recipes for quince jam and plum pudding. The "Look into the Past" section at the back of the book was very interesting, including that no one counted calories of a Christmas dinner in 1904, and also the tidbit of information regarding Boxing Day on December 26.
It's almost Christmas, and Samantha is excited for the holiday. Her Uncle is bringing Cornelia with him for Christmas. Samantha's friend, Ida, is having a big Christmas party that Samantha is excited to attend. The family has their home decorated for Christmas and Samantha is eager to make a gingerbread house. But then Cornelia's arrival causes some of Samantha's plans to fall apart. She blames Cornelia.Samantha learns a valuable lesson this Christmas.It is fascinating to read about Christmas over 100 years ago. I thought it was interesting that a store bough gift was not as valued as something homemade.
Samantha's Surprise is a Christmas story. Nellie is very poor and her family cannot afford the lavish celebration that Samantha's family can, but Samantha is determined to share the wealth as much as possible so everyone has a great holiday. Uncle Gard comes to town and spoils his favorite niece with an extra special gift.This book really concentrates on the variances between social classes, and the way things have changed in only 100 years. It made me appreciate what I had and also more curious about life in 1904.
Alternate title- The one where she gets her doll.
The American Girl books are rather formulaic.
Book 1 we meet the girl and her world.
Book 2 we see what school is like during that time period.
Book 3 How that girl and her family celebrate Christmas (and of course that girl gets a doll as a present).
And so on and so forth.
This was probably my least favorite Samantha book because she was fairly bratty about not getting her own way for Christmas.
She does snap out of it but for a couple of chapters there she’s really not her usual self.
A simple story with nice pictures. But after addys Christmas story, it was let down. It was much more selfish & really focused on Samantha judging a woman before she met her & wanting a doll. Boring. I guess she learned her lesson, because corlaine turned out alright. But it was all to perfect. She got the doll. The lady was nice, but I don't feel anything was really learned. No spirit of giving here. Just a kid whining for half the book. Only good for American girl fans.
Samantha is angry when she hears that Uncle Gardner is bringing his special friend, Cornelia, is coming over. Of course, in one of Samantha`s short stories, they get married, and in this book, Uncle Gard asks her to marry him. Cornelia quickly says yes... but she knows that he was going to ask her, because they already had a date planned. But Samantha is longing for a Nutcracker Doll, and Aunt Cornelia gets it for Samantha. This turned out to be the best Christmas for her.
Samantha is angry when she hears that Uncle Gardner is bringing his special friend, Cornelia, is coming over. Of course, in one of Samantha`s short stories, they get married, and in this book, Uncle Gard asks her to marry him. Cornelia quickly says yes... but she knows that he was going to ask her, because they already had a date planned. But Samantha is longing for a Nutcracker Doll, and Aunt Cornelia gets it for Samantha. This turned out to be the best Christmas for her.
I loved the American Girl books when I was a kid. And the dolls. And the accessories. In December, I pulled out my baskets of Christmas books and this was among them. Finn picked it out to do as a read-aloud and thoroughly enjoyed it. While the story is just so-so, the "Peek into the Past" at the end (the nonfiction part of the text) was great. We had an awesome time comparing Christmas today to Christmas in 1904.
