https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/401157.Experience_and_Nature
He does a great job of predicting some of the problems faced by modernity, especially the problems posed by the advent of the scientific method and the resistance it faces from dogmatic forms of metaphysics.
He walks the tightrope of advocating for a resolutely scientific worldview while still making a strong argument for the validity of subjective experience, ultimately arguing that a harmony between the external world and the internal life of mind is the best philosophical approach for solving practical problems.
He suggests that philosophy and science are both forms of art that, when accomplished properly, arrange elements of experience in a way that leads to knowledge.
Fascinating, but difficult. This is Dewey working out his metaphysics; not for the faint-hearted, and might be difficult for someone without some grounding in the earlier, traditional philosophers such as Aristotle, Plato, Spinoza, Kant, and Hegel. That said, Dewey's point is clear: your worldview and approach to life, indeed, the ability to solve real world problems, will always be partial and distorted if you insist on seeing nature and experience as existing in separate realms rather than as part of the same world.
Not many books deserve the hype heaped upon them. This one does. Oliver Wendell Holmes, the Supreme Court justice, said of this book that it's just what one would read if God Himself had tried to say how the world really is, but was incapable of expressing Himself clearly. I agree; the metaphysical vision of the continuity between "nature" and "mind" is correct, but Dewey is an awful writer.
In actuality, a word, in its abstract mechanic form, does not mean anything unless the word undergoes a transformation that, by way of cooperation, turns it into an autonomous object with meaning.
In the process of communication, Dewey observes, words turn into movable objects that we associate with.
Once the words get transformed into objects that carry meaning, and once those words are put together through social construction, then communication is being created.Rather than getting stuck in the theoretical abstract of meaninglessness, Dewey suggests to enjoy the transformative creation of meaning that comes out of shared experience.
After reading this, it's obvious to me that the current neuroscientists like Antonio Damasio and William Connelly have built upon the pragmatic tradition of Dewey in decrying the separation of emotions and felt experience from the cognitive decision making process. Attachment theory owes a lot to Pragmatism as well. To understand the progression and evolution of modern thinking, this book should be mandatory reading.

Dewey's humanistic naturalism at its best. His bio-anthropological method and his Jamesian double-barreled conception of experience are to me very relevant perhaps more today than in his own day. Though, I certainly agree his prose is not extremely felicitous, this book is living evidence that 'technical' philosophy and humanistic aims are more than compatible, but, in fact, they must work together for the former not to fall into pedantic isolationism and general irrelevance and for the latter to have the guidance of scientific research and general intelligence. In short: viva Dewey!
I've read this book several times, and it is worth re-reading. This is one of Dewey's finest books. At places, it is difficult, but it is always worth trying to make it through. The only work that might be superior is  Art as Experience.
A fascinating look at the importance of experience in our lives. With particular emphasis on art, religion, democracy, and aesthetics, this book is surely to have an impact on the way you view the world.
Nothing is more stirring than pragmatism!
heavy going for me!
Rightfully included in the pantheon of extraordinary texts alongside Being and Time and Phenomenology of Spirit. The cornerstone of American philosophy.
John Dewey brings Philosophy back to its roots.
He does this by grounding Philosophy right where it belongs - in Nature.
What results from that concept is only the simplification of Philosophy, and its return to its rightful place.
Such nuggets as: science is an art; all knowledge stems from belief; "The characteristic human need is for the possession and appreciation of the meaning of things...", etc.Please excuse the bad poetry above (I like clam chowder), but this is one of the most important works in the School of Philosophy.
Moreover, I personally will tell you that this is because Dewey was not a clear thinker (what in the world can it mean to say that meaning lies in use?
Unfortunately, this means that Dewey's thought is, you guessed it, unthinkable.
Dewey sometimes will, however, thrill you with his rhapsodic invocations of just how differently the Ancient Greeks thought from how we do.
Well, the Ancient Greeks, whom Dewey seemingly knew so well (though definitely not in detail), had a word for truth: aletheia.
Read as part of a Senior Seminar as an undergrad.
A work of enormous insight.
This is another excellently written philosophicalpresentation of the art of teaching and learning.As such, it is both readable and understandable by anyone that has at least a GED...
