https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10637748-the-pledge
In Kimberly Derting's The pledge, we embark on a fairy-tale like story set in a dystopian future where language dictates your class standing.
I didn't feel any of this with Charlie, the protagonist in The Pledge.
I was also happy about the presence of the parents in the book.Charlie has a big secret, she can understand all languages.
In this world, if you even look at a person while they are speaking a language of a higher class, that is punishable by death.
I never felt especially alarmed during the book, neither did I feel intimidated by the Queen.
Each character was just their own little cardboard cutout: there's Charlie, the protagonist, who is special and doesn't realize her beauty and power; there's Brooklynn, the sexually promiscuous, incredibly gorgeous, and rebellious best friend whom our protagonist lives her sexual - and really any other - life through; there's Angelina, the protagonist's cute, innocent, and loyal younger sister who doesn't speak (considering I just finished Delirium and it was fresh in my mind, that direct comparison was a bit too much to get over at first); and lastly, Max, the mysterious love interest to Charlie who has secrets and is broody and overall just a 'meh' (at best) character.The predictability of The Pledge's plot wasn't as big as an issue for me as I expected it to be, because while I did have most of the story and plot twists sorted out by the very beginning (though there were one or two twists to surprise me), it wasn't as detractive of an element to my enjoyment in The Pledge as the characterization (or lack thereof), or the romance (which I will get to next) were.
Man, only 30 some pages in, and it's so good. Have agent edits to do, but I wanna read!
The Pledge is Kimberly Derting’s latest book.
It’s a dystopia.
Democracy has fallen.
Nations are ruled by matrilineal queens.
In Charlaina’s society citizens are divided and stratified by language.
Englaise is the common language spoken by all classes.
Each class has their own language as well, so for example the vendor class speaks Pashon.
Charlaina, Charlie for short, can understand every language, even though it is against the law.
One is not supposed to acknowledge or look up when another speaks a different language.
Tension is rising within the state and outside resistance forces threaten to overwhelm the kingdom.
Charlie can speak and understand all languages, and that is strictly forbidden.
Charlie must never let on that she understands any but the languages of a daughter of a Vendor.Charlie however, starts to attract the attention of a newcomer to her city, Max. She hears him speaking in a language that she's never heard before, and this fascinates her.
Somehow, Charlie senses that Max knows she can understand his language.
Max for his part, knows that Charlie has some secrets, but he has a few of his own.
My favorite was the shared affection and love between Charlie and her sister, Angelina.
Basically, what happens is the following: Queen Sabara: Omfg I'm a total bitch, see how I'm a total bitch since I just sucked the soul out of a six year old?
I know this is practically a dictatorship and we're minors and we could both get killed for this but omfg let's go to a club!
Max: Hey there hot stuff Charlie: *electrical currents coursing through body* O.
Charlie: *wet* Queen: Kill all these bastards!
Oh, wait, it gets worse than that, forgive me: the sole reason why this book came to be is because Derting interviewed this woman who was a child during the holocaust.
I wasn't all that impressed with THE BODY FINDER, and I was pretty hesitant when THE PLEDGE showed up on my doorstep.
I'm glad I did end up giving it a chance, because it wasn't anything like THE BODY FINDER -- frankly, it was better, more creative, and more engrossing.In the beginning of the book, I wasn't too sure I was going to like it.
I'm really glad Derting didn't stretch the story out and make it a series, because it ended perfectly and frankly it wouldn't have worked as a series.
Quite well, actually.The Pledge marks a departure for Derting into the world of Dystopic Fantasy.
Derting has cemented a place on my auto buy list of authors.The aging Queen of Ludania has no heir - no female heir anyway.
Throughout Ludania language is a mark of distinction and of separation of the classes.
Charlie has difficulty hiding this, particularly when she meets a young man named Max. In Max Charlie hears a language she has never heard and understands it, and he knows she does.
Derting does, and it makes for a superbly dynamic telling.Beside that this story is gripping.
I love it :)Second, I need to tell you how cool I think this story idea is!
The rules in this society are beyond strict: you must carry your passport at all times, pledge allegiance to the Queen every morning, and if someone speaks to you in another language, you'd better not understand them, or even look at them while they're talking - or else immediate death.
But of course, in comes our male protagonist, Max, who speaks a language that Charlie's never even heard before.
It's after their second or third meeting in the book, that Max writes Charlie a letter.
With “The Body Finder” author Kimberly Derting's latest, the first in a planned trilogy, I hesitate to call it, for lack of a better term, pure dystopian since it mixes more fantastical elements into the story.
Neither rises beyond the stock YA romance traits, with Charlie's passiveness being extremely grating but not as much as Max's frequently rude, condescending and smug behaviour being written off as okay because he's so enamoured with a girl he's known for barely a few weeks – the book has a very short time-line – and makes her so weak at the knees I'm surprised she could perform basic human functions.
I have been hesitant to read The Pledge because I have not read that many great reviews, but when I found it in audio, I just had to give it a try, and i am SO GLAD I did because this book was incredible!
The story is set in a world that is segregated by class, and where each class has its own language, however the protagonist, Charlie, has the gift of understanding and speaking every language; A lowly class girl understanding the sacred language of the higher classes?
Kimberly Derting delivered a unique and amazing book with another amazing female protagonist and a tight plot and writing that would make you fall deep into this dystopian world.
Another book with a very interesting premise.
The thing that spoiled the book for me is the extremely cliched writing.
This book could have been so much better had the author chosen not to employ dialogue that reads like it came waltzing straight out of a sappy romance movie.
I also saw a lot of Mary Sue-ish development from the main character and well...I like my heroines flawed.
I didn't like it but you might so I'll say make up your mind.
If you don't mind the writing, I dare say you'll enjoy it more than I did.
Bu tür kitaplar okumayı seviyorum. Baskıcı devlet ve özgürlük arayışındaki halk... Akıcı bir kitaptı fakat kısaydı, ikinci kitabın tadını çıkara çıkara okuruz umarım :)) Özellikle erkek karakterlerin kişiliği çok güzel oturtulmuş. Max, seni Charlaine'den ne kadar çok kıskandığımı bir bilsen!!!! :D Ve Charlaine'in kardeşi Angelana'ya karşı tavırları çok güzel ve özeldi ;) Umarım ikinci kitap da birinci kitap kadar iyi olur :)
Das Buch war vor allem gegen Ende hin so vorhersehbar (bis auf einen Punkt, den ich bis jetzt immer noch nicht ganz einsortiert kriege, weil es einfach nicht zusammenpasst für mich), dass es selbst mich gestört hat, weil ich dadurch am Ende schon ein wenig gelangweilt war und immer wieder andere Dinge spannend fand, als dieses Buch endlich zu beenden.
Dabei war das Buch am Anfang so vielversprechend, tolle Charaktere, nicht supertoll, aber doch gut erzählt...Insgesamt war das Buch keine komplette Zeitverschwendung (das will ich in keinster Weise sagen), aber ich habe absolut keine Motivation, mich mit den nächsten Bänden der Reihe zu befassen.
Supposedly, it was set sometime in the future, as it alludes to current cities, but no world I know would end up like this.
And his only excuse for this is he finds her "beautiful and intriguing." Charlie overall isn't particularly special, sure she's got powers, but she doesn't have much personality besides.
But I feel like whenever authors have a lack-luster character, they just make them caring or self-sacrificing, as if that's going to make up for a lack of personality.
As the pages drew closer to the end of the book, I was like "How is Derting going to finish this?
The idea of a society separated into castes by languages intrigued me, and I thought the heroine, Charlie, having the secret ability to understand all languages would make an interesting plot.
The caste system, the languages, Charlie's ability- were all just background for an average girl instantly falling in love (lust?) with a prince in disguise (saw it coming, but Charlie doesn't) then finding out she's a princess and has to defeat the evil queen.
The ending once again, seems to set up an intriguing plot for a second book, but I was so frustrated with the way this one fizzled out, I won't be wasting my time.
Y este libro es uno de ellos, de los que nunca más volví a escuchar hablar.
Supongo que tiene que ver con que la editorial dejó la saga abandonada en español y en inglés no tuvo tanto ruido (a mi parecer).Bueno, podría empezar a quejarme desde el primer momento, pero tengo que decir un par de cosas antes de iniciar con la explicación del porqué de la nota.
a) Este libro tiene PROBLEMAS DE CORRECCIÓN.
b) Más problemas de corrección: el libro tiene errores en el texto.
Los conté y aunque eran unos tres o cuatro en un libro tan corto me parece una burrada.
I was curious about what type of world Charlie's would be.
It started out really good too: with Queen Sabara transferrring her power.
It's the same power that got me more curious.
I wanted to know more of Queen Sabara and her power; I wanted to know how their world worked.
Sadly a good deal of THE PLEDGE deals with Charlie and Max' romance~ the same romance that developed too quickly.
In fact a lot of this was predictable:There 's Charlie, Brooklyn and Aron, besfriends.
I was predicting jealousy and a not too good bestfriend.
Intriguing and suspenseful, The Pledge is a fantastic story woven behind a realistic fantasy/dystopia setting.Charliana lives in a world that is divided by the language they speak and judged by status – the lower and higher class.
So when she meets the mysterious Max who talks in a language she’s never heard before, her secret is nearly revealed, but what Charliana doesn’t know is that there is something much bigger going on and she and her family are in more danger than ever.Why ‘o’ why did I not read The Pledge sooner?
The Pledge had an interesting premise, but it utterly failed.The sole reason I didn't give this one star was Xander and Brooklynn.
They were definitely the most interesting characters (far more so than Max and Charlie) and if the story was written from one of their perspective, it would have been so much more fun to read.I really didn't like Charlie.
But I hated Max a hundred times more than Charlie.
Stop being a stalker, Max. But it's not like Charlie cares.
Then I read the author's note at the front of the book, and found out this was based on an interview with a woman who was a child during the Holocaust.
The fact that it's set in a futuristic setting but also implements other elements, like having queens and not really using technology, really sucked me in.
Being obsessed with Medieval times myself (don't ask me why cause I'm not even sure why) I loved the whole queen and no technology air.
All you have to do is read one page about him and you're already swooning!
(Is it ok to still say swooning?
I think Max deserves swooning)Charlie and Max's romance was beautiful and I have found another great book boyfriend.
Kimberly Derting really knows how to write the perfect man.
And no one other than her parents can ever, ever know because it would be an instant death sentence for her.Then one night at an illegal club with her best friend, Brook, Charlie meets Max, a young, handsome man who speaks a language she's never heard before - but that doesn't stop her from understanding it.
But when she stumbles upon the underground resistance movement, led by the enigmatic Xander, and learns the truth about Ludania's powerful Queen, Charlie must decide just what part she will play in the coming conflict.I read this as a standalone novel, especially considering the epilogue gives it a sense of finality, but learned afterwards that it's the first of a trilogy (mostly at the publisher's urging).
However, once everything is in a place, it feels like a race to the finish line, and "TA-DA!" The End.Least Favorite Character: Charlie's Parents.
I feel like the only interaction I had with them was through Charlie's memories, and once instance in the very beginning of the book.
It was just one sentence, and not at all important to the story, but I remember it because she mentioned it in a way that made it seem like she would get back to why that memory was so important..Favorite Character: Max.Why?
I held the letter, vividly picturing the six words written inside the folds. Six words that I already knew by heart. Six words that meant more to me than they should. I unfolded the top third of the paper, then the bottom, purposely keeping my eyes unfocused for just a moment. My heart stopped. THE PLEDGE was one of the best dystopian books I have read this year. I didn't expect to fall madly in love with Max, the book. But I was unable to put the book down until I was flipping to the very last
The only people who know this is her family, but when a mysterious new guy pops into the picture he seems to show quite the interest in Charlie and she's not sure why.
But it is obvious there is something about Charlie and that something I cannot spill to you because it is a total spoiler.THE PLEDGE is beautifully written and I was impressed with the characters and plot.
But I can tell you that he cares a great deal about Charlie and he would do anything, absolutely anything to keep her safe.
When I realized that The Pledge was from the same author, that didn't discourage me to read it because the plot premise sounded interesting.One thing needs to be clear: This is not dystopian and shouldn't be considered as such.Do I see paranormal powers in a distant future?
Possibly.This is plain fantasy, period.And also, monarchy in the distant future is not believable.
Just like Kira said in her review of The Selection, 300 years ago, people were against monarchy.
Why would people want monarchy in the distant future?
until she fell in love with Max. Seriously, stop the insta-love!!
WOW I AM SO DISAPPOINTED!I read this book like 8-10 years ago or something and I freaking adored it so much.
It was like the BEST BOOK EVER.
Then, to make matters worse, Charlie looks down on Brooklynn for this and gets so high and mighty about it.
Yeah they had some chemistry, but things moved way too fast for this book.
Ugh. Lastly, this book was basically propaganda for this false country.
There were pages I would read and think "Wow I literally read straight propaganda for the crown of Ludania" and Charlie was like "these freaking rebels need to stop it".
This is a really good dystopian world.
However, I was a bit surprised to know that it has fantasy in it.
Ugh. It has all a dystopian world can have - war, resistance, ruler, and danger.
It's one dangerous world.
Charlie, the girl with a secret she must protect because it will mean death to her.
There are also other characters: Angelina, Charlie's sister, is one powerful little girl.
Brooklyn, her bestfriend, I'm surprised with her secret.
I don't know, maybe my guessing skill is not that good to predict the whole book.
LOL.Anyway, I highly recommend this book to all who love dystopian stories.
Но это все понятно, жанр и публика требуют, так что я знала, на что иду.
Не знала только, что мир окажется таким никаким от слова "совсем".
Нам только и говорят, что какие-то названия, да описывают фишку с языками и связанными с этим заморочками, но картинка все равно не складывается.
Вроде жесткое деление на классы, но похождения героини всю эту жесткость сводят на нет.
Все равно что заявить, мол, у нас тоталитаризм, а потом выбежать голым на главную площадь города и обложить матом правящую верхушку.
Короче, на словах все вроде понятно, а написано поверхностно.
Но это все костяк, детальки и наметки.
Charliana can read, hear and speak other languages. All of them. Including those she shouldn't know. But when a mysterious Max appears, will she be exposed for who she really is?This book drags on, and on, and on. It's at such a slow pace, it's redonculous. And the plot. Oh geeze, the plot is stupid. I can't believe I gave this book my time. Charliana, why are thou so annoying?The only thing I liked was that it was dystopia and YA, but I didn't enjoy it.
Another fun and interesting series by Kimberly Derting! The different languages and the rules regarding them was such a new idea. Loved Charlie and Max. As usual the characters are very well developed. I feel like I know them well enough to recognize them on the street if they appeared. =) On to the next book in the series.
