https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16131032-abaddon-s-gate
Pastor Anna Volovodov leaves her wife and child behind to go to the ring as part of an Earth delegation made up of religious figures and artists to try and figure out the significance of the ring to humanity from a spiritual standpoint.As I noted before, one of the things I love about this series is how it sets up the idea that even with the terrifying and astounding things that have happened because of the protomolecule that the different factions of people scattered around the solar system still spend most of their time focused on squabbling with each other and looking for an angle to use the alien tech for their own purposes.
It is the content, the story itself, which is simply disappointing as far as I am concerned.Apart from Holden and his crew all the nice characters from the previous book like Bobby and the likable bitch Avasarala are gone.
Just push the f-ckers out of a bloody airlock and be done with it.I have to say that I am probably not really capable of giving a un-biased, possibly not even a fair, review of this book since I am so disappointed with it, especially given how much I liked the previous ones.

I for one am shocked at the bollocks the authors made of things in this, the third part of The Expanse.Where do I start ?The first two books were truly brilliant, and Caliban's War ended with a dandy of a cliffhanger with the protomolecule in full threat and Miller making his mysterious comeback.
The entire Clarissa / Melba character was riddled with question marks, contradictions, nothing made much sense about her.There were key points in the story that were "no way that is happening" scenes.
It was like Abraham and Franck were wrapping this sucker up as fast as they could, and were running out of time on this one.
Re-Read 8/18/18:Doing a full re-read of the series is almost like coming home.
Banks Culture or more to the point, Brin's Uplift War, or even Pohl's Gateway series, I was thoroughly impressed with the Expanse because it kept me grounded in the multiple scales needed to fully appreciate it.
Sure, there's series that have galaxy-wide adventure, but how does one truly draw the reader into a true appreciation of it?
Answer: have an extremely fully-fleshed solar system and the need for an equation between time and distance.
The quality of story and writing is amazing.I will be following this series forever, I do believe.
The Rocinante (from Syfy's adaptation)In the previous book, the inscrutable “protomolecule” aliens the have crash-landed on Venus and soon create a weird gigantic ring, 1000 km in diameter, and launched into orbit.
This caused the station to not only kill most of the human visitors but also drag all four ships into the station’s orbit and disable their drives.This is another thrilling installment in the Expanse series.
Did I miss the part where Miller made bullets exempt from slow zone limitations?Abaddon's Gate was disappointing after the first books gave us so many unexpected surprises and great characters.
A Stargate that leads to a sentient hub that turns Miller into a ghost in Holden's head.
Our heroes have to stop the cartoonishly insane Captain from destroying the Stargate and at the resolution of it all Miller tells Holden the gate wouldn't have been harmed.
I've been actively anticipating it for the past few months.
I've been hungering after it for the past week or so.
Yes, it did.It had everything I could hope for in a science fiction novel.
Great characters: check.
Great worldbuilding: check.
Ruminations on morality and the human experience: check.This is the sort of book that makes me enjoy SF: a book that transports me to a fascinating new world and gets me thinking along the way.
I'm running out of ways to express how much I enjoyed this book, so here's what I want you to do.

When a UN vessel is destroyed, James Holden and the crew of the Rocinante is blamed, setting off another potentially volatile conflict.We already know that the authors Corey know how to build a nail-biter with plenty of good old-fashioned sensawunda, but the real strength of the series is their ability to introduce new POV characters in each book that are every bit as memorable and endearing as Holden and the crew of the Roci, and Abaddon’s Gate features the series’ best up to this point.It’s not hard to guess at what the ring is finally revealed to be, but getting there is quite a ride.
When the last white blot on the maps of the Earth disappeared, it was the turn of the neighboring planets and later of the whole Galaxy to fire up the imagination of the restless and the daring explorers.A quick reminder of the first two books in the series: it is centered in the Solar System, in the not-too-distant future, proposing a society based still on a mega-corporatist economic system and on military power projection that resulted in three major players on the political scene.
Book 1: 5*Book 2: 4.5*Book 3: 4.25*Another good book in this series. The major difference between this and book two were the character perspectives in addition to Holden were superior in book two. I think after three books of Earth, Mars and the OPA fighting over politics book four needs to happen beyond the gate. I thought with the station this might take a different story arc but it didn't.
Everybody whose anybody from Governments to religious celebrities to the media wants a look see - and the crew of the Rocinante is there ready to cash in when they receives an offer they can't refuse on a contract that will see them up to their neck and more into the protomolecule's business.So after vomit zombies on Eros in book 1 and rampaging protomolecule monsters on Ganymede in book 2, I was really looking forward to what the goup from space came up with this story.
When you can't think of a good rebuttal for your opponent's argument, you can always punch them in the face"After the ending of Caliban's War, I couldn't wait to dive in this book.
It took me however a little while to get used to the new narrators.
The first two piqued my interest pretty quickly and I enjoyed finding out about their lives, how they ended up in the limelight and what part they were going to have in the plot.
Clarissa however was a little harder to connect, but the authors still pulled it off nicely.
General impression - a lot of combat, grouping, regrouping, splitting parties, shooting and vomiting.
Probably if I was reading it when it was the freshest book in the series I'd be possibly having quite a different feelings about it.
Definitely not my favourite one out of three of them I've already read.
It actually got much better when I started skimming a bit.
Would make it a great read!Melba.
Actually, thanks for Melba, authors!
because comparing to her Holden was quite OK now and I kinda started liking him, finally.
I know that authors needed a certain "Tasmanian devil" type of character and they created it.
Another solid addition to the series. The format of adding new POV characters while also following the core characters continues to work well and keeps the story fresh. I'm looking forward to the next installment!
The only thing that survives is the story people tell about you.”..."
She is smart and thinks things through, also she is a woman, so yeah, listen to her, you dumb-assess!!!
Holden's earnestness and misguided naivete get on my nerves, but the story was very good despite that:) However, there were some hard chapters to read, not because they were bad, but because they were a graphic representation of what violence and the human habit to shoot first can bring on peoples' lives...
"...“Violence is what people do when they run out of good ideas.
Some things just don't work as well on screen as in a book and the showrunners seem to have an impeccable sense for it.This third book opens to Holden and his crew on the Rocinante being freelance workers and having made quite a lot of money that way.
But above all, you get what science fiction has always lived off of (just like humanity itself, too): HOPE.For me, after having gotten a firm grip on what the Solar System is like in this universe, it's all about the new horizons.
Actual Rating: 4.25
Not only is she genetically enhanced, she's also wily, cunning and rich which all spells trouble for Holden and his crew.Honestly, I really enjoyed this and it was kind of similar to the others in the series for me as it starts off quite slow but it just builds and builds until you're super into the story and there is action left, right and centre.
I definitely liked the way the plot threads all came together and seeing the very real human conflicts pitted against the backdrop of a very scary alien zone was super cool.I'm sure this series has much more in store and it seems like we'll be seeing way more of some of these characters and some of the universe so I can't wait.
Caliban's War I thought really delivered on that promise, introducing characters far more interesting then the first book and expanding the world.
This book...not so much.There are two glaring issues with this book.
From the moment she is introduced, it's both incoherent with what was established in the last two books, and it's pretty clear where this story line is heading.
The next character being introduced is a pastor?
The second issue is not really using the proteomolecule.
You have an awesome alien particle that makes giant rings out of planets and floats them across the galaxy?
This book didn't live up to that sort of awesomeness.
A solid middle book that get us to a seriously interesting place.
It's strange to me that considering the whopper of a reveal-slash-cliffhanger at the end of Caliban's War, and the seriously visceral reaction I had to it, that I didn't immediately snatch Abaddon's Gate up like my life depended on it.
The fact that it worked so well was surprising and dismaying, because with series like these, one comes to assume that the main characters can fix or do anything.
I liked the mystery of it, and the way that it was explained...
Anyway, I hope to not let years pass before getting to book 4 of this series, because I'm really curious where this goes from here, and what's on the other side of the ring.
[4 Stars] This one wasn't quite as good as the first in the series.
It's also strange because this book has a large scope, but everything takes place in fairly close quarters.
I really loved Anna and Bull, but I feel like Bull's story was just left hanging if you know what I mean.
I also felt like Bull was almost a not-crazy-Miller if you know what I mean.
Still, this book is really good and an excellent addition to the series.
I like the way this book wrapped things up while still leaving room for so much more.
She sees a young woman that looks like she needs help; it's Melba, and she's going crazy with remorse after killing Ren. She thinks Anna somehow knows what she did, and tweaks out at her.Melba heads back to the Cerisier and activates the software on the Roci, issuing a trigger code to blow up Seung Un, announcing Holden's responsibility and demands, then powering up weapons and targeting systems.On the Behemoth, probes sent into the Ring have determined there are a number of large objects, possibly ships, on the other side.
The Full Review: http://thefoundingfields.com/2013/06/.... “There are some series that I wish could go on forever, and The Expanse is one that fulfils that category. James SA Corey delivers another stunning entry with Abaddon’s Gate, and therefore Book Four cannot come fast enough.”  ~The Founding FieldsJames SA Corey is the penname of Daniel Abraham & Ty Frank, for those people who do not already know – if you’ve been following the series or at least have read the first volume, then you’ll
Another point in favour of the Expanse goes to the Space Opera setting itself, it allows the reader to explore a wide variety of concepts and setting so that we never feel like Abaddon’s Gate is simply just a re-hash of Leviathan Wakes and Caliban’s War, with Corey coming up with new ideas to bring to the table.Middle novels in series can be sometimes of a chore to get through.
Not so with Abaddon’s Gate, it’s page-turning action all the way through – and even this novel brings a certain sense of conclusion to the book, as the series was originally planned as a trilogy before being extended.
She has a new identity and manages to get an assignment on one of the star ships heading out to the ring.
When the plot comes to a head, Holden is forced to flee through the ring and out of the solar system.
In the gate, Clarissa Mao is still working towards her final revenge.
What will happen if the humans do something drastic - like firing a giant laser into the ring?Clearly, there is a lot going on in this book.
Clarissa, a young woman in her twenties, builds and executes an amazingly complex plan to destroy Holden.
My thoughts summed up: Humanity sucks, and I had a lot of fun with this one.I think I'm finally warming to Holden, which means a lot considering I almost stopped reading this series because of how much I wanted to smack his cocky little head.
I enjoyed the new POV characters that were introduced, especially Melba and Anna.
(I did miss Avasarala quite a bit.) The writing is nothing special and the story is a fun space romp.
The latter half of this book opened up a lot of possibilities for this series and I'm excited to see where the authors take it.
This book introduces a new concept that has the potential to change the whole series and I'm sure this aspect will be explored more in the next installments, the story was as good as you can expect from any of the books in these series , but the introduction of new characthers and explaiin the new concept mentioned above felt like it took a little bit of excitement off the story.
In an effort to escape the Martian Navy, Holden has agreed to transport a documentary news crew to the front lines of The Ring, despite Holden’s reservations - he believes the Protomolecule isn't finished with him yet and worries that by getting too close, he’ll endanger not only himself, but his crew.Abaddon’s Gate is definitely the grittiest, messiest entry in The Expanse series up to this point.
