https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/633083.Kilkenny
As I work my way through L'Amour's westerns I can't help but relive the fun I had when I read them the first time over 30 years ago...These books are easy to read, yet very well written. Full of western cliches, yes but some how different. And, to be fair, they are loaded with historical accuracy.This book is just another story about the gunfighter who wants to settle down and circumstances won't let him. Done before? Yes, many times. But still done so well by this author it remains full of excitement and surprises.
He is the embodiment of who I would like to be as a man, and, unlike a number of contemporary Western protagonists today, Kilkenny isn't a flawed character.
Few protagonists today are like Kilkenny, and I doubt I'll ever encounter another character like him again.In this novel, Kilkenny finally finds a home--he builds a cabin out in the mountains of the whispering wind, and plans to live out his days in peace.
Indeed, I was so engulfed in this novel that I read it in two days, as I just could not wait to discover how the story ended, and boy was it satisfying.
Easy to read, fast paced, but with numerous western cliches: an aloof gunslinger who strolls into town, trying to set up a new life for himself - to live in peace and quiet, but the circumstances won't let him; a love interest, from far back into his life, who conveniently finds herself in the same town as him.Though admittedly he is quite likable.I imagine this would be a good read on a plain or something.
Oddly, this, the third book, is the first in the ebook, followed by The Rider of Lost Creek and The Mountain Valley War, and by a couple of short stories that also feature Lance Kilkenny.
It's a lot of western stories all in one short week.My husband and I have read all of the L'Amour western novels and have them in a nice matching hardcover edition that I found here and there in used-book stores.
We used to get a lot of fun from getting out the big atlas and seeing where in the US these stories were taking place.
Early L'Amour effort (originally published in 1954)--great story about a loner gunman looking for a place to settle down, who gets caught in a range war. By the time the dust settles the bad guys have been vanquished, the good guys have survived and the hero gets the girl. What's not to like?Louis is a storyteller, pure and simple. The prose is kinda clunky in this one, but the story shines through. I've read all his novels, several times each (at least) and I'd put this in the middle of the pack.
A wonderful look into another world. Got to love Kilkenny - no one brings that man down.
A perfect finishing to a PERFECT Western trilogy. Lance Kilkenny is without a doubt my all-time favorite Western Hero. And the duo of Lance Kilkenny-Nita Riordan is also my most favorite of them all! These are the kind of evergreen stories I'll continue to re-read always.
Lance Kilkenny fights off cattle rustlers, saves town and gets girl - typical Louis L'Amour plot. It is a good book to pass the time on an airplane, especially from Wichita, Kansas, to Chicago.
Given the L'Amour family's propensity for repackaging the late authors material, these works may well also appear elsewhere.#1 Kilkenny series - Kilkenny wasn’t looking for trouble when he entered the Clifton House stage station, but trouble found him when a reckless youngster named Tetlow challenged him, drew his gun, and paid for it with his life.
Jared Tetlow is a powerful rancher determined to run his vast herd on the limited grasslands there—whether he has to buy out the local ranchers, run them out, or kill them.
He’ll cut down anyone who stands in his way, especially a man he already despises: the gunman named Kilkenny—the man who killed his son.
I'm like a speck of dust and this book is the vacuum.
This book has a lot of cliche western elements, but the writer tells his story so well that it never becomes a drag.
Like could this guy please have something he's not good at?
He's always taking the bad guys for a beating, and while it was enjoyable, I felt like this book lacked real tension because the main character has no vulnerabilities.
Throughout the book, he gives the bad guys a beating but never really suffers any true beating, which to me lacks a depth of realness to it.
Superb writingOne of the finest westerns I've ever read. L'Amour at his best. Terrific characterisations, marvelous storytelling and intense action. I recommend the book and it's famous author to everyone!!
This book has action, but I would only read it only a couple of times. One man joins a town law and help take back the town and the county from a bunch of cow handlers that are bullies. I would recommend this book to people that like to have action and like the old western time period.
FUN readGood read. Beautiful descriptions of the high country. Believable characters. Nicr L'Amour storyline. Hood cowboy book full of gunslinging, old west town descriptions and horse riding. The Indian was nicely portrayed as well.
Roger, Village patron, June 2018, 5 stars:Kilkenny, a quick-draw turned rancher, has to go up against the Tetlow Ranch who are trying to take over the entire valley. A good read.
Love the faste's gun man in the west
This book was great, maybe my favorite of L'Amour's work from what what I've read so far! Definitely on par with the best of the Sackett series. 4.5 Stars!
It dragged a bit at times, but was still better than the last few Louis L'Amour books that I've read.
full blown Kilkenny action, boxing and shooting and saving the girl
Typical......but I still enjoyed it!!!
So, Lance Kilkenny, Nita Riordan, Jamie Brigo, and Cain Brockman are back, on a new country, with new folks and new bad guys.This book was a hard read for me, and my least favorite of the series.
Maybe I'm getting Louis L'Amour burnout, but I had a very hard time staying committed to this book.
So, that's the first problem.The second problem with this book, is Nita Riordan, Jamie Brigo, and Cain Brockman are running the "KR" ranch, unbeknownst to Lance Kilkenny, who just happened to drift into the same area.
In the past, I'd usually turned to James Bond novels, but have made my way through all the Fleming books, and didn't feel like wading into another of the follow up Bond authors, so instead I decided to give L'Amour a try, largely because I remember being captivated by the painted images of cowboys and horse on white background in the Super Markets of my youth.
(Side note: Apparently, this is the third book in the series, but I didn't feel like I missed out on anything by not reading the first two.
Now a handful of books into the early part of Louis L'Amour's bibliography, two distinct themes that stand somewhat juxtaposed to each other are starting to take shape.
On the one hand, L'Amour's characters, while still mostly archetypes of classic Western roles of heroes, villains, damsels in distress, etc., are beginning to show - albeit softly - signs of depth and life.
"Kilkenny" is a solid work from a legend in this genre, and it seems to be the first slight change of course from Louis L'Amour's earlier works.
There were a total of three novels featuring this lone drifter gunman as well as a couple of short stories.
Kilkenny just wants to stop his wandering ways, settle down with a nice woman and become a hard working cattleman.
I enjoy reading books like this in between weightier novels and considering this is the 82nd L’Amour book I have completed, I suppose I must enjoy them.
I still have over 20 on my shelf that I still need to get to but I am definitely on the downhill slope of his total body of work.
Kilkenny by Louis L' Amour is about Kilkenny was at the station eating lunch and sitting there and this man named Tetlow challenged him but he lost and was killed.
I thought when he was sitting around town it was kind of unnecessary because no one knew him there so it really wasn't that important until Jared Tetlow came along.
The voice of the character matters because if there wasn't the voice then there wouldn't really be about anything accept one man that was after another man and were trying to kill each other.
The theme of this book would be about authority and revenge.
I love Louis L'Amour books and I haven't read one in many many years.
I found myself in the mood to pick up an entertaining western that I knew would deliver a good story swiftly after watching "True Grit." That's what brought me back to Louis L'Amour.I was introduced to his books by a colleague of my father when I was a teenager.
On top of that I just love some of the nuggets of wisdom that L'Amour weaves into the story, for example, "No man can put a rope on the past and hope to snub it down..."The provided an enjoyable afternoon read.
I spent a lot of inward sighs on the adverb mania, the head-hopping, the uncertain antecedents ...
I could go on, but I don't even want to, because Kilkenny's back, and apparently that's all this Western-loving girl needs to give a book four stars.Happily (the adverbs are contagious), this trilogy has actually (oh my) grown the characters from the first book to this one--or more accurately, grown their circumstances around them so that each book isn't a repeat of the last.
Well, other than the Range War Drags Kilkenny Into Trouble trope, and the Why Can't Everyone Let The Tired Gunfighter Live His Life Peacefully trope.
This is the first American Western I have ever read, and I have to say I found it very interesting!
It is also historically interesting, as the frontier is such an important part of the American heritage.
To me, as a foreigner, it helps explain the idealism and romanticism that has taken part shaping the western United States.
Even though this is the third book in the Kilkenny series, I did not feel that it truly hurt my understanding of the setting and characters not having read the prequels.
Everything was recognizable enough so that I could still enjoy this book.
A solid L'Amour western.
Kilkenny seems a more political--more overtly patriotic, in fact--novel than other westerns of his.
Still, the overall tenor and tone of the story makes more a great, classic western story, so the occasional pedantic sections can be forgiven.
Something else that can be forgiven is L'Amour's tendency toward regular violation of the basic narrative rules of point of view--his writing sometimes "head hops" from one character's thoughts to another's, without warning--yet, somehow, his story is so engaging, and his characters so archetypically iconic, that it "works" anyway.
Good story, but I recommending starting elsewhere if you're looking to read westerns or Louis L'Amour--such as Fallon or The Man Called Noon.
My dad is a L'amour addict, so I started reading these books when I was very young. Kilkenny is one of my favorite characters. He is strong and wise and always protects the underdog. The thing I love most is that he draws everyone into his world. I don't care if you were my enemy, you can be my best friend type of situations. I have always thought that was an admirable character trait. He didn't hold a grudge. L'amour may have been guilty of writing formula fiction, but he writes a great western tale.
This is a better than average L'Amour novel from his early efforts. Of course any novel by him is a major step above typical westerns. Great characters and description. He managed to blend history into each of his novels. Critics often say he simply wrote the same novel over and over again but they ignore the wonderful craftsmanship his writing showed. Any one who wants to learn how to write should read his novels.
