https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21979832-the-girl-from-everywhere
As with Passenger, it promises an exciting combination of time travel and pirating (in many ways, it feels like the same book), but it is bogged down by descriptions of ship life and navigation.
Kashmir is not central enough to carry the story and Nix is so damn boring.
In this case, the introduction of a love triangle just made me irritated with Nix.Kashmir is eligible bachelor number one and - I think(?) - the only real choice.
It's totally fine if Nix is not into Kashmir - she doesn't owe him something for being a good guy.
Everything about this book reminds me of ALL the things I love reading about: pirates, ships, treasure, dashing thieves, epic navigator women, really delicious pastries, tiny pocket-sized dragons, SO MANY MAPS, ghosts, and plenty of sass.
Straight onto the sequel!And Kash x Nix is like OTP OF DENIAL AND LOVE.
***Oh this was a delicious specimen of ships and time travel and I THINK I AM IN LOVE.
"And what the even heck is it about?"Here, let me explain ALL with a handy dandy list.All The Things You Need Know About This Book:• It is about time travel and pirate ships.
And I really like Heidi Heilig's writing.Nix and her fellow pirate-ish folks can travel anywhere in history (but also to fantasy worlds too??) if they have a map.
There were several small mysterious storylines or characters and interesting side plots, but it took a bit for it to all feel like it was part of the SAME story.
None of this gets in the way of enjoying the awesome setting and adventure!So I did love the overall feeling of the story and was never bored, despite all of my random questions.

My favorite part of the novel is a three-way tie between the aesthetic setting, so perfectly captured in both feel and culture, the relationship between Nix and her father, and the premise of time travel in association with the maps.Overall this book is truly something special and should definitely be a book you check out.
There's only now, and tomorrow nothing will be the same, whether we like it or not."The majority of this book takes place in late 1800's Hawaii, and I love how well Heidi captures the vibes and feel of the paradisiacal island of Oahu.
Why did the stories I knew best never end well? But why too did I feel at home among them? I could never give up the myths, the maps, the ship that had shaped me. Blake's home might be paradise, but mine was the Temptation.  The Girl From Everywhere is a heart-wrenching, poetic book about love and loss, and the endless cycle within. Nix is sixteen years old, and has lived her entire life aboard the Temptation, a hand-built time-travelling pirate ship, along with her father, Captain Slate, a ru
Nix is sixteen years old, and has lived her entire life aboard the Temptation, a hand-built time-travelling pirate ship, along with her father, Captain Slate, a runaway thief, Kashmir, and two other loyal shipmates.
If found, Slate will be able to time-travel into the past, to the time before Nix was born, and save the love of his life...
Nix is all too preoccupied with the knowledge that Slate's obsession will end her life, and she does her best to steer him away from find this ever-elusive map.
After all, maybe without Nix, Slate would've been able to save her mother.
If Nix helps her father reunite with the love of his life, it will cost her her own.In The Girl from Everywhere, Heidi Heilig blends fantasy, history, and a modern sensibility with witty, fast-paced dialogue, breathless adventure, and enchanting romance.What I Liked:This book was such a colossal disappointment - FOR ME.
I thought the love triangle would turn out to be mild - at one point in the book, it looks like Nix is going to leave Hawaii (and Blake) forever - but that wasn't the case.
Nix has spent her entire life aboard the ship traveling through time, using maps to navigate through history and mythological places.
Her father, the captain, is really only interested in one time and place though.
Slate longs to find his way back to Honolulu, 1868, where the love of his life, Nix's mother, died giving birth to her.
I was really excited starting this book but it didn't hold my interest for long.
My biggest issue though was the time traveling itself.
I'm not sure if it was my disconnect from the characters and story but I was a little confused about the entire process.
This also happens to be the 3rd book I've read so far this year about time travel (not sure if maybe that's why it didn't quite hit my expectations, I tried not to compare it).
According to what I've read, in order for Slate to Navigate, he needs an accurate and original map that was penned and dated for the year and place he would like to go and he needs to have a strong belief that the map will work, that the land he's attempting to reach does indeed exist.
In spite of its potential to be a marvellous read, this magnificent ship ran ashore with a bland female lead, tedious writing, an unnecessary love triangle, and a plot that couldn't keep me hooked for a second.(Credits to Heidi Heilig for the visual material.) PREVIEWI'm opposed to both the heroine's name (I've already encountered a Nyx in Cruel Beauty, why must names be recycled when there's such a diversity of names out there?) and to time-travelling, as there's almost always a hole in the logic.
I went into this book with high hopes and sadly i feel a bit let down right now. I thought that this book would have adventurous moments and action but the plot was so bland in comparison. The characters were very interesting though! Especially Kash <3  Kash is a charming Persian thief whose mouth is nearly as sharp as his brain. And literally the first thing i thought of when thinking of Kash was Prince of Persia where Dastan was a thief as well. He is such a nice guy and the sweetest part i
I thought that this book would have adventurous moments and action but the plot was so bland in comparison.
And literally the first thing i thought of when thinking of Kash was Prince of Persia where Dastan was a thief as well.
He is such a nice guy and the sweetest part is the subtle ways in which he tries to show Nix that he loves her like stealing things for her :D
BUT EVERYTHING JUST HAD TO GET RUINED BY THE STUPID LOVE TRIANGLE.
one thing i cannot stand is a love triangle when its not needed.
Heidi Heilig brings you an epic adventure from your wildest dreams with her debut novel The Girl From Everywhere.
Take a vacation in Heidi's imagination by reading her sea shanty adventure of a book—you won't regret it, this I promise you.
There are so many great things happening in this book but I think that the most compelling thing about it is Nix's tangled relationship with her father, the captain of The Temptation.
The emotions in that relationship are really raw and I think my heart shattered a bit while I was in Nix's shoes.
Intricately beautiful. I never knew I wanted to read a story about a time-traveling pirate ship so bad. I can't get over the elements that make up this book what it is.The Girl from Everywhere is brilliantly executed from character dynamics to all the freaking heartbreaking plot twists. Fucking loved it!
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to HarperCollins and Edelweiss.)  “No matter how detailed a map, once we’d visited, we couldn’t go back.”  This book wasn’t bad, but it wasn’t for me.The characters in this were okay, but I didn’t really feel anything for any of them. I did understand Nix’s worries over what would happen to her if her father went back to the time where she was born, but that was it really.The storyline in this just didn’t
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis.
I did understand Nix’s worries over what would happen to her if her father went back to the time where she was born, but that was it really.The storyline in this just didn’t interest me, and I found it quite hard to follow.
It did have its interesting moments, but most of the time I just didn’t care what would happen, and I kept putting this down to read something else.Overall; I think other people will enjoy this book, but it wasn’t for me.6 out of 10
The characters of TGFE were deep, and rich in motivation.
This tale is about found homes and memory.
Both the things in memory that gain beauty when we resurrect them in our minds, and the things that lose beauty when we truly ponder the terrible tradeoffs of choice.
I want to hang out with Nyx, sail to Carthage, feed Swag a dish of pearls, and learn how to move through the veils of time.
I want to dance with Kash, and be called "amira" under a marvel of stars.
I thought this was a very unique book. It has great foundations and I definitely want to know more what happens to the characters. I give it a strong 3.5 stars!
“A sailor?”“Her tutor,” Kashmir said smoothly.Blake cocked his head.
And the worst part is Kashmir never complained about it, never said a word to make her feel worse.
We have a world where some people can travel through time and dimensions with the help of a map.
A map of any land - imaginary or real, but a person can travel with the help of a map only one time.
But I feel that the love-triangle won't go anywhere and maybe it'll become heavier and angsty, but I hope Kashmir will save the book for me like he did with The Girl from Everywhere.
This book is just an odd mix of good things and some not so good things.This story is about Nix and her father, Captain Slate, and their crew as they hunt for a map that will bring them to Honolulu 1868.
Nothing is explained (or maybe I missed the explanation during my skimming, guilty as charged), but the pieces kind of fall together in the end.
Look at how much I know about mythology!"There's a mix of interesting and really flat/pointless characters in this book, and this was where my biggest problem was.
11/29/15So I'm reading it again, for one last look, in the purported final form, and i have the maps now and omg.11/17/15LESS THAN THREE MONTHS TILL LAUNCH OMGGGGGGGGGG
Rating:  3.5/5 stars. (Torn about that extra half star, though, but I'm leaving it for now.)  Everything must come to an end. In every myth, paradise is meant to be lost.  I always love a good time travel story. But add in myths, legends, ships and pirating, and it becomes even more irresistible to me. I held off reading this book last year because the mixed responses got to me (I know, I should see for myself but reviews can be helpful when you're unsure). But this month - right after the sequ
In this book, our main character, Nix, is constantly living in frustration and fear over her father's neverending attempts to travel back in time to save her mother - who died when Nix was a baby.
We eventually get some clarifying answers but it still feels like we don't know enough to truly grasp the conflict that Nix is facing because of her father's decision to reverse her mother's - and her - history.
i was confused 65.4% of the time but it was weirdly entertaining. also the narrator's voice on the audiobook was 10/10i'll think of something semi-funny to write here in the morning, im tired rn ;-;RTC3.5 stars!!
DNF - I couldn't get into this and have decided that if I'm not feeling a book to just let it go, so that's what I'ma do.
4.5 starsI went into this with low expectations because everyone I knew had the shouty caps sort of love for it.I loved Nix. She's smart and strong and wants to learn everything she can.
However, when it comes to her dad, she's like a little girl, trying to figure things out.
I loved the crew and the little glimpses we got of their personalities.
At times it felt a bit dense and overwhelming, but it made for a unique and captivating story.Overall, it was fun read with characters I really enjoyed.
This novel incorporates maps into the time travel theme and is set in the lush, historical Hawaii.
Despite the fact that I loved most of the elements in this book, the pacing was too slow for me to fully enjoy the novel.The Girl From Everywhere is a time travel book that is unlike the others in its genre.
In this book, the characters travel through time using maps.
Heilig is a master of description and her ability to provide such amazing detail to her story is an asset to the book.Although I enjoyed so much about The Girl From Everywhere, I found that the plot was really lacking in places.
DNF at 22%This is perfect example of „it’s me not you“ kind of book.
There was zero connection between me and narrator during those 22% I forced myself to read.
(I wasn’t big fan of writing either.) I’m not sure whether call this combination weird or fantastic but I had very hard time connecting with heroine who has no problem navigating pirate ship traveling in time and simultaneously knowing how to use cell phone and Google.
If you are a fan of mish-mash genre, than this book is for you.
Contemporary, magical realism, adventure, history…this book had it all in those 22% I read.
One thing out of a whole 464 page book, yes, I can live with it.Nix, our main character, is fabulous.
Especially when your father is barking about how the only thing he wants in the world is his true love.
He needed to go away so that Nix and Kash could just start falling in love.
Which is good, because I don't want any romance between Nix and Blake.
Yes, people, there is Hawaii involved, as you'd likely have figured out.
While there may have been a few small things that I didn't completely love, the book as a whole blew me away.
OHHH. YOU GUYS. This book. My review cannot express how magical it is. The words are beautiful, the settings so lush and real, I felt deeply rooted no matter their time and place. And as someone who loves myths and legends, I am so thrilled by how they're weaved into this story. The Girl from Everywhere is unlike any book I've read, and I'm very ready to spend more time with these characters! GET EXCITED ABOUT IT.Also, you should know that Kashmir is my new book crush. Maybe more. I don't know. It's pretty serious!
I like that this story wasn’t so much about the time travel… sure they go to some incredible places, but ultimately this book is about the relationships between the characters and the consequences of the traveling and the sort of life that it leaves these characters with.
She just needs her father to teach her how to travel, but the only time he’s capable is when they have a map in their hands a plan in place to get him back to 1868 Honolulu.
I loved that Heilig quite obviously researched and spent a lot of time making me as a reader feel like I could imagine each and every place Nix and her crew were.
It's so cool how most of these characters know each other when the book starts, but the places where the relationships end up feel like the exact right amount of growth for everything they go through together.
Like I said, so much of the fire and color come later in the book (It really works because the stage is so well set when stuff gets insane) so I don't want to say too much, but I just came to be SO intrigued by her.OOH, and I loveloveLOVE how so much history and mythology are tied together in this.
Another book where the story has promise, but the execution didn't do it for me.
There were moments where I was starting to connect and waiting for it to all snap together for me...but it never happened.
There were parts of the story that held so much promise, but I never connected.
I would have loved to connect more with the ship's crew, the love interest, the friendships, the little dragon, or the villain.
The story goes too long between moments of tension or excitement.
You know that sucker punch moment you had while watching the reveal in "The Usual Suspects"?
