https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/415022.The_Case_for_Christianity
I didn't mind reading it again because it was short, but also because it's a good book.
It's good to read because it's nice opposition to my tendency to mention every possible objection.
If there's anything that my philosophy degree taught me it's that any point of view can be criticized.
Obviously Lewis doesn't answer every objection to Christianity, but he does a nice job of pointing out compelling reasons for a charitable reader to consider it.
It's worth reading Mere Christianity rather than merely this book, but all things considered, it's a rightful classic of Christian apologetics.
Here C.S. Lewis has a logic of his own that makes sense to him and to the Christian people who cheer loudly for him and have claimed him as their trophy.On p.
It is good to feel triumph over them every once in a while and try, even if using swearing and cursing is needed, to show them they don't have a lick of sense and Christians are the ones who have all of it.C.S. Lewis quoted the Atheist or the Pantheist as raising a question about looking at cancer and saying "This is also God".
C.S. Lewis is not the evangelical fundamentalist that Americans like to believe.On the Second Coming..."Truly I tell you, this generation will certainly not pass away until all these things have happened." (Matthew 24:34)C.S. Lewis called this the most embarrassing verse in the Bible.
He wrote.....“Say what you like,” we shall be told, “the apocalyptic beliefs of the first Christians have been proved to be false.
He said in so many words, ‘this generation shall not pass till all these things be done.’ And he was wrong.
I just finished this little book that isn't nearly as easy a read as one might think from the length.
I'm a big C.S. Lewis fan and read this book over 30 years ago.
"Jack" as C.S. Lewis was called by his friends, was brought to Christianity later in life.
He has an amazing way of taking you logically through the arguments for different viewpoints of where we came from and how we should be living.
For someone who is already a Christian, it's a must read.
By the way, it's interesting that was good friends with J.R.R. Tolkien.
They are the same arguments posed by any person of the faith and can be answered in numerous ways unless you are blinded by your faith or simply too lazy to look at them from a scientific point of view.
Point of view.If you are a christian (as I was raised to be) you will find in this book a lot of your own beliefs repeated back to you in a learned tone of voice by a person more well-versed in the subject than yourself (it's a fact, most Christians have never read the bible in its entirety).
This book is less than 80 pages which is the cut off line for a book to be entered onto my all time book list.
I do not really consider this to be a book at all.
This is more like a long short story.
This is basically transcripts of radio broadcasts that Lewis made in England during WWII.
The book is broken up into two parts.
Overall Lewis is a landmark writer of Christian / theology based material, this in not his best.
This short of a book really should not drag so much.
This book made me think, I enjoyed it a lot
A component of Mere Christianity. A keen insight into Christianity for non-believers
I enjoyed reading a book which stands up for Christianity.
Every Lewis book I read is better the last one...I don't know how he does it. His logic in this is downright beautiful.
A very generous friend gave me a very old copy of this book. These "talks" made up part of what later became Mere Christianity.
I love C.S. Lewis and his ahead-of-his-time thinking. This book is no different in all of that. I will say, however, that the final few pages go in direction I don't totally agree with, theologically speaking. So it was unfortunate to pull me away from his otherwise articulate and mind opening thoughts.
I feel like this is a book that is not for everyone. It's hard to read if your in search for something intriguing, but it's a great read if your looking for philosophical reasoning. It reads much like a speech, which at first was a transition but once you get past that you reach the root of this book.
He is able to make a compelling case for Christianity that is easy to understand and follow.
He has a way of explaining things that makes difficult concepts easy to understand.Lewis is able to explain why Christianity makes the most sense and why it is obvious there must be a God and that God must be the God of Christianity.
He makes his case so that it comes across that this is the only way that really makes sense.Now, I don't believe for a minute that everyone will agree with me.
We are sinners who don't really desire God, and so Lewis' simple logic will be easy for people to dismiss.
You can read this book in less than an hour. There are several golden nuggets in it. The last part of the book had a really good discussion of "happiness" and "repentance".
I love all the argument and examples he gives in behalf of Christianity.
His logic and the path he leads his listeners reminds me of my dad.
The next step is to then define the creator.
Once these attributes are established, the next question is what is our relationship to this creator?
Thus, this format was very familiar to me, and I enjoyed seeing Lewis' examples and additional arguments.
I would love to get an opinion of Lewis' thoughts from someone who did not believe in a creator and see how well Lewis' logic holds to him or her.
Finally I understand some of what Lewis writes about!
:)In this extremely short but jam packed book Lewis lays out the case for Christianity.
As a former atheist he is able to speak from both sides and does so rather well.
There were chunks of this book that I connected with and was glad someone had been able to put into words for me.
What is compelling about Lewis is his before and after life.
Before when he was an atheist and after when he came to believe, and trust, in God. He gives credibility where and when some of us can't.
It's a religion you couldn't have guessed."--The Case for Christianity"Badness is only spoiled goodness."--The Case for ChristianityThis is a great comment when we look at Satan and all of the goodness that he possessed and the special beauty and gifts he began with but....in rolls pride (Lewis says it is the greatest vice and the one from which all others come) and there ya go....the rest is history and the present and the future.
"God has landed on this enemy-occupied world in human form...The perfect surrender and humiliation was undergone by Christ: perfect because He was God, surrender and humiliation because He was man."--The Case for Christianity
This one I probably started speed-reading to get it over with.★★ - Average.
Probably skimmed parts of it.★★★ - Decent.
This one had parts that inspired me, impressed me, made me laugh out loud, made me think - it got positive reactions and most of the rest of it was pretty decent too.★★★★★ - Amazing.
This is the best I've read of its genre, the ones I hold on to so I can re-read them and/or loan them out to people looking for a great book.
The best of these change the way I look at the world and operate within it.
I am not a fan of philosophy so I put off reading this book for quite awhile.
But then I found it easy to understand, clear in its exposition, and sometimes humorous.
This book was used as broadcasts to the British public during WW2 to help them get through the war.
In the first chapter it focused on the existence of the law of nature, probably better understood as the human law of nature.
This law was used to prove the existence of God. Chapter 2 carried this further to explain Christ and Christianity.
The question was answered why God became man.
I picked up this book the other day and started reading it. Despite the fact that I am a Christian and I agree with C.S. Lewis' faith, this book really brought me to think and understand what I have been ignoring all this time (Romans 7 - The Law and Sin). Rather than trying to explain my feelings and belief that can only be arbitrarily spoken by me, He very logically and rationally elucidates human morality aka Moral Law or Law of Human Nature by starting to ask/state from the primitive questions.
This book is tough. It's short, which might lead someone to think it's a relatively easy read. But it is philosophically and theologically dense (in a good way, I mean). I didn't find all of his arguments compelling, but I was struck by what C.S. Lewis himself, a former atheist, found compelling, compelling enough that he would convert and become a devout member of the Anglican Church. And it did make me want to read (in the case of TLTWATW, reread) the Chronicles of Narnia for the Christian allegory they are.
A Book in two parts: 1. Right and Wrong as a clue to the meaning of the Universe, 2. What Christians BelieveBoth are simple, straight-forward lectures supporting Christianity. I appreciate his efforts to include a balance of Christian views (giving the material ahead of time to get responses from Church of England, Roman Catholic, Presbyterian, and Methodist).Quotes:"Enemy-occupied territory - that's what this world is.""... a Christian isn't a man who never does wrong, but a man who is enabled to repent and pick himself up and begin over again after each stumble."
Borrowed from public library. Wonderful until the last section. Philosophy showing why Christianity "wins", just common sense. And believing in the Deity of Christ on the basis of His Authority, because He says so, which is how we believe most of the information we learn (e.g. I believe in Texas, though I've not see it, on the authority of those who have). Church of England. Used to be an atheist.
Very short but still manages to present the arguments in a way that even a younger person could understand. Most of the arguments or in common use but it is quite possible that Lewis originated many of them. It's the basics and doesn't go into great detail but enough so that the point gets across.
I enjoy reading C. S. Lewis. He tackles complex subjects and yet is easy to read. My only complaint is that I rarely find a succinct quote I like well enough to add to my collection. I'm left feeling that I understand, but still not well enough to turn around and teach it to someone else. Still, I see why he's considered a must-read for Christians.
I really really enjoyed reading this. I loved his logical reasoning and the examples he gives that really make sense. I wish everyone could read this and see why Christians believe in God and Christ. There are a few doctrinal things that I don't agree with, but even the author says at those parts, hey, this is just my view, not what all Christians believe.
This is an excellent little book. It was also published in England under the title "Broadcast Talks", and is just that. It is a quick read drawn from some of Lewis' broadcast talks, and is a simple, logical apologia for his faith.
In the first half of this 56 page book, CS Lewis explains why he believes in God. In the second half, he makes his case for Christianity. Maybe I love Lewis' writings because they so closely mirror my own. He has amazing insight.
Classic Lewis. Insightful and poetic in so many places. Wrong or unhelpful in a few others, not least the nature of the atonement. Not a book for an undiscerning reader but otherwise a pleasure to read.
