https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28747.CivilWarLand_in_Bad_Decline
Civilwarland in Bad Decline, his 1996 collection of short stories and one novella is Vonnegutesque in the sense that Saunders pokes relentless fun at our society and culture, accepts Louis CK-like the abashed groans, and then plunges ahead with more of his acerbic, vitriolic and wickedly funny as hell slam dunk on our society.
Then there is a mentally disturbed war veteran – in the fake theme park haunted by formerly real live civil war veterans.Several short stories and a novella – and the theme and tone of the collection coalesces into the novella “Bounty”, a caustic satire of Americana gone all wrong.And so it goes.
Civilwarland In Bad Decline, his first collection of stories, paints a grim portrait of a near-future filled with everything from economic collapse, murderous CEO’s, moral degradation on a mass scale, and a world dominated (or enslaved) by the rich, callous and self-absorbed.
Immanuel Kant’s first Categorical Imperative states that ‘ Act only on the maxim whereby thou canst at the same time will that it should become a universal law.’ Through his stories, Saunders argues that if we all look out only for ourselves, if we all ignore the needs of others, then we are doomed to this degradation of moral, ethical, and economic standards.
Saunders use of economical collapse sets each story in a world where it isn’t all that surprising that people would bond together against what they fear.
Maybe I was a bit hard on his later Pastoralia because I needed to warm up to Saunders, maybe my head was just in the right space this time around, or perhaps this really is the superior group of stories.
Then in typical "Saunders hates Capitalism" fashion, there's this next quote concerning a Civil War reenactor who is--out of nowhere and to his dismay--tasked with the duty of firing live rounds at the pesky youth gangs that have been intruding on and defacing the park where he works."I'm an actor," Quinn says.
"Act like a mercenary."Buddy, you just said a mouthful.
The ultimate Guilter ritual is when one of them goes into a frenzy and thrusts his or her hand into a deep fryer.
All the elders have two, and need to be helped on and off with their coats.Economics, politics, ecology, morals and culture degraded dramatically but at the same time vulgarity progressed incongruously.The day it happened, an attractive all-girl glee club was lying around on the concrete in Kawabunga Kove in Day-Glo suits, looking for all the world like a bunch of blooms.
The president and sergeant at arms were standing with brown ankles in the shallow, favorably comparing my Attraction to real surf.
Welcome to the OccupationThe whole way through George Saunders' first collection of short stories, there are suggestions that the world is not as it should be.Imagine a world like this, totally unlike our own:The characters and narrators are (or are surrounded by) kooks and wackos.
They live and breathe pure empathy:"Everyone you've ever loved you've treated like gold."The door of happiness swings open for the selfless:"I look after her and she squeals with delight when I come home, and the sum total of sadness in the world is less than it would have been."This is the real thing.George Saunders and Mark TwainSOUNDTRACK:(view spoiler)[The Chills - "The Male Monster from the Id"https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UJwW7...R.E.M.
I thought this was a short story collection but it’s more like a rock opera, where the stories inhabit the same world you know like Tommy so I shoulda read the blurb :Set in a dystopian near-future in which America has become little more than a theme park in terminal disrepairWell, sugar pie honey George, it’s the same old joke.
Alright, because George is quite brilliant, it’s a firework display of many similar jokes.
But anyways, not a patch on Tenth of December, George's latest collection, which got the P Bryant Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval, presented in a short but tasteful ceremony in Pirates Park, Waldeck Road, Sherwood in May 2013.

I knew the vapid anguish that takes center stage in Saunders' stories.
But now, now -- a quiet concern and disappointment that the world is truly this disturbing, that it wasn't just a cruel joke, and that lessons are painfully slow to be learned by our obstinate population.And then there is George Saunders, always good for a laugh.
George Saunders the new voice of satire, a genre that has always served a function since the classical Greeks, and later Swift.
The only problem, for me, is that I suppose I don't like satire anymore, not in large doses, anyway.
Vonnegut's absurd world just doesn't do it for me anymore.
ADDENDUM: I LIKE SATIRE (AND SAUNDERS) MORE NOW!
Poor George Saunders must have had a real real bad theme park experience in his youth. This collection of stories makes the dystopia of Zombieland seem sedate. I love Saunders' take on American consumption and the way he is able to shove values and virtues of 20th century America into a funky future that makes all our virtues absurd and makes this anti-utopia seem closer than you might have previously imagined.
While these guys, and others I haven't mentioned are very good to extraordinarily good at individual faucets of the game of basketball, Jordan was the best at everything you can ask a shooting guard to be good at.I wouldn't go so far as to completely equate the respective greatness of MJ and DFW, but there is an analogy here.
Because, let's face it, anybody who reads an author expecting a David Foster Wallace doppelgänger is probably going to be disappointed as those who expected Harold Miner to be the next Michael Jordan.Now that that's said, while this argument came to me while I was reading CivilWarLand in Bad Decline, I'm not sure this review is the best place to expound upon it.
saunders kelimenin tam anlamıyla insanın tüylerini ürperten öyküler yazmış. tüyler ürperiyor çünkü yazılanlar hem bize uzak gibi gözüküyor, distopya gibi, hem de aslında ne kadar gerçek olduğunu içten içe biliyoruz.atlatılan savaşlar, yok olan doğa, hayvanlar, insanları köle gibi çalıştıran vahşinin de vahşisi bir kapitalizm, bugün eğlenerek gidilen temaparklarla yaratılan fazlasıyla tedirgin edici dünyalar. fakirin, çirkinin, farklının, ezilmişin kıçına indirilen tekme üstüne tekmeler... tüm bu dehşetin yanında acayip zekice bir mizah...bu, saunders okumaya ilk adımdı, devam edecek.bu arada kitabın sonundaki yazılış hikayesi de ayrı bir hikaye gibi okunabilir.
With a young family relying on him at home, it can't have been easy to juggle everything, but his persistence eventually paid off and he became the much-acclaimed author he is today.Though Saunders looks back on this period fondly, the stories are quite dark.
But I look after her and she squeals with delight when I come home, and the sum total of sadness in the world is less than it would have been."If I have one small criticism it's that the stories are all quite similar in tone and theme.
Video-review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8aiH7...Featured in my Top 5 George Saunders Books: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2Bc7g...George Saunders' debut collection goes a bit over the top with its emotional charge at times, but remains an immensely rewarding, if upsetting, experience. Its stories are balanced and rewarding (although kinda same-y occasionally), the Bounty novella is less elegant but quite unforgettable, and overall he can do things in the span of a page that will make your head spin.
Frammenti di un mondo bizzarroRispetto a “Dieci dicembre”, l’unica raccolta di racconti di Saunders 
It's also satisfying to find I can now detect Saunders' influence in the work of so many other writers I admire - to name a few: Lindsay Hunter's short stories, Kaaron Warren's novel Slights, and recent favourite 
He gives us a desire to be liked, and personal attributes that make us utterly un-likable.
Having placed his flawed and needy children in a world of exacting specifications, he deducts the difference between what we have and what we need from our hearts and our self-esteem and our mental health.
The short stories from the former may not be as polished and potent as those of the later, but it still has everything I loved about Saunders' writing.
The protagonists in all the seven stories fit the downtrodden and the disadvantaged kind.
Vulnerable characters that feel so real, I feel like my heart is being being skewered reading about their day to day lives of bleakness.
Bounty - This one is about a Flawed (mutant), a young, innocent boy with claws instead of toes, escapes from his workplace/prison in order to go after his sister (another Flawed) who was taken by a Normal.
Türkçede yayımlanmış bütün Saunders kitaplarını okumuş biri olarak yapacağım bu yorumu.Eğer yazarı tanıyorsanız kitap tam bir "tipik Saunders kitabı".
Diğer kitaplarına oranla mekanlardaki bu az çeşitlilik ve hatta yer yer tekdüzelik yazara yakıştırdığım bir şey değil.
Oysa hicvini çıkardığı dağlara ve özgün kurmacalarına hiçbir lafım yok.Kitap öykülerden oluşmasının yanı sıa bir adet de novella içeriyor.
Yine edebi yanı olduğu kadar fikirleri de güçlü bir kitap olmuş.
Üst sıralara oynamadı fakat alt sıralarda kesinlikle değil.Son olarak, çeviri ve editörlük Delidolu Kitap'ın her zamanki kalitesinde.
Tertemiz, mis gibi, okuru rahatsız edecek hiçbir şey olmadığı gibi yerinde Türkçeleştirmelerle oldukça keyifli de.
There’s only six short stories and one novella in the collection, yet four of them take place in run-down amusement parks.
Yes, that’s a great setting for a story, with rich possibilities of social satire among the seedy attractions and grease soaked food stalls, but not great enough to use over and over again.The book is funny, but be warned, the humor is quirky and more than a little twisted.
In “The 400-Pound CEO”, the main character works for Humane Raccoon Alternatives where nuisance raccoons are trapped and then set free in the wild (or so their sales brochures claim):“At noon, another load of raccoons comes in, and Claude takes them out back of the office and executes them with a tire iron.
I found three of the stories--"CivilWarLand in Bad Decline," "Isabelle," and "The 400-Pound CEO"--absolutely revelatory: trust me, you have never read anything like these stories before.
They aren't really heroic, but their good intentions, blundering innocence, and unadorned decency are shining beacons of hope amid the moral wreckage that surrounds them.The remaining stories follow the same pattern but failed to move me; they range from good/OK to tedious.
The bizarre circumstances and setting are given the spotlight, and though definitely original, I tire easily of indulgent flights of fancy and gimmicky castles in the sand.It was worth the read for those three stories, though.
And that unique narrative voice – satiric, colloquial, with a finely tuned ear to the banal cadences of the tech world and corporate-speak – is certainly there.But perhaps because I liked the later book so much, these feel embryonic, brimming with potential rather than fully realized.
He's still critical of authority; there are lots of horrible bosses in this book.
And he displays a wickedly funny imagination: many of these stories are set in absurd theme parks that have a kernel of truth about them.But a lot of these tales sound the same.
Kitap dünyaya 1996 yılından bakıyor ama yarattığı kestirim ilk günkü kadar taze; çünkü öyküler güçlü, zekice yazılmış ve en önemlisi, tamamı büyük bir öngörü sahibi.Örneğin kitaptaki son öyküyü, yani "Bereket" isimli novellayı ele alırsak bu öngörüyü daha rahat anlayabiliriz: "Normal" insanları eğlendirmekle yükümlü "kusurlu"larla dolu bir eğlence parkı ve o parktan kaçıp insanlıktan nasibini almamış bir ülkeyi gözlemleyen bir kusurlu, öykünün iskeletini oluşturuyor.
"Ezik Mary’nin Başarısızlıkla Sonuçlanan Terör Harekâtı" işverenlerin daha dikkatli olması gerektiğini vurgularken, kitaptaki en bilimkurgu öykü olan "Son İndirme Bayan Schwartz İçin", sahip olduğumuz anılarla yaşamanın aslında ne kadar zor bir iş olduğunu anımsatıyor.Yani Saunders’ın kahramanları yine her zamanki kadar garip gureba, fakir fukara, absürt, rezil, üçkâğıtçı ve yalnız.
George Saunders' debut short story collection places us in a series of strange dystopian settings. His characters navigate absurd realities, lamenting the unfair hand they've been dealt and hoping for something more. They do questionable (sometimes unforgivable) things, and then seek redemption in a world that may not offer it. What I love about Saunders is that he consistently takes us to the far reaches of despair and post-modern irony while reassuring us that earnestness is still possible.
I've mentioned elsewhere that there feels like a moral piety in Saunders' fiction that is on display for the reader.
I prefer to be paralyzed like the characters in Saunders' fiction.
I usually don't have a problem with spoilers so I'm only going to ask you to not spoil if it would make you feel guilty afterwards, assuming that there is any Breaking Bad relevance in any potential comments.
8/10/13 Reading Thoughts: At a certain point, this being my third Saunders collection this summer, his stories start to feel claustrophobic.
Art that makes me feel like shit is valid art. There are a lot of reasons to feel like shit here too. Good thing Saunders is funny and writes with some hope of redemption, or else you might as well throw yourself off a bridge upon finishing just about any of these stories. Great stuff here. Check the title track at least. But in my opinion not a one disappoints.5
This is some of the saddest and most affecting fiction I've read in a little while.
Saunders taps into something dark and introspective in this book by using bizarre settings and fantastical elements.
Though I see from the reviews "Offloading Mrs. Schwartz" is regarded as the deepest emotionally in this book (it's really good), I actually found myself returning to thinking about "The 400-pound CEO" and "Downtrodden Mary's Failed Campaign of Terror" -- both of which use common tropes of outsiderness, obesity and age, as key aspects of the narrators' lives.
And I don't think it's an accident that Saunders chooses theme parks as the setting for his stories.
That dynamic is a powerful thing that Saunders uses in his stories.
I'm really glad I read this book.
An excellent compilation of short stories with biting criticisms of today's views and technologies shown through their ultimate excesses born out in the future.
The titular short story is particularly hilarious and provides a great deal of commentary on the American worker and how culture develops.
The Four Hundred Pound CEO is also a story well worth reading, hilarious and demonstrative of the hidden and visible crosses we are all forced to bear.
Though some would argue that all of Saunder's work in this compilation covers the same motif's using similar protagonists, I tend to think that this commentary and point of view is is both refreshing and necessary.
Pornographic sadness. He gets better though :)
Some funny moments. Some really odd stuff going on, and it was cool, but some what forgettable. Or I am wrong. I might be flawed.
but it got a bit repetitive.Civilwarland in Bad Decline - A hapless worker is stuck in his job at a decrepit, near-bankrupt historical theme park recreating the Civil War. The reader gradually realizes that the United States outside the theme park is in even worse shape, as the park is terrorized by violent gangs, and the boss comes up with a solution that might be worse than the problem.Isabelle - In an America torn by racial violence and brutality, a boy is motivated to care for the disabled daughter of a murderous cop.The Wavemaker Falters - A hapless worker at a water theme park accidentally causes a boy's death, and, guilt-ridden, faces the consequences of that, while dealing with the quotidian banality of his job.The 400-pound CEO - A fat guy whom no one respects is a hapless worker at a pest-trapping company that claims to catch-and-release, but really dumps the bodies of the raccoons they trap in a big ol' pit.
Science fiction does not normally tickle my fancy, but this time is relevant as just a few decades into the American future and I enjoyed the humorously dark short stories of theme parks and working-class pathos, but I truly loved the novella: My experience with short stories capped with a novella is a good one, where this first time author (in 1996) seems to be warming up and readying for a novel.
