https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1166599.The_Gathering_Storm
Fanfreakingtastic! 🖤🐾🐺
Strange events and odd occurrences.
The ordinary twisted and strange.
War, death and madness have become part of day-to-day life in the Westlands as the final struggle with the Shadow is at hand…The Gathering Storm is the first of the three books written after the Creator’s passing.
Light be praised.Storylines are finally moving towards an end.
"The Wheel has groaned its final rotation, the clock has lost its spring, the serpent heaves its final gasps.”
Wheel of Time reviews:#1 
The Gathering Storm
So it wasn't until Robert Jordan died that I went back and picked up the last few books that I hadn't read, in anticipation of Brandon Sanderson's writing the final novel.
The plot moves forward at a satisfying pace and resolves many of the plotlines that we have been waiting years for.
I totally recommend the Gathering Storm as a book that will renew the faith of Jordan readers like me, who became disenchanted over the years.
*** 5++++ ***Another buddy read with the Fantasy Addicts at BB&B! May the Wheel keep on turning!!!  "..."“Pessimism, she is a fond friend of yours, yes?" -That's uncalled for. I barely know her. Mere acquaintances, at best.”..." WOW!!! Brandon Sanderson did Robert Jordan proud!!! What a ride! What an amazing series!!! The complexity of plot and characters are not comparable to anything else I have ever read in my entire life! It would be impossible for me to even delve into what happens in t
It would be impossible for me to even delve into what happens in this book...
And Sanderson's stile of writing, although not the same as Jordan's, fits perfectly with the feel of the series, mostly in the ability to lace even the toughest situations with some humor and make us look on the bright side of the problem!
"..."“The Wheel has turned, for better or worse.
But so long as it turns, folk may hope, folk may care.
As long as the Wheel turns.
To all fans of Epic Fantasy, you guys have to give the series a try!
I guess the big question that counts when considering this 12th volume of the WoT is how did I feel about the switch from Robert Jordan to Brandon Sanderson?
I also felt like Sanderson had a slightly different interpretation of some of the WoT characters than Jordan himself had.
Talmanes was also a bit different but Sanderson had more wiggle room there as Talmanes was only a minor secondary character in Jordan's books while in this one he was basically promoted to Mat's main sidekick.
The story itself in this 12th WoT book was actually pretty good.
I am not going to lie, Sanderson is the reason I began reading the WoT series (because I wanted to read everything by him) but along the way Jordan sucked me in, developed this stunning world of visionary, resentful, powerful and dangerous characters, and created a massively fun story.
Sanderson being a long-term fan of the series is also obviously a big help to him because he knew these characters and he knew who they were before he began writing them, and he does a fab job of emulating them and continuing their storylines in a way that makes them believable still.
4.75 Someone Else is Driving the Car Stars   “The end is near," … "The Wheel has groaned its final rotation, the clock has lost its spring, the serpent heaves its final gasps.”  This is the first book that was written after Robert Jordan’s death by Brandon Sanderson. I got so emotional when I read the opening words in the Foreword. I have not tried to imitate Mr. Jordan’s style. Instead, I’ve adapted my style to be appropriate to The Wheel of Time. My main goal was to stay true to the souls of t
Yes there are some differences in the writing styles and a few of the characters change a smidge more than expected but overall it is amazing how well he did.The Best Parts: ♔ - The better pacing of the story.
It has been an emotion trip with Lews Therin in Rand’s head but we definitely got some great resolution on that story arc and I’m really happy with it.The Worst Parts: (they aren’t really bad they are just different) BS did a great job with this but there are going to be a few things that are different that you notice.1 – Robert Jordan’s humor was more situational and Brandon Sanderson’s is more banter/wit type.
Fortunately for the series' fans Jordan left enough notes regarding further plot developments and it is said the final chapters of the last book were entirely written by him.
I can literally feel him rushing to reach the end of the series and completely ignoring such trivialities along the way.I need to be very generic in this part of the review to avoid very big spoilers as I am about to talk about some of the plot resolutions.
4 stars
Yet a friend had recommended the series strongly to me so I decided to read it and I personally very much enjoyed the story all the way up to this twelfth volume.
Then when I read The Gathering Storm I was impressed by how skilfully put together the story was and consider it to be one of the finest in the entire series.Brandon Sanderson, as an author, has several strengths which combat Jordan's weaknesses nicely in this novel.
On the other hand I feel that Jordan at times writes in a style that is overly long and above what he should aim for.
The early WoT books had a hell of a lot pacing issues, there were moments when I wondered if this thing will ever end.
My fellow buddy readers more familiar with Mr. Sanderson's works and style pointed out a few other differences, like the humour, but the only other difference I noticed was the more direct approach to certain situations which I had come to expect to be left vague or explained with a more subtle approach.
Things I have been dreading for books came to pass and the results left me at times angry, sad, frustrated, elated and once even sobbing outright.
Sanderson love <3Brilliant book. Fast paced, lots of shit happening. Couldn't spot any differences in the writing style initially, but signs were there.The beginning of the end!
I like to think that this book is the first result of what it would have been like if Jordan and Sanderson co-authored this book together in real-time.
That just might be because these are the closing books and everything would have been racing towards the end anyway, but I do not think there is anyone who could have done Jordan saga better justice than Sanderson who is a huge fan himself.
Also, she gets exiled by Rand.-	Egwene puts in a solid effort for star of this book.
The woman stood like vengeance itself, the power of saidar like a storm around her.
The fantasy aspect fell away, and there was no sense of progression towards an ending; the story was becoming a soap opera of endless one-off tasks.A couple of Mat chapters deserve special mention: here Sanderson incorporates humour and horror that touched me far more than thousands of Robert Jordan's pages.I don't know whether Jordan intended the direction Sanderson aims the series in raising the philosophical implications of prophecy, reincarnation and fate, but I'm really enjoying it.The book still is slow, but by Wheel of Time standards, a lot happens and does so much more convincingly.
Book number twelve in the series and I really think I liked it the best so far.
What's not to like when my favourite characters are featured so much.
Rand of course has been a favourite from the beginning but now I also find Mat to be interesting and very entertaining.
Brandon Sanderson's writing is easier to read than Robert Jordan's was in the earlier books and the pace overall seems better.
Oh and Sanderson also knows how to finish a book with a brilliant ending.
I think I must read them slowly as I will miss them when they are done.
It's like Sanderson took all of the awesomeness of Jordan's characters and his world and finally wrote it in a way that I could appreciate it.
Except Rand, who was suuuuuch an a-hole the whole time, but at least that was on purpose.Okay, but in all seriousness, I don't think anybody but people involved in the making of the book will ever know how much of this was Sanderson and how much was Jordan, all I know is that I really, really liked this book.
Info koji mi svi imamo jeste da je Dzordan na samrtnickoj postelji diktirao svojoj zeni sta sve treba da se odigra a ona je nakon njegove smrti nasla nekoga da to pretoci u roman/romane.
A opet i da su sve ideje 100% njegove, Dzordanove, Sandersonova realizacija istih dize ovaj serijal u sam vrh epske fantastike.
Stoga imalo je smisla muciti se kroz hiljade i hiljde strane koje sam do sada morao da procitam, dati desetom delu dve zvezdice i trpeti krvave Ais Sedai samo da bi se doslo do ovog velikog finala koje je podeljeno u tri toma.
Ovaj prvi svakako zasluzuje pet zvezdica, prvih pet zvezdica za neku knjigu iz ovog serijala.
Brandon Sanderson was the perfect choice for finishing this epic series.First read November 2009Latest read December 2016
WARNING: THERE ARE MAJOR SPOILERS IN THE COMMENTS SO SKIP IF YOU HAVEN"T READ THE BOOK!!!!!I said I wasn't interested.
I busted my ankle so since I was flat on my back I was able to have quite the marathon in this world.I am surprised how much I liked it, and alot more than the last books Jordan actually wrote!
And the wonderful world that Jordan created but misused after the first few books is back!For all you action buffs who love battles, that is lacking here.
Like a lot of fans of this series I was a little nervous going into The Gathering Storm because I wasn't sure if Brandon Sanderson would be able to capture the feel of the Wheel of Time series in quite the way Robert Jordan has created it.
It's quite sad to see Rand fighting against his instincts and also struggling with his madness in this book but his storyline is definitely interesting and I think he made a key realisation towards the end of the book that is going to make things a little easier for him going forwards.Egwene really shines in this book, she really started to show her strength in the previous instalment and that just continues here.
Her chapters were always by far the most interesting parts, even over my those of my favorite character Mat's chapters.I remember reading a lot of criticism from fans that Mr. Sanderson didn't do a good job with Mat, and that he changed a lot from the way Mr. Jordan wrote him.
However, I still enjoyed his parts quite a lot, and I'm definitely looking forward to what I know is yet to come for him in the final two books.I don't remember being so annoyed at Rand this late in the series as I was during this reread.
There are too many great things to keep track of and mention in reviews about WoT books at this point but, in general, all you have to really know is that it was amazing.
But I'm glad that despite the 'heaviness' and 'finality' of it all that the humour in these books is still sharp and witty and fantastic.
Really glad that none of that was lost when Sanderson took over.
And I've GOT to mention Egwene.
Egwene slowly taking over The White Tower from the inside was one of the most engaging things to read DAMN.
Okay, I've got to put everything else aside till I read this...it's nearly 800 pages and other people at the library are waiting for me to finish it.Well at least they finally killed *** ******.
I live in hope that some one in a future generation will take the entire 14 volumes (plus the prequel New Spring) and turn them over to a good editor.I know some of Mr. Jordan's fans are not happy with me here, I have seen the "5 star ratings" and believe me when I say I'm happy for you.
Brandon Sanderson is a much better writer than Robert Jordan, and mind you I read all 11 books by Jordan so he's not THAT shabby!
Harriet (Robert jordan's widow) picked the PERFECT writer to finish the series from Jordan's notes.
But an alert reader who has also read Sanderson's work will see his style peek through from time to time.I really like the whole series but I'm overly fond of 1,000 plus page books.
I think it will always be known as one of the great epic fantasies of all time.I'll add more once I've finished!
"Two hands.
One to destroy, the other to save.
A narrativa sutil do Brandon Sanderson deu a acelerada que a série precisava.
Não senti mudanças na personalidade dos personagens, e isso me agradou muito, era algo que eu receava...Muitos momentos tensos e agoniantes me fizeram ter diferentes sensações, da alegria a tristeza...Simplesmente fantástico."At the end of time, when the many become one, the last storm shall gather its angry winds to destroy a land already dying.
And at its center,the blind man shall stand upon his own grave.
There he shall see again, and weep for what has been wrought."
I do not know any person who has actually read this series who couldn't immediately tell that this was a different individual writing the story.
I do not need to describe the stupidity and just WTF sort of crap that he makes you react to when I can just show you evidence like this:  Lelaine wasn't beautiful, but she was pretty, particularly when she smiled.
She wasn't pretty like Egwene, who made you want to spend time with her.
Itwas pretty epic seeing Egwene face off the Elaida and the Seanchan!
"We can find a way, Rand," Nynaeve said.
Chapter 50 was the best shit from Rand I have seen since the battle in the sky in the Great Hunt.
Brandon Sanderson writing the last few books is a definite gain for the Wheel of Time.
Though this world belongs to Jordan, it needed Sanderson, for the pace of the story, for the added humor which is not just funny to the Aiel.
All of this was acceptable up to a point.
But now that we are approaching the end of all things, I would like the stories to converge and conclude.
And that did happen, thank you Mr. Sanderson.Though there was a slight change in the writing-style, it was much close to the way Mr. Jordan wrote.
Looking back on the story, those slow and boring books were needed parts of the whole, it just so happened that all of the boring happened to occur at the same time in the storyline and made for some very dull books in the middle.Jordan pulled the series out of it’s rut with Knife of Dreams, the final volume he completed before his death, and promised that the end was nigh, with a single volume left to be written.
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA QUÉ BIEN ESCRIBES BRANDONGUAPOBONICOBIEN PEINAO—Nacho Iribarnegaray, filólogo
That fat bearded bastard promised to finish the series in only one more book… but the leaches that are the publishers or IDK how the fucking book publishing industry works or nothing… but GOD DAMN!
God fucking damn it don’t spent half a fucking page explaining to me… I know..
Something bigger that a few Novices bitching… but mostly it was how fucking ridiculous the re-explanations of things any person reading Book #12 is bound to know… you know when you listening to a radio show?
