https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17573685-the-feminine-mystique
If that's what you think this is about, my review isn't going to change your mind so you might as well just go shoot a ruffled grouse and make your woman cook it for you.The Feminine Mystique does, however, bring attention and awareness to the mystique that is femininity - that women are good for use of their wombs and their cooking skills and maybe one or two other things, so long as those things benefit the husband (and maybe the children) more than anyone else.
i think the main obstacles preventing this book from passing as modern are (1) the overt disapproval of homosexuals or any kind of sexual deviance from the apple-pie-norm; (2) the radical generalizations Ms. Friedan makes about entire populations; and (3) the focus on white, middle and upper class women as though they were the only women around, or at least worth talking about.
I got Friedan's message early on, and seriously considered not reading to the end, but i'm glad i did; kind of like climbing the mountain because it's there - gotta plant my flag at the top of Mount Mystique.
God rest her soul, I didn't appreciate it at the time and it didn't make me any less of a brat.
Instead of marrying when the war ended, she stayed on and attained a position of prominence for a woman at that time.
She married very late, at age 29, and overnight went from the life of an independent woman with a busy career in a big city, to a full-time small-city housewife.
I believed then and I believe now that to succumb willingly to a life of, let's face it, servitude and domesticity, with a sudden, total loss of status can kill you.
If I'd read it back then, maybe I would have recognized the wretched inequalities in my world." The book so clearly depicts the ideals of my mother and of many women of her generation (born in the 1920s).
And because of my mother's firm belief in the feminine mystique (woman born for man's purposes), I was trained by her to believe that this was the only way to be a women in the world.
The Feminine Mystique by Betty Friedan is an iconic book that relentlessly changed the way the American woman saw herself, until its first publication in 1963.
If you wanted to be something else, something not more but just different you didn't had the choice.Friedan's whole point is this, it doesn't diminish the want of a woman to be a housewife and a mother, it just states the actual fact, that you can be all that and a thousand more things, or not.
When I was in elementary school- grades 1-7- from fall of 1965 to June of 1972, I was struck by the differences between other women and my mother.
While those moms cooked, cleaned, raised kids, gossiped with each other, and volunteered to give class parties, my own mother worked.
My dad was the only dad picking up his kid at my elementary school which fascinated the other mothers who came to pick up theirs.
Your kids will not rot or die if you work, get a degree, own a business, and live your own life and not just reflect your dreams through them.
Have you ever read one of Richard Yates's novels such as Revolutionary Road and said "Gaaaawwwwwd, he's a great writer, but why'd he have to make it so depressing?"? The Feminine Mystique will show you that he was accurately portraying the despair and feeling of entrapment many married women were experiencing in post-WWII America. 4.5 stars Hard to rate because it's often needlessly wordy and overlong in general, but her extensive research and groundbreaking (at the time) information warrant a high rating. A fascinating overview of American women throughout various periods of history.
And even in Friedan's time period, I can't imagine that most men's work was super intellectually stimulating, that all men just hopped out of bed in the morning excited to go do their jobs.But moving on to what I think is actually more interesting.If Friedan had done more research she may have also realized that even if all women worked outside the home SOMEONE has to take care of the kids.
The woman's role that Friedan has such a big problem with was a poor solution to the real problem--the removal of children from the world.I have a great lecture about this on YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XQuMW...The solution isn't daycare and school and women in the workforce.
Less than 20 years after the war, she uses death camps as a metaphor for American housewives' entrapment.
Tellingly, Friedan's bio on Jewish Women's Archive webpage (jwa.org) contains the following excerpt: Despite its popularity, [Feminine Mystique] caused her personal troubles.
Start by reading The Time of Women.4) While I understand that this book, due to its subject matter, is extremely heteronormative, it must be said that Ms. Friedan has surprisingly macho views on homosexuality.
I had a demeaning encounter with Ms Friedan on the topic of celebrating 30 years of the Feminist Movement.
We had a single income family.Years later, working with some new moms of a younger generation I mentioned the criticisms dished out to those of us my age, who were just-a-moms at home.
I'd been told in no uncertain terms it was foolish of me to raise my own children when "today's economy" needed both parents working.
One of the young moms gasped and said firmly "WHO told you you couldn't stay home and raise your own children!" I replied Betty Friedan.
Keep in mind The Feminine Mystique's publication date: now, it may seem obvious that women are so much more than placid housewives and subservient sex objects, but back in early twentieth century America, they still faced blatant sexism masked under messages about how to maintain a family.
Once she begins to see through the delusions of the feminine mystique - and realizes that neither her husband nor her children, nor the things in her house, nor sex, nor being like all the other women, can give her a self - she often finds the solution much easier than she anticipated."Overall, my favorite message from The Feminine Mystique centers on not needing a man, boyfriend, or husband to feel complete.
for me, it was helpful to read this in light of my recent life changes-- i think that the past failures of society towards women should be a learning opportunity for me.
i am interested though, what friedan might think about the ills plaguing more recent generations.
an interesting element of the book is her use of the word "sex" where most modern writers would use the word "gender." the connotations of "sex" over "gender" do really suggest that women were imprisoned by their biology.
society told them to revel in their inherent femaleness, which friedan argues is "oversexed." fast forward 40 years in the future-- people are still arguing that women are "oversexed", but in a different way!
But reading this book, filled with her dedicated research, I realized she was making a deeper point than that.
The point is that being “just a housewife”, if your intellectual capacity requires more, is never an acceptable choice, even if you think you are making that choice of your own free will.
The kind of ideal woman she describes is the kind who makes an effort to develop herself intellectually, to fully discover who she is, and is therefore a much happier and fulfilled wife and mother when she does take on the traditionally ‘feminine” roles in society.
Putting this on my re-read list. I have changed a lot since reading it in college. Updated review pending.
مشكلته الوحيدة غير متوفر باللغة العربية بس حنحاول نختصره توا؛ تفكير النساء في الولايات المتحدة كيف ما استنتجت من خلال قراءتي له في فترة الستينات مشابهة للعقلية الليبية ( في الموضوع هذا بس ) الكاتبة بيتِى فريدان لاحظت أن في مشكلة لكن مافيش حد عارف ولا يقدر يقول اسمها (مش ڤولديمورت في الحالة هذي) المشكلة هذي عبارة عن حالة فراغ أُصيبت بها ربات البيوت في الوقت هذكي، في بداية الكتاب تبدا بكلمة سيدة تقابلت معاها، قالتلها ” بدأت نحس في أني بدون شخصية، انا نطيب الوجبات، نظم الحوش، الشخص الي يكلموه بعد مايلقوش حاجة لكن انا من ؟ “ احجية الانوثة الي مرت بيها النساء في فترة هذكي سبب نوع من التناقض و انفصام الشخصية، يعني تحاول تكون رمز الانوثة الكامل و مع ذلك تبي حاجات نفس عمل و مستقبل مختلف.

No woman can be fully formed and satisfied if her identity exists only through her husband and children.) On some topics, though, it's a document from a time capsule; lots of people in 1963, Friedan included, saw male homosexuality as something caused by bad mothering rather than nature.
Friedan recognizes the baleful influence of Freud on women's identity, yet she can't completely sever herself from all of his ideas, and psychoanalysis and psychotherapy as something lots of people took part in is a thread running throughout the book.
In the book she does cite to Russia and [socialist 1950s] Israel as model nations where women had left their children to the care of the state "without much noticeable effect," but for the most part she presents her ideas without direct confrontation to either capitalism or democracy.Like other propaganda, Betty's research focuses almost exclusively on those examples that support her view.
The art of good homemaking should be the goal of every normal woman."The frank declarations of profit motivation and manipulation can be shocking, even taken in their historical context (another quote from an advertising report: "It might be possible to suggest through advertising that not to take advantage of all 12 uses of X Mix is to limit your efforts to give pleasure to your family.
I think the problem is real enough to merit Friedan plunging the way she did with this book into attempting to understand and dissect what it was that had women of the time dropping everything and going home to live a life that in all honestly resembles that of a nurturing domestic animal only to reach a point where there is nothing left to do but fall apart and have some sort of crisis of character ie the problem with no name ie the Feminine Mystique.
She notes that these women, the educated housewives who gave up their education and career to dedicate themselves to being a mother and housewife, have serious psychological problems, and the don't understand why since they often have very good lives (in terms of family, money, status, etc.), this is "the problem that cannot be named." Moreover, Friedan finds it is coming out in the next generation, in their children, boys in particular, and husbands.
Friedan then starts her history of feminism, and claims that many people don't know the rights won and how difficult it was (I think this is pretty true since many people say this book was the beginning of US feminism).
The following quote sums up much of what I took away from the book: "Self-esteem in woman, as well as in man, can only be based on real capacity, competence, and achievement; on deserved respect from others rather than unwarranted adulation....if (that) occupation does not demand, or permit, realization of woman's full abilities, it cannot provide self-esteem, much less pave the way to a higher level of self-realization."This is a book that, while dated, should be a must read for all women in patriarchal societies.
Women everywhere should understand our past and foresee a future for themselves.
Awful. Just awful. The moment you compare the lives of American middle class housewives to concentration camp inhabitants. I'm out.
The result is, as persuaded as I was by the book’s message, there was many I time I set the book down and had no temptation to pick it up again to learn another fascinating nuance of Freudian psychology or Meadian anthropology.Therefore, I would recommend to read only the following chapters:1.
The Passionate Journey – optional if you want to read about the history of feminism, but not at all necessary to the book’s point8.
Whilst many people in my book club didn't manage to read the whole book (they thought it "dry", "repetitive", "hard going" and "dated"), I not only enjoyed the book itself (though I'd have to agree that it's quite repetitive, and at times a bit crass), but particularly the discussion it yielded.
Never before did one of our book club discussions stay focussed on the subject for two full hours.
Obviously, it was a topic that touched and appealed to everybody in the group, but I thank Betty Friedan for her outspoken and inspiring words; it definitely has made me (re-)consider some of my life choices and ponder my path in the future.
That's my mother.The difference between then and now? Pizza Bagels.
She had done her homework and was proving it.I understand why she did that though, because as a woman writing about women in the early 1960s, she knew she would take some heat and had to stand strong.Another part of the work for me was all the emotion she evoked.
I felt chagrined to recognize how much the "feminine mystique" still had a hold on me in those years and caused such conflicted emotions and guilt as I tried to also follow my own dreams and keep a semblance of my own identity.All in all, it was a rewarding reading experience despite how long it took to get through the book.
I think it was an important book for the time it was written, and it was brave enough to address the stigma against homosexuality, the faulty theories of sexuality by Sigmund Freud, and capitalism's role of keeping women in our place.
There are times when I felt angry while reading the book, on behalf of the women who came before me.
It's because of books like this and women like Betty Friedan that the Women's March took place on January 21, 2017, and why we will not go backwards.
Or did they want them because they also were human?""What happens when education gives new authority to the feminine ' shoulds ' - which already have the authority of tradition, convention, prejudice, popular opinion - instead of giving women the power of critical thought, the independence and autonomy to question blind authority, new or old?""what happens if the environment frowns on that courage and strength-sometimes virtually forbids, and seldom actually encourages, that growth in the child who is a girl?
what happens if human growth is considered antagonistic to femininity, to fulfillment as a woman, to woman's sexuality?"it's terrifying how all things said in the book are still relevant now!!such a great read that can't be read fast..
The book that started it all. Still inspirational, still educational after 50 years.
