https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19494.The_Spy_Who_Came_In_from_the_Cold
I am of two minds now that I have finished The Spy Who Came in From the Cold for the first time: I am irritated at myself for having postponed the pleasure of reading this magnificent book for so many years, and yet I am exhilarated and excited too, marked by this unqualified encounter with greatness.I certainly was stupid all these years, for I did not read this book—at least in part--because I considered it “just a spy novel” (albeit a superb one), and the “spy novel"—at least since Ian Fleming ruined it—is not one of my favorite genres.
”What do you think spies are: priests, saints, and martyrs? They’re a squalid procession of vain fools, traitors too, yes; pansies, sadists, and drunkards, people who play cowboys and Indians to brighten their rotten lives. Do you think they sit like monks in London balancing the rights and wrongs?” Checkpoint Charlie where it all begins.John Le Carre A.K.A. David John Moore Cornwell while in college started working for MI5 and then later transferred to MI6. He worked as a consul (code for spy)
There was certainly nothing but disgust and terror, which was exactly what I was supposed to feel: the Wall was perfect theatre as well as a perfect symbol of the monstrosity of ideology gone mad.”This moment spawned The Spy Who Came in From the Cold.He’d written two little novels, almost novellas, where he introduces his character George Smiley.
Leamas is recalled to London where in a meeting with Control, head of the Circus; and of course, Smiley is there, a plan is hatched to bring Mundt down.
Winner of the Edgar and Dagger awards, The Spy Who Came in from the Cold is a wonderfully written International espionage novel.
Leamus plays the role of a disenchanted, drunk set on taking down Mundt, the head of East German intelligence, who killed off Alec’s team in Europe.
As the team’s demise was considered Alec’s fault, his role playing is quite realistic to the other side.The Spy Who Came in from the Cold is gritty with superb dialogue.
A few years ago the Broadway musical “Wicked” came to Nashville and my family and I went to experience this production at the Tennessee Performing Arts Theater.
I have actually seen a musical on Broadway (Rock of Ages) and I was impressed.
This is simply a very well written book.Add to that the psychological depth and the labyrinthine twists and turns of the interactions between east and west operatives and there is little doubt why this novel has collected such accolades.
It was his breakthrough novel and 50 years later he was still telling people it had nothing to do with his previous job in the Secret Service; that it was a figment of his imagination only; that had it been based on any facts whatsoever, it would never have been allowed into publication.None of that registered at the time with the media and critics.
However, no-one asked me to, and I bow to John Le Carré’s superior skill in writing a fitting ending for a heart-racing, heartbreaking spy novel.
A profound book, that surpassed all my expectations. A hell of a ride from the first page till the last word. It's a cold and dark book which is written very intelligently. It was hailed as one of the best among the world's top classic espionage-books ever written. And, now that I see in hindsight, it has truly surpassed all the spy thrillers, in terms of quality and scope, that I've read before reading this one; and it has now climbed the ladder to reach the top - in my all time favorite list.Highly Recommended!
“It is said that men condemned to death are subject to sudden moments of elation; as if, like moths in the fire, their destruction were coincidental with attainment.”Wow, that was boring.
And I did not even have any expectations towards it.
I don't have much to say about this book.
If you want to read it because you expect action and thrill and incredible escape plans or impossible heists, you better move on to the next book.
If there was any action, we only hear of it after it has already happened, through reports and dialogues.
The coolest thing about it is the cover design.Find more of my books on Instagram
I think if I had lived through more of the Cold War I would have enjoyed this book more.
I kept having to clear my mind and put myself back into the serious mentality of the Cold War. I am too used to the James Bond/Hollywood ideal of spies and espionage in this era.
Having the Berlin Wall as a locale a few times in the book definitely stressed the intensity of the time period.If you like serious historical fiction, post WWII cold war tales, and don't mind your characters grittier than James Bond, I think you will enjoy this one a lot.
This is so far away from the exotic travels of 007, mainly taking in the sights of airports, road checkpoints, chilly rooms and deserted streets, le Carré shows a Europe lingering in the darkness of the cold war, and paints a grey and gloomy picture of just about everyone involved, the pacing in slow but very intelligent in it's full bodied descriptions of life as a spy, and sadly for those involved this is a dull and rather empty existence, where they give up so much for Queen and country, but have little to show for it.
Perhaps the greatest spy novel ever, Le Carré has us in the heart of the cold war with a dicey exchange of spies. It is chilling (as cold as the title) and realistic and hair-raising. A true classic!
Okay to begin this review I want to point out that, except for a number of Tom Clancy novels, I have only read a handful of spy thrillers so what impressed me about this book may be pretty typical stuff in the better works of the genre.
From here, this tightly woven, brilliantly executed plot moves at an incredibly fast pace and is filled with superb twists, amazing dialogue and great characters, all of which blur the lines between good and bad.
So I read this one by John Le Carre who is like the Raymond Chandler of spy books like everyone reads them even if they hate their genres, like some people go on about Bix Beiderbecke who actually hate jazz and some other people bought one non-rock cd in their entire life and it was the Buena Vista Social Club; only Raymond Chandler was a god and he was funny.
John le Carre - not so funny.Well it was okay.
Or wait, maybe that was the plot of Tinker Tailor Soldier Mole which I also read.
Blah, moles.
It had to have been a hell of a shock to read a novel like this from a writer who had worked for British intelligence who convincingly told a story where the conflict between the two sides was a series of elaborate con games about either hiding what you knew or tricking the other guy into believing a lie.
And as demonstrated here, both sides fully believed that the ends justified the means.Alec Leamas is with the British intelligence service nicknamed the Circus and runs their operations in West Berlin.
This was a book that completely changed the way I view spy novels.
surely every teenage boy's wet dream, but not what tends to be my cup of tea.Fleming, like most writers of spy novels, caters exclusively for the straight male reader.
His books were never intended to be read by women because in real life women don't fall back with their legs in the air for every guy in a tux who says "shaken, not stirred".
John le Carre is a genius, an inventive and wonderful writer.
and I want more of John le Carre right now.
Le Carre’s style is quite recognizable.
Economical in words, rough, laconic.
Feelings of burnout, cynicism and hopelessness.
Atmosphere of a constant threat and fatigue, melancholic gray London, claustrophobic East Berlin.
Everything written in harsh almost impersonal prose what only deepens the feeling of coldness in human relations.
The Spy Who Came In from the Cold  takes place in the time of cold war and we’re following the actions of Alec Leamas, a British agent who having lose his best spy behind the Iron Curtain returns to East Berlin with last job.
Prepare yourself that sometimes there is no escape from the cold.
In the last two years I started watching more spy movies/tv-series and also read a spy-thriller by Daniel Silva.
I saw two movies based on Le Carré's books (Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy and A most Wanted Man) which I enjoyed.
As a result, I was looking forward to reading one Le Carré book.This is a different kind of spy novel, a smart one with a brilliant plot and some exciting twists.
The characters have personality and the line between good and evil is not as clear as in other spy thrillers.
When his latest book, A Legacy of Spies, was released and got positive reviews, I decided to go back and catch up on the George Smiley series.Smiley plays a minor role in The Spy Who Came in from the Cold, but it doesn't matter because Alec Leamas is such a compelling character.
I had seen the movie version starring Richard Burton, but I enjoyed the book more because it got deeper into the mindset of Leamas.
They need him for the safety of ordinary, crummy people like you and me." "A man who lives apart, not to others but alone, is exposed to obvious psychological dangers.
The story, to give you some idea of what I mean, can be best summed up like this: Leamas is a British spy in the 50's dealing with the Soviets.
His job: get fired from the service, fall into disgrace, get recruited by Soviets, double-cross them and take out a former British agent who's working for Berlin now.
(if you've seen The Departed you can kinda guess how it goes) Then there's a trial, which is weird, because I kinda thought the whole purpose of being a spy was the ability to work outside the confines of the law, but whatever.
Afraid that he is heading for a desk job, or worse, he is asked to undertake one more mission – the fake defection of a senior British agent to frame an East German operative; Hans-Dieter Mundt, who escaped in “Call of the Dead,” the first George Smiley novel.
Slowly, the trap is set and we follow Leamas from London, back across the curtain into East Germany.Although this is listed as one of the Smiley series, George Smiley appears only briefly in this novel.
These are great spy novels.
The intricacies of spy networks and secret government agencies are spread over these pages like caviar and go down like a perfectly aged wine.
Shit damn, this is sweet stuff!Now, before you get all amped up, John le Carré does not write James Bond stuff.
It's all more realistic, when it comes down to it.In The Spy Who Came In from the Cold a pissed off agent, who lost his network of spies to a crafty and conniving bastard of a super agent, is sent out into the field again as a plant to ferret out the bad guy.
Another highly recommended novel from John le Carré!
Instead, Alec Leamas is a middle-aged alcoholic on the verge of retirement from the spy game; burned out, embittered, and about to be cashiered for a string of failures while running England's spy network in Cold War Berlin.
He's recruited for one final mission: to target the dangerous East German spymaster who's been responsible for the deaths of so many Western agents.
The ending is a bitter and amoral one as Leamas discovers what he already knew, that there may be good guys and bad guys in the Cold War, but everyone is gray in the dark.This was a great spy story.
Thrillers come in different packages.
Action thrillers are usually tricked out in bright colors with fancy bows and all manner of bedazzling allure.
Dressed in more somber packaging are the cerebral thrillers.
It's been a good 40 years since I first read this book.
It did, and the story was just as compelling as ever.As in life, the blurred lines between the good guys and the bad guys are apt to give one pause.
'Intelligence work has one moral law - it is justified by results.' This book deserves to be read more than once.
It's that good.
I’m working my way through the wonderful world of John le Carré's magnificent George Smiley books, so far in quick succession.
After the slightly anomalous second book 'A Murder of Quality', which is a murder mystery set in a top English boys public school, I was pleased to be back in the more familiar world of Cold War spying and espionage.
However, to describe 'The Spy Who Came In from the Cold' as a George Smiley book is a bit misleading as he barely appears.
An incredible tale of distrust, fear, courage, integrity, and the enduring nature of human love. Truly a Masterpiece
A solid one-two punch in the gut. Top quality spy novel.
I have now finished my re-read, and I'm not sure if I'm happy or not that I didn't remember the ending. It's a thrilling story.The way the story is presented ... what is revealed, what is held back, and the sequence of revelation ... is so superb. Any writer can benefit by outlining the scenes.And of course there are the flawed characters, brilliant and stupid, compassionate and cold-hearted, none of them to be trusted, who populate all of le Carre's work.
Rating - 7.8/10(Good) - Slow Paced Infiltration I read the prequels before picking this novel up.
After reading this one, it felt like le Carre had done justice in portraying the life of a spy even though it was a slow paced.
I was not aware of Cold War in detail, but I got to learn about it from the real spy's perspective after reading this novel.
Other than that the novel is just great and it really shows why le Carre's career as a writer of spy novels was at a peak.
John le Carré is simply one of the best spy/thriller writers of all time.
He ruminates on the dispensability of human life in the business of intelligence.
Real intelligence work has much less to do with honor and patriotism than practicality and appearances.
The end always justifies the means and may very well have nothing to do with the national interest whatsoever.
The overwhelming majority of the work is dull and boring.
Just people trying to justify their work, to understand their actions and orders in light of some kind of meaningful moral framework.
Do the ends justify the means?This is a slowly evolving spy novel that by the end will make you question everything you thought you ever knew (only slightly hyperbolic).
This starts out somewhat slowly as we get to know Alec Leamas, our protagonist, and follow along as he seemingly is going to seed, and to drink, after a career ending series of events in West Berlin.
This first act is demoralizing to witness and it is difficult to ascertain any end-game.
This is my kind of spy novel, enticing and escapist, but not overly dramatic.
A literary 3-D chess game.
now that, my friend, is a cunning disguise.Us spies have gotten a lot of mileage out of this cold war business and obviously it's been quite good exercise too as we are constantly clambering over strategically placed walls whilst dodging the bad guys' henchmen.
There's a bottle of scotch in it for you if you correctly second guess the outcome and maybe even a promotion from Control.This book may self destruct (although probably only if you've got it as a Harper-Collins E-library book)Right, i'm off to kick James Bond in the bollocks.Leamus, out.
