https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144977.The_Tender_Bar
What's This Book About?From The Tender Bar by J.
People who read for plot, people who suck out the story like the cream filling in an Oreo, should stick to comic strips and soap operas.
Pulling this excerpt from page 335 of this 416 page book, I feel, allows me to use the author's own words to describe this excellent and engrossing reading experience.
It's a compelling, emotional memoir, filled with lots of individual stories, all contributing to the plot that is the author's life.
The book is dedicated to her.It's one of the best written memoirs I've ever read, and a highly entertaining journey.
Interestingly, the experience is similar to a night that starts pleasantly with a charming storyteller and a few drinks; at first it is enjoyable and the story is interesting, but as the storyteller continues drinking and becomes more and more verbose and self-absorbed, going on and on about people you do not know who are fascinating only to storyteller and no one else, your eyes start to glaze over and your mind wanders.
No revelations on how he found himself lying in the gutter in a puddle of vomit and urine, and told himself it was time to quit?) The deaths of Grandma and Grandpa in the same year, which precipitated the family fight over the estate--they died of ?This book needs a good editor and a rewrite.
Le note finali al testo fanno pensare che sia quella vera, segnata da un episodio cruciale: essere abbandonato dal padre quando era ancora in fasce.JR crescerà con la madre i nonni, gli zii e gli avventori del bar Dickens, un manipolo di filosofi alcolizzati che lo instraderanno sul sentiero del vizio dalla più tenera età.
Chissà se è come scrive Moehringer, a livello conscio i rifiuti e gli abbandoni ci segnano parecchio, l’accoglienza lavora sotto traccia, quella acquisita la diamo per scontata, ci arrabattiamo ad inseguire che ci sfugge quando abbiamo un porto sicuro dove rientrare.Ho scritto più volte della mia passione per le liste di libri nei libri«Cosa state leggendo adesso a scuola?» chiese Bill.
I'm a writer.
I'm not hard on other writers' work, unless they really disappoint me.
An occasional repeat of an expression, a dropped comma, a misused semicolon -- none of these bother me unless they stop the read cold, and only then, if I can't pick it up again.
I'm not a complete masochist, but I have noticed that most of the books in that pile come from big publishing houses and "blockbuster" writers with hugely successful series.
I have only once read an Indie Novel that I couldn't finish.
Indie Authors create and craft their stories outside of the editorial and sales pressures that mold much of what fills the Best Holiday Books lists.
Its an easy read.
He continues to show the people in his life addicted to alcohol, drugs, and gambling in a postive light - even when sometimes the outcome of such a life is horrible- he still holds them up on some kind of pedestal.I thought often while reading it - that he should have read more Charles Bukowski for a dose of what bar flies are really like - and maybe hung around some men his own age a bit more often instead of a bunch of old losers.
Yes, there were times you wanted to kick him in the seat of the pants, but it appears he finally found his own footing.My only quibble is that after a wonderfully rich telling of his childhood and early adulthood, there is a conspicuous ten-year gap as the story jumps abruptly from his first job as a journalist and what appears to be a downward slide towards alcoholism to the end of the book where he has clearly stopped drinking, has become a recognized journalist, and finally appears to have gained a healthy perspective on his past.The scenes in the bar and the many conversations, over many years, between Moehringer and the bar's zany, wonderful patrons were filled with laugh-out-loud hilarity, philosophical depth, fascinating bondings and break-ups, and unspoken rules and behaviors that engendered fierce loyalty and unexpected tenderness.
THE TENDER BAR is one of the first memoirs I read after jumping back on the reading band wagon in 2000. I loved this book and Moehringer's writing. Still have the hardcover on my shelf.
But at the end of the book, all I could think was, "Well, so what?" There was no climax, no plot twist, and Moehringer whined too much about insignificant things to make me ever care what happened to him.It was also troubling to me that he idolized the men at the bar -- a bunch of loud drunks with shady pasts and unclear futures -- while looking with disdain on everyone else.
It seemed that their influence did more harm than good on Moehringer, since it was only once he moved clear across the country and quit drinking that he could actually do something positive with his life.
I thought it was going to be about bar culture and the magical and redemptive qualities that can be found in your local bar/pub.
The love of his mother...how he wants to care for her....yadda yadda.
I found myself not caring after a while.
Which is a shame, really, because you get the feeling that Moehinger is a good guy with an interesting story to tell.
But I could not help but feel, when reading this, that I was watching one, long, maybe more seedy epidsode of The Wonder Years.
NYTimes notable book and bestseller for those of you who care.
As many stars as there are drops of beer in a pint glass. Some of the most beautiful writing ever.
Given a choice, the boy might even opt for corporal punishment over icy indifference.J.R. Moehringer captures the lives of many such boys in his poignant memoir, “The Tender Bar.” Moehringer’s radio personality dad was MIA so often, he came to think of his dad as “The Voice,” and kept a radio close in case his father happened to be on the air.
So Moehringer wandered into the nearby neighborhood bar – the “Tender Bar” - and found his surrogates, a wonderful collection of colorful, irreverent, hard-drinking, fast-talking philosophers who took him to the beach and taught him much of what he needed to learn.An interesting sidebar is that when tennis star Andre Agassi read this book, he knew Moehringer was the one to write his own life story.
JR grew up with an absent father and ended up with many "fathers", and one enormously strong and dedicated mother.
I, too, grew up with an absent father and an enormously strong and dedicated mother so I could relate to much of his emotional upheaval at times.
He dedicated his book to his mother - wouldn't it have been great to see that wonderful woman's picture?!
The real story here is sharing boldly and courageously what it is like to grow up fatherless.
JR speaks for all of us men who grew up without fathers and his medium is great storytelling.
While reading, I wrote this:Working on it. Mom's book club. Came in a box with Valentine's Day goodies, including:- A heart-shaped potholder- Cups with hearts on them- Candy hearts- A heart-shaped PEZ dispenser- Pink footie socks- 3 or maybe 4 V-Day cards, they keep turning up in odd places, like wedged into  The Tender Bar.- Pink rubber duckies with hearts on them- My camera battery chargerA good story. A bicentennial sofa. A little deliberate, but I'm still going.After reading, I write this:It got old fast.Rich girls, broken hearts, alcoholism, SNOOZE. My Mom's hairdresser didn't even like it.

The Tender Bar / Dulcele bar a lui Moehringer era una dintre cărțile acelea pe care îmi doream mereu să le citesc, dar o amânam pentru un moment tihnit, în care să pot s-o savurez așa cum credeam eu că se cuvenea.
Acum pot să spun cu convingere că The Tender Bar / Dulcele bar e o carte de memorii pe care mă bucur că am citit-o și pe care o recomand sincer.Citate preferate aici: http://mihaelaburuiana.com/cartisical...
That pub, frequented by men who of course like to drink beer, talk, fight, etc., is where the young J.R. gets to bond with men who provided him the father figure as his father is just a voice in the radio.The book is an easy read.
However, after the he graduated from Yale, the narration practically became uninteresting (or maybe I could not relate to men who frequent pubs as I am not fond of drinking).
Maybe Moehringer knew it as he wrote a long Epilogue telling the story of what was the impact of the Sept 11 attack to him, his mother (to whom the book is dedicated) and people in Manhasset.
I found this book by reading Andre Aggasi's memoir, "Open", in which he describes how taken he was by "The Tender Bar" and how this led to his collaboration with J.R. Moehringer.
The book is a wonderful memoir of a tough childhood (J.R. Moehringer grew up without a father in his life) of a boy with some very obvious intellectual gifts.
The chapters in which Moehringer describes his first romances, first with a girl named Lana and then with his real heartbreak, Sydney, are some of the best writing on teenage lust and falling in love that I have encountered.
The book is basically about his coming of age and most of it takes place at a local pub on Long Island where his uncle was a bartender.
The missing star is mainly a pet peeve I have about the epilogue, which I recommend you skip.
This was recommended to me as well, but curiosity got the better of me.
The rest of the book took place in the 80s.
I appreciate that in a book about his life, an author may pick and choose what is important to highlight, but I disagree with the choice to use this particular blurb in his epilogue.
Empecé con muchas ganas, ya en las primeras páginas prometía, peeero según iba leyendo me desinflaba.
Puede que no haya sido el mejor momento para esta lectura o que llevaba muchas expectativas y no ha sido lo que esperaba...
el caso es que, sí, está bien escrito, te engancha al revival que hace el autor de su vida y entretiene, pero sin más.
Las referencias a grandes clásicos de la Literatura y a la música, otra cosa no, pero me he preparado una Banda Sonora brutal, gracias a este señor.
La evolución de un niño y su paso de la infancia a la edad adulta. Las relaciones familiares en especial con su madre, su referente. En todo ello está el bar, como un Lugar ritual donde el protagonista va desvelando su vida.Aunque me ha gustado, la trama me ha parecido un poco irregular, no ha conseguido engancharme del todo,y a ratos se me ha hecho largo. Sin embargo la prosa Es muy buena y la historia estar real y cotidiana como la vida misma.
Onvan : The Tender Bar - Nevisande : J.R. Moehringer - ISBN : 786888768 - ISBN13 : 9780786888764 - Dar 432 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 2005
i read in a separate review that the most interesting thing about the author is the people he knows - and it's true, the characters in this book are very colorful and tend to overshadow moehringer's self-absorbed drama.
another reason to enjoy the book was the pure feel-good-ness of the story: the author faces obstacles (daddy issues, unrequited love, alcoholism, bad life choices in general), he overcomes them, and you can't help but find yourself cheering for him.
This book was required reading for a memoir class that I audited last year.
I must confess, I’m not a fan of memoirs that are soaked in booz, but I did my usual quick read through to get the story and found that, though appalled at times, I did enjoy the story and cared very much for J R and his mother.
I think of the following passage every time I witness men acting badly."Why do those men act so silly?" I asked my mother.
"They're just-happy." "About what?" She looked at the men, thinking.
It was a lively discussion and all are set on reading Sutton soon.
5 stars! My friend Beth wanted me to read this for ages! I still have tears in my eyes at the poignancy of this memoir. I don't think I can write a review of The Tender Bar. I just really liked it and am happy I read it and would tell others to read it too. It is very sad though. It's amazing how well he wrote, using such great descriptive words that you really could almost feel you were right there with him experiencing it all.I'd recommend it!
This is when Moehringer describes his childhood in a dysfunctional broken-down home in Long Island and his search on the radio air waves for his missing father's voice.
Unfortunately, there was also a tremendous amount of alcohol, and it took Moehringer far too long to find how addicted he was to the bar.
He then flunks out of the New York Times' erstwhile training program, and stays in his dead-end job as a copy boy far too long.
By the end, his relationships with those in the bar don't deepen, they simply marinate.
"Am început să urlu la Jimbo:- Urăsc întrebarea asta, i-am spus. Urăsc când oamenii mă întreabă despre ce e o carte. Oamenii care citesc pentru intrigă, oamenii care înghit povestea ca pe umplutura dintr-un biscuit Oreo ar trebui să rămână la benzi desenate și telenovele. Despre ce e? Orice carte care valorează cât negru sub unghie e despre emoții, și dragoste, și moarte, și durere. E despre cuvinte. Despre om față în față cu viața. Da?"
If part of that heritage is absent (i.e., if one parent is missing) then the work of finding one’s place is made exponentially more difficult.
Mr. Moehringer gives voice to the common journey of finding one’s place, on one’s terms, while learning to deal with those things that are missing from one’s personal “need’s list.”J.
Wherever he went - Arizona (where his mother relocated), Yale (where he went to college), The New York Times (where he worked for four years as a copy boy) - his heart remained at home and to which he immediately returned - this tavern.
When the radio presence mysteriously disappeared, he inadvertently stumbled upon a host of other mentors in the bar on the corner in his village.Two themes guided the young boy: growing up to take care of his mother, and getting into Yale.
His efforts to become a reporter (from copyboy) at the New York Times had me rooting for him, even as his path inevitably took him elsewhere to greater heights.Other influences, like the quirky managers of a bookstore in Arizona, added “voices” to the others when they encouraged him and lent him books that would ever after enrich his life.In the final pages of "The Tender Bar," J.
At some point the bar itself became my father, its dozens of men melding me into one enormous male eye looking over my shoulder, providing that needed alternative to my mother, that Y chromosome to her X".--JR Moehringer, pg.
JR Moehringer wrote a book that not only gives tribute to 'the bar that raised him' but to the mother that sacrificed much of her own life for the sake of her son's.
Wherein I once thought that people who went to a bar every day were hard core alcoholics, I now stand corrected for my harsh judgements.
Aladdin, aka Publicans, provides" or "maybe Publicans was Steve's Great American Novel and he didn't see the point of someone writing another novel about it" has reason to be circumspect in my world.The Tender Bar is very well written, but as I read the book I kept saying to myself 'when is he going to get to the point?' Then I realized there is really no point it is just a retrospective of J.R.'s life.
To me—growing up on Long Island, going to Princeton and hanging around a bar isn't enough of a life worth writing about and certainly not reading about.
