https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1195394.Waterless_Mountain
The style of writing reflects the time, as it’s very slow-paced and nothing at all like the fast moving, action packed chapter books and MG novels of today.
I liked Younger Brother’s way of looking at the world, of his respect for all nature, of his desire to communicate with it, but I felt like the rest of the characters were very two dimensional and rather stereotypical.Supposedly the view on Navajo culture presented in this book is pretty accurate – according to some white scholars in the 1930s.
It wasn't in your face, but that is almost worse because then people think that they are actually getting a true picture.
He could feel power shining through the blue eyes, and tingling in the fingers that touched his head." When Younger Brother experiences flight in an airplane he says, "Now I know that white men are mightier than Navahos.
191 Is that really how they would represent themselves?And at Christmas when the children come to the trading post - p.
When a white woman is sad, the Navajo collect money and give it to her to help her child pay to come home.
Waterless Mountain follows Younger Brother, the middle of three children in a Navajo family — a boy who got to be 8 years old without ever having seen a white man or a chair — as he grows into adulthood.
Laura Adams Armer’s book serves as a window into a world that existed for centuries in the American Southwest, examining the everyday life of a Navajo family of the time, as well as their cultural folkways and religion.
The book has not aged well for children; however, adults will delight in immersing themselves in the world of the Navajo people from long ago.
It's short, it's simple: you can get through it." So I did.This book is organized in short stories from the life of Younger Brother, a Navaho Indian boy.
Each chapter stands on its own, sharing day-to-day glimpses into the life of the Navaho, sprinkled liberally with folklore and origin myths.
Each vignette is written in a straightforward manner, with very little to tie each chapter to the last except that they are are told sequentially.This book is charming and clearly written for children...
Even now, there is still merit to be found between the covers of this book for those seeking an escape into the uncomplicated innocence of the Native American old west.
Younger Brother learns from his wise uncle, who is himself a medicine man for their tribe, and who teaches him simple and complex songs and stories of the Navaho traditions.
The only ostensible conflict in the book is with another young Navaho boy who tries to steal from both Younger Brother and the trading post.
I worried that the Big Man would become an even greater antagonist to Younger Brother, but he stays a true friend to the boy and his tribe.
I recommend having old or modern technology handy to record thoughts like this:"Most all people looked upward when they sang.
If you're reading the Newbery Winners through from the beginning, not even a decade in you've already visited South America in Tales From SIlver Lands, China in Shen of the Sea, India in Gay Neck, Poland in Trumpeter of Krakow, Japan in The Cat Who Went to Heaven and now, in The Waterless Mountain, you're visiting the Navaho tribes in the Western U.S. Despite, the racism in many of the novels, it does seem like the librarians on the committees in the 20's and the 30's were being proactive about exposing children to new cultures.
While I appreciate the early Newbery committees making an effort to expose kids to new cultures, I wish that a lot of the books weren't so gosh-darned awful.
You won't get swashbuckling adventure with this book, but you do get a relaxing read that follows a thoughtful young Navajo boy across a few years and reveals to you the backstory of Navajo beliefs and cultural heritage as he learns and tells the stories of his people.
You get glimpses of early-20th century interaction between back-country Navajos and Euro-Americans, as well as the disjoint felt by the Navajos when thrust into city culture.
The best thing about this book is entering their world and seeing it, learning about it, enjoying it for its own pace and intrinsic worth, and never feeling like it's being weighed against another cultural paradigm.
And, for me, not so much in a "pleasant journey" kind of way like Criss Cross or Walk Two Moons or even The Cat Who Went to Heaven.
Much bigger problem: The book, while in some ways sensitive to Navajo culture, really is fawning in its love of white culture.
There's a brief mention of some of the oppression of the Navajo in the past but it's skipped past quickly and there's no sense that white people in the book's present (early 1930s) are anything less than amazing.
So not my favorite, though I do always like glimpses of other cultures.
Suddenly she remembered and before she knew what was happening, a big tear rolled down her cheek.An old Navaho man noticed that she was crying and said to her:"Little Sister, you cry because your child is away.
When our children go away to school, the mothers cry also."The white lady listened in wonder as the old man turned to his people in the store and spoke to them."My grandchildren, our white sister is sad.
We will all give money to have her child brought back."Every Navaho gave something and the old man handed the collection to the white lady.
I have always had an interest in Native American history and storytelling and I felt that this book helped give me an insider view of how the Navajo lived.
At times I thought the book was a little bland and slow, but overall I enjoyed the stories and tales about Younger Brother's life.
I liked how this book followed a younger child because I feel often times Native American stories are written from the perspective of a young adult, someone in their teens or early twenties.
I felt that having the character be younger, I could see a new perspective of life in the Navajo community.
Being able to picture a story unfold is especially helpful for readers who often find themselves struggling to keep up with the plot.
In terms of accuracy, the depiction of Native American culture in this novel seemed to be very stereotypical which, is not especially surprising for a book written by a white woman in the early 1930’s.
Although the author seems to have a clear interest in and appreciation of Native American culture, the stories within this book do not seem as impactful or through as they could have been if written by someone within the culture itself.
I went into this book with fairly high hopes after reading Winter in the Blood (another book focused on Native American culture).
I was disappointed in Winter in the Blood's negative portrayal of Native Americans and was happy to read that Armer described their culture and character in a more positive light.
Although the Native American customs were hard for me to follow, I think her use of imagery in describing them did them justice.
This can lead to a classroom discussion about why and how our biases and prejudices change from when we were children.
The story also depicts the natives, with their arguably odd rituals and beliefs, as nothing but happy and generous.
The themes of family and belief are the two most important in this story.
His sense of purpose and adventure are able to connect with those of adolescent readers who will read this.
This connection will cause them to care about what happens to younger brother in the story, to pay more attention to what happens to him (the plot) and the many symbols used and depicted throughout the story (symbolism).
Whereas I often felt that Winter in the Blood engaged with the stereotypes or negative images of Native American culture, Waterless Mountain presented more of the cultural beauty and the ways the people around them have taken advantage of that culture.
I felt that some of the signs, omens, or rituals could have been presented in a more accessible way to the readers so that they could more fully engage in the culture.This book could be useful in helping students understand the relevance of studying American actions and discrimination against the native tribes in the last few centuries.
The first chunk of this book was really painful to get through. It read like summaries of legends instead of the legends themselves. It was just a lot of thumbnail descriptions of things. At one point, I accidentally read a chapter twice without realizing it.After Younger Brother starts his journey to the sea, the book gets more interesting.
A beautiful story of an unrushed childhood. A lovely reminder to mothers to allow their children to grow up to be what they are supposed to be. Also a reminder that quietness, alone time, and responsibility are important at all stages of development. I loved how “Grandfather “ was so respectful and consequently respected. I only wish there really was such a man.
I like that the hot topic issue was not based on a clash between Native Americans and white settlers or the white man but rather it was more centered around Native American life.
Armer acknowledges such social issues, but her primary purpose was to focus on Navajo culture.
She shows Younger Brother and his people pursing a traditional way of life as the twentieth century swirls around them.
I thought it was interesting how this tribe was working so hard to preserve their culture in the modern era.
Waterless Mountain is a sweet and genuine book that creates a sense of innocence, discovery, and curiosity of the world around the main character of Younger Brother, a young Navajo boy who aspires to become a Medicine Man like Uncle.
Overall, this novel is an easy read and filled with wonderful imagery that helps the reader create an image in his or her mind, has characters that are very delightful, and a main character that takes you on his innocent journey to learning about his vocation of being a Medicine Man.
I also enjoyed the way in which each relationship that he formed within the book was meaningful; each character had an important role and helped Younger Brother to grow more as a medicine man and as a person.
I found Younger Brother's relationship with the Big Man endearing; when Big Man entered the story, I anticipated him to be a negative character who would perhaps exploit the family, but he was ultimately a source of protection and nourishment for them, which gave me a sense of relief.
I enjoyed the positive relationship that the Native Americans had with the Pelicanos, and the characters which Armer featured.
It is also one of the few Newbery books from these two decades that I had no memory of ever having read or had read to me.It is the story of Younger Brother who is following the path of a medicine man of his people.
On the whole, however, the book is remarkable for its time for the respectful manner in which Navajo people and their traditional worldview are treated.
It might have some potential as a read-aloud but mostly I think it's value, in 1932 as well as today, is for its distinction in presenting a respectful account of Navajo life and worldview in the early twentieth century.
The book is a coming of age story about Younger Brother, a young man who is part of the Navajo tribe, growing up and discovering himself, what he wants in life, and the world around him.
In particular, the novel goes into detail about the journey one might take as a medicine man and various ceremonies and rituals that happen within the Navajo tribe.
There is also a smaller theme throughout the book that identifies the different cultures of the Navajo tribe and the changing world around them.
Laura Adams Armer does a very well job to thoughtfully take you through the journey of an Indian boy, younger brother, as he becomes a medicine man.
Younger brother’s journey through traditional Indian ceremonies to become a medicine man is a rite of passage as he travels to find the Turquoise woman.
I can definitely see this in a social studies setting where students could relate to personal experiences to strengthen their knowledge on Navajo life and traditional ceremonies.
I would recommend this to any social studies teachers or other content teachers that need something to relate to the traditional Navajo life.
Waterless Mountain is a great book that portrays the spirituality and self-intelligence of the Navaho Tribe.
I enjoyed reading about Younger Brother’s relationship with nature and how he grew throughout the story.
At first, Younger Brother was boy who collected treasures and stored them in a cave that no one else knew about.
As the story progressed, Younger Brother grew closer to the animals and settings around him.
It was his goal to venture to the Pacific Ocean, meet the Turquoise Woman, and learn about the sacred stories of her home.
When he returned home, Uncle knew Younger Brother’s true calling.
The story is based on the growing up of Younger Brother coming to life as a medicine man to his people.
What I really appreciated about this story was the great insight into Navajo culture.
Throughout the book Younger Brother enchants the readers with how Navajo beliefs and customs are connected to the world.
I really enjoyed reading about the relationship between "grandfather" and Younger Brother.
It is well written tying together the Navajo beliefs into great coming of age story.
There are a number of connections students could make to the historical significance in the book.
“Waterless Mountain” tells the story of a young Navajo boy’s journey to become a medicine man.
Younger Brother goes on several journeys as he grows up and interacts in many ways with the American culture.
As Younger Brother grows up, he continues to learn stories, chants, and songs that a medicine man should know and seeks to grow up and find where he belongs in his tribe.
The novel, “Waterless Mountain” would be of great use in a social studies classroom to examine Native American culture.
Along his journey, Younger Brother recalls Navajo stories and legends, as well as learns new stories from Uncle.
To its benefit, Waterless Mountain is separated into short stories, which allows for the reader to easily take the many breaks she will need before completing the book.
I would recommend that those seeking to use Waterless Mountain in the classroom base the readings off short stories and lessons rather than having students read the entire book.
While the language and sentence structure are easily understandable at the middle school level, those students may lack the maturity (or subject interest) to maintain attention.
This novel almost felt more like mini stories that gave insight to how a Navajo individual adjusted to the white man in the 1930’s.
“Waterless Mountain” is about a boy we know as younger brother, and his journey to become a medicine man like his uncle.
Eventually, they do go their separate ways but younger brother is able to hold on to his cultural background while keeping an open mind to the white man’s technologies.
Adams has a way of allowing the reading to feel connected to the Navajo stories which makes it easier for someone to relate to the characters point of view in trying to achieve his goal of becoming a medicine man.
Waterless Mountain by Laura Adams Armer is a wonderful little book that gives a glimpse of Navajo culture.
The book follows the journeys of Younger Brother, a young Navajo learning the ways of his culture, specifically learning how to be a medicine man.
Rather than distracting from the main storyline, these episodes enrich the readers understanding of the Navajo customs and Younger Brother’s motivation.
Perhaps more importantly though, the book tells a coming-of-age story that gives young readers a point of access.
Like so many other similar stories, adolescents can find something to compare to their own experiences with the journey from youth to young adulthood found in Waterless Mountain.
I would recommend Waterless Mountain to anyone who wants to gain a better understanding of Native American culture.
The novel centers around the life of Younger Brother, a boy who is destined to become a medicine man of the Navajo tribe.
One message of the author, here, seems to be that white culture does not necessarily have to have a negative impact on the Native Americans, but they can benefit each other.
This is most evident by the fact that Old Man seems to have just as large of an impact on Younger Brother as Uncle, the tribe’s medicine man.
If you are seeking a beautiful read that tells different stories of Navajo culture, then this book may be for you.
While at times I found myself wondering what the point of the novel was, I still enjoyed the way it was written and the story of Younger Brother.
While most of the books I typically read are filled to the brim with constant twists and turns in the plot, it was nice to sit down to a calm read and simply “stop and smell the roses.” As a teacher, I would love to integrate a novel like this into my classroom to illustrate Native American culture.
