https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/199638.Oral_History
This is a story about five generations of the Cantrell family.
Southern life in the mountains of Appalachia is the book's story.
I was terribly impressed by the author’s ability to so cleverly intertwine the personal stories of five generations of a family.
Without a hitch, all the details fit.The story progresses from one narrator to another as the years pass.
Jennifer and her mother’s life story are told too quickly, by a family member who does not really seem to care.
The persons telling the different portions of the story are well matched to the six narrators of the audiobook.
Smith never tells more than she should and leaves it up to the reader to decide what is "fact" and what is myth in this fictional family.The story passes from person to person as the years roll by, but the events are never told by those living them.
But I can tell you exactly which road the Cantrells would have lived on in my little community--where that dark streak is found.I liked seeing how the mountain people change as the years go by.
The book feels a bit like a love offering to a changing way of life.The framework of the novel is built around a great-granddaughter who grew up in "town" coming back in search of her mother's family's oral history.
I wanted so much to love this book since it was a recommendation from a friend whose literary taste seems to be in synch with mine. I like the beginning stories. I liked Almarine and Pricey Jane. The book did feel like an oral history. But along the way I lost the need to finish. When that happens, I know the rest will be difficult to stay with, and it was.
I'm slower to the game than many of my colleagues and friends because this is the first Lee Smith book I've read and if you are literate and live in Southwest Virginia, you had better have read Lee Smith.
I grew up in the hills about a mile away from the nearest "hard top" road but I was educated and I didn't have a dialect like that which was depicted in this book.
However, this story/the stories of these people are like everyone around me who grew up here.
This 1983 meandering series of stories about 4 generations or so of an Appalachian family certainly reads easily.
Perhaps I have read too many Lee Smiths in too short a time -- I am getting a little weary of the endless shifting to a different character.OK, in real life we never know any person really very well, we only see one side of them, but somehow in fiction I yearn for a deeper look at just a few characters.I'm not sure what I will retain, if anything, of these stories.Smith does have ways to make scenes and people come alive - you feel the cold wind, hear the thunder, sense the fear...An undercurrent in this book is how mistaken others are about what a person [or family:] is really like.
It follows the Cantrell family and covers among others: a man returning from the Civil War without a leg, a witch, a bootlegger, a coal miner, and an Amway distributor.I thought there were some aspects to the book that I wished Smith had done differently.
There are some coincidences in the book that bothered me.
I was also bothered by Smith's tendency to step away from some of the most critical parts of the book.
I marveled in the primitive methods of healing they used with apparent success.One of Lee Smith's goals was to capture the lives of a culture that is disappearing.
Lovely book. Think Smith's "Fair and Tender Ladies," mixed with Catherine Marshall's "Christie." The changing voices were jarring at first, but I have to admire her ability to actually speak in different characters' voices. I could really believe all these characters were telling their own stories. (She does the same thing so well in "The Christmas Letters.") It is a sad story, but beautifully told--full of "if onlies--!". (So much in "Histories" is reminiscent of my early days (1970s) in the north Georgia mountains--language, stories, cadence, customs. Things had not changed much in the intervening years!!)
I got the sense that I was watching a television series, only every time Lee switches characters, it's like missing a few episodes.
You still know what is going on, but it's like you missed something.
It was very easy to "get into" this book, I read it in two days, but it was still not one of my favorites.
Jennifer is a high school student who is gathering the oral histories of her family tree.
My own family is not conservative, but I know nothing about my mother's sex life, not to mention my grandmother's or great-grandmother's.
Originally read more than 20 years ago as a BYU student and I can tell its staying power because it's one of the rare, rare, rare books I've actually held on to (ask my book club friends: I'm so cheap, I NEVER buy the book of the month).
I stumbled on it in my basement last week, plopped right down and read it start to finish.
Wacky, upsetting, and a totally different America than one I could ever imagine, something in this book woke up the latent family historian in me.
Don't worry, I'm sure it'll go back to sleep again soon.
Once again: I love characterization. Lee Smith tells the story of generations of an Appalachian Mountain family in first person, but as many people. You have the old Granny at first with her traditional way of speaking, a young school teacher from Richmond with his pretentious language, all the way up to a modern-day hill-billy country diction. It's incredible how the author changed her voice throughout the novel to match her characters. I loved the book!
Enjoyable to read, but an unsatisfying conclusion.
The structure of the novel was good, with an opening and closing chapter set in the present, and the intervening chapters telling the story.
But the author seemed not to know what to do in the last chapter.
The story is basically a classical tragedy, with choices made early on reverberating through the decades with bad consequences over and over.
I enjoyed the settings of rural Appalachia through the decades of the 20th century.
You feel for these characters and this family, and Smith puts you to thinking about progress and tradition, also about the watering down of lineage and the tragedy of ignorance.
Perhaps not so coincidentally this was also about the time in the book that I stopped caring for the characters.
It might have to do with the amount of time Smith spent on the later characters as well; she herself didn't have as much to say about them so it was hard to care as much.
Smith’s love, respect, criticisms, and fears for and about the mountains where she places her stories are all apparent in each and every line.So this most recent book, Oral History, falls right in line with the kind of depth and authenticity I’ve come to expect from Smith.
She creates characters stunted by the stingy light allowed them in the shadows of their mountain homes, people who are just beginning to suspect life might have more to offer, more than they might really want, away from their dear hollows.My only qualm: Oh my God, it’s a dirty book.
This book follows a family in a remote corner of Appalachia over the course of four generations.
Once complaint is that to capture the essence of early Appalachia, the author uses a lot of phonetic spellings that makes reading somewhat sluggish.
I would highly recommend the first half of this book (which includes narration both by family members and an outsider "city" man whose narration adds an interesting perspective) and then suggest stopping after the first two generations (Almarine through his daughter Dory).
I would honestly rank this book between three and four.
In one long section, the narration was delivered by a young teacher from Richmond, and the language was a little precious -- to show a contrast in education and world view, I am sure, but I didn't enjoy that portion of the book as much.
Reading it is an immersive experience; you'll feel like you are sitting on the porch listening to the people tell their stories, like the young woman who has come to the holler to learn about her mother's family.
While Lee Smith has become a favorite writer, I have to say this book was not.
Told in various voices over a hundred or so year span of life in Western Virginia, each time the narrator changed it felt like a disruption...a jarring of the story that took a momentary readjustment on my part which was quite off-putting.Too, the beginning and ending of the novel seemed fragmentary...pieces and bits tacked on to introduce Jennifer yet never quite managing to leave the reader with an understanding of this young girl other than her numerical standing in the Cantrell family.However, my momentary discontent with 'Oral History' does not affect my admiration for Ms. Smith's work.
'Fair and Tender Ladies' as well as 'On Agate Hill' were brilliant, in MHO, and I am eagerly anticipating the reading of the next book on my nightstand, 'The Devil's Dream.'
This was my first Lee Smith novel, and I will definitely be reading more.
She apparently writes mostly regional fiction about the Appalachians in general and far western Virginia in particular.
In this novel, several generations of the Cantrell family take turns narrating their family history while living it.
The oral history functioned well as a narrative device, allowing for dialect and the changes in dialect brought by the onset of civilization.
A wonderful read for those with roots, ties, or an interest in this region.
I had to read this book for a 300-level English class at my university and I wasn't really expecting to enjoy it.
I liked most of the characters and enjoy the sense of change in the region that you get as the book progresses.
This might be the Appalachian in me, but especially powerful is the sense of cultural homogenization you get as the modern world creeps in on Appalachia and changes the things that make the people in the region unique.
If you are from the Appalachian region, like me, you will probably like this book.
I enjoyed this book, but I could have done without the bookend chapters that gave the context of a college student's oral history project. I would have preferred to have those omitted and allow the stories to grow organically without the artifice of the given context.The stories, which are the "oral histories," can and do stand on their own.
This is my favorite book, bar none. I wish I could say I found it on my own while browsing through a dusty bookstore. Instead it was assigned. But that's ok, I am just happy to have found it at all. Hypnotic. Chilling. Scenic. Sad. Scary. Real and Imaginary. You will love it or I will ... disown you.
This book was unexpected, but sooo enjoyable. The novel is written in the style of an oral history, and it reminded me so much of listening to my grandparents tell stories about family/friends. I was so enraptured by the style that I completely fell into the magic of the family curse. Very enjoyable! (Be advised, though, there are a couple of scandalous scenes)
Read carefully, or you will miss the point. This Smith classic is one of the most beautiful and stark examples of Appalachian stereotyping put to the test. Every character counts in this story. So pay attention...
This story takes place in the mountains of Virginia, where my life story bones lie. It was close to my heart to read. Lee Smith is a wonderful writer! But I love this book because of the familiarity of it -- it was like reading my journal or my grandmother's journal. Sigh . . .
Brilliantly done story that follows the genealogy of one Appalachian family so evocatively, using different voices and narrators from each period of time, taking the child of one story into the adult of the next.
I can't say enough good things about Lee Smith, but since she is so very local to Virginia and North Carolina it's hard to find her outside of the area. Writing in the redneck dialect is dicey, something that could go incredibly badly, and she pulls it off oh so very well.
I loved this book. I must say that there is a problem with the framing of this book. Smith had to explain herself in the back of the book...The story (other than the framing) was great. I got into it. I love the mythological aspects of it as well.
I didn't like this book nearly as much as Fair and Tender Ladies. I was a little disappointed that Lee Smith felt the need to tie everything up so neatly at the end. I think she could have done without the last chapter completely. Other than that, I did enjoy this book.
Oral History. It is what it says. Members of a family telling their stories. Delightfully told. Perfectly pitched. Not sure if there's a GR book group that focuses on reading various American regions. If so this would be an excellent pick for the Appalachian holler.
this book is so beautifully written, it's like a movie where the cinematography is so gorgeous you want to rewind and watch certain parts again - i kept re-reading certain sentences. one of my all time favorite books.
This is a book for people who love descriptive language, meandering scenery, and colloquialism.
We hear the voices of their different neighbors/friends of the family, we learn of their unique history that in a word is tragic.
To top it off the family's reputation for being cursed has its origins in a spurned, definitely crazy neighbor rose.If nothing else this story is intriguing and it makes you want to read to the end JUST to figure out how the writer will bring it all together.
