https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6751.Consider_the_Lobster_and_Other_Essays
They are:  Big Red Son: a report on the 1998 Adult Video News awards (the Oscars of porn) in Las Vegas.Consider the Lobster: a report on a visit to the annual Maine Lobster Festival (for Gourmet magazine).Host: a report on conservative talk radio, based on extensive interviews conducted with John Ziegler, host of “Live and Local” on Southern California’s KFI.Up Simba: an account of seven days on the campaign trail with John McCain in his 2000 presidential bid (for Rolling Stone).Authority and American Usage: a review of Bryan Garner’s  “A Dictionary of Modern American Usage” , which serves as a springboard for a terrific exegesis of usage questions and controversies.Here’s what I like about David Foster Wallace’s writing: I know of nobody else who writes as thoughtfully and intelligently.
It does not seem to be put together following any particular collective logic, but all the essays seem to be good advertisements to DFW’s intuitively imaginative, explorative and curious writing method.
The first extremely explicit essay on an inside look into the Porn industry turned this reviewer off slightly (being the prude that I am) but from then on it was increasingly easy to figure why so many of my most respected friends have such an intellectual crush on DFW.
It was a source of constant amazement to observe how DFW uses a review (or any given essay) to explore every pet topic imaginable.
Per lui noi siamo fondamentali, non si prende mai sul serio ma prende noi lettori dannatamente sul serio.Forse se continua a parlarci, a interessarsi a noi, prima o poi ci illumina del suo immenso, ci rende un po' più intelligenti colti ossessivi maniacali ironici divertenti brillanti...In questo libro c’è anche un capitolo dedicato alla tennista Tracy Austin intitolato “Come Tracy Austin mi ha spezzato il cuore”.Mi piace il suo coraggio, il suo non nascondersi, non tirarsi indietro, il suo mettersi in gioco e in discussione, il suo spaccare il capello in 44, il suo trasformare sabbia in oro...Un'altra cosa che mi ha colpito è che con DFW ho messo da parte la matita: o sottolineavo e chiosavo tutto, o nulla, come ho subito capito che era meglio fare.Oh, sì, certo, le note e le note dentro le note sono una meraviglia, parte integrante del testo, niente marginalità – e gli acronimi sono un piacere distillato, la prefazione che lui definisce “facoltativa” è invece esilarante e mette su una gran voglia di sapere il resto, di più, di più, sempre di più, oltre ...Considera l’aragosta: il racconto della Fiera dell’astice del Maine.
Here is the upshot, although Wallace is a fan,Toward the End of Time concerns an extremely erudite, successful, narcissistic, and sex-obsessed retired guy who's keeping a one-year journal in which he explores the apocalyptic prospect of his own death.Toward the End of Time is also, of the let's say two dozen Updike books I've read, far and away the worst, a novel so clunky and self-indulgent that it's hard to believe the author let it be published in this kind of shape.3.
Outstanding.
The closest one can get to triple penetration in essay form.Each one is a stunner, from the grotesquerie of the Adult Video Awards in ‘Big Red Son,’ the magniloquent ass-handing of John Updike, the sublime pedantry of the modern classic ‘Authority and American Usage,’ the obsessive campaign chronicling of ‘Up, Simba,’ to the staggeringly researched meta-bubbling John Ziegler profile ‘Host.’All the essays succeed at tying razor-sharp exegeses of American culture to a holy clarity of insight, showing how acutely attuned to the nuances of the human mind Mr. Wallace was.
A reading inspired by Ian, who is presently traipsing across Portugal (whatever, I'm not jealous), because, Lord Byron, I presume.
It's unclear at this time if I'll read this in one sitting or at random, notwithstanding, my intent is to review each essay as a standalone.
Big Red SonBig Red Son is the first of nine essays.
Wallace is a master word and world-builder, creating vivid pictures, showing the reader, seemingly and without thought, the world far removed from everyday life while, conversely, presenting society's addiction (if the sales numbers are to be believed) to porn.
At the end of Big Red Son, it becomes apparent why some men might consider (and have inflicted) auto-castration.
This is an interesting collection of unrelated essays by the late David Foster Wallace. The funniest one for me was the title essay. No one could match him for wit and manipulation of language as this book attests. There are some essays though which are nearly unreadable like the one about a dictionary. Once you have read Infinite Jest and Pale King and wish to read a bit of his non-fiction, this one or Something Supposedly Fun that I'll Never Try Again would be a nice place to start.
Do you know that feeling of falling in love so hard and so fast that your head spins?
That feeling that your sweetie is AMAZING, PERFECT, and you have no idea how you ever lived without them?
Sorry about your luck.The first DFW book I read was A Supposedly Fun Thing I'll Never Do Again and I was instantly smitten.
I feel like I have just busted him mid-nose pick.
so neener neener!)(I'M SO SORRY, DFW!!!!!!)Out of all these essays, I LOVED "Big Red Son" and "Consider the Lobster".
What a trip! DFW's fractured narrative feels more like a genuine conversation than anything else. The essays are insightful and thought provoking; but I feel they are aimed mostly at an American audience. I loved DFW's writing, especially the last piece where endnotes were boxed-in and merged with the body of essay itself; but asides from a chapter or two, a big bulk of the content was socio-political issues that hardly matter to a non-American.
Un saggio e sono poco usa a leggere saggi.Complicata cerebrale meravigliosa mente geniale di Wallace
(Ceci n'est pas une review, but I'm getting tired of just rating and adding status updates)Thought maybe this was worth 4.7666666666666665 stars, but what the hell, there isn't going to be any more, so....'Up, Simba' wrestles in my affections with the cruise ship essay, it's that good.
Big Red Son, Tracy Austin, lobsters, Dostoevsky, Kafka, 9/11, gutting Updike, all amazing....the _one_ thing I don't like is the Host essay, which seems a little long and (gasp) pointless, altho with a stunning conclusion.
It feels a little more scattershot and dark than 'Supposedly Fun,' but I still love it.
I'm rereading 'Up, Simba' right now to cushion my psyche from the horribleness of Shelley's love life.INFINITE JEST GROUP REREAD THIS SUMMER Y/Y?
There's a small theme running through some of these essays(1): People trying to bridge the gap between two different camps.
"Up, Simba" is an encomium to John McCain's ability to appeal to Young Voters (presumably of all political stripes(2).) Herein lies the major weakness of the book.
It's the more analytical "essay*" parts of the pieces that let me down.* Essay in the sense that Montaigne used the word--a "trial" of one's own opinion.(2) Partisanship, at least, is not emphasized when he discusses YV.(3) Armchair Psychoanalyzing On My Part: Considering how DFW ended his life, I couldn't help thinking that perhaps this lack was in part a symptom of depression.
He writes with the kind of presence that should probably be called accountability, and feels like a rare and luxurious commodity: clean air.What Kafka’s stories have[…] is a grotesque, gorgeous and thoroughly modern complexity, an ambivalence that becomes the multivalent Both/And logic of the, quote, “unconscious,” which I personally think is just a fancy word for soul.
Covering the Maine Lobster festival for a foodie mag, he writes in a disarmingly personal and heartfelt way about how awful the whole thing was, how depressing:As I see it, it probably really is good for the soul to be a tourist, even if it's only once in a while.
(If I remember correctly, I said something similar about Pynchon in Against the Day, and perhaps this means I've hit upon something which is, for me, one of the reasons that these somewhat pedantic writers who are doubtlessly some of the greatest ever literary minds rarely come across to me as condescending or patronizing or impenetrable: beauty.)I think I had intended some time ago when I finished this to go through essay by essay and say clever things about them, but it's been a long time and I'm always too buys to dally with books I've already finished.
I will say that the grammar essay was one of the most mind-blowingly, awe-inspiringly nerdy things I've ever come across, and I loved every single clause and punctuation mark of it.
I didn't know much about David Foster Wallace when I cracked open this collection of his essays, so the first piece on the Adult Video News Awards caught me rather by surprise.
Within just a few paragraphs, however, the sheer and utter brilliance of this fascinating and yet also erudite and intellectual examination of the porn industry left me with little doubt that DFW's reputation as one of the smartest and funniest writers of my lifetime is well-deserved.Prior to this book, if you had told me that I would soon find myself reading—and enjoying—a sixty-two page essay that is at its heart a review of a dictionary, I would not have believed you.
David Foster Wallace is a self-described SNOOT, the sort of person "who watched The Story of English on PBS (twice) and read Safire's column with their half-caff every Sunday." So, he's a bit of a know-it-all, and if you're like me, you'll feel like you're out of your league trying to keep up with him when it comes to grammar and all things English.
But that's okay, because he's also witty and self-deprecating, and interested in not just English usage (thank goodness!), but also politics, lobster festivals (warning: after reading his essay on the preparation of lobsters I'll never eat lobster again, and more power to you if YOU can), Dostoevsky (again, out of my league), pornography conventions in Vegas, and talk radio, among other things.
Suffice it to say that the urge to look over/down at their penises is powerful and the motives behind this urge so complex as to cause anuresis (which in turn ups the trauma)." Aside from hinting at the hilarious absurdity with which Wallace analyzes everything from porn galas to lobster festivals to John McCain's Straight Talk Express, this passage nicely captures my emotional approach to this book: I'd heard this Wallace guy had a pretty big brain.
I would suggest, dear reader, that when considering Consider the Lobster, that you consider it in the same light as David Foster Wallace's collection  A Supposedly Fun Thing I'll Never Do Again . Use that book as your frame of reference for style and content and you can place this collection firmly into the category of "typical" DFW. That being said, if you thoroughly enjoyed A Supposedly Fun Thing... then you'll likely thoroughly enjoy this one as well; by that same coin, if you're on the fence
I submit as an example: "Authority and American Usage" contains several sections that are slightly humorous in their own respect but can only be truly appreciated as bracingly so when you recall Wallace's thesis on Franz Kafka's humor from the prior article and the accompanying explication of said humor and why it is thoroughly pointless to try and explain any joke anywhere, let alone Kafka's absurdly dark and probably pathological comedy††.
It's like DFW had - or did enough research - to fill a set of encyclopedias on each topic, and then whittled it down to the presented short-storyish length.In "Big Red Son", an essay about the Annual AVN Awards (that's Adult Video News, by the way) I learned more about the adult entertainment industry than I ever thought possible.
PM me.He brought the same level of detail to an article about John McCain that was originally written for Rolling Stone Magazine, but is presented in the book in its unabridged form.
Only Wallace's ogre is our current reality and it's one tough onion!That said, there is one clunker in the bunch.
The 9/11 essay 'The View From Mrs. Thompson's', which feels contrived, manipulative, and falls well short of what I would guess Wallace intended.
Granted, this is a tough subject to approach for any writer and direct emotional appeal has never been Wallace's strength, so it should come as no surprise to us that it falls flat.
What would have been a lovely essay, perhaps, would be Wallace's explication of the difficulties of writing about 9/11.
E presto scopro che mai scelta fu più azzeccata, perché Wallace non solo si dimostra il miglior compagno di viaggio possibile, ma diviene anche l’unico del gruppo che frequento, durante tutta la permanenza sull’isola “vichinga”.Tra le ondeggianti strade islandesi, tra distese sterminate di violacei e sussurranti campi di lupini, tra le pecore rilassate, che dormono ignare e libere ai bordi di vie asfaltate ma senza guard rail, in giorni infiniti, lontani da notte e tempo, costeggiando un mare scontroso, fiero di non essere lì per te, scortati da vento e pioggia e salutati da raro sole, la conversazione con Wallace diviene via via più coinvolgente e intensa.E scopro due cose fondamentali di me:1)	Il cibo è molto importante per il mio umore, ma posso adattarmi a mangiare per giorni di fila aringa affumicata e pane nero;2)	È tutta la vita che aspetto uno come David e, se non fossi tipo da "unici amori" (che detto così è una contraddizione in termini!
Not his best for the following reasons:1. We know what we know now of how his life was cut short. So why the hell did someone, in retrospect, choose to send the great American writer to a bloody lobster festival? To a pornography awards show? At any rate, all this ended up revealing was that DFW was the real world Buzz Killington- he starts his porn award article with genital mutilation statistics, and implores of the readers of some gourmet food magazine to consider the pain and suffering of no
writer implicitly and that his klieg-glare into the dark corners of Standard Written English (a) that his grammatical prowess can indeed illuminate, and yet this hypomanic usage of brackets within footnotes creates a spiriferous subcategorisation of text to the point of turgitidy.)(a)	Heretofore unmentioned, henceforth “SWE”.[2] ie.
The reader of this document, by which I mean the review.[3] And just when you were honestly, bare-bones and “all on the table” trying to interpret a sentence successfully, a quizzically extraneous footnote which breaks the reading flow of even the most exalted DFW savant that you later decide has next-to-nothing to do with the sentence in which it sub-prolegomenously interjected eg.
Trust me, it's not.) There's a book review of darling tennis player of the 80s Tracy Austin's abysmally written autobiography (totally hilarious, but not in a mocking kind of way); a view behind the scenes of John McCain's 2000 Presidential bid against GW Bush for the GOP nomination (the worst of the collection, but still quite good); an essay on the titular crustacean and the annual Maine Lobster Festival (as featured in Gourmet Magazine in 2004...an article which I can't help but imagine that, if indeed published, singlehandedly led to the 
Audio footnotes following the threads of his thought are also included by the technique of Wallace changing his tone of voice– which sounds unlikely, but seems to work in the way of anecdotal asides.This collection of ten extended articles were originally published in magazines such as Rolling Stone, Harpers and – in the case of the eponymous essay – in the August 2004 edition of Gourmet, commissioned for the Maine Lobster Festival.
Credo di aver goduto poche volte nella mia vita come durante la lettura di Considera l'aragosta, e m
That talent came in handy for this book -- at least four of the essays had some sort of political bent.DFW is at his best, I think, when you can see clearly his struggle between his desire for openness/sincerity and his natural cynicism/skepticism/anxiousness.
This is a sad, sad thought not because I or the world will never have another DFW reading experience, but because there is such humanity and curiosity in his work that makes you think (irrelevantly, in vain) that maybe working through his thoughts in writing could have made him want to stay here.
Ma proprio a causa dell’assenza di filtri, nel rendere la sua testimonianza finisce per perdersi in mille dettagli scarsamente utili e in considerazioni terribilmente scontate e banali, ingenerando noia, disappunto e in qualche caso vero e proprio fastidio nel lettore che non sia sintonizzato sulla sua lunghezza d’onda.Prendiamo il primo saggio, Il figlio grosso e rosso, dedicato al mondo della pornografia made in USA nei giorni della premiazione degli Avn Awards, gli Oscar del cinema a luci rosse: in 50 pagine “i vostri corrispondenti” (perché il plurale majestatis?) raccontano nei particolari la pacchianeria, la volgarità, la banalità del mondo del porno, mostrando come tutti i luoghi comuni immaginabili su chi produce, gira e interpreta film a luci rosse siano desolatamente veri.
Não restam dúvidas de que, na prosa de DFW, vibra aquele que talvez seja o traço mais eloquente da literatura contemporânea (sobretudo pós-Joyce, pós-Woolf): a ambição de produzir parágrafos excessivamente conscientes de si mesmo, parágrafos que sejam também meta-parágrafos; a intenção de desenhar uma linguagem que se vire pelo avesso no mero ato de se imprimir sobre o papel.Isso é verdade tanto na ficção quanto na não-ficção do autor, que nos deixou precocemente em 2008.
Se alguém resolvesse explorar os mesmos temas em um tom sombrio e solene, o livro provavelmente seria intragável.É uma leitura cansativa, mas só porque DFW de alguma forma se agiganta, e, no contra-movimento, nos diminui.
Poi ognuno dà le risposte che vuole, ma intanto sono importanti le domande. Per esempio, in uno di questi articoli-saggi, quello che dà il titolo alla raccolta, avendo osservato e ben descritto “quel coperchio sbatacchiato freneticamente e quel patetico aggrapparsi al bordo della pentola”, D. F. Wallace - non da animalista radicale, ma solo da uno con testa e cuore – chiede ai lettori di “Gourmet - La rivista del vivere bene” e a ogni altro suo lettore: quando la metti a bollire viva, consideri l'aragosta?
i can see him with his bandana going to the world’s biggest lobster fair and being genuinely disgusted and compelled to share this story of suffering.i know he gets a ton of flack for his style, but it hasn’t stopped me from reading and re-reading almost everything he’s written and i certainly know i’m not the ideal reader for his work.
i’m happy to re-read his work, to take notes and cringe at the notes i made in the margins the first time around.i feel like people miss out on him because of his reputation and i’d hate for that to stop anyone.
