https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/221524.A_Country_Doctor
This is what old people must have felt when they think their whole life was decided by a bad decision on a fact that didn't looked so important when it was taken.Up in the GalleryA take on by-stander effect, social efforts to hide exploitation and silence of victims , all within two sentences.
I think Kafka is trying to objectify the general inadequacy that could be present in a disjointed family.
They, the immigrants, (at least some of them) make same effort to fit in, thinking westerns to be a higher breed, trying to fit in while learning to hate their roots, basic nature.
the day I read this story, it was part of a jeopardy question. and on top of that, none of the contestants knew that Kafka was the author.
How can such a brief and spare story contain such depths of meaning?
Inexplicably, two robust horses appear although with a groom who sends the doctor off into the night while remaining with the doctor’s housekeeper Rose, clearly intent on raping her.
The doctor immediately arrives at the home of the ill man, finding him afflicted by a horrible wound in his side, a wound rose-colored, deep, and threatening.
One also cannot avoid pondering the doctor’s failure to be able fully to concentrate on the task at hand, his attention being constantly diverted with concerns about Rosa at home.
این مرد عجیب به پزشک دو اسب و یک گاری می دهد و بعد سر به سر خدمتکار دهکده می گذارد.
پزشک فکرش پیش خدمتکار است و می خواهد زودتر برگردد تا اورا از زیر چنگال ها و سنگینی کثیف آن مرد غریبه رهایی دهد.
او که از راه های پزشکی توان کمک به پسرک بیمار را ندارد می خواهد آنجا را ترک کند ولی خانواده ی پسرک می پندارند که پزشک باید همچون کشیشی اونجا بوده و از لحاظ روحی و عرفانی پسرک را درمان کند.
(The traveller registers no surprise that the jackals can speak.) It's not clear who is in the right, as as with the traveller In The Penal Colony (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...), it raises the question of what an outsider can or should do to change things.You can read the full story here (3 pages):http://www.kafka-online.info/jackals-...A Visit to the MineThis has similarities with In The Penal Colony (but is more real, and lacking in gore) and the descriptions of the individual quirks of each of the ten engineers is rather like a more comical version of Eleven Sons (below).
Read the whole story here (8 pages):http://www.kafka-online.info/a-report...See my review of the stage adaptation, Kafka's Monkey:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
«نسخه نوشتن آسان است، همدلی داشتن با مردم سخت است.»
داستان شبیه به کابوس بود.
Bu öykü derlemesini hiç bilmiyordum ama.
Derlemeye adını veren Bir Köy Hekimi'nin 20 dakikalık bir anime filmi var, onunla keşfettim bu derlemeyi de zaten.Anime filmini anlamadığımı düşünüyordum ki derleme daha anlaşılmazdı.
Derlemenin genelinde de öne çıktı benim için o öykü.Diğerlerinde sıkıntı var yazım tarzı hiç Kafka okuduğumu hissettirmedi.
Öykülerin çoğu 2-3 sayfa, onlarda da sürrealizm ön planda ama bu kadar kısa oldukları ve dil olarak (ve Türkçeleştirmede de sorun vardı bence) odaklanması zor olduğu için, perde arkalarına pek giremedim.
:D Kafka daha yeni yeni yazıyormuş da neyi nerede keseceğini bilemiyormuş gibi hissettirdi.Birkaç öyküsü haricinde devamı çok anlamsızdı, bana göre.
İçindekileri dökecek kadar kağıtları yokmuş öykülerin sanki.
The dreamlike setting of this short story left me bewildered and with a lot of questions. until I decided I better read an analysis of this story. It is then I understood what Kafka was trying to communicate. I was amazed to say the least! as if Kafka transformed his thoughts and sat there in the middle of a dark nightmare writing as he watched the events in the story unfold before his eyes.below is the link to the analysis I've readthe other link is an award winning Japanese animation of this surrealistic story http://www.cliffsnotes.com/study_guid...http://www.openculture.com/2012/12/ka...
پزشک دهکده
Tek bir öykünü arıyorum, içinde ufak da olsa bir umut olan tek bir öykü.
اما در مرتبه ی بعد داستان های "در ردیف آخر"، پزشک دهکده"، "نوشته ای قدیمی"، جلو قانون"، "شغال ها و عرب ها"، "بازدیدی از معدن"، و "گزارشی برای یک آکادمی" - در این میان برخی به دلیل سبک روایت آشفته یا خاصی که دارند به دل می نشینند.
اما چنانکه می توان انتظار داشت داستان های زیادی در این مجموعه تنیده با ابهام و عدم تعین هستند مثل "وکیل مدافع جدید"، "پزشک دهکده"، "در ردیف آخر"، نگرانی پدر خانواده" و "خواب".
شاید پیوست کردن چند تحلیل از این داستان ها کمکی به رفع حس بد مواجهه با ابهام می کرد.
Sometimes things just stop making sense.
It's confusing enough to make your life make sense when you do the same thing day in and day out.
It gets worse with new equations and new variables added in the old results.
The story of a country doctor tells us just that.
A false alarm by a patient and the doctor is left confused with the path he decided to tread his whole life.
The story leaves us wondering at the ways of the world.
The old, the new and those yet to be seen!
When I went into Golden Lane of the enormous Prague Castle in mid afternoon, I had no clue that Kafka lived there on house number 22.
Kafka, exhausted of his rancorous apartment, took refuge in house no 22, where he used to come after his day job as the doctor of law in the Workers' Accident and Insurance Institute for the Kingdom of Bohemia, to spend a peaceful, quiet night of writing surreal, absurd, weird, 'Kafkaesque' stories.
After all, I read the horror inducing short story written by Kafka and I had obtained the book from the very place where he wrote it.
در كتاب گفتگو با كافكا چندين بار كافكا و يانوش در مورد داستان هاي اين كتاب با هم صحبت مي كنند.
من هم از اين فرصت استفاده كردم و اين كتاب را شروع كردم.
انگار كه فراموش كرده بودم كافكا هميشه براي من چقدر غير قابل پيش بيني بوده.
داستان هاي اين كتاب خيلي مهم اند.
از اين جهت كه كافكا از چندتايشان در كارهاي بعدي خودش استفاده كرده.
مثلا داستان جلوي قانون يكي از قسمت هاي مهم رمان محاكمه را تشكيل داده يا داستان پيام امپراطوري كه باعث نوشتن داستان ديوار چين شده.
كه البته همين دو داستان بهترين هاي اين كتاب هستند.
A small collection of short stories by Kafka. They are all quick reads, as none of them go beyond ten pages, with the exception of the last one. Of course, "quick read" is a bit misleading with Kafka, whose writing always deserves more careful consideration. I will have to return to a few of these stories to make sense of them.The most amusing story for me was "A Report for an Academy," which was a letter written by an ape who had successfully assimilated to life among humans.
کتاب مجوعه ای از قطعات ادبی است تا داستان کوتاه. قطعه ی آخر و قتل برادر را بیشتر از بقیه دوست داشتم قطعه یا داستان آخر گزارش برای اعضای آکادمی نام داشت که نمادین و سمبلیک در باب عدم درک نوشته های کافکا در زمان خودش است.
The only difference is that with an onion you have the certainty that it has an exhaustible number of layers, not so with “A Country Doctor." This onion-like structure in the story has many effects, of which I will mention only two – the ones I deem more important.
Firstly, this structure has a “punching” or “stabbing” effect on the reader, for it is confusing – to say the least – and defies the normative way of writing.
A reader, just like the doctor, will take a look at the book and see nothing wrong (perhaps they will only see the first “layer”).
Do I understand the underline meaning of this Kafka's short story?
That is what I think of this story.
The Doctor encounters his conflict, not just whether to help the poor patient or not as a doctor, about the reluctance of his capability as a human being.
He dares not to refuse helping the patient and also mixes up his guilt with his self-destructiveness when he drives off naked in the middle of the stormy night.
The story serves in the worldview of dehumanization that the strong will for good deeds does not exist.
I can totally bet this was actually one of Kafka's dreams, so delusional and enigmatic as it was. There are countless times when I force myself to deliver such wispy dreams (which make less sense to me in daylight than in the middle of a night) on paper but my simpleton mind can not make a head or tail of such writings and consider them deplorable. That is why Kafka who manages to bring a rhapsodic dream into an alive and breathing short story is such an endearing writer to me.
I wasn't quite ready for this story, nor was I ready for it to have ended as quickly as it did. A hauntingly vivid tale that stays with you far longer than you expect it to. One crisis leads to annother. An innocent life is put in peril for cost of a false alarm. Symbolism abounds in this piece.Amazing how a short story can really get under your skin and make you examine the choices people make and the ramifications of those decisions.
مجموعه چند داستان کوچک ناپیوسته اما معمولا با یک درون مایه مشترکبه گفته آقای فرامرز بهزاد، کافکا زمانی این داستانهای کوتاه را خلق کرده که در اوج خلاقیت بودهو باز به گفته آقای بهزاد چندان در بند تفسیر داستانها نباشید و اگر پی به مفهومی از داستان نبردید، ناامید نباشید حتی مفسران چیره دست هم نتوانستند مفهوم اصلی برخی داستانها را کشف کنند
خیلی جالب نبودصوتش هم غیر حرفه ای بود
http://bettie.booklikes.com/blog
To be quite honest, I think that there isn't (and there will never be) the right way to explain Kafka's stories, but I will try to give my explanation of it : well, I think it is a dream of an over frustrated old doctor who went through many stressful things during his life, due to his profession.
In addition, it criticizes those people who think they are better acquainted in some things then the real 'doctors'.
In fact, nothing seems to go right for this country doctor, he seems to be snowed under by bad luck all the way.
well, I don't think I'd rate anything by Kafka less than five stars, actually I can't help it I am in love with this wretched man and his masterpieces
Its a story about a doctor and the snow stormy night when he was called out to meet a patient but weird things started happening to him which is hard to explain what happened exactly.Personally this is more in line towards the Absurdist element than Melville's Bartleby does since this novel is like a ride with Fringe's Dr Walter Bishop on LSD.
Then later the patient's family undress him and push him inside the bed naked and everything seemed to went against all sense of reasoning and so we're left in a paranoid loop by the author and his character and neither of us could even make sense of anything.Honestly, if there are more clarity in this story, I would have been impressed by it.


Was cleaning out a book case in one of my smaller bedrooms and of course I ended up examining books I had not looked at for many years.
Remember reading this eons ago and since it had been many years since I has read Kafka, I ended up reading some of the stories.As strange and brilliant as it was the first time I read it.
Only at the very end does he attempt to exert control and that propels him into a forward action.Note to self: cleaning bookshelves often take longer than planned but is a great way to spend a rainy day.
