https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/209693.The_Drawing_of_the_Dark
When I was home for Christmas I saw this on the shelf and couldn't help but pick it up and read it. Cost me some sleep even though I was already exhausted. I missed an entire night of sleep reading it. As with anything written by Tim Powers, it's worth your time.Fair warning, if you're looking for a driving plot, this might not be the book for you. But if you enjoy mystery and unique worldbuilding, you're in for a treat....
Tim Powers is a mad genius.The siege of Vienna, Vikings, and the Fisher King.
I think I might have also spotted an embryonic form of the "Jacks" from Last Call.In Powers's later works, the Fisher King loses some of the more overt trappings of Arthuriana, and becomes a more unique Powers construct.
(I say it all the time, but seriously: if magic were real, it would work like it does in a Tim Powers novel.)One of the things I enjoy most about Powers's secret histories is that I always come away wondering just which parts were fictional and which parts really happened.
Here we start with the story of a 14th century "soldier of fortune" com adventurer who's traveled and been a rogue and mercenary (among other things), Brian Duffy.
As might be expected things are not as simple as they seem and before it's over Duffy will meet people, beings and creatures out of myth and history and quite possibly hold the fate of not only "the West" but all of Christendom in his hands.
This was a story that stayed with me, I like/liked it and I remembered it as soon as I ran across the "re-release".
But we also get drunk Vikings, enchanted swords, wild journeys with high magic through the mountains, more beer, and large-scale battle scenes.The plot revolves around the secret history of Europe, and a brewery that conjures up the stuff that champions are made of.
Powers invention is fully to the fore in this one, and also his way with a set piece, with the aforementioned trip through the mountains being a highlight, along with a descent deep into the bowels under the brewery with Merlin, where much that is hidden is revealed and the plot, and the beer, thickens.A fantasy novel about beer, and Arthurian archetypes by one of the greatest novelists of our time?
My favourite Tim Powers book and one of few modern fantasy books i have read that was a truly great read.I liked it cause of his style of writing, his characters ,the humour,action and the awesome blend of historical setting and the supernatural. His themes are very interesting.A ripping yarn ! A great historical fantasy.
Antes de nada, querría comentar que esta es una de las primeras reseñas que hago sobre un libro, así que no seáis muy duros al leerla.
Una historia que si habéis leído la sinopsis de más arriba, ya sabréis que se enmarca dentro del periodo histórico donde los turcos asediaron la ciudad de Viena en el siglo XVI.¿Y os preguntareis qué importancia puede tener la cerveza en esta historia?
Pues la verdad que bastante más de lo que a primera vista pueda parecer.Pero primero vamos a hablar un poco de Tim Powers.
This book, and perhaps the more famous ANUBIS GATES, treat the fantastic as part of a perfectly understandable world, which makes for an interesting writing style.Duffy is an aged soldier on the road to the Siege of Vienna, where he hopes to achieve some employment as a defender of the city.
The ensuing story has a little bit of everything thrown in to it- turks, mongols, magick, King Arthur, the Siege of Vienna, seedy Vikings, nuns, cannons, and most of all, BEER (the title references the annual drawing of the "Dark Batch" of Bock Bier at a particular bar in Vienna, which figures large into this plot).The Drawing of the Dark is a romp-- unapologetically throwing everything AND the kitchen sink into the mix and achieving wondeful results.
I enjoyed this, but there was a bit of a mish-mash of stuff, and a couple things didn't ring true for me, but I still give it a 3.5Brian Duffy is a bit of an Irish Jack of all Trades, and when he is offered a job in a famous brewery in Vienna, he decides it's the perfect opportunity to look up his old love he had never forgotten....He gets there and reconnects with her almost immediately, but as he starts his new job at the brewery, strange things start to happen...I don't mind a spiritual mish-mash, I do think most gods are just different interpretations of each other.
The very title itself refers to the drawing of the special, dark brew of beer that is performed once every few hundred years in order to invest the agents of the west with its magical, life enhancing properties.Punctuating the relentless beer drinking is plenty of action; Duffy is beset by antagonists at every turn trying to thwart him and the cause that he is at first not even aware of.
The author seems quite at home constructing action scenes that are well described and prevent boredom ever setting in.So, those are the things I liked about the book.
The other characters are more lightly sketched in, and the only female character gets a thoroughly raw deal, which is annoying.The plotline is based on the idea that there is magical stuff going on underneath the real, historical events of 1529 in Vienna, and the author weaves his fantastical bits well into the history, and does a good job of portraying a thoroughly unromantic view of mercenary soldiers of the time (without making them utterly unsympathetic).The prose is at times clunky (he seems to have taken to heart the writing "rule" about not naming your character too often, and epithets such as "the Irishman", "the magician", "the hunchback", "the captain", etc.
I just don't like fantasy.
Essentially it checked the progress of Ottoman Empire in central Europe and redirected it toward the Mediterranean.
It really is interesting enough without magical adornments, but then again the point of the book was probably how cleverly Powers weaved them in with known facts.
I finished it because I tend to do that and Powers is a good writer and even occasionally funny, but at no point did the book wow me or made it seem particularly worth the time.
Fans of fantasy would most likely love it though.
This is an early Powers novel that sat on my shelf for far too long, and I regret waiting so long to read it. while it's not as intricate and layered as his mature work, The Drawing of the Dark shows plenty of Powers' signature wit, characterization, and world building. It also marks his first foray into the mythology that forms the foundation of several of his best and best-loved books, including one of my favorites, Last Call.
It's about the Crusades and magic beer. That's going to either sell you on the novel or not.
povinne citanie pre vsetkych pivarov. ti sice uz davno tusia, ze cela nasa europska kultura je zalozena na pive, ale tu sa im dostane kopec 'argumentov'. Krestanska europa - to tak!!! ;-)
So I finally got around to reading my first novel by Tim Powers, it being this one. I had read his short story collection a few years ago, and found it interesting enough to read more of his work, but wasn't so bowled over by it. His writing skills seemed better suited for novels.From the Amazon.Com review, here is a rundown on the plot: It is the year 1529 and Brian Duffy, a soldier of fortune, finds himself in Venice. A late-night confrontation with three brothers over a matter of honor convin
It is the year 1529 and Brian Duffy, a soldier of fortune, finds himself in Venice.
This is one of those books that I read at the wrong time.
I raced through the more then half of this book in anticipation to not having much reading time.
It's just a matter of a writer learning his craft better.Powers proved my thoughts that he would be a good novel writer after reading his hit-or-miss short story collection a few years back.
Pero el libro tiene una buena cantidad de elementos sobrenaturales que Powers utiliza para dar una explicación alternativa al asedio de Viena de 1529, así que tampoco vamos a ponernos demasiado quisquillosos y aceptaremos "fantasía histórica" como género literario.El protagonista de Esencia Oscura es Brian Duffy, un mercenario irlandés que, tras un fugaz encontronazo con unos matones en Venecia, acaba viajando a Viena por encargo de un anciano, que considera que Duffy será el segurata ideal para la taberna que posee en la capital austriaca.
My opinion (and rating) hasn't changed since the first time I read this: it's a decent but uninspired novel, with a straightforward plot and excellent writing craftsmanship.
The goal is to keep the inn from being destroyed by Suleiman's forces before October 31, when the rich and magical Dark Herzwesten beer can be tapped and its power used.
Since Duffy learns these facts at Eastertime, the book drags in the middle as we wait out the months until All Hallows' Eve. Ultimately, Powers's skills with the written word and excellent descriptive powers keep The Drawing of the Dark from being merely average; to me, it serves mainly as the promise of the extraordinary brilliance of The Anubis Gates.
Mientras tanto hay un giro que muy inesperado, una magnífica idea del autor, que desperdicia de la manera más estúpida y sigue la trama por las ramas.
Unas ramas que no crecen, sino que se secan al no ser alimentadas por nada interesante.
Y espera, espera, que llega el final del libro en 5 páginas que dices tú: ¿Ahora, ahora se desmelena, para dejar este final abierto?
Da a pensar que la editorial se ha comido medio libro.Pero no pasa nada, me comprare y leere el próximo que se reedite, porque Tim Powers MOLA.
Wow, this is so not on sale anymore. It's now $11.99, so if you wanted a copy, I hope you already got one. Sheesh!!*****************************************I read and loved The Anubis Gates in college, and when this Tim Powers book pinged my Kindle sale radar, I snatched it up. I hope it's just as convoluted and fascinating as Anubis Gates was! You can get yours here if you want to try it out too.
I'm giving "The Drawing of the Dark" a FIVE for nostalgic reasons. My friend Ron and I would judge other books by this fine book by Tim Powers, an author of amazingly inventive imagination and wonderful, if flawed execution. Still, a four at least, for all sorts of good literary and artistic reasons. Thank you, Tim Powers. Brian Duffy was a great, skeptical, resistant hero, and I needed him way back in 1979 or whatever the year would have been.
Man, they wrote them dense, back in the day. There's a lot I enjoyed here--in particular, Brian's disgruntled, determined ignorance in the face of the supernatural--but not quite enough for me to love. The racial politics of the inscrutable Evil Muslim East battling the Good West in a literal clash of civilizations made me raise an eyebrow a bit. And the side plot with the protagonist's love interest was, uh, well, that was a thing that happened. Yep.
Tim Powers seems to have figured out all the elements of a story I enjoy and stuffed each of them into this book, save one: a satisfying, unrushed conclusion.The Drawing of the Dark was a historical fantasy; it made significant a common pastime (distilling and consuming beer); it pulled characters and histories with the full weight of Northern European Mythology (with a smattering of Persian); the atmospheric rendering was palpable; the knowledge of the era was convincing; the characters were mercenary, but they knew good from evil and chose the former; the scope of consequences was History Altering.On the other hand, it seemed to underplay or unexplore quite of a few of these same things, particularly those legendary figures.
I am not a fan of fantasy novels (so bear with me here).
This book came highly recommended on a website dedicated to siege warfare, where the novel was described as not only having done a great job describing siege warfare in the first siege of Vienna ~~~but it was a book about how beer saved the western world.
While I am not convinced that saving the western world was such a positive thing, I really do love beer and sieges so I immediately bought a copy.
Anyway, despite having my doubts, the book was so fun to read (especially when I drank beer while reading!)
Once again, I fell for the pull quote.
And it managed to pull me in for maybe two-thirds of the book.
I am not on board with (view spoiler)[ reincarnation.
And I didn't think I was signing up for a fate of the world good vs evil book, and didn't want it.
It felt like a mid-season write-out, not organic (hide spoiler)] Also there was a siege that made the last third drag.
Other issues that annoyed me: the pagan Vikings, in the mid-1500s?
Even my bad-at-history knew that was like 500 years too late.
Oh come ON. I was so ready to love a book where beer saves the world. I was even willing to forgive the clunky prose and the as-you-know-Bob internal exposition monologues. And then it had to go ahead and waste a perfectly good (middle-aged!) female character. Plus vague racism (though is it possible to have a medieval East v. West narrative from the point of view of the West without vague racism? I don't know.).
I forgot how much fun books by Tim Powers are. I’d put this one in the same camp as Neil Gaiman’s American Gods: legendary characters like Merlin, the Fisher King and Arthur/Sigmund meet with Suleiman at the Ottoman Empire’s siege of Vienna. The plot moves fast and smooth. Always enjoyable.
Tim Powers' first novel is much more accessible than the award-winning but dense and more-than-a-little-confusing ANUBIS GATES. In the odd final act tho, Powers undoes virtually everything he sets up in the first two-thirds of the book, which leads to a flat and unsatisfying ending.
One of the things that most impressed me about it is the way it condenses a story that is very large and epic in scope within a short amount of pages (only about 320); the story is the one that concerns the fate and survival of western civilization, but yet the events of the story specifically concern one city in the European country of Austria (Vienna) and one inn in that city and beneath that inn one particular brewery and in that brewery a special type of beer on which the fate of the world hinges.
This novel is an alternative history that takes place in 1529 and the central event of the story is the Siege of Vienna where the battle lines are drawn between east and west, with the west fighting for the survival of western civilization against the invading Ottoman Turks.
I enjoyed "The Drawing of the Dark" but also have to declare a slight disappointment.
I chose the book because of "Declare" (see what I did there?) which, I have to admit, has spoilt reading other books for me - will I ever find another book as brilliant?
but it wasn't "Declare".
I've been ruined!Our hero, Brian, gets involved in a bit of trouble in Venice and takes the opportunity to return, as a bouncer in an inn, to Vienna when it is offered him.
His journey there is full of strange manifestations but soon settles down to a humdrum drunken life in Vienna, soon to be besieged by the Turks...
The best thing about this book, is that so many people read it and then it dropped off the radar.
That means it'll be a new experience for everyone reading it now un affected by the reactions of others.
I read it prior to 1983.
One of the best scenes is a "Little John" moment (Robin Hood) where the hero meets the man that would become his sidekick through the story.
THere's even a little romance.Exciting read.
The book deserves to be marked as "a Classic of Epic Fantasy." There is violence and some adult romantic situations but probably still appropriate for Young Adult.
