https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40363243-the-living-reed
How much do I now weigh?” an innocent member of the GR community asks the internist.“One hundred and sixty-two pounds with your clothes on,” was the reply.“I confess, Doctor.
“A 5’4” male should weigh one hundred and fifty-two pounds.
Buck piece titled, “The Living Reed, A Novel of Korea,” which makes me think of ‘kimchee,’ but I rather not talk about food right now, probiotic or not.Perhaps some sashimi….it’s light.This is a fictional account of Korea, an old nation, surrounded by hostile countries and its insistence to be independent from them.
The Living Reed is a multi-generational saga centred upon the Kim family who struggle to maintain their proud Korean heritage and culture through the dark and harrowing days of Japanese occupation.
The story tells of Korea's historically unfortunate geographic location, a small nation which from the late 1800's to after the Korean War was destined to be a pawn of more powerful nations including China, Russia and Japan.
Through it all the proud Kim family struggles with dignity, courage and perseverance to do all that they can to bring about an end to their country's occupation.
This book had AMAZING characters and I found myself falling in love with Korea and the Korean people.
Pearl Buck is an amazing author and has a way of bringing people's struggles, desires, fears, loves and hopes to life in a way that no other author does.
Before I read this book I could have cared less about Korea and her history.
I am so glad that I've discovered Pearl Buck because I feel that through her books I get a glimpse into the life, religion, and history of Eastern cultures, something that my Western education has neglected to do.
North Korea is regarded as one of the world’s biggest threats to stability, safety, and peace, so it seemed imperative to learn more Korean history.
Korea has been a pawn between these two great Asian powers for centuries.The book opens in 1881 with nobleman Il-han Kim, favorite of the Korean Queen, who advises her to reach out to the Western powers instead of to China.
Japan regains control over Korea as a result of the Russo-Japanese war, and its rule makes for the most brutal scenes in the book.
....when she really started churning'em outI'm no expert on Korea or Korean history, though I did live there for six months some years ago.
At that time, I learned enough about the country to realize that THE LIVING REED is a joke.
If you like soap opera, uplifting prose about valiant people striving to overcome whatever, then this book could be for you.
But, if you like reasonably authentic background and depiction of central characters who are not cardboard figures, then think twice before devoting too much of your time to such a book.
This book is just not very good.
It talks about the lives of the koreans during the world war times and before – covers the experience of 4 generations of the Kim family in Korea.
What I liked: I was awed by the beauty of korea as described in the book, and the superstitions are well, Koreans overtake us in terms of superstitions :-P The living reed who led the rebellions and passed the information through magazines.
The Koreans in this novel continuously thought of the Americans(Government) as almost-Gods.
I wonder that too..!And though the author had taken pains to justify every action/ignorance of Americans throughout the book, why did she decide to ignore the bombings in Japan in the last part?
Mrs. Buck, who is most famous for writing richly detailed historical fiction about China, turns her efforts towards Korea, from the 19th century to 1945. A novel as good as any of hers - a good story, and a good insight into the lives of a people, as well.
un roman historique dont tout y vrai en plongeant dans l'histoire de trois générations d'une même fa
2.5 stars, because I liked the idea of it, and the first half, despite HUGE historical inaccuracies.
I am by no means a scholar of Korean history, but the little I do know makes me certain that Pearl Buck did very little research for this book, which makes the characters come off more like caricatures of Korean people.
If you're going to read one book by Pearl Buck, read The Good Earth.
That IS wonderful.In the end, the key to any good historical novel is RESEARCH.
And Ms. Buck really dropped the ball on this one.
Took me awhile to get through this one, I was savoring the time and vibrant history in this book. As an adult I miss the history classes I never took, but this is a pleasant way to catch up. I know I read the good earth many years ago and plan to revisit it again. Don't miss this author I was quite intrigued by the story behind Korea although I still have not researched why and when the country divided into the north and south. That is for another book I guess
3.4
It started very good but I completely lost interest in the second half.
So detailed in fact, that if you weren't sure how babies nurse, there's a whole page explaining it.
I kept trying to figure out just how historically accurate everything is, I mean, it's fiction, but we all know how well researched Buck's books usually are.
I've read different accounts ranging from 'this book is terribly researched' to 'it could pass as a historical textbook on korea' - and I don't have a firm enough grasp on Asian history to make a judgement.
So I guess, take it with a grain of salt?Bottom line: If you love historical fiction, you'll breeze right through this.

I started this book last year and finally finished it sometime in January.
Buck as a writer, but this novel was very hard to read for me.
It's a fascinating book about a slice of Korean history, between the late 1800s and through the beginning of World War II.
The original reason I started to read this book was to learn about unique cultures that are not well know in the Western world.
As per any book by Buck, the plot moves quickly and sometimes the cliffhanger moments keep you reading.
I recommend this book for anyone interested in Korean history and philosophy.
Buck is one of my favorite authors, but this book was probably my least favorite of what I've read from her.
It still has all the hallmarks of what Buck does so well -- rich, moving characters who seem real and human, full of depth and complicated motivations.
But her devotion to tracking the complicated political tensions of 20th century Korea ultimately bogs her story down, and the narrative gets lost several times, in my opinion.
The book could have been half as long, since it spans three generations, and the reader loses some of the attachments to characters as a result.
Buck has written better stories than this one.
If you have always believed there should be one Korea, and that the North/South division is a modern imposition, reading this book, which is both historical, yet gently lyrical, at times, will go a long way towards realizing why one Korea would likely never work. Very different peoples, different belief systems, and the tragedy is that the "line" separated some families, and to the "wrong side" of their actual ethnic divide. Pearl S. Buck is at her best, in this book.
I finally finished this book! It's not that it wasn't interesting, it's just that it contained so much Korean and world history, as well as philosophy, religious belief, political ideology... It's really a lot to take in and absorb all at once. At its heart, it's the story of one man's family and how they come to terms with the changing world around them.
One of my favourite books, simply briliant...
When Pearl Buck's popularity fell off dramatically not long after she won the Nobel Prize for Literature, among the criticisms of her prose style was that it was prone to stock phrases.
Modern Asian writers, who weren't alive at the time, have come around to acknowledging this, after for years Buck was persona non grata with Communist governments who didn't like her sympathetic portrayal of the lot of peasants under both old and new systems.The Living Reed covers three generations of a patriotic Korean family and their participation in efforts for Korean independence from the 1860s through just after WWII.
But I highly recommend this book to get a feel for this enigmatic country, especially while there are still people alive who remember the times Buck is writing about.
A time of desperate decisions in order to maintain independence, of which were acted upon too late, resulting in the occupancy of this country by Japan because China had lost its power to protect them from such.Though the characters are fictional, the moments of time are very real; painfully real.
Thus, the occupancy of Northern Korea by Russia because America did not head the pleas from the Koreans for help before it happened (even before Japan conquered Korea turned to the new western power, America, but were not heard).
America did not want to offend Russia because of its help during WWII and Japan because they had surrendered and had suffered.
The first part was probably a 41/2 and last 1/3 was a one or two How do you rate a book so long wit some wonderfully drawn characters and some incredibly boring years long walks?Synopsis:The Living Reed follows four generations of one family, the Kims, beginning with Il-han and his father, both advisors to the royal family in Korea.
Buck's epic tells the history of Korea through the lives of one family.
She paints an amazing portrait of the country, and makes us empathize with their struggle for sovereignty through her beautifully drawn characters.
I have always enjoyed Buck's stories of China and find that this novel of Korea in the last part of the 19th and first half of the 20th Century is not quite as good; it is well-written if overlong with little to make you really care about the characters since its focus is more on the events.
While I thought that I knew a fair a bit about Korea and its history, my knowledge of this time period was all broad brush -- this story exposed my ignorance and I'm not sure how close to actual events this story hews.
It does mean that I now have to find a non-fiction account of the same time period to read.
I have read Pearl Buck before but to say this book was one of her best is insufficent.
I couldn't wait to come back to it when I put it down.
Although fiction, so much information about Korea, thru her research to write this book.
A wonderful family story about the ills that have beset the Korean people for hundreds of years.
Also a picture of how our United States has failed this country.
They allowed Russia to take the land that is now North Korea, and has become a horrible place for those unfortunate people who were there.
Actually I'd rate it between a 3 and a 4. The four is for how worthwhile the story is. It is certainly informative about Korea in the first half of the 20th century. It is well-written and interesting historically and for its characters. The three is for how much I actually enjoyed it. I found myself wanting to get through it even though I did find it quite interesting. This was partly been because a book I was a bit more interested in reading had just been checked out for my kindle and I wanted to get to it.
This is a bit dry but I learned a ton about Korean history. We are taught so little about Korea in this country. It is worth reading. Interesting for those who study political history in particular. Even though it was written in 1963 it is still quite relevant. would have been helpful to have read this before I read Pachinko.
A wonderful book. Great characters. A bit slow for the first 200 pages but the last 200 made it well worth the read. I did a bit of research on the side and found some of the historical aspects not to be very accurate but who cares when the reading is so interesting. It is a novel. Buck always has to bring her christian views into her books but i have learned to skim over them.
A wonderful readMy first Buck book and plan to read more. History delivered in a colorful mix of characters,places and events. Very easy to understand why she loved this place in our world.
Pearl S. Buck's "The Living Reed" is a beautiful and haunting read. Anyone with an interest in historical literary fiction and/or the history of Korea should read this book.
Long and pretty slow-going, but ultimately interesting look at Korean life and history from the viewpoint of one family.
