https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/251823.The_Parsifal_Mosaic
Some of the sequences are "cookie cutter" for this author, the first 200 pages of this book seemed so similar to the first 200 pages of Bourne Identity that I was debating if I was wasting my time, and later in the novel there is an unraveling mystery location which won't be unfamiliar in the least to those who have already read "Bourne Ultimatum" this location just happens to be on a different continent.
Things would probably go something like this- Chinese Premier- Hmm, this document is very very strange, I call Moscow and Washington, we see what's going on.
President Reagan- Chairman Mao, President Gorbachev, this is the Gipper here, and I understand you both feel very upset about this document you read that was signed by my former secretary of state General Doofachuck.
This book is good because Ludlum sticks to what he does best - spies and their strategic games; leaving aside tedious politics and economics.
The story is essentially just strategies, traps, moves & countermoves devised, executed and subsequently taken apart by the best of the spies in the Consular Operations and the VKR (a right-wing part of the KGB).Micheal Havelock, our hero and the best secret agent of the Cons Ops, saw his love, Jenna Karas, die on a beach in Barcelona following what he thought was a betrayal.
Dec 2014 Reread.STill love this a million times over. Admittedly there are things I skim when I'm reading something for the 20th (or more) time. But I love these characters, I love the clever espionage, and the mystery here is completely unique. OLD: My very very very very favorite Ludlum book. I read these over and over again in high school and college, raiding my parents' library. I eventually had to start buying my own copies. This is definitely my favorite.
Well i am glad I finally got this book read.
Well what did I think.......In one word....CONVOLUTED!
This book is so confusing.
There is just so many words, and subplots and verbal beatings around the bush.
I just felt like shouting "Get to the point Ludlum!" (note the exclamation point...its a favorite of Ludlums).
I felt the first half of the book is way better than the second half.
This book could have been 300 to 400 pages instead of almost 700.
Well i guess I feel generous today, and in my own demented way I kind of like Ludlum.
Cold War spy Michael Havelock wants out after killing his KGB double agent girlfriend Jenna.
The questions begin to stack up: Who wanted Michael out?
Why wasn't he killed?
Following the answers, Michael uncovers a plot by a madman to bring the world to nuclear Armageddon (this is the Cold War after all, everything was always about nukes).
And to be honest, I'm still not sure why Michael wasn't killed, why Jenna's death was faked, or how they saved the world in 1982 from insane Kissinger.
The second Ludlum book I read.
After consulting several top 10 ludlum lists, this book figured in the top 5 in all of them.
My main gripe with this book is that it is too similar to the Janus Directive, the previous Ludlum book I read.
Though it easily trumps the Cry of the Halidon, the next book I am reading.
As a thriller, it does not disappoint.
The central conflict of the book, of a hero who is led to believe his love has betrayed him and his country, is interesting enough to keep the reader invested.
Overall, a good book.
I loved this when I was a teenager and I still do. Ludlum's plot questions the power behind those in power and he creates a cast of characters that weave about so much it left me wondering who would end up being the good or the bad guys. It's an intense read - so if you like fast-paced and fabulous, I'd highly recommend this.
Double agent and partner Jenna Karas is gunned down by by Michael Havelock's agency. After spying her on a train platform and being hunted by both the United States and Russia, Michael sets out to find the truth
I think this was one of my top 2 favorite Robert Ludlum books. He is an awesome writer! Keeps me reading till my eyes are red and the sun is coming up!
the Czech bunny, Jenna, is a rather underrated anti-heroine in page-turner tome.  the backdrop tale for the protagonist right around p. 100 is excellent.the Apache aka the gunslinger is a good foil to someone mightn't've placed 'beyond salvage' in the writer's vernacular.the Bourne Identity is favourite Ludlum book so far, the Matarese Circle also good with familiar plotline of agent being placed 'beyond salvage' by federal government he works under.utilization of the fictive Soviet gun a Graz-B
the Czech bunny, Jenna, is a rather underrated anti-heroine in page-turner tome.
the backdrop tale for the protagonist right around p.
100 is excellent.the Apache aka the gunslinger is a good foil to someone mightn't've placed 'beyond salvage' in the writer's vernacular.the Bourne Identity is favourite Ludlum book so far, the Matarese Circle also good with familiar plotline of agent being placed 'beyond salvage' by federal government he works under.utilization of the fictive Soviet gun a Graz-Burya semiautomatic pistol is another trademark.
makes readership wonder why the espiocrat desires serving a country with capabilities of seeing the spy as an enemy at the drop of a hat.
The best of the early Ludlum works (I don't include the syndicated, multi-author, post-mortem marketing who-hah books). Even though Ludlum's male protagonists are all vaguely similar -Bourne, Havelock, etc. - Ludlum never fails to make them complex and flawed. Parsifal is crisply written and arguably the most dense of stories, keeping the reader guessing throughout.
Started slow for me, but the intrigue keeps you guessing until the final chapter. Cross and double cross, moles and enemies and friends are all called into question. A good cold war story. I just wish Ludlum didn't use so much description at times, as it holds up the story.
Not as great as his other books-- but OK
Very Ludlumy.
An excitingly entertaining read.
The story was interesting but there were so many unnecessary details that the book seemed to drag on too long.
One of the best that I have read so far. Lots of twists, kept me engaged the whole book.
So it took me almost 11 days to finish this book not because I'm a slow reader but but ...
Mr. Ludlum fed me too many characters and led me to too many events before the build-up to his plot most of which caused me to put the book down on several occasions.
I don't know about others but it seemed to me that he unnecessarily lengthened the buildup.
I liked what he tried to say through this book but not the way he said it.
I don't know when is the next time I'm gonna pick up another of his books.
Altri romanzi come "Il circolo Matarese" e "Aquitania" usano la guerra fredda come sfondo, ma non si basano su di essa come invece accade in questo libro.Robert Ludlum, come già detto molte volte nelle mie precedenti recensioni è un maestro indiscusso del genere spy-story, tanto da meritarsi l'appellativo di "Mr. Plot" -signor complotto-.
Come la maggior parte dei romanzi di Ludlum, il palcoscenico della vicenda è il mondo stesso, per un romanzo che non vedi l'ora di finire.
I intend to return to this review and write one worthy of this brilliantly complex spy thriller which I believe qualifies as some of the authors finest work.
I first this in jail in 1992, I proceeded to read most of the authors back catologue and although they were all very good this, the Holcroft Covenant and the truly exceptional novel the Aquitaine Progression were my three favourites.
For those that read and find themselves as impressed as I, might I suggest a coupkle of less well known authors whose novels are good and similar in flavour to Ludlum.
The Parsifal Mosaic followed the Bourne Identity and is one of his greatest works! Parsifal was originally an Opera by Wagner, Parsifal being a wandering youth in Spain who safeguarded the spear that pierced the side of Christ. It certainly took Robert Ludlum time to develop his craft. His earlier works were absurd, illogical, and disjointed. The Parsifal Mosaic was an international thriller. In both the Parsifal Mosaic and the Bourne Identity Ludlum has developed character depth and logical flow, with some incredible twists! It is very hard to put either of these books down!
I read this first when I was in High School...maybe 16 years old.
I read almost all of Ludlum's library while I was in High School.
My mother liked them, so they were always around.
It is too deeply rooted in a geopolitical climate that no longer exists.
While it does live in the Cold War era of Soviet-US-China relations, it's main theme and plot are still feasible today and are still just as scary.I'd like to re-read The Chancellor Manuscript soon.
That one seems like it would hold up well being rooted in an American historical event rather than a globe-spanning conspiracy.
As a big time Ludlum fan, I walk into any Ludlum book with high expectations.
I think this is a good book, but it was bit of a roller coaster for me in ways that other Ludlum novels weren't.
By the end, overall, I was impressed with the scope and the detail of the story.The story is layered and complex, more so than any of his other stories I have read.
It felt confusing and convoluted at times in the midst of it, but by the end most of it made sense to me.
I felt both of those things as I read through it myself.
Now, this was my first book of Ludlum that introduced to me all possible intricacies that can exist in the world of espionage.
The fact that Ludlum remained king of espionage thrillers was mainly due to the fact of tragic loving reminsces that the protogonist experiences.
International dealings, God knows whether they happen the way Ludlum imagined, but no doubt, later day spooks might have, in all probability, considered his books for reference, if not used as text books.Writing the summary and detailing pros and cons would be doing injustice to such a mystic thriller.This book, in fact forced me to read all other books of Ludlum.


Michael Havelock, a U.S. spy with a tortured past, finally finds some happiness with a fellow spy, Jenna Karas aka Jenna Karasova.
Unfortunately, he discovers that Jenna is a double agent, and watches her die for her betrayal.
Preparing to abandon his agent-life and retire to become a teacher, he catches a glimpse of Jenna, alive, at a chance meeting in Europe.
The chase is on, as he tries to track down Jenna and figure out why she's alive, and who was deceiving who.Loved the book a lot and enjoyed reading it, especially the first half of the book, which was outstanding.
Great read, lots of excitement and suspense.
Michael Havelock's world died on a moonlit beach on the Costa Brava.
He watched as his partner and lover, Jenna Karas, double agent, was efficiently gunned down by his own agency.
Until, in one frantic moment on a crowded railroad platform in Rome, Havelock saw his Jenna-alive.
From then on, he was marked for death by both U.S. and Russian assassins, racing around the globe after his beautifl betrayer, trapped in a massive mosaic of treachery created by a top-level mole with the world in his fist-Parsifal.
Re-read this after about 25 years.
It's still a page turner, but I had forgotten how complicated it was.
At one point, the characters spent 10 pages explaining the plot to themselves!
It also took me a while to realize that the Secretary-of-State character with a God complex could perhaps be modeled after Henry Kissenger.
At first I thought it was interesting, almost quaint to go back and see the paranoia about the Russians, and the 'travelers', (spys who grew up and blended in to become spys after 20 years) and then we say in the news a few weeks ago that it's still going on....

