https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10617.The_Bachman_Books
The book takes place in America's future, with The Long Walk becoming the new national TV sensation, game show sensation, reality show sensation and BETTING sensation, with a whole economy wrapped up in a game of death.
King does so many subtle things so brilliantly in this book- it is not only a means to discuss important issues like death, fame, politics, money, etc as the boys in the Walk talk the hours (and days) away, but to have them talk about these things in THIS situation makes it feel normal, and not preachy.
Also, simply doing things like always capitalizing various words and phrases(The Long Walk, Crowd, Warning, Ticket, Squads, Cheer, etc) make you yourself begin to question the 'big questions'.
The main character is compelling and endearing in his way and the novel definitely has some strong moments here and there, I just felt that it took a little to long to get to some of them.The Running Man:It's the future and Ben Richards journeys to the Network Games Building to apply for a job as a contestant in order to supply the money to feed his family and provide medicine for his sick infant daughter.
Due to his mentality, he has some trouble in school, especially one time when he gets called up to the blackboard to do a problem, and the teacher makes fun of him.
Charlie ends up in a mental hospital, and that's probably for the best."The Long Walk" is so far my favorite in this collection.
I won't give it away, but it was excellent, I was left with a big grin on my face, saying "Hell yea!"All of these stories were great in my opinion, and having finished, I don't know if I could pick a favorite between "The Long Walk", "Roadwork" and "The Running Man".
These four novellas are almost as good as their cousins from  Different Seasons . It's a shame that the Columbine Shootings have directly proceeded to the best of the four stories—Rage, with its everyone-can-find-some-angle-to-relate-to protagonist Charlie Decker, he who thrashed in his sleep whilst in the marescape of The Cherokee Nose Job—being consigned to the ashbin of publishing history. No more shall the intrepid young reader experience the thrilling fractured-mirror empathic pulses from t
It may be that my memories of Rage are all the fonder as, one hash-filled eventide during my eighteenth year, select passages from the narrative of Charlie Decker, read to me by a luscious lynx of a Croat, were accompanied by one of the finest, most leisurely handjobs I've ever had the pleasure of experiencing that wasn't self-administered—she worked it like the shifter of a banana yellow Porsche 928—and until the day I die I will always, first and foremost, associate Rage with that pleasant sharing with a svelte story chum.
Decker and his Ted-baiting shenanigans greeting the curious reader and inveigling him towards Getting It On.
I loved The Long Walk with its imaginative plot and great character study.
I could see what it was trying to do - mainly a slow unraveling of the main character into madness, - but I just couldn't focus on the story.
Running Man sort of returned to the glorious exploration of survival that I liked in the Long Walk, but again failed to completely engage me.
The characters weren't as fleshed out, and the ending was sort of meh.
I'm kind of on the fence about these attempts, but will certainly recommend The Long Walk to anyone interested checking out that side of King.
Three Stephen King novellas written under the pseudonym of Richard Bachman collected together in one volume.Products of their time, two of them featured dystopian futures that pre-dates reality television - which makes for an interesting read.The collection isn’t the strongest, but a must for King fans.
Rage was so predictive! I'm glad it's no longer in print, but equally glad I read it first.
Like, I re-read this thing at least twice a year, that's how much I love it and all of the characters and everything.
See, I didn't like Roadwork the first time I read it.
But in TRM, King's created this almost entirely different dystopian world, and let me tell you how interesting it is to read this book in 2015, when most of the stuff in this book has already 'taken place.' Also, it's freaky to me that Ben Richards was 'born' a month after I was.
Rage - 20 years before high school massacres started in America, King wrote this story of a misunderstood and clearly mentally ill kid going apeshit and holding his classroom hostage.
Ben Richards, out of options for raising money to care for his sick daughter, signs up to be a contestant and lands the ultimate gig - "The Running Man," the most popular show on tv.
For every day he stays alive, more money gets pumped to his family, but what starts as a noble sacrifice on his part leads to rage and revenge when he realizes the game is rigged.
I'll rate the four novels individually:Rage: 1 star.
A yawner considering the quality of the next one...The Long Walk: 4-5 stars?
Then you basically get whatever you want.Roadwork: 1 star.
Essentially the film "Falling Down" with a lower body count and little of the wit.The Running Man: 4-5 stars.
Light-years from the film adaptation and eminently superior.
I'm not sure about this, but this novel seems to serve as a rip-off point for many inferior dystopian products.
"The Hunger Games", which is awful, basically ripped this off: in a poverty-stricken future controlled by rich, fascists, people starve and starve for entertainment.
The Long Walk- 2 stars- I was really expecting this one to be my favorite of the four because of all the good stuff I heard about it.
Roadwork- 5 stars- Now this one I was expecting to be my least favorite and go figure not only was it my favorite of the four but one of my all time favorites.
Not only that but George is one of my all time favorite characters.
You come across characters that could have been more fleshed out were the book longer.
The best part of this book was the last like 50 pages with a great ending.
As I finish them, I will write mini-reviews for them.Rage: While unrealistic in many senses, this has been among the most interesting and gripping Stephen King story I've read yet.
but I found this one to be more interesting and a lot better.The Long Walk: This, along with The Running Man, is probably the reason why newcomers to King's work would pick up this collection.
The best part is, though, that by focusing his story on one stretch of highway and specifically on a certain set of boys in the group of 200 that start the walk, King allows the reader to understand the emotions and sanity levels of the group entire.
(This "multiple personality syndrome" that occurs with writers is explored by King in the story "Secret Window, Secret Garden" and the novel The Dark Half.) However, after Bachman was 'outed' as Steve King, the sales soared (naturally) and this book was published, collecting the first four of his short novels.This was a very uneven book for me.
The fourth novella about a future America where violence is a reality show, "The Running Man", was the equivalent of a Hollywood action movie starring any one of the tough guys (it was ultimately made into a movie with Arnold Schwarzenegger, so there!) - very exciting to read but lacking any substance.The one story which elevated this book to three stars for me is the second one, "The Long Walk".
I hate to rate this 3.5 stars, but the story Roadwork really pulled it down a lot. The other 3 stories in this book were pretty decent, The Long Walk being my favorite. You can find seperate reviews that I have wrote for each one. King did a great job with creating different writing styles between King and Bachman. I applaud him on that. So it was refreshing to read something a little diferent.
This is a great collection of early Bachman stories written by Stephen King: Rage, The Long Walk, The Running Man, and Roadwork. I've reviewed them all separately, and some I've liked more than others, but still, in my profession and expert opinion, it's hard to go wrong with King. ;)
After having read through the entire book over the time period of a few years I've concluded that "The Long Walk" is my favourite novel here, which I do remember enjoying a lot the first time around also.
The book takes a long time to slowly let the reader know who this voice is and what the whole story behind it is and this is part of the book's slowness and what made it such a bland read for the most part.
I read these back in 2015. These stories make me think of Stephen King's short story, UR. Imagine another universe where SK chose to write literary fiction instead of horror. I love his literary fiction, especially The Long Walk. I enjoy his genius in literary contrast. In his controversial book, Rage, I found myself laughing at the killer's dark humor and trying to stop myself, because it felt wrong to laugh.
I loved both The Long Walk and The Running Man,, but found Roadwork a bit bland.
It's a good thing they stuck it in the middle, because I may have just given up on it if it had been the last of the three stories included in this book.
A sometimes horrific, heart-wrenching look at the lengths to which human endurance can stretch.Roadwork is about a man who's whole life is about to be torn apart so that a road can be built through the middle of it.
There were interesting aspects, but I never really enjoyed reading it.The Running Man again does what it says on the tin.
It collects all but Thinner of the original five Bachman novellas."The Running Man" I already reviewed.
It's about a student who took his high school class hostage, killing the teacher in the process.
The rest of the story is just him talking to the class and figuring how it came to this point.
It's an amazing story about what it's like to be a teenager from someone who wasn't too far from that age himself.
It's always being blamed for high school hostage situations, but I think that's because people don't understand it.
Without a doubt one of my favourite books, the Bachman Books proves that horror is not about vampires, werewolves and blood but rather about human nature, depravity and circumstance.
The Long Walk, Rage, Roadwork and the Running Man were included in my copy, with Thinner and the Regulators being read seperately.
Out of them all I would have to say that the Long Walk was my favourite for its intensity and bitter comprehension.
I used these stories as examples whenever people feel it necessary to knock the genre, because something they show is that the real, ball clenching horror of the world does not lie in fantasy but in reality.
This is a collection of four early Stephen King novels which were originally published under his now famous Richard Bachman pseudonym.
The Long Walk and The Running Man are arguably in the ball park of science fiction, Roadwork is a very interesting character study, and Rage is a chilling and foreshadowing vision of Columbine and such subsequent incidents.
The novels are all substantially shorter than almost all of his later works, and have a pure and exhilarating full-speed-ahead-and-damn-the-torpedoes-and-lets-tell-this-story verve and enthusiasm that many of his later stuffier and more carefully crafted books lack.
I recommend it unreservedly for his iconic Constant Readers.
This is the omnibus that is no longer sold commercially, thanks to the lead novella "Rage," which was found in the locker of one of the school shooters of the late '90s.
You will now find editions of the other three novellas sold separately.
No matter what evil conspires to ruin the down-home characters of a SK book, there's usually a good bit of humor sprinkled throughout.
Bachman characters just get shit on from start to finish, and the endings offer no glimpse of hope.
Just finished the Bachman books, I skipped through the long walk because I already read it. I found rage and the running man both fascinating in their own way but hit a slump with roadwork, I can almost say I hated it hahaha. If you go for rage and running man, i totally recommend this.
Some of King's best stories are in this collection, notably Rage, written years before Columbine, The Long Walk, which is like The Hunger Games without the love triangle or the optimism, and The Running Man, which is much darker and much better than the movie that was (very, very loosely) based on it. These are all typically grim King stories, but without the supernatural flavor of most of his work.
I reviewed each story separately.Go check out my reviews.The Long Walk: 4*My Review: The Long WalkRoadwork: 3*My Review: Roadwork The Running Man: 5*My Review: The Running Man
The original version of "The Running Man" would have made a much better movie than the one Arnold starred in, but with the 9/11 attacks and the protagonist's obvious racial views and language, it couldn't have been done by a Jewish owned Hollywood movie studio. King had a more realistic worldview before he got hit by that car and totally cucked.
I actually like a lot of what Stephen King has written although some of it, like The Gunslinger, seems too hastily written and lengthy. This one of the better collections. I liked The Long Walk (1979) especially.
I read Rage and The Long Walk. Very violent and depressing. I didn't care for them. They were well-written but as any who know me, I don't do depressing pleasure reading. I'm glad that King's style has changed.
Stephen King....oops Richard Bachman is a master of short stories and I really loved this collection. Mind you, I read this years ago but I still remember how good it was.
One thing I didn't like at all was the fact that McVries was an attempted rapist but was portrayed as a good guy and the best buddy of Garrity.
The final 2 was really predictable, as I think King was a bit heavy-handed in his hints towards Stebbins, and I didn't really understand how the kid was being used as the "rabbit" unless the Major knew his Prize would motivate him enough to win while the other kids didn't know what they wanted, but it wasn't made clear that Stebbins had told the Major what his Prize would be (unless I missed it, which is possible).
