https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47720.The_Sandman
Endless entertainment! This volumen is a special presenting short stories featuring each member of The Endless.The general rating is an average sum of the ratings given to each story contained in this comic book.All stories are written by Neil Gaiman.A very amusing thing is that while each story is focused in a member of The Endless (the family of Morpheus, the Lord of Dream), you may be able to appreciate how each other member of The Endless causes some level of impact in some way or another,
Rating: **** ( 4 stars )Illustrator: P.
Rating: ***** ( 5 stars )Illustrator: Milo Manara
Most planets are asleep yet.Dream and Desire are still close to each other, but you will find out the reason of their distancing.Delight is still Delight, not yet Delirium.Destruction is still in his post.Despair, mmh… Despair is there too.Destiny and Death will do brief appearances.You will have a real treat meeting the stars of Rao, Sto-Oa, Sol, etc…How to refuse such priceless invitation?
Rating: ** ( 2 stars )Illustrator: Bill Sienkiewicz
Rating: **** ( 4 stars )Illustrator: Glenn Fabry
Rating: **** ( 4 stars )Illustrator: Frank Quitely
Seven siblings that are each more powerful than gods in their own way make for one rather odd and insane family.
In a way, they all work together to create much of reality.
Without Destiny there could be no dreams or desires.
Without dreams there could be no delirium or despair.
Take one element out, and the others are not quite as effective.As much as I liked seeing their own stories, I much prefer seeing them in the same room.
When they do though very interesting things happen, I would have like to see more of that here.For me this is a good introduction to the characters, which I want to see expanded on.
This one is more in line with the rest of the series, disjointed but interwoven with stories, odd artwork and sometimes painful text.
In other words, part of the classic series.With one caveat.I loved it to death for a slightly different reason than the rest.
I didn't like Despair's nearly as much as I wanted to, but Death and the very young Dream and especially Desire's stories were awesome.Maybe I don't want to have to get out a magnifying glass to read a mostly textual comic.
:)Destruction probably had the most interesting idea-SF story though.
I thought that Sandman was over... how happy am I that there is more? I'm ecstatic! This is absolutely fabulous; I really need more! Death: I really liked this one, but I was slightly confused at first.  Desire: For some reason, I have a sense of déjà vu. Was this story already featured somewhere? Because I would swear that I already read this one.  Dream: It's fascinating that I almost forgot that before Delirium there was Delight, at first I thought that it was a mistake.  Despair: This one wa
I thought that Sandman was over...
how happy am I that there is more?
I'm ecstatic!
This is absolutely fabulous; I really need more!
Death:
I really liked this one, but I was slightly confused at first.
Was this story already featured somewhere?
It's fascinating that I almost forgot that before Delirium there was Delight, at first I thought that it was a mistake.
Despair:
This one was really bizarre!
Great portrait of Despair.
Delirium:
Where the Despair bizarreness went great, this went wrong for me.
It was pretty intriguing, but it was way too short to really develop the story.
I did not find any of them particularly memorable (I had to pick up the volume again to remember exactly what they were about) but my favorites are the one about Death (which features a singularly decadent party hosted by a degenerate 18th century count) and the one about Dream (which takes place during a period anterior to all the other Sandman, in happier days when Destruction was still an active member of the family and Delirium was still known as Delight.)None of these Gaiman tales are equal to the rest of the Sandman opus, but I found the art, if anything, superior to the earlier ten volumes.
4,5Ako se mene pita, Sila se vratio na svoje prijestolje i opet je sve u redu u odnosima fizickih manifestacija metafizickih koncepata :D Konacno mi je sjelo da je Sreca postala Sumanutost (zavoljela sam je tek kasnije u Sandmanu) i kako je uopce doslo do netrpeljivosti izmedu Sna i Strasti.Uvjerljivo najbolji i najdrazi su mi portreti/skice Shrvanosti... Uopce taj koncept s kljucnim cinjenicama o njoj kroz par kratkih prica i kolaza. Skoro da osjecam Slom negdje u nutrini bica svog. Ma mozes je citati na nekoj veceri poezije, nitko nece ni skuziti:) Predivno prevedeno <3
Beautifully illustrated and wonderfully told it is yet another example of why I think so highly of Neil Gaiman.
Each story has its own unique art style.Follow the stories of Death, Desire, Dream, Despair, Delirium, Destruction and Destiny.
I enjoyed the Death, Dream and Desire stories the most-though none of these stories is bad.
The Despair and Delirium stories are rather trippy and reminded me of Grant Morrison's Arkham Asylum-style art.
Some of the stories do shed some light on aspects of the Dream story (why, for example, he doesn't get along with his brother Desire).
4.5 stars! After reading almost all of Neil Gaiman’s fantastic run on the “Sandman” series (to the point where I called the year 2012 “The Year of the Sandman” since I had spent the year reading the Sandman comics), I wanted to read Neil Gaiman’s latest story on the “Sandman” series, “The Sandman: Endless Nights,” even though The Sandman, Vol. 10: The Wake was actually considered the final story arc in the “Sandman” series. “The Sandman: Endless Nights,” which is also a Bram Stoker Award winner
Neil Gaiman has done a brilliant job at writing this volume as we actually get a closer look at not just Dream, but his siblings and I loved the way that Neil Gaiman explored each Endless character in deep detail.
Probably my favorite stories in this volume were “Death and Venice,” “What I’ve Tasted of Desire,” “The Heart of a Star,” and “On the Peninsula” as these stories had the most interesting storylines and really delved into the minds of the characters being presented.
The artwork in this volume, as with the previous volumes, are extremely well done as there are many different artists working on this volume and they include Glenn Fabry, Milo Manara, Miguelanxo Prado, Frank Quitely, P.
As such, your impressions of the story will be greatly affected by the artists, and in the case of Despair (“Fifteen Portraits of Despair”) and Delirium (“Going Inside”), the stories are suitably grim and disorienting, respectively.
In the case of Despair, I just couldn’t understand what the story was about, but the artwork is suitably creepy.My favorite stories were about Death (“Death and Venice”), Desire (“What I’ve Tasted of Desire”), and Destruction (“On the Peninsula”).
There's some great ideas and Death as always steals the show, but it feels like it was rushed.Desire's story is by far the best of the collection.
This is a shame, because I think there could have been a great story about how Destiny, like Gaiman, knows all, and choses that which he opts to share, just as a writer chooses what to write.
This is what I mean when I said I don't think his heart was completely into the writing--none of the stories really push the boundaries the way that Gaiman does when he's in his stride.These are nice tales of the Endless for those who wanted more.
Endless Nights was written years after the Sandman series ended - Gaiman returns his characters and provides a story for each of the 7 Endless.
It's a little more interesting and experimental than what was in the rest of the series - Despair's and Delerium's stories are really noteable in this aspect.
While their stories weren't my favorite (my beloved Delerium was barely in hers!), I spent quite a bit of time just examining and admiring the art.I also enjoyed the peek back in time when Delerium was Delight and Despair was her first aspect of herself.
Hm, vielleicht liegt es daran, dass ich die Sandman-Bücher nicht kenne (es gibt wohl mehrere Bände davon), aber dieses war für mich zum Einen verwirrend, zum Anderen nicht sehr spannend. Klar, die zeichnerische Qualität ist hoch, aber nicht überragend, die Geschichten sind originell, aber nicht aussergewöhnlich. Ein nettes Leseabenteuer für Zwischendurch, aber nicht mehr. Gaaaanz knappe drei Sterne.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
A nice collection featuring each of the siblings in their own chapter. The variety of art was excellent, and most of the stories captured my attention, although I wish that Destiny's chapter had been elaborated on as it was quite short.
So incredibly beautiful.World: The art is good, it's a bit muted compared to the main series but this is still one of the more creative and different books out there.
This entire series is about each of the Endless and it's wonderful, you can't have the world without them and getting to details about them is beautiful.Story: Each issue is well done and dives deep into the character that are the Endless, we get a lot of Dream in the series but here we get all the siblings and it's a wonderful read.
It's good.A strong and beautiful character collection of issues.Onward to the next book!
The first installment, “Death and Venice,” is divided into two narratives: one about a kingdom in Venice whose duke made it so—with magic of some sort—that neither time nor death would touch everyone inside their gates; and one about a pessimistic soldier who comes home to Italy to visit the island where he meets a pretty gothette when he was a boy.
“Less is more”, they always say, and I love how Gaiman can tell the best of stories with just a few set of words.
I’m not sure where in t The Sandman's timeline this fits, but I have a wild guess it’s when Delight transfigures into Delirium for the first time.
This was okay but not really anything special for me.
Each of the Endless gets a short story about themselves and some are definitely better than others.
I think Delirium's was my least favorite just because by her very nature it's hard to piece out what was going on.
Despair's had a very interesting style but ultimately didn't work for me either.
I mostly read it just to finish out the series.
I'm sure if you absolutely love Sandman this will be a great volume for you but I've always been a bit meh about it so this is just more of the same for me.
4 Stars because I really liked it
Mientras los humanos sueñen, desesperen, deseen, deliren, destruyan y mueran, existirán los Eternos.Y Neil Gaiman estará allí para contarnos sus historias.Una obra maestra.
This is wonderful collection of graphic shorts - one for each of the Endless. I particularly enjoyed the darkness of Despair's story.
Each chapter chronicles a tale of the mythic figures, focusing on each in the past, present and future timeline the overall series worked to establish for the better part of nine years.
Morpheus makes his presence known in tale #3, which I also found excellent, as it worked to establish the Lord of Dreams' issues with Desire seen throughout the main series, and further developed the Sandman's place in the larger DCU (bonus points for slight nods to the Green Lantern universe).
SANDMAN: ENDLESS NIGHTS collects the following stories--1.
Death and Venice.
Art by P.
Craig Russell 2.
What I've Tasted Of Desire.
Art by Milo Manara 3.
Dream: The Heart Of A Star.
Art by Miguelanxo Prado 4.
Art by Barron Storey and Dave McKean 5.
Delirium: Going Inside.
Art by Bill Sienkiewicz 6.
Destruction: On the Peninsula.
Art by Glen Fabry 7.
Destiny: Endless Nights.
Art by Frank Quitley.
My favourite story of this collection is also probably the scariest Sandman story ever.
The Fifteen Portraits Of Despair.
The Fifteen Portraits Of Despair.
Whoa!
What a story.
Magical twisted fairy-tales divided into beautifully illustrated episodes. Overwhelming with imagination. Excellent read.
So damn beautiful.Even after the amazing experience with the series, I'm not sure if I'm happy I read it.
But now it's over, the farther I got in the story, the less space for the fantasy left.And I found one thing, next time I decide to buy a book based on its cover I will have to think twice if I want to leave the book its mystery or to read it.It might sound silly but after reading these stories about dreams I'm not so sure.***I realised this after rereading what I'd written: There is a new book by me in Dream's library.
After several years of searching for any Sandman issue, I finally got my hands on this!Sandman is everything you expected from Neil Gaiman, with the added bonus of beautiful illustrations, of which some aren't your typical comic book/graphic novel illustrations, but amazing works of art.
The only bad thing about this book is the fact that I will have to give it back eventually, and one day (when I get some disposable income) I'll get my hands on all the Sandman issues.
I think I might've read the Death short story in another compilation somewhere, but for the most part they were interesting glimpses into the lives of the Endless. However, nothing really stood out as eye-opening and I couldn't even try to read Despair's portion, as I didn't care for the art collage style.
All that is here is for your enjoyment.
Este era el tomo que me faltaba leer para redondear el universo Sandman, más allá de haber leído hace tiempo la serie regular completa.El tomo contiene una historia por cada uno de los Endless, dibujadas por algunos de los mejores artistas trabajando hoy en el mercado comiquero.
Ideal para leer después de haber terminado esa obra maestra que es Sandman.
"Noites Sem Fim" é o retorno de Neil Gaiman (obrigado por existir!) ao universo dos perpétuos (Devaneio, Deleite/Delírio, Desejo, Desespero Destruição, Destino e Morte) após o encerramento da série Sandman.
trata-se de uma coletânea de sete contos - um para cada perpétuo - ilustrada por sete grandes quadrinhistas, como Dave Mckean (Asilo Arkham, Violent Cases, todas as capas maravilhosas da série Sandman, dentre outros inúmeros trabalhos premiados) e o letrista Todd Klein (parceiro de longa data de Neil Gaiman e outros nomes como Allan Moore, Frank Miller e Bill Willingham).
Puede que este haya sido el volumen de Sandman que menos me ha gustado.
Ojo, no quiero decir que no lo haya hecho, sino que ha sido en menor medida a la serie original.Son historias cortas independientes entre sí, cada una correspondiente a uno de los Eternos, y como siempre me ocurre con este formato, unas me han gustado más que otras, siendo la que menos la de Delirio, y eso que me encanta el personaje.
Lo que no se puede discutir es que todos los capítulos tienen esos tintes melancólicos tan característicos de Sandman, que a ratos transmite bastante tristeza.En fin, lo dicho, interesante tomo pero no de mis favoritos.Un saludo,Carol Rodríguez
