https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/313256.Dark_Challenge
4 New Family Stars*Spoilers* Sing for me, cara mia. I love the sound of your voice. It is a miracle. You bring me peace and joy when you sing. You make my body burn as it never has before. Sing for me.-JulianFirst read June 2012 Reread January 18, 2016Reread January 27, 2017Dark Challenge the 5th book in the Dark series by Christine Feehan was a nice read. But for me a little slow which is why it's a 4 star and not 5. Julian and Desari are a very sweet couple and I enjoyed reading about Desari's
Though a few things happened in this book for the most part it was a more laid back easy read and focused more on Julian and Desari's relationship.You seem to forget I am no fledgling but your equal.
If only we have the next few moments together, everything that came before was worth the time we have had."-DesariI really loved getting to know the members of Desari's family Darius, Dayan, Barack, and Syndil.
But to Barack credit he didn't know Syndil was his lifemate, They didn't get raised with other Carpathian's.
Good choice of words, lifemate."-Desari and Julian["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Finally, a heroine in this series that doesn't make me want to slap her on her mouth with a glass frog, repeatedly.
Instead of throwing childish tantrums to prove her "adult" status, Desari talks and explains like a logical human being.
And miracle of miracles, the hero actually listens and agrees, instead of beating his chest hair in a manly way and saying "I know better, obey me silly female".
Someone should tell Fenaan not to write them.
At this point, she could just write "julian inserted his point A into Desari's slot B" and it would be better than the flowery repetitive weirdness she spews.
I thought for sure at some point she would give an inch to Julian on her career or spending every waking minute with her annoying family.
I did not like the burden she placed on Julian and her family because she was so self centered.
I was confused by Darius and did not like any other member of her family.
If it is cheapened and they are allowed to coexist for centuries either not knowing or caring then it has all been bullshit.
Of course I think I need to read a couple more books to figure out their story.
Me gustó, es de los buenos de la serie.
Destaca porque en esta ocasión el conflicto del protagonista no radica en convencer y conquistar a su compañera cuando la descubre, sino que por el contrario, su relación comienza a surgir espontánea y fluidamente desde su primer encuentro.
El conflicto viene de la mano de aceptar a la familia de su compañera -un grupo de carpatianos que hace siglos se separó de su especie y no conoce las costumbres de éstos-, así como de su lucha interna con la marca que le hizo un vampiro siendo un niño y que lo obligó a separarse de los suyos.
Solo me hubiera gustado que al final, la autora nos hubiera regalado el reencuentro de Julian con su propia familia.
It was nice seeing the female portrayed as someone with gifts that match her lifemate's.This is the story of Julian Savage (Book #3-Aidan's twin brother) who has been a solitary hunter for nearly his entire existence.
Raised by her incredibly strong-willed brother, Darius, with 4 others who escaped the massacre, Desari has no knowledge of lifemates or the ways of the Carpathians.
Targeted by the human hunters who are trying to capture, study and destroy the Carpathians, Julian must protect her from both the humans and the Undead Vampires who are trying to claim her.This book progresses the overall arc of the books exponentially.

2nd time reading - this time by audiobook.Finally a woman that doesn't fight fate! I loved how she saw how she felt and wasn't scared of it or blaming him for her feelings. I forgot how much I enjoyed this book.
And, I don't just say that because she was my very first adult paranormal read...way back when.
This, Dark Challenge, is a novel that was included in those "way back when" reads and I enjoyed it just as much now as I did in years past.
Dark Challenge is set for release June 26, 2018.My Rating: 4 starsWritten by: Christine FeehanSeries: Carpathian Novels Sequence in Series: Book 5)Mass Market Paperback: 400 pagesPublisher: Avon; Reprint edition Publication Date: June 26, 2018ISBN-10: 0062019406ISBN-13: 978-0062019400Genre: Paranormal RomanceAmazon: https://www.amazon.com/Dark-Challenge...Barnes & Noble: https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/dark...Itunes: https://itunes.apple.com/us/book/dark...For more reviews check out Tome Tender's Book Blog or find us on Facebook.
Love reading this as a audiobook, just can't get enough of the narrator. Good way to end the day.
Esta es la tercera vez que lo leo y me ha encantado como siempre, estoy deseando ver a los personajes en las siguientes historias.Repasemos un poco, Julian Savage es un cazador carpatiano experimentado que guarda un secreto oscuro que lo hace sentirse sin el derecho a tener lo que le ha deparado el destino, a pesar de todo es inevitable que se sienta sumamente imposibilitado de dejar de lado a su otra mitad, porque es la luz para su oscuridad, lo que lo hace enfrentarse a sus dudas y sentimientos constantemente.En cuanto a Desari, es de las primeras carpatianas ancianas que aparece dentro de la saga, y eso nos va descubriendo las posibilidades que implican los futuros personajes que aparezcan, junto con Sybill demuestran que no solo los machos pueden llegar a ser tan poderosos, lo que da un plus a esta raza creada por la autora.Por otro lado, descubrir a todo un grupo familiar del cual no se sabía su existencia es algo sorprendente, ya quiero ver los reencuentros familiares, que darán de qué hablar.
From previous books we learned about Julian Savage who was Aidan’s twin brother, who was featured in Dark Gold.
Julian's story is especially interesting because we are introduced to a whole new family of Carpathians.
I loved Desari's story - finally a Carpathian woman who's just as powerful (in some ways more) than her life-mate!
This alone, made the whole story refreshing, but I also liked the family unit, the club scene, and the dark shadow within Julian.
They allowed the male protagonists to be TOO overbearing, TOO arrogant, and TOO obnoxious.Good book ;)
Great paranormal, romantic suspense. Julian's story is especially interesting because we are introduced to a whole new family of Carpathians. The secondary story becomes just as interesting as the primary. With the total Carpathian series being a definite formula, this twist added all the interest needed to keep the reader riveted. The steamy scenes were also more thoughtful and easily skippable for those who prefer.
Entretenidísimo, como todos los de la saga. Lo que más me ha gustado de esta historia es su protagonista, por fin una carpatiana antigua que tiene poderes y que puede defenderse.La única pega que le pongo a la saga, es que parece que Christine Feehan tiene alergía a los encuentros familiares. Me encantaría leer como interactúan entre ellos después de tantos años separados.
Centuries of hunting the undead had left Julian Savage ready to face the dawn, he only had one more task to perform for his prince.
Arriving at the concert hall, Julian was amazed to find that even the security at the front door seemed to feel his presence.
After seeing and hearing Desari, the color and light and emotions that flooded him left him unaware of the assassins in the hall.
The creativity of this book is higher, it is not just the same tortured male meets the reluctant to be a lifemate woman.
I felt so sorry for him at his forced separation from his twin brother because of the vampire threats.
Julian had such a great sense of humor and he didn't have the overbearing possessiveness that the other males in the previous books had.
Desari was great too.
I also loved Darius.
The bromance between Julian and Darius was very interesting to read.
We met other Carpathians who were lost from their home in this book and Darius and Desari were among them.
They were just to long and too frequent it almost felt repetitive.
I'm looking forward to reading about Darius in the next book.
Dark Challenge is the fifth book in this series by Christine Feehan.
It was a little slow but a good book.
Julian and Desari are such a great couple.
I loved reading about Desari family.
Do not waste your energy attempting the impossible.Julian was a chilled kind of guy.
He had to learn the hard way about women listening and obeying him.
He had to learn to compromise with his lifemate.
Well I could go on and on about this book but I’m ready to read the next book in this series.Thank you Christine Feehan for another great book in your dark series.
Not as good but I continue my journey through the series.
Everything just happened so fast.“You are so incredibly beautiful, Desari, you turn me inside out.”“I want you to remember that when I do something you object to.”It sounded like she was already thinking of their future together when she said earlier that it wouldn’t work and it would be temporary.“And I changed into jeans for you,” Desari admitted.
I didn’t understand how there were visible notes dancing in the air, and that couples with sentences like “she sang of peace and togetherness” and it was just a little too cheesy or something to me.“The last thing was for her lifemate to go berserk on her.”They usually spoke so refined and eloquent, and she goes and says berserk.
(And that's a good thing seeing as I like her writing.) I happened to be notified about the re-release of Dark Challenge, and it coincided with where I was in the Carpathians series, so I jumped at the chance for a review copy.
I can't wait to get to his story, as he is very close to the edge, much like Julian.I voluntarily read and reviewed an advanced copy of this re-release version of the book, which was provided to me by the publisher, Avon.
While I adored Julian and his transition into a mated man, It was even better to see him struggling against a mean and strong opponent.
Although Desari is the true reason I loved this installment way more than all the others.
Desari was already Carphatian, hundreds of years old, with her own will and powers, and that is the reason this mating was the most interesting and intriguing one.
Every step of it was a challenge and I had an amazing time reading every page.Another aspect I adored was getting to know this new family of exiled Carphatians.
Each and every new character was so interesting and complex in its own way...
after reading on in the series and getting the repetitive sex and domineering male thoughts and actions, I would dock this one star for the snore worthy sex.
I would change it but I would want to read the whole series to readjust all the ratings so that they match.
She is one of the first strong females that you see in this series.
She continues the strong females (not remembering Fire but all the ones after that) until Dark Melody, which actually comes back to one of the males in this family group.
I'm really liking the new group.Re-read December 31, 2014
Dark Challenge is another well deserved 5 star book by Christine Feehan.
The story of Julian Savage who has been sent out by the Prince of the Carpathian people Mikhail Dubrisky and an his 2nd in command Gregori Daratrazanoff to locate and protect a women Desari whom they believe to be a human with Physic gifts.
Not only are they Carpathians but 2 of them are the long long lost brother and sister to Gregori Darius and Desari.
What a surprise that is in store for all the Carpathian people and for us lovers of The Dark series because they are featured in there own stories and through out the other 24 books in the series.
This was a great romance story and loved the relationship between Desari and Julian who are both two strong Carpathian Ancients.
But they all have strong strengths in them and obey what ever Darius tells them as their official leader not knowing there were other Carpathians out there that still existed and Darius had to learn everything by trial-and-error.
I also loved that finally there was a woman who is as strong with her own powers as a Carpathian male and took no crap from anyone.
I also loved seeing Julian finally finding happiness and finding a true family.
Dark Challenge is book 5 in Dark series by Christine Feehan. From previous books we learned about Julian Savage who was Aidan’s twin brother. Desari is Gregori’s younger Carpathian sister who can sing. She is an ancient, but was thought to have been killed a long time ago.Since I’m a fan of strong female leads, Desari was not a  “why are you doing this to me gal”  as previous books. The intolerable Carpathian Warrior male dominance made me a little weary.   Get over it already . Desari’s charact
From previous books we learned about Julian Savage who was Aidan’s twin brother.
as previous books.
For this reason, I liked this book more than some of the previous ones.Julian plays the role of ancient emotionless Carpathian without a lifemate.
Oh, just because Gregori asked Julian to find and protect her didn’t factor into the equation at all.As in all Carpathian stories, there’s lots of life saving, shifting, intrigue, battles, and plots against our heroes and heroines to keep the excitement up.I look forward to reading Dark Fire, the next book in the series to see the next lifemating :P

This one was really good. I loved Desari's story - finally a carpathian woman who's just as powerful (in some ways more) than her lifemate! The only thing that dissapointed me was the storyline between Barack and Syndil. What happened there? It seemed to me that they were lifemates but they couldn't work through Syndil's pain. And it was never explained... I don't understand. I hope there is more to their story later on in the series.
3.5 stars
&then keeps on teasing him where the guys can hear.wth?says shes startin2 luv him after a few days of knowin him.if i dint no better,id say i was readin a nora roberts book w/the characters &their fast feelings.julian trained w/the vampire becuz he was young&handsome.duz ne1 else find that weird?
the characters just keep bringin up things,like his twin brother he hasnt seen n 4ever,so u think feehan will have them meet up.other authors wud prob.do that,because its a book &it shud go sumwhere.
I kinda power read the first 4 books but now that I'm on the 5th I am realizing they are all kinda the same.
I believe this author is very talented and could mix the romance part up a little bit if she wanted to, rather than it being same romance in all the books.
I realize she gave herself a bit of trouble there when she created the lifemate situation.
But even if she made the female completely willing to be obedient and madly in love at first sight, or the male realizing it's his lifemate but not wanting to commit it would make it feel different than the others.
He worked for Gregori and Mikhail killing vampires and protecting the innocent.
the first time he heard her sing he saw colors.
Beautiful colors that he hadn’t seen in centuries.
He found his life mate and had to battle both the vampires and the human society to protect Desari and her family of misfits.
I loved all the characters in this book, especially Syndil and Barack.
It was an entertaining read with scrappy characters that were willing to give up their lives for the others.
My only complaint is that Gregori and/or Aidan did not make a cameo in this book.
