https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/778667.The_Big_Fisherman
There is no doubt that Jesus Christ worked very hard, tirelessly to spread His message of love, a love that would unite all peoples of the World we live in.
Crowds of people thronged to hear him, leaving behind their lives, discarding their jobs just to hear this message of love and peace.
You see they lived under the powerful heel of the Roman Empire, longing for deliverance as any enslaved people would.
I insist ‘That’s there but the ‘Kingdom of Heaven’ is the message of Christ.’ A thought strikes me, we were given a brand new world, a wondrous world, full of amazingly beautiful animals, plants, rocks, rivers, beaches and what did we do?
This companion and pseudo-prequel to Douglas’ best-seller  The Robe  chronicles the ministry of Jesus from His calling of the first inauspicious Apostles to the Church that rose and grew so rapidly in the first few years following His death, resurrection, and withdrawal from the world.We see these events unfold through the eyes of Simon, known to history as St. Peter, the Big Fisherman himself, who was such a majestic and comforting presence in The Robe. He shares point-of-view duties with Fara/
chronicles the ministry of Jesus from His calling of the first inauspicious Apostles to the Church that rose and grew so rapidly in the first few years following His death, resurrection, and withdrawal from the world.We see these events unfold through the eyes of Simon, known to history as St. Peter, the Big Fisherman himself, who was such a majestic and comforting presence in The Robe.
Meanwhile, Fara, under the alias Esther, seeks refuge in Simon’s mother-in-law’s house, and gets a day job as a maid at Antipas’ palace, where she hopes to eventually carry out her oath.Then Jesus calls Simon to follow him, and the miserable man only feels right in the presence of the Carpenter, so he obeys Him. His brother Andrew and his friends James and John soon join them.
This is the second of his books that I have read and I would gladly pick up another.
He makes historical and biblical characters real, full of emotions, anger, frustration, doubt, fear, yearnings, hopes...all the things that they likely dealt with but we don't give them when we pick up a history book.
I find myself immersed in his world, and then thinking about it when I put the book down.
I love it when a fiction book is an enjoyable read, but sticks with me in positive ways after I'm done.
This was an amazing, inspirational historical fiction centered around Simon Peter as he hears of Jesus, initially rejecting what had been said of him.
So when Jesus says to follow him, he does and we are taken through the story of Jesus out into the countryside where thousands follow to hear his teachings.
We go with Simon who has now become Peter into Jerusalem where he fears for Jesus and denies him but overcomes his shame when Jesus returns and takes on a mantle of gravitas spreading the Word even as far as Rome where he ultimately is put to death.
The book has lots of other quite interesting characters - some historical and others fictional.
Because it's an enjoyable book, with a great story, and lovely characters you'd want to give it a good review.
It is not true to scripture; the liberties the author takes in making the Bible fit his story are just too many, and so ruin what is a good story.
Especially toward the end Douglas just veers off the biblical account too radically to make this a truly good book.
So while it is a "good" read - it is not a helpful book considering it's material.
Douglas did a a fantastic job of making Simon Peter my friend. I want to meet him.
I see comments in the reviews that this doesn't stick to the scriptures - why should it? It's a novel about the birth of Christianity not a Christian novel. I take more exception to the liberties taken with historical fact. I first read this aged 8 and since also but not for over 30 years. Like my comments on the companion volume The Robe the language is dated, no great problem - but it is not the book I remembered. It is I who have changed and become more exacting; this remains a good read, however.
I have conflicting feelings regarding this novel. It's a great book in itself - obviously researched, and a good retelling of the story of Simon Peter, one of Jesus' followers. The characters are believable and understandable. Unfortunately I have two issues with the book as a whole. Firstly, why bring in the various different Arabian characters - as the parts concerning them was interesting but didn't really lead anywhere. And secondly, a lot of it didn't really fit with what I know of the Bible.Overall okay, if you're reading it for a good story.
While I loved this book, I had a hard time focusing on it for long periods of time due to the writing being a little dry. I especially liked how the Romans weren't all painted at bad guys. All in all, this was a really fun really good read
Simon ontmoet Jezus tegen de achtergrond van het leven in Palestina tijdens de Romeinse bezetting.
Simon is is een visser op het meer van Galilea, maar gaat Jezus volgen als discipel.
Simon die de naam Petrus heeft gekregen, wat Rotssteen betekend, verloochend Jezus uiteindelijk drie keer.Waardering/meningEen apart verhaal waar ik heel lang over heb moeten nadenken over hoeveel sterren ik het moest geven.
Ik hoop dat ik het boek nog een keer kan lezen.
Dit komt ook terug in een aantal van zijn boeken.
In 1929 brengt Douglas zijn eerste boek uit "Magnificent Obsession".
Douglas is a master at using research to build a world for his books.
I think my favorite aspect of this book was the relationship he depicted between Jesus and the apostles.
A lot of times, even though the Bible is clear that the apostles misunderstood Him, we as readers don't understand the gulf between the apostles and Jesus.
Jesus was so alone and completely misunderstood.
His followers didn't ever understand Him until after He was gone and they were given the Holy Spirit on the Pentecost.
Thank goodness!Great book.
A story about the disciple Peter before and after meeting Jesus.
The first sixth of the book develops a story of the ages-old conflict between the Jews and the Arabs.
As I was reading it, I was rather confused about how it connected with Peter and the other disciples.
Reading this, I found myself wondering what it was like living in the days when Jesus walked the earth.
We have 2000 years of history to look back on - but what was it like at the time hearing about this prophet and the teachings and the miracles.
Wow, this book took me a long time to read...3 1/2 months...but it was really good and worth the time it took.
It takes the story of Simon the fisherman and how he meets Jesus and becomes Peter.
It also has a couple of historical fiction side stories which are interlaced with Peter's story.
This author also wrote "The Robe" which is one of my favorite books.
Also, Jesus' robe from the first book plays a small role in this.
This book was really well done and I will add it to my list of highly recommended reading.
Disappointing. The story was interesting enough but Douglas took such huge liberties with the historical facts that it spoiled the story for me. The Robe was done so excellently -- mostly centering on the fictional story with only some believable conjectures about the biblical characters that made it delightful. But some of the fictionalized biblical events in The Big Fisherman totally denied, in effect, the events themselves. This was Douglas's last book and he should have quit while he was ahead after The Robe
The writer uses considerable poetic license, so if you're a stickler for everyone adhering to 100% fact when writing anything to do with Jesus, you might be offended by this book. It doesn't, however, claim to be a historic document; just an imaginative penning about life in the time of our Savior and what really happened, could have happened, or simply what-the-author-thought-would-have-been-cool if it had happened. I enjoyed it a lot.
Probably 2.5 stars. I enjoyed the story, especially Fara and Voldi. I also liked the links to The Robe. But the inaccuracies in regard to scriptures bothered me and ultimately I couldn't overlook the liberties taken. Sure, it's fiction. But when based on historical events, I prefer to have history accurately portrayed. And I felt the storyline for Fara and Voldi just dropped after a great build-up.
The story of Peter and how he becomes an apostle. Also Fara and Voldi, two Arabians. I liked this, but not as much as the Robe. I did enjoy references here and there to the characters in the Robe. Overall, I found it slow going, and I just wanted to finish so I could read something more exciting. I couldn't agree with Douglas' interpretations of some of the Biblical happenings. I think I would have enjoyed more of Fara and her life.
This and the Robe are classic's. The story is about Jesus and his life, its creative and brilliantly written – This and the Robe are masterful novels that bring the characters to life and leaves you with many deeper emotions. As with the Robe it brings in a time of history that is alive and fascinating. It’s not a religious book it’s a wonderful story about a man that changed our planets history.
I recently re-read this book that I've loved for years. It's historical fiction, delving into the political and cultural climate of Israel at the time of Christ, in particular looking into the person of the Apostle Peter. I also just love the way that Douglas writes - this guy uses every word in my vocabulary to paint pictures for you. Enjoy!
The big value of this book is to make alive and human-like people who lived when Jesus walked on Earth. What I did not like about it was deviation from the Gospel and historical truth. The plot of Fara could have been omitted without any harm to the story of Peter. It took up too many pages and added nothing to book's message.
The big fisherman is Simon Peter, apostle of Christ. It tells of his conversion and growth as Christ's first apostle. It also follows a daughter of an Arabian princess and a Jewish Prince who were forced to make an alliance in the hope of saving Jerusalem from further Roman siege. The characters are real and one grows to care for them.
Fictional yet insightful journey of a man with humble beginnings to one with lasting impact in the history of Christianity. It gave a realistic, humane, and sad outlook of life of St. Peter his growth, challenges, pains until his end. Not a book I would choose on regular basis, but I am glad that I bought it in an exhibit -out of curiosity- many years ago when I was in my early teens.
Very exciting romantic action in historical context. Train of events after the disintegration of a marriage between daughter of Aretas of Arabia with the son of Herod. Their daughter swears to avenge the wrongs inflicted on her mother. The Big Fisherman is Simon, later Peter, who ends his days in Rome. History merging with fiction.
This book follows Douglas's book The Robe. The Robe follows what happens to the soldier who gets Christ's robe after his crucifiction. This book takes place before that. This book is about Simon (Peter) and his story as a fisherman and follower of Christ. It is fact and fiction. A good book, but I think The Robe was a better book. Still a very good read.
GREAT book! Interesting take on Peter's life just before meeting Jesus and thereafter. Easy story to read and get into right away. You walk away with a new perspective on the way Christians lived in the days of Jesus and just after. I highly recommend!
Re-read. First half OK; second half goes pretty far afield from scripture. Many anachronisms, like silk hose, policemen, basements (!), & misplaced expressions, like calling John the Beloved "Johnny," & Thaddeus "Thad." Found it distracting & just skimmed the last quarter of the tale.
Read it when I was a kid along with the Bobbsey Twins. Lasting memory of JC meeting Peter beside his boat in Galilee. Remember nothing else bar the upside down Crucifixion. Childs mind, gory details etc. M
I don't know which one I enjoyed the most, The Big Fisherman or The Robe. Both of them were life changing books. I think this is one of the best descriptions of Jesus: "Everyone else is a body with a soul. He is a soul with a body"
This book is epic. They just don't make em like this anymore. My only frustration was that the book jumped into many different character's and their stories but it felt a little choppy that way, and the characters story didn't flow in and out of the story in a consistent way.
well written. hard to get into. excellent character development
