https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/668953.Understanding_Poetry
I decided to read this book because I generally claim to dislike poetry.
After reading this book I still can’t say I’m a huge fan of poetry.
However, I got more from this book than instruction.I was able to identify my main barrier to appreciating poetry, namely, that I read too fast.
When reading novels I tend to barrel through sentences and paragraphs absorbing the main ideas, character descriptions and plot without lingering over every sentence.
I received a lot of pleasure from their "teaching" chapters, most especially, "How Poems Come About: Intention and Meaning" (Appendix A), "Metrics" (Appendix B), and "Poetry As a Way of Saying." Like a standard school anthology, Brooks and Penn Warren include questions after most of the poems.
Perrine's Sound & Sense is another anthology that does this but only in the "teacher's edition" and not with the same intellectual sharpness.I have not read every poem in this book; I'm still working my way through them (there are 594 pages here).
As a result of adding irony and paradox to a work, instead of simply applying an ordinary meaning to a particular linguistic statement, irony opens the gateway to a variety of interpretations to the statement, and it is this which makes poetry and tragedy enjoyable to the reader.
It is the co-existence of two opposing forces that are metaphorically represented, that exist in such a way that they create harmony like the ying and the yang in the popular harmonizing symbol.An ironical and even paradoxical level of meaning produces the wholeness and integrity of a literary work.
Just like the kite paradoxically cannot do without its tail, neither can a literary masterpiece do without its dose of irony.
Şiiri anlamak ne kolay ya. Ehe.
This textbook was around the house as I used other textbooks, and I would page through it, though I did not read it cover to cover.I always liked Penn Warren, and I liked this: I would like to find it again.
This is the book from which we finally learned something about prosody, after having been allowed to graduate college without a single English course. Enjoyable.
I read this book not because I had the faintest hope for ever understanding such a complicated matter as poetry, but because I thought that the selection of poems in the book would be sufficiently interesting and beautiful o enjoy some reading without having to dig it out too much.
I am not totally disappointed by the author's selection, but I recon now that this book is more intended for students and teachers of "serious" literary matters, rather than for an amateur poetry reader.Here are the cover, editorial info and the first page of the preface from the book I read.
A I said, and I repeat it now: I really tried to understand, and I think I did a little...
Great teacher resource or reference for people who enjoy good poetry and good criticism of poetry as well. Also recommend for college students who are required to critique/explicate poetry; this anthology will give you excellent examples of poetry explications using different poetic devices and techniques.
I knew this in an earlier edition co-edited with Robert Penn Warren which was used in my high school English class. Good on the bookshelf for its application of New Criticism in the 1960s. If you just want an anthology of American and English poetry this has less poetry per page than one and more commentary.
Understanding Poetry provides a good anthology for those who wish to read a variety of poets. The analysis by Brooks is helpful to understand the methodology of the New Critics, and each section guides the reader in a holistic approach to critical thought concerning each poem.
Goodreads doesn't have my book, but this is the closest version. Mine is the THIRD rather than the FOURTH Edition, and both Cleanth Brooks and Robert Penn Warren are acknowledged as editors / compilers. Perhaps Warren was not around by the time Brooks did the 4th Edition on his own.
This huge academic book covers all types of poetry from all time periods.
