https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13162.When_the_Wind_Blows
Patterson introduced me to the world of Crime-mystery-thriller novels, so when I saw this months ago I bought it in an instant without even reading the synopsis at the back.
I was a huge fan of Maximum Ride then, and I'm sure I enjoyed the series as a whole.
All I can say is that I can't believe I'm reading the prequel to the series that I loved when I was younger.Frannie and Kit were the adult main character in this novel.

When the Wind Blows (When the Wind Blows, #1), James Pattersonتاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیستم ماه دسامبر سال 2015 میلادیعنوان: زمانی که باد بوزد - داستانی در باره ی تولید انبوه انسان؛ اثر: جیمز پاترسون؛ مترجم: مرتضی مدنی نژاد؛ تهران، هیرمند، 1382؛ در 456 ص؛ شابک: 9646974872؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی قرن 20 مفرانی اونیل، دامپزشک جوانی ست که دارای استعدادی خداداده است.
فرانی در برابر کشفی شگفت آور در جنگلی که نزدیک به بیمارستان حیوانات و متعلق به خود او است قرار میگیرد.
پس از آن، یکی از ماموران اف.بی.آی در آستانه ی درب منزلش ظاهر میشود و ….
This was a surprisingly different/ better book for James Patterson, an author I read a long time ago because my parents enjoyed his work for a while. Therefore I picked it up desperate for a book to read and quickly noticed that I enjoyed it more than his usual work. I haven't read any of the other books in this series, though.
Something blows alright. I struggled to finish this book and by the time I did finish I wanted several hours of my life back. Too many loose ends. Reads like it was written on autopilot.
The concept was good, but Patterson's writing style just didn't do it for me, it seems very hokey at times and the characters Frannie & Kit seemed flat, rather lame romance weaved in there that i could have done without.
I WANTED to like Frannie & KIt but they just didn't add to the story, in fact they were a distraction that really wasn't pulled off very well.
I'm starting to wonder why Patterson is such a popular author, I'm thinking perhaps his earlier works were better.
Perhaps, I should try one of those older books.
Someday I will try one of his earlier books.
Strange but enjoyable and entertaining! This book Isn't your Alex Cross, Michael Bennett or Women's Murder Club you are used to reading. It is more fantasy than mystery or thriller,but loved it and looking forward to the second book in the series- THE LAKE HOUSE!.
When James Patterson came up with the idea for When The Wind Blows, he probably bragged to all of his friends. When he finished writing the prologue, he probably knew he had a masterpiece in the works.And when he completed the book, all stunning 416 pages, he probably bragged to his friends about his masterpiece.What an amazing book. Flawless in every aspect, and throughouly enticing.
I must surmise that even the combined powers of Dickens, Poe, Kafka or the most literate modern storytellers could not bend Patterson into writing a competent tale should they slap him a thousand times in the face with their own manuscripts.The plot is an absolute mess having to do with the secretive genetic manipulation of a little girl and the two protagonists who find themselves tangled up in the whole scheme and whose mission becomes to free the girl from her experimental captivity.
This, most definitely, was not a hit.I've read a few of his other books, mostly the ones meant for children and young adults, so I wasn't really surprised by the caliber of language.
However, this book is supposed to be for adults and still, he has a pedestrian way of telling the story.
What should have been an interesting, pulse accelerating story, turns into something slightly boring just because of the way he tells it.
Not only does the perspective thing make the story clunky, his sentences are just sub par.
This is my first James Patterson book. Loved it. Quick read. Loads of action. Lots of children. Crazy scientists messing with DNA. These kids can fly. You will like it!
This is the one that started it all! The very first time we meet Max, a wonderful mutant with wings! Patterson used such a great name he couldn't give it up for the YA series...great suspense, and the adults were compelling.
This review is a first for me, in that it is my first ever book review, and that it is of my first ever James Patterson novel.
My reading of this book came about by accident; I have demolished every novel on my bookshelf.
What followed was a dull plot, flat characters and general silliness that was almost desperately justified with links to the genetic enhancement inJurassic Park.It was only after I had finished reading that I realised that When the Wind Blows was written as an adult sequel to Patterson's Maximum Ride series for young adults.
It is similar to Maximum Ride, but not at the same time.
She's not sure who murdered him, but when Kit Harrison, an FBI agent, shows up at her vet hospital with an interesting case, things start going horribley wrong.
Then, Frannie meets Max, an extrodinary girl with extrodinary powers.
Max recently escaped from the School, the lab were she lived, and knows of a horrible plan that the scientist want to fufill.
It's up to Frannie, Kit, and Max to stop them before it's too late.
D'altra parte il sogno di volare è insito in ognuno di noi...Ma siamo veramente sicuri che si tratti di mera fantasia?
Siamo sicuri che, sotto sotto, non ci sia un po' di insana verità?
Non voglio pensarci...
Voglio scacciare questo tarlo e vedere questo romanzo solo come puro intrattenimento.
Non proprio un thriller, in ogni caso, anche se delitti ce ne sono e le indagini riconducono ai fatti di cui sopra.
Però - ripeto - qualche leggero brivido me l'ha fatto venire...E - tra tinte così fosche - non poteva mancare un po' di "rosa", naturalmente, con una storia (pare seria) tra i due personaggi principali.
GREAT BOOK, JIM SAYS this book is not the beginning of MAXIMUM OVERRIDE SERIES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE BUT 'I DISAGREE', since the characters in this book were scientifically mutated humans and the Maximum ride series really are he same thing, BOTH THIS BOOK and the MAX series are great..... Give it a read.... I Loved it when I read this and was mad cause there was no book two but.. 10 years later low and behold the maximum ride series it out... Any way Great reads...
Da qui inizia una rocambolesca avventura, un vero e proprio thriller con assassinii nuovi e vecchi tutti collegati a questa ragazzina, di nome Max, geneticamente modificata che è stata allevata in una "scuola", non meglio identificata.
La capacità immensa di Patterson di tenermi attaccata alle pagine resiste anche in questo romanzo, dove i protagonisti, nel tentativo sia di capire cosa sta succedendo e di salvare Max dai suoi inseguitori diventano comprimari, lasciando la scena al sogno più grande dell'uomo: volare.
In realtà, chi creò Max, voleva aumentare la speranza di vita degli esseri umani, ma tant'è...
Da questo romanzo, James Patterson ha DOVUTO, visto il successo di Max @ company, creare una nuova serie: Maximum Ride.
Bila serial Maximum Ride diceritakan dari sudut pandang si tokoh utama Max. Maka di When the wind Blow bercerita dari tiga sudut pandang yaitu Frannie O'Neil, Kit Harisson dan Max. Kalau di Maximum Ride bercerita tentang petualangan Max maka di When the wind Blows sudut pandang cerita lebih banyak bercerita dari sudut pandang Frannie sang dokter hewan.Inti cerita buku ini adalah misi penyelamatan Frannie terhadap Maximum si gadis burung hasil rekayasa genetic para ilmuan dan usaha Kit Harisson si anggota FBI senior untuk menguak konspirasi pembunuhan dokter-dokter berbakat yang dicurigai merupakan anggota perkumpulan ilmuan illegal yang melakukan percobaan genetic terhadapa manusia.
The following review was written when I was 12 years old:When I read this book, one of the first things I noticed was that the flow of the story seemed somewhat confusing or erratic because it is told from four different points of view.
I think the author wrote the story this way to try to narrate different events happening at the same time.
Lastly, the experiments themselves don’t seem like they could happen in real life.While reading When the Wind Blows, I realized that the character I like the most is Frannie.
To my disappointment, the back blurb made this book out to be more intriguing than it actually was.
Modern-day laboratory chimeras (I think this book came out around the time of the tv show, Dark Angel--similar themes) that are grown and manipulated inside unknowing mothers-to-be.
Essentially, a girl (who has wings!) from the project escapes and is on the run in the wilderness of Colorado.
A wayward FBI agent and a local vet team up to discover the truth of the murders and events that seem to tie back to this girl.
There are apparently more books following this story, but I won't be reading them.
Alright, this book was AMAZING!
I love books about the future of genetic manipulation, and especially how it could possibly pertain to human research (even though its rather far-fetched at the moment).
This book was the best one I've read so far in that vein.
Plus, the characters are really endearing, the plot is amazing and very twisty, and the writing style keeps you engaged for the entire book - there were no "slow parts." This is the first Patterson book I've ever read, and I've got to say, I think I'm hooked.
I'll definitely be trying a few more of his books.
I would definitely recommend this book to any and all of my friends!
This is 'fast food fiction.' Like a McDonald's burger it goes down easy, you know what you're going to get and it is pleasant but forgettable.
He goes for the mass market.
I found his style breezy and lean, his two or three page chapters easy for frequent stops and starts-- very handy no doubt for bored commuters who bring a book along for the ride.
Style is reminiscent of another big selling author, Michael Crichton, with fast action plot twists, and the usual mix of sexual attraction, mano to mano fisticuffs, gunshots and a generally happy ending.Characters were a bit on the cardboard cutout side, but not bad.
I love Max and her story but something doesn't ring right in this adult spin-off of the series. The adults characters sound wrong somehow. Both main adults characters are competent professionals but the way the act/talk (are written) is off.I don't remember feeling this reading the YA series so maybe James Patterson is better at writing YA, where all his characters sound right.At least for me it looks like it.2 stars only because I previously loved the characters and story. Otherwise, as quality writing goes, this one is a miss.
I am always excited to dig into a new book by James Patterson. I have enjoyed his writing very much over the years...whether it is a gritty suspense novel or a heartfelt romance.A story about genetic engineering gone awry piqued my interest. Medical thrillers are one of my favorite themes. However, this one just didn't grab me... and when it was over I was ready to be done. I don't think I'll pursue anything else in this particular series.
This book was a bit extreme and uninteresting to me, but I think it could make a good TV series with a few tweaks. I liked the concept and some of the characters. A decent read for adult audiences who like science fiction and drama. Did not like all the animals and babies that were killed throughout the book though.
I loved reading this book this book isn’t like Patterson’s normal murderous books it was really enjoyable to read. I would definitely recommend this book if your interested in mystery and a bit of science. This book was definitely full of surprises and I am definitely going to read the next book.
Oh, and the writer completely missed having a thing happen after beating the 'this is going to happen because the puzzle pieces are freaking marked' (view spoiler)[the vet never actually looked at the girl's bullet wound or patched it up, despite how often the injury was mentioned (although never proving a hinderance), that it was a doctor/vet that discovered her, AND THAT THERE WAS AN ACTUAL PHYSICAL (not that the vet did anything but get a girl naked and gawk).
I did like the premise, and did not read about ghostwriters until after I had finished the book and noting my review comments.
I've wanted to read this series for a long time mainly because the main girl's name is Maximum, which is the same as my name.
I can't think of anyone else real or fictional that shares that name, so for me, I always felt a small connection to the story through that despite never reading it.
And despite nailing child characters like Max, I think the writer plays off the nievity of smaller children a bit too much for plot convinces like with the children Max met or with Michael (You'll know what I mean when you read it.
Regardless, I'm excited to read The Lakehouse and eventually the Maximum Ride series.
I read this because it's where Patterson got the idea for his Maximum Ride series, which holds a very special place in my heart, and I have to say I was a bit disappointed.Things I didn't:The way Franny's body is described, it was gross and made my skin crawl.
You would think there would be more important things on their minds like surviving, what's going to happen to the kids, whether the company is going to get away with all the crap they've done.I wasn't a huge fan of the narrator.Things I did like:The description of what exactly made Max bird like other than her wings (in Maximum Ride they only have wings), she has feather down her legs that work as a tail feather, she would lay eggs instead of giving live birth.The epilogue, it was very heart touching.
So many times while reading this book I got lost in the details and forgot I was reading, because it truly felt like I was watching a movie in my mind! The book’s details were gruesome to read at times, but I think this is one of James Patterson’s best books! I’m so pleased he mostly writes series, as I can’t wait to read the next!
