https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/480034.The_Wishing_Chair_Again
This was my first Enid Blyton book and the first long story I read, which made me start reading novels on my own.
Enid Blyton wrote books that could set childrens imaginations on a whirlwind adventure and give them a love of reading from a young age.
As a child reading this book I was whisked off to adventures to fantastic lands and visiting lands like the land of goodies where you could eat everything( houses etc, made of cake) fly towards rainbows and meet interesting characters all from the safety of under my duvet with my torch.
I highly recommend this for all children or for adults who loved Enid Blyton books as kids.
Enjoyable sequel and I really liked the story at the time.
Molly & Peter return to Fairy Land29 March 2012 This book follows on from the first Wishing Chair book and Blyton's storytelling ability has certainly begun to advance by this stage. However, I have also noticed that there is a gap of about 27 years between these two books. During this time she had written the three Faraway Tree books, so it is not surprising that as we read this story we discover references to the Faraway Tree and some of the magical lands therein. We also meet one of the G
Unlike the first book, which was more a collection of short stories, the structure of this book is more like the Faraway Tree where there are a small number of adventures with the final adventure being a journey to light-hearted place (the Island of Surprises).
It is a major difference from the Faraway Tree stories where mother knows what is going on, and even meets a number of the characters from the Enchanted Wood.
Unlike the Enchanted Wood, there are multiple ways that the children can enter Fairy Land, but it is necessary in this story as the Wishing Chair is not always available to take them on adventures.
I'm still in love with this series!On the previous series, each chapter usually is about one adventure whileas on this book, it might take couple of chapters for one stories.And the most exciting adventure for me in this book is when they are flying on their wishing chair to Land of Goodies, oohh myy.. I sure will lovee being in that place where the trees grow chocolates, nyaamm nyaamm :qI still have one more book to read, cause I bought the "3 in 1" edition :pCan't wait to read what other adventures will Peter, Mollie and Chinky have? ^o^
Aw, c'mon, who didn't want a chair with wings on it?! Perfect to mix in with The Faraway Tree; I read (and had read to me) those five books countless times as a kid. Such a delight.
I remembered this from my childhood, more fondly than I currently found it. It seems very dated and slightly twee, but my kids loved it, and it was nice to pass the magic on.
I was a voracious reader as a child having entire series of "The Baby Sitter's Club", "Sweet Valley Kids", and "Sweet Valley High School", but nothing sparked my imagination like Enid Blyton.
I would recommend her to anyone and everyone who liked reading and asked what I was reading.
The way her short stories sparked my imagination impacted me more than I let on.
They were parables like Disney animated movies in printed words and I would get lost in them for hours until my mother would call me for dinner.
I would put Enid Blyton to the level of Roald Dahl and Dr. Suess.
Siblings Peter and Mollie, and their pixie friend Chinky, spend the summer holidays having wonderful adventures with their Wishing Chair, a magical chair that grows wings, flies and takes them to whatever fantasy realm strikes their fancy. There are evil giants, a naughty brownie named Winks, and any number of witches and wizards, and the children have a great deal of fun…. This was published in 1950 and it’s very much of its time. A quick read, but with far too many “dear little teapots” and the like. Meh.
My first foray, as memory serves, into the world of reading, and the source of my lifelong fascination with fantasy literature. Enid Blyton and her Adventures of the Wishing-Chair introduced me to giants, pixies, fairies, and all things most magnificently magical.I recommend this highly and absolutely to all new parents with young children who are just beginning to read. Give your child[ren] this magical gift, and set them on the path to a life full of wonder and fantasy.
Honestly, when I was a kid I either wanted a Wishing Chair or a Far Away Tree of my own. Or maybe both.
The adventures of Mollie, Peter and Jinky got more dangerous. But this book is pure gem. The illustration is one masterpiece.
Izzy (age 8) is really enjoying these books. She gives them 4.5 stars.
One of my most favourite childrens' fantasy books ever! I have considered finding my own copy on e-Bay (and paying a mint for it), to replace the lost copy from my childhood.
My eight year old son absolutely loved this book and the entire series. Despite an unfortunate character name this still holds up today.
The children have a splendid secret that they've been keeping to themselves ever since their mother's birthday: they own the most terrifically magical Wishing-Chair ever!Their friend Chinky the Pixie takes the Wishing-Chair to his mother's house to look after it, and when Mollie and Peter come home, they and Chinky go on all kinds of unusual adventures together.
They also meet a very naughty Brownie named Winks - a trouble-maker who wants to leave his own boarding/reform school and join Mollie, Peter and Chinky on their various adventures.I don't know if I've read this particular book before, I don't think so; although I may have read a different book in The Wishing-Chair Series.
Mollie, Peter and Chinky the pixie return in this, the second book in Enid Blyton's Wishing Chair series, in which the chair is stolen by a giant.
There are some new characters to meet too, from Twisty the giant to Winks, a naughty brownie who the children decide to rescue along the way.Like all of Blyton's books, the short stories are bite-sized and the perfect length for a quick bedtime story, and they hearken from a time when parents actually took the time to read to their children, rather than sitting them in front of a television, an Xbox, a Playstation or an iPad. Ah, how times have changed.
Aha, when my father introduced me to the Enid Blyton books, I was told that she was a children's book author.
Until then, children's magazine meant Balarama.
But only after I finished reading the book, did I realize that children's magazine can be more than amazing.
I still have that book with me and whenever I feel the urge to become a teen, I read that.
To all the friends, who miss their teenage, I am sure Enid Blyton books are sure to give a treat.
Verdict: Just start reading the book and enjoy the feeling when it takes you to the wonderland!!!!

This book holds very fond memories for me as it was one of the first books I ever read as a child.
I came late to books but I remember being around 9 or 10 and getting this book for Christmas from my Grandma.
I still remember reading the whole thing and being so proud that I had actually finished a whole book!
The story of the two children and the wishing chair along with their friend the brownie is such a great little adventure and it helped to spark my imagination and love of books.
Great read for little boys and girls that are just starting out though maybe a little dated.
[b] The Adventures Of The Wishing Chair / The Wishing Chair Again / More Wishing Chair Stories [/b] Enid Blyton four starsMollie and Peter Find an old change in a strange little shop. The chair sprouts wings from time to time and take the children and their friend Chinky the Pixie on magical adventures.I was a big fan of these stories as a child, it was fun for me to re-read them and although they are a bit dated, I'm pretty sure little kids still like pixies and stuff :)
The book doesn’t have much in the way of a developed plot; there are a series of random adventures during a school holiday break, rather abruptly ended, and they are somewhat repetitive (formulaic) adventures at that. My five-year-old daughter enjoyed the book well enough, although I did have to explain to her what a boarding school was and what servants were. There are elves, pixies, brownies, magic, a land of treats…what more can a child want?
Read this book a long time ago while at school. Enid Blyton is really a wizard. The concept of having a chair which will take you to wherever you want to go- From Toyland to The Land of I never... Each adventure was a fun filled experience and as a avid reader of Enid Blyton, I can say this is really one of her best works.
Again I loved this book as a kid and, along with the Folk Of The Farway Tree, was the only series I really read by Enid Blyton (not even Noddy or The Famous Five). The story is simple and ,even though much of the danger in the books is resolved far too quickly, little kids will love these just as much as I did.
A great read :) Helps me to relax my mind after a tiring day at work. There's a child in every one of us. How true! Try reading a book that's specially written for children and see how it helps you to relax. Try it!
Love love love! One of my all time favourites as a kid and have read it to all 3 of my children, the youngest of which is 3. His teachers are amazed he can tell them what happened months later and that he can sit and listen to a book with hardly any pictures. Enid blyton is a natural story teller
I've always loved Enid Blyton and as a child I read almost all of the books I could get my hands on. I'll never forget the sheer wonder of this book, the magic and the amazing things it allowed me to imagine.
Oh, I do loved this book and series as a child! Wished for a magic carpet not a chair for myself to have adventures flying to new and exotic places not even realizing I was living an exotic childhood as a child!
a childhood book re-read just because i'm home for the weekend. not a very successful one either, am really too old for it even w/ a big dollop of nostalgia. maybe i should read faraway tree instead. two stars
أول قصة أقرأها بتركيز ، لغتها سهله جدا و الأحداث سلسة و غير متوقعه ، من أفضل القصص الخيالية التي أعرفها ، الجانب السلبي فيها هو فهم المخلوقات الغريبة الموجودة بالقصة نظراً لأنه لا توجد ترجمه حرفية لأغلب أسماء الشخصيات فيه
