https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/142900.The_Master_Butchers_Singing_Club
This is a beautiful, often painful novel.Although Louise Erdrich generally places emphasis on the Native American in her books, she has chosen to take a different route with this novel.
The occasional references to American Indians are by no means insignificant, however, but add spice to an already intriguing narrative.
Erdrich has plumbed the depths and peaks of the emotions of her characters with stark, lyrical realism.
Her narrative of the environment which existed for them was beautifully and palpably etched throughout.It is rare that I give a book a five star rating, but this seems to easily merit this place.
Erdrich has plenty of skill setting up the beginning of a story - she does it about twelve times - but never manages to actually stay with any particular arc.
Stories and characters are established just enough to whet your interest, and then she just wanders to another one.
That story will totally peter out and happen pretty much offstage.
Interested in the murder mystery that gets set up, or the story of Delphine's friend?
You end up with a serious case of literary blue balls, wishing that the author had been as interested in her own characters as you are.
If I can compare it with other books similar in ambiance, authors such as Amy Tan, Lisa See, Wiley Cash, Erskine Caldwell, Cormack McCarthy and Jonis Agee comes to mind.I enjoyed this novel set in North Dakota beginning after WWI and ending after WWII.
There's no other way of describing the captivating experience, although it took some guts at times to continue reading.
Well, this is North Dakota-noir, intense, Gothic and dark at times, but an unforgettable good reading experience.
There was lots that irked me - pacing that speeded up and then slowed way way down and the central passion seems hollow (and mostly happens offstage) - but I read compulsively nonetheless.
The Native American genocide, World War I, the Holocaust - it's all there, or you can just read this book as a quirky gothic family tale.
The Master Butchers Singing Club's slaughters - of Native Americans, livestock, wild dogs - are gutpunchingly stark and brutal (an awful lot of dead things in this book), but the tone is never hectoring.
But the gritty, bloody, earthy vibrancy is very compelling and I forgave the book its lumpiness.
The story covers the period from the end of WW1 through and beyond WW2 and is about a simple German fellow and his bride who move to the US for a better life and end up settling in a small town in North Dakota and then eke out an existence as a butcher with meat market.
The main story is the interaction over the years between an amazing and lovable female character and the German couple and their four children, most of it set in their meat market.
VERY mixed feelings about this book.
The same could be said of the character from whose perspective the story is initially told; he seems to be only a vehicle for introducing us to the two women upon whom the majority of the novel is focused.I finished the book thinking that the author's intentions were very poorly implemented and that I felt shorted by the fact the novel left me with no entertaining questions or themes other than wondering why it deserved to be published.
The author’s style reminded me strongly of Canadian author Robertson Davies (a compliment coming from me, as I adore his Deptford series, which also deals with small town characters).
It strikes me that this could have been a Canadian book—the northern U.S. shares many environmental and cultural threads with Canada, I think.This is probably also the best depiction of a love triangle that I have ever encountered in literature.
Several triangle relationships hinge on Fidelis, the master butcher.
Fidelis, Delphine and Cyprian.
(view spoiler)[He is the provider for Eva until her death, considers Tante until she returns to Germany, and waits until he is sure that Cyprian is truly gone before proposing to Delphine.
******************************************Louise Erdrich likes to sneak up behind us and surprise us with what we already know but are trying to forget.Death and life are the same.
And we, ourselves, live and die for the nourishment of others.That which we see around us is so much more than we suspect; but is hidden from us by, not only our own self-imposed illusions, but also by the deceptions imposed upon us by others for our own, and their own, protection.This book plays out those realities in ways that confuse and deceive us so that we may then learn for ourselves that which we have forgotten.This is one more gem; and Louise Erdrich keeps making jewelery.
...A bowl of oatmeal steaming hot, butter melting in a pool with a lump or two of dark brown sugar.
...a plate of beans baked in tomato sauce, a large beer sausage, and half a sweet onion...
...sugar cookies in the shapes of animals, fried doughnuts, sausages, bread, hard cheese, apples, and bottles of beer...
...creamed chicken, creamed corn and spinach, mashed potatoes with butter and cream, pies and cookies set out on doilies cut of white paper...
...Country bread thickly spread with real sweet butter, ham perfectly smoked, cured, and cut fresh in a generous slab...
The book had my complete interest from the first two chapters, but I had no idea initially where the author would take it.
It was a fascinating story, or rather collection of stories, particulary how each character's life fell into pattern with the others'.
One of the strongest points for me was how she wrote and used time.
Some events were written in a sentence or two and others lasted chapters, and it was not about how significant or trivial the event was, but rather it was like seeing each event happen in real time, as the characters experienced it.
I love Louise Erdrich. Love her.She is such a nuanced, intelligent, talented writer.I would read anything she writes. I'd read her shopping list.Even her weaker novels -- and there have been one or two -- are worth the read, simply for her lyricism and the way she elevates the act of storytelling into an art form.The Master Butchers Singing Club is, I'm happy to say, one of her best. Highly recommended.
This book was a complete and welcome surprise. Wonderful writing and an easy stream of words pull and guide you through this life cycle of a story  The Master Butchers Singing Club. I always seem to detail the shelf life or position of said book as it makes itself known to me. How I became familiar with it. It’s purchase. How long it sat on my hallowed shelves. How it made it to a final cut but then due to lack of ripeness ended up right back in its home snuggled in comfortably with other books
However, the life of this book is complete and this tale would be incomplete if there were not various characters to enhance, dance and live alongside the large presence that is Fidelis in the small town of Argus, North Dakota.
Delphine Watzka is Roy’s daughter who in the future lives a full and complex life but upon introduction is having a complicated relationship with closeted Cyprian Lazzare.
The world turns and Step and a half walks the town with her cart full of rags and what not.
Review to follow.
Yes, I finally finished this book and have decided this writer is just not for me.
This one had a different subject and I wanted to try it.
The main character Delphine was very likeable and I enjoyed her story.
Some of the other subjects in the book, not as interesting and too detailed.
I liked the story but to me, it just took too long to tell it.
It was a very good story and this author is an excellent writer, just that all this detail is not for me.
I"m sure there are many who enjoy her.
"He moved from the dangerous quiet where he lived," Erdrich writes, "into the unacceptable knowledge that in spite of the dead weight of killed souls and what he'd learned in the last three years about the monstrous ground of existence and his own murderous efficiency, he was meant to love." Even far from the sacred land of her native Americans, Erdrich knows just how to hover between what's plain and what's extraordinary, building on the life of this common German rifleman a story of legendary proportions."Tons of power were behind his slightest gesture," but Fidelis's destiny is shaped as much by the tragedy of world war as by the wonder of sliced bread.
Louise Erdrich rarely disappoints and this was no exception. I listened half on audio and read the book for the last half. I enjoyed both but preferred reading it but I always prefer print over audio.
The story then follows Fidelis, now a master butcher like his father, as he travels to America and takes the train west as far as his money will take him which ends up being Argus North Dakota.
Eva takes to Delphine and they soon become the best of friends.
Years go by, many things happen, clear up to the end of WWII.The first half of the book was very good, but it seemed like the author lost steam when it came to recounting life after the boys grew up.
The reveal about Delphine's mother was so odd coming at the very end like that.
The master butcher's singing club of the title doesn't really figure into this book at all. Fidelis, the master butcher in question, does start a singing group in his new home of Argus, North Dakota, that's meant to reflect the master butcher's singing club he was a part of back in Germany, as a place where outside grievances can be set aside.But this story is really about Delphine, a native of, though an outsider in, Argus. It's about her relationship with men, sort of, but really about what s
It's about her relationship with men, sort of, but really about what she discovers when she meets Eva, Fidelis's wife.
In Eva, Delphine discovers the mother she never had, as well as a best friend.
What threw me for a loop, though, was at the very end of the book when the truth about Delphine's mother is revealed to the reader, but not to Delphine herself.
By including it at the end, it seemed as though we were supposed to think that this revelation was the whole point of the story, rather than an incidental part of the character Delphine became.
I can't say that Erdrich has an easy style -- in fact, at times it is frustratingly obtuse, perhaps even deliberately so, but she still leaves a very tantalizing trail of breadcrumbs that you can't help put pick up after.Throughout, we explore the weight of history: deeply personal stories of scarred individuals who --much like the rest of us -- struggle to make sense of the progress of their lives, while dragging along the weight of their ancestors.
Unrelentingly, she exposes the tender cuts, and the raw wounds of the butchery of life: a master craftswoman in her own right.Be warned: it's work, and no mistake that you'll be exhausted by it.
Today, her hair was bound back in a singular knot, the sides rolled in smooth twists, the knot itself in the shape of the figure eight, which Delphine knew was the ancient sign for eternity.
As Delphine watched, into her head there popped a strange notion: the idea that perhaps strongly experienced moments, as when Eva turned and the sun met her hair and for that one instant the symbol blazed out, those particular moments were eternal.
Into a file of moments that existed out of time's range.."What struck me was how much loving, caring, mentoring went on in this book.
There are alot of people in this book whose lives are intertwining, and you come to know all (or at least most) of them so intimately that it is slightly jarring when the perspective changes from one to another.
My only problem with this book was that it felt rushed at the end, and I lost the feeling of being inside the characters' heads.
However, there was a sense of life speeding up and everybody hurtling towards their seemingly inevitable ends that I believe was intentional.
In fact, the turning point in this change of perspective shortly follows one character's observations about one's spirit being part of a larger pattern.
The title says it all: this novel is replete with images that juxtapose the gorgeous with the grotesque (I'll toot my own horn over that bit of alliteration there), from the bloody trade that supports the main characters (butchers), and the plethora of death and bodies, to the wild and inspiring landscapes of the mid-west and touching portrayals of human relationships.
I can't recall exactly, but this book is every bit a story about the tough-as-nails immigrants that settled the mid-west after the turn of the century (19th to 20th, not 20th to 21st) and all they had to contend with, from weather to prejudice.
And I really wish Erdrich would have been able to find a more artistically satisfying way of delivering the information we get in the final chapter which, as it stands, comes off as a clumsy add-on.I started with the intent of giving this three stars but I find that the more I write, the more likely I am to talk my rating down.
I’ll just stop here, with the three stars, and wish Erdrich had been able to detach her novelist self from her family memories and make this all it could have been.
Add Ron , Delphine's hard drinking, poor excuse of a father with his own dark secrets, Step-and-a-half, the local rag picker, love, friendship, murder, and small town life as our nation recovers from one war only to lead into another, making this a story that is hard to put down.
Erdrich blends her love of history and Ojibwa heritage yet again, in this saga.
A bit long, perhaps, maybe too much story for one book, but still, the characters absolutely shine.
I haven't read an Erdrich book in a long time and was quite entertained by this one.
This was the first book I've read of Erdrich's.
It was a beautifully written and sometimes heartbreaking love story.
A love story between men and women, mothers and sons and daughters, fathers and sons and daughters, women friends, and even a love story between humans and animals.
The story was slow in some parts, but the writing was worth it.
I did have to train myself to read this book slowly.
I am amazed at how Erdrich can write so much about one instance and her ability to show everything that is happening.
Equally awesome is how all of those little instances were put together into a wholly believable and well-crafted story.
Ok, so I read this book in 7 hours yesterday. Couldn't put it down. Very sad, but interesting and gripping novel! I'd even go so far as to call it 'epic'.I sobbed my heart out on pages 139-140...other than that, I was just involved in the story. In turn I thought, Poor Delphine, Poor Cyprian, Poor Eva, Poor Fidelis, Poor Markus, Poor Franz, Poor Mazarine!!! I never felt Poor Tante though... hahahah.The end was VERY surprising.
University of Iowa, Feb. 2003Clueless radio interviewer asked if the frequent mentions of stomachs in the book had to do with a metaphorical hunger or the reposession of bodies to the earth through death. Ms. Erdrich said no, she was pregnant and couldn't reach the keyboard, so it was kind of on her mind. Funny and moving - it must be a good sign if she brings you to tears during the reading.
3.5 starsLiked: Descriptions of the time, complex relationships Disliked: Development of characters, too many story lines and some didn’t add to story
I read this book with very little knowledge/expectations on its content or quality of writing.
It contains intrigue, some twists, socialistic love problems and, unfortunately, too many characters that did not get clarified.Personally I felt that the author went way beyond what was needed to tell her story.
Now that I have completed the book, I found there are lose ends that need to be reveled.
The “cellar” story was unbelievable with no clear explanation to this reader.
I am sorry but the author leaves too much for me to fill in to call this a "must" read.
Louise Erdrich has filled this wonderful book brim full of diverse and vibrant characters, and weave
