https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32956365-the-light-we-lost
Not everyone, myself included, will fully understand every decision Lucy makes along the way, or avoid clinging on to the fact that she was incredibly selfish in some instances, given she was living the life she chose, but at the end of the day, I felt like who was I to judge.
Not only for a book that’s impossible to put down, one that will own you for the entire time it takes to read and most likely days, if not weeks after, but for a story that will leave you emotionally gutted.
On 9/11 - yes, 9/11 - Lucy meets Gabe, and they instantly fall in love and make out while 3,000 people are dying blocks away.
They should end up together.”The worst thing that happens in this book - besides the 9/11 incorporation - is a massive spoiler, so don’t read this if you’re at all feeling like you may pick up the book.
(view spoiler)[Lucy thinks Darren, her adoring and terrible husband, is cheating on her, so she f*cks Gabe.
It’s no Me Before You, guys.But even if this book didn’t suffer from all the stuff I mentioned - and God, did it suffer - I still wouldn’t like it.
all the things she thinks of when she imagines her perfect, amazing life when she grows up that have no foundation in reality because she has no idea what actually goes into doing things like getting a job or having a relationship.There's a scene in the beginning where they're in Shakespeare class together and Lucy's bowled over by Gabe's otherworldly ability to "see the beauty in Shakespeare's language and imagery." I'm being serious.
‘’The world felt like it was cracking in pieces, like we’d gone through a shattered mirror into the fractured place inside, where nothing made sense, where our shields were down, our walls broken. In that place, there wasn't any reason to say no.’’ This book was quite a departure from what I usually choose to read. It was all in the cover, to be honest. I saw the lovely couple’s silhouettes and I said ‘’yeah, okay. Bye!’’ Because romance, people. Not my style at all. But, then my brain processe
Family, choices, priorities, worries over an uncertain future are issues that are very prominent in this book, and reading it was a delight.
Lucy and Gabe make some bad choices and their lives turn quite differently that they had planned.
In this novel, we witness a kind of love that starts as an obsession (and we all know how that feels when we are 20 years old) and becomes so strong that haunts the characters’ lives and the lives of those who struggle to approach them.
Read it for a beautiful reference to a kind of love that is firmly rooted in the souls of two people.
Gabe isn't happy though, he wants to do more with his life and is afraid of ending up like his own father, resentful and unsuccessful.
The plot has been done before, especially the ending and I know I read a similar book at some point this year but the execution was good so it wasn't a big deal.
I mean she didn't ever date Gabe long enough to know how it would actually be once there was more pressure from life and problems on them.
I don't think Lucy's love for Gabe was love but really obsession with what she thinks they had and what she wants and can't have.
"Love does that. It makes you feel infinite and invincible, like the whole world is open to you, anything is achievable, and each day will be filled with wonder. Maybe it's the act of opening yourself up, letting someone else in—or maybe it's the act of caring so deeply about another person that it expands your heart. I've heard so many people say some version of I never knew how much I could love another human being until...I never knew how much I could love another human being until I met you
As she grows to love Darren, she knows their relationship will never be the same as her and Gabe's, but is a life of steady love better or worse than a life of brief bouts of burning passion?While both of their lives move on without the other, Gabe and Lucy still find themselves orbiting around each other from time to time, encounters which provoke passion, pain, betrayal, jealousy, grief and, of course, love.
But beyond the emotions it provokes, it's an interesting and compelling look at the power of first love, and how it can radically change the course of your life.
I don't know how to review this, so I'm going to ramble for a bit.
I'm so appreciative!Secondly, if there's one thing that I took away from this story is to follow your heart.
This book had me so irritated with the nature and fragility of human beings, which we obviously can't control at times, because we fall into the trap of following that which is safe and stable, rather than stepping into fear, the unknown and that which might possibly break us, but will make us feel the most alive and accomplished.
Tragic to know that we as humans often settle.
Why is 5 stars the limit??!! OMG!!! I LOVED, loved this freaking book!!! The entire time I was reading, I had a sense of foreboding. The style in which it is told felt like a confession and immediately I was apprehensive. Sigh. Lovely. My poor tear-ducts. Lol"Love does that. It makes you feel infinite and invincible, like the whole world is open to you, anything is achievable."
Regrets!I adore dual narrations, but this is in single POV, told by the heroine, Lucy, and is extremely well written.
The storyline is told in the form of what I would call a diary with the most mysterious undertones as she recounts past events.
I found myself enthralled trying to figure out which direction the storyline was headed.
Scenarios kept swirling in my head as to how ‘everything’ was going to play out.So what is this ‘everything?’ To tell you would give too much away, and as per usual, I won’t give you a smidgen.
It didn't matter that on that day when they were both in College, they shared a few intimate moments which Lucy thought were the beginning of a relationship and then Gabe decided to go back to his ex-girlfriend that same day.
It didn't matter that over a year later, after they met again on her birthday (which happened to be the same night he broke up with said ex-girlfriend) and then started dating Lucy, that Gabe never once put Lucy first thereafter.
I will admit however, that I had a bit of a hard time with the story of Gabe and Lucy at the start of this novel.
I don't even know how to review that book. It's one of the most emotionally engaging books I've read in a long time. My heart broke many a time reading it. It's gut-wrenching. But most of all it's just beautiful. It's a love story and it's a story about love and choices we make and all the what ifs we have to live with.  Lucy and Gabe, two people who are meant to be together but when together their love is just too intense, too much, burns and breaks them. Their story is incredibly heart-breakin
It's one of the most emotionally engaging books I've read in a long time.
My heart broke many a time reading it.
Lucy and Gabe, two people who are meant to be together but when together their love is just too intense, too much, burns and breaks them.
Their story is incredibly heart-breaking.
Lucy isn't enough, Gabe is too much.
What happens to them, how their story ends, well, make sure to have tissues ready because it will make you cry, it will break your heart.
The Light We Lost is simply beautiful and compelling, it will stay with me for a very long time.
What’s a person gotta do to get some hearts broken here? I’ve been in search of an emotionally damaging read that tugs at my heartstrings for far too long with no luck whatsoever.A reputable source tells me this might be it... be it.This is what I said prior to starting this book... the depressed me who was sat staring at blank space for hours, just wasting the day away could go back and punch the yesterday me with the big mouth. 🤦♀I'm dead inside. I feel so fucking empty and melancholic. I have
It's about ‘that one great love’ that spans decades since its start on September 11, 2001, a day when Lucy and Gabe met at Columbia University and nothing was the same again.
Over a course of a decade, Lucy recounts her turbulent relationship with Gabe and their whirlwind romance as young love unfolds and life (stupid life) gets in the way.
Their romance gets interrupted as both want to make a difference and seek a meaning in life so he leaves to become a photo-journalist in war-torn lands and she stays in NY and becomes a children's TV producer.✨ The narrative:The narrative is written in the second person as a kind of one-sided conversation/monologue as lucy is addressing Gabe as ‘you’, much like the novel, YOU by Caroline Kepness.
Cliches at every turn and a laughably predictable ending which is supposed to be heart breaking and beautiful etc etc but my eyes bled rather than wept!
(Figuratively speaking of course)I sent a message to my friend Gabby after reading the first few chapters of the book.
It went as follows:"I am reading the most emotionally manipulative BS book and I'm just waiting for someone to be dead at the end.
I want to punch this f^*king MC and tell her to get the f^*k over herself and stop relying on a *broken* man to make you feel complete you f^*king doormat."My feelings had not changed upon completion of the book.
“We’ve known each other for almost half our lives.I’ve seen you smiling, confident, blissfully happy.I’ve seen you broken, wounded, lost.But I’ve never seen you like this.You’ve taught me to look for beauty. In darkness in destruction, you always found light.I don’t know what beauty I’ll find here, what light. But I’ll try. I’ll do it for you. Because I know you would do it for me.There was so much beauty in our life together.Maybe that’s where I should start.” On the day that Lucy and Gabriel
In darkness in destruction, you always found light.I don’t know what beauty I’ll find here, what light.
Gabriel makes Lucy feel infinite.
Lucy makes Gabriel feel invincible.
It makes you feel infinite and invincible, like the whole world is open to you anything is achievable, and each day will be filled with wonder.”
A Step You Can’t Take Back – Kiera Knightley Written by: Gregg Alexander, Danielle Brisebois, John Carney Lucy is a planner, not a dreamer.
The level of comfort—it feels like no time has passed.” I read this book 3 days ago and I'm still feeling the heartache.
<3Ps. I want to thank my dearest friend Amber for recommending this book to me.
“You make me feel invincible,” you whispered.Love does that.
It makes you feel infinite and invincible, like the whole world is open to you, anything is achievable, and each day will be filled with wonder.
I’ve heard so many people say some version of I never knew how much I could love another human being until .
It isn't strong enough to support an entire novel.Sure there are those who enjoy a soap opera, or those who are twenty-something elitists in New York who believe their problems have deep relevance to the world.
This is not a book for me.Sorry, Penguin Random House.
You gave me the book for a review, but I can't finish it.
I wouldn't inflict this on anyone I know because they like good books with substance.
If you're wondering why book sales are down, well, you can start here.
I read this book to complete the Booktubeathon challenge of 'reading a book about something you want to do' and I have always wanted to live in New York, and this book not only takes place in New York, but the dedication literally says: "For New York." “Some relationships feel like a wildfire-they're powerful and compelling and majestic and dangerous and have the capability to burn you before you even realize you've been consumed.....some relationships feel like a hearth fire-they're solid and stable and cozy and nourishing.” This book reminded me a lot of One True Loves by Taylor Jenkins Reid and Before We Were Strangers by Renee Carlino (two of my favorites!) The love triangle situation between Lucy and Gabe and Darren was totally reminding me of One True Loves and it's been a while since I've read a really good love triangle where I root for both sides.
It is something in our history that no one will ever forget.I enjoyed their love story—how much they loved each other and supported each other though at times I often felt that Lucy took a backseat to Gabe's personality and later on his hopes and dreams for his career.The reader will journey with Lucy as she tries to get over her broken heart of losing her love and then when she tries to build a new future with Darren, the epitome of the perfect boyfriend.
There were times that I didn't love their choices because I knew in my heart that someone was going to get hurt.
I won this through a Goodreads giveaway.Ever have a friend who cannot stop yammering about the love that got away?
Imagine over 300 pages of that and you have the essentials of this book.
A significant portion of this book is devoted to the narrator commenting on the fact that the second boyfriend does things that would never have occurred to the first and vice versa.
It is appalling that it's mentioned in the same breath as "Me Before You", "One Day", or even "Love Story".
This was hard to put down, I loved it!
Warning! this is going to be a huge RANT with lots of profanity. Kids stay in school. Where do I even start with this book? Oh! Maybe with some general thoughts like:I FUCKING HATED IT. So much. So so much. SO MUCH. The Plot  Lucy and Gabriel met as collage students. Kissed at 9/11. Dated for a second. Broke up. Met a second time. Fucked around a lot. Started thinking they were unique and poetic. When in fact they are just regular morons. Hurt people. Stalked each other and thought they were 'f
If you don't enjoy long discriptions here's a summary:Lucy: The selfish-who doesn't know what 'compromising' means-Bitch.Gabe: The interrupting cow.Darren: The guy who suffered from the stupidity of the selfish bitch and the interrupting cow.
She just didn't fucking do it.So let's begin at the start, Lucy meets Gabe.
But even with his level of stupidity he tried to stop Lucy from cheating.I actually knew that something sad was going to happen soooo when Gabe died.
This book has been highly acclaimed as gut wrenching, heart breaking, beautiful, and raw.
It's been a while since I read something that made me feel so deeply for the characters, that made me want to reach through the pages and grab their hand and let them know that everything will eventually be okay.
It could have been all the things I said before - gut wrenching, heart breaking, beautiful, and raw - without all the angst.
Thankfully this wasn't the bulk of the book and it was still very, very enjoyable so please don't let this stop you from reading it if you're interested...just know going into it.
"What makes a life well spent?" I first heard about The Light We Lost through The Skimm and knew immediately that I wanted to read it, so I chose it for my book club's July read (Sidenote: Most of us really enjoyed it). Then, I saw reviews mentioning the book was a cross between One Day and Me Before You and thought "oh no" but also "oh yes" - 2 books that I really enjoyed but have tragic elements. As I read this book, I braced myself for the inevitable tragedy that I predicted to occur. The Li
I first heard about The Light We Lost through The Skimm and knew immediately that I wanted to read it, so I chose it for my book club's July read (Sidenote: Most of us really enjoyed it).
Then, I saw reviews mentioning the book was a cross between One Day and Me Before You and thought "oh no" but also "oh yes" - 2 books that I really enjoyed but have tragic elements.
Lucy and Gabe met in college on September 11, 2001 and the day changes their lives, as it did for many, particularly because they are in New York.
"Thank you for filling a dark day with light."
This is a love story albeit a flawed one, that’s not really a bad thing, I don’t believe in perfect love.
Love is complicated, love is giving and taking and plenty of goddamn heartbreak.
You know immediately that something significant is going to happen.
You wait and you wait...with bated breath not really knowing if you want it to come.
some moments were real AHA moments that I got and felt in my bones, that inexplicable connection you have with someone, but just like love this book has plenty of flaws.
It’s not perfect but who says it has to be...4 imperfect stars.
This was a wonderful, tragic love story told from an interesting perspective.
Lucy fell in love with Gabe on 9/11, and now she’s telling her story to him as in a letter.
From the very beginning, you are told that Lucy and Gabe break up which makes you wonder why Lucy is telling him her story and what has happened to both of them meanwhile.
I liked this book a lot, and the ending was devastating but made everything make sense.
Definitely a book for any lovers of love stories; as long as you’re not afraid to have your heart broken a little bit.
Copy received from netgalley in exchange for an honest reviewOn the one hand this was a romantic heart-wrenching beautiful story and I really enjoyed watching Lucy’s and Gabe’s journey, but on the other hand it left me in such a sad mood. That ending was so heartbreaking. This is the kind of story that will stay with you long after you’ve read it.
this book absolutely gutted me...and yet, i can't stop thinking about it or wanting to talk about it...
The Light We Lost is a story of love, marriage and family from Lucy’s point of view. I soooooo wanted to love this book like so many of my Goodreads friends. ): I think it was Santopolo’s writing style that bothered me a bit. It reminded me of A Small Indiscretion, which was also a three star read. I didn’t hate it or think it was just ok. It was a light and quick read that I did want to read to the end.
We don't know yet if she is talking to him or writing him a letter, but it was such a brilliant way to tell the story.
At times, I found myself hating each and every character in this book for their decisions.
I don’t want the characters in my books to be perfect.
I don’t want to agree with everything my characters do.
I know I’ve come across a great book and a great writer when they give me a character I hate, but empathize with at the same time.
I have never highlighted a book the way I did with this one.
So I started this book at 9 pm last night and just finished.
You know how there's those books that you can't put down?
It was so easy to read and was such an amazing story.
The short chapters meant I could keep going even when my lids were drooping last night.
Their life events happened in time with mine which made for such a strong connection.
It was amazing to follow their story as I had similar life experiences.This would be a perfect book for you if you loved Me Before You. It will be one I will remember for a long time.
