https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18878.The_Belgariad_Vol_1
My grandfather on my father’s side bought me  The Ruby Knight —the second book in The Elenium trilogy, by David Eddings—when I was nine or ten. It was the first modern fantasy I had ever read, and I remember being utterly captivated by Mr. Eddings’ story of knights and magic and monsters, and thinking, “I like this!”I liked it so much, in fact, that I raced to our local library and, over the course of several months, devoured every novel Mr. Eddings had published. I even went so far as to purcha
It was the first modern fantasy I had ever read, and I remember being utterly captivated by Mr. Eddings’ story of knights and magic and monsters, and thinking, “I like this!”I liked it so much, in fact, that I raced to our local library and, over the course of several months, devoured every novel Mr. Eddings had published.
I even went so far as to purchase all five books of the series.Mr. Eddings’ The Belgariad series (Volume One, Volume Two) is a wonderful introduction to fantasy.
Mr. Eddings influenced how I approach fantasy, both as a reader and as an author.
Queen of Sorcery is definitely still my favorite.
There's so much humor in this series.
One good thing about reading this volume as a whole is that Pawn of Prophecy is a tad bit light on substance, and Queen of Sorcery is high on humor, but by the time you get into Magician's Gambit you're actually getting much more into the darker aspects of the series.
It's no longer light-hearted.
Men think in straight lines and women in circles." I actually just had to close my eyes and shake my head a few times at that one.
Competent but predictable fantasy.
If only to see if it is ever explained why our hero, who is destined to do battle with the Ultimate Evil, and whose upbringing was strictly under the control of his "wise mentors," was never taught seemingly basic stuff like...how to read.
Perhaps the next volumes will explain why our hero was raised in such a way as to make him seemingly incompetent to walk to the next village and buy a spool of thread on his own, much less fight an ultimate battle for the fate of the world.
Get ready for the overuse of the word "sardonic" and characters who absolutely have to have the last word ("oh, really?" "yes, indeed!" "I thought you might feel that way." "I was born feeling this way.") I have to be loyal to a fellow Reedie, but Eddings takes the easy way out too often, merely stating situations when he could take more pains to show them ("The young boy took her hand with a mournful look in his eyes showing profound love, tinged with hope and fear and a midafternoon's hunger for a good meat pie.") I want to make it clear that I enjoyed the Belgariad and the Mallorean.
David Eddings also manages to have many very strong very prominent female characters throughout his series this was one of the things that LOTR lacked more than any other it simply has almost no female characters and while this may work for some types of fiction it doesn't for fantasy.
I will not be stoping after these two series I fully intend to read every book that David Eddings and his wife have written and I am sure that I will be much happier for it.
The worst thing that could be said about these books is that they are a tad predictable, the characters somewhat stereotypical, and that it is rather "light" for a fantasy series; but I think that is why I enjoy it so much.
Some parts are very funny - I laughed out loud more than once whilst reading this book, even for the fourth time - whilst others keep you on the edge of your seat or even manage to evoke some emotional response.All in all, I think these books are amazing and I would recommend them to every fan of fantasy and/or adventure stories.
This Fantasy series is entertaining.
Some of the dialogue is witty and sharp.
However, there's more character driven plots than JRR which makes for a fun read.With some tweaking this could actually be adapted to film.
The author actually recycles the plot from this series as a plot device.
This cop-out has been adopted by such notables as George Lucas in episodes 1-3 (even dialogue!) and to a lesser degree by Terry Brooks.
I quote Keanu Reeves comment to Carrie-Ann Moss while filming the Matrix series: "You're doggin' it.' Even still I've read this five book series 3-4 times.
This series has been recommended to me more times than I can count.
I mean, it was good, but it wasn't any better in my opinion than any of those other series out there that tell the same tale- good vs.
evil, magic vs.
non-magic, follow the prophecy road...
This book fits the formula to a T.
I could tell you everything that was going to happen in this series by the second chapter.
What I couldn't tell you were the characters' reactions.
What made this book a four star one was (as with most books of this formula) the supporting cast.
This was a fun read and, of course, is much more lighthearted thanmost the epic fantasy that's out there now-a-days, or at least more than what I read. It fit the mood I was in when I started it and is definitely a product of its time. For me it was a little too much to read these books an an omnibus format, cause by the middle of the Magician's Gambit, I was way ready to be done with it. So I'm not sure I'll ever get back to the remaining books in this series or not.
The plot is an interminable travelogue of new places and characters, only briefly developed, in service to Eddings' fleshing out the maps he drew before writing this series (see Eddings' Preface in this volume).
Don't buy it though--you won't ever reread it like you might Hobbs or Martin for their characters or Bishop or Zelazny for their unique worlds.
It is the same type of book as LOTR, not as well written but still, which is *fan fare* an adventure in a book!!!
I love this type of genre, and this was my first 100+ page book in this genre.
I digress, i digress, i love this book dearly and all of it's characters close to may heart.
The written is splendid, though some beg to differ, the hero was believable and had faults, the enemy was amazing!!!
The concept that differs is awesome!!!
As you can see by my use of three exclamation marks, i really do love this book!
I'm going to make this the proxy review for the entire series of Eddings' work within this universe. I read this around 10 times when I was a teenager, and it's definitely my favorite fantasy series ever (although I don't read many). The characters are memorable, even if they all tend to speak with the same sarcatic, dry tone. The plot is addictive, even if repetitive. The prose is servicable. Recommended to teenagers, and readers of fantasy.
To us this is an issue, but I always keep in mind that, at the time, their audience was not as fluent in magic systems and fantasy races, etc, etc, and that these concepts were more unique and new.
When I picked it up it was because I was sick of many of the modern grimdark fantasy books I had tried of late and just wanted something that was completely, honestly just the hero story I longed for.
But if you're looking for a sturdy fantasy that can take the weight of needing to be everything you want in a fantasy book, BUY IT.
I didn't read the individual novels as they were published; my first encounter with Eddings took place via the collected series.Short version: a funny, scary, adventurous, deep story, told well.Long version: if you've only read a few fantasy series, as I have, it's hard to pigeonhole this.
There's the same kind of merging of myth and history, unified in heroic legends, although it's not nearly as deep or detailed as Tolkien (and that's probably a good thing for the casual reader).
This is an altogether lighter read than any of the LOTR books, and it doesn't build to the same kind of dread.
For five books you get about as much reading as Tolkien's three.
These were my favorite books growing up.
And by favorite I mean I read these more times than Harry Potter-- I know, you're shocked right?
There are plenty of things wrong with this series, that if I had read them as an adult I would probably have ripped it to pieces.
But after years of not reading it and finally picking it up again, it gave me a warm fuzzy feeling of being young, in my own bed with a cat and not having any real responsibilities.
I loved reading about my beloved characters again--like old friends!
A great beginers fantasy series!
This first volume of the Belgariad is a decently engaging story, but not one I would recommend to others.
The story is practically built of cliches, from the Secret King to the Gruff But Wise Wizard, right down to the villain who says "We're very much alike.
Under different circumstances, we might even have been friends." There's also some fairly distasteful racist undercurrents.
In the end, there is the obligatory fleeing from the villain's lair which collapses into ruin as soon as he is defeated for completely arbitrary reasons.
Still, I can think of worse ways to waste a few hours.
This is one of my favorite fantasy series that has been printed. With the complexity and fascinating social and magical structure as most lengthy high fantasy series without the tediousness of lengthy political interactions (at least for me, I find really lengthy politics in my fantasy sort of....hard to muddle through sometimes). This series has some of my favorite characters every written on page and I love going back and reading it again and again. The religious and social aspects are fascinatingly woven together and a joy to read.
I don't think I've read anything so formulaic in years... David Eddings doesn't add a single new element to the fantasy genre, and his characters are cardboard cutouts that sometimes act very oddly for the sake of the plot (like when Garrion, a supposedly naive 14 year old farmboy, has a "dry voice" in his head that sometimes makes him miraculously smart in key plot situations). Also, if another character says something "blandly" to another character again, I will shoot myself. I gave this book 100 pages to be worth my time, and it failed miserably.
This is a high-brow fantasy novel. Eddings has created a new world with its own complex history. I am not a fan of such fantasy because I often find trying to remember the history of a made up world to be really tedious. Trying to keep three thousand years of kings and drama straight was more than I wanted. I didn't even finish this novel. It cam highly recommended by one of my friends, but I couldn't get interested in any of the characters or the plot.
David Eddings begins each book with a piece of history pretaining to the land. We focus on the journey of a young boy by the name of Garion as he is forced to flee his home along with his aunt Pol and travel on a long journey to retrieve a stolen object of great importance. As they journey across multiple countries in pursuit of the object, we see Garion develop his latent powers and we end the third book with the return to where everything began.
Average fantasy with a few flourishes. Reading it now, it reads almost like an adaptation of a Japanese Fantasy RPG where the minute you see a map, you know the characters will have to go to every named point on it, and once they have, the series is over. It's pleasantly written, and the writing style moves pretty briskly. Fun fantasy fluff that goes on a bit too long.
Forget Robert Jordan. David Eddings is the one who knows how to write compelling fantasy- with humor, with love, and with great characters. The Belgariad was his first series, and it shows, but still a wonderful read, and the sequel series is even better.
If you're looking for a unique take on the "Ordinary Farm Boy is the Chosen One to Save the World" story, you'll have to look elsewhere, because this follows the template completely unironically.The characters were likable, but somewhat flat.
Worse, every race in the world is driven by one or two characteristics, and the characters we meet are just cardboard cutouts of their race's templates.
Two of the characters are revealed to be five thousand years old.
For reference, in five thousand years humans on Earth went from the ancient Babylonian civilization to present day.
Eddings spins a tale across both this kingdom & Cherek as we learn piece-by-piece the details of our characters lives as he introduces us to a world of magic & mystery.
Throughout it as characters are slowly introduced the story keeps moving at a pace that is easy enough for the reader to enjoy & also to follow without getting bogged down in details.
It's there that we learn more or less the details of essentially who our cast of characters are & also more about the forces of evil at work in this kingdom.
The book is a classic fantasy story with a LOT borrowed from Tolkien.
I guess that isn't really a bad thing since most fantasy is rooted in him, but some of it is a bit too obvious.
The story is maybe a bit slow to start and it focuses on Garion (the main character) at a young age a first.
Once he starts to grow up the second part of the book really steps up the action.It's also nice to have a fantasy story that isn't 900 so pages long.
This first book was only 262 pages, which makes for a nice little read.
I read the first three books in succession.
All I can say is, what a refreshing story.
Eddings does an excellent job of carrying the story.
Every time I put the book down I couldn't wait until the next time I picked it up.
The story involves the typical fantasy characters such as sorcerers, elves, dwarves and the like, but it also includes some rare ones that I've not seen in any stories I've read.
I cannot wait to read the last two books in the installment, and from there I will see what else Eddings has in store for me to read.
A 4 for premise and a 2 for execution.
Upshot: the author draws an interesting world with some well-thought characters and convincing political dynamics in this page-turner.
Downsides: these people are basically invincible and can easily handle any big bad with any power that comes their way...which left me wondering why it's so hard to retrieve the magic thingamajig.
If there's no real danger in the journey, then what's the point of the 700 pages (just for volume 1)?
This was a gift which had been sitting there for ages so I'll probably make it to volume 2 since I'd feel rude otherwise.
Astoundingly reliant on fantasy tropes. Ever read Jones' "Tough Guide To Fantasyland?"-- this often echoed that text, but without any of the parody. Everyone wears boots, eats stew, and the women are often caricatures. Nevertheless, it was entertaining. Just be very, very patient with the author. Overall, advised moreso if you are aching for a comfortably familiar, wending epic fantasy than if you were seeking something with a lot of substance.
I didn't love this series and am questioning whether or not I'll read the next three books. I want to know what happens, but I'm not sure how bad I want to know. The characters are likeable and the mystical happenings are intriguing, but it is taking them a long time to get where they are going and to do what they need to do. The Belgariad plot is similar to The Lord of the Rings, but not as enjoyable.
So at least one of those three stars is pure nostalgia. This series is simple, predictable in that it dutifully follows expected tropes and cliches, and doesn't do a whole lot of anything new. Still, it was one of the first fantasy series I ever read as a kid, and I can't deny my fondness for it and some of the characters (Silk is bae) to this day.
