https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118469.If_You_Really_Loved_Me
Investigators know there's something wrong about Brown, and about the crime, but the clever puppeteer manages to stay beyond the law for several years through sleight-of-hand and sickening manipulation of both children.
This is pure storytelling here, without the soapy philosophizing and heavy-handed moralizing that also marked much of Rule's later output.
And for this window into that necessary knowledge — and several others like it during a 15-year period of remarkable productivity — Ann Rule rightfully earned her place among the greats of nonfiction narrative crime-writing.
The crimes that were committed were so heinous and unbelievable that you wanted to believe it was a bad fiction murder story.
The story is so captivating I couldn't put the book down for long, I had to know more of this murderous creature, I don't even want to call him a man!
I highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys true crime books or anyone who wants to see how vulnerable children can be to an obscene predator who manipulated their young minds by telling them how much he loved them when they didn't have a proper male role model in their lives to fill the void in their hearts!This book is so well written and draws you into the world of a devious monster that appeared so normal to the people on the outside.
David Brown has got to be one of the most despicable individuals Ms. Rule has ever written about - - not only did he instigate the murder of his wife (whom he had been involved with since she was a young teenager) but his original plan had his daughter dying from a "suicide" after the crime, he molested his wife's younger sister for years, before marrying her to insure her silence and thought nothing of leaving his baby daughter by his murdered wife without a mother.
"If You Really Loved Me" by Ann Rule shows how David Brown was able to manipulate his 14 year old daughter (Cinnamon) and his wife's teenage sister (Patti) in a plot that would ultimately end in Linda Brown's death.I think what gets me most about true crime books is that you have to wonder sometimes how can people be this awful to another person and you shake your head at the evidence that comes out via the investigators, forensics, and witnesses.
The true story of David Brown, 36, a wealthy computer whiz and psychopath, who persuades his 16-year-old sister-in-law, Patti (whom he’d started grooming for sex from the age of 11) and his 14-year-old daughter, Cinnamon, to rid him of his 22-year-old 5th wife, Linda, mother of baby Krystal.
Five years down the road, incarcerated indefinitely in a prison for Young Offenders, Cinnamon, whose father is paying her little attention, learns about the new baby about the same time as one of the original investigators, never satisfied with the resolution of the case, contacts her … and Cinnamon gives him a more accurate account of the murder.
Most of them were 15 years old when David began having sex with them.
David had married Brenda, his first wife, when both were 17.
Both had dropped out of school a year before, and she was pregnant with Cinnamon when they married.
Number three and five, Linda (they were married twice) was only 23 when Cinnamon was 14, but both girls liked each other.
Linda's sister Patti Bailey, 17 years old, with Linda and David's baby in her arms, and David know something bad has happened to Linda.
They think they know who killed her - 14 year old Cinnamon.The detectives have an open-and-shut case.
As the story unravels, the true David Brown is revealed.
Even with the afterward at the end I still wonder about how the young girls in David's life have managed to survive, if they received counselling or therapy for what they were put through and if they were ever able to pick up the pieces of their lives and live normally again.
But I feel I will always be left wondering about the lives of the three young girls most affected by this man and his crimes, Cinnamon, Patti and Krystal.
I read this book years ago and could only come away from it feeling terribly sad about the havoc Brown was able to create and his total lack of remorse for any of the women involved.
While I hardly ever feel sympathy for people who take the life of other people, I find Cinnamon to be almost as much of a victim as her step-mother.Ann Rule was one of my automatic reads when I spent time reading this genre of book.
While this was well written, it left me so sad that I had to step back and find something lighter to read for a while.
I know I really liked reading this book.
This book was very hard to put down!!! It is hard to imagine that a man did this to his own family!!! This is a great read!!
Ann Rule was a badass. This story is bananapants but so well told. Absolutely loved how the prosecutor and investigator couldn't let things go until they got the truth. Incredible, and super sad, true crime story.
Interesting at first, but at 500 pages it just seemed to go on and on and on and on...
This was both a very accurate report and at the same time a world shaking thing.
Mr. Brown is one of the most despicable/atrocious book character I've ever read about.
she's a complex and wrecked human being, and no matter how awful what she's done is, you can just follow the process and understand how she was pushed and manipulate into doing this.I've never been against non-fictional stories but I often found myself not really committed to it, probably because of the inevitable undramatic sides of real life...
but this, I couldn't put down no matter what, would it be my young age at the time (I read this in middle-school) or the sickening reality of it.
One of the most heinous crimes I've ever read about.
I always enjoyable to read books who's plots are anchored in the same area where I grew up.
It gives more credence to the plot as it unfolds.
Even through there are spots that required repeated reading, the story as a whole unfolded rather easily and like all true crime thrillers; tends to focus on the most tittilating facts of the case; in this instance: lust, money and murder.Word of warning.
Do not read the back of the book for a synopsis of the story because you will be disappointed.
Another great book by Ann Rule, as always.
In this book, Linda Brown, a 20 year old mother is killed by her stepdaughter, Cinnamon.
Even though the case was deemed closed and solved and the criminal is locked up, it took over five years for justice to finally be served.
For some reason,this story seemed very familiar to me; either I had already read this book or perhaps just read a similar case.
This book was exceptionally gratifying to read because Ms. Rule added 2 postscripts on to the end of the book, one about five years later, and another ten years later.
Really fascinating read. Having read a few books by Ann Rule already, I definitely see some similarities in her main characters--the similarities of the sociopath, but somehow each book remains fresh. Maybe it is like Tolstoy said: "Every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way." I love the humanity of her books, even as they explore people who have essentially silenced theirs.
millionare dad asks daughter to kill. cinnamon obliges. i do feel sorry for her as i do anyone who has such an awful dad but the "poor, innocent cinnamon" theme is a little overdone. the story is very interesting and fascinating on many levels. makes you ponder the fathers some people have.
One of Ann Rule's very best. Really gripping and just-faintly-bizarre story of murder, double-crossing betrayal, frame-ups, contract killers and spastic colitis.
Ann Rule's best book!
This guy was the apex of narcissism. Sad story, but true.
Such a sad and tragic story.
Stopped reading on 249. so many details that it just dragged on and on for me.
The beginning was good, but the trial portion towards the end became repetitive of what was already discussed. A great true crime book.
finished, finally
Made me think you never truly know someone even if that person is your husband or long term lover!!
But it was from the recommendation of that podcast that I wanted to start reading a little but of Ann Rule.
The way Ann Rule describes everything, it hardly feels like non-fiction.
It's almost written from an omnipotent third person point of view, until the very very end where we get to see things from Ann Rule's point of view.
It's not really a spoiler to say that Ann Rule is a writer and interviews people, and we get to be apart of her interview.
You can't have 100% hype the whole time.
As other reviewers have mentioned, it can be repetitious, but I thought it worked very well.
The original detectives uncovered part of the story, then further investigation uncovers more, and the various trials uncover more, etc.
That's how a lot of us end up figuring out abusive people in our own lives, or in the lives of loved ones -- first you see what they want you to see, then you start seeing through their illusions and gradually uncovering the truth, where even the initially accurate information means something very different after you get down a few levels, so I thought it an effective story-telling structure.
David Brown is a psychopath.
Can a father talk his teenage daughter into murdering his current wife?
You bet he can.
When I started reading this I knew something was wrong when David told the responding officers "I think my wife has been shot", but he then answered he hadn't gone into their bedroom to check, he just assumed she was dead because she was not responding.
How does a husband not check on his wife when he thinks she might be in the throws of death?
Or not be out looking for his missing teenage daughter?
Hope he rots.Outstanding read.
I really like Ann Rule books, and have read about a dozen of them. This book really stayed with me. It shows how a person you think loves you can have so much control over manipulating your emotions and making you do something so evil you don't even know what you did because you think you are doing love. It's a crazy, satisfying book on emotional and psychological manipulation by a narcissistic and self centered person who only thinks of himself! Highly recommended if you like true crime books. Ann Rule does not disappoint!
