https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/822392.Ginger_Pye
Jerry wants a dog but he is worried about his cat's feelings, when he has made sure that he doesn't think his cat will mind he goes about earning the dollar required to buy the puppy he has set his heart on.
This book would have been nice enough as an everyday account of family life but a mystery unfolds that really kept us guessing.We appreciated the characters in this book really cared about animals and wildlife.
We liked the fact they cared enough to consider the cats feelings about buying a dog, and they cared about birds and small creatures enough to put a bell around the cats neck.
The focus of this story jumps around quite a bit -- Ginger the dog is always involved somehow, but the chapters focus sometimes on Jerry, sometimes on Rachel, sometimes on Ginger -- I can't really put my finger on which one of those I would call the main character and so I felt a little lost at first.And then Ginger the dog gets lost and suddenly the story gets interesting.Actually -- there's a chapter right before Ginger gets lost that I found surprisingly entertaining.
Ginger goes on a hunt to discover where it is Jerry disappears to every day (school) and I found that I liked Estes' imagining of what goes on inside a dog's head.
This is a pretty old book, had they not heard of excitement yet when this was written? It's a boring story with a drawn out plot. In a word, Bleck. I will give Estes that the characters, all of them, were very lovable though so this could make a decent read aloud in a classroom.
I really wanted to like this book, but unfortunately, I found it to be quite slow. I will not read more of the series. 2 stars
Right now, I have no words for how bad this book is.
I particularly liked her inside-out logic, and how she fretted about 'turning into a Wally Bullwinkle.'Re the art: I first encountered Estes' illustrations as a child reading The Middle Moffat.
I loved them, but probably mainly because I loved the book and read it several times.
I don't know if I'd like the style if I saw it for the first time now, as an adult...
Classic American Fiction: Joseph Altsheler seems like a fairly advanced read for Jerry at age 10!
It looks like The Young Trailers was aimed at youth, though.But what do the children have against "I books" - ?
The book that was responsible for a week and a half of cringes, groans, sighs, and fist-banging.
There were so many unnecessary flashbacks that had nothing to do with the story in the least that I literally cringed and wanted to scream whenever it launched into yet another page and a half rant about stuff that we could care so much less about.
The style faintly reminded me of Beverly Cleary, specifically her Henry Huggins series, but those books are charming and perfect for young readers...
young readers may enjoy this one, too, but I'll give them enough credit to know that the flashbacks are completely unnecessary.
Cute but a little wordy and also a bit dated.
I mean freaking "Charlotte's Web"!!!!Instead of writing my traditional random reviews like I usually do (I'm giving this book a two but out of spite I would prefer to give it a one) I'm going to take the time to compare this book to the greatest (not Newbery winning) children's book of all time (at minimum someone try to argue it's not in the top 5).
If I was going to sit down with my own kids someday and tell them who they should be when they grow up I'd say "be selfless just like Charlotte from CW." This spider dedicates her entire life to others.
I could even remember Dr. Kelly’s pink and green kinds of medicines: “Both tasted awful but the green was worse because it also looked bad.” It’s little touches like this that make the book really breathe, and help create the impression that the Pyes are actual people living in an actual city called Cranbury, somewhere between Boston and New York.
I avoided this book, thinking it one of those dog stories (and I've read far too many of those - Terhune, et al.).
But in this, the dog is absent for probably half the book or more!
I guess a different title would have been more accurate.
These are remarkably thoughtful kids (and the dog too!).
And note that the book's final word is "remembering".
I note that the sequel used Edward Ardizzone.
An improvement, I guess, but not perfect.
When I read the back of this book, I thought Ginger (the main dog) was going to be a hero or something, maybe rescue a few people from danger, perform astounding stunts, and then comes the day when the entire town has to band together to save their beloved friend.Well, that didn't happen.
In the chapter about the "Perpendicular Swimmer", I thought at least Ginger was going to save someone from drowning, but all they did was swim.
Don't get me wrong- there are many Newberys that I do like; I just don't understand how this book got it.
I loved the book at least as much as my daughter did, and I think my wife felt the same way.
Then he lowered his head down on his paws again and he let out a deep sigh that sounded almost like a sob, there was in it so much relief and pain and pleasure and remembering."If you love children, you will probably like this book.
If you love words, you will probably like this book.
If you love children and words, your love for the book is all but guaranteed.
So here's the thing.
I read as many books as a child as I do to this day - reading was an enormous aspect of my life from the get go.
So while I can't actually remember a whole lot about this book (and probably wasn't even old enough to judge the quality of the writing, let alone recall it), I have decided that if these books still come to mind so many years later...
Clearly, they touched me in a significant enough way at that point in my life, that they were indeed done well.
Whether they actually are or not.
Really cute but too slow and wordy.
Just finished reading this with my daughter. I had heard it was a great book about a beloved puppy that mysteriously goes missing. The chapters jumped all over the place and we had a hard time tracking at times. All in all, it was time spent with my daughter each night, so it was worth it!
Newbery Medal Winner--1952I think I would have liked this one more if it was more focused on the story of the missing dog. The first 100 pages or so are okay...but then the dog goes missing and other than a description of looking for him, the rest of the book is a bunch of unrelated events with a few "Jerry was still looking for his dog"s thrown in until (SPOILER ALERT) the dog is found. It's not even that mysterious, which was another thing I was hoping for. The author pretty much tells us early on who stole the dog.
Besides liking the ending* (There's a warning and spoiler below), I had already begun thinking that parts of the book were not only sweet, but also useful for children to read.
Of course, Rachel would help Jerry earn the money to buy Ginger.
Eleanor Estes might have had such a wonderful way of writing for children that they might just appreciate the mundane moments, the repetitions, and those chapters that had nothing to do with the plot.The moments and chapters were enough to earn Estes the Newbery Award in the much less-sophisticated time of 1951.
Repeating what I said in one of my updates: I'm impressed with how Eleanor Estes has perfectly captured what goes on in kids' heads.
Jerry and Rachel Pye are kids.
(view spoiler)[The dog of the title, Ginger Pye, is barely in the book at all.
While it's true that this book is about a dog, it is only in the sense that the dog is the chief subject matter in the lives of the kids.
I was kind of expecting to read all about Ginger Pye's exploits.
Instead I read all about Jerry and Rachel's long search for the missing pup.
(hide spoiler)]But the kids loved it.
;-)Non-spoilers comments:I loved how the two siblings in the book, Rachel and Jerry, were such wonderful friends.
Even though Ginger was actually Jerry's dog, it was was interesting how much of the book is from Rachel's point of view.
(Perhaps Eleanor Estes when she was young?) I wish she would have stuck up for herself a little more--after all, Ginger really should have been half hers.
But still it was realistic in the way she was portrayed.I did NOT like how the book constantly repeated the fact that Ginger is a smart dog.
Jerry and Rachel Pye make a companionable team, from their cheerful "Boombernickles" word game and outdoor explorations, to their acquisition of their family's new puppy, Ginger.
But when the puppy disappears on Thanksgiving Day, the heartbroken children work together to solve the mystery of who could have stolen him.Ginger Pye combines a warmly written, empathetic, and often funny portrayal of a loving family with an engaging mystery to be solved, and concludes with a quite satisfying resolution.
The story abounds in engaging portraits of interesting characters in the Pye's small-town community, but Estes' character development of Jerry and Rachel is where her writing really shines.
This was a great book. I really liked how the author wrote, cause even though it made it confusing, you could infer on what was going to happen next. It was a tragic story, but I think that Ginger Pye, the dog of Jerry and the Pye's could have been more longer. I mean, the dog wasn't in the book that much except in the beginning an the end. Overall I would recimmen this to anyone who loves to read classics.
We really loved this 1951 classic. It had us on the edge of our seats. We were so desperate for Ginger to get back home to his family. Full review here: http://www.sunlitpages.com/2015/04/gi...
Such a good book! So sweet! This dog was so loyal! It makes me mad that when someone steals him that the kids never got to really see the dog grow up. :( Wonderful book I would totally reccommend it!
I really liked this book especially when they found Ginger.
Oh my gosh I hated reading this book.
It's like listening to a story told by someone who says the same part over and over five different ways before moving to the next part and then telling that same thing six different ways and I was like OH MY GOSH YOU ALREADY SAID THAT TEN TIMES!!!
And irrelevant tangents ALL OVER THE PLACE so in the end it's like, you could have told the story in 1/5 of the pages so WHY DID WE HAVE TO GO THROUGH ALL THAT TORTURE?!
This is cutesy and good reading for a kid who likes dog books but is too tender yet for White Fang or Irish Red or Old Yeller or Where the Red Fern Grows or so on.
It is a bit of an adventure story, but, a fairly tame one.
It is cute and is not a dull read, but, it may be a bit long for the age of children that it's a good fit for.
If you'd like to read a gentle, old-fashioned dog story with a happy ending, than you'll probably like this one.
Men in Washington were always quoting Mr. Pye's articles on birds.
When some question on the conservation of birds came up, "Call in Mr. Pye," was the first thing the men in Washington said.
They would pay his fare to Washington but that was all they would pay aside from the respect.And,A tall boy named Sam Doody, who lived a few doors away in their block, came and knocked at the kitchen door.
Sam Doody was about fifteen years old and he was so tall that every time any little boy or girl met him they always asked him how the air was up there.
This is an old-fashioned, meandering story.
There are lots of little conflicts and resolutions, some moments of sound religious character, and some politically incorrect, borderline offensive moments.
There are also slightly humorous, exemplary, and loving parts.
I like some of the descriptions and the story telling.
So overall, I like the book.
However, I have zero interest in reading the sequel which I actually picked up from the library first.
I decided to read this one before that, but I am going to return it to the library.
I have too many more interesting things to read right now.
This book is an interesting mix of overly wholesome and unapologetically realistic. The sticky-sweet stories of small children and their dog are interspersed with sections that made me blink--such as when the Pye children can't question a neighbour because she had a stroke, or the occasions when 9 year-old Rachel leaves the group and eventually finds her way home to realize her family didn't notice she was missing. It's a fascinating look at how care of children and pets has changed since the 1950s.
