https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125956.Black
He's dependable enough to financially support his mother & nurse sister, but blew tens of thousands of dollars smuggling crocodile skins in exotic Asian statues rather than paying off the NY Mob loan shark.
The apt he shares with his sister is full of said statuary and masks because his import/export business didn't work out.
The action reads like a poorly designed video game, the dialogue is clunky and unnatural, and the fantasy/future reality is like a bad episode of He-Man & the Masters of the Universe.
HELLO WORLD, I'VE READ A TED DEKKER BOOK.  At last, now I can be a Normal Person because I've read the Decidedly Abnormal Books that Ted Dekker writes. This book was...interesting. I'm really not sure what I think of it. All in all, it was kind of a "meh" read, in my opinion. Lovely Things:  - The plot. Okay, the plot was pretty cool. *nods* The way Dekker intertwined two worlds with two plots that meshed together?? THAT WAS PRETTY DARN COOL. I wasn't a huge fan of the fantasy world, but we'll g
HELLO WORLD, I'VE READ A TED DEKKER BOOK.
At last, now I can be a Normal Person because I've read the Decidedly Abnormal Books that Ted Dekker writes.
Kara and Thomas had a realistic, believable relationship; and I genuinely enjoyed reading their interactions.
I had a really hard time stomaching all the violence in this book.- The fantasy world.
Some of the fantasy elements were cool, but I wasn't overly interested in the world overall.
I don't know how to describe this, but I just didn't like the overall "feel" of the novel.
;) And maybe I'll enjoy his books that have less fantasy stuff in them.
Such as "If they don't help us we should nuke them," perfectly logical :(I've read other pieces by Ted Dekker (House and Saint) and they have had half way decent writing and amazing plots.
I know from being a Christian that God loves us, but Ted Dekker's portrayal of God randomly hugging people and telling them how much He loves them dosen't seem like the greatest way to present God. I know he loves us, but he does more then just give us hugs and say nice things to us.
3.5 starsI love the concept of this book. It’s one of the most unique books I’ve read in awhile. But it was not without faults. The characterization was kinda bad in the beginning, sometimes the writing was a little eye-rolly, the situations a little too convenient. Despite the faults, I just couldn’t put it down. In fact, I started on the second book immediately after finishing (which is something I almost never do).
But when a silent bullet grazes his head, his world goes black and he wakes up somewhere else.
Hideous bats chase him, clawing at him until he loses consciousness again and wakes up back in Denver, in an alley.
He meets kind people who embrace him, a beautiful woman, and embarks on an amazing adventure.But still, every time he falls asleep in one world, he wakes up in the other.
And as the stories weave together, Thomas discovers that the past, and his life in Denver, was destroyed by a deadly virus.
He wakes in Denver and enlists the help of his very skeptical sister.
Pauses briefly to reflect upon the meaning of life.
Reaches for recently-acquired copy of Red.I'm glad that I decided to reread this before picking up Red because there is soooooo much I forgot about!Like this little snippet from Thomas's dive into the lake:The water forced his eyes open and new images filled his mind.
Pictures of his life.
A red-faced man was spitting obscenities with a long tongue that kept flashing from his gaping mouth like a snake's.
I could barely finish it.The one thing Mr. Dekker does well here is create two distinct worlds and keep the protagonist and the reader wondering which one is real.
Or is it the land the protagonist visits when he is sleeping (or in a coma), where evil is decidedly black and good is innocent and naive?The problem is that I don't care.
The fantasy world is not rich enough and things are too black and white.
Things just happen to him, even when he's trying to be a bit assertive.
*SCREAMING FROM THE ABYSS AS I SLOWLY SET THIS BOOK DOWN* AHHHH. AHHH. SORRY. ANYWAY. COHERENT THOUGHTS AND STUFF. This book was absolutely amazing. It made me laugh, made me mad, surprised me, got me thinking, and wonderfully showed a side of Elyon that I really needed in my life lately. Jaw-dropping book.
She had somehow stumbled across it, which is odd because genres of the fantastic aren't usually her thing (although I have been feeding her some of Stephen King's greats, and she's loved them, so I guess all bets are off now).Anyways, I told her I hadn't read it but it had been on my list for years.
I've now finished it, and while I really enjoyed the book and how the story was alternating between our world and Thomas' dream world (and wondering which was really the dream world!), I will not be continuing the series.Why?
however, the books can also be read purely for their adventure, colour, and richness of ideas." Even if you are not a Christian, I believe you will enjoy this book because it IS a metaphor.
There is no preaching, if you have a Biblical world-view you will just have a deeper appreciation for the story and Dekker's amazing writing.Although I have been a Christian my entire life and have read the Bible cover to cover, I was surprised when I finally understood the plot-line of this book.
I actually wept as I understood Christian truths in a fresh and impactful way.
Si bien el libro maneja conceptos geniales y me agrada el estilo del autor, la historia se volvió demasiado reiterativa y me estanqué de una forma horrible. No poder avanzar con este y que sea una serie, no me entusiasma a concluirlo. Probablemente sea forzarme a terminarlo para nada, ya que dudo que la historia termine en este tomo, y no sé si quiero leer los demás libros cuando ni siquiera me siento capaz de leer este hasta el final.De momento, lo abandono.
The Circle series is a great read. For a religious writer, he's not preachy. Love the fantasy world, love the main characters, and love how long the series is as ONE big story that intertwines with his other book series.Read them all.
I first read this all the way back in 2006, and it still holds up today. An exciting, fantastical thrill ride that grips you, this is a wonderful book. Even though I've read them before, I can't wait to try Red and White again!
Reserving final judgment until I complete the trilogy...this was just window dressing to me.
I don't plan to spill a lot, but to discuss why I rate the book as I do I need to reference a couple of things in the book.(view spoiler)[The set-up for this book has to do with Thomas "flitting" back and forth between 2 worlds that are apparently the present and "a" future or maybe "a possible" future.
Then he informs the CDC that a giant fuzzy white talking bat warned him in a dream about the vaccine.Right.It doesn't even work for me within the story...he'd have been carted off when he started his chocking scene.
3.75……….The first thing I liked about this book is that its storyline was something I’d never read before.
As the story goes on, each time he falls asleep, he wakes up in the other reality, either Denver or the fantastical forests.
Whenever he wakes up in one reality, he thinks the other one is a dream because he can’t distinguish which one is his real life.
Reading this book I could definitely see that now.
I also liked the fact that for a while you start to question yourself, which of those dreams ARE real?
Or what if you lived in a world after the world we know ended but you were reliving those historical times in your dreams.
What if you didn't know which was the dream and which was real?
And the closer to the end of the book, the more intense it all grows!
Although I am as huge a fan of the government/science parts.
Those pulled me from the fantastic questioning of things.
A mix of science, fantasy with special fruit and mater and talking bats and a pending doom!
Must read the next book NOW kind of ending .
Without any idea of the powerful wow factor of this novel I began reading and would not have put the book down had it of been for the fact that the bus had to stop and let us out.Black is the story of a man caught between two worlds.
Now I'm sure some people would think that including Christian themes into a story lessens the impact of the novel.
In Black the Christian themes are simply more prevalent than in other novels.
Like any good writer Ted Dekker creates a tale that can read two ways.
This one-dimensionality holds true with other plot concepts like the "Great Romance"; I understand it's importance but there's no description of its appeal (and why I as a reader should desire it) and I don't really care about it.
The premise is just really frustrating since NO ONE in either world believes Tom for the majority of the book until something horrible happens.
Not a lot happens in this book in terms of larger plot development and combined with the lack of character development, the story falls flat.The major flaw of the book, though, is its failure to successfully mix genres.
The story ends on a high note and only promises a more delectable part 2 that I can't wait to read.The book starts innocently enough; Thomas is on his way back home in Denver when a shooting brings him down into another reality.
Ted Dekker takes an enormous plunge with this novel and delivers something that is beyond reading, this book shook me to the core and left me panting for more, wonderful, strong and fast and well thought out.
I liked it. It was creative, but I didn't bond with the characters as much as I would have liked, but I'll still read the next one. :)
His writing style is easy to engage with and is compelling, but it is the first half-fantasy, half-mainstream fiction I've ever read.
The story is about a man who finds himself living in two worlds - the "real" world (aka - the mainstream fiction writing) and a "dream" world (aka - definitely fantasy genre).
He passes back and forth between these two worlds, never knowing which one is the real one, but the author has a definite agenda in where he wants to go with his writing.
This is a Christian Fiction book and at first look, I would never have known.
I did enjoy this book and would have given it 4 stars except for some parts that I found a bit boring and a little ridiculous ...
The story was exciting and the last 100 pages (1/4 of the book) kept me awake most of the night.
Each time he falls asleep or loses conciousness, he wakes up in the other place to the point that he doesn't know which reality is real and which is a dream.
It is also a "world is coming to an end" story and Tom is the only one who knows and he has to convince others.
Descubrí al autor a través del libro Blink y me encanta su estilo. Comencé a leer esta saga con muchísima expectativas, y no me defraudó su primera entrega.Negro, es una historia diferente, narrada en dos tiempos que te hacen dudar de cuál es el verdadero, y hasta donde juzgas en cada momento la cordura del protagonista.La trama engancha por completo, y aunque quedan muchas cosas que explicar... le daré la oportunidad con los demás de la saga.
That even though I did like this book -- that I really don't mind this series too terribly much -- that it does nothing to change my opinion of the state of Christian publishing.
Should I tell you that while Ted Dekker holds true to his renown as a action-packed best-selling adrena-author persona and that this same persona undermines a potentially epic story?
But what I don't understand is how these protagonists who don't believe in God come waltzing onto the scene embued with any number of supernatural gifts and yet they lack any real flaws.
Regarding the love of Elyon, symbolic of God, the character of young Johan tells Thomas: "Do you know why we love beautiful flowers?
In one way or another, everything we do it tied to this unfolding story of love between us and Elyon."Exchanges like this between the characters made the eventual Fall of man all the more tragic toward the end of the book.
What a great picture of the love of Christ for us!Also, Dekker did a fantastic job explaining the role of evil in this 'other Earth' that Thomas visited, and the need for free will in mankind.
I will tell you that having read Green first I was able to jump with both feet i to the story laid out in Black and my level of understanding was much higher than it might have been had I just been learning about the worlds of Thomas.In Black we're introduced to the steps that were taken to release the Raisan Virus into the world.
As much as I want to pick up Red and read I feel as if I need to take a deep breath, relax a little and mentally gear myself up for another jump into the story.
Put that in a book and you'll get Ted Dekker's first book in the Circle Series.Valborg Svensson a multi-billionaire aiming for global supremacy tried to get his hands on the supreme cure for common illnesses- the Raison Vaccine.
Unknown to the creator (Monique de Raison) the vaccine mutates to a deadly virus when heated at 179.47 degrees for two hours.After it mutates the supposedly cure for common ailments then becomes a highly infectious, airborne virus with a three- week incubation period, that could wipe out humanity from the face of the planet.
It was a book with some issues I thought, but with an interesting premise ......
I'm still not sure about it, even at the end of the book (if you can call it that), because that's my second issue.
The initial story isn't resolved in any way, despite the fact that the book ends.
Plus it ends on a complete cliff hanger - more like a tv stunt to keep the viewer enticed to come back for next season.
In a book, I'm not sure if it's quite as successful as I felt more pissed off than enticed.
Just keeping my fingers crossed that the second book has a proper ending.
