https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15505346-on-the-island
I read it once a year ago and absolutely adored it but it was in my pre-review writing days and so, now that I’ve re-read it, I just wanted to tell you all how much I absolutely adored this story.Its one of those stories that reminds you that true love can be found in the least likely of places and that, no matter what other people think, you should always follow your heart.When an unfortunate plane crash strands them together on a small uninhabited island in the Maldives, 16-year-old TJ, a high school student in remission from cancer, and his 30-year-old summer tutor Anna are forced to depend on each other for survival as they wait to be rescued.And wait.And wait and wait and wait.Weeks turn to months and eventually to years with no sign of rescue on the horizon.But as their time on the island passes, Anna is faced with the reality that the boy she came to the island with is now becoming a man.First of all you need to know that TJ isn’t like most other teens.
Yes! This book is getting all the stars! Anna is a thirty year old teacher who has agreed to tutor a 17 year old that has recently gone into remission from cancer. The treatments caused him to get behind at school so his family decides to spend the summer with a tutor to catch him up. This family has some cash though so they are headed to their summer rental in the Maldives.The family has already left leaving Anna and her student TJ to join them. The small plane that is taking them to join the f
The small plane that is taking them to join the family though has some problems and the pilot ends up having an heart attack during the trip.
Anna and TJ end up shipwrecked together, hoping that a rescue plane is on the way.I LOVE THESE KINDS OF STORIES!!
They also have always in the backs of their minds that his cancer could come back.Now I'm sure you are going to read some reviews that say that this book wasn't the best written piece of literature, but so what?
(Don't say anything here, because I'm older than my husband and went through some of the same misgivings that Anna did).
“It would always be summer on the island.” This was such a warm book hug *heart eyes* _____________ The Plot I'm late to the love for this book. On The Island has been on my tbr for the longest of time for one thing and one thing only; the premise. The story that Graves writes is so one-of-a-kind and unique (which is pretty hard to find in the Romance genre) that it begs it's readers to give it a go.   “I don't fit in your world.""Neither do I," he said, his expression tender yet resolute. "So
Packing her bags and leaving behind her boyfriend, John she hopes on a plane with her whole summer planned.
pun intended) Anna and T.J survive the crash but have to learn to survive in isolation on an island.
Stuck on an island, learning how to find food, water and shelter is hard enough...
Although, the writing was mediocre - the author really does a good job with imagery and you end up being on the island with Anna and T.J. I read this in one sitting and it was like having a hot chocolate on a cold wintry night.
I saw a friend reading this just seconds ago -- and after so much craziness around here in the last 17 hours ....Oh, I'm in the mood for a fun escape get-a-way book like this ....
it's was pure female fun escape fantasy enjoyment...
UPDATE: (in Honor of Monkey-Girl)...I'm not sure why I gave this 3 stars -back when I read it.
I must have been embarrassed by how much I enjoyed this 'chick' book --which was great fantasy --filled with 'steam'.
Some of these beach books would make me gag...This one...got me hot and bothered!
:)Pure enjoyment Fantasy!!
The book is anything but boring!
Here is the slightest of teases, again hoping you will mainly go in blind and be mesmerized by this story and it's characters .....On board a seaplane hopping from one island of The Maldives to their destination island two hours away, it crashes into the Indian Ocean, due to the pilot dying before the plane ever hits the water.
Anna is a sophomore English teacher and is spending the next couple of months with T.J. and his parents, on an island in the middle of the Indian Ocean.
It's one of the few 'hyped' books I've read lately that really live up to the hype.
The book description didn't sound like my cuppa, and in a way it wasn't, but the author really made this one work and made me a believer.
13 1/2 years actually, but by the time the romance happens they were both equal in all ways important: two fully grown adults living alone with the barest resources for their creature comfort and survival, and no longer believing in ever joining the real world again.
Just an odd but beautiful love.This story is a self published indie book, so yes it has some rough spots.
I’m skeptical, I don’t believe it.
I mean, she wrote about two people living on a island, how entertaining could that possibly be?
But when Anna found the chicken and named him Chicken, and made the animal her "pet", I could understand it...To the romance.
But I liked that Anna was conscious of the age difference.
If I knew how to fist pump, I think I would have at that moment....The irony is not lost on me that this would be a book I would pick if I truly WAS stranded on an island.
If you are someone who, like me, tends to shy away from books involving sickness and/or tragedy, don't cross this one off your list; its focus lies on a very positive outcome and is substantially more encouraging than it is tragic.
Together they face hardships, fatigue, sickness, and despair...as their hope for being rescued dwindles with time.
It is then that you'll find all the unnecessary worries and petty desires stripped away, leaving behind only what truly matters in life...And I loved being able to witness this extraordinary and inspiring journey of survival.
A lovely romance, an incredibly unique premise, but for me, parts of this fell flat.It mostly comes down to what I expect from first person perspective.
Not only do I expect to read about a sequence of events, but I also expect to know what a character thinks and feels about those events as they unfold.
Imagine that you're stranded on an island in the middle of the Pacific, when suddenly your only companion and the person you happen to love becomes violently ill out of nowhere:"I found the first aid kit and shook two Tylenol into the palm of my hand.
“I love you, Anna.”The surprised look on her face told me she hadn't seen that coming.“You weren't supposed to fall in love,” she whispered.“Well, I did,” I said, looking into her eyes.
I loved that the story is told in Anna & TJ’s POV.
This is right where I want to be.” And I liked the fact that their story happens over a long period of time, giving us a real in-depth look into what they feel – the fear, the hope of survival, love and the struggles they endure both on the island and when they return home.
They took care of each other when illnesses set in, each knowing that if one of them died the other one eventually would too.As years passed on the Island, our hero T.J. went from being a teenager to becoming a man and along with that, Anna and T.J.’s feelings for each other grew deeper.
They both had insecurities to work out and this took a bit of time but through it all, their love for each other was always there.I do not recommend books too often, but this is one of those books that if you are interested in reading, DON’T WAIT!
Loved this.
So allow me to explain...(there may be spoilers)I was prepared to like this and--quite unlike American readers--I live in a country where 16 is the age of consent, even for relationships between much older adults and youths, and Anne's alleged post as a teacher in my opinion never truly floated.
Nowhere were the real issues of an age-gap relationship truly taken up, even the people who were critical still behaved with a restraint I found entirely unbelievable and things proceeded too smoothly just about in every respect.
Especially not if someone looks for a well-written story about an age-gap couple!
When the pilot suffers a fatal heart attack, the seaplane crashes into the ocean and T.J. and Anna make it to a small, uninhabited island.To pare down a story to its bones - hero, heroine, small island - and manage to keep the plot interesting, without slowing the pacing to a crawl, is remarkable and indicative of the talent of this author.
Told from both T.J. and Anna's first-person points-of-view, this is a quite beautiful love story.The relationship is written realistically.
Having first beaten cancer, a plane crash and now the rigours of island survival, T.J. has matured beyond his years.While on the island this was a near perfect read for me.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I read this book in 2013 and constantly think of it whenever someone asks for a romance recommendation.
However, my own rating sat at 3.5 Stars all these years so I decided to give it a re-do in order to find out WTF was going on.
T.J. does not share his mother’s excitement (especially after learning 30-year old teacher Anna will be tagging along as a tutor to get him up to speed with his schoolwork) and sought a few day reprieve from the vacation by staying in Chicago.
This book brought back all of those old feelings and was the perfect summer read.
^ ^ ^I AM TOTALLY IN LOVE WITH THIS BOOKTotally touch me to the coreMy eyes should really stop leaking now, but I'm just tooooo moved by this incredible bookWhen I reached 58% of the book, I yelped, jumped around like a mad child and ran into my hall where my mother was sitting and screamed "FOUND THEM" and she thought I was absolutely nuts, but she knew what I was talking about because as I was reading this book, I keep telling her about it and gushing about the absolutely amazing story I'm reading.
What an AMAZING book, Its like a totally must read.
A very realistic, heartwarming, and thought-provoking read, On the Island will always remain a top favorite on my shelf!The story is told from dual POVs. Enter Anna, a 30 year old English teacher who is hired to tutor T.J. all summer in the Maldives.
I have no doubt in my mind that if T.J. and Anna didn’t land up on their island, they probably wouldn’t have ended up pursing a relationship together; however, some things in life happen unexpectedly and it’s unfortunate they got dished this plate.
Anna is a thirty-year old teacher who has accepted a tutoring job on a Maldives island over the summer.
Anna is to tutor to sixteen year-old T.J., while he and his family vacation in this island paradise.
Anna is more than happy to do this, she needs to get away to make a major decision in her life.
T.J. would've rather stayed at home with his friends than be on an island alone with his tutor and family for the entire summer.
La diferencia de edad entre ellos es el otro gran protagonista de esta historia, que sería totalmente distinta con los papeles invertidos.
El único pero que le pongo es que la forma de escribir de la autora es un poco fría y despegada, con lo que a veces costaba entrar en la cabeza y el corazón de los protagonistas.
Me declaro fan de este chico, los gestos y detalles que tiene para con ella a lo largo de todo el libro son maravillosos sin ser cursis.Han pasado casi 4 meses desde que leí este libro y de vez en cuando vuelve a mi memoria, reflejo del impacto que me causó su lectura, por lo que he decidido cambiar mi puntuación, subirle media estrella y ponerle 5 (270617)
Final rating: 5/5 stars  Buddy read with my darlings Nab & Basuhi  & Pavlina, Jerry aka 9 3/4 and Monisha (click on names to see their reviews)   "I don't fit in your world.""Neither do I," he said, his expression tender yet resolute. "So let's make our own. We've done it before.”  This was interesting and nice book, with a different setting from usual and refreshing love story. I liked it and enjoyed it and i am glad that i have read it! This is a story of two people, Anna and T.J. who
This was interesting and nice book, with a different setting from usual and refreshing love story.
This is a story of two people, Anna and T.J. who are trapped on the lone island when their plane crashed.
This book is told from both Anna's and T.J.'s perspective, and i loved reading about them both.
Despite their age difference, i supported them, because you can't chose who you love - and they had only each other.
Different, not usual, but slow and romantic story of two people who made a tiny world of their own.
With every page, I kept asking myself, why did this author self publish? Who was the fool that turned her down? Her writing is extremly polished, her character's are deeply likeable. I could not put it down! The only part I found unbelievable were in fact, the dolphins :)I am an immediate and lifelong fan of this author.
My goodness...what a WONDERFUL book!!Anna Emerson is a 30 year old English teacher who is offered a job tutoring 16 year old, T.J. Callahan at his family's summer rental in the Maldives.
However, Anna jumps at the chance to spend the entire summer in a perpetual vacation atmosphere and she'll also have tme to think about her 8 year relationship with a man who cannot commit to marriage or a family.
I adore the fact that this author took a chance to make this story less "convenient" with a hero and heroine who had a 13 year age difference.
T.J.'s younger age, helped Anna stay hopeful and keep her own youthful, fun-loving side.
Revie to come soon :))Buddy read with Kristalia,Nab,Basuhi,9 3/4 (Jerry :)) )Monisha on 9th July :))
What a beautiful story this was.First, off, I would like to thank my friends who have taken the time to read books like these and recommend them to me.
This could possibly come from the slow-build, but I'd more likely accredit the fact to real-life hardships being pushed to the forefront.
I felt like every step of this book was written carefully and sensitively, in such a way that anyone would be able to relate in one form or another.
Simply put, there is beauty to be found in most everything, if only you would take the time to look for it.This just made me smile :"What's it like being with her?
Anna was so strong and composed, and TJ, forced to become a man at young age, handled his circumstances better than most mature men could.
He faced death twice by the age of 16 and I think that perspective made him realize how precious life is, and he knew what he wanted and who he wanted share his with.Maturity is not determined by an age, but the way you handle yourself when life throws you a curve, how you treat others and what you do to improve life for yourself and those you love!
Fantastic book. One of my favorite romance reads… of the year. Can I say that? I mean I started reading it in 2011 and finished in 2012… so um…. Anyway it is awesome.
The incorporation of certain global events also made the story feel more grounded in reality and my heart broke again recalling that particular moment in time.On the Island began as a self-published ebook and Ms Garvis-Graves has now sold the foreign rights to it to more than 20 countries.
LOL In light of all the traumatic events that Anna and T.J. go through, I was very happy for all the things that washed up to make the primitive life on the island just that little bit easier for them and assisted in their survival.
Sigh!! What an endearing story!! I was immediately enthralled by this book. The dread and angst!!??!! Seriously, I could not put this book down. Truly lovely, very romantic, and captivating!!!
No es el libro, soy yo, pero no he conseguido entrar en la historia. Quizá por las grandes expectativas que tenía al empezar a leerlo.
After a long battle with cancer, T.J's parents have decided the entire family is going to an island for a little R and R and family QT.
I was very curious when I decided to read On the Island how the author was going to pull off a relationship forming between a 16 year old boy and a 30 year old woman.
That added to the fact, when you put a teenager on an island with only one other person, who happens to be a beautiful woman, and is relying on him to assist in her survival, T.J. had to grow up real fast.
