https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76976.The_Sinister_Sign_Post
The Hardy's encounter a race car crash, in the heart of Bayport City, because of a reflecting signpost.
The boys stake out the night before the race to capture the criminals.
The Hardy's capture most of them but one escaped.
We won't give up until we are finish!" They encountered their chance to catch the remaining criminal later in the story while their friend, Chet, goes on a ride in his race car.
A car drives the wrong way and makes Chet crash.
The unidentified car crashes near the Hardy's and the Hardy's capture the criminal and end the case.
First of all, the book described here is NOT the original version of the book.
The original version revolves around race horses, not racecars.
The book I just re-read for the first time since I was a child is the original version.
I didn't enjoy it as much as I remembered liking this series when I was young, but I guess that's to be expected.
But really, it drives me absolutely insane that so many of the original books from this series have been rewritten.
Why is that necessary?
Just write totally new ones instead of messing with the ones so many of us grew up with.
A fun read, especially if you're a fan of the Naked Gun films and MacGruber from SNL!
I read the Hardy Boys books (and Nancy Drew) when I was a child. The stories are old fashioned, but that's why I like them so much.
More fun and excitement from this series.
Intriguing plot and a good read!
Dixon is my favorite mystery author cause his books show excitement to me when i read them and in some parts of the book when their about to solve mystery something bad will happen without you knowing it’s going to happen.
Dixon is a good author who writes mystery books, his books show a lot of excitement and i think kids will love to read books that show that.
Dixon is the best mystery author that read about so far and i hope kids will love to read his hardy boys series.
Dude, The Sinister Sign Post is one of the most intense Hardy Boys books, even holding a candle to the stupidly dark and gritty Casefiles reboots later.
The first part is kinda weird, racehorses and stuff, in a way that reminds me of the also bizarre racehorse plot in View to a Kill (the Bond film).
Vilnoff is actually, like, an insane mastermind evil villain, with deathtraps and everything.
He seems like he's from a different universe's story.
This wasn't a perfect book, but I'm giving it five stars just because it really pushed some boundaries in the Hardy Boys here.
The two mysteries that the Hardy Boys and their father are working on become entwined. First, there is the disappearance of a racehorse, with Frank and Joe stumbling across a clue which they relentlessly pursue. Meanwhile, their father is concerned about recent sales of munitions, possibly to foreign agents. As the boys dig deeper, they begin to suspect surprising connections, but even they are surprised at the solution they discover, despite danger to themselves. Very exciting, fast-paced story.
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
When their father is called to investigate why drivers of a new car are constantly crashing, Frank and Joe begin to think that their biggest clue lays in a mysterious sign every driver has run into... Dixon will please fans with this fast paced entry!
A fun mystery. It's too bad that the main break in the case was just a matter of extreme coincidence.
The tie between the two mysteries was a little thin, and the technology was a little hard to believe, but not bad overall if you like a lighthearted mystery.
Best yet in the series.
Never thought a mystery about race cars and race horses would be in the same book....Language, Abuse and Lust: 5 stars. Only negative thing is a rather angry son against his father.
The Hardys crack another case, this one involving experimental engines, diabolical twins and other wild things.
This book was great. Some parts probably could have been better, but overall pretty great!
A racing engine technology is being compromised, when suddenly a horse-knapping takes the Hardys’ attention. Suspicious characters abound, and Chet Morton’s inventive spirit entertains, in this fun-filled adventure.
The book is jam packed with mystery and action with many heart pounding scenarios that all lead up to the end of the story.
Along the way the Hardy boys encounter many struggles with Roger,(Alden's son) and Aunt Gertrude's newly inherited horse stable, which all boils down to the main mystery of who is trying to steal Alden's motor plans.
The first time the Hardy boys find the sinister signpost, Mr Alden's experimental race car loses control and almost hits the boys.
These mysteries ended up leading the boys to the gang although they had little connection to the plot.
Book Review for Quarter 2 The Hardy Boys: Sinister Post is the book that I chose by Franklin W.
Dixon.
It affected me by it was a more dangerous book then other I think and it also makes you want to read more if you like mysteries this book really hooks you and most of it is really shocking to find out who was the killer of the thief.
In this book you do not expect the outcome at all and you don’t suspect the people that are the suspects like it could be the maid in the house or it could be the
The authors does a lot of things like leads you up to suspect who everyone suspects and then it won’t even be him it will be this suspect that doesn’t really come up in the book that much.
He suprises you to what will happen it is so unexpected some of things that happens so I think he tries to make it hard for you to suspect the criminal so you don’t find out and stop reading the book.
I would recommend this book to people who like mysteries these books are one of the best mystery series I have ever read.
I picked this book up to read after i read a copy of The Shadow series i had found a few days before to compare the two, as both were written around the same time.
Both do have the courtesy of the characters and the anger of the bad guys with little use of violence.
It's a tricky book to write as the characters are out in the country and the setting is very important.
I might just try more of these Hardy Boys books.The clinker is the near non-existence of serious violence.
More likely the bad guys would make the witnesses disappear.
This and the Boxcar Children are the first books I remember reading. Book books, not school books. We had a Disney Storybook that I loved, but I think that was read to me more than I read it myself. I remember sitting in the little public library in Pine Castle reading this. I wanted to read all of the Hardy boys books, but I don't think I ever did. In fact, I don't think I read any others at all. If I did, I don't remember doing it. Ah well. Good times.
I felt like taking part in a car racing competition after reading this bookMy review goes like this!Racing Cars!Mystery!these elements combine to give Frank and Joe one of the most dangerous and intriguing cases of their careers.Fenton Hardy, is engaged by a experimental race car and motor designer to investigate a series of mysterious accidents.Three of the drivers have crashed because their windshields have been crazed.Can the Hardys solve this intriguing case?
The Hardy boys have another mystery on their hands,this time a signpost is crazing the windows of a car inventors windows all on his experimental cars. in this book a man has had his cars wrecked and his horse stolen so the man who has stolen them can get a reward for it. and obviously, the hardy boys have to catch him.
I've been reading the Hardy Boys with my son for years now, and this is another good book in the series. While I did not think it was one of the best, my son really enjoyed it.The book has car crashes, planes crashes, horse thieves, rocket bicycles, and bad guys! What more could a 12 year old boy want in a book. lol
In which Frank interrupts Mr. Hardy (gasp!), Mrs. Hardy contradicts Mr. Hardy (GASP!), and the Hardy boys constantly harass the citizens of Bayport though they have zero legal reason or authority whatsoever.Also, this book had the crappiest, most sudden "Oh shit, it's page 175. Better wrap this up" ending ever.
Every time a top secret car goes for a drive, the shield turns white and crashes, it's up to the hardy boys to find out what is the cuase, and who stole a valuable horse thief, could they be conected some how?
A couple friends and I read the Hardy Boys books basically non-stop in junior high. Even then we couldn't consider them fine literature, but we definitely had fun reading them together. The Sinister Signpost was probably one of the very worst ones, but the title was too hilarious for us to pass up.
When I was still schooling, I tried to read all of the Hardy Boys books. I didn't come close to finishing the whole series, and by now I had already forgot most of the content of those that I had read. But I do recall how much I loved reading each and every one of them.
JMAR5-Dix
