https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8948.Sons_of_Destiny
A huge mistake, especially because at the beginning it is openly written that the mysterious character was name Des Tiny (yes, for those who hadn’t guessed yet).I think that Mr. Shan gave us some shocking scenes while the story was moving forward, but there is a tiny line between some INTERESTING plot twist and a DULL, STUPID and FORCED twist when the author ran out of ideas.Along the whole series I bore the "childish" dialogue, and sometimes understood the context of it.
I liked the novel until the middle of it (except for the "epic fight"), and Darren dying in the river would have been a very good ending.
2018 edit:Heads up: the "review" you see below was written by a very immature high school girl more than 10 years ago so don't take it too seriously - this is still one of my most favorite series of all time and I've long since reconciled myself to the ending and think it's alright.
What kinduva crappy ending is this??
It's like in one of those movies that's trying to be funny by making one of the characters say 'Luke, I am your father.' And he set everything up!!
Who wants a story where everything happened because it was set up!?!
never before have i come across a writer how kinda undoes his whole series with the last book.
Horrible. I'm so glad that I read 12 books so that I could find out that it was all a dream...
He invalidated every action, every word, every thing by making NONE OF IT HAPPEN.So, SOMEONE ELSE becomes a young half-vampire and engages the War of Scars and goes through completely different character developments.
It showed rejection of predetermination, and I did love that.I truly hope there would be a sequel series showing the fate of the vampires and vampaneze and Evanna and the consequences of Darren's actions.Wasn't that nice?*sigh*I completely, 100% recommend this series to everyone.
Any ending of your own invention is bound to be more satisfying and meaningful than this...thing.what the hell, darren shan.what the fucking hell.do better.do so much better.
Reviewed by Grandma Bev for TeensReadToo.comWith this book, we come to the end of the CIRQUE DU FREAK series by Darren Shan, the one we have been waiting for and dreading.
It is a complex and difficult problem -- He will be dead if he loses and damned if he wins.
Vampire or Vampaneze; who will win?
Kids can't seem to get enough of Shan's brand of compelling, scary stories, but they also address some serious issues, and show the importance of friendship and sticking to your moral and ethical standards.
I read this series as a teenager, along with a friend, and we loved the series books 1 -11, as in we could not devour those books fast enough and it formed the main topic of conversation for a good amount of time. Then this book came out, the end to a wonderful series and we felt like we had been tricked. We were so invested in the story and the characters and then this was how Shan decided to end the series! 10 years later I am still angry!
On the one hand, I think it was the greatest series ending ever.
And when I think about how this series ended, sometimes I'm at peace with it and other times, I wish there had been another way.So, I'll just say really all I know how to say.
But I honestly and truly loved this series and I really can't believe I've finally finished it.
Had I my own way, it-- like Harry Potter, Georgia Nicholson and my other favorite book series --would go on and on.
Tak... a co teď?
It was just too melodramatic to me.I particularly liked when Alice slapped Darren in the face and reminded him that he was not a child.
Darren is roughly 28 years old but still thinks and acts like a child.
Darren still talks, acts, reasons like a child throughout the whole damn book.
That was just out the clear blue, but of course there was an aside to make it seem normal and A-okay.The IRONY though I believe is in the ending of the book when he wonders if the new Darren Shan will grow up to be an amazing writer, who will be able to successfully spin his journals into workable fiction.
از زمانی که اولین جلد این سری را در دست گرفتم تا وقتی به آخر جلد دوازدهم رسیدم تنها دوازده روز طول کشید.
به مدرسه میرفتم، بعد از تعطیل شدن، بدو دم فروشگاه مرکزی انتشارات قدیانی میرسیدم و بدون کوچکترین مکثی کتاب را میخریدم.هر کتاب 1800 تومان بود و من به سرعت به آخر پسانداز نه چندان پُرم رسیدم.
یکی دوبار از بابام پول گرفتم و کار به جایی رسید که فکر کرد کسی برایم توی مدرسه قلدری میکند و پولهایم را به زور میگیرد.
البته که درباره زورگیری حق داشت اما قلدر نه توی مدرسه که توی جادوی «حماسهی دارن شان» قر
البته که درباره زورگیری حق داشت اما قلدر نه توی مدرسه که توی جادوی «حماسه‌ی دارن شان» قرار داشت.
شاید الآن و با شروع تب همه‌گیر کتاب و فیلم و سریال خون‌آشامی از آثاری با این محوریت دوری کنید اما اطمینان می‌دهم که اینطور نیست.
اینجا و با پایان مجموعه اعلام می‌کنم که  «حماسه‌ی دارن شان»  رسما از هری‌پاتر سر است.
اگر هنوز دل‌تان با دنیای فانتزی باشد؛ می‌فهمید که چوب جادویی هری سال‌ها از چاقویی که دارن در دست می‌گرفت دور است.بهترین مجموعه فانتزی‌ای که بعد از «ارباب حلقه‌ها» خواندم.
For instance every person who knows anything about vampire lore knows that vampires cannot come out in light!
yet other vampire series would have you believe that vampires are sparkling love twisted undead teens.
Do not believe in this new rise of "want to be" vampires stick to the basics like Darren Shan has.
Bloodthirsty vampires, not desperate housewives vampire version.The book is the final in the Cirque Du Freak series and is a masterpiece.
So if you love vampires who fight their evil blood crazed counterparts then you will love Darren Shan's Cirque Du Freaks, especially the final part of saga, Sons of Destiny!Zach Rowley.
عنکبوت ها هم به بهشت میروند
جلد آخر! خب دارن شان خوب سركارمون گذاشت! خوشم اومد :)))))
If you want a fairytale ending where nothing bad happens to the characters read another series (Twilight, which I also like, is a good candidate).
*Spoiler Alert* Please do not read if you haven't finished!Giving Darren a second chance to avoid being a vampire, or having it all be a dream is something I often expected while reading the entire series because it was hard to accept so much suffering happening to a child.
Also it is hard to understand why Darren cannot be himself anymore, but must die in his new body as a Little Person when he splits his soul.
This book is for middle schoolers and Shan pretty much wrote himself into a corner...either every character he wrote had to die or he's have to do something pretty drastic.Yet, I still feel cheated.
Ugh. Be prepared for the spoiler rant: (view spoiler)[ Darren goes back in time to scare his younger self away from the adventure/ events that led to his fate.
He ends up creating a new timeline in which all of the events still happen but his friends are no longer the ones doing them.
None of the events happened anymore and Darren is just a kid at the end of the twelfth book (since now he never went on the adventure).
I hate this book. This is the only book in the series that I hated. Everything that happened in the previous 11 books were not done because the characters had a choice. Everything was caused by Mr. Small. This book made very mad and sad. Reading the first 11 books was a waste of my time because of the last book.
2.5 rounded up. I can't believe Darren Shan would ruin a great series with an ending like this...
I don’t have a problem with what happened with Darren at the very, very end, but the whole talk about destiny and how the characters didn’t really decide what to do by themselves irked me.
It makes the sacrifices, pain, and growth that a character goes through feel unimportant.WritingEven though I didn’t care much for the ending of Sons of Destiny I can never deny that Darren Shan is a good writer.
That little, grey-skinned weirdo is my favorite character, hands down.Things I Didn't LikeBesides the ending, I didn’t like how boring the books got in certain spots.
No tengo palabras para describir el amor que le he entregado a estos libros.
Incluso Steve.No voy a contarles el libro entero, pero sí unos spoilers muy grandes.1.Bien, ¿quién se iba a imaginar el desenlace de tal historia?, ¿quién se iba a imaginar que Darren, el grandioso y pequeño Darren se iría al Lago de las Almas?
(Sons of destiny, he ahí de nuevo la genialidad de Darren Shan.4.
Increíble, Darren Shan, me has sorprendido una vez más.5.
Sinceramente los momentos en los que Darren estaba en el Lago de las Almas me partieron el corazón.
Por ti, Darren Shan, dondequiera que estés en este momento.
Darrens adventures were amazing and I loved every moment of it.
Like okay I could have accepted Darren changing the past in a way but not for him to have never made all his friends and stuff??
In a way it does satisfy me though, it makes the world we live in now what really happened so we actually (sort of) know the outcome.So why still 3 stars?
In a way I can accept the ending if I ignore some factors (none of Darrens adventures happening being the biggest one) but still it's a hard pill to swallow.
My final review of the Cirque Du Freak series.
I remember in the my review of the 3rd book I said "If the series gets better each book then the last book is probably gonna be EPIC!" and I was right.
Anyways this series has been a pleasure to read, and it upsets me I have finished such an epic series.
However I'm gonna go back to another series of Shan based on a different character from the Cirque Du Freak series.
This has been my 12th, and final review for the jaw dropping, exciting series that was hard to put down.
This the final book in the Cirque du freak series.
In this book Darren and Vanca finaly have the final battle against steve lenord.
it is the age of dragons and mr.tiny then makes darren a little person and sends him back to the time where he and steve first see cirque du freak.
They are both vampires but Cirque du freak is an amazing series.I would give this book 5 stars.
Ihere is always another supprise around the corner just as good as the last one in this book.
I would give recomend this book to all ages.
I can't remember the day I first read this book but it was around ten years ago.
I started reading the cirque du freak saga when I was at school at 15 and to be honest it was the huge picture of a spider on the front that drew me to it!
So I read and read and before I knew it I was on this book the finale.
Anyway back to the review, after experiencing all Darren's hard ships over the years getting to the final battle was really heartbreaking.
But the series was dragged out and pointless most of the time.
I honestly felt like the author could have ended it when Darren became a Prince.These books are so thin, and are normally all under 200 pages long, yet they take me so long to read because they just drain me of energy.
When I first started this book, I thought Darren was going to become Lord Loss from the authors another book saga, The Demonata series and honestly that idea would have made this book one thousand times more interesting.
This is a brilliant ending to the series – somewhat heart-breaking in places, but brilliant nonetheless.Everything is brought about in this ending, every single question answered. Even though it is the last book there are still twists thrown in to keep the reader on the edge of their seat, sitting with their mouth hanging open as things click together in their mind. The ending itself is beautifully tragic, in a way that you will either love it or you will have hoped for something more. Personally, I liked the way it ended but I know that not everyone did.
Es difícil puntuar cuando una saga de doce libros llega a su fin, en general ha sido un libro lleno de intrigas, sorpresas, giros, etc...pero que deja un gusto amargo en la boca, aunque sé porqué MR. DESTINY ! uno de los peores villanos, retorcido, egocéntrico, odioso bla bla bla...algo bueno? NADA!!! no puedo explicarlo bien, pero sin duda es una saga recomendadísimo! y que tiene libros buenísimos, que los últimos dos...ojalá no hubieran existido.
WHAT HAVE I DONE?! All these 12 books only have this kind of ending. Nice try, Darren Shan saga -___-P.S. hlm. 157 & 178 : Mr. Des Tiny doesn't care with fiction novels XD
OMG! Such a great series! I didn't want it to end!
It involves people from Darren's past such as his sister, Steve, and the Cirque performers, Mr. Tiny is there as well.
The plot of the book is to lead up to an inevitable battle between either Steve and Vancha, or Steve and Darren.
The main characters of the book are Vancha, Gannen, Darren, Harkat, Mr. Tiny, and Steve.
Darren and Vancha chase down Steve and Gannen until they get to the final battlefield to where they can have their final fight before the prophecy can be finished.
The place is in what I believe to be Britain.
