https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/220969.Die_Trying
As good as the premise is after a couple of deductions from Reacher about his fellow "victim", the most exciting thing in these pages was Reachers mental maths to keep his mind active.
Ok there are short bursts of action, with Reacher in a no win situation not being able to leave someone dependant on him.
For this Holly's injury was a good idea in the story.The last 1/4 of this book is where the action is.
This is where Reacher changes from prisoner to action man.
If the book changed like the earlier 100 pages earlier I would have give it 5 stars definitely.
The cherry on top of that scene is that Reacher thinks that he wouldn't have any problems taking out the gunman one-handed because apparently he doesn't deem the problem worth dropping the dry cleaning he's holding, but he's worried about stray bullets going into a crowd of people behind him so he decides to play along.I did like this one a lot more than Killing Floor.
That makes me think that maybe this series is worth a read after all.* I also give writer/director Christopher McQuarrie a lot of the credit for crafting an entertaining action/crime thriller.
“Get a problem, solve a problem,” he said. “That’s my rule.” This was a winner!I can wholeheartedly say that this book totally went above and beyond my expectations. It is a brilliant and intense mystery/thriller story with tons of action and several heart-stopping moments. If compared to the first book in the series, the plot is more complex and the characters have more depth. Surprisingly good! I can’t remember the last time I felt like my heart was going to burst from excitement while readin
It is a brilliant and intense mystery/thriller story with tons of action and several heart-stopping moments.
I can’t remember the last time I felt like my heart was going to burst from excitement while reading a book.
Die Trying kept me on the edge of my seat the entire way through.I don’t see any reason not to admire Jack Reacher.
He was a calm man, and his long training had made him calmer.
You’re Jack Reacher, he had been told.
To be honest, I don’t know how to write this review without giving the story all away, so I think I’d better stop right here.
The woman, Holly, claims to be a FBI and there are other interesting facts about her which would revealed as the story progresses.In case you don’t know who Reacher is – he is Sherlock Holmes & Rambo combined.
Child has also brought out the soft side of Reacher – his emotional reaction when he thought that his mistakes would lead to the deaths of innocent people, his dilemma over killing dangerous dogs acting under orders – nothing truly original but some efforts were made at fleshing out his character.Second, the character of Holly.
Ex-military MP drifter Jack Reacher gets into trouble again and fights, kicks, breaks and shoots his way out.So this is the way its going to be … and that’s cool.
While Child has Reacher making some astute social and cultural observations, this is nowhere near the level of subtly intellectual commentary MacDonald was able to pull off.There’s also plenty of writing surrounding marksmanship and Child does some nifty work describing the ballistics in a technical fashion that is fun to read.What I like most about the Reacher storyline is that (and stay with me here) is it reminds me of one of my all-time favorite TV shows: Kung Fu.OK, OK, I know what you’re saying, WHAT IN THE HELL???
So, this time Jack Reacher is captured by some Waco style militia group.
Together they must escape, trust each other, fall a little bit in love, foil the bad guys, and maybe have a little bit of nookie on the way...In fact coincidence is the key word in this novel, coincidence and cliché.
Can anybody (even Jack Reacher) really pick up a sniper rifle they've never shot before and write a letter on a tree trunk several hundred yards away.
And would they really want to 'make out' right next to the grave of the guy they just buried – especially as she keeps professing her love for some other chap we don't know about.
My Rating : 4.8/5Die Trying is the second installment in the Jack Reacher Series.
Die Trying is wrote in a third person perspective where as the first book was in first person.
I really loved the person perspective but the third person perspective covered more ground.
The characters are well written and yeah, The dialogues are exceptionally good and correct for the characters who speak it.
Jack Reacher shines as the hero as always and the book is a very good thrill ride.
I loved it and I am going to read the next book in the series soon.
Bye, Thank You for reading this.<>
I really enjoyed the first Jack Reacher novel, Killing Floor, but this second attempt was utter bilge.
On the other hand, it says something about Lee Child as a writer in that he very nearly gets away with it, because much as I was groaning at how amateur the whole thing seemed, I kept reading, almost to the end.
In fact, Jack Reacher is James Bond, really, and even by book two I know what I'm going to get with this series.
I won't give up with Lee Child and the Reacher series, unless the next one I read is as bad a stinker as this, because there is no doubt the man can write thrillers.
I'm going to add the same review for all of the Reacher series, so if you've read this one, you've read 'em all.
Jack seems to implicitly understand that he is a unique animal/human running around on this planet and that in spite of social conventions, cultural trappings, and whatever conventions and abstractions we allow into our mind in order to alleviate this core fact of our singularity (and aloneness)...the truth of it is not something Mr. Reacher denies.He embraces it.
Understands his philosophy implicitly, revels in his physical being,his conventions and values.
Child never passes up any opportunity to make Reacher 'look good', but it keeps backfiring.My breaking point came in a horse barn.
The heroine just had her bad knee kicked a few times.
Does Reacher check his pockets for keys, like maybe to the van?
Besides, accepting just made Reacher look stupid.
Child paints this guy like a cross between Bo Radley & Hannibal Lector.
And the guy is hiring people, then killing them, just to be evil, I guess.
Killing people in a rural area where everyone knows everyone else's business is just stupid.
In this, his second outing, ex-Army Major Jack Reacher is minding his own business, walking past a dry cleaning shop in Chicago, when an attractive young woman emerges from the shop with nine bags of expensive clothes, a bad knee, and a crutch.
To say that most of the Reacher novels are better than this one is not to suggest in any way that it's a bad book, but clearly at this point, Child was still working his way into what would become an excellent series.
This could have been very good, at HALF the length.The best thing: I very much enjoy Child's strong female roles.
Ugh.As usual, the start was great, and the climax was fun albeit far too long.I will continue with the series in the hope that Child reigns in his verbiage.One thing about the climax: (view spoiler)[Where's the huge hole in the road?
A ton of explosives on a highway is going to make a big hole.
(hide spoiler)](The woman blushes once in this book)Notes:Glock 17, first chapter kidnap sceneSeventeen rounds to a magazine, hence the name.
It wasn't bad.
The book was on its way to a four star rating for sure and then it just seemed to slow down.
The plot moved nicely, and the interjections of deep thought by Reacher added to the story.At some point I felt like it became an escape and get captured version of Groundhog Day. Its kind of ironic when I think about when I read it.
It wasn't a bad read, it just felt like more of the same.
After awhile I started to just want to get it over with.The ending was definitely satisfying and I like the character Jack Reacher, but I was bored for a little while.3.5 stars
And yet, of course, I had to find out.One nice thing about vicarious suspense is that, no matter what may befall the characters, the reader almost always survives.As usual with books by Lee Child, I learned a great deal about things worth knowing that I wouldn't want to experience first hand (in this case, having to do with extreme right-wing militias).
I now know a great deal more than I knew without necessarily having learned much in the way of new facts.This book has a great many characters and subplots, and it seemed as though (uncharacteristically) the author didn't always maintain perfect control of them all.
Like having a love scene just after Holly & Reacher discover the dead body of the FBI spy who was discovered and was basically crucified by the 'bad guys'.
Plus, then when Holly is finally rescued from being kidnapped, instead of running to her Dad first she runs to Reacher.
The clincher was at the very end when they kill the guy driving the car loaded with explosives and then Reacher & Holly say there goodbye as its come to fruition that Holly and her supervisor McGrath are in love with each other.
The story dragged on and the ending was lame.
I started the Reacher (as everyone calls Jack, Reacher) books a while back and have since picked up one now and then.
That said it is the second in the series so I live in hope that the books will get better.
Here the plot is rather weak and as always there's a certain implausibility about Reacher altogether.The book does deliver on the action as that's sort of the signature of this series.
I started the Reacher (as everyone calls Jack, Reacher) books a while back and have since picked up one now and then.
That said it is the second in the series so I live in hope that the books will get better.
Here the plot is rather weak and as always there's a certain implausibility about Reacher altogether.The book does deliver on the action as that's sort of the signature of this series.
"If you go down to the woods today...you are in for a BIG surprise" Die Trying improves on some of my issues with the previous instalment, though there are also some downsides. Which is a good thing, as hopefully those issues will be improved later in the series. I whizzed through this book. I took the father to a game of cricket (please note I'm not a fan... of... very... slow... sports). But it gave me a chance to finish this novel, BOOM.Jack's just taking a leisurely walk downtown Chicago, a
Which is a good thing, as hopefully those issues will be improved later in the series.
But it gave me a chance to finish this novel, BOOM.Jack's just taking a leisurely walk downtown Chicago, and happens to be walking into a dry cleaning store (not sure why, but there you go).
Throw in General Garber, who was Reacher's former commanding office, then it makes for good reading - if a little samey.
Lee Child's is on to a winner, obviously with Jack Reacher.
Wrong, surely Jack Reacher is meant to be living and breathing in a real world.
As I've said about Killing Floor, I'll say now too, these books absolutely does NOT need 550+ pages for the scope of the stories they're telling.
Mostly because Child gave a valiant effort to make the plot fantastically thrilling in the third act and there were some good interesting supporting characters, but mainly because however shorter storytime Reacher got here compared to Killing Floor, he made each and every move count, he never hesitates to pull the figurative (and literal) trigger when necessary, and he NEVER MISSES!
jack reacher's second adventure is as great as the first one! can't wait for the next one!
Digital Audio read by Johnathan McClain.3.5*** Book # 2 in the Jack Reacher series has Reacher inadvertently caught up in a kidnapping, when he stops to help a woman on crutches manage her dry cleaning.
He’s certainly got his hands full this time.
He has the skill and opportunity to escape several times but refuses to leave Holly behind.
I like that in this book, Holly Johnson is a strong female ….
Brava!Implausible though it may be, Child gives the reader a fast-paced thriller full of action and intrigue.
Johnathan McClain does a fine job narrating the audio.
My mother has read all of the books, so I am lagging behind, but having heard her speak about the character so often, I decided to try Lee Child's short story, "Deep Down".
After finishing the short story, I eagerly consumed the first two novels.
Jack Reacher appears to always find himself at the wrong place at the wrong time.
Because I am seeing certain elements to these stories, I plan to read something different in between Jack Reacher novels, though I certainly plan to keep reading them.
If I were casting a Jack Reacher movie, my first pick would be Robbie Coltrane (no accent).

Like the first in the Jack Reacher series, this was both recommended and given to me by a good friend. Like the first I really enjoyed it, and have given it 4 stars, it was well written and fast paced. And now comes the but, I think, and we shall see, whether I might find these books becoming a little formulaic. As I said so far, after 2, I have enjoyed them and the character, but will he become predictable and boring ??
The first problem is that Jack Reacher is billed as being a Arnold Schwarzenegger type character, a modern Conan the Barbarian (the novels not the movies, the literary version is very different to the film portrayals) or even Bernard Cornwell's SHARPE, (read em and you'll know what i mean and thank me for it, they're much better).
For me, reading that, ruined this novel, and every time i pick up a Lee Child's novel, ill remember the agony of those Ten bloody pages and how offputting they were.
Its almost like reading a novel by someone with autism and cant stop themselves over explaining every tiny piece of every bloody scene.
The author was making huge steps in that regard.By no means was this a tour de force, it was a generic airport read if you will.
But at the same time I do enjoy the easy nature of them, I am a fan of action and my childhood hero was (read: is) Arnie meaning this sort of thing will always hit a soft spot with me.
By no means do you need to have read the first in the series.If you like this try: “Commando” by 80’s generic action movie hero, Arnie.
Better than the first book, which I found slow.
Jack Reacher helps an injured woman carry her dry cleaning and is kidnapped along with her by wannabe militiamen.
They're held hostage by these men and it's up to Jack to figure out how to escape.
I definitely liked her better than Roscoe from book 1, but I found some of Holly's secret keeping tendencies annoying.
They're being held hostage, Jack was risking his life for her, and she was still tight lipped with the info.
Jack seems more confident in this book, which I like.
I wish I knew Jack Reacher.
That he was a friend of mine.
Reacher takes care of his friends.
No matter where you might be in the world he will come and find you.
Reacher is loyal.
You can always count on him.Jack Reacher likes women.
He likes intelligent women.
Reacher looks out for women.
Reacher is not someone to mess with.
He's smart, courageous, patriotic, and extremely well trained.
He has a calm about him that works well in tough situations.
Jack Reacher has high morals.
He keeps his promises friend or foe.
Their is no better man than Reacher.I wish I knew Jack Reacher.
Die Trying (Jack Reacher, #2), Lee Child, Lee Childعنوان: تا پای مرگ - کتاب 02 - از سری جک ریچر؛ نویسنده: لی چایلد؛ مترجم: محمد عباس آبادی؛ ویراستار: گودرز پایکوب؛ تهران، تندیس، 1393؛ در 559 ص؛ شابک: 9786001821301؛تا پای مرگ؛ دومین کتاب از تریلر با محوریت شخصیت «جک ریچر» است به قلم لی چایلد.
جک ریچر در زیر آفتاب دلپذیر شیکاگو قدم میزند، که زنی عصا به دست به همراه مقداری لباس از یک خشکشویی بیرون میآید.
ریچر برای کمک به سمت او میرود؛ اما ناگهان، افرادی آن دو را گروگان گرفته، داخل یک کامیون میاندازند و این، آغاز سفر 3000 کیلومتری ریچر و زنی مرموز به ناکجاآباد است
Shit load of coincidences and an uninteresting storyline. Not half as good as the first Reacher novel (Killíng Floor) I read.
