https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92402.Introduction_to_Metaphysics
The Adorno Perspective"Heidegger's philosophy is fascist right down to its innermost components." (January, 1963)Being and TimeI read  "Being and Time",  sensitive to the possibility that I might encounter these Fascist connotations.The only context in which I felt there were any conceivable Fascist undertones was Heidegger's discussion of the authenticity of the individual in society.Ironically, it seemed to suggest that the individual might become inauthentic in the face of peer group pressure
It is indispensable if the peril of world darkening is to be forestalled and if our nation in the center of the Western world is to take on its historical mission."The Naiveté of EgotismI was quite shocked to read this blend of Spengler, Hegel and Hitler from a philosopher who is still so influential.Moreso, to read defences of his work that seem to deny that he ever said such things or that deny that his work was intrinsically capable of manipulation in the cause of Fascism.These words came from the horse's mouth.
To arrive at our destination and let it show itself truly to our Dasein, we must first learn to inquire in a more originary manner about Goodreads.
We must learn to think Goodreads, and therefore reviews, as the Greeks first thought it, and then even more originarily.
We do not think anymore of Goodreads as Good-reads, that is, as the There in which the Good reads [in its Being, and thus holds sway over our reviewing]*; and everywhere we repeat this word as if it were nothing.
Until we learn to think Goodreads more originarily, it will remain to us the mere name of a mere social network.
Something in her otherwise logical mind tells her that a spider web glistening with the dew of dawn light in a garden is a natural MASTERPIECE.
And, you know, as a matter of fact, for all our relentless logic there are still plenty of spider webs in our own minds.
Heidegger says - cobwebs are not such a bad thing.Once a group of elderly ladies had a weekday morning prayer group.
So, by the end of that month, after Adele had finished, she chimed in, "It might make it easier, Lord, just to get rid of the spider!"But seriously, Heidegger doesn't want us to clear out our cobwebs.
Last in TranslationI read this collection of lectures after reading  "Being and Time". There are two English versions of this work: one translated by Ralph Manheim, and this version by Gregory Fried and Richard Polt.I acquired a cheap copy of the earlier version, before becoming aware that there was a more recent translation.The Manheim version presents readers with a problem of comprehension, through no fault of its own.There is nothing wrong with the translation from the point of view of compr
There are two English versions of this work: one translated by Ralph Manheim, and this version by Gregory Fried and Richard Polt.I acquired a cheap copy of the earlier version, before becoming aware that there was a more recent translation.The Manheim version presents readers with a problem of comprehension, through no fault of its own.There is nothing wrong with the translation from the point of view of comprehensibility.The problem is solely that it was translated in 1959, the significance of which is that it was the first long-form work by Heidegger to be translated into English.Although published in German in 1927, "Being and Time" itself wasn't translated until 1962, three years after these lectures were first translated.
If you've never read Heidegger, this probably isn't too bad of a place to start out.
Both his circular style of questioning (and Heidegger is all about questioning, not arguing, not declaring, but really asking sincerely about what things are.) and his emphasis on close, intensely focused etymological readings are well laid out here and not as difficult to get at as a lot of his later writings on poetry, language and art can be.
It's a 'hard' text regardless, not because Heidegger is a bad writer, but because focusing in on the things he does is sincerely difficult, it takes work.
Some books, twice as long, can be read and analyzed properly within a week.
This book takes a long time.
Each sentence is so full of meaning that it is impossible to read this book quickly!
Heidegger begins by asking what he views as the fundamental question of Metaphysics, "Why is there something rather than nothing?".
The rest of the book is his attempt to answer this question.
Heidegger asks the question, finds it difficult to answer, and seems to conclude that the best stance to take towards being is to remain in the authentic questioning of being.
Key points at which these thoughts challenge the dominant liberal tradition of which Americans are a part: skepticism about the power of human reason or logic to uncover what is and apprehend what should be (contra the ability of humans to divine natural law through the exercise of reason), avoidance of reifying concepts and theories (those in the liberal tradition, once more, believe that we can uncover the essence of reality and develop theories to explain what is), question those ideas that one develops and continue questioning one's understanding of what is.

I didn't have much to do at work.
I looked down at Heidegger's Introduction to Metaphysics.
He writes in angry little knots you have to untie, much like his idols Parmenides and Heraclitus.
I read on, and envisioned Heidegger as the spider crawling up my back, as unsettling me in my chair.Nothing is part of being.
But real nothing is something you cannot say.The answer is really another question.And the question is probably the wrong question.Those ideas sound fairly familiar to any reader of philosophy.
But when Heidegger says them, you start to think you may have misunderstood them.
And while it's dense and often disagreeable, it's something that should be read.
The point is to just observe reality and contemplate it in its fullness: not to have rationalistic and empirical presuppositions getting in the way of your view of reality.What I also admire is how he returns to the way the Greeks understand Being as being the totally of what there is without differentiating between different phenomena nor between the observer or observed.
Such makes Heidegger a very challenging philosopher because, it's a lot easy to just read Locke, Descartes or Hume who have slices of reality which they manipulate either to argue for a deductive truth- Descartes- or an inductive one- Locke.
Stunning, brilliant exploration into the nature of Being and a total etymological explosion of Greek ontology. This lectures that comprise this book are Heidegger at his most accessible, intelligble and controversial. His method of inquiry and the fundamental concepts of Being that would lead his later work are laid bare in these examinations. For that, I'm sorry not to have been exposed to this book prior to wandering the wilderness of Being and Time.
"Professor Heidegger, what is Metaphysics?""Good question." Notoriously rigorous philosophy wherein it's all about the question.
Need to re-read. A good segue into Heidegger's later thought.
That doesn't necessarily mean people won't follow what he has to say).4) This book makes perfect sense outside of the context of "Being and Time", but makes even more sense within the context of "Being and Time"5) no doubt that Heidegger is a Nazi from this book (which is actually a series of lectures).6) I picked this book up for 95 cents at a used book store.

Quite a creative way of playing with language, a mesmerizing camouflage of a dearth. Message: Equivocate and juxtapose concepts in style and you'd have an audience fooled into thinking they have witnessed a novel truth. Marshall Applewhite with some Nietzschean flourish and mistranslated passages would probably be as good.
This book puts the reader right in the thick of Being's relation to aletheia as unconcealment, and does a hell of a job at thoroughly explaining the 4 main oppositions to Being that were originally, and originarilly posited by the Greeks at the inception of Western thought.
The ontological difference, if not made explicit, is fleshed out in its entirety through the dialectic of Being vs (phusis/doxa/logos/idea)Plato was the beginning of the end for inceptive greek thought.
(B)eing as uncanny overwhelming sway is too much for the Dasein, in its openness to unconcealment of Being.
Small book, big ideas.
I thought this was a tough read, which I think is what everyone says about it.
The gist of it is that Heidegger sees most (all?) the key problems of philosophy as arising from a bastardization of Greek philosophy, which attempted a more 'grounded' metaphysics.
One outcome is the problematization of linguistic categories and their correspondence to an independent world, which Heidegger sees as a non-problem once philosophy is properly grounded in consciousness of Being.
If I got that right, I can see why Rorty references Heidegger as one of the three philosophers who he thinks have interpreted the task of philosophy correctly.
There are few troubling things- a few blantantly pro-nazi comments, for example - that won't win over any of the unconverted.
It all comes down to what you think of Heidegger's framework of being- whether you think it too new-agey, damn brilliant and life-affirming (me), or just can't get over the fact that he was a Nazi (which I totally understand...)But in Heidegger's work, both early and late, you can find some of the most overlooked, under appreciated philosophy of the twentieth century.
I'm sure everybody knows Being and Time (whether they've read it or not), but there's about a dozen other brilliant books I've found by the man.
i read the golden oldie translation first (ralph manheim's [incidentally, i am utterly in awe of manheim, who also translated gunter grass' dog years and many other important works from several languages into english]) and then compared it to this nota bene edition.
i could write forever on this book, but i will limit myself to a few comments: first, i am so taken with heidegger's linguistic discussions that i feel as though i'm reading two texts at once whenever i examine chapter 2.
second, i've decided to learn german, due in no small part to my desire to read what heidegger actually wrote.
Easy to read if you're familiar with Heidegger.
Third chapter makes up for the first two, where he on the one hand puts his question plainly and uninterestingly, and on the other dodges all kinds of question with sloppy reasoning that can only be called excuses.
He often sounds like the true selector: this fits the German spirit, this doesn't.
When he's allowed to pose his question and when he takes up other philosophers, he sounds greatly inspired.
Potentially it's ground-breaking stuff, revolutionizing thought.
However, here it also becomes clear that he constantly steers being into human thought, which is hardly explained and thus becomes trivial.
This is a formidable text. (I can imagine some poor soul wandering into Borders hoping to find a clear and concise introductory text on metaphysics, only to purchase this and subsequently swear off philosophy forever.) Nonetheless, it's well worth getting through, since it contains one of Heidegger's most thorough engagements with the Greeks (Heraclitus, Parmenides, and Sophocles figure prominently) and some tantalizing glimpses into his views on contemporary politics.
Să ne închipuim o clipă pământul cufundat în imensitatea întunecată a spațiului cosmic. Astfel privit, el este un minuscul fir de nisip; iar pe suprafața acestui minuscul fir de nisip trăiește o gloată buimacă, târându-se de-a valma, pasămite de animale inteligente, care pentru o clipă au inventat cunoașterea.
What is the nature of existence? And how do we even begin to talk about what it means to "be"? These questions are some of the deepest and fundamental to philosophical thought. Changed my life.
قرأت رسالته في الماهية فقط لانني سأستعين بها في قراءة لاحقه
For those with a lot of time, patience, and brain power to spare, I urge you to read “Introduction to Metaphysics” and “The Master and His Emissary” together, as McGilchrist helped me many times to comprehend Heidegger’s strange sentences, which he packs with so many abstractions they often resist understanding.Things went wrong, Heidegger argues in his third and fourth chapters, when we stopped seeing Being in action-oriented terms and stabilized the idea of Being into a fixed concept, which we studied as if it were a frog pinned down to black wax.
Upon opening this book Dasein is being thrown into a brilliant exposition of the question of being and the occurence of an equally interesting interpretation of greek poetry along the lines of said exposition. In particular the split between thinking and being that Heideggers perceives to have taken place in the history of western thought is awarded a lot of spaces and should be awarded with adequate attention. However, what Heidegger has to say (in uncharacteristically clear terms) regarding politics is quite unsettling, is indeed unabashed facist thought and illuminates his ruinous politics.
Very useful for approaching other works (S&Z particularly).
Dasein is the site of this opening, we are world-dis-closures.I leave you with this section toward the end of this text that captures the unique and oh so intimate relationship Heidegger thinks humans have to Being: "The question about human Being is now determined in its direction and scope  solely  on the basis of the question about  Being .
Within the question of Being, the human essence is to be grasped and grounded, according to the concealed directive of the inception, as  the site  that Being necessitates for its opening up.
Certo, avrei potuto pensare che ci fosse qualche imperfezione esegetica nell’impianto filosofico odierno, che il lavoro contemporaneo avesse la valenza di continuare a lavorare sulle fonti in maniera più sistematica, di continuare il procedimento dialettico nel confronto di interpretazioni, ma che ben poco la filosofia potesse dire a proposito della contemporaneità partendo da un’analisi ontologica della filosofia greca - che si dovesse piuttosto occupare delle problematiche che emergono man mano, con il cambiamento della società.Diciamolo: il naturalismo imperversa nella filosofia contemporanea, e gli avamposti dell’idealismo arretrano sotto colpi formidabili.
Per quanto si siano mosse critiche alla tecnica e allo scientismo, la loro influenza si fa sempre più stretta, la ricerca dell’evidenza e del supporto scientifico spasmodica.Lungi dal porre il lavoro di Heidegger - per quel poco di cui ho potuto riflettere - all’interno di una di queste categorie.
