https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/837474.The_Last_of_Cheri
Wow. This didn't have the same impact on me as Chéri at first, but as the book progressed and moved towards its climax, I was enthralled.
It's not that Chéri IS thirty but that he has thirty years, that he's lived that long and has nothing tangible to show for it.
It's the end of the person he was before the war, when he had Léa, when he knew who he was and lived in a world in which he could be that person.
He's like the main character in Saul Bellow's A Dangling Man, stuck between lives, mourning the loss of one thing and waiting for the next.
After seven years of marriage and four years of war, Cheri's girlish wife is now a capable woman working in a hospital and managing the family finances, his mother is doing dodgy deals in a Paris full of Americans, his friend runs a successful club and no longer has time to waste, Lea has allowed herself to age and is happy, grey and overweight, and Cheri, exquisite narcissistic Cheri, is just older.
At the end of the first book Cheri says he does not care about Lea's past lovers, but he wants to be her last; he gets his wish.
This book is both boring and brilliant.
The main character just mopes around Paris feeling sorry for himself.
And as the reader you join the other characters in the book in trying to figure out the cause of his melancholia.
After all, we already know from the first book that his upbringing left a lot to be desired.
What I did not expect was to feel both empathy and sympathy for him!I found the writing in this book to be absolutely brilliant.
...omg...
Cheri has measured his life's state from those moments he spent with Lea in this book.
Cheri becomes a satellite, disinterested in the friends he made as a young man, or even the soldiers his wife pampers in the hospital.
I can't help but feel for Cheri (my namesake), having had moments of that same depression before I finally made up my mind to write.
To give it and snatch it away in the formative years of a young man can cripple him, as it did Cheri.
The story of Cheri is timeless.Collette must have had those same feelings to write about them so beautifully.
آدم وقتی از کسی انتظاری نداشته باشد،چقدر راحت میتواند بخندد...
Couldn't finish this.
Life's too short.I can't deny that Colette is a wonderful writer, and that the translator has done a first rate job.I can't deny that I often really enjoy reading about an anti hero, because sometimes they're a lot more interesting than the heroes.But sorry, I can't read about Cheri any more.
Colette has very skillfully drawn him as an empty person, completely self absorbed and with virtually no empathy for anybody else's feelings.
She's made him seem real, and I know there are people out there just like him, people who think it's all about them, but there's no pleasure for me in his story.Adieu, Cheri, it wasn't very nice knowing you.
I liked this much more than "Cheri," but that shouldn't be too surprising, considering my propensity for sad bastard suicide stories. What's fantastic about this, however, isn't so much the general pre-war youth nostalgia that's so common w/ 1920s Lost Generation-ish lit, but that the changing place of women in the world is well described.
Chéri vi aveva appreso che l’amore ha a che fare con il denaro, i tradimenti, i delitti e i vili compromessi; ma adesso stava dimenticando i vecchi statuti e respingendo le tacite condiscendenze.” Sentirsi fuori posto nel proprio luogo d’origine è forse una delle cose peggiori che si posso affrontare, è un po’ come vedere il mondo riflesso da specchi deformanti: così Chéri, quando attentamente si rimira allo specchio, non è sconcertato da rughe più marcate o da occhiaie più profonde, il passare del tempo è per lui qualcosa di avulso dalla sua persona, ma è alla ricerca del suo vecchio io, quello in cui si sentiva a suo agio in una realtà che ora gli pare estranea; forse perché tutto ora si sta muovendo (persino invecchiando e morendo), mentre lui è lì fermo, immobile senza nessuna prospettiva (“la parola <> attrasse l’attenzione di Chéri che si voltò verso il punto additato da Desmond, in alto, sopra il cortile … Non vide nulla e si stancò”).
Interesting book including commentary on society, love, grief, and human psychology. See my full review at www.thegreatcakeadventure.weebly.com/...
A rather disturbing but enjoyable sequel to Colette's famous novel of love and loss, Cheri.
It is in that moment that he fully realizes he can never go back; he has managed (with a questionable degree of success) to ignore the signs of age and change in himself, his friends and family, and in the city and the world at large, but he cannot, no matter how hard he tries and hopes, make Lea the woman he knew in his youth.
What amazed me about this book was the way that Lea managed to dominate my feelings about the book even though she only appears in one brief chapter and is only glimpsed through the eyes of Cheri.
In the first book, Colette manages to describe with pitch-perfect text the emotions of doomed lovers and a woman facing the changes in her life as she ages.
But the picture of Lea was so powerfully drawn that the book came together for me.
I'm totally smitten with Colette.
I always enjoy reading Colette.
She has such an understanding and love for people.
I found Fred/Cheri more likable in this book than in the first one.
He had grown a bit and was more introspective here.
There was much less about Lea here, and what there was was a bit sad.
She'd let herself go more than the passage of time seemed to warrant.
Nonetheless, she still had a positive attitude.
Cheri was unable to move beyond his own past and find a way to live in the present.
The ending was very sad.
When the first part 'Chéri' was more about fine older lady lover Léa, this one was to dive into Chéri's character. The one who 'no animal have ever loved'. His still narsistically wrestling around his own self. Other people seem to be just statistics in his play. But still one has to feel compassioned towards our flaming out hero, bitterly disappointed in his loveless marriage, craving for past love affair with Léa. Craving for passion, for youth.Is his perpetually praised beauty his curse in the end? As much as it seemed to be his blessing in the beginning.
I read Cheri a while back and while I didn't particularly care much for any of the characters the descriptive writing is fantastic. This sequel is much of the same though in this one Cheri is back from the war, at war with his emotions and still hung up on his former lover. He's in a loveless marriage, can't relate to his friends and at age 30 believes his best days are behind him. I have some more of the author's books TBR and I look forward to them.
As others have said: not a lot happens (till the very end, at least), but when it's written as beautifully as that, you don't entirely mind. For Cheri I felt some sympathy--his upbringing and influences were fairly terrible, so his messed-up state of mind isn't totally his own fault--but it's hard to see him as a grandly memorable protagonist. So it will be a pleasure to go on to other works of Colette's, wherein we get protags we can get behind more firmly.
I thought this book was good - even though not much happens.Cheri, after serving in the First World War, returns to Paris and looks for meaning in his post-war life. But his lack of meaningful employment (his wife / mother make the money) and his fading physical prowess (he's turned 30) lead to tragedy.
I read Cheri in French and The Last of Cheri in English....I think I should have reversed the order....although the passionate love was wonderful in poetic French, my thought is the despair and melancholy would have been marvelous in French...either way....loved the two
Finiti
Depressing and slow by design - an impressive alignment of the tone & pace with the subject matter. The writing is elegant and beautiful, the characters unlikeable and alienated. I liked it.
Any Colette books are fabulous. Reads like one long poem
beautiful descriptive language, a joy
An enriching and beautiful novel! Really sad though. Definitely not for the faint of heart.
