https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/203899.Letter_from_the_Birmingham_Jail
"You deplore the demonstrations taking place in Birmingham.
But your statement, I am sorry to say, fails so express a similar concern for the conditions that brought about the demonstrations." <----Now THAT is a point to ponder!
It amazes me that those in charge have to be told that.
Amazes me and saddens me.I respect what this man did, not just for African-Americans, but for the world.
Calling protesters in Ferguson, MO and elsewhere thugs instead of investigating why people feel their only option is to protest is one of the many problems we're dealing with.
Letter from Birmingham Jail Love this picture of MLK smiling!Until now I had only read the most famous quotes of MLK's Letter from Birmingham Jail but I had never taken the time to read the full text. To many, along with his "I Have A Dream" speech, this letter represents King's most relevant and impactful public statement, because it came at a crucial time when both he and the Civil Rights Movement were being heavily criticized and facing lots of pressure from both the political left and the ri
To many, along with his "I Have A Dream" speech, this letter represents King's most relevant and impactful public statement, because it came at a crucial time when both he and the Civil Rights Movement were being heavily criticized and facing lots of pressure from both the political left and the right.The year was 1963 in Birmingham, Alabama, one of most segregated cities in the country.
What struck me the most about this powerful document was King's eloquence and ability to explain why he thought this was the right time to demand these changes.
This "Birmingham jail" letter by MLK, Jr. and the UN Declaration of Human Rights are the only two "required readings" across all sections of Global Ethics at my college.
We are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny." The full letter is here: http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/a....I got a MLK, Jr. Award for my anti-racism work with largely "White on White" groups in New Hampshire schools twenty years ago.
While the first Black president in the US still a momentous occasion, as Obama prepared to leave the office, I'm afraid we're more racist than less now, with more overt racism than what was covert for many years.
The perfect day to read Dr. Martin Luther King Jr's address to the eight white clergymen who called his activities in Birmingham "unwise & untimely.
Dr. King has an extraordinary ability with words be they in speaking or writing.
This impassioned response is one I will not forget.
I do find it terribly sad that we are still have so far to go.
While I found myself writing down many of his words, one caught my eye "Shallow understanding from people of good will is more frustrating than absolute misunderstanding from people of ill will." Give this a read, another reviewer provides a direct link.
When I've gone through tough times, including sexism and racism, I've looked to him for inspiration to not lash out with violence but find other ways to get some peace from the issue.This letter is Dr. King Jr.'s response to his critics and people who don't understand why African-Americans were protesting, picketing, etc.
While reading this letter, I was hit hard with understand why the events in Birmingham and other areas were happening.
I wasn't born when these events happen so this was like looking back into a time where life was less just and harder.
I wonder if there is any public record of the response from the eight clergymen to whom this open letter was addressed?My reading of this letter, on the day after Martin Luther King Jr Day (2013), was prompted by reading Rowena's review.MLK makes a fantastic, reasoned case for the validity of nonviolent direct action to achieve the objective of bringing those who refuse to negotiate to the table.
“But though I was initially disappointed at being categorized as an extremist, as I continued to think about the matter I gradually gained a measure of satisfaction from the label.
Will we be extremists for hate or for love?
Will we be extremists for the preservation of injustice or for the extension of justice?”
I don't normally read something based on the day it is, but today's page of my new book-a-day calendar was for Gospel of Freedom: Martin Luther King, Jr.'s Letter from Birmingham Jail and the Struggle That Changed a Nation and my calendar says the letter "would take its place among works by Thoreau and Lincoln as a signpost of moral argument".
Well, then and there I decided I needed to read it.
The letter holds many, many quotable lines (and, sadly, relevance for today) but instead of taking those lines out of context, I recommend that you read them in context: it's not long: http://www.realclearpolitics.com/arti...
"Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. We are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny."Here’s the full letter:https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/...
This letter is so important and still reads to be so true and so relevant.
It's also especially relevant because yesterday I marched in the women's march in Atlanta.
Don't believe everything you read in a tweet).
He spoke at the march yesterday and told all of us in the crowd to not let anyone turn us around.
It is always important to be reminded that the time is always right to stand up against injustice.
When you're fighting it can often feel you're fighting alone but if you're fighting for what's right someone will always be standing right there with you
This long letter is the most important written document of the Civil Rights Era (tied with the Civil Rights Act of '68 itself). Direct action, the connections of all American communities, the lie of 'waiting' for justice to happen.Required reading. The cause for justice continues.
Any law that uplifts human personality is just.
Any law that degrades human personality is unjust.
All segregation statutes are unjust because segregation distorts the soul and damages the personality.
Martin Luther King spends his time in jail adressing criticism from another religious leaders for his chosen methods of non-violent protest.
Luther King cites renowned religious and philosophical figures during this letter to adress the problem of racism and to explain his reasoning for choosing a pacific method of protest.
He is an incredibly smart and articulate man and his words are very uplifting and positive even when he is surrounded by distressing circumstances.
I read this for the first time as a whole this past MLK Day. A few amazing things struck me: I love how Dr. King starts off and then ends with a whole bit about how he usually is too damn busy to deal with the haters, but since these haters put him in jail he has time to write a really long letter.
". It is of no surprise to anyone but the writing is amazing; his parallelism is unparalleled.
And of course so much of this letter is relevant in some very tragic ways.
Powerful, exemplary prose. I'm moved with every word.
I have lost my review twice now so this will be short. Read this! The text is available online here or at other sites. Dion Graham was a marvelous choice as narrator, as his voice has a similar timbre to MLK's - you can almost feel like King is speaking himself.
Everyone should read this at least once.
Sigh. This piece always makes me sad. And hopeful. And angry. And calm. All at once. And my students love it, although they can get confused about his audience, what exactly civil disobedience is, and why we haven't fixed everything by now.
Every bit as relevant today as it was then. I wish it hadn't taken me so long to read this--it is *so* good.This is available on Hoopla. Dion Graham's cadence does justice to the intonation of Dr. King.
Powerful and Deep!"and in some not too distant tomorrow the radiant stars of love and brotherhood will shine over our great nation with all their scintillating beauty.""As T.J Eliot has said: The last temptation is the greatest treason: To do the right deed for the wrong reason."
Everyone must read.
Amazing and humbling, that he could write such a letter in the confines of a jail where the conditions am sure were deplorable for whites even worse for the colored.
Powerful. Searing. Eloquent. Masterful. The moral argument of our time.
Today, people are criticized for protesting at the wrong place and/or time.
People also accused Martin Luther King Jr. of poor timing and he defended his actions in this letter.
Another issue currently being discussed is the justification of separating immigrant families by people like Jeff Sessions and Sarah Sanders who point out that the Bible says you must obey the law of the land.
King's critics used the same arguments, and he was jailed (in Birmingham) for his actions.
King was a Biblical scholar and he claimed in this letter that although it is immoral to disobey just laws, it is moral to disobey unjust laws.
This is a must read for everyone, there are so many highlights in this book but I am going to try my best to summarize the best ones.]"Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.""Lukewarm acceptance is much more bewildering than outright rejection.""I hope the church as a whole will meet the challenge of this decisive hour.
I have no fear about the outcome of our struggle in Birmingham, even if our motives are at present misunderstood."Honestly this book should be required reading for every person, not just the ones that are enrolled in college but even below.
Teaching to my college freshmen in Indonesia. Wonder what they'll make of it... In an informal poll, half of the class said they'd never heard of King.
Dr. King lays out his case for public protests. Moderation for the sake of calming white segregationists is wrong. The church that King admires is one that takes its message to the streets and does not compromise — in short, a church that emulates the first apostles. An American classic.
In any nonviolent campaign there are four basic steps: (1) Collection of the facts to determine whether injustices are alive; (2) Negotiation; (3) Self-purification; and (4) Direct action.
Nonviolent direct action seeks to create such a crisis and establish such a creative tension that a community that has constantly refused to negotiate is forced to confront the issue.
King knows his audience, and constructs a reply that not only addresses their criticisms but elevates his cause.
By taking the time to answer his critics (or persecutors, as he is in prison) with patience, logic and intelligence, as opposed to retaliating with more rhetoric, he creates a work that transcends it original purpose and becomes a meditation on injustice.
We must come to see with the distinguished jurist of yesterday that "justice too long delayed is justice denied.""An unjust law is a code that a majority inflicts on a minority that is not binding on itself.""All that is said here grows out of a tragic misconception of time.

As such, I try to read either this letter or other writings from Dr. King every MLK Jr. Holiday and I find the experience to be incredibly rewarding.The “Letter” itself is King’s response to those who urged patience to the end of segregation and systemic oppression in the South.
Indeed, he is quick to criticize the so-called moderate liberal and the harm they were doing to the cause by writing, “lukewarm acceptance is much more bewildering than outright rejection.”So much I love about the letter, but I think what I take most from it is his justification for writing the letter expressed early on - for too long, the South was engaged in a monologue about race and not a dialogue.
