https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1943993.The_Chinese_Shawl
Written in 1943, the fifth book in her Miss Silvers series kept me turning pages as fast as I could.
Miss Silver is there on a different matter and when she resolves it, the family ask her to stay to help resolve the bigger problem that arises.The writing is terrific, with descriptions, plots, and characters knitted as perfectly as Miss Silvers’ work on a friend’s baby bootees.
This was a great reading experience for me and I look forward to the sixth book on next month’s reading list!
She's developed the mannerisms (that effin' cough) by now, and Author Wentworth now begins to fill in the character that will carry the books through more than 20 entries to come.If you're just starting to think about reading these books, I'd recommend starting here.
Nothing from earlier books, nothing of significance, is needed to appreciate the storytelling voice and the newly developed manner of Miss Silver being in the picture from the start, as it is in more modern series mysteries.Now about that storytelling voice...I've been schooled recently on how very unladylike it is of me to express disapprobation of female storytellers' failings as I see them.
Her characters just don't come to life like theirs do, and Miss Silver, for all her excellent detecting, is no Miss Marple, the other spinster detective she is most compared to.
She is the owner of the Priory, a stereotypical country house, but the current residents are her distant cousins - Agnes Fane, Lucy Adams, and Tanis Lyle.
Agnes is very well off and has completely taken over the Priory, which she leases from Laura.
Agnes wants to buy the Priory, so she can leave it to Tanis.
Tanis is by far one of the most reprehensible characters in Wentworth's novels.
This story begins – as do many of the stories from Miss Silver’s casebook – with a young woman who is not quite as secure, not quite as sure of her position, as she would like to be.Laura Fane was an orphan who would be coming into a significant inheritence on her 21st birthday, and as that day was drawing near she had to travelled to London, to visit the family solicitor.I loved Laura from the start.
I like that you can read one of these novels over the course of an evening.
Loved it!If you're new to Wentworth mysteries, you're going to love this one, and if you haven't read it in a while don't waste anymore time. My suggestion is to avoid any reviews that have spoilers! You'll want to enjoy the intricate twists and turns of the story. As always in Wentworth's suspense novels, there's a delightful romance at the heart of it. Fun read! I stayed up long after bedtime to finish it.
This is how a book of this genre should be written. I have read over 2,000 books of this genre, and I put this book in my top 20. I will most likely read it again (this is reserved for very few books).
Free download available at Faded Page.
The Chinese Shawl (Miss Silver #5), Patricia Wentworth
An enjoyable Miss Silver mystery.
Enjoyable read, though I must admit I wanted the person who got killed, to get killed a bit earlier! The "detective" here is a bit omniscient and also has info that she doesn't share with the audience until she makes a statement ... so it's not a story where you try to solve the crime seeing what the detective sees. Also, it was more a story about one woman who has this incredible control over men and wrecks so many lives with it.Interesting writing, but as a mystery it was just okay.
Set in a mansion used in part for evacuees from London during WWII, this British murder mystery is one of the better ones in the writer's Maud Silver series. The interplay between Miss Silver and the investigating officer is well thought out and somewhat livelier than in most other series entries. Romance again is a critical element and the character of the villain is the same as in other series entries.
This was my first Miss Silver mystery but it won't be my last. Oddly enough, Miss Silver was a secondary character in the book with the main focus on Laura Fane and her connections. This was set during the war and is a house party mystery (one of my favorites). This author was recommended when I was buying some Dorothy Sayer novels at Amazon the other day and I was able to get the book from my library.
At least all the Silver novels are standalones, and while this book is reasonably well plotted, some how it seems rather detached.
Miss Silver is there, but again, she is background, almost uninvolved until the end.
I was a bit surprised that a young ingenue is the main character instead of Miss Silver; we see all the direct action through her eyes, while Miss Silver knits up the recaps in the tiresome tell-not-show ending.
The time and place are beautifully evoked, but the characters were like photos in a glamorous fashion magazine: brittle, posed and too stylised to be real people.
Классический, очень английский детектив
Her father was expected to marry a cousin but instead fell in love with Laura's mother.
Her father has left her everything including the estate that his jilted finacee occupies.
Laura os not sure what to do.When Laura is summoned to visit Tanis' aunt Laura discovers Tanis is manipulated and will do anything to get her way, including blackmailing.
When Tanis ends up murdered Miss Silver is on the case and everyone is a suspect.Another great mystery in the Miss.
Silver's former charge aids her in solving the murder.
The way they bounce off of each other makes the solution of the mystery much more enjoyable.
1943, Miss Silver at a deadly house party weekend;; genteel PI - three-and-one-half stars.Wealthy family snipes at each other while at a weekend party at an isolated big house.
Formulaic stuff, beautifully woven by a craftswoman.
Not spectacular, filled with bits that have now become cliches, but a solid read, with a strong plot and very interesting characters.
Comfortable and entertaining, until the denouement, when she trots out one of the oldest cliches ever, for the climax.
Not quite HIBK style, but does have the obligatory lovers, a femme fatale, a controlling head-of-family, all the good stuff.
A fun afternoon's read.
I really love the Miss Silver series.
I can't say that I prefer her to Miss Marple, but there are aspects of her character that I like better than Miss Marple.
This is a most enjoyable book, though I have to say that I thought it was perfectly obvious what the thing about the shawl was.
This is definitely worth reading and I would enjoy reading it again knowing what I know about characters and motivations and so on.
Though I'd still like to know why the two portraits were hung in the bedroom.
Having read several of these Miss Silver titles since the first one, I appreciated that this was the one that really provided a bit more "real" background on Miss Silver.
There is a long history of family jealousies and repercussions which end in a murder, of course.
The policeman who comes to resolve the case was actually one of Miss Silver's long-time charges when she was in her governess time of life.
The back and forth of Randal March in his role as a professional investigator and as someone whose youth was spent learning from Miss Silver provides a human interest some of the earlier books have not had.
“[The Chinese Shawl] was such a lovely thing—black ground and deep black fringe, every inch of the ground worked over in a pattern of fantastic loveliness and all the colours of a fairy tale.” This beautifully embroidered heirloom along with its young owner becomes involved with an old family feud and a femme fatale surrounded by a group of captivated admirers and their ticked-off significant others. When murder occurs, Miss Silver is already on the spot , doing a small private investigation. The reader sees a different side of Miss Silver in this book as her loyalties are challenged.
What a silly book. It is more of a romance than a mystery. There is lots of talk about fashion and style. There is love at first sight. There is a handsome man who also turns out to be fabulously wealthy. There actually is a mystery in the middle but I was so turned off by the shallow intrigues of the characters at the beginning that I flipped to the end to see who-done-it. Maybe the middle is good, but I was so irritated by the characters that I couldn't stand to read it.
When Laura Fane became of age, she is invited by her relations to visit the Priory, the home she rents out to them. Invited so that she can be persuaded by her cousin Agnes to sell the Priory, so Agnes can leave it to a relation Tanis Lyle. But Tanis has many enemies, most women hated her while the men found her irresistible. Of course Miss Silver is already a guest at the Priory on a different case.A decent mystery set during WW2 with Miss Silver more involved.
Waited too long to review and having problems remembering it. I remember that it was an older mystery writer (died about 50 years ago), and you could tell that it was dated by the settings, the writing style and even the cover pictures. I liked the main sleuth Miss Silver who was similar to Christie's Miss Marple character. I know I liked it enough to put another one on my TBR list.
This is the first (chronologically) of Wentworth's novels I've really loved, although there are a few earlier ones that I'm waiting for via ILL. I adored the brightly coloured melodrama of Tanis.I thought WHH's Awakening Conscience gets mentioned in this one, but I think I'm mis-remembering. Oh, if only all books were searchable online!
If you like Agatha Christie, you will probably also like Patricia Wentworth. These books were written in the 1930s-1940s and are set in that present. They are atmospheric, have an interesting "detective" and always some romance. This particular one had a challenging mystery that was not immediately solvable. Good read.
meh. Second try on this author, probably won't pick up the series.In the style of Agatha Christie, this detective, Miss Silver, rarely shares her reasoning process, making this book not terribly interesting. Typical "house party" murder.
This is definitely one of the best of Wentworth's books, it's a great story, moves along well and the engaging heroine is no-nonsense and practical, far removed from the helpless fluttering heroine often popular in books of this era. I really recommend this story.
How did I miss these books! They are great - very similar to Miss marples with the main character Miss Silver been a little old lady without the bumblingness of Miss Marple but a very good detective regardless, will definitely be looking out for more of these
I'm working my way through the Miss Silver series. I can't say exactly why I like them, except that I like Miss Silver and a bit of sweet romance is always touching. These are easy reads and simply a pleasure to breeze through.
Again, very like the two that preceded it, but no less charmingly so. It's now wartime in England, and very interesting to see how that's gone on within the context of the stories. I finished this in a couple of days--too bad!
