https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15047.The_Passion
"Gambling is not a vice, it is an expression of our humanness.
We gamble.
"The Passion" is my favourite so far (update: before reading Sexing the Cherry, which is even more fascinating).
I do generally not like historical fiction, but in this case, the setting in Napoleonic Europe adds tremendously to the ideas she develops - in her own, very special language.
One main thought, repeated several times over the course of the story, haunts me ever since I read it for the first time: "Between fear and sex is passion".
Beautiful fiction!
Must-read!
"Lovers are not at their best when it matters.
Mouths dry up, palms sweat, conversation flags, and all the time the heart is threatening to fly from the body once and for all.
Lovers have been known to have heart attacks.
Lovers drink too much from nervousness and cannot perform.
Whatever you have set store by, your dress, your dinner, your poetry, will go wrong".A small book to be experienced!
Historical setting: Venice...Napoleonic era Luscious..eccentric storytelling with offbeat passionate themes: gender & identity...physical deformation....mental illness....war...
Magical realism at is best....beautiful and powerful!
*A special thanks to Cecily.....who turned me on to this book!
What I love about The Passion is that, after four times around the block, it still captivates and surprises me.
With each reading, it reveals a new layer you did not see the time before, and only hints at all the wonderful mysteries it still holds for you.
This is a book that is not so much read as experienced; by the time the last page is turned, you are a different being.
Revel in it.May 16, 2013: Read it overnight, a fifth time, and still love it as much as ever.
Walking in the Dark is like swimming underwater except you can’t come up for air… Lie still at night and Dark is soft to the touch.” Masked kiss - image source: http://www.holidaypirates.com/media/i...Not the PlotThis is set in the Napoleonic wars, and told in four parts: The Emperor (narrated by Henri, a kitchen hand and faithful server of Bonaparte), The Queen of Spades (narrated by Villanelle, a web-footed, Venetian boatman’s daughter who cross dresses, works in a casino, and picks pockets), The Zero Winter (French troops trudging through Russia, narrated by Henri), and The Rock (set in Venice, and narrated by both).
Leaving aside the autobiographical stuff (which is great) I've read two of her actual novels, this one and Sexing the Cherry, and each time I was like you sometimes get in a movie like Fellini Satyricon or Last Year at Marienbad - you whisper to the person you came with hey, do you know what's goin on here?
Is he supposed to be the bad guy?
Is that guy her father?
If I say something to this effect to my cat Hatter, he just yawns back at me and mutters pal, I've never read a book in my life.
I don't know why you're wasting your time like that when you could be sleeping.
The New York Times review of it says that it "dares you to laugh and stares you down." Unfortunately, I'm just laughing.
The book is filled with cliches and trite conclusions that are just so hackneyed (actual example: death and darkness are like each other...wow!
I mean, Ulysses a canonical classic and its message is about love and family.She did have a few really good lines.
But she would immediately follow up those good lines with groan worthy ridiculousness for the next thirty pages.
I really wanted to like this.
I was disappointed that I found it nothing more than below-average with a few glimmers of good.
A magical book.
They escape Napoleon’s army at the siege of Moscow and make their way to Venice where they meet their separate fates.
It is wonderful to see Venice through the eyes of Henri, who gets lost for days on end and is almost convinced that the churches and mansions of Venice can change positions overnight.
Venice does give that feeling!
Jeanette Winterson pictures Venice as a city where one is constantly lost and so are the hearts and minds of her protagonists.
I enjoyed this lovely book and recommend it wholeheartedly.
Somewhere between fear and sex passion is. This short novel packs in so much beauty in the intersecting stories of French soldier Henri and daughter of a Venetian boatman, Villanelle. Winterson is a sage, a poet, with each scene, each paragraph containing gorgeous words about love, and the gamble of life and choices made.Set in the times of the Napoleonic wars, Henri was selected by Bonaparte himself to prepare and serve his nightly chicken. He did this with devotion, and saw horrific death, su
This short novel packs in so much beauty in the intersecting stories of French soldier Henri and daughter of a Venetian boatman, Villanelle.
Winterson is a sage, a poet, with each scene, each paragraph containing gorgeous words about love, and the gamble of life and choices made.Set in the times of the Napoleonic wars, Henri was selected by Bonaparte himself to prepare and serve his nightly chicken.
When the two stories intersect, oh my heart!
Wherever love is, I want to be, I will follow it as surely as the land-locked salmon finds the sea.Passion will not be commanded.
Winterson reminds me a bit of Angela Carter here-not that they write in the same way, but in that they use magic and intertextuality in similar ways, and that each have a very blunt aesthetic that hits the reader's gut with a great deal of force.I had to restrain myself and make sure I wasn't highlighting every last word-for they're all powerful, and I often found myself reading passages aloud to anyone close enough to listen.
I'm not coherent writing of this, so the best I can say is that EVERYONE should read this.
The Passion is an intense kaleidoscope of a novel- an intertwining narrative of a solider and a Venetian woman during the Napoleonic Wars. This could be a thick historical novel but it is concentrated into a mere 160 pages. This is my first experience reading Jeannette Winterson and it won't be my last. Wintersons' writing is so vivid, it shimmers on the page.
I was not sure where this book was headed when I began, and I'm not sure where I landed at the end, but I do know I enjoyed the journey.
This is only my second Jeanette Winterson book, and the first one was Christmas themed short stories.
I enjoyed it enough to look for more, and picked this one up at a used book sale.
A fairy tale of sorts about Henri, a Frenchman who was Napoleon's personal food server, and Villanelle, the daughter of a boatman in Venice, a magical city.
How they meet in the Russian winter that defeated Napoleon is a story of gambling, passion, love and hate, cruelty and greed.
4.5 starsWow! Talk about amazing writing! This book was deep, the writing was amazing and I loved how much it made me think. So, so good!
There are recurring themes and motives: ♢ the metamorphic, living Venice, the central topos of the book, the city of madmen and disguises, the city of mazes, ever so slippery, the city of beauty, sex, and decay, the city of Satan; ♢ the telling of stories about the human body and the human mind, about love and war and God (“Stories were all we had”); ♢ the idea of the “cities of the interior” unmappable, mysterious; ♢ the relation between past, present, and future, unsettling the linear temporality; ♢ the traveller’s narrative, both masculine and feminine; ♢ disputing the notion that women have no place in the patriarchy’s map of the world or in the making of history.
After reading all the glowing reviews and then tackling the book for myself, I felt kind of like the child that wonders why the emperor has no clothes on.
This is an entire book of life changing ponders like "Is every snowflake different?
This book felt like a pretentious eight-year-old could have written it.
And pretentious eight-year-olds are a nightmare.But of course, this is just how it felt to me.
"To me" the book fell flat, "to me" the writing felt self-conscious and pretentious.
If you enjoyed the book, if it changed your life, I'm glad.
Our hero, Henri, adores him and has caught the great man’s eye, so he works in the “kitchen” (tent), where he gets a bit of food and warmth, while anyone who’s managed to escape horrific slaughter on the battlefield starves and freezes to death instead.Meanwhile, Villanelle, our heroine (the author takes us back and forth), the wild young daughter of a Venetian boatman, roams the casinos, the alleys, and along the canals of Venice, picking pockets, carousing, and attracting trouble.
When I have to be out late at night, it’s not knives and kicks I’m afraid of, though there are plenty of those behind walls and hedges.
68)“Passion will not be commanded.
It commands us and very rarely in the way we would choose.” (pg.
144)“Whoever it is you fall in love with for the first time, not just love but be in love with, is the one who will always make you angry, the one you can’t be logical about.
Like most people I enjoyed the hot evenings and the smell of food and the birds that spike the sky, but I was not a mystic nor a man of God and I did not feel the ecstasy I had read about.
We fear passion and laugh at too much love and those who love too much.And still we long to feel.” (pg.
2 stars for the phantasmagorical imagery and the story. 1 more star for the beautifully done ending and the immensely quotable lines on love and passion the writer seems to have clumsily crammed in to the narrative in the last few pages.
Winterson maintained a balance between setting, story, and characters without any parts feeling clumpy.I loved Henri’s perspective lot more then Villanelle, mostly because Henri felt a lot more tangible then Villanelle—as I think it might have been intended.
Magic is also interspersed throughout the story and despite it’s nature to awe and distract, it adds a lot to what the themes try to portray.Even though for a few days I forgot I was reading this, when I finished it I was kind of blown away by it.
Passion is not so much an emotion as a destiny." This is only my second Jeanette Winterson novel, and holy shit, she did not disappoint.This is a short read, but as I was devouring this book, it felt quite a bit longer.The Passion, follows two protagonists in their search for love and passion.
Winterson's writing style is captivating and unique, and it's not alike to anything I've read before.
She shows such knowledge about history, love and life.I strongly believe this is a book that contains layers.
Each time I read this book, I will uncover a new layer that I had yet to uncover before.
3,5 στην αρχη παθιάστηκα , αλλα οπως ολα τα πάθη , ξεφούσκωσε .... ωραια ιδεα , ωραίοι χαραχτήρες , , αλλα μιλά ,μιλά για το πάθος , αυτο έπαψε Μα υφίσταται Η έκδοση ειχε λάθη επιμέλειας ... readathon2017:14/26 ενα βιβλιο που διαδραματίζεται σε πόλεμο
Wisdom about the idiocy of war, the villainy and egotism of Bonaparte, and especially about love and passion followed by pain mixed with hatred after betrayal."The hate is not only for the once loved, it's for yourself too; how could you ever have loved this?""What is more humiliating than finding the object of your love unworthy?"It's been a while since I read Voltaire's Candide, but I found some loose parallels with that story in The Passion.
My one big guffaw from the book came with his explanation of why men should not pray to the Virgin Mary.
This is a short story, that packs quite a lot in. We have some history of Napoleonic times, alongside romance and adventure. It's sort of War and Peace meets Tipping the Velvet, so if that sounds like your sort of story, give it a try.
This was one of the first books I read in 2016, but it's endured as one of the very best. This was also my introduction to Jeanette Winterson's writing and made me want to read everything she's ever written. It's beautifully crafted historical fiction that follows a young man who joins Napoleon's army and a bisexual Venetian woman, both becoming entrenched in different types of passion that may or may not consume their lives. It's about the nature of love and obsession, and it's heartbreaking yet beautiful.
I read several books a week and seldom share with Goodreads because I feel private about my reading. But this slim book by Jeanette Winterson makes me want to shout out to readers everywhere, "This is special! This is superlative magical realism! Read it! Get your hands on a copy and read it now!"
I am so glad I re-read this book. I scored it 3 stars in 1993, but absolutely loved it this time around so 5 stars from me.
Nobody here stays in one place, hearts get stolen, the scars stay, people hurt each other, they kill for nothing, they gamble and love isn't always forgiving and is seldom generous; all of these are happening around us.The first five-star book of 2018 (and I hope won't be the last).Winterson's brilliant words shone through, resonated immensely, and I'm sharing some of them below:** "Perhaps all romance is like that; not a contrast between equal parties but an explosion of dreams and desires that can find no outlet in everyday life.
I have returned to this genre with many more books under my belt, and a much more critical eye for faults.The author enjoys her meaningful phrases, which were strewn about the pages like a generous handful of rose petals that had stained many concluding sentences with its rose tint of wisdom.
She also loved to say something and then repeat it, which after enough pages of these made for strings of sentences completely composed of phrases mentioned previously, necklaces made of beads dropped in the middle of the path.
Once Henri decides that Napoleon isn't the man of his dreams after all (something he decides on the frozen plains of Russia with the rest of the army dying like flies around him) he falls in by chance with the lovely Villanelle, a duck footed Venetian who worked in the gambling halls in that mysterious city until a bad decision landed her in the same army as Henri, albeit with a different role to play.
And this is where the book starts to get a little strange...Villanelle decides that has to go and retrieve her heart from a previous lover who has kept it locked up in her house - perhaps so that she can fully commit to her new love, Henri; tbh I wasn't entirely clear on what precisely was going on.
"I think now that being free is not being powerful or rich or well regarded or without obligations but being able to love. To love someone else enough to forget about yourself even for one moment is to be free."
Henri and his old friend Patrick, a defrocked priest, happen to meet Villanelle by chance who narrates her misfortunes as to how she ended up with Napoleon’s army as a prostitute.
His disenchantment with war as a cradle for passion is transmuted into pure, unadulterated love for Villanelle.4.
We are a lukewarm people and our longing for freedom is our longing for loveHenri who does not want to simply exist, but live, finds the fervour of war as an example for passion in men.
Home to Villanelle, Venice soon becomes a refuge for the disheartened Henri who now finds definition to his passions transforming.
