https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31373.In_Pursuit_of_the_Proper_Sinner
"How sharper than a serpent’s tooth it is To have a thankless child!" —King LearReading a Lynley mystery each month is honing my chunckster reading skills! Are none of these books less that 600 pages? It's a good exercise, as this year I wanted to focus on reading hefty books (page count) over number of books. While this one was a bit heavier in content than I would normally prefer (I subtracted a star from my rating), it does make me want to dive into a classic of equal size. All the reference
"How sharper than a serpent’s tooth it is To have a thankless child!" —King LearReading a Lynley mystery each month is honing my chunckster reading skills!
Are none of these books less that 600 pages?
It's a good exercise, as this year I wanted to focus on reading hefty books (page count) over number of books.
I was just cheesed off at Lynley in this particular book.
I don't know if I'll jump into the next book in the series right away.
It's sitting on my shelf and has over 700 pages.
I need a breather, but I'm finally halfway through the series!
HA!Another favorite author and detective discovered compliments of PBS "Masterpiece Mystery." I have not been reading the Inspector Lynley series in order.
I truly believe the author is fully worth the $1 I spend per book.George is one of those mystery writers that is good at the details.
But, that is the fun of a mystery, is it not?Inspector Lynley of the books is a much more complicated man than the character depicted in the BBC series.
The BBC Lynley seems to have it more together while coming off as a bit of a prig, while George's Lynley is more complicated and introspective.
I think nothing reveals humanity as much as the novels of the mystery genre when written by good writers.This is the book where Elizabeth George definitively crossed over into the higher realm of literary writer.
However, because of the continuing and ongoing threads between Thomas Lynley, Detective Inspector at New Scotland Yard, Earl of Asherton, and DI Constable Barbara Havers, working class maven, I recommend reading the previous nine books in the series first, in order.
The interplay of Class and sex discrimination in the relationship between Lynley and Havers is spectacularly background with deceptive subtlety, and it's partially why I love this ongoing mystery series.
Ms. George's Inspector Lynley books are becoming longer, it seems, with each new installment.
I would say the mystery aspect of the plot almost takes a backseat to the exploration of motives, prejudices, and the tendency to fail to see the big picture when we hone in on what we think is the truth.I am very impressed with the author's use of language - I usually have to look up at least one word in the dictionary while reading her books.
Also, the British verbiage is remarkable, seeing as the author is an American.
6 pages devoted to the back story and daily details of the person who found the body, another 6 pages for the back story and daily details of the kid who found the murder weapon, and we also get a continuing, unnecessary side plot about the murder victim's boyfriend, his alcoholic father, and their failing family estate.I was also occasionally distracted by the odd vocabulary choices.
"Pellucid" adds nothing but unintentional humor.One final thought: Inspector Lynley is insufferable to Barbara Havers in this book.
By the end of the book, he has decided to oh-so-magnanimously bestow his good opinion, but he never apologizes AND it takes an unnecessary and illogical tragedy to make him come around.
Not that I liked Barbara much more, she was as odd as Lynley.The thing that wondered me most is how come they really thought the murderer was after Nicola?
Any police should know that if the murder is messy, it's usually done by a person who knows the victim.
If the victim is killed "cleanly", like Nicola was, the murderer didn't know the victim and just had to kill her.
This little thing ruined the basic plot so badly, that I had no respect for polices that slobby in their jobs.At least the story had lots of twists and turns, so I did finish it.
Of course his illumination comes about because of Helen, who is far more intelligent than she or her friends give her credit.
I love Helen, she is by far my favorite character, she is bubbly, happy and yet conflicted about her importance in the world.
The mystery was so involved--as all EG's books are--It made me think about the murdered girl's choices.
Her parents were baffled by her choice to lead a low lifestyle when she had been brought up with love and advantages.
Sad ending for the murdered girls parents all around.
Well this is the 10th book I have read by this author. It was 594 pages long and a heavy hardback. I'm always impressed with the author's vocabulary and after reading 10 books with the same characters my fondness grows for them. There was some friction between Detective Inspector Lynley and Barbara Havers in this episode which was unsetting and bothered me. Up to this point they worked well together with mutual admiration, however now I feared I was about to lose a favorite character. I'm happy to say it concluded to my satisfaction.
Nik has always gone for immediate gratification and stopped at nothing to ensure it with never a thought for how it might impact anyone around her.Thomas is angry that Barbara could ignore the chain-of-command and is determined that she will learn her place while Lady Helen comes to a realization as to just why Thomas is really angry with Barbara.A fascinating look at how three different, strong people approach the evidence and the judgments they make based on it, the different directions it takes them.
A bit of a Neanderthal, but there's hope for this old dog to learn new tricks!Barbara Havers has been on suspension for three months since the incident in Essex over the summer in 
Dat is wat mij wel aanspreekt bij de boeken van Elizabeth George.
Soms heb je bij thrillers dat vanaf het begin haast wel duidelijk is wie het gedaan heeft.
Dat is bij dit boek niet het geval.
Wat wel grappig is, is dat in dit boek verwezen wordt naar het boek Rebecca van Daphne du Maurier.
Zo tegen het einde mocht de ontknoping van mij wel komen.
(Deze is 646 blz.) Ik vind dit echter wel een leuke serie, dus daarom begin ik er dan toch aan.
Al met al toch wel een interessant boek.
As usual, Elizabeth George keeps me glued to the pages, and sporadically reaching for the dictionary (reredos?).I find it interesting that some people gave this one fewer stars because they hated the way Lynley behaved toward Havers etc.
HELLO?
THEY AREN'T REAL PEOPLE, PEOPLE!
The fact that we are disappointed in him sort of indicates EG's skill at characterization, wouldn't you say?Anyhow, complex plot, and I didn't recall all the details from the first time I read it (I get her stuff ASAP and devour it, then re-read in a few years)so the plot twists were surprising...probably one good thing about getting older, I can re-read mysteries and still be surprised.
I think like most Elizabeth George fans, I got frustrated with the way Lynley behaved in this book. Normally I get through her books in a flash, but with this one I got so bogged down in the Havers/Lynley mess. One of the things I like so much about this series is their relationship and it was on the skids. I wanted to hit him.But, it was George, so it was still a good read.
Lynley has it in for Havers because she didn't follow proper chain of command in a previous case, and also shot an officer. Now she gets scut work as well as demotion. He's off to Derbyshire to assist in an investigation of the murder of the daughter of an old Scotland Yard colleague, and doesn't want Havers involved, even though she's on the right trail.
And what Lynley fails to understand is that his friends, and his wife, and even the second constable he added to the case in place of Havers, Winston Nkata, all see that perhaps his characterization of Barbara and his set down of her is more to do with her gender than what she actually did in Essex on the case in which she involved herself while on leave.
George novel I've read with Inspector Lynley and Barbara Havers.
Coming in at number ten in the series, this one took a whole different tack.
While I was completely annoyed with the fact that Lynley and Havers were on the outs, I can't deny it was an interesting story as a result.
Having three people involved in the case doggedly pursuing different suspects was a truly interesting twist.
So many little twists within the twists, too.
Though, I have to say that Lynley's pigheadedness has rather put me off him a bit...
In this case, I have to wonder about her research regarding the world of domination and S&M, as well as escorts!
The plot takes a good long while to make perfect sense - this is not one of those books where you have any hope of being a step ahead of the storyteller.
Once you begin to gather the threads together, it will all seem so obvious that you might need to read it again, just to try to figure out how you missed it the first time.Well worth the investment of your time, even if it does get to seeming a bit too long near the end.
Es dauert ja immer etwas, bis die Autorin alles aufbaut, aber das lohnt sich jedes Mal, denn die Spannung steigt kontinuierlich mit! Auch die ganzen Zusammenhänge und wie sie die Morde und die Aufklärung inszeniert ist großartig! Hat mir auch beim wieder lesen sehr gut gefallen :)
As the book opens we learn that Barbara Havers has been on suspension for most of the summer.
Having just been reduced in rank to Detective Constable, Barbara should be willing to take her marching orders wherever they take her, but she's not that kind of woman.
As the book goes on there are a lot of questions about the beautiful young daughter of former police officer, Andy Maiden.
Why is he so angry about Barbara not accepting his orders?
a young man and woman r found murdered on the moors in derbyshire, but each killed in a different fashion nicola is the daughter of andy, who used to work for scotland yard in so10 and was a mentor to lynley.
he asks for lynley specifically to help with the case which could of course easily cause problems with the locals lynley has to use all the finesse whilst also dealing with the demotion of his previous side kick barbara havers and being a newly married man to helen lynley moves to the peak district whilst barbara remains in london determined to redeem herself and is used by nkita to assist him whilst being partnered to lynley.
Meanwhile, Barbara Havers has been demoted as a result of the previous case she was involved in in Essex (Deception on his Mind).
So, Winston Nkata is brought in to assist Linley in the case and Barbara is not happy at being sidelined and demoted to D.C. However, when Nkata is sent back to follow a trail to London, he brings Barbara on board to help him.
There are a lot of twists and turns and a good crop of suspects in this book, which make for a very interesting read and I really felt poor Barbara got a raw deal from Linley along the way here and was rooting for her to prove herself right in her suspicions.
Was this young man a friend or had Nicola been followed?As Lynley digs into the case he discovers that Andy’s daughter led a life that her parents knew nothing about.
This novel follows quickly from events in the previous book when Lynley and Lady Helen finally tied the knot and Sergeant Barabara Havers returned home to rest following her injuries on the last case they had worked together.
During her sick leave and while Lynley was away with Helen, Barbara had helped Detective Inspector Emily Barlow with an investigation, but her behavior during that time has her in big trouble with the Yard.
Another great book from Elizabeth George!
Lots of plot twists and many candidates as suspects in the double murder!
George writes with a lot of British slang and local jargon, so it takes a while to "get into" her style of writing.
We don't know.Thomas Lynley was a prig in this one, but as he is the main character in the series, we're seeing his rather human side.
I love his wife Helen.I enjoyed reading about Barbara Havers.
I love that she is the opposite of Lynley.
Where Lynley is polished and good looking, Havers is homely and dumpy.
When DS Barbara Havers is reduced to Detective Constable after her perceived insubordination in her last case Detective Inspector Lynley is reluctant to use her on a case involving the murder of the daughter of a retired undercover operative for New Scotland Yard.
However, Winston Nkata, his new subordinate, assigns her part of the investigation.
Her pursuit of her own leads arising from her notable intuition, rather than giving absolute priority to the jobs assigned by Lynley, leads to some disagreements between Lynley and his new wife who takes Barbara's side.
This was definitely my favorite Inspector Lynley book to date.
Full of twists and turns, as well as the discontent between Lynley and Barbara Havers, it was hard to not read it straight through.
In the previous book, Barbara had made a split second decision in order to save a little girl's life.
That decision, which involved shooting at (without the intent to hit) a superior officer cost her several months of unpaid leave and a demotion.
So that played throughout this entire book.
One of Lynley's former colleagues Andy Maiden has asked for his help in finding the person who murdered his daughter. It's a gruesome double murder and suspicion falls on Maiden. Barbara Havers has been demoted to Detective Constable after her performance in Essex and Lynley cannot forgive her behavior. He relegates her to general dogsbody and instead takes Winson Nkata as his partner. Aside from the gripping murder investigation, the real star of the book is the struggle both Havers and Lynley endure as neither can understand the other's actions. George depicts the tension between them superbly.
Another very good Lynley/Havers novel.
A complex murder mystery, great characterizations, and plenty of soap opera.
I love the dramatic titles which suit these novels so well!In the early books, Havers is a rather unlikeable character.
She's bitter and resentful of Lynley's aristocratic background.
In contrast, Lynley was very understanding of her attitude and sympathetic to her many troubles.In this book, though, Lynley is being a real bastard.
Havers is in disgrace with the Yard following an incident where she violated the chain of command.
Havers feels that her actions were justified, and she counted on Lynley's support.
A re-read for me -- couldn't find anything that appealed, and Thomas Lynley and Barbara Havers have never let me down. Elizabeth George is a stunning writer -- every sentence is a joy to read. I never tire of reading her books ...
Every parent starts out with the best of intentions but we all know what the road to hell is paved with don't we?George also explores a theme not often seen in mystery novels: how women are perceived and how the same act performed by a man and a woman has such different results.
She does take time to reflect on what she's doing and the fact that it is a role she's playing but that doesn't make me like her as a character.I'm anxious to see how Barbara's relationship with her neighbors develops.
I think the various points of view bring a lot to the narrative, while still not giving everything needed to solve the mystery before the professionals.
But I still think Lynley has a lot of growth to give.This mystery here was complex, and the rift between Havers and Lynley served to emphasize the multiple directions and facets of the case.
The whole thing showed how something like a murder investigation can bring to light so many secrets that may not have anything to do with the solution, but can still hurt or inconvenience so many people.
There are so many suspects with so many motives that you just do not want to stop.
One twist to this book is that Barbara Havers has been demoted because of her refusal to obey orders (in order to save a child) on her previous case and her partner, Thomas Lynley is disappointed with her not following orders.
Three of the four police working on this case each are going after a different suspect.
In one chapter near the end, each is going after their preferred suspect at the same time.
The book ends with two very tender scenes which I have reread about three times.
