https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28377.Heartsnatcher
Να μου μολύνουν τοπρόσωπο.— Σάς πληρώνουν ακριβά γι αυτό; ρώτησε ό Μακαβριωάννης.— Μου προμηθεύουν τη βάρκα, είπε ό άνθρωπος, καί μεπληρώνουν με ντροπή καί χρυσάφι.Στή λέξη «ντροπή», ό Μακαβριωάννης έκανε ένα βήμα προς τα πίσω καί θύμωσε με τον εαυτό του.—"Εχω ένα σπίτι, είπε ό άνθρωπος, πού άντελήφτηκε την κίνηση του Μακαβριωάννη καί χαμογέλασε.
"Εχω ένα σπίτι και πολύ χρυσάφι, άλλα πρέπει να χωνεύω την ντροπή ολόκληρου του χωρίου.
Δενθα μου πουλάτε όμως τίποτα για το χρυσάφι μου.— Πώς σας λένε; ρώτησε ό Μακαβριωάννης.—Ή Δόξα, είπε ό άνθρωπος.
Ο «αποδιοπομπαίος τράγος» είναι ένας άνθρωπος, ονομάζεται Δόξα και έχει καθήκον να συλλέγει με τα δόντια τα αποσυντιθέμενα πράγματα και να καταπίνει την ντροπή ολοκλήρου του χωριού.
The final novel from Boris Vian—sort of a Queneau for Coltrane enthusiasts—is a bleak and harrowing tale of a mother who loves her children too much.
There’s also the David Lynch village, unnamed, where unfeeling psychiatrist Timortis wanders into the Old Folks Fair, where OAPs are sold to the highest bidder.
While Tim gets intimate with the maid, Clementine grows paranoid that she doesn’t love her children enough.
It satirises the hysteria of parents eager to shield their kids from a brutal world, a world symbolised in this unnamed village, with Clementine’s conclusion even bleaker—it’s better to hide from the world and shut out the ugliness.
The camera is on the actor hired because he looks like someone you don't know well enough to place that it's not him.
What if my babies scratch their precious milk fed faces on this sand?Timortis is an analrapist so he nods and accepts the credit, as due his profession, from his lofty position of a raised arm behind her bum when the mother decides (the actress depicts this in pure soap eyebrow arching) that clasping them tighter with the effects of the new Wonderbra would be the ideal idea.
It's a bit like watching a Disney film with a too obvious moral of the story, at the end of its day.
Книга-сън, книга-бълнуване, книга-видение, която се случва в неопределено село и в неопределено време - 59-ти янрил, 73-ти феврюин, 107-ми апруст, 348-ми юлиември.Виан е нарисувал с думи много красиви, изящни, цветни и почти нереални късчета природата и ги е вместил между разтърсващо натуралистичните описания на мутиралите и изродени навици и възприятия на местните хора.
В това село, където животните пътуват на автостоп, бременните мразят мъжете за болките и мъките, които са им причинили и не ги допускат до себе си и до децата.
Timortis, a ‘psychoanalyzator’ is born (again) into an anonymous French village where he is witness to a parade of grotesque daily exhibits.
Each one an exquisite infraction: mutilation of old people, extinguishing of children, crucifixion of animals, incarceration (Angel), blasphemy, the downfall of Icarus, and the jewel in the crown, Glory Hallelujah, who has to do this:[image error]In the name of redemption.
Amen.If anything in this genesis of creation is grotesque, its ultimately US.
HSBC here have done more in recent advertisement to recontextualise the core of modern soundbite than anyone else I can think of:[image error]Vian enrols the same juxtaposition.
Grotesque?
He's writing a novel as one tries on a costume and prances around in it.
(Nudge.) Let's see a novel has, what?
let's name him after a sports car and give him a talent, since good characters are often very talented .
And the characters will have to talk to each other, I guess, and they'll have to care about things, and the images will evoke, naturally, as a kind of side effect, so off to work I go.
Evil born of Shame?
Evil born of Shame born of Need?
Haven't I novel-ed you within an inch of your life?
Alguns vão achar que todas as personagens e situações são surreais, mas se tirarem a venda dos olhos irão reconhecê-los e reconhecer-se...- O meu nome é Jacquemort.
Mas estamos juntos e com a nossa imaginação podemos quebrar todas as grilhetas; criar asas e voar; tornar-nos minúsculos e escapar por qualquer espaço mínimo.- Chamam-me "A Glóira".
Mas acima de tudo sou uma Arranca Corações, quando preencho o meu vazio devorando as mentes dos homens e das mulheres que vivem nas folhas de papel...
People sometimes say they love you, but then you discover that what they really mean is that they want something from you.
Just about every woman I know has met the guy who says he loves her, but actually wants sex.
Coraline has her real mother, who loves her, but is very bad at showing it.
And then she also has her Other Mother, who wants...
well, if you haven't yet seen the movie, I'd better not tell you what she wants, though I'm sure you've already guessed that it isn't what Coraline first believes.
If you have problems with your Other Mother, you might like it.
His interest is not merely professional though: in fact, our man needs to absorb, sponge-like, any sort of emotion and feeling from other people's lives; his existence is that of an existentialist vampire, desperate to fill his emotional void with any sort of second-hand experience.
Since she suffered so much in giving birth to them, children just belong to their mother."Either they like it or not.
The thing is that Vian's children live in a world of their own.
It's like a depraved version of Wonderland, in which time and space become meaningless (the village is nameless and even the French names of the months are a joke: 'Juinet', 'Janvril', 'Avroût'...
Дадена ѝ е привилегията да дава живот, силата да дарява свобода, но и да отнема пòлета на своите създания… Напоследък преоткривам всяка дума от текстовете на Pink Floyd и сега нямаше как да не направя аналогия с „Mother“ от The Wall.„Mother's gonna make all your nightmares come true.Mother's gonna put all her fears into you.Mother's gonna keep you right here under her wing.She wont let you fly, but she might let you sing.“Може в книгата да има и друг „вид“ шамари, но този по отношение на майчинството за мен беше най-силен.
Как Роджър Уотърс и Борис Виан са казали едно и също нещо по различен (силен) начин!Преводът не можеше да не ми направи впечатление – уловени са всички нюанси на налудничавостта.
Although it was possible to tend them there, the majority were left to grow wild in their natural state, like the amizaltzes whose violetindigo foliage is tender greygreen on the underside and patterned with coolly exuberant cartographical white veins more splendid than baroque tendrils; like the wild powaroses, with last year's marienbuds still clinging as umbrella-like skeletons of black straw to the straphanging yellowplush, occasionally bursting into monstrous nodes which thrust out dry tripartite flowers as unappetizing as meringues of blood; like the tufts of lustrous pearlgrey dreamrape; the long clusters of paletipped creamy ginger fenellacas, hanging to the lower branches of the monkeypuzzle trees; the ninastangas with more nests than leaves among their winglike clumps of jewelled astrakhan and tailfeathered collars of fossilised seagulls…"  Or, even more perfectly Joycean:  "Novembruary, the cold, spitgrey, drizzleridden, fogeared month.
Someone else pointed to Vian's jazz background in their review (MJ?
Either way, they've all written excellent reviews), and it makes sense: in the beginning theirs a sense of riffing, improvisation, of spontaneous creative formation out of nothing.
If so Dr. Timortis makes sense as a guide here, equally unfamiliar with this gradually coalescing world of Vian's absurd and grotesque, insightful or unsettling (or even horrifying).
It actually all ends up holding together exceedingly well, bound up in Vian's acrobatic language and his guiding, sublime sense of the menacing absurd.
Boris Vian é um escritor que mostra o pior da humanidade. De maneira sublime provoca asco, nojo, mas também compreensão no leitor. Já tinha adorado a Espuma dos Dias e este livro acompanha-o em qualidade.
This is one of those books that's so sad that it becomes hilarious (or is it hilarious because it conceals a deep sadness?). The little village in Heartsnatcher is full of follies so absurd and exaggerated that they become real. I've known a few mothers like Clementine. Smother a thing with so much love that you suffocate it.
You're foul and filthy!''But it's raining outside,' stated Alfa Romeo, who had just created a smashing dollop of spit.'It's raining outside,' repeated Joel.'Raining,' said Noel, more conciselyIt's true that it was pelting down at that moment.'And who's going to clear up all this mess that you've been making?''You are,' said Alfa Romeo.Clementine went in.
Вие сте малки мърльовци.— Навън вали — забеляза Ситроен, — който беше улучил с една дълга хубава лига.— Навън вали — повтори Жоел.— Вали — каза Ноел по-кратко.Вярно че в този момент той усилено се трудеше.— И кой ще чисти вашите свинщини?— Ти — рече Ситроен.Клемантин влезе.
Да напиша каквото и да е за този роман на Виан, значи да редя клише до клишето.Има книги, които е добре да прочетеш, да мислиш за тях и да мълчиш.Тази е от тях.И толкова.
This shelf casts an arbitrary shadow, yet, though the latest addition seems the least prominent, it is perhaps the most prescient: the recent weather is certainly redolent of “Julember.” Or some such.Now, about the book:  I enjoyed the read while it was happening, but in the end, it felt overlong by half.
Manic, if not a bit ham-handed.The final analysis: Perhaps Vian's genius has completely left me in the dust and the ambivalence I feel about this novel is born of my own philistinian density.
Gdje se Vian od mene krio?Za Borisa Viana sam čula nedavno, zahvaljujući čitalačkom klubu čiji sam član.
Kao i sve bitne knjige mog života, došla je iznenada i oduvala mi tlo pod nogama.
Da bi se o Borisu Vianu pisalo, Boris Vian se mora čitati.
Tanka je granica između genijalnosti njegovog pisanja i samog života.
Prekratkog života.
Čitajući Vadisrce osjećala sam se kao u lavirintu, na momente sam željela pobjeći ali jednostavno nisam imala snage da izađem.
Znam da je ovo početak, i da neću stati dok ne pročitam, poslušam i pogledam sve što je genijalni Boris Vian ostavio iza sebe.
"Heartsnatcher" was Boris Vian's last novel and it has a sadness attached to it. Here Vian goes after the "family unit" with great hysterical results. And again it's his genius to match the moods into a crazy narrative. Vian is like a great bartender, who knows how to mix if not the perfect drink, then at the very least a cocktail that you will never forget.
Další z prapodivných snových světů Borise Viana, svět kde roste pahloží a kvete blejno, kde vzduchem poletují zpěvánkové a malé děti (na které doma čeká velmi a velmi starostlivá maminka).Tenhle poetický sen se ale rychle změní na tíživou noční můru, scény s ukřižováním koně, dědčím jarmarkem nebo kácením stromů na zahradě nejsou vůbec pro slabé povahy. A ani s tou maminkou to není až tak idylické jak by se mohlo zdát...
As personagens são fascinantemente surpreendentes … Jacquemort, psiquiatra que se muda para uma aldeia fictícia podendo no entanto ser situada, pensamos, algures perto de uma das orlas marítimas francesas, onde pretende fazer uma psicanálise integral; o casal Angel e Clémentine, a quem Jacquemort assistirá ao parto dos seus trigémeos; Culblanc a ama amante, o padre da aldeia e o sacristão que esconjuram as suas respetivas crenças numa luta de boxe, Glóiria, o tripulante de uma embarcação que tem como função destruir as vergonhas da população, em troca de um pagamento em ouro, um carpinteiro que se desfaz do corpo inane do seu aprendiz no rio, um ferrador que crucifica um cavalo por não ter cumprido com as suas funções de garanhão, animais que falam, que sentem que sofrem.
Виан е сред много малкото писатели (и първият такъв от дълго време насам), чиято библиография искам да прочета, да събера и да ѝ отделя специално място в библиотеката си. И не ми се пише за него. Чете ми се!
Очень жаль, что чаще всего, человек который считает , что он во всем прав, ущемляя права других ,совершенно не понимает, что он как раз является тем- кто нуждается в помощи .That's how I see Freud reading this book and with horror stating the behavior of Clementine from a tough, indifferent, flavored with aversion to his own children to the insane, with hyper-care and paranoia, makes the diagnosis-hysteria (the tale of the uterus).
oh, I do not advise reading the book, especially contraindicated to pregnant or people too sensitive , I will not say that, I am too sensitive person, but sometimes some events were horrified, disgusting .I did not want to know what would happen next ...
Дадена й е привилегията да дарява живот, силата да предоставя свобода, но и да отнема пòлета на своите създания… Напоследък преоткривам всяка дума от текстовете на Pink Floyd и сега нямаше как да не направя аналогия с „Mother“ от The Wall.„Mother's gonna make all your nightmares come true.Mother's gonna put all her fears into you.Mother's gonna keep you right here under her wing.She wont let you fly, but she might let you sing.“Може в книгата да има и друг „вид“ шамари, но този по отношение на майчинството за мен беше най-силен.
Мисля за всичко, което може да им се случи.
Обичам ги, защото мисля за най-лошото, което може да им се случи.
This book is horrible!
Between the horse crucifixion, nailing horseshoes to small children, selling old people to the market, exploiting kids to do horrible jobs until their death, everything is full of a terrible sadness.
The over-protective mother that ends up by locking her children in cages, after cutting them all degrees of freedom.
The book can be read in so many ways that an analysis after a first read is just meant to be futile and irrelevant.
"wow, this book just left me filled with such a terrible sadness!"
Lisbon Book-Fair 2018.
'O Arranca-Corações' é uma obra negra, verdadeiramente crítica e intensa se a soubermos olhar desta perspectiva subjectiva e interior, mais do que atendendo à sua forma e lendo as suas palavras à superfície. É preciso entrar no universo absurdo de Boris Vian e encontrar, nesta aldeia onde tudo é caótico, um sentido para esta busca pelo amor que nunca se concretiza senão afastando-o ainda mais das suas vidas. Um livro sobre a fragilidade humana, perturbante e sempre actual, que ainda que possa não nos dizer muito acaba por permanecer, pelo menos em parte, na nossa memória literária.http://leiturasmarginais.blogspot.pt/...
This is the madcap story of Clementine, the very overprotective mother of Joel, Noel and Alfa Romeo, three boys whose simultaneous birth cause her such anguishing pain that their father is exiled.
The story is both hilarious and horrifying, and is told from the point of view of Timortis, a psychoanalyst who just happens to be passing Clementine’s home on the day of the boys’ birth and jumps in to deliver them.
God is a birthday present.
God is something extra.
If you like a surreal story told in a unique style, I recommend it.
bizarre.I think it's better not to try and explain this novel at all...all I'll say is that it seems to be dealing with the concept of guilt, but mostly what one will remember is the Old Folks' Fair (auction of old people for buyers' personal abuse), Glory Hallelujah who takes upon himself all of the shame of the villagers in exchange for gold that he is not permitted to spend, blue slugs that make you fly, and psychoanalysis equalling doggy-style sex.very funny.
Even Vian's life is funny...I laughed reading the "About the Author" in the back of the book..let me share:"In 1959, Vian was involved in a project to adapt the novel [I Spit on Your Graves] into a movie, until a series of artistic differences led to his removal from the project.
