https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/370899.The_Dark_Design
And still the Weaver plies his loom, whose warp and woof is wretched ManWeaving th' unpattern'd dark design, so dark we doubt it owns a plan.--Richard Francis Burton 'The Kasîdah of Hâjî Abdû El-Yezdî'Revisit 2015 via audio file 18:03:27Description: Years have passed on Riverworld. Entire nations have risen, and savage wars have been fought--all since the dead of Earth found themselves resurrected in their magnificent new homeworld. Yet the truth about the Ethicals, the powerful engineers of th
And still the Weaver plies his loom, whose warp and woof is wretched ManWeaving th' unpattern'd dark design, so dark we doubt it owns a plan.--Richard Francis Burton 'The Kasîdah of Hâjî Abdû El-Yezdî'Revisit 2015 via audio file 18:03:27Description: Years have passed on Riverworld.
Yet the truth about the Ethicals, the powerful engineers of this mysterious "afterlife," remains unknown.
at any cost.Intrepid explorer Sir Richard Francis Burton leads the most remarkable voyage of discovery he has ever undertaken.
For death on Riverworld has become chillingly final .
. .We open with Burton in front of The Twelve, the Ethicals, whom I prefer to call F-icals.
(To the tune of Monty Python's "I like traffic lights". See for example this YouTube version)I like RiverworldI like RiverworldI like RiverworldThat you can bet your shirt onHe likes RiverworldHe likes RiverworldHe likes RiverworldAlthough he's Richard Burton(with somewhat less enthusiasm)I like RiverworldI like RiverworldI like RiverworldBut life can hand you lemonsHe likes RiverworldHe likes RiverworldHe likes RiverworldAlthough he's Samuel Clemens(very slowly, as we start on the third volume)I like RiverworldI like RiverworldI like RiverworldI like RiverworldI like Riverworld(in tones of sudden, abject despair) ... oh God...
Not because it was bad...on the contrary it was fun.The story follows different point of view characters reincarnated or possibly resurrected or even reconstructed from human history as they journey along a great river trying to find out why humanity has been reincarnated (or resurrected etc) on this strange planet that seems to consist of one very long and winding river valley (or a very narrow sea).These characters include people like King John of England, Mark Twain, and Richard Burton (not the actor the other one who translated the Arabian Nights and The Perfumed Garden) as well as various invented people.The basic problem with this book was that I have never felt the compulsion to read any more in the series.
A genius could have used this world to compare and contrast ideas and language across all human culture and history.
Farmer is not a genius, and spends most of his time typing up wikipedia entries for his favorite historical figures.
Each book in this series seems to have been given a social justice topic to discuss.
Once again, Farmer basically re-presents existing (superficial) arguments instead of delving deeply into the topic.
His Feminist Dirigible pilot Jill Gulbirra comes across as a cardboard comic version of Germaine Greer, and she's the most fleshed out of all the characters.It's not a bad book - but there is a heck of a lot of filler here.
She evolves throughout the book, and I frankly found her a breath of fresh air in a series where the only female characters with speaking roles are the sexual partners of the actual, male protagonists (none of the Twelve we've encountered thus far are women, you'll note).
That being said, this book is exactly like all the others thus far, in that it is huge sections of enormously boring, dry narration and over-exposition juxtaposed with chapters where Burton gets into exciting scraps, which are always glossed over in favor of more exposition.
I suppose I won't know if that is true or not until the end of book four.This book was fairly good, and it kept me reading, although it took me almost a month to get through, mostly because the long scholarship sections tended to bore me and make me leave it aside for a few days.
The action scenes were fairly good, on the other hand.Other than scholarship, one issue this book has is that certain secrets have been revealed here, I think, a little too early.
in a way, this book merely gets us from part two to what is supposed to be the final part...
If Farmer paced his ideational exploration better, the second book could have been thicker, and this book may have been more interesting.
The characters are interesting, but there is too much show boating of certain ideologies that Farmer obviously feels worth exploring.
In a way, there isn't much given here except as a hodgepodge of competing interests that fall short of wrapping the book together as a coherent whole.
The series is still interesting, but this book could have used more attention as to its coherency.
The first three Riverworld books are To Your Scattered Bodies Go, The Fabulous Riverboat and, this, The Dark Design, followed by a fourth, The Magic Labyrinth. I read all four, one right after another, carried on by being very much impressed by the premise of the first: the revivification of everyone along the banks of a single river. The device allowed Farmer to juxtapose the most various persons, many of them important personages. By this volume, however, my interest was beginning to flag.
The two prior books were about somebody building a river boat, another person building a riverboat and then having it stolen and rebuilding the riverboat. This book is about somebody building a zeppelin, then somebody building a riverboat, then two more zeppelin building sections. Honestly, how many times can you tell the same exact story? Massively disappointing in light of the promising world and prospects developed in the first two books. I think this one put me off Philip Jose Farmer for good, I'm sad to say.
The world-building Farmer has done in Riverworld is fantastic, but in each book he just leaves more and more loose ends. From the forward for  The Magic Labyrinth , I gather that they will all be wrapped up in that book, so I'm not too worried about it, but it does seem unfortunate to have the story split out over 4 books like this.To me, this book feels like it's the weakest of the series so far. The first book explored the real star, the Riverworld itself, and all the various cultures that wer
The second book took a new look at the world by putting the element of unevenly distributed metal into play, allowing people holding a specific territory to re-create a rudimentary technological society (which makes death look a lot worse, since it takes you far away from that specific place).Book 3 seems more about gathering people together and starting to make some progress on the quest that's been going on in the background, but with a bunch of weird changes coming into play all of a sudden.(view spoiler)[The biggest change is that death appears to be permanent now, which I would think would completely change the dynamics of the Riverworld, but it seems like it's barely remarked upon or believed.Additionally, the concept that everyone alive after 1983 is an agent of the Ethicals seems very interesting, but it seems poorly retrofit into the rest of the book.
I value wonder and creativity above all else in my readings, and you, Farmer, delivered in To Your Scattered Bodies Go. I should have suspected something then; after all it was only the first few chapters of the first book that had me hooked.
And so, The Dark Design, like The Fabulous River Boat before it, is more of the meandering personal adventures of harrowing escapes and discoveries.
We do start getting a little more interaction between characters and Farmer does dispense a smattering of new information on the Big Mystery.
My favorite part of this book, and of the series, are the deeply flawed characters.
I appreciate the author's efforts to try something different but in these cases, I felt it interrupted the flow of the story.Character development was also a bit wonky in no small part because Farmer keeps introducing new people.
Part of this may be necessary but it detracts from the development of more established characters.
Moreover, it slows the plot down as Farmer establishes these new personalities.
Perhaps it was Farmer's intention but keeping track of who is who becomes more challenging as the book (and the series) develops.Naturally, this book is not all bad.
Although this essential quest and the puzzle at the heart of the series still interests, this sprawling, messy novel often tested my patience.
Burton and his crew make an appearance at the beginning, but then disappear from the novel altogether.
There are numerous unnecessary digressions, including several dull chapters of backstory on Farmer's alterego, the science-fiction writer Peter Jairus Frigate (check out the initials), who is actually a relatively minor character.When Farmer is developing the quest for the truth and the rivalries between characters, the book is fun.
After 900 pages of Riverworld I'm calling it quits.The initial wonder of the setting became claustrophobic and monotonous.The author seemed to lack focus as the series went on, one moment preaching about sexism or racism, the next telling yet another tale of somebody trying to get upriver.The mystery of the creators and purpose of the world is revealed too slowly to keep me reading.It was fun while it lasted, I loved the first book, Its a pity the whole saga couldn't have been compressed a tad.
Better than book 2 but some parts were boring. Too many people were introduces again. it got too complicated. I wasn't happy with the Frigate character for instance.
Posted at my blog, The Next Fifty, at:http://wanda-thenextfifty.blogspot.ca...
That’s why the last book gets only 1 star, it’s a poor conclusion to a series that started out so strong.Nearly all the characters with dialog are genuine historical figures.
His character is the backbone of the five-book series, making most of the important discoveries, outwitting or fighting the antagonists etc., which is fitting.But then we also get Mark Twain/Sam Clemens… Clemens is perhaps the second most important protagonist, and one of the book series’ greatest weaknesses.
Over four or five books, Farmer tells a story which really could have been streamlined into one decently long novel, but he fills it with lengthy descriptions of natural and physical science, historical background, and psychological exploration, which I found myself increasingly skimming over—they just didn't add anything to the stories, or the characters for that matter.
And even this swampy storytelling might have been redeemed if the characters were people I could feel like caring about—but his descriptions just make me dislike them more and more.To be fair, part of my growing displeasure with this series is simply his low and degraded view of human beings, which I have mentioned before—I mean I can be a bit of a misanthrope (haha—haha!
According to the foreword, this is the first half of what was supposed to be volume three of the Riverworld saga, but it was so long the publisher suggested it be published in two volumes.
As it stands, the book is too long, too repetitive, and has too much waffle.
Also, I've heard the story of previous attempts to find the Ethicals' polar tower: please just assume that we have read the earlier volumes and get on with it.I'm looking forward to the final volumes because I'm invested in the story now, but if the next volume is much like the last, I might be indulging in some light skimming of certain passages.
I read the Riverworld books in sequence and To Your Scattered Bodies Go was a fantastic, fascinating romp as only Farmer could write them.
However, about half way through The Dark Design (book 3 in the series) I began to wonder what was going on, if Farmer was still in control of the story or was just letting it happen, curious himself to see where and how it played out.
I'm sure these are enjoyable to most and definitely to Farmer fans.
Lots of stuff was happening and I was no longer sure where all the action was leading (or if Farmer himself even knew).

This was number 3 in the series so far and I am going to head right into number 4. I has kept my attention and I can't wait to find out what happens next! It is an older book and the somethings seem dated but if you keep this in mind it is a very enjoyable reading experience. Historical figures in fictional adventures seems to work although the chosen figures are kinda odd. I don't know much history but I don't feel when reading this that I have to. I am becoming a real fan of Philip Jose Farmer!
Third reading. The Riverworld series is one of Farmer’s best. The premise is Fantastic, and his ability to bring people, good and bad, alive is wonderful. This was a series that I hoped would end up with at least nine books. The ability for the author to explain worlds that you can envision clearly is just as good as is character building. Philip Jose Farmer is in my top ten list of Science Fiction authors. He is missed.
This book seems the one where Farmer began to run out of steam. After two books of different narrators and narratives, he has begun to retrace steps, return to previously explored characters, and re-explore plot points. The writing is still of extremely good quality, but he's stopped innovating and so I'm less of a fan of this than the first two.
Frankly a bit odd and difficult to follow until the ending sort of organises things to something approximating a conclusion. Confusing and full of digressions that don't really add much. A disappointing third part to a series that promised a lot.
La trama diventa sempre più ingarbuglata e meno interessante!Continuo solo per sapere chi sono i creatori del Mondo fiume!
B. The third in the series.
The blatant sexism almost ruined the story. It's an interesting concept but damn it shouldn't have taken this long.
Too discursive, but some excellent action scenes throughout.
Revolutionary!
