https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/439226.What_Mad_Universe
Fredric Brown was a true ubermensch of the Golden Age of Science Fiction, and his short stories are still among the best ever written in the genre. I mean that. Best...Ever...Written. What Mad Universe is one of only a handful of SF novels that he wrote, a tear-inducing shame given how bursting with amazing it is. What's so unique about this tale is that it's both classic pulp SF in its own right, while at the same time acting as an examination/critique of pulp SF stereotypes.Double your pleasu
Fredric Brown was a true ubermensch of the Golden Age of Science Fiction, and his short stories are still among the best ever written in the genre.
PLOT SUMMARY:The main character, Keith Winton, is an editor for a publishing company that puts out various adventure and science fiction magazines.
For Keith, the adventure has just begun as he's blown into a parallel universe straight out of the pulp SF magazines he edits.
This is pulp SF at its most FUN and for fans of the genre I can't recommend it enough.
That said, I think the story is engaging enough to appeal to just about any science fiction fan.
:) Even now, it feels fairly unique and very interesting, a solid riff off of the golden age SF and a nearly seamless conjunction with alternate reality with all kinds of BEMs.
(Bug Eyed Monsters).SF in our universe, and Fact in the other.
Full of low-types, shady individuals, telepathic entities, spaceships, and an infinity of universes.I keep thinking that I should have read this EARLY EARLY in my first forays into SF.
This one is pretty damn fantastic and I think it holds up very well even now.
There really isn't that many Golden Age SF I can truly say that about.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Vintage Wave-function Collapse: "What Mad Universe" by Fredric BrownAnd then you say "putting ideas under the noses of the people who most hate them.
So, in that context, time travel must mean more than that standing still movement - it must mean traveling faster than that to the future, or at any speed at all to the past, which does not happen at all in natural life time.
As Einstein put it: "People like us, who believe in physics, know that the distinction between past, present, and future is only a stubbornly persistent illusion".
It has a light, humorous tone throughout, though this isn't like a Douglas Adams novel, but more like early PKD, only slightly more ridiculous and free-wheeling.The basic gist is that there's a man, Keith, living in the very near future (at the time), who works as an editor for various sf and weird magazines that were so prevalent back in the day.
On the same day that a rocket is going to land on the moon for the first time -- which is supposed to create a huge explosion of light so everyone can see it from the Earth -- Keith is suddenly transported from his boss's estate (where he was visiting) to....well, the same place, only everything's different.
Curiously, While Keith and the rest of the population dresses conservatively and in keeping with the standards of Old Earth, Betty is a 'space girl' and is wearing a more revealing costume: Resolutely he looked at her costume instead of the parts of her that weren't covered by it.
Keith might be reconciled with his transplanted destiny, but alas, his Betty is engaged to the hero of this New World - Doppelle who looks like Errol flynn, leads Earth Space Defense against the Alpha Centauri monsters and is also the brainiest scientist on the planet.
Real Rating: 4.75* of fiveThese old Golden Agers are novellas! Just realized it. Need to cogitate.
A fun, unintentionally campy tale about a man trapped in an alternate universe. I love that Brown's vision of the future had Earthlings casually traveling to other planets, yet they still had to line up to use a phone booth. I definitely want to read more of this guy's stuff!
The solidity of his prose style is remarkable: he was just a very good writer, able to express sometimes quite complex ideas very clearly indeed.This novel was published in 1949 and it's a mark of how sophisticated the SF field was becoming in the hands of such writers as Brown (and Sprague de Camp and a few others) that they were able to twist their imaginations around to deal with the SF field itself.
In its own way, this novel is a good example of critical fiction: a pre-postmodern work that affectionately lampoons the trops of props of pulp SF.
Brown’s What Mad Universe harkens back to the classic 50s sci-fi films, which oftentimes pitted humans against creatures and beings from the vast beyond, and Brown’s book seems to be as much of homage as well as a satire of this genre, with prototypes of the genre running rampant throughout the plot.
Keith will try to stay alive long enough to find his way back to the world he knew….This book is fun, imaginative, humorous and quite creative and clever.
Over all, What Mad Universe very fun book and I’m looking to reading more from Frederick Brown.
A charming golden-age sci-fi tale that isn't afraid to poke fun at its own genre (why, of course space girls are scantily clad. Why wouldn't they be?). Perhaps funniest of all, though (maybe unintentionally) is the fact that the main character is whisked away to a parallel universe where everyone wants to kill him and his main concern is that his parallel universe girlfriend is engaged to someone else.
¿Dónde ha estado Fredric Brown todos estos años que hasta ahora no lo he encontrado?
Existe un universo en el que lo hago.
En el que conduzco mientras leo este libro.
Y existe un universo en el que no tengo ni idea de quién es Fredric Brown.
Y otro en el que ni siquiera existen los libros.
Te los crees.
A estas alturas, me creo todo lo que este señor me diga.
Es más, quiero creer todo lo que me diga.Porque quiero creer que existe un Keith Winton en el universo.
An interesting subtlety which I didn't glom onto the first time I read this: it's not actually what's in the scifi geek's brain, but what the editor guy imagines would be in there. lol The whole thing with the blackouts was very well thought out and extrapolated.
Amusant mélange d'humour et de science-fiction comme seul Brown savait le faire.
Really enjoyable to find some real science fiction in the old style. I enjoyed it very much, and would recommend it to anyone looking for a good, quick read. Not so easy to find anymore, but worth it.
Unfortunately the rocket malfunctions, falls back to Earth, kills eleven people and Keith Winton who is at ground zero is sent to an alternate reality.
A universe that has duplicates of many people, right down to the letters to the editor being exactly the same.
When he tries to give the guy another coin the guy calls him an Arcturian spy and shoots at him.
With luck Keith makes it back to New York and after a harrowing night where he barely escaped with his life he starts reading about the history of this universe.
It was first published as a book in 1949.
It is the first time I had seen the acronym BEM (big-eyed monster) and did not learn what it meant until after I finished the book.
Well, due to a mechanical problem, the rocket never makes it to the moon but instead lands on his publisher's estate and explodes, killing everyone but Keith and destroying all the buildings on the estate.
Keith bumbles along, almost getting himself killed or arrested a few times, as he tires to figure out what's going on.This is quite a fun read, especially if you appreciate the spoof!
So far, I've read 3 crime fiction novels of his: Night of the Jabberwock ( https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
"The cover, by Bergey, gives us a fantastic strawberry blonde wearing the regulation crotch-tight shorts and metal brassierre who, in the course of fleeing from a bug-eyed monster with very grabby, grabby hands, is at this point poised between Saturn and Earth's moon and is about to make her last leap for safety out of the picture and into the reader's lap." "the leaping girl in shorts also comes from the novel, although there she appears as a parody of such covers; but the bluish, sex-mad entity with the protruding hands, teeth, and eyes comes from nowhere but the cover artist's own warehouse." That's what Tenn thinks.
i have not read pulp sf in its first time so the parody is of a type of lit i know only through critical work.
this is ranked as best, incorporating the fans, the writers, the editors, the magazines, in a fantasy about itself.
as for work of the sort it is a work about, i prefer the more serious sf work of 'galaxies' by malzburg, but this is fun, repeat: fun.
it is written for fans of pulp who have read enough to recognize itself.
i have read he influenced philip k dick, this is not dick at his best, but better than dick at his worst.
I just finished re-reading "What Mad Universe" and I'm surprised at how much less I enjoyed it than I did the first time I read it in the 1970's.
This only reinforces my impression that Brown was much, much better at shorter lengths when it came to SF, although paradoxically, his crime/mystery novels were very well written and enjoyable.
It appears that this novel is intended to be a mildly humorous poke at pulp SF conventions and SF fandom.
Brown touches lightly on many SF plot devices such as alternate universes that look surprising like the Many Worlds Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics that is popular today.
Alcuni elementi della storia (in particolare la 'Totalnebbia' e un universo parallelo in cui il Colosseo si trova a Londra e l'Inghilterra è retta da un regime autoritario guidato da Margaret Thatcher) sono stati ripresi in un episodio del fumetto horror Dylan Dog.La trama è la classica storia dell'iconografie della fantascienza dell’Età dell’Oro: ragazze in avveniristici bikini, mostri viola, viaggi interplanetari, universi paralleli, robot con poteri telepatici e chi ne ha più ne metta: Keith Winton, il responsabile di una rivista di fantascienza, viene improvvisamente investito da una fortissima scarica elettrica, provocata da un razzo sperimentale che sarebbe dovuto cadere sulla Luna.
Keith awakens in this new reality wondering where his boss's estate went, where the chair he had been sitting disappeared to, not only that but there was a large maple tree whose shade he had been enjoying.
When the druggist picks up the quarter and exclaims how great the condition is and wants to buy it from him, Keith begins to think everyone is crazy.
Keith asked him if the rocket that he had been sitting out to watch land on the moon and send back a large flash of light, was supposed to land tonight.
Brown combina a la perfección el humor, lo absurdo, con una base teórica científica, todo cuadra y aunque suene raro es coherente.
Me encanta.Fredric Brown fue un autor pulp y, de hecho, esta novela lo protagoniza el editor de una revista pulp, Amazing Stories.
Este autor es uno de tantos perfectos ejemplos que demuestran que el pulp no es algo minoritario, es todo lo contrario, es literatura para todo el mundo, literatura popular.
También sirve para demostrar que el pulp tiene fundamento, no tiene por qué ser acción gratuita; Brown lo demuestra igual que lo hizo Bradbury, Asimov o Wells si hablamos de ciencia ficción.
-La sátira puede esconderse en cualquier rincón del humor -. Género. Ciencia-Ficción.Lo que nos cuenta. Un accidente durante la prueba de un cohete experimental transporta a nuestro protagonista, editor de ciencia-ficción, hacia una realidad paralela que presenta desarrollos técnicos mucho más avanzados (otros no tanto) y en la que estamos bajo la amenaza de los arturianos, alienígenas con malas intenciones.¿Quiere saber más del libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
An SF classic, somewhat dated, but still pleasurable. What if you were suddenly transported into a parallel world, where someone else were you, and you were in danger because of an intergalactic war? Not PKD, but what is? This still is a fun read.
Un impulso eléctrico de grandes dimensiones traslada a nuestro protagonista a un mundo paralelo, en el cual tendrá que enfrentarse a diversas situaciones. Excelente libro de aventuras con situaciones un tanto previsibles pero con ese toque pulp que lo hace tremendamente adictivo.
Un universo parallelo strambo e divertente. L'ironia un po' cinica di Fredric Brown qui è al suo meglio.
Tout le monde essaye de l'attraper à partir de ce moment, même l'extra-terrestre.Il prend la fuite, et ce sera la fuite jusqu'à la fin du livre, et en même temps il apprend des choses et commence à comprendre ce qui lui est arrivé.A cause du grand choc de l'explosion (provoqué par la fusée, dont le décollage à été raté), un univers parallèle a pris la place du monde dans lequel Keith vivait.Les billets qu'il avait sortis de sa poche sont désormais interdits!
It's the best novel-length work by a sci-fi author who is better known for his short stories… perhaps that should have told me something.I suppose the problem is that I can't get enthusiastic about pulp-era science fiction.
It's written from the point of view of a sci-fi editor, with winking, insider's caricatures of publishers, annoying fans, and writers.I was also interested in this book's take on the parallel universe concept.
But with an infinite number of parallel universes, of course, none are impossible, and it turns out that there is a good (or at least plot-related) reason that this particular one is involved.These interesting features notwithstanding, I can't claim to have actually enjoyed the book.
Got these books in the glory days when F&SF books sold by mail order, with a 25% discount if 100 USD value was ordered. And these were the days when an Australian dollar was valued at $1.25 US (the correct value of course!).Worth it for the sewing machine based space drive!
Pour redonner un peu le contexte de l'écriture, L'univers en folie date de 1949, en pleine Guerre Froide, le lancement (réussi) d'une fusée pour la Lune n'a eu lieu que vingt ans plus tard...Donc, déjà, au niveau de la science-fiction Fredric Brown a eu un coup de génie.
Keith Winton, son personnage principal, se retrouve dans un univers qui ressemble au sien (au nôtre aussi) à quelques détails près : la maison de campagne de son éditeur a disparu, des monstres pourpres se baladent en ville comme la chose la plus naturelle du monde, une épaisse brume couvre New-York la nuit tombée...
