https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6554891-the-museum-of-eterna-s-novel
In fact, the culmination of the actual plot (playing loosely with that term in order to rope the actions of the characters over the course of the novel into a literary term for the sake of easily handling and examining them) is discussed in the prologues and the author even mocks a reader who would desire any sort of completion or cohesive plot.’The reader who won’t read my novel if he can’t know all of it first is my kind of reader, he’s an artist, because he who reads only seeking the final resolution is seeking what art should not provide, his interest is in the merely vital, not in a state of consciousness: the only artistic reader is the one who does not seek resolution.’For Macedonio, the true purpose behind any work of art is the creation of it, the mechanics that build and function within it.
The prologues pave the way for the novel: told as if an allegory, or with the feel of an allegory—characters with names such as Maybegenius, Sweetheart, the Lover, the Reader, along with more concrete names like the President and Eterna share time at an estancia (country estate) called La Novella.
I can’t recommend it to many—a few of you [there are a few of you I’d like to compel to read this, but I’d rather continue to get along with you].
Special thanks to David for enabling this read; sending the Judge your way.
Or the world was created old.”Macedonio Fernández deals in paradoxes so I at once fell for his book…Writing sixty prefaces, prologues, preambles and prolegomena to his novel Macedonio Fernández literally turned the stream of consciousness into the “total commotion of consciousness”, both author’s and reader’s.What actually is the nature of novel and what is the nature of literary characters?
I liked some of the prologues, and bits and pieces of the novel, but as a whole the book didn't work for me.
For the sake of gathering up votes it would be more strategic to hate the book and hurl anger because how dare a writer create something that a) I don't enjoy and b) that doesn't succeed.
Maybe re-reading the book and taking lots of notes would help me figure out exactly what I'm thinking the novel is pointing to in failure.
David, because I need to know exactly what I should think of the book.

Here the President is a novelist, imagining a world in which characters can be moved around in such a way that they suffer and die alone, offstage, as far away in their own worlds as possible.
The Museum of Eterna’s Novel (The First Good Novel) is, in the end, not a piece of experimental fiction as much as a concerted dream of a life without pain: Fernández was neurasthenic and exquisitely afraid of suffering, and he slowly dreamed his this book as an Eden, a museum, and in a perverse and impossible way, also a novel.
As a reader I should not be deceived by "imitations of reality" (or should it be "limitations"?) in which The Museum of Eternas Novel falls ill or (un-) realistic, neither should I question the inconsistencies, nor submit anything that corresponds with those what is supposed to be "familiar". I shall not fall into the illusion that there is a logical intrinsication into a literary text which explains clear imbalances into which the characters and also the author are falling, even there is a deep
I shall not fall into the illusion that there is a logical intrinsication into a literary text which explains clear imbalances into which the characters and also the author are falling, even there is a deep awareness of (non-) existence on a metaphysical level.The First Good Novel (or The Last Bad Novel) has 57 prologues (or 60, depending on whether one counts the post-prologues, the blank pages dedicated for the readers indecision as well) and open/ends - while the novel postpones itself - pointing to a kind of "interactive reader" who is "coming out of the novel".
Here are some of the titles: Salutation; A home for non-existence; Introducing Eterna; Perspective; To the critics; For those not expert in metaphysics; Prologue of indecision; This novel began by losing Nicolasa, its “cook character,” who resigned for the noblest of reasons.In these prologues, Fernández is keen on exploring what his novel is or could be, in the most avant-guard sense of “being”:For all this I believe, as Author, to have credited myself with the following novelistic specialities: The Novel That BeginsThe Frustrated Novel (a manufacturing defect)The Novel That Went Out In The Street, with all its characters, to write itself.The Prologue-Novel, whose story plays out, concealed from the reader in prologues.
All the characters are under obligation to dream of being, which is their proper way of being, inaccessible to living people, and the only genuine stuff of Art.I like Macedonio Fernandez for sentences like this.
I could accept this book as anything it wanted to call itself, if only it would jettison those last vestiges of the old novel (which is not his forte) completely.Reader, I need you to breathe on this breathless page.
Lean in more; all existence is so sad.Sorry, Macedonio, I’m out of breath.
But I’ve got enough virtual novels of my own to worry about without having to breathe life into yours.
The Museum of Eterna’s Novel creates a desire to know the answer, a lot like life, but doesn’t bother to spoon-feed us with those luscious predigested baby bananas we so desperately desire.
A Warning to prospective Readers of Eterna: Once the line is crossed, there’s no going back; there’s no escape; kinda like a blackhole, but then again, there being no such thing as time, well truly the Reader must have always been in La Novela without knowing it and every book the world has ever known must be no more or less than a book review of The Museum of Eterna’s Novel.
I am not sure if I got the first one, I didn't get the second one.
I finished the last sentence of this book as the subway doors were opening to take me home, this seems mildly important.
I am reasonably sure that whoever found this manuscript forgot to include the actual novel.
I think this is a book like bolano that I will look back on and remember liking, but that reading it did not seem quite as good an experience.
Avviso però che coloro che si ritirano perché hanno finito di leggere il mio titolo, che a quest'ultimo segue il mio libro che non appartiene al genere dei fac-simili in legno con i quali si simulano biblioteche ricolme. Così, se il lettore non continuerà a leggere, non sarò colpevole di non averlo avvertito. Ormai è tardi per incontrarci qui, l'autore che non scrive e il lettore che non legge: ora io scrivo, decisamente.
“Si una novela como la así sintetizada cree usted que tenga probabilidades de gustarle, léala.
Y permítame que yo ejerza de artista mientras la lee, pues esa novela puede agradarle sin tener nada de artístico y ningún valor para mí.
Pero me será útil para que yo ejerza sobre su espíritu el único operar artístico.
Usted sentirá oscuramente primero y después claramente la emoción artística, lo que yo he querido suscitar.El lector que no lee mi novela si primero no la sabe toda es mi lector, ése es artista, porque el que busca leyendo la solución final, busca lo que el arte no debe dar, tiene un interés de lo vital, no un estado de la conciencia: sólo el que no busca una solución es el lector artista”
Relatively unknown in the USA, he's one of the most underrated writers I've encountered in many years. I find generally that most serious American readers are pretty well up on the names of top European or world writers, but for some reason South and Central America is forgotten. For every Bolano, Marquez and Llosa, there are Macedonio Fernandez's, Severo Sarduy's, Osman Lins's, Fernando del Paso's and Nelida Pinon's. Maybe Clarice Lispector broke through. I'm responding this way because I'm trying to figure out how I'm coming to Fernandez so late, and what took so long to translate this. It's astonishing.

DISCLAIMER: I am the publisher of the book and thus spent approximately two years reading and editing and working on it. So take my review with a grain of salt, or the understanding that I am deeply invested in this text and know it quite well. Also, I would really appreciate it if you would purchase this book, since it would benefit Open Letter directly.
It's so strange that having been so influential for Borges, Macedonio Fernández is one of the most overlooked names in our literature, at least in the popular knowledge the average argentine reader is supposed to have.Being mostly reminiscent of Cortázar's style for me, this book has gone through the same path of what I'm enjoying the most lately.
Writings that defy the reader's conception of fiction, and that do not leave everything told so one can sleep quietly at night, having understood.
I guess it's a product of several readings what gets us to enjoy and try to understand a book more and more each time.
Too much metaphysics, not enough novel!
Macedonio Fernández's The Museum of Eterna's Novel is subtitled "The First Good Novel." Well, perhaps it is the author's first good novel, in which case I will probably not be investigating his bad ones.
They might be good standees for metaphysical notions, but they couldn't hold their own in a real story -- which this novel does not contain.
Apparently, Jorge Luis Borges considers himself to be a plagiarist of Fernandez's ideas.
Fernandez's Museum is just that, one of those quixotic museums which commemorate vague things.
Too bad!
This is the perfect book for the reader who loves abstract art, who trusts that meaning and beauty are in there somewhere if only one sticks with it....this is a novel about a ranch gnamed "the Novel".......this is a novel with 50+ prologues.....not a typo...50+ prologues. Thisis a novel for the reader who revels in metaphysics......the metaphysics of the written word. Did I like it? I don't know. Would I recommend it? I don't know. Was it a memorable intellectual experience? Absolutely!
Padre di tutta la letteratura portena, anarchico e utopico, disegna qui una costellazione di segni metafisici tendente all'infinito, nella quale il lettore, singhiozzante o ininterrotto, viene letto a sua volta mentre ogni finzione nasconde un'altra finzione fino all'ultimo occultamento che è la non vita.
Si ricorda quanto scrisse di lui l'amico e ammiratore J.L. Borges, che ammise di imitarlo fino al plagio:“Scrivere non era un'occupazione degna di Macedonio Fernàndez.
Viveva (più che altra persona a me nota) per pensare”.
Conceptually, this is a sometimes overly meta treatise of time, love, and narrative.
Most of the time.
Clunky, stilted, outdated -- particularly in the actual novel part -- to the point where at times, it was almost unreadable.
It read like a word-for-word dictionary exercize.
So friggin frustrating, because in the reading, you KNOW there's beauty at play ---- it's just getting lost.I will review this again whenever a new translation comes out: I feel completely unqualified to say anything concrete about it as is.
A wonderful sense of humor. A master of the authorial interruption, the infinite regression of prologues, the story of the unstory. Delightful turns of phrase sprinkled with the hint of characters to come, characters that were, characters that aren't. Is this review helpful to you? Probably not. What can I say? I've been unwritten through the reading of this. Meh with whipcream and a cherry on top.
the father of argentine metafiction? in any case, this is a novel about how to write the best novel, though i don't think the advice is that great. the characters are basically all diligently simplistic, the action is nearly all offstage, and literally have the novel is a series of prologues declaring what the novel will and will not be. the novel itself is sort of an afterthought.
what an extraordinary book - a self-decribed open-source novel written nearly a century before the very concept of open-source was developed. consisting mainly of assorted introductions to itself, this book would be post-modern even now. and very funny to boot.
Fascinating meditation on the novel and its limits by Borges's mentor. Review forthcoming...
Este es un libro-teoría, cumple con su promesa de "museo" en cuanto al collage narrativo, sin embargo, algo que yo necesito es el primer nivel de apreciación de lectura, ese nivel puro y libre de intelectualismos.
Macedonio te brinca con la teoría, con arquetipos de personajes en lugar de personajes en sí, en la Eterna vez la claridad de tu meta más clara, de tu amor más grande, de lo imposible de haber coexistido en el mundo con-sin ese amor.
The Museum of Eterna's Novel (The First Good Novel) was commenced in 1925, went through five drafts, and remained in an unedited, unfinalized state at the time of Fernández's death (similar to another great product of Latin American literature, Roberto Bolaño's 2666).
Other prologues, in dense and difficult but ultimately rewarding prose, set up the mystical underpinnings of the main story.The actual novel takes place on an estancia called "La Novela," owned by the President, who has gathered together his closest friends, including Maybegenius, Sweetheart, The Lover, Simple, the Gentleman Who Does Not Exist, and Eterna, who is both the President's love interest and the personification of idealized beauty and eternal love.
This is a work of meta fiction that ranks as one of the most difficult I’ve ever stuck it out reading. It raises interesting ideas about the nature of reading and of existence and makes frustrating faints toward plot and character, none of which get played out in a satisfying way. That being said, I could see myself rereading Eterna for the way it pushes you to understand it - I imagine there would be new insight each time through.
Eh. The prologues were more or less a hoot, but the actual novel is just...nothing. The whole business with implicating author, reader, and characters *ought* to be fascinating, but it's just not. One is reminded of At Swim-Two-Birds, but the comparison is not favorable to Fernández. God love him for trying, but still: eh.
"Tutto è stato scritto, tutto è stato detto, tutto è stato fatto, si sentì dire Dio e non aveva ancora creato il mondo, non c’era ancora nulla. Anche questo me l’hanno già detto, replicò forse dal vecchio, abissale Nulla. E cominciò." (p. 31)"Vivere è creare passato." (p. 306)
