https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/117251.Hamlet
Written for the Celebrity Death Match Review TournamentAct I, Scene IHamlet enters.HAMLET: OK, Where's that ghost everyone told me about?Jane Eyre enters.HAMLET: Wait a minute.
Do you own a manor?HAMLETS: (laughs) No, I own a castle.JANE: Did I ask for Rochester...Who's Rochester?
They kiss and Hamlet goes off to find someone to marry them and to reserve a room on a Baltic Sea Cruise.Enter Claudius.CLAUDIUS: Stop, I cannot allow this.
There's no loser!JANE: I don't know about that, dear Claudius.
Y0u read the play right?CLAUDIUS: Well, duh.JANE: So what happens?CLAUDIUS: Hamlet dies, I die, Everybody dies.JANE: And me?
roll up, roll upCELEBRITY DEATH MATCHJANE EYRE VS HAMLETJANE EYRE (dressed in full armour, with beard, and speaking in a ridiculous gruff voice)Now, Wamlet, hear:'Tis given out that, sleeping in my worchard,A serpent stung me; so the whole wombat of DenmarkIs by a forged process of my deathWankly abused: but know, thou noble youth,The serpent that did sting thy father's lifeNow wears his cwown.[The Governessator is toying with the credulous Prince.]HAMLET O my prophetic soul!
It plays itself out on such a grand scale."The book was ordered from SHAKESPEARE AND COMPANY, Paris and includes an introduction to Shakespeare's life and the Elizabethan theatre, an introduction to Hamlet, an essay by Paul Prescott on performance options on both stage and screen, and a commentary.
Knight's essay in The Wheel of Fire (1930) judged Hamlet a villain.
This is a work that continues to hold a mirror up to human nature in all its complexity, strike emotional chords with readers engaged with the character's angst, and find new relevance with age.
This has always been a favorite of mine.
I understand that people may either love or hate Shakespeare, however I am unable to comprehend the latter.
Shakespeare's characters provide a deep psychology for the audience to grab on to.
Although one may not neccessarily agree with a specific character's motives or ideals, he or she is absolutely able to now argue the character's mind set; you are in their mind and understand how they see the world.
This is a literary vacation in my opinion; to be able to enter into another world and see things through their eyes.
Formerly a member of the Royal Shakespearean Company, actor/director Kenneth Branagh confesses that he has been intrigued and in some ways obsessed by Hamlet from early on in his life, early teens and before.
However, the shifting of passages does not dull the understanding of the play a whit; even though this is made as a companion book to an excellent film, it stands alone quite well as an "everyman's" treatise on how Hamlet the play and Hamlet the man can influence one person's life.
The young Hamlet, who has to grow up when his father is suspiciously killed, and his uncle suddenly marries his mother.
Hamlet is forced to decide whether or not he will honor his father's ghost who tells him that his own brother has killed him to marry his wife--Hamlet's mother.
The story goes on to tell how Hamlet's decision creates the complications and final resolve, but it is amazing how Shakespeare (again) is a master at the psychological reasoning that goes on in one.
Besides the book, which is wonderful, the original especially, the movie with Kenneth Branagh as Hamlet is the best I think.
'Twas okay
This was the first work of Shakespeare's I'd ever read and is still my second favorite (Henry V being the first).
No need to mention all the familiar, insightful quotes from this most famous of plays; it is a brilliant work of art.
It's always hard, being an only child furthermore, to see the attentions of your mother go elsewhere, particularly to a man who is NOT your father...and especially to a man who possibly killed your father to usurp his throne and queen.
Even if you haven't read a single work, you will be familiar with it by the end...and possibly have laughed your ass off in the process.
I still can't decide whether I hated it more or less after watching it all live.
The play was...mediocre.
The acting was fabulous, but the casting made little sense.
Horatio and Hamlet were both played by actors similar in age to Polonius.
I think I was most confused at the end when the soldiers came in to carry Hamlet's body away and they were all dressed in modern military uniforms.
Nothing made sense.
Surprisingly though, it made me appreciate the play in its written form much more.
The plot was good, but plays are meant to be watched, not read.
Hamlet's anger towards his mother and uncle grew after his father came to him in a ghost form and told Hamlet, he was murdered by his new step dad.
Hamlet promises to revenge his death but stalls when he finds out it was Claudius, the new king and his mother's new husband.
Laertes and Claudius create two plans to kill Hamlet.
Plan A is to have then duel and Laertes will have poison on his sword.
Plan B is to have Hamlet drink from a poisoned cup.
Hamlet and Laertes both get stabbed by the sword and get poisoned.
Love Shakespeare.Hamlet is amazing! Sad that all die in the end. Not fair. Because Hamlet deserved to life. Even he wanted to revenge.
Hamlet, the main character has to build up the strength to seek the revenge he is looking for and in the end something happens that takes the reader for ninety degree turn.
Ophelia experiences all of these feeling as well but in my personal opinion she has it harder than Hamlet because of him being pretending to go insane at the same time she was in love with him."Hamlet" takes place in multiple settings but mainly in the castle of Denmark.It was based in the 16th century.
Hamlet is the one who has a quest to seek revenge on another individual.
Hamlet, of course, is always amazing; however, for those who will be viewing the play rather than reading it, Kenneth Branagh's is the one. (The David Tennant film is tepid; the Ethan Hawke one is unbearable.)
Quite simply the greatest play ever written, in my opinion. While Branagh's film adaptation isn't my favorite, it's still very good and I generally love his take on the Bard.
Not as in depth as I had hoped. This film means so much to me and I was hoping this book would deepen my appreciation of it. Sadly, it's pretty superficial.
Hamlet acts much like his late father in that he believes that women have little bearing over their own decisions, due to their submissive nature, and thus should not be punished; however, when they do make decisions, they are generally evil and deceptive. The ghost talks about Gertrude’s incestuous actions as being her own choice. He states that she was seemingly innocent. Despite the established guilt of Gertrude, the ghost refuses for Hamlet to cause her any suffering. The brother, however, w
Hamlet strikes the last blow to Ophelia’s character with the murder of her father.Ophelia is left in a state of confusion and anguish because both figures of power in her life were now dead or the cause of death.
He sends spies after his sons personal life yet turns around and acts like he knows his daughters.2)	When he gives Ophelia advice, the reader is left struggling for themselves to think whether Hamlet actually is in love with her or not.
Shakespeare explores this idea by highlighting performance and role-playing, two more of his abiding interests.
When we lose those power struggles, we have to perform imposed duties, play expected roles, read our scripted lines.
Being a very English king, Henry is not a master of French; and being a soldier, not a lover, he has no clue how to win over Katherine, the Princess of France, in a scene that I’m sure inspired many a modern romcom.
Yet all Henry had to do was use English to persuade, motivate, inspire his men to win all of France for him.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A mesmerizing play from start to finish.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
This version is excellent for exploring the various ways in which Hamlet can be interpreted. Branagh emphasizes the sexuality and gender relations in his version.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
The tragedy of Hamlet or of the human mind? A great play by Shakespeare!
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
