https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22616.The_System_of_Objects
ولی باید بگم واقعا ارزش خوندن چندباره رو داشت.بودریار معتقد است در جامعه ی پسامدرن، اشیا یا ابژه ها ارزش نمادین پیدا میکنند طوری که تکنولوژی های سرگرم کننده در عصر حاضر تجربه هایی را برای افراد فراهم میکنند که به مراتب پرهیجان تر و گیراتر از واقعیت ملال انگیز زندگی روزمره باشد و واقعی تر از واقعی جلوه کنند.
شاید به تعبیر جهان حقیقی در فیلم ماتریکس باید ماشین هایی را که در جهان مجازی و واقعی ادراک می کنیم ، شخصیت هایی همچون مأمور پنداشت که در خدمت دنیای ماتریکس و واقعی بوده و ابزاری برای بردگی انسان در زندان واقعیت به شمار می روند.
برای درک یه قسمت های مجبور میشدم چندبار بخونم متن رو تا متوجه بشممفاهیم خیلی جاها بدون اینکه منظم شده باشن تند و تند گفته شدن و حتی بعضا مطالب تکراری هم دیده میشهکتاب نظام اشیا از جایگاه کالا و شی در جامعه ی مدرن صحبت میکنه.
شی با دلالت ثانویه بر پرستیژ و جایگاه اجتماعی افراد دلالت میکنهبا این همه مسیری که این جامعه مصرفی پیش رو داره از روابط انسانی تهی هست.یه نکته ی جالب قسمت پایانی کتاب این بود که اصل لذت و اصل واقعیت فروید رو توی دنیای کالاها آورده بود.
Baudrillard had a way with observation and a keen ability to take singular examples and make them speak for larger phenomena that were but some signs of his brilliance.
Baudrillard paints quite the vast picture here, basically arriving at the conclusion that all consumption is depraved and all objects are signs.
But, he's smart about how he breaks things down into different orders of consumption, and treats them separately (even if only to make them ultimately arrive at the same point) and the distinctions are worth considering.
در این کتاب به زندگی اشیا پرداخته شده گاهی تحلیل های روانکاوانه گاهی جامعه شناختی و البته بحث های فنی - فصل سوکارکرد ها ربات ها و گجت ها برام جالب بود من این کتاب رو در ادامه و در پیوند چند کتاب دیگری مطالعه کردم که در باره ی تکنولوژی بود:ماهیت تکنولوژی و هنر تکنولوژیکمارکس و تکنولوژی- مارکس و تکنولوژی - قانع بصیریتوی این کتاب در مورد سه نسل سیستم های تکنولوژیک صحبت های جالبی پیدا میشهپرسش از هایدگر، تکنولوژی چیست؟- پرسش از هیدگر تکنولوژی چیست - قانع بصیری

3.2/5.0 Minor Baudrillard. Stick to the simulacra, you dense French bastard.
Written back in ’68, this is some early Jean Baudrillard. The writing is more serious than his later stuff, and the focus—like much of his writing early on—is on consumer culture.
One of Baudrillard's best. The System of Objects gives reason and perspective to the way Modernity abstracts objects into signifiers of an absent reality and to the drama of alienation in the spectacle.
Claro que algunas de las cuestiones que aparecen en este libro son susceptibles de discutirse, pero creo que es un punto de vista clásico y de referencia necesaria para cualquiera que quiera empezar el abordaje de la sociedad de consumo y la relación entre objetos y sujetos (de mercado) en la actualidad.
En el ejemplar que tengo de la decimoséptima edición (o mejor sería decir reeimpresión), los márgenes no son del todo claros (quizá por el refilado final) y las páginas 106-110 están desacomodadas.
Por lo menos no se comen páginas, pero si es incómodo de leer.
A promising beginning, The System of Objects is a reasonably dry read which delves into exactly what purpose 'objects' themselves serve and represent within our lives, and how this has changed over the course of centuries.Early on, this is explained to us in a very digestible manner - interior design.
As the book progresses, the theme changes from the study of objects in themselves to exactly what they represent within societies, and how society handles them.
He's a fine writer, and an important one. But I'll say what I'm not supposed to say on an app for bookworms: just watch 2 or 3 Things I Know About Her instead.Trying to build a phenomenology of the inanimate world creates crossed-eyes.
If one does some work updating them, the sections on gadgets, robots, and advertising remain quite fresh.It's been said that Symbolic Exchange and Death was his last "real" book before he veered off into nonsense and jokes.
That makes The System of Objects one of his real books, then.
But for this very reason, and because of how tightly the two ways of thinking are smushed together, I can't help but feel that The System of Objects has to be one of Baudillard's most sarcastic books.
In the section "Advertising" he's literally doing armchair philosophy and the philosophy of armchairs.
Не знаю, важко щось сказати, бо на щастя чи на жаль, я не належу і не стикалася особливо з такою повномірною системою споживання, як описана автором, і якось дійсно виходитб, що річ - це в першу чергу іі функція, а не вибір персоналізованих знаків\символів, націленй на продовження споживання-споживання-споживання, а через нього і на продовження соціального порядку...
Схоже на аналіз суспільства якоісь антиутопіі (щось подібне до "451° по Фаренгейту" Рея Бредбері, особливо у частині,присвяченій рекламі - хоч ця частина, як на мене,і найцікавіша).
А ще, окрім фрейдизму, мені вчувся достатній екзистенціалізм, а з ним песимізм і націленість на найгірше в людині...
А так цілком цікаво
a little bit boring actually.
While Baudrillard will subsequently develop his ideas of "consumption", "symbolic exchance", the "simulacra" and all other sorts of postmodern flourishesin his following works, The System of Objects remains a fantastic starting point which takes a much deeper look at the notion of consumerism as alienation than what most people in modern society tend to think about.**While this book is pretty heavy with references on semiotic-linguistics, psychoanalysis and other Marxian concepts in the first half, the latter half is a bit more clear for someone who hasn't delved into such subjects, but it would still be recommended to atleast have a minimal working knowledge of the aforementioned topics.
It has been several months since I read this, so I am a little hazy. In "System of Objects," Baudrillard illustrates how the modern experience is shaped, utterly, by the commodity form; how the privilege afforded the subject today is the right to disappear in the captain's seat of a ship that is totally automatic. "System of Objects" seems to me best read as an update of Lukacs' essay on reification. Of course, it takes the form of witty observations on interior design and advertising; the implications, though, go far beyond these observations.
saya baca ini karena tertarik diskursus mengenai 'benda-benda' yang berkembang di antara para disainer. arsitektur menarik juga dilihat dari perspektif ini, kerana produksi arsitektur kan juga tunduk pada dinamika produksi benda-benda, tidak hanya karena kehendak atau gairah estetik arsiteknya.
"Ideas are to objects as constellations are to stars." - Walter Benjamin“With the mass of objects grows the alien powers to which man is subjected, and each new product is a new potentiality of mutual fraud and mutual pillage.” – Karl Marx
I'm interested in design not from a commercial but a conceptual standpoint and this book has made me consider the many consequences that "functional" objects have in our daily lives. It is pretty dense at times but so comprehensive. I was especially interested in the section on "atmosphere."
I really need to read this again to understand it all.
Sometimes academically dull, sometimes exciting.
This book reiterates the view that objects that we may find around ourselves have an important bearings in that they inhere a certain meanings, representation and
review soon. rereading. this one is one of my favorites.
