https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77478.Object_Lessons
I forced myself to "muddle" through this one because I feel like I have given up on so many books lately. It seems that for every good book, there are 100 terrible books (this one falls into the latter category). I don't even reccomend it...to anyone. Sorry.
Maggie has the blandly obnoxious Debbie Malone, and Tom has Ben Rogers, Joe Harper, and -- dare I say it -- future hero Huck Finn.
Tom Sawyer and Maggie Scanlan are both expected to have brilliant futures, if they don't drown, burn, or blow themselves up in the process of having their amazing but never truly subversive teen adventures.
Tom has Injun Joe, and Maggie has her cousin Monica Scanlan.
Anna claims that Maggie and her luscious college girl mentor Helen are going to build "A New World" for all women -- but first the blondes have got to go the way of the Indians.
She's torn between two families: the well-to-do snobs of her father's lineage who seem to excel at looking down on others while failing to smell their own stink, and the more humble immigrants that her mother escaped from by getting pregnant before marriage.Told mostly from the perspectives of Maggie and her mother, this is the story of one pivotal summer, a place in time that Maggie, now an adult looking back, can pinpoint as the time when everything changed.While Maggie's specific experiences are unique (we didn't all spend summers as a teen lighting fires to partially built houses, for example), the feelings that her summer developed were very familiar.
I've read some really good books by this author but reading this was a chore. I had to force myself to slog through it, hoping it would get good. It didn't.
While I loved that is was essentially a feminist coming of age story, I had heard so many great things about Anna Quindlen that I expected to like it more than I did.
I rate this book a solid "fine". Quindlen's first book, it lacks the devastating plot points of her later work. I thought it made for pleasant reading without much to provoke thought or feeling.
I usually love Anna Quindlen’s work but not this one. I slogged through it. None of the characters were likable. I found it very depressing.
This novel got off to a slow start and I must admit I set it aside for a few days while I read other things.
In this, her first, novel, the times are changing and so are many of the characters' lives.
The family patriarch, John Scanlon, is used to getting his way in all things.
Their eldest child and only daughter is Maggie, who is a favorite of John's.
Maggie is the central character of this novel.
Over the course of the summer when Maggie turns thirteen, the lives of all of these characters change causing changes in all of the relationships.
But even though I didn't love the story, Quindlen will sometimes write an insight from a character that will make me gasp-and consequently understand myself more!!The insight in this story was when Margaret told Tommy to leave his mother alone when she couldn't decide on the details of a funeral.
You focus on the little details so you don't have to face the bigger ones." And suddenly I thought of myself and why I did the things I did when my father died.
I also thought it was insightful the way she described how Maggie's life could change so much in one summer.
12 year old Maggie Scanlan has one of those pivotal summers that people in books always seem to have.
I am also of that generation which was 12 years old about the same time as Maggie so I could relate to some of it - and some not.
Maybe because I grew up on the West Coast and was not a Catholic kid in New York, maybe because I was patently out of the loop (or backward) when I was 12, I have a hard time believing in what to me are implausibly precocious 12 year olds.
I liked how Quindlen presented a time period of change from the viewpoints of people outside of those changes; Helen Malone's storyline was a secondary one, but Maggie's experience of it, and her mother's, and her father's, all provided a new sort of perspective.
Quindlen also demonstrated that the gesture toward independence did not in any way affect everyone, nor did everyone want to experience it.I thought this was enjoyable; I liked some of the characters, disliked others, thought they were all believable and that they carried the novel well.
A coming of age novel, both in a literal and figurative sense. Young and old alike, the characters all realized in the end that whatever effect that other people have on them - genetically or otherwise, it is what they decide on what or who they will become that matters.The narrative was well put together, but I am a little bit wanting for more dialogue. Paragraphs seem to be unending, and they almost always lulled me to sleep.
I always enjoy Anna Quindlen and I read this book in the early 90's. The new lessons, phrases and ideas this re-read sparked, however, really surprised me. I guess "ages and stages" in life really does make a difference in what will resonate with a reader. Great read. Again.
There's a reason Anne Quindlen won the Pulitzer! It's because she is an incredible writer. GREAT coming of age book.
It took awhile for the book to get going but it's worth reading. I'm always a sucker for anything set in the 60's.
Loved the characters in this one, and the life lessons. Excellent.
Read 2011
DNF
I love Quindlan but this one didn't quite hang together. After I was done, I read it was her first novel, so I understood. I'd say it was only for die-hard Quindlan fans.
I would like to say it is mainly a coming of age story, but the mother and father are also learning lessons.
Some of them were lines that connected people - mother and father, friend to friend.
There are things that seem tremendously importat at the time and then years later you look back and thing you can't believe you ever worried so much about them.""She had supposed that a husband and children would teach her to be one of the group, but instead she felt more and more alone among more and more people, a woman whose universe was containeed beneather her own sternum.""This was what his entire married life had been like: long stretches of tedium illuminated by moments, unexpected, when he knew that without her he would be lost.
While it was a coming of age book, I kept expecting Maggie and her mother to be at complete odds by the end of the book.
I also expected the parents to be divorced, and Maggie's father Tommy Scanlan to commit some horrible act, but he's just a decent guy who loves his wife.
I liked how at the end of the book there were some exchanges between family members and actions that were meaningful.One reader/reviewer commented that Maggie at 12 (almost 13) did not seem realistic, as she (Maggie) was doing things that a 12/13 year old wouldn't be doing.
I was expecting one of those really easy to lose yourself in books.
I had started another of her books a few months ago while I was waiting for someone in the library.
But I wasn't, so I left it in the library, thinking "when summer comes..." I don't know if this book is just not as good as the one I dipped into before, or if the other would have been similarly uncaptivating.
Much of the book is about her daughter growing into her own identity, as well.
I think that if you are the type of person who likes to be pulled in immediately by the story and dislikes when so much of the story takes place in the characters head (i.e. thoughts), then you would probably not care for this book.
But I like books that pull you into the motives behind the actions.
However, I wasn't completely gripped until page 188 The main character is Maggie Scanlan, but we are also introduced to other members of her family and get to know them just as intimately as we do Maggie.
The entire book takes place in the summer of 1966.
It's a coming of age, so the main focus is on the sweeping changes in the lives of a mother and daughter over the course of a summer.
This book is full of strong, smart, amazing female characters.
While I enjoyed the portrayal of the town, the family and the characters of Maggie and Connie, I did find some of the storytelling a little sleepy.
Even the main characters seemed at a remove and I couldn't quite get a grasp on who they were.
I think feeling more of a connection would have warranted a better rating for this book, but I can't say I didn't enjoy the read.
Tommy Scanlan, 3rd son of a domineering, iron fisted Irish Catholic marries the most beautiful girl in his world, much to his father's dismay because Connie is Italian.
This is a problem for Jack Scanlan in 1960's Irish Catholic suburban New York City.
The rest of his children follow his directives, marry the women he chooses and work for him.
I love Anna Quindlen and was pleased to find this book - her debut novel.
I'm only giving it 3 stars however as it fell a little short of my expectations.
The characters were amazing.
Real, and in some cases bigger than life.
Having been in my teens in the 60's I thoroughly related to Maggie and even to some of the events that changed her life in the summer the book deals with.
Her extraordinary wisdom and strength of character enabled her grow up in a very short time.
I like Anna Quindlen but this book didn't "capture" me the way her other books.
Don't get me wrong - I *liked* it but I didn't fall into it the way one does with books.
I did appreciate the story and the charactes.
If there's one thing that Anna Quindlen does is make you believe & understand her characters.
I loved reading about Connie Scanlan, and she's the character that I was most interested in throughout the story.
:) It was a good book, glad I read it but wouldn't revisit this one.
It was good, not great.
The blurb says it is a coming of age story for 13 year-old Maggie Scanlon over a summer.
It is, but other characters evolve into themselves as well, as we take a peek into an ordinary extended family with a domineering patriarch."She felt the weight of all the wasted years, of the playacting that all of them had done while they lived with that great central figure...
Connie supposed that that was the sin for which they all will have to forgive John Scanlon, the sin of forcing them all to play their thankless roles."
As this is Anna Quindlen's first novel, I'd have to give her a 3.5. Although there wasn't much originality to this story, I really enjoyed the inner monologues of Connie and learning about the Scanlan clan. Quindlen will surprise you and write a few lines that make you gasp and have to read the sentence a few times. She's very subtle in the lessons she's trying to get across in this novel, and I love that so much. It's refreshing and cleansing- definitely a quick read.
Innocuous but engagingly written, this coming-of-age tale captures the emotions of girl on the cusp of adolescence. It's a time when alliances shift, roles get redefined, relationships change, insecurities arise, and you start to figure out that adults don't have all the answers. (And some are even unwilling to confront the questions.) A nice, easy read, especially for women over 30 seeking a hit of nostalgia.
