https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/356609.Warriors_Don_t_Cry
The amount of courage that she and the other students exhibited is incredible.Melba was threatened, taunted, and even had acid sprayed in her eyes.
I read this book with tears in my own eyes, ashamed at this part of our country's history.
It also made me question whether I would have had the courage, especially as a teenager, to endure what Melba and the other African-American students did.
If I'm completely honest, the answer to that question is a resounding NO.Kudos to schools who assign this book and unflinchingly explore this uncomfortable topic.
She was selected with eight other African-American students to attend and integrate Little Rock's Central High School.
Nineteen days after they first tried to attend school, a period filled with legal wrangling in federal court, they were escorted into Central High by the local police, only to leave early.
Beals and her friends never entered Central High through its main steps as their classmates did, but instead used a side entrance, sometimes leaving the school in armored vehicles or helicopters.
In the end, three members of the Little Rock Nine were able to graduate from Central High School, and the others finished their education elsewhere when the situation in Little Rock became too dangerous.
This is a powerful memoir about one girl's experience during a year of forced integration in Little Rock, Arkansas. I've been reading some of the cases in law school but it is a different thing to hear it from a 15 year old's perspective. Whether or not you agree with the politics, I think this makes for an interesting, thought-provoking read. (Also, I found it so absorbing I had to remind myself that this was Real Life and not fiction so I couldn't be disappointed when my ship died. But dang, Liam - sp? - was adorbs.)
I absolutely LOVED this book! The bravery of the Little Rock nine was an inspiration to me. I had no idea the extent of suffering these kids went through. They are true heroes!
That when the WHY is big enough, we can overcome ANY..HOW
I really did like this book because Melba is such a powerful black woman.
Melba tells her story how she goes to a school of white racist people who harassed her for her skin color.
Melba struggles a lot and is harassed by everyone.
My mom would say the same thing to me and how strong Melba is amazing.
Melba goes through so much through her life and loses her childhood innocence at such a young age.
Melba really is strong independent woman who achieved so much at young age and stood for civil rights.
This is a must read for everyone!
I liked the idea of sharing this story through the form of a book, but after a while it felt very repetitive.
I noticed that sometimes it would bring up an interesting topic, and then it would never go deeper into it.
I liked the story, but I wish it was written better and in greater detail.
I would recommend this book if you are interested in the topic, but otherwise this book might not be for you.
It was really a good story, and I really wish it had slowed down a little more often and explained things in better detail.
Board of Education, Melba was one of nine teenagers chosen to integrate Little Rock's Central High School."Growing up during the civil rights movement with its struggles to desegregate the nation's schools, I was acquainted with the story of the "Little Rock Nine," but never knew the inside story until now.
But through it all, she acted with dignity and courage, and refused to back down."Since those early days the Little Rock Nine have been honored by their school, their state and their nation many times.
In 2005 the Little Rock Nine returned to the Arkansas State Capitol to witness the unveiling of statues dedicated to their struggle, and to be celebrated by hundreds.
IT WAS AMAZING and the most ENGAGING book I've read in a long time.
My image of the Little Rock desegregation is probably like most people's: soldiers pave the way for some brave kids go to school among whites.
They gave away their childhoods in order to make better lives for all people, a sacrifice they couldn't have possibly understood at the time they courageously agreed to break the color barrier.
The dignity and self-discipline these kids exhibited at such a young age (Melba was only 15) are a lesson to me and anyone else who reads this book.
But through it all, she acted with dignity and courage, and refused to back down.This is her remarkable story.Melba Patillo Beals, who as a teenager in 1957 became a key player in a critical civil rights struggle, has abridged for young readers her affecting adult title Warriors Don't Cry: A Searing Memoir of the Battle to Integrate Little Rock's Central High School.Teaching Ideas: This is a great book to introduce middle or high school students to a unit based around the Civil Rights.
This is also a great book for teaching figurative language, both in analyzing it as a reader and using it as a model as a writer.
We get a view of both her headline-making efforts to integrate Central High and her personal world of a normal teenager (crushes, drama with friends, clashes with family, etc.).It's literally impossible for me to imagine what it would be like to go to school under these conditions.
This book makes me both ashamed and fiercely proud to be American.
I wish I could ask the author how she managed to not hate White people for life after something like this.I would love to know more about which, if any, of the Little Rock Nine's tormentors ever publicly atoned for the atrocities they committed against their fellow Americans.
A searing, difficult, wonderful read by one of the 9 children who integrated Little Rock Central HS in 1957 against the wishes of the thousands who mobbed the school daily and many of the white students who did their best, with the help of the abolitionist adults and the Governor of Arkansas, to make life so difficult and miserable for the 9 that they would die or drop out.
Melba Pattillo Beals brings the reader into her world for the year she holds her head high while dreading the daily fear, pain, and loneliness she proudly faces.
Certainly not Melba who told her story with the help of her journal and newspaper stories.
Melba Patillo beals really does an excellent job of making you feel and vision what the little rock nine experienced. Through all those times they were being mistreated and abused in every possible way due to the complexion of their skin, they never gave up. Ofcourse at times they felt that the conditions were too overwhelming but they never thought that what they were doing was a complete waste and that it wasn't worth it. Yes, integrating Central High would be an impediment. But they were willing to face it.
Devastating. It's terrifying to read about huge numbers of adults and children so completely abandoning empathy and common decency, even in a media spotlight and under judicial pressure. They were so committed to their hate. We have so much to atone for, even as we continue to offend. The author's courage in the face of all the abuse is mind-boggling.
My heart is full. I don't know what to say, other than the injustice in this world sickens me. "What are men to do in the face of such hate?""We ride out and meet them."16 year old Melba Pattillo did just that.Awesome.
Remember the Titans is about a high school named Alexandria and it ended up having to integrate an all black school with an all white school, and then there was a lot of tension and segregation, just like the same situation that happened at Central High.
As we know, this book was written in the times of segregation, so when they arrived at the school, they were treated very poorly, receiving threats from parents with a white kid, getting tripping on purpose and just getting bullied nonstop.
Melba, thank you for being brave, once again, and writing this book.
We learn about this moment in class, but by reading this book, we're in the school with Melba and her other friends.
In this book, you see the cruel racism Melba faced as an INFANT and a child.
She includes her own statements that were made during the first year of integration and how it took away her teen social life.Guys, there is racism in this book, which is seen as an obvious.
We see racism a lot through social media, but reading about Melba's experience is still scary.
She and some of her friends sign up to go to the same school as white American students.
How the white American don't want black to go to the same school with their children and try to stop the black kid.
I don't have favorite park in this book because is all about how people were treated different than other and that is not what I expect to see, but my what I like about this book is that how this girl and her friends are tough and go through it with all this mess.
I read this book after my son read it for a class and was staggered by the immediacy of the reading experience.
Melba Pattillo Beals was one of the Little Rock Nine students who braved violence and death threats to integrate Central High School in Little Rock in 1957.
But Beals is also a phenomenal writer.
I have given this book as gifts and those who read it were as staggered and educated by it as I was.I'm now reading March Forward, Girl [https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3...], which begins with Beals' awareness, confusion, and anger at the difference between how whites and blacks were treated--at the age of three years old.
Honestly, I was very reluctant to start this book. It seemed long and boring. But after about the first chapter, I realized it was written by the main character and it was all about her being a warrior on the Central High battlefield. This memoir was incredibly descriptive, intriguing, heartbreaking and heartwarming at the same time! I love Melba's strength and positive attitude. She challenged herself to follow God's wishes for her to persevere through all of the harassment and negativity. I'm excited to say that Warriors Don't Cry is one of the best books I've ever read!
I loved this story!The amount of bravery exuded from such a young lady is quite remarkable.I've read other reviewers upset with Beals for including so much of her religious belief in this story but I believe it was necessary to humanize her. The stories told in this memoir were truly shocking and I felt for young Melba in a very special way. She is truly a hero in my eyes. A highly recommended read!BTW, there was a movie made about Ernest Green's year in Central High that I would highly recommend to supplement this book.
I am a historian by academic training, yet I knew precious little about this story.
I'd heard of The Little Rock Nine and seen the famous photo of them marching in to Central High.
But that's about it.I was blissfully naive about the intensity and extensive length of time these children were bullied by kids and adults alike.
I had no idea the governor and state troopers were so awful.
Melba's story gives insight into both the high level and daily horrors they faced.I highly recommend this book to both adults and teens.
The themes are frighteningly apt for today.
I really enjoyed this book. I don’t usually read nonfiction or memoirs but I liked this one. It informed me about the past very well. The author doesn’t sugarcoat anything, and it is a truly riviting story . I would recommend this to people interested in memoirs, historical novels, or people interested in black history.
If this was a novel, you would think the terrible things in this book couldn't really happen. That is not the case, this is a true story. As the title suggests, these warriors were heroes to live through the year at Little Rock High School. A great read, and primary account of this historic event. Enjoy!
A heartbreakingly honest account of the integration of Little Rock’s Central High School. I cried multiple times at the raw honesty of Melba’s journey.
Melba Beals was one of nine black teenagers chosen to integrate Central High School in Little Rock, Arkansas.
It was 1957 and though the 1954 Supreme Court case, Brown vs.
Board of Education, ruled separate public schools unconstitutional, the battle was far from over.
Melba shares their daily encounter with taunts, threats, physical attacks, and spiritual struggles.
Yet her story is also one of courage, strength, and hope.
I especially enjoyed reading about her grandmother: such a strong woman, passing along the wisdom of Gandhi to her granddaughter to help her get through!
I normally don't like these types of books, but I loved this book. It was an amazing story! I loved the little journal bits i though those were amazing! All in all I loved this book!

Very powerful and is a fantastic book.
