https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40881942-wild-at-heart-revised-and-updated
In order to be emotionally alive, a man must do wild and adventurous things -- the kind of things that appeal to machismo outdoorsy types -- in order to fire his primitive instincts and fulfill his true created purpose as a "warrior" made in the image of God. Never mind, of course, that not all men are made "alive" by doing masculine things, much less outdoorsy things, which the Coloradoan Eldredge sees as a litmus test for all things masculine.Eldredge's message, in short, has been taken way too far.
After my husband read it, it was as though he came alive for the first time.
Though there are sections that I would drastically edit (and so would my husband), I found the heart of Eldredge's message incredibly moving, necessary, and paradigm-altering.
I have consulted with other women who have read this book cover to cover, and they, too, feel that Eldredge truly understands a woman's heart.
One note: only read this book if you are starting with the assumption that men and women are fundamentally different.
He does not address the philosophy that men and women are the same except for nurturing practices.
I can honestly say that I find this book trite, over-espoused, and drastically overadored by a great many men and women that I generally like and enjoy spending time with.
It just makes me not a person who fits comfortably into any of the suggested roles that John Eldridge tells us that men secretly long for.I don't want and never wanted to be a knight, saving fair damsels from horseback and fighting off all the monsters and dragons the dark corners of the world could come up with.
I'm not dissing those experiences, and I'm thankful that they've happened for other folks.
Where in the Bible does it really suggest that men should be "Wild at Heart?" living constantly on the edge and taking all kinds of risks and engaging in dangerous activities. Of course this idea will appeal to younger men and new Christians but it is completely the opposite of the Biblical model of denying self and taking up the cross to follow Jesus. There's nothing weak or unmanly about that!
As soon as men stop attempting to ascribe to outdated theistic (and frankly trite) models of masculinity, the world will be a much safer, better place.
I pity women who read this and think they may have come away with a greater understanding of men, as it's a false understanding of throwback, primitive males who have no place in a world culture that can no longer support the aggression and chromosomal ennui predicated upon concepts that fall somewhere between moronic piety and some suppressed lizard brain urge that results in antisocial behavior.
One glaring example of this that is crucial to the book's central argument is that because Adam was created in the wilderness and *then* put into the Garden of Eden and Eve was created *in* Eden that this somehow accounts for why men crave adventure and the wilderness while women desire to be safe and sound in a domesticated place.
Another example of Eldredge reading his own ideas into the text comes with his treatment of the book of Ruth.
The problem with men, he argues, is that their mothers, wives, and the Church has tried to tame them and make them "nice boys," instead of the wild adventurers that their hearts crave to be.
It taught me to reduce the number of 'NOs' I use on boys because as John Eldredge says, 'God designed men to be dangerous.' they are just wild and as a woman, you need to relax and let them be.John Says, "Adventure, with all its requisite danger and wildness, is a deeply spiritual longing written into the soul of man.
Where there is room for the soul."Here are some few points I noted while reading this book that try to explain how man is created in Gods image.
Why do I like to drive motorcycles, why do I love to travel the world where the average person dare not tread.
God has a wild and dangerous aspect to His personality.
God designed men to be dangerous, says Eldredge.
Simply look at the dreams and desires written in every boy's heart: to be a hero, to be a warrior, to live a life of adventure and risk.
In this provocative book, Eldredge gives women a look inside the true heart of a man and gives men permission to be what God designed them to be---dangerous, passionate, alive, and free.
Eldredge took Robert Bly's splendid, groundbreaking, ennobling book Iron John: A Book About Men as his inspired point of departure & produced, in Wild at Heart, a Christian treatise on masculinity that is, ultimately, as dangerous & misguided a book as I've ever read.
I'd bought the book & had been looking forward to finding it an inspiring fusion of Bly's masculine sensibilities with Christian wisdom, but found, instead, a book that was chilling where I'd expected it to be enlightened; I returned it for a refund after mulling over whether or not to burn it.
I hate this book so much.
To live for an adventure, to rescue a beauty and to fight a battle.
Sounds like a story...like a tale of dragons, ladies in distress and war for the homeland against the dreaded enemy...like all movies...great books...great tales...stories tell of woes, foes and overcoming great obstacles.
But are we as men equipped to go on adventures, strong enough to rescue the lady in distress and brave enough to fight the foes for those we love?
If you think, want and hope and desire for more to life...READ THIS BOOK.
There is more, plenty more, and, you have everything needed to live life with freedom, excitement and purpose.
This is such an incredible book. It gives you insight from when you were little up to where you are now. It made me think of a lot of things I hadn't really thought about before.
Let me explain.The writer suggests that boys, sorry men, have this need and desire to be in the wilderness, where he can create his own ?dangerous?
Obviously his attackers are greater than he, but somehow, this young man fights against all odds, to win the heart of his true beauty.The writer suggests that men crave this desire to fight for someone, the women he has been looking for.
He cares for you men out there too.God creating man in his own image, so of course He will be the only one who can define the masculine heart.
3. If you are not completely a frozen popsicle inside, then the book tries to inspire you to be more fully alive - seeking out your dreams, the very nature of your existence - dare to explore, take risks, and find a true calling.What I did not like: 1.
As a caveat, it is fair to say the author also delves into the idea of fighting for things that are right, which I fundamentally agree with.
I also think the theme of giving up control to God is literally the only way that we can have a true relationship with Him. Therefore, as we cede control we gain everything vs.
Is Eldredge so confused as to the true nature of Christian manhood that he really thinks the William Wallace portrayed in Gibson's film is a good example for us?As for the subtitle: I know the secret of a man's soul, and it's not what Eldredge suggests.
The secret of every soul is that it is wicked and unclean until Jesus Christ redeems it, and that "masculinity" is simply a fulfilling of the role God gives you first as His child and second as a man.
Okay, I would definitely have to agree that if you have a son, if you are married to a man, if you have a brother or a father, or if you have ever had a conversation with a man you should definitely read this book!It really was just so enlightening to what makes a little boy a little boy and how those things don't really change when that boy grows up.
But it's not in a Men are from Mars sort of way (or maybe it is, I actually haven't read that book!).
Guys just are not allowed to be guys as much now and that is certainly not how I want to raise my son.
I want to raise a warrior.
This book allowed me to focus what I wanted in a man in a way that was refreshing and much more focused on his natural abilities of being "wild at heart." In the same way that men were created to be adventurous and seekers of challenges, Eldredge points out that women were created to be beauties and shines when she is being admired and loved for her beauty.
He wasn't talking about just an outwardly beauty but beauty that shines from inside out.
It is the most beautiful and most satisfying state of being one can ever be.Eldredge narrows such a broad topic of the difference between men and women to the most fundamentally understandable ways.
It's funny to me now as I write this, I thought I had the reason I love taking off on an adventure figured out, but there was always something missing in my reasoning...this book helped me to solidify my thinking.The author calls us out in our thinking as men and women.
The book helped to solidify my own thinking about God, Christianity, why I went to Sea, who I am as a Man, how I relate to women and why I still wish to be "out there" in the world on a continuous adventure...why I will go back to Sea alone, exploring the wonders of this planet(well, I will be taking my dog next time, so not completely alone.
Instead of going on a complete rant and diatribe that nobody would read, but might make me feel better, I will highlight some of my problems with this book.1.
Eldredge then suggests that Jesus was more like Wallace (a fictional character....yes to my atheist friends, the irony is not lost on me).
If you are going to write a book on men...please do some research other than watching movies.
Movies may be good examples...but when you write stuff like, "I think me are like....(fill in adjective) because  Gladiator  makes me feel good..." you have a problem.
UHG!
This book is bad news.
John teaches a man to live according to the wild nature of his flesh, rather than according to the grace and love of the Spirit of God. As if a man can be spiritually free if He's emotionally free and wild?
This is not the message of Christ, nor His gospel.Christ didn't come with an attitude of macho-ism.
He came in meekness gentleness and love.
He is an all powerful God, and He is not a containable God, but that doesn't make Him wild like the nature of the flesh!
This was an awesome book. The book is intended for men, as they usually enjoy the outdoors more than women.... My friends know differently, atleast in my case! It really focuses on spirituality in a "man's" view. It involved nature and I learned something about men at the same time. I loved it and would recommend it to anyone, male or female. Although it is a Christian book, it really has lessons to be learned for all faiths. However, there are some portions that did not always make sense to me and my opinions.
I'd fight that kid." Taken aback, I had to ask for clarification, "Wait, you're telling me, as a grown man, you'd go back and beat up a kid?
You wouldn't face him as an adult?" Unflinching the professor said, "Well, I may have fought back as a kid, but I was always taught to turn the other cheek, and it emasculated me.
He went on to tell me how so many Christian young men are taught to turn the other cheek and then never stand up for themselves.
I also feel like this book prepared me for fatherhood, being a better husband, and overall, being a better man.
This isn't even about turning the other cheek anymore, this is about teaching your kid that retaliation is ok.
And he even had a plan (1 Peter 1:20).There are some good points, and the guy isn't a cult leader or anything, but in general, I think the book gives men permission to blame other people for their problems, and misguides them on their journey to true manliness.(But don't ask me what true manliness is.
That's the beauty of giving a book review on the internet.)
For me and many of my guy friends this book was important in letting us accept our manhood and face the deep questions and wounds of our masculinity.
I don't believe that this book appeals to all guys like it did to us already adventuresome "manly men".
I have heard him criticized for making it seem like real men have to be outdoorsmen and do crazy stuff.
He makes no such claims and I think the reason people have a problem with it is that they could be supersensitive to the topic.
If you like books that foster gender biases by speaking to, and encouraging humanities' lowest common denominator, this books for you.If you can make it through the first 3/4's of sexist sludge, Eldredge does manage to say some intelligent things about brokenness.That said, those specks of light are far-and-few between, and aren't enough to redeem the amount of damage this book caused (and causes) the Christian community.Much of this disconnect is simply a difference in opinion.
If not, than skip it - unless you're looking for a toilet-paper substitute.P.S. I wasn't lying about the bathroom thing.
Many of my male friends in college recommended this book to me, so i finally read it in the summer of '04, my first summer away from home.
I did not find it as "enlightening" as they did, though I did enjoy it.
The author has some good insight into the mind's of Christian men, though I feel he over-dramatizes certain ideas in the book.
I would recommend the book to any man who would like to hear idea on men and their relationship to God, but I would encourage readers to decide, on their own, how much/little the book applies to their own lives.
Enjoy.
A very disturbing book that pays no heed to particularity or Biblical interpretation. John is neither a theologian nor a psychologist but occupies the bland middle ground of knowing just enough to be damaging but not enough to recognize how much damage his views cause.
I believe there are some truthful, biblical teachings in this book.
But they are coincidental and complementary, and do not contribute to the author's main points on the best masculine life: an adventure to live, a battle to fight, a beauty to rescue.It is very possible to glean some truth here and there.
But if the reader pays attention to everything being said, it is unscriptural, and ultimately not a true teaching that every male can or should apply.
I did personally resonate with most of the author's "lifestyle" ideals, and I did feel that they might be true for me.
John takes a look at what makes the masculine heart and soul come alive and then explores how we need to call that out in our journey to manhood.He starts off the book by addressing "the wound".
Everyone has wounds and John does a great job of unpacking the wounds most men receive and how to recover their masculine hearts, given to us in the image of a passionate God.John explores three big theme's that he says are essential to men; a battle to fight, a beauty to rescue, and an adventure to live.A battle to fight: I think this really hit home for me as I watch my 3 year old nephew play.
This book is neither "dangerous" nor "naive," despite what others claim.In offering my own critique, I will note that Eldredge's presentation of ideas has some rough edges that could stand to be smoothed and that a few of his minor conclusions probably ought to be taken with a grain of salt.
Overall, the book presents a truly thought-provoking message.It must be acknowledged that, just like nearly any other book, Wild at Heart has a target audience and a niche that will probably appreciate its message more than others.
