https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19292587-the-middle-parts-of-fortune
A year later it was bowdlerised and re-released as Her Privates We, the title under which it's still published by many modern editors, although it's not clear to me which version of the text is being used by who.It's a great book anyway, and one that reminded me very much of Henri Barbusse's Le Feu. They have many incidents in common, but they also both depend stylistically on naturalistic slang, and they both spend the bulk of their time examining the interminable boredom that comprised ninety percent of soldiers' lives – the forced marches, billeting in tiny French villages in the rain, linguistic misunderstandings, trench philosophising, drinking binges in two-bit estaminets, the petty politics between different officers.
Bourne is one of the men, but also feels a sense of difference: “He was not of their county, he was not even of their country… He felt like an alien among them.”The novel is very well written and focuses on the day to day grind of the ordinary soldier, in the trenches, being moved around the countryside regularly, doing boring and menial tasks, parading, managing officers (commissioned and non-commissioned) and managing to get the occasional night out.
I think this novel does capture the sense of how ordinary soldiers were feeling very well.
It does accurately depict war, at least the First World War, and those aspects of the book which I had disliked do make sense when you understand how the book ends.
I never felt him to be one of the low rank soldiers; this had bothered me throughout the entire book.
Bourne’s thoughts reflect the author’s thoughts and the critical views of many after the war’s end.
On completion of the book one is compelled to read about the author’s own life.
However between then and now, many books have been written that reveal the reality of war.
IntroductionAuthor's Prefatory Note (1929)--The Middle Parts of Fortune: Somme and Ancre, 1916
Wikipedia tells me that Frederic Manning (1882-1935) was an Australian poet and novelist, but in the introduction to Frederic Manning’s The Middle Parts of Fortune Simon Caterson tells us that Nettie Palmer rued that Australia could not really claim him.
I suspect that no Englishman of his class in his era could have written with such authenticity about life in the ranks during the Great War.The Middle Parts of Fortune was first published in an anonymous limited edition in 1929 under the authorship of ‘Private 19022′.
Manning’s authenticity includes some lively dialogue in the … a-hem … vernacular , so much so that an expurgated edition entitled Her Privates We was published in 1930.
The officers have some of that, and our hero, an intelligent enlisted man, certainly has moments of anger at his superiors, but often he recognizes the pressures on them and the care they take in leading the men.
The book has lots of highly believable dialogue among the enlisted men, sometimes as they slog through the boredom of army life and sometimes as they prepare to go over the top of the trenches and head through no man's land.
Our hero is an interesting fellow, not like the enlisted men and not like the officers, but he gets on well with most all of them.
Blunden, Graves, and Aldington, as well as Siegfried Sassoon, were all privately educated university men at a time when very few Brits could say that.
As a result, the picture of Britain's war that emerges from the literature is disproportionately posh.
With their grim humour and determination, these men, as much as their well educated officers, were the raw material of Britain's military success in the First World War. This book takes a closer look at them than any other and, as a result, is perhaps the most enlightening piece of British literature to emerge from the trenches.
How does the average bloke face the fate of being a tiny cog in a mindless war machine?
‘The finest and noblest book of men in war that I have ever read.
I read it over once each year to remember how things really were so that I will never lie to myself nor to anyone else about them.’Ernest Hemingway‘A classic of enduring validity.
I know of no story of the first world war which is so effectively written, not only from the ranks, but from the point of view of the ranks it remains, with Richard Mahony, almost alone among the products of Australian writers.’Australian Book Review‘No praise could be too sheer for this book.
This is singularly the finest novel I've read concerning the lives of combatants in WWI.
Fighting or "going over the top" make up only a small portion of the narrative which deals primarily the minds of the common soldier; how they support one another; how the cope with inner and outer hardships; and often, how they find solace in one another and through simple events.
I keep comparing this novel in my mind to "All Quite On The Western Front".
Both are truly excellent works, but to me, the minds of the soldiers are better explored by Manning.
The best book I've read written by someone who was in the trenches.
Superb in understanding, in character development, in revealing what life was like on The Somme both in battle and between "shows".
I feel I know him better through reading this book.
Hemingway read it every July to remind himself what it was like and to counsel himself against failing to tell it as it was.
I have barely begun to absorb what this book has to tell me.I'm not sure my mind is big enough to contain all I might learn from this.
Portrayed very well the tedium of a soldier's life, the petty squabbling between officers, and the commitment to not imagine the future, but the problem with that is that it made the book tedious. The author did do a good job of capturing the vernacular of the common soldier, and I like the description of how in battle the differences between extremities of feelings are collapsed such that hope and despair, and determination and terror exist simultaneously. But mostly I found it meandering and sometimes clumsy.
I followed a train of thought via the internet a few weeks back and ended up reading about the Ottoman Empire in WWI and how it was one of four empires toppled by the war.
Along with histories of the war, Middle Parts of Fortune came up as a classic piece of WWI fiction, prized in part because of its realistic portrayal of the war from a soldier’s point of view.
Bottom line, the characters are interesting, the setting compelling and writing good so, if you think you would enjoy an evenly paced WWI character driven novel then you will likely love this book.
Thank you Book Club, for giving me this amazing, mesmerising, unforgettable book I would never have otherwise read.
Apparently this book has been lauded as a classic by notables such as TS Eliot, and now I know why.
The book builds relationships, quietly draws the reader in, makes us care about these people in these extraordinary circumstances, then strikes.
The horrors of war are always present, but lurking in the background.
I really loved this book- the writing is beautiful, the story is simple but unforgettable.
As all great books do, this book will stay with me.
Strengths:- Honest in its depiction of war by including the mundane and the vulgar.- Captures the voices of soldiers well.- Provides some interesting and at times profound insight into the mind of a soldier and his thoughts on war.Weaknesses:- The writing, while not absolutely awful, is still fairly weak and uninspiring.
This is the main issue with the book for me personally as it turned what could have been a powerful read into a chore.
- Too many philosophical interludes that meander and break the flow of the narrative.- Although I appreciate the accuracy of the book, this is unfortunately a very dull read.
The descriptions of action and characters are so vividly written. I got this as a library loan but want to buy it now so that I can re-read, and learn how to improve my own writing. The ending was unexpected, beautiful and perfect; it lingered and I wanted it to. The senseless of war is well illustrated.
Probably the best fictional account of men in the first world war that I've read.Exceptional.
in all honesty, i only read this because it's been sitting on my shelf for 3 years and i felt bad leaving it behind without having opened the front cover
I en tercer lloc perquè encara que no creguis massa en allò de "conèixer la Història per no repetir els errors" i etc (i jo hi crec poqueeet poquet), has d'admetre que la majoria de vegades, per intentar entendre, el millor és tirar una mica més enrere (una mica, sense passar-se, o entres en els típics bucles que tampoc ajuden).Aquesta "mica més", en el meu cas, va començar per l'Europa d'entreguerres, amb els seus Balcans, república de Weimar, imperis esclatant en quaranta-mil bocinets, Societat de Nacions...
Coses que són part de l'explicació de les revolucions socialistes, els feixismes, l'internacionalisme que portarà a l'ONU...M'ha passat, però, el mateix que amb altres llibres paradigmàtics de l'antibel·licisme: no tinc clar que aquest antibel·licisme ho sigui tant, o si més no aconsegueixi el que pretenia sent-ho.
Remarkably, the dialogue rings true, even as the men wax philosophical on war and its futilities:"We're fightin' for all we've bloody got," said Madeley, bluntly."An' that's sweet fuck all," said Weeper Smart.
Them as thinks different can 'ave all the bloody war they want, and me own share of it, too.""Well, what the 'ell did you come out for?" asked Madeley.Weeper lifted up a large, spade-like hand with the solemnity of one making an affirmation."That's where th'ast got me beat, lad," he admitted.
Let them as made the war come an' fight it, that's what a say.""That's what I say, too," said Glazier, a man of about Madeley's age, with an air of challenge.
Bourne goes into action into German positions, kills one German and sees his troops wounded and killed.
Bourne is offered a commission but he is not keen on taking it.Next day they spend most of the time walking and travelling to their new station.
Returning he offers a pipe to the Frenchman in thanks for his care of his injury.Troops are continuously on the move from one town to the next.
Bourne returns and remains in shock after having seen young Martlow killed.Finally, Bourne is promoted to Lance Corporal and is to go away for officer's training.
This book is a fictional account of a group of soldiers during the First World War. Most of the book deals with life at the front, not so much in the trenches as moving around, marching, carrying equipment, scrounging for food and wine, and dealing with officers. The main part of the war story is in the last 10 pages, where they venture into no-mans-land.  A lot of the converstation is trying to reproduce the dialects of Scots, Welsh, English, which works quite well, but at the same time is pro
Though I read it almost 50 years ago.Here is a quote from the end of THE MIDDLE PARTS OF FORTUNE.The party moved off, and for a moment Sergeant-Major Tozer was alone in the trench with Sergeant Morgan."I saw him this side of their wire, sergeant-major, and thought everything would be all right.
'Pon my word, I would 'ave gone back for 'im myself, if I'd known.""It was hard luck," said Sergeant-Major Tozer with a quiet fatalism.Sergeant Morgan left him; and the sergeant-major looked at the dead body propped against the side of the trench.
“We’re just ‘umped an’ bumped an’ buggered about all over fuckin’ France, while them as made the war sit at ‘ome waggin’ their bloody chins, an’ sayin’ what they’d ‘ave done if they was twenty years younger.
Wish to Christ they was, an’ us’ns might get some leaf an’ go ‘ome an’ see our own folk once in a while."Manning was better educated and some years older than a lot of the men he served with.
The juxtaposition of these thoughts with the day to day concerns of feet, food, fleas and the fundamentals of living make this a powerful book.
In tutto il mondo, riporta alla memoria anche il 1945, anno in cui si concluse la mattanza della seconda guerra globale.La letteratura, come è ovvio, ha attinto ad entrambi i tragici eventi.
E se nella memoria e nel cuore resiste il ricordo indelebile di “Niente di nuovo sul fronte occidentale”, grazie alla lista dei 1001 libri da leggere ho scoperto una ulteriore testimonianza drammaticamente viva di una delle più terribili carneficine della storia.“Fino all’ultimo uomo” uscì nel 1929 come opera di “Soldato semplice 19022”, pseudonimo dietro cui – occultandosi dietro il suo vero numero di matricola in guerra – si nascondeva Frederic Manning, poeta e studioso di letteratura greca.
One of the things that stands out is the ultra-realism of the language and dialogue; it reads exactly how you imagine a group of young men at war would talk.
A large chunk of this novel is set behind the front, as the men rotate out of the front line before the next big offensive.I listened to this book as an audiobook, which I think was the wrong way to consume it.
As a book I actually sat down and read over a couple of days in big chunks, I think I would have found it absorbing.
However, the style didn't particularly lend itself to the audiobook format and I often found my mind wandering.
There are at least two stories here - one is about the book with it being only available as a limited edition until the 1970's yet despite this being seen as a classic of world war one literature.
The other is the content of the book.
The author has a very authentic voice and it is clearly in part autobiographical.
There are many references to hierarchy in the army and the main characters/ authors reluctance to be an officer.
THE MIDDLE PARTS OF FORTUNE. (1929). Frederic Manning. *****. Manning (1882-1935) was a poet who was active around the turn of the century. He served in the trenches during WW I, and this book, although fiction, is an autobiographical account of his experiences during the war in France. The book has an interesting history which you should look up on Google. This was initially published as a limited edition, but finally published in an expurgated edition and was a best seller. It came out the sam
Frederic Manning.
Manning (1882-1935) was a poet who was active around the turn of the century.
He served in the trenches during WW I, and this book, although fiction, is an autobiographical account of his experiences during the war in France.
The book has an interesting history which you should look up on Google.
It came out the same year as “All Quiet on the Western Front,” and “A Farewell to Arms,” and was, in my opinion a far better book than either of those.
It was finally published in an unexpurgated edition in 1977, but by that time, WW I novels were not top of readers’ minds.
A rare peace of First World War literature- written from the perspective of an ordinary soldier, rather than the officer class.
Perhaps unsurprisingly, the experiences of the ordinary soldier were often even worse.
The description of the horrors of the front in the final chapters is so powerful that it is difficult to close the book without concluding that the entire leadership of the UK and Germany should have been put on trial for war crimes against their own peoples.
War literature at its most powerful.
I never did understand the main character, who prefers the liceridden life of his company to the clean orderly room, but I did like the matter-of-factness about this novel.
In spite of flowerly Shakespeare to open each chapter, the mood is humdrum.
Someone needs to scout over here.
There certainly is no sense of the greatness of the Great War on the part of the protagonist.
Someday nobody alive will know these songs, and it will be a shame because to paraphrase Garrison Keillor, they are not sung much any more, but remain great songs.
I don't know if I would call it searing or noble, as the blurbs on the back does, but it is certainly an important work that has a voice not often heard in WW1 literature.
but the voice of the common soldier, mostly behind the lines, struggling to survive but mostly resigned to the futility of it all, but with most thought of what the future will bring strongly suppressed.
It was obviously important to the author to bring this side of the war to the public who would have no idea of how the men might have really felt and to honor his chums by telling it.
