https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6262365-tempted
And I think we can all agree Aphrodite was kind of slutty way back then, what with her forcing her company on an obviously uninterested, slightly disgusted Eric all the time.
My point is now Aphrodite is committed to a nice guy who loves & respects her, and Zoey is lusting after/sexing/heavily-petting/groping/making out with just about every guy that comes her way.
And yes, I know I'm probably the only person who actually liked Heath (you slags were wanting him to die and you know it!) but I don't care.
I actually liked the interactions between Zoey and Heath.
I actually kind of liked Zoey when she was with Heath--I could relate to her.
*gasp* She, the important one, with a shitload of problems involving danger, can't concentrate because something happened (I thought it was kinda okay, not bad) and she can't choose the right guy!
I can't even say emotional development because while the main character *kind of* gets things sometime, I would expect her to - oh I don't know - mature a little after 5+ books?
The actual plot is weakening but I'd like to see what happens after a side-problem is complete.
- The word u-we-tsi-a-ge-ya or whatever the hell her grandmother calls her in EVERY sentence was used probably 756 times.
Jack cries anytime Zoey sneezes.
No guy with attached testicles and dignity is going to follow Zoey around like a puppy, catering to her and watching her make out with each of her boyfriends, then act like she is a victim and agree to sharing her with each of the guys.
I thought I'd continue reading it because I'd like to see if the Casts could either a) redeem themselves through the next 54 books, or b) outdo themselves in stupidity.
The House of Night series I feel has become a great disappointment, don’t know what the HON series is, I don’t have the time to explain.This book picks up right after the showdown between Kelona and Zoey and her goons.
Basically just a bunch of adolescents using swear words, and throwing in slang’s because nothing says teenager like slang’s.Did anything eventful happen in this book, honestly I can’t even say because I am trying to forget the time I wasted on this, the Cast’s needs a serious reality check.
Like sex is everything to these characters but lest we forget “ Zoey ain’t no HO” thing is she can’t help how she feels cus all these guys r so hot.
I really enjoy the Kalona and Neferet story arc, and I REALLY liked that we finally got some chapters from other character's perspectives.
I'm sorry, but the Zoey-going-out-of-her-way-not-to-cuss thing is getting RIDICULOUS.
So Zoey saying things like, "I'm sorry I dragged you into all this poo" and "That's a bunch of bullpoopie" is just downright ridiculous.
It is just really ridiculous, and drags me out of the plot everytime she says it.I was happy this book focused less on her guy problems, though.
And thanks a lot, for ending the book so ambiguously that I am now actually excited to read the next one.
OMFG!!!!!
Okay, "The End For Now." Who ends a book like that????!!!!
And I was just starting to like Heath!!!!!!!
I was totally Blissed out that she finally dumped that asshat Eric, But I was just starting to like Heath!
He wasn't a Stark, but he did get really sweet!!!!!
I really don't think there is any way for her to fall for Kolana now.
She didn't drown on the island with Stark just out of her reach.
Her soul shattered with Stark just out of her reach.
I think it had the same intended affect.DAMN!!!!
And you know what was really annoying?
I mean, why did everyone in this book just start saying this phrase?
1 boyfriend down right?
Maybe she really is dead and the next book will just be some even crazier random shit about Buffy killng all of them and then the humans live happily ever after.
Okay, I can dream though, right?
I know this is a vampire book, but can we at least be a LITTLE bit more realistic?
And whoever can say that they liked this book, obviously doesn't know what a good, detailed book is.~T
I mean, you have books like Twilight getting all that crap about the MC being a bad influence, but come on … Zoey does next to nothing except walk around and let boys drool over her.
Too bad.As for the other couples … It sort of ticks me off that Stevie Rae is now becoming like Zoey and has like three boyfriends, which is stupid because I don't even know what the significance of those boyfriends is.
I hated how Zoey was like "Heehee, I hope Stevie Rae will have lots of boyfriends like me, and then everyone can start calling her a slut instead of me!" I mean, really?
The sixth book in The House of Night series.
It’s been 3 years since I read and like Stephanie Meyer’s Twilight (the book, not the movie).
Not that I am praying that she’ll end up with some vampire-man who will have to break the wedding bed on their first night.In this book, that relationship between a teenage vampyre (yes, the spelling is like this courtesy of the mother-daughter tandem writers: the Casts) and a grownup is beautifully depicted by Zoey Redbird and her grandmother.
About the start of August both Untamed and Hunted were (FINALLY) released in Australia... so I'm really hoping that means we'll get Tempted the same time its released in America! (but my mum isn't... apparently I should be studying instead of reading...)Logically Zoey will get with Stark, because he's the only one who hasnt gotten or caused a broken heart yet. Also, because he's gorgeous, whereas Heath is obsessive and Erik is possessive. It's the best way.
I read people throwing the book, screaming, all sorts of things, so at least I was prepared.
I don't want to put any spoilers in here for fear of ruining the book for someone else, but if you've read it then you know what I'm talking about when I say this....I pray he comes back, it doesn't feel right without him there.
Cast authors, I really hope you do the right thing for the next book.
I think if you don't, I truly might throw this next one and refuse to ever read another again.
The authors have a nice material to work on, and I'm sure it is going to be a hit series' ― except I was wrong.
They had a nice material, indeed...
And the main character, Zoey?
Also, there are some characters that inspire this weird freak side that makes me feel nauseous.
Don't get me wrong, I absolutly love twisted characters and paranormal stuff is one of my favorite genre, but there's something wrong with the characters in that book, particularly ― they just sound like an unfinished work from a secondhand author.
Contrary to what others say about this series, I think they're quite good. Ok I will admit the first few books were a little slow and perhaps could have been condensed a bit, but this series is getting better. I gotta say I like the informal vibe of these books and the fact that they stand out in their own way. I'm liking this world more and more as I read along!
She's beautiful, she's unique, she's almighty and powerful; she's basically a giant pain in the ass and annoying as hell.Despite that, the series is beginning to unfold in a most interesting way as the stakes get higher.
Sure Erik's character was ruined, but Heath was just as puppy dog-ish as ever and Stark managed to keep his cockiness despite the case of Zoey-worship.
Kalona of course remained hot in all his twisted possible-evilness.Add the fact that the ending is easily the most powerful one so far, and the inevitable conclusion is that I will be purchasing book number seven.Aw, hell.
Your teacher isn't PC Cast of House of Night fame.Random Student 1: That would be the one.Brown Noser: Are you okay Ms. J?MJ: You've been taught by PC Cast, I thought it was only a myth in the YA world that she's a teacher.Brown Noser: Oh, no.
And after that let's talk about feminism.Brown Noser: We're supposed to watch movies in class.
What?Brown Noser: I was saying that....MJ: I heard you Nyx and Mary are NOT the same person.
Brown Noser: But Ms. Cast said.
Or for that matter watch South Park?Student Two: What's context clues?MJ: Haven't you learned anything about writing?Brown Noser: We learned a lot about writing.
NOTHING happen in 250 pages !
I can't explain my anoyed point so well in english so I going Spanish here..Qué mierda paso en este librooooo !!!!!????Es una real porqueria, Zoey ahora habla conmo una niña de 12 años de edad!
eso jamas me habia pasado con los anteriores, (bueno el último también me aburrio pero no TANTO)No no, este libro es un chiste!
una verdadera decepción que los autores hayan caido en esta mediocridad....El próximo probablemnte lo leeré si alguien lo compra y me lo presta o me conformare con una reseña sobre lo q paso, porque este me dejo de MUY mal humor.
I can't remember much about this book because reading it felt like sitting in the middle of a lake, treading water, but I feel the need to mention the ever racist Kramisha.
I feel like their characters have deteriorated over the series.
Does no one else feel like the whole Twin's thing was just a way to keep from having to form two different characters?There is so much more wrong, but I need to stop before I get angry, but there is a lot more I can't stand about this book.
It came up with Stark and Zoey in Hunted, Kalona and Zoey later in this book, and even Stevie Rae and her immortal bad boy – this idea that it’s somehow these women’s mystical duty to reform these guys, who are, for some convoluted reason or another, totally not responsible for their actions.
If they just spend the first part of the book rehashing how the last one ended, fill the middle with useless and frankly inane teen hand wringing, they can end with one plot advancement that will make their readers pick up the next in the series.I felt like I was reading a Dan Brown novel for tweens where nothing really happens and all the symbols and plot themes are gleaned off of other writers or historical events.
Yup. Then we go into the middle third where this main vampire has lusty dreams about the fallen immortal because it turns out in a previous life whe was his consort.
Because that’s how it’s framed now – Becca is a terrible, weak, awful person because she’s not making the Right Choice.We have zero sympathy for the rape victim, have demonised her and are outright blaming her for her victimisation (for making a bad choice!) while Stark is now firmly on team good guy.
And while we at it, let’s add extra awful of how the Raven Mockers are evil because they’re products of rape.While we’re at it, let’s look at some of the people on the various bad guy teams:Kalona – who we spend most of the book with Zoey umming and awwwing because she wants him to be redeemed as well!
At this point in the series Zoey is more confused then ever.
She's done what's expected of her and still the world demands more!
After everything that's happened she and the cast head back to the lovely House of Night to try to regroup and check up on things.
Kalona has other plans.
The council has other plans.
Everyone has other plans.
Poor Zoey is just stuck following the flow of Aphrodite's visions and Kalona's night time visits and trying to piece together what she needs to do.
(And I have to say, if it weren't for the strangely likeable country bumpkin that is Stevie Rae, I might not have been able to get through this way-too-long yarn.)Seriously, I have never entertained more homicidal thoughts about a fictional character than I did while reading Zoey's thoughts about her unnecessarily complex and idiotic existence.I mean, the majority of her problems are easily solvable if she actually LISTENED TO PEOPLE, and stopped dithering.It's a shame really, since I actually used to kind of like her.
Also ironic considering what happens in this book.Anyways, now that Zoey and Erik are temporarily on a break (Erik was being a normal man and Zoey dumped him for it), she has officially made Stark her Warrior and Heath her Consort, aka have her cake and eat it too.
There's a scene where Heath is trying to comfort Aphrodite about human-imprint-things, and Zoey feels *left out* so she goes and cuddles up to Stark.Here's my bottom line: I wish Zoey was more independent.
There I said it.Kalona continues to haunt Zoey in her dreams, thus revealing his interesting past being the sworn Warrior of Nyx. He goes on to explain to Zoey why he fell, and she glimpses some good beneath the tough exterior.
I am not sure if it is because I have read so many significantly better books in between the time I read the fifth and the sixth or if the quality of writing has just decreased that drastically, but the sixth House of Night was a complete disappointment.
You would think an experience like that would bring more maturity and depth to the characters; however Zoey is more immature than ever in this story.In addition, dialogue should be some of the most interesting parts of a book, not something that is so juvenile that you have to really force yourself to not just skip over it.
The book starts off with Zoey and her many many men.
He is struggling to deal with all the men that Zoey is freaking in love with and he is made out to be the @sshat?!
Spoiler Alert ...Cast killed off the only character I really liked!I would have given this only 1 star rating, but I did push myself to finish it.Plus side : Finally finally finally there is no long winded recap of the previous books!Stars Breakdown: Plot 2 Cover 3 Writing 1 Originality 4 Characters 2 Romance/Chemistry 3 Good enough to pick up again 1
I loved this book!
I love Aphridite and Darius, they're prefect for each other.
I understand Zoey's delema, but her loving Kalona is really upseting Stark which I'm not okay with so she really needs to snap out of it.
I'm not sure how I feel about all the third person point of views but I know that I like it better from Zoey's, even though getting to hear from Aphridite was nice.
One of Zoey's parts were told from Zoey's thrid person point of view instead of her first person like the rest also.
Zoey always feels tempted when Kalona is around for she was the reincarnation of a woman made specifically to love him.
Just like Zoey and Stark, Stevie Rae, Zoey's best friend also had an unusual beginning of a great forbidden love story!
But again, Zoey and Stark's love story is the best among the rest!
Conclusion:  Over all, Tempted by P.C. Cast and Kristin Cast is a truly amazing sixth installment for the  House of Night  series that'll surely leave every reader breathless and this feeling that'll make that particular reader to find time to read for the seventh book.
I guess I understand that this book was about her being "tempted" and all and that's why it centered on the things it did so much, but I feel like so much more could have been added.
I hate what happens at the end, but I understand that sometimes things simply have to happen.Despite whatever I just wrote, I did like the book.
It was nice to see the stuff going on with Stevie Rae that she was keeping from Zoey and other things that happened with various characters, but sometimes I felt like it was off point.
This particular book is a filler, dragged on to produce more sensational books within the series.
Last book left us in chaos and in the depths of Zoey's Bermuda love triangle.
2. Good riddance Erik.
3. Stevie Rae with all her hidden secrets, but still a good person deep down.
5. Kalona, good?
needs love?
5. Hey, at least Zoey's boys issues are down in count.Also a new one for me, never read an author changing their writing style in the middle of a series to the dialogue of each character's perspective.
Nonetheless, an addictive series...
I feel in love with this series after book 2.
But sadly at book 5 I started to find it a bit boring, not as much intrigue, and book 6 Tempted is no different.
I'm starting to think this series may be a little to young for me.
I love me some YA but not when it feels this childish.
But at the end the twists with Stevie Rae, Zoe and Heath pulled me back in a bit and got me thinking I got this far with the series I really should try to stick it out and maybe I will find that spark again that drew me to The House of Night Series.
