https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/863599.Remembrance_of_Things_Past
That's me applauding the finish of my year (14 months actually) reading Proust.
But I do have a far greater appreciation of Proust and the written word in general as a way of understanding my place in life.
I plan to revisit Proust in 2020 -- every ten years will give me a chance to absorb, visit other sources of info and read a more modern translation!
If all goes well I could get through Proust another two or three times.
And if I feel like reading it in 2050 at the age of 101 I'll go for it then too.
The way that Proust is able to combine music (the mystery phrase that represents his love for Odette), famous art, nature, memories of taste and sound and writing is truly incredible.
It should also be noted that I am currently reading A Moveable Feast by Hemingway.
Hemingway is an American writer, boxer, gambler, and he is struggling to make enough money to afford regular meals.
His writing is completely stripped down compared to Proust, and he even mentions his distrust of adjectives.
I'm nearly finished with the Hemingway and I am anxious to finish and read another.
And, believe it or not, though he doesn't have the high pop (i.e. people who know the name Proust, but haven't read him) reputation of being funny, he can be, quite, quite so.
But yes his high pop rep as "long winded" is, if not deserved, understable.
Though, from memory, that was more in Volume I, than II) Proust may be long winded, but if you want to be a serious reader, or writer, challenge yourself, and follow where the breeze takes you.
Perpetually unfinished.
I never thought I would ever read this. It's so long. It would never have happened if it were not for Neville Jason's incredible reading of this on the download version that's available on Overdrive...with music! So I downloaded it to an iPad. Not my iPad, I can't afford one, but one I checked out from the Glendale California Public Library. The entire experience was beautiful and memorable. I had previously read Swann's Way so I thought I would like it the complete set of books.Ah, do they listening to this work. You ight find it the best way.
* 1000 novels everyone must read: the definitive list: Family and SelfSelected by the Guardian's Review team and a panel of expert judges, this list includes only novels – no memoirs, no short stories, no long poems – from any decade and in any language. Originally published in thematic supplements – love, crime, comedy, family and self, state of the nation, science fiction and fantasy, war and travel – they appear here for the first time.
3000 pages of French reality soap opera
Demanding read but very rewarding.
450
Dull. Never could finish.
