https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52415.The_Fifth_Woman
It took a long time for the victim to die, and it seems apparent that someone was really angry with him.Wallander and his team begin the investigation, but there are precious few clues to point them in the direction of the killer.
This is especially scary, because serial killers are very rare in Sweden.Nothing seems to link the victims, and Wallander and his team are pressed to the limit.
The killer has a long list of potential victims, and Wallander will be sorely tested if he and his team are going to save them.
I wonder if Mankell realizes it?" And then a couple of chapters later it came clear that Mankell did realize what was happening to his Ystad Detective because those closest to Wallander comment on his fondness for lecturing everyone around him about the ills of Sweden and his philosophy of police work.
Both the mystery and the emotional core of Kurt Wallander were too distant from Mankell's book.
Kurt, in the book, begins to resolve his relationship with his father, taking a week long vacation with his father in Rome, so when his father passes away there is no deep pool of despair for Kurt to dive into.
(I am reading them in order, which isn't necessary since Mankell provides very efficient, two sentence recaps that give the reader all she needs to know to carry on.)With the first 40 pages I thought that this one - The Fifth Woman - just might be the novel that unhooks me from this Swedish crime novel addiction.
Often, like in this book, the reader knows who the killer is from the get-go, perhaps not the full story of who and why and all that, which one might suspect would suck all the suspense out of a book - but no - it's almost better since as the investigation gets closer and closer, the reader can't help but tear through the pages to reach the end.
اصلا خوشم نیومدخیلی کش می داد الکیمثلا والندر شب خوابیدوالندر صبح بعد بیدار شدوالندر فلان صبحونه را خوردوالندر رفت اداره...و همین طور تا آخر که دوباره می خوابیدبعدم اینکه آدم از قاتل اصلا بدش نمی اومدتشویقشم میکردو اصلا دوست نداشت دستگیر شهاصلا کتاب خوبی نبودبه هیچ کس توصیه نمی شود
Οπως παντα αψογος ο καλυτερος για μενα συγγραφεας αστυνομικης λογοτεχνιας ...
Βάναυσοι άντρες λοιπόν και κακοποιημένες, εξαφανισμένες ή πιθανώς δολοφονημένες γυναίκες, όπως αναφέρεται στο βιβλίο.
Και ένα βήμα πιο πίσω, μια σκιά που παρακολουθεί την πορεία αυτών των γυναικών.
Μια σκιά που ίσως ανήκει σε μια γυναίκα.
Μια γυναίκα που φαίνεται να έχει τεράστια σωματική ρώμη και μακάβρια φαντασία.
Μια γυναίκα τιμωρό!Διαβάζεται απνευστί και η αφήγηση κυλάει σαν γάργαρο νεράκι.
Σασπένς και δράση υπάρχει σε όλη την διάρκεια της αφήγησης που το κάνει ακαταμάχητο.
Επίσης οι αναφορές του πόλεμο στο Βελγικό Κονγκό το 1953, αλλά και την δημιουργία πολιτοφυλακής στην σημερινή Σουηδία κ τις αναταραχές που δημιούργησε είναι πάρα πολύ ενδιαφέρουσες.
These hold depth of characters, especially Wallander and his workmates.
Neither.Yet I find all of these overlong with the Swedish disaffection and superfluous information of placings and situations for procedure.
My own opinion only- but I think these Wallander make much better film pieces than they make book reads.
Kenneth Branagh in the last episode of Season 4 was one of the best acted scenarios I've ever seen.
Maybe because I've seen so many friends' reactions to their own dementia?
It was powerful.Having so many books piling up, I think I'll only try the short story Wallander collection, not the full boat novels.
This proves to be a turning point in the daughter's life.The following chapters tell the reader about a series of brutal murders that take place in and around Ystad.
When the murderer escapes from the station, Wallander takes a wild guess about where the murderer might go and it turns out to be true and that is another weak point in the book.
Mankell not only focuses on the plot of the book, but cares to touch about other social issues.
This particularly touched my heart because I am a working mother myself.This book is the tenth in the Wallander series.
Uh. kako ovo oceniti?Od prethodnih bolja, a opet nije za četiri zvezdice. Krajnje je vreme da GR uvede pola zvezdice za ocenu.
It is definitely a page turner but not as good as previous Wallender novels.
The seemingly endless philosophizing about the ills of Swedish society and how everything is expensive could have been omitted.
I did like how he said Swedish society was failing because no one could darn socks and then he is sitting beside someone on a plane darning a sock.
The plot of a serial killing woman is good and the suspense kept up throughout.
It is a bit to tidy ending with the murderer.
The best bits are the police procedures and the gritty awful Swedish weather helps give atmosphere to the whole story.

I love Kenneth Branagh.
When I found out he was going to be in PBS's Wallander series.
Until I saw the series.
In fact, I only watched the first one and had no desire to pick up the books.
Then, I watched the Swedish version of Wallander.
Those were good.
Those made me want to pick up the books.
Branagh was totally miscast.
It's like John Hannah playing Rebus.
He's a good actor, but he's wrong for Rebus.
Whoever the Swedish guy playing Wallander is, he's wonderful.Mankell's prose reminds very much of P.
Wallander is a world weary soul.
In this the 6th book of the Wallander series, our hero has just returned to Ystad from Rome with his ailing father as the story opens, and it seems he is just in time to get to work on an incredibly brutal crime.
While Wallander's style is to thoroughly examine every aspect of these crimes, there is a move afoot among some of the public to form a citizens' militia, making the job of the police even harder and putting them under a great deal of pressure to catch the murderer.
But these are no ordinary crimes and their perpetrator no ordinary murderer -- and Wallander and his team have their work cut out for them.
Uma personagem de que, tal como me acontece com algumas pessoas, não gostei quando o "conheci", mas ao qual me fui afeiçoando ao longo de seis livros, onde ele se revelou um homem culto, sensível, humano, ...(gosto de homens que choram...).Gostei da intriga, dos crimes, das vítimas, do criminoso e dos seus motivos para matar...O início do livro é muito bonito.
E lá em cima, no alto, um completo céu que se vai embora?Não gostei do arrastar na resolução do caso; demasiadas reuniões para o meu gosto...No princípio pensei que, finalmente, iria dar as cinco estrelas a um livro da série Wallander, mas vou guardá-las para "Um Passo Atrás".
At times, I grew impatient at the length of the book, but I think it paid off in successful, complex characterizations of victims, villains, and detectives.
The author has a gift for letting the reader see tenuous connections between the very sparse clues develop precisely as they develop for Detective Wallender and his team.
Thinking back over the novel, I realize that I never put anything together before Wallender did, and found myself applauding his superb analytical skills over and over.
I think I'm trying to say that the author does not manipulate the reader but rather takes us along for the ride.And the setting is important too.
Those who watch Wallender may have discovered all this, but this is my first experience.
Wonderful, sad, thoughtful book, a mystery in which all but the culprit's name is clear early on; solving the mystery means Wallender delves deeper and deeper into human motivation and bitterness.
We watch him patiently sift through facts, weigh remembered conversations, think about centuries of human history, ponder the nature of evil and hurt, till he comes to a solution that leaves one more numb than satisfied.
I have never been to Sweden, but the western society reflected here bears little resemblance to America, making it possible to draw conclusions about civilization in both great nations.
The best Wallander mystery, IMO!
Many very short, repetitive sentences fill paragraph after paragraph in a perplexing narrative style.
Perplexing because it was intrusive, becoming a separate mystery in my mind -- i.e. Is this a different translator than was responsible for the other Mankell books I read?
A competent, academic translator, able to move the work from Swedish to English in a correct way, but lacking the green-shoots spark of creative life that seemed to be missing?The story itself is good; complex, surprising, current.
The shooting at the end did not fit the "seriousness" of the story to me.
It may work fine elsewhere, but was unnecessarily contrived for this book.
these stories just seem to get better. wallander is a fine detective, a concerned partner and a human like all of the rest of us. the murderer in this tale was a bit of a surprise...
Quotations and page numbers refer to the Vintage paperback, English translation by Steven T Murray, which reads very well.Here, Kurt Wallander is musing on what he sees as a decline.‘The Sweden that was his, the country he had grown up in, that was built after the war, was not as solid as they had thought.
Only when you dared accept this truth could you hope to turn society in another direction.’ (page 228)The statement that every violent act has a meaning for the person who commits is contentious.
The next day Sweden's former Minister of Justice has been axed to death and scalped in a murder that has the obvious markings of a demented serial killer… four nuns and an unidentified fifth woman are found with their throats slit in an Algerian convent, while in Sweden, a birdwatcher is skewered to death in a pit of carefully sharpened bamboo poles… a Swedish housewife is murdered execution-style in a string of events that uncovers a plot to assassinate Nelson Mandela involving the South African secret service and a ruthless ex-KGB agent… an old acquaintance of Wallander’s, a solicitor, who is tied to an enigmatic business tycoon hiding behind an entourage of brusque secretaries and tight security, turns up dead, shot three times after his father dies in a traffic accident (or was it an accident?).
Gut mit ausgezeichnet geschriebenem EndeEndlich schafft es Mankell einem Roman ein Ende zu geben, das nicht der große Showdown ist.
Mit diesem Buch setzt er neue Maßstabe für die Beurteilung.Wie bei fast allen Werken der Wallanderreihe üblich ist der Aufbau des Romans dergestalt, dass man die ganze Zeit über sowohl den Protagonisten als auch den Antagonisten verfolgt.
Zum Ende hin wird es doch noch ein Wettlauf um das eine oder andere Leben - und doch ist es nicht der große Showdown.
Ganz im Gegenteil, Mankell schuf ein Ende wie es sich dieses Buch verdient.
I'm surprised I've only read two books in Henning Mankell's Wallander series.
Anyway I enjoyed The Fifth Woman the fifth book very much.Wallander has returned from a vacation in Rome with his father, a chance for them to rekindle their relationship.
Other murders occur over the course of the story and as well, Wallander must deal with the death of his father.
But it is also so well written that it seems to move along at a nice pace belying its length.All in all, I enjoyed very much and I hope I won't take so much time to get on with the next story.
The killer becomes infuriated at their failure to imagine a woman killing men and sends them a clue.
The men sow the seeds of their own destruction; more modern women are less likely to let them go unpunished.A subtheme is how the Ystad police force has come to embrace their first female detective, but fail to understand her life among them.
Wallender is increasingly dependent on her as a crime-solving partner and comes to understand at last, how much more complicated her life is as the mother of two small children and the wife of a highly skilled engineer who spends most of his time on oil rigs around the world.
Eh. Kind of tedious, is how I would describe this book.
The lead detective character, Wallander, was hard to like: at times obnoxious and bullying, and then whiny and sullen at other times.
Also, the editing wasn't that great (for example, a couple times they misspelled Wallender as "Walland"), and it makes me think that the translation might not be that great either.
As I get farther into this series ('The Fifth Woman' is the sixth book), I find the serial killers more and more unlikely and harder to see as actual characters.
It's as if Mankell created them as progressively challenging exercises in motivation and execution and stopped working on them as people.
That's not to say Mankell is not creative and clever (and shocking) in limning those motivations and executions, but I like more realistic villains (as in 'The White Lioness').
It's not giving away too much to note that even the serial killer's a woman in this one.
:)This novel begins when a woman receives a letter stating that her mother has been murdered along with four nuns in an African convent - the crime has been hidden so that no one know about it.
The reader knows information about the killer early in the book that the police don't know - we also get to follow the killers thoughts and plans.
It is interesting to observe the police following the clues in order to reach the understanding as the reader has from knowing the killers thoughts.
I enjoyed this book very much, even though know who the killer is pretty much from the beginning...
I would have wanted to know why Katarina Taxell spent more than 2 weeks in the maternity ward at the hospital.
Again, this is very important for the investigation, as she is the key to find the killer, but we are left without knowing why she was there and the killer had to go to visit her in hospital.
(hide spoiler)]After all that, I still think it's a very entertaining book and I look forward to the rest of the series.
Um dos melhores policiais de Wallander, o meditabundo comissário de Ystad, que devorei em poucos dias. A acção passa-se em 1994, quando uma série de homicídios, todos de homens, são perpetrados de uma forma particularmente violenta e cruel. Infelizmente, e como aconteceu nos anteriores romances, este livro tem uma péssima tradução e revisão, tão má que confunde, muitas vezes, a leitura.
non so se i gialli svedesi equivalgano, nella futile vita di un lettore, a una pervesione. Quando arriverò a quelli islandesi andrò in analisi.
