https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/428945.In_Parenthesis
It is effectively a prose poem, using both mediums following Private John Ball (In this work there are many layers of meaning, John Ball was a Lollard priest and one of the leaders of the Peasant’s Revolt) over a period of seven months from England to France and finally to the Battle of the Somme, more specifically Mametz Wood.
The most interesting critical account I came across was written by Joseph Cohen in a magazine called Poetry Wales where he makes use of the term simultaneity (simultaneous action) to describe Jones’s work.
Sometimes this happens halfway through a sentence, as for instance when he comes across an artillery crew:Night-lines twinkle above the glistening vegetable damp: men standing illusive in the dark light about some systemed task, transilient, regularly spaced, at kept intervals, their feet firm stanced apart, their upper bodies to and fro…slid through live, kindly fingerscylindrical shiningdeath canisteringthe dark convenient dump, momentarily piling.These techniques are used gradually to build up layer after layer of allusion on to the basic story of Private John Ball's part in the assault on Mametz Wood, during the First Battle of the Somme.
For a better look at his approach, consider the following passage, where John Ball's unit first sees the entrance to the front-line trenches, lit up by a sudden flare:This gate of Mars armipotente, the grisly place, like flat painted scene in top-lights' crude disclosing.
In the poem the objects in question are the men themselves, who are now part of the sacrificial community, "And you too are assimilated, you too are of this people." They are to be offered, not just to the Enemy but also to the trench rats: "You can hear his carrying parties rustle our corruptions through the night weeds - contest the choicest morsels in his tiny conduits, bead-eyed feast on us; by a rule of his nature, at the night-feast on the broken of us."The central mystery of the Mass is the Consecration, the divinely authorised human action through which the eternal enters into time.
Whilst I felt that I should be able to appreciate this as a piece of literary art, unfortunately I found ‘In Parenthesis’ densely written, almost impenetrable, occasionally verging on the incomprehensible, wilfully obscure and ultimately difficult to understand.There are endless notes accompanying this piece, which if read along with the main text would I think prove a constant distraction from the main piece – why so many?
Why so necessary?Written almost as a stream of consciousness, I found this hugely confusing – even when one is not expecting or wanting a traditional, straightforward, linear narrative.Again, this I imagine is a piece that benefits greatly from extensive study and analysis – unfortunately, I for one do not generally appreciate literary works that require studying – especially even if only to be understood.
But as deeply felt and real for all the experiment.I could appreciate the beauty, the wonder of this soldier:The terrain of bivouac was dark wrapt; the moon was in her most diminished quarter.Yet I struggled with the bulk of it, appreciating its importance as both a testament and a song, while not following the allusions and the dialect enough, and not caring enough to research what was flying past.Ah, but they were bovine lunar tricks he played.
There are no crowds to cheer them on their way to France because "it was late in the second year", December 1915 and already the war has gone on too long.In common with the Waste Land it is studded with footnotes in which Jones explains some of the military terms, his use of cockney rhyming slang, and the poems which influenced his writing including Y Gododdin and in part 3 The Ancient Mariner.
In the 1961 preface T.S.Elliot compares Jones with himself, Ezra Pound and James Joyce, high praise indeed.As a historian I have used poetry and prose other than the primary sources to convey the feeling of men at war when one explores their thinking, the feeling of the ordinary soldier in the trenches.
It took Jones until 1937 to write and have published In Parenthesis as he struggled for the right words to convey their feelings of those times and the horror of battle.In Parenthesis, a wonderful mixture of poetry and prose published as a seven part book that has been described as one of the best Great War books ever published.
It's a rich combination of poetry and prose that makes heavy use of allusion to the Old Testament, Arthurian legend, Welsh folklore, Coleridge, Chaucer, and Norse myth and relate them all to the war.
However, it's Jones's rich attempt to use traditional elements of religion and literature to see the soldiers as representative of all the soldiers of history and to picture the war in a heroic, folk tradition sense that gives the book its weight.
Hallucinatory as the experience of the trenches must have been, this novel takes the reader deep into a world where time ceases to make sense, where forms warp and melt, where the self extends to the whole of perception.
Frontline itself is not an appropriate ord, as the perception stretches across No Man's Land, an action often symbolically introduced by horizontal lines, such as the barbed wire, and what appears to be pure experimentalism in the first pages becomes meaning itself.This is a unique novel, a novel that requires the reader to understand the unfamiliarity of life in the trenches and abandonment to its hallucinatory nature.
You see the words 'WWI' and 'poetry' together and the mind inevitably turns to Wilfred Owen, Siegfried Sassoon, Robert Graves, Isaac Rosenburg and so on.
Now, I very much enjoy this sort of WWI poetry, but a lot of people are unaware of this richer offering from the Welsh artist David Jones, which really challenges.
The work operates outside of the received clichés that had, before I read this, seemed inextricable from the WWI experience.
Not that there isn't beauty in that, but David Jones has taken the same subject matter and mastered it, rather than allow it to master him.
Send it down David.
I greatly approve of T.S. Eliot’s introduction, which states, ‘Those who read ‘In Parenthesis’ for the first time, need to know nothing more than this… Good commentaries can be very helpful: but to study even the best commentary on a work of literary art is likely to be a waste of time unless we have first read and been excited by the text commented on without understanding it’.
With the coming dark, ground-mist creeps back to regain the hollow places; across the the rare atmosphere you could hear foreign men cough, and stamp with foreign feet.
Eliot, in the book's Introduction, calls In Parenthesis a "work of genius." It may well be, but for the most part I found the book impenetrable.
Oh, in general I can follow the arc (which has some beautiful and profound poetic nuggets) of what's going on, but trying to cut through the dense Welsh trench lingo to get to the specific just wore me out.
In addition, I'm not totally sure I buy into the corresponding mythologies (Arthurian, Homeric, Catholic), at least not in the way Jones intended -- and Eliot followed.
I'm sure a few more readings could allow for this gaining another star, but I have little enthusiasm to do so.
But rather than maps and cities and accounts of historic military actions, Jones offers us a map of what it means to be human in the destruction that is trench warfare.
Filled with references to Welsh myth, Arthurian legend, poems of all sorts, and the Bible, the book radiates on every page.
Jones includes extensive notes for his literary references, as well as for some of the more obscure solider-language and typical objects from the war.
This is one of those books I expect to come back to, for nothing else than to bask in the beauty of the language and the craft involved in putting it together.
Even our protagonist, John Ball (this is whom I first thought of) is not realized in depth.On the other hand In Parenthesis is a work of surrealism or fantasy, because early British mythology and literature mixes into the trenches of 1916.
It reminds me of subsequent war novels that partake of fantasy and surrealism, like Tim O'Brien's Going After Cacciato and, to a lesser extent, Joseph Heller's Catch-22 and Thomas Pynchon's Gravity's Rainbow, but Jones creates an unusual and very moving interpretation of the British experience of WWI that seems almost unique.At the same time readers should know that this is a work of subtle and mysterious complexity.
The book is great.it tries to show just how ordinary war is to our species, in that it has many references to works of art; whether its painting or plays by the likes of shakespeare.The references proves to be a double edge sword though, because of it the book can seem a bit of a mess. i suppose thats what Jones did aim for, because war is messy.
Not modern as in contemporary, but that which is best represented in T.S. Eliot, characterized Pound, and to which Yeats adjusted.The work is classified as a poem, but is mostly prose, though it rises often into the cadences of poetry; the lines break off like waves and it lies waiting, like the sea.
What Jones does is to narrate along freely, then suddenly start juxtaposing, build into a rhythm of incantation and at that point deliver his poetic insight, which, Jones’ being Catholic, is sacramental.
Sacramental: when ordinary objects are suddenly caught up and set apart by becoming luminous in an otherworldly light that shines through with Christian meaning.
Now that I'm a grown man and know that I'm not tough, I go into such war books as I do read with full recognition that books of that sort leave long lasting bruises on my heart.
It doesn't just go for your emotions either, the way some war poets do, but just kind of lets things take their course: the horror of war is very much there, but it's also mixed with the general crankiness of being human, the sporadic joy of life, and the sometimes-medicinal possibility that it might all mean something.
It describes a small part of the war on the Western front in World War One seen from the point of view of the ordinary soldier.
The language ranges from soldiers' slang and swearing through sharp military commands and the jargon of warfare to the more poetic.
The overall effect is to give an archetypal feel to what is described.
I doubt whether even the most well-read reader will grasp all the detail of the allusions, but this does not matter - the effect still comes over.
Must admit when I ordered this from the library it was titled In Parenthesis: seinnyessit e gledyf ym penn mameu, was wondering if it was a welsh language edition.
Fortunately it was in english, my welsh consisting of Iechyd da, and a few place names in snowdonia.The copy I picked up contained a poppy pressed between the pages, which I've left inside, and I noticed that the last time it was out of the library was armistice day in 2009.As for the book, thought provoking with a mixture of poetry, prose and the authors welsh roots add to the story with stories and sayings.
Did flick through the notes as I find that fascinating, being 1/8 welsh.
Jones was an accomplished artist, poet and writer; history has overlooked him in favour of Graves, Sassoon and Owen.This book should be read by all who are interested in WW1 history, poetry and literature. Drawing on a variety of sources including Malory, Shakespeare and the Bible Jones renders an account of life as a private soldier (using, in part, the cockney demotic of the common soldier) taking the reader from basic training through trench life to an attack on German lines. I commend this book to you.
I can’t (and won’t) pretend that I understand all of this text, but I keep returning to it in order to try. I love the sharply defined domestic details of trench life that David Jones gives us, the weaving together of high and low register in the language and the SOUND! Have heard snippets of Jones reading it aloud and it genuinely gave me goose bumps. Would love to hear that recording in full. This text really ought to be more widely taught and read.
A fragmented epic of angular beauty. Naivete mixes with horror, the (homo)erotics of the battlefield surfacing only to be displaced by references to deliberately obscure & obscured mythology. An entirely personal book which must be the most mysterious & profound work of World War 1 literature - it is not for everyone but it is one of the great overlooked achievements of Modernist prose-poetry. Unrelenting in its depth with lines I still remember now, six years after finishing it.
Both sides are important of course, but this book is vital to our understanding of the 20th century.
Jones is one of the few writers to have learnt from Joyce's 'Ulysses' in a creative way, and he often displays (like Joyce did) a very fine ear for turns of speech and the different voices heard in the trenches.What it lacks in anger it makes up for in wisdom.
If the centenary events have lacked one dimension (so far), I think this may be it - but Jones knew it 100 years ago.A difficult read, but a good read, and I think, a great read.
(This) is itself the beginning of understanding." TS EliotDavid Jones book is an 180 + page prose/poem about the First World War. No it is not an easy read, but neither is Eliot's Waste Land or Dylan's song Desolation Row. But with all three we work at them, there is so much for us to take from each piece of work.
Already I understand more in part one of the prose/poem that I did first time around.A recommended read for all who love poetry, and particularly those who read the poets of the First Wold War.
An unusual poetic novel-esque war memoir kind of a book.
Although this doesn't sound any different to any other First World War book it is the style and construction that make it unique.
Using Welsh and English mythology, folk tales and songs, in a prose style that is at the same time poetry, David Jones has written probably one of the most unusual reminders of the period and the lives of the men who fought and died in the 1914-1918 war.
Quite simply a remarkable piece of work. I don't think I have read anything quite like it. A realistic and graphic depiction of the life of an ordinary soldier in the trenches in WWI in the form of a poem. Many of the allusions went straight over my head but the power and beauty of Jones' writing is outstanding. I don't really understand why more people aren't aware of this book. Definitely not an easy read but one I would highly recommend.
This is possibly one of the most stunning pieces on the Great War I have ever read. A moving & compassionate elegy to the lost generation blends poetry & prose seamlessly. Genuinely moving & profoundly sad.
The narrative follows John Ball, who is at times a third person character, at others the writer, and at others still the reader, as he marches with a cast of soldiers - Quilter, Aneirin Lewis, Bobby Saunders, Watcyn, Snell, Dai Greatcoat among them - into the terrifying crescendo of the final vortex.Jones falls beautifully on the shelf I reserve for the 3 Hs, who I always consider the Anglo-Saxon literary torchbearers, Hopkins, Heaney, and Hughes, not least because of his irresistible reliance on the scaffolding of kennings: thought-maze, sack-body, night-walkers, star-draught, dark-lit light-dark, slime-glisten, tree-skeletons, star-still, spell-sleepers, dixie-rim, bat-night-gloom, blue-burnished, brinded-back, night-negative, robber-fire, bayonet-brightness, stumble-stones, and these are just a few.
The former is heavily laced with Welsh mythology and legend/history (lots of Arthurian), other classic works (Aneid, The Song of Roland, Shakespeare, The Bible (Vulgate and King James), plus dashes of Chaucer, Coleridge, Blake and more; then Welsh slang, English slang, Cockney slang and soldier slang, all recounting Jones' service in the Royal Welsh Fussiliers and his experiences in the battle of the Somme.
I recommend taking a dekko at Wikipidea's articles on the book and on Jones if you are unfamiliar with the author or the work.
A tour-de-force. A masterful poem that requires a few readings to grasp, though it is possibly  impossible to understand. It is a book one intends to revisit periodically, unquestionably guaranteed to find new and haunting themes.
