https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34974310-the-last-black-unicorn
This is definitely worth reading. Haddish is incredibly funny, smart and observant. She has lived a hard life which makes her success all the more admirable and deserved. There are places where I wanted more depth. The book is short and reads fast, sometimes too fast. But the funny parts will bring you to tears. So will the painful parts. I am not a fan of books by comedians is all. They just don’t work as cohesive narratives.
Tiffany Haddish made me clutch my chest, crying from laughter, and only a few people can do that to me.
She is living, breathing proof that, yes, some people are born with talent, in her case the ability to make people laugh, but being born with talent doesn’t guarantee you success.You need to work hard to make it, and Tiffany Haddish certainly did and does.
Tiffany Haddish writes the way she speaks, kind of like I do, and that works extremely well because you can almost hear her voice in your head as you’re reading the book.So I could not stop reading.
Do not drink or eat anything while you do, because the threat of choking is REAL.So, this hilarious, witty, high-energy woman with an infectious smile was a large part of the reason I watched Girls Trip, second only to the desire to support this glorious comedy with an ensemble of super talented black women staring in a major motion picture (seriously, Golden Globes, how the hell did you snub this movie???)I’ll just come right out and say it: Girls Trip is the funniest movie I’ve ever seen.
I became a Haddish Fan Girl the first time I viewed the 5 -7 minute video clip of Haddish on the Jimmy Kimmel show doing her bit on Will and Jada Pinkett Smith and the swamp tour.
I rate the books I read on whether they were successful in their category and, in this instance, The Last Black Unicorn is a top-flight comedian memoir, and vastly better than readers have a right to expect from any celebrity memoir, generally.
As in, Haddish has perfected delivering her lines and bits so that she comes across like your favorite girlfriend, casually telling you one of the funniest stories you've ever heard, from the passenger seat of your car while you head to Target.
If you looked up the word Authentic on the internet, a giant picture of Tiffany Haddish should be next to it.A lot of people had never heard of Tiffany Haddish until her star making role in last years Girls Trip, but Tiffany has been on her grind for decades.
Tiffany is an overnight sensation that was 20 plus years in the making.
Had most people experienced even one of these things, it would have broken their spirit, but not Tiffany.
I don't think its possible to break Tiffany's spirit.
I love Tiffany Haddish and I love that she doesn't tone down personality for anyone.
There were quite a few recountings of very ugly things that occurred in Haddish's life, but were told in an overly light-hearted manner that came across unseemly and inappropriate.
The book detailed some of the obstacles that Haddish had to overcome prior to her current success.
There just seemed to be a lot of "shucking and jiving" for laughs and attention that plays into a LOT of stereotypes about black women.I'm very happy for her success.
I believe there is a need for more Black voices in Hollywood.
I'm glad that other people connected to her story as I believe more POC stories need to be told.
Tiffany Haddish is a funny person and a funny comedian, but this book was vastly disappointing.I listened to the audiobook, and I really expected a killer narration.
Every single other audiobook autobiography of an actor/comedian that I've ever listened to was flawlessly narrated.
I mean, it's their own words and they're actors, right?
I can't believe I have to say this in 2018, but imitating and mocking a handicapped person is not funny, and in audiobook form, it's excruciating to listen to.She is horrible to fat people and Jews, and it made me like her a whole hell of a lot less.
While this book had funny moments and made me respect Tiffany's journey, it tarnished my impression of her as a person.
I definitely recommend listening to The Last Black Unicorn by Tiffany Haddish.
Firstly she's hysterical and can definitely tell a joke and/or a story.
The only real complaints I had with The Last Black Unicorn is that the story is told very quickly and in broken up short stories.
It would have been nice if she had taken the time to go deeper on her thoughts about some of the things that had and have happened to her.
We speed from one story to the next and barely have time to digest it to the fullest.
I wouldn't bother getting the book the audio is excellent because it's read by Tiffany Haddish herself.
Run, don't walk to the audio version of this. The song!!!!!!!!!O-m-g!!!! How did I not know about Tiffany Haddish?! She is smoking hot!!! For the beginning, I wanted to give her an enormous hug -- by the end, I realized that she doesn't need anyone's hugs -- she does a-m-a-z-i-n-g on her own!"In my life, and I hope and yours, I want us to grow roses out of the poop."My absolute fave parts:a) The ending crescendo of how she's made tools of everything!!b) The song!!!!!!!!!❤ The entire book is gene

Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || Pinterest🌟 I read this for the Yule Bingo Challenge, for the category of Tonks: strong heroine. For more info on this challenge, click here. 🌟I knew I wanted to read this book the moment I watched her interview with Trevor Noah. She seemed like such a fun, wonderful, crazy person. I watched Girls Trip recently, you know, for "research," and in that movie, I feel like Tiffany Haddish is channeling a lot of her own self for that character.THE LAST BLA
🌟I knew I wanted to read this book the moment I watched her interview with Trevor Noah.
I watched Girls Trip recently, you know, for "research," and in that movie, I feel like Tiffany Haddish is channeling a lot of her own self for that character.THE LAST BLACK UNICORN is a celebrity memoir that actually lives up to the hype.
like this one!In Tiffany's memoir, she portrays her authentic self and talks in the book the way she talks in real life.
While reading the book, I could actually imagine her voice in my head.
Tiffany Haddish is someone I only found out about because one of my Facebook friends shared a video of her.
You bet your ass I am going to be looking up her backlist and watching everything this woman is in!First off, this book isn't super PC and I am convinced Tiffany is all kinds of crazy.
This woman has lived quite the life and I am sure she's going to keep living on even better throughout the years.
But everything in this book shows how Tiffany came to be herself and what an amazing woman she is.
I read this book because I love Tiffany Haddish, and I think she's hilarious, but this book is so disappointing.
A lot of this book just felt very superficial and shallow and she judges so many people based on their appearance.
So much of her narration is her talking about who she wants to fuck, and who she doesn't want to fuck, and a lot of other shallow things that I couldn't care less about.
Maybe I'm just being too sensitive but a lot of the stories in this book just rubbed me the wrong way and it's not cool.
So good it's not even funny.Well, actually, it is really, really funny.Listen to the audiobook if you can. I didn't know Tiffany Haddish's work before, but I try to listen to a variety of genres and this book had a great rating. I'm not surprised. This woman's story is inspiring and heartbreaking. She is hilarious and so, so real. 5 stars.
She's a stand-up comic, was on the television shows 'If Loving You is Wrong' and 'The Carmichael Show', and was featured in the film 'Keanu.' Haddish's breakout film was 'Girls Trip' (very funny) and she was named one of Time's 100 most influential people for 2018.*****Tiffany Haddish overcame a good deal to become the successful woman she is today.
Tiffany's father left when she was small and the man she calls 'the stepfather' was a philanderer 'who sucked', but her mother was devoted to him.
Titus's mother and grandmother called Tiffany in a fury: "What is wrong with you.
Tiffany Haddish is strong and has overcome many hard times in her life.
I typically adore her humor, even in all its brusqueness, and I did for the most part; however, the low point for me included her making fun of a man with whom she had a relationship who happened to have a physical disability that also impacted how he spoke.
That’s what they do, but making fun of someone who is different and cannot change it (which applies to many types of differences) is not something I will ever enjoy.
This was overall a worthwhile read, and I still love Tiffany.
I think Tiffany Haddish is hilarious and beautiful and wonderful; however, this book is terrible.This might not be a popular opinion, but I thought this book was disgusting.
Not just because she shits in a shoe (she does) but because as another reviewer noted, Haddish showed "such an in-depth level of ugliness and ignorance" that I couldn't make myself finish this one.Her descriptions of her encounters with a larger woman, a Jewish man, and a disabled co-worker were extremely offensive.
In the audio-version, Haddish used a VOICE when quoting Roscoe and pokes fun at his "little limp arm" for an entire chapter.
I was nervous that a Tiffany Haddish book wouldn't feel like Tiffany Haddish, but happily no one has tried to change her.
This book is so clearly 100% Tiffany, which is wise.
If you've seen her on screen you would know if there was any attempt to dress her up or change her voice.
What you get here is joy and pain, but always through Tiffany's lens.Note: there's one chapter mostly about a co-worker who may have cognitive disabilities or another type of neurodiversity and while Tiffany clearly views him positively some readers may find it problematic.
You may want to skip that chapter all together.
Awwwh...Hell Yeah..Tiffany!!!..This book was funny as shit!!.. IMO..get the audiobook..listening to her tell this story is priceless!!!
"Growing roses out of poop"Other than reading, I really love comedy.
I still watch old comedy specials of these guys and I laugh like it's my first time watching.(view spoiler)[Bernie Mac too!
Some of the newer ones like Jim Jefferies are solid too but we're not here for a list of my fave comedians (hide spoiler)]I digress.
But great comedians can be special.Tiffany Haddish is someone I've watched for years.
I know 2017 was her year after the movie Girls Trip (funny as fuck-highly recommended) But what surprised me more was her interview with The Breakfast Club last year: 
4 Stars!First off, I want to say that I love Tiffany Haddish.
She's a newer breakout star, so I didn't know much about her but this really shed some light into her past life and it was incredibly real and raw.This book starts out with Tiffany's family and jobs as she was growing up.
She didn't have the best life - her mom was (still kinda is) crazy and Tiffany never quite felt accepted in the family that she was in.
So if that's not your thing, well you probably don't like Tiffany Haddish in the first place hahaAt times this is laugh out loud funny.
I spent the whole time I listened to this audiobook thinking about how to explain why I didn't like it.
Haddish has a lot to say and quite a life story to tell, but it didn't work in a book format for me.
I've seen her tell most of the main anecdotes in the second half of the book, but her delivery on stage was markedly different, more engaging, and the bits tighter.
Content and delivery were choppy, and it felt like the bits (which, again, are great on stage!) were dragged out and diluted just to fill up the book.
I loved her honesty, resilience, intelligence and incredible sense of humor. She lost me in the section about Roscoe - that chapter wavers between gross objectification and gentle fun. It feels mean-spirited about someone who did nothing to deserve it (as opposed to her ex-husband who totally deserved it). But mostly I respect her for rising above the horrible stuff she had to deal with when she was younger, and reminding us that we are all works in progress. And yes, she is s VERY funny woman.
I would strongly suggest listening to the audio if you can – because her delivery is flawless AND there is a special SONG at the very end that will kill you dead.My issues with this book:About halfway through this book you will come to a chapter titled Roscoe the Handicapped Angel.
If Tiffany feels like she absolutely needs to tell this story, then she needs to do it in a more respectful way, without imitating someone’s hardship.
It seemed like this was Roscoe’s story to tell, not hers.
I like Tiffany Haddish – but I don’t think that she is as “woke” as I thought she would be.
I LOVE Tiffany Haddish.
So, I’m totally biased.I laughed so hard at this book but it also had a great heart to it.
Tiffany is a great storyteller so she could make a mundane story interesting and funny.
I really enjoyed this book and recommend it to everyone.I also found out that Tucker Max co-wrote the book and that’s is an interesting and perfect combo.
A guilty pleasure of mine is Tucker Max and I find him very funny.
There’s an original song performed by Tiffany Haddish at the end called “The Last Black Unicorn.” And it’s amazing.
I love Tiffany Haddish!
She seems like the kind of celebrity who would be very down to earth, and fun to be friends with.
And she's had a helluva life.
I identify with that in a big way.
The whole time I was reading it, it was like listening to her tell the stories.
She writes the way she talks.
I legitimately ordered this book immediately after watching her interview with Trevor Noah, and I'm so glad I did!
Even though I had to wait a whole month to get it because Amazon was sold out!
:D I highly recommend this book.
I think that the narrative style is ultimately what hurt this book and caused me to just give it 3 stars."The Last Black Unicorn" by Haddish goes into her childhood, her first and second marriage (to the same man), her relationships, and how she started to do comedy.
The book goes back and forth across the same periods of time, but then Haddish will jump back in order to tell another story.
This is why I think the memoir may have been better to just be told in a straight chronological fashion with Haddish going through her childhood to her stand up comedy career.
I discovered her watching the movie Girls Trip, that movie had me laughing so hard.
Back to the book, this book will make you laugh, cry and motivate you simultaneously.
I had no idea that she experienced so much turmoil at a young age.It is hard to pick out what chapter stood out the most,but if I had to pick it would be the chapter when she discovered comedy.
It was full of wit and sadness, it made you sympathize with her because she only wanted to make people laugh and feel accepted.
If you read one inspirational book this year, let it be this one.
Tiffany Haddish has achieved all of those kinds of successes (and I’m sure that it’s not even close to what is to come for her in the future).
But, Tiffany has experienced another kind of success that often goes unspoken.
That kind of inner strength, personal fortitude, and stubbornness to be happy against painful odds is as inspiring as it gets.
All I can say is, if you read one book this year looking for inspiration to change your life and your attitude toward it, let it be this one.
Tiffany Haddish was a real as real could get in her poignant memoir, "The Last Black Unicorn". Funny, inspiring, sad but Haddish was true to herself throughout her journey!“I became an “energy producer” at Bar Mitzvahs. Energy producer is what white suburban people call a “hype man.” I was basically the Flava Flav of Bar Mitzvahs.” 5+ rip-roaring memorable stars ***** excellent read!
I gave Tiffany Haddish's book 5 stars because I loved her realness about her life, struggles and trying to survive. This book had me laughing, mad, asking why and smiling. I hope that Tiffany life blooms into great success. She deserves it and so much more. Blessed!
