https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22674105-china-rich-girlfriend
Another fun, soapy trifle of a novel. I wish these books had just a bit more ambition. Mostly it's extravagant descriptions of extravagant wealth with a glimmer of plot loosely holding everything together. The absurdity of Crazy Rich Asians is dialed way up for this second book in the series. It's just beyond. But again, lots and lots of fun.
There was so much he could have done with the China setting: politics at play not just in upper society but Communist Party politics and how it affects the lives of China's upper crust, or address the tension between the Overseas Chinese and Mainlanders, or if he wants to be really superficial, what it means to be Weibo/Wechat famous vs just Instagram blogger famous.
And then there's the two other subplots, Astrid's marriage, and Kitty Pong's transformation, which were definitely more interesting story-wise, but which he also failed to fully develop.
And Astrid's love story with Charlie.
If you want to read about tabloid stuff, it is very entertaining.
Please tell me there is a third book! I need closure!!!
China Rich Girlfriend by Kevin Kwan is a 2015 Doubleday publication.Another outstanding installment in this wildly entertaining series!
As the story opens, a couple of years have passed since our initial introduction to these “Crazy Rich Asians”.
The story also prominently features Rachel’s father, his wife, and their son, Carlton, who is recovering from a near fatal car accident.
I couldn’t wait to dive in to this second installment, but my excitement was slightly muted when I noticed several readers saying this one wasn’t as good as the first book.
But, it’s also a family drama/saga, packed with cultural duties and expectations, generational conflicts, alliances, love stories, and friendships.
I would still recommend them, and despite what this review seems like, I do actually enjoy them and will be reading the 3rd book.
She did have one fierce moment at the end, but just like in book 1, these two "main characters" don't really shine until the end.
Michael seemed to have a complete character change from book 1 just to drive Astrid's plot forward.
It just feels all over the place and perhaps I would enjoy this more if it had first person narration.As for what little plot there is, it felt contrived to me.
Although this starts out by centering on Nick and Rachel, the story soon diverges to include Rachel’s extended family and friends in China.
As such, we don’t see much of Nicks family, who I fell so in love with in the previous novel.
In particular, I loved the slow developing relationship between Astrid, the one relative of Nick’s we do follow, Charlie and Astrid’s deteriorating marriage to Michael.
This felt much more of an exploratory novel, introducing China to the reader much in the same way that Singapore and Hong Kong is shown to use in the first book.
There is so much money that characters refer to people as having "400 million dollars AT MOST!" and pity them like they are second class peasants.
I hesitate to praise Kwan totally for these characters because sometimes I thought I liked these people because they were the only ones he spent any time with (other than Rachel or Nicholas, who, as mentioned, totally fail as main characters), before going back to talking about money some more.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestSo I actually really enjoyed CRAZY RICH ASIANS, but seeing as how this is my month of disappointing sequels, my expectations weren't too high for CHINA RICH GIRLFRIEND. Consistency may be key, and yet so many authors fail when it comes to penning that follow-up to a successful first book. Not so here! While I was a little apprehensive at the beginning of CHINA RICH, I ultimately ended up devouring the book with the same amount of enthusiasm
Rachel and Nicky are such a great couple and after the wicked cliffhanger of the first book, I needed closure about what was going to happen with their marriage, as well as with Nicky's relationship to his mother.CHINA RICH GIRLFRIEND takes off where CRAZY RICH ended.
I liked her character in the first book, so it was kind of hilarious seeing her waltz into the narrative again and break one social more after another in her attempt to be one of the "in" crowd.CHINA RICH GIRLFRIEND is a different story than CRAZY RICH ASIANS, which I think might be why some people are ambivalent about it.
The perfect vacation read.
It reads super quick, because you just eat it up.
More Rachel & Nick: #relationshipgoals they are the new Anna Faris & Chris Pratt since they are no longer together (who else is still sad about that?!)2.
And, the rest of her new family?3.
Astrid and Michael.
Astrid and Charlie.
Whose team is Astrid on…you will have to read to find out.5.
Our favorite crazy characters – and a whole slew of new ones – and the drama continuesI can’t wait to read Book #3: Rich People ProblemsHave you read the CRA series?
★★★★I think I liked this one better than the first and you've gotta admit that's rare for sequels. Laugh-out-loud funny, educational in an urban dictionary kind of way, tons of drama, romance, and even a little bit of suspense/mystery this time around. It was amazing! My favorite quote:“People are messy. Life gets messy. Things are not always going to work out perfectly just because you want them to.”
★★★★½I think I liked this one better than the first and you've gotta admit that's rare for sequels. Laugh-out-loud funny, educational in an urban dictionary kind of way, tons of drama, romance, and even a little bit of suspense/mystery this time around. It was amazing! My favorite quote:“People are messy. Life gets messy. Things are not always going to work out perfectly just because you want them to.”
Trigger warning: Poisoning, mention of car accident, mention of death and critical injuries, PTSD, cheating, child abuse, drugs, abusive marriages, and invading privacy via technology.Thoroughly enjoyed this sequel!
Rachel and Nick in China was a blast to read about.
However it was surprising the 180 when she actually meets Rachel.
Colette and Eleanor’s antics were amusing!
I didn’t particularly like Colette after her arc.
Wondering what’ll happen in Rich People Problem’s regarding her character.
Kitty’s character arc was beautifully done!
She really grew as a character.
I enjoyed that Astrid actually tried saving her marriage.
Overall I thoroughly enjoyed this installment!
Thanks to Goodreads and Knopf Doubleday for an advance reader copy of this book.Don't judge me, but I got a kick out of "Crazy Rich Asians" by Kevin Kwan and this is more of the same.
This would be a great beach read or escapist fare between weightier tomes.If you didn't read "Crazy Rich Asians," you don't necessarily need to read that first to enjoy this, although it does give the back-story on many of these characters.
It may seem overwhelming trying to keep the characters and their connections straight at first, but stick with it - you'll likely be hooked before you know it!
A fun and adventurous sequel.
4 stars, didn’t like it quite as much as the first one but still super solid.
It takes the characters of Crazy Rich Asians and puts them in situations that were even more enjoyable than before.
It's got everything a good book needs - love, hate, poison, and MEGA RICH DRAMA.
While I found some of Crazy Rich Asians to be slow and less interesting than others, China Rich Girlfriend was full of cliffhangers and moments that had me truly feeling for the characters.
Although you could begin with this book and still enjoy it, you'd get a lot more out of it by reading Crazy Rich Asians first.
Less enjoyable than the first, with not much of a plot, characters that serve as clothes hangers and pretty much the whole book being a tour of Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous in Modern China. There's a (desperate) attempt to inject some mystery at the end but it's hardly enough to save a plodding read. Only saving grace was a note written by an image consultant to a Chinese-born woman trying to hobnob with Hong Kong's elite.
SO MUCH FUN
The story is 'fun and game' and escapism with a lot description on good foods and expansive clothes.
The main characters, they aren't so bad actually but for most of the time they act and talk like what you usually see how rich people talk and behave in a gossip magazine---they are more of less all shallow and stereotyped.
Although I can appreciate Rachel Chu's half brother (the spoiled bad boy) isn't stereotyped into some irredeemable, hateful brat.
(view spoiler)[Still, it comes hardly as a surprise when the half-brother's rich girlfriend and Astrid's husband Micheal both turns out to be a bitch/an asshole.
I hadn't read Crazy Rich Asians and CRG stood on its own, e.g., I wasn't lacking any necessary background material and also didn't suffer through 20 pages of material designed to catch-up a new reader.
I learned more from this book, while having fun, than I have from most of the historical novels I convince myself are educational.
Ha!This novel reminded me of Who's Afraid of Bernadette?, a book club favorite of a couple of years ago that skewered the Seattle tech and social culture.
I'm sure that some readers might have the same reaction to China Rich Girlfriend, which applies a similar jaundiced observant eye to young Asian globetrotters and their families.
After seeing the "Crazy Rich Asians" movie, I got sucked back into the world of Singapore and had to know what happens next for Rachel Chu and Nick Young.
This book was so much fun!
It's five years later and Rachel & Nick are planning their wedding.
I giggled so many times as Corina gave her the list of things she needs to change.
The list of books was exhaustive, but so interesting!
Rachel is on the search for her father and the dynamic of the Young family is still in effect.
Looking forward to the next book!
I really enjoyed Crazy Rich Asians and was not disappointed in the sequel, China Rich Girlfriend.I may have even enjoyed it a tad more.It was fun visiting the old familiar characters and becoming acquainted with the new ones.This novel picks up a few years after the first continuing with the lifestyles of the rich and crazy keeping me enthralled to the very end.
Its been two years since Rachel and Nick went to Singapore on that disastrous trip to meet his family.
Its now time for Rachel to meet her family.
After her experiences with Nick's family, how bad could that be?This novel is the equivalent to those crazy, trendy milkshakes made with ice cream then topped with a brownie, a donut, a chocolate bar and finished off with chocolate drizzle: its excessive.
She thought she knew what she was in for, having lived a rather unpleasent experience with Nick's family, but Rachel is wrong.
i am utterly disappointed. how come the sequel of this book becomes so bad?? the first book is hilarious with all that sarcastic jokes about rich asian. the second book seems to forced. yes there is still that sarcastic jokes about how rich asian lives. but... i found it a bit offending. the character of rachel is just unbelievable annoying. she is this perfect girl that everyone loves. i hate her. can not stand her anymore. what a pity.
Me: How could this story get any crazier and over-the-top than the first one? Kevin Kwan: Hold my imported Tiger beer.
"Behind every fortune lies a great crime." Actually rating it half a star more than the first one! That never happens with me and sequels, how exciting! Maybe the last in the series will be a 5?!In this instalment of the Crazy Rich Asians series, main players that were batting for the original novel take a back seat and graciously allow other characters the spotlight; new characters were introduced and old ones developed enticingly. Kitty Pong, for example, was a shallow gold digger in the orig
Once again, in this great addition to the series, China Rich Girlfriend contains a sentimental storyline that is packed to overflowing with subplots that follow the latest romantic developments, cultivated friendships, humour, cultural obligations and of course the unapologetic gossiping amongst the most elite and exclusively wealthy of Asian society.I believe that the ethnic diversity this series brings to my usual reading scope is such a welcome change; this is the perfect variation read if you're bored of repetitiveness.
La introducción de tantos personajes coloridos, pero después de que acabar de conocer a todos los de la primera novela, hacia que a veces me confundía un poco y extrañaba a todas las tías y tíos de Nick y sus excentricidades.No voy a contar más de esta historia porque seria quitarle la magia y la excentricidad a esta trilogía, pero sin duda cada suceso fue espectacular como en la primera parte.Sabía cuando estaba en la página 100 que este libro era increíble.
Me cansó un poco la historia de Collete, pero como estoy enamorada de Charles Wu puedo leer mil innecesarias páginas para poder saber algo de él.- ¡¡¡Qué personaje!!! Es el mejor de todos.- Rachel y Nicholas están muy desdibujados en este libro.- Pero el objetivo de entretener lo cumple perfectamente.

*3.5
I was so excited to go back to Singapore with Young, T'Sien, Leung, and Cheng families. But I have to admit, this one fell a little short for me. I'm glad I read it and I will totally read the last in the series, but this book seemed all over the place, the story lines confusing (like WHY is this happening), and I felt like it was missing so many of those lovable characters from the first book.
