https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2582189-the-horror-at-red-hook
Yet the fears and prejudices first unleashed and expressed most explicitly here would become the source of the cosmic terror that distinguishes his best work.“The Horror at Red Hook”—the story of Irish police detective Malone and his investigation of aged eccentric Robert Suydam’s connection to a series of abductions and disappearances—was written at what was perhaps the lowest point in H.P. Lovecraft’s life.
And things soon got worse: wife Sonia left town for better business opportunities in Ohio, and H.P.--living on a small allowance from Sonia—was forced to settle for a single room in Brooklyn Heights, not far from the rowdy waterfront of Red Hook, where the sea of foreign faces Lovecraft had come to fear grew even deeper and darker.
The Horror at Red Hook by H.P. Lovecraft is an audio book I requested and the review is voluntary.
I did like the story, not as much as I did when I was a teen.
It was creepy now, I can't imagine then when they weren't shown realistic horror movies and shows daily like we are.
I thought the narration was very good and added to the story.
I forgot to add that in to my initial rating so I will add that now since this is a rating for the overall book.
As a teen I craved all things Lovecraft, maybe that is why I am so warped!
In a trial in the nameless and eldritch hereafter:Prosecutor: Did you write the Horror at Red Hook?Judge: You don't have to answer that question!Lovecraft: I'll answer the question.
You have the luxury of not knowing what I know, that pulp magazines, while tawdry, produces horror.
You need me writing horror.
We use words like "unspoken", "occult", "eldritch".
Either way, I don't give a damn what you think you are entitled to!Prosecutor: Did you write Horror at Red Hook?Lovecraft: I did the job that—-Prosecutor: Did you write Horror at Red Hook?!!Lovecraft: YOU'RE GODDAMN RIGHT I DID!!
I love the showing that goes on in this one!I also love that the setting, Red Hook, is a place where Lovecraft lived for a time and hated.
He regretted ever moving there and it seems like he put his emotions into crafting this horror story.For those who haven't read The Horror at Red Hook before, I won't bother summarizing as you can read the synopsis yourself, but I wouldn't suggest it.
Lovecraft's use of language is esoteric at times and that might ward off some readers.
You read enough words you don't understand and you lose the thread of the story.
This is arguably one of Lovecraft's most racist stories, born out of his increasing sense of isolation and negative impressions of immigrants while living in Brooklyn.
It was this antipathy towards others that gave birth to one of my favorite songs by The Mountain Goats (cf: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MrHgZR...
also: http://www.thejeffreylewissite.com/Mt...
When I finish my dissertation, I could probably write a book about the ancient authors who inspired Lovecraft's racial antipathies -- using almost all the same sources.Aside from all that, this is one of the most effective urban-horror stories H.P.L. ever wrote.
This looks to me like something Trump's parents would read to him on a regular basis as a bedtime story.
Be it true, it would explain a lot.This was weak, weak and terrible in so many ways and not scary at all.
(the age of little Donald when he heard this story for the first time).
Throwing immigrants, devil worshiping, tribal magic and New York architecture into one melting pot gave an effect that makes the reader cringe.
Not to mention other absurd ideas the reader is supposed to accept and clap along.
An embarrassing pile of racist xenophobic bullshit.P.S. Is Lilith = Sonia?
H.P. Lovecraft's influence on horror/weird fiction is undeniable. He had an amazing imagination. Too bad, because he was an absolutely awful writer and and an even worse human being. I would call this story racist shit, but that seems somewhat unfair to feces.
Maybe HPL doesn't have any African-American characters to rewrite.)Even the different groups of white folks here are all stereotypes, with the "Celt" being mystical and hysterical (kind of unusual for a police officer, maybe Lovecraft didn't ever talk to a cop just like he probably never talked to a non-white person).Anyway, the story.
Even leaving aside all the racist crap as probably mostly due to Lovecraft freaking out about his move to Brooklyn and being scared of the big city and its unfamiliar things.
Probably my least-liked Lovecraft so far.
This one hadn't been translated back then (I just checked and it was first published in Hungary in 1998) - you have one guess why.Lovecraft on diversity:"From this tangle of material and spiritual putrescence the blasphemies of an hundred dialects assail the sky.".....oookay.Yes, this story is as racist as people claim.
(It's also really ableist.) Many different races, cultures, ethnicities, religions get a brief mention; Hungarians might be especially interested in reading about the "hellish vestiges of old Turanian-Asiatic magic and fertility-cults".
It's some powerful reading.I think he would've found me repellent on at least four different counts explicitly mentioned in the story, and yet I felt an inordinate amount of fascinatorepulsed glee while reading.
This is one of the most disgustingly racist, bigoted, pieces of shit that I have read all year. The writing is a god-awful catastrophe of "smart" words that are used to veil the grossly offensive discrimination and disrespect that is shown towards people of color, poverty, and varying religious backgrounds. I sincerely hope the rest of Lovecraft's work isn't this type of ridiculousness because if it is, then I have no idea how someone like him could be so idolized in the literary world. Unacceptable.
NOPE. NOPE. If you don't want to be simultaneously bored & offended, then I suggest you avoid The Horror at Red Hook.
I read this mostly out of curiosity, because I had learned that some of Lovecraft's most unsavoury tendences were on full display here.The straight supernatural horror part is not exactly bad, even though it reads more as a vignette, or a description of a tableau, than a story.
The fact that this is not a first person narrative might contribute to that feeling.Other than that, "The Horror at Red Hook" reminds me somewhat of the blood libel, with orgies of devil worship and child sacrifice, except the Medieval Jews have been substituted with immigrants.
I think if he could have torched New York and wiped it clean of those he saw as inferior he would have.The Horror at Red Hook tells a story taking place in the 1920s with a New York police detective named Thomas Malone.
Malone is left disturbed by an incident that left several people dead.Lovecraft then works backwards telling how a rich and eccentric old man named Robert Suydam.
Suydam ends up buying property in Red Hook and people are disappearing.
Lovecraft doesn't include the Chulthu mythos at all.
It is short though and I finished in it about 25 minutes (nap included).
I liked how Lovecraft included the incubus and succubus monsters. Ive never read a story that actually included them!
What a New York police detective Thomas F.
Malone experienced, saw (or dreamed) while working on a case in Red Hook made him retire and avoid big buildings.During one of the raids in Red Hook, some of the buildings collapsed killing many policemen, smugglers.
It all connects back to an educated recluse and a folklore researcher Robert Suydam.
'Just at the time when a wave of kidnappings and disappearances spread its excitement over New York, the unkempt scholar embarked upon a metamorphosis as startling as it was absurd.' It was the case of Robert Suydam which brought Malone to Red Hook.
A great story, I thought!
Lovecraft uses his style of prose quite nicely in my opinion at the end and the storyline and frightful atmosphere are very well presented.
Even though the key basis for this story was xenophobia, I honestly don't feel that this marred it, as most do.
The racism adds something of vulgar touch to the horror in my opinion and Lovecraft can be excused for being human with faults like the rest of us :) Obviously, I'd rather he wasn't a racist, but there isn't much that I can do; he is dead, after all.
It was dark, and I was alone in the car, so of course I'm like "Let's listen to some Lovecraft!
Maybe the sound effects were a little distracting at times when they are louder than the reader, or in between sections where there's a loud building screech noise (typical in horror movies), but they do serve the purpose they were intended for.
I did enjoy the story here too, but think that I would likely have enjoyed it a bit more if it was a little bit more streamlined.
I thought it was a creepy little story and maybe there's hope yet for Lovecraft and I!
I will do a full review. I liked this story and understand that it is a an old short horror story. I did enjoy it tho and loved the narrator Jim Donaldson - I think his voice was perfect for this.
This novel is racist to a certain extent, but somehow its good."...and Malone could not help recalling that Kurdistan is the land of the Yezidis, last survivors of the Persian devil-worshippers." What ?!"Suddenly the leader of the visiting mariners, an Arab with a hatefully negroid mouth, pulled forth a dirty, crumpled paper and handed it to the captain" Double What?!The language is amazing  “In case of sudden or unexplained accident or death on my part, please deliver me or my body unquestioningly into the hands of the bearer and his associates.
Everything, for me, and perhaps for you, depends on absolute compliance.
I'm learning that I have a thing for phosphorescent horror. I can be completely ho-hum about a book and then suddenly "Ooooh, phosphorescence. This is fantastic!".
I see a lot of comments that shred this story as a racist diatribe.
This comment is in no way trying to make light of the racism that is found here in this story, it's just trying to put it into a sort of perspective.
P. Lovecraft was a racist.
He was a loner brought up by a doting mother, he never socialized except through letters and the occasional visits from other authors.
He was certainly, from what I've seen, anti-social.
If there had been an attempt by others to school him, I doubt he'd have taken the advice.That said, the man could write nightmare fiction.
Well.......that was......different.Lovecraft's xenophibia is probably more rife in this story than any of the others i've read.
The story mostly hinges around:"them pesky foreigners coming to 'our country' and taking our jobs and bringing their foreign ways and their different coloured skins and it's evil!
evil I tells ya"So don't say I didn't warn you.But if you're dead set on reading it - start halfway in and you'ill skip most of the racial slurs & get straight to the hairiness.
There were of course a couple of really creepy moments which I won't spoil here, but they did make the read worth the time.

This one exhibits all the same problems as much of Lovecraft's other works, with some particularly egregious racism on display. However, the descriptions of the rituals are pretty good. I keep hovering around a two and a half stars. I think I'm getting a bit of Lovecraft fatigue, and need to set the complete works aside for a bit.
Read this because I was about to start Victor LaValle's new book, which I understand to be in part a response to the racism in this book, which turns out to be extreme. I cannot recommend it except as a case study in how "everyday" racism and anti-immigrant bias permeate many classic texts.
1.5/5Vocabulary-obsessed, word-happy word-splurge. Terrible. Unfocused. Thank god it was only a short story. Verbose and tedious; I like the idea of Lovecraft's work more than I enjoy reading it. Maybe these are tales better HEARD, as in: cd books or audio versions. We'll see.1.5/5MH
Ugh, sound effects, DNF
Hm, I think I am starting to see quite the similarities between this one and a few of Lovecraft's other work. I did not like this one very much, I was frankly waiting for it to end.
It doesn't seem to be too popular of an opinion, but I actually really like this story. I get all the darker subtext and understand why people hate it. I'm not going to defend it or claim that Lovecraft was a product of his age and should get a pass for his xenophobia. Racism sucks, and it's too bad that it's such an impetus for Lovecraft's work. That being said, the underlying story itself I found extremely entertaining. Weird occult practices, child abductions, strange supernatural rituals...that stuff is fun.
Well it was ok...but I should preface this with A) I’m not a horror fan, and B) I didn’t think it was really scary or even suspenseful. I think I’m missing something essential to love these stories. Well off to read the re-interpretation and see if I enjoy that more.
