https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90585.Artificios
The Shape of the Sword“Whatsoever one man does, it is as though all men did it” - justification of the Fall and the Crucifixion.A man with a mysterious scar tells Borges how he acquired it, by way of “perplexing corridors and pointless antechambers”, ending with a paradoxical twist ((view spoiler)[”It was I?
(hide spoiler)] ).The Theme of the Traitor and the Hero 6*“The idea that history might have copied history is mind-boggling enough; that history should copy literature is inconceivable.”This is a brilliant story in which the narrator imagines a scenario where life is designed to imitate art (specifically Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar and Macbeth), using a huge cast, mostly unaware of their roles, for political ends.
A reader’s role, like that of a religious disciple, is to believe (even though Borges' reality constantly approaches unreality, and vice versa).The Eternity of the InstantBorges contrasts a man with a cat: 
Borges’ tales are successive in time, as are any stories that are constructed as narratives, but they somehow simultaneously approach "the eternity of the instant".
Borges’ play is only complete as it approaches the infinite time and distance of eternity, or as it makes us believe it has done so.Perfect Perception and MemoryThe story which had the greatest impact on me was "Funes, His Memory".It reminded me of a criminal law lecturer who taught my law student friends, when I was at university.
Look I mean it's Borges so it sort of goes without saying, the guy was on fire for his entire literary career and this volume is certainly no exception. Essential reading.
دو یا سه داستان که در هزارتوی ابدی جناب بورخس بارها آنها را میخوانیم
دو یا سه داستان که در هزارتوی ابدی‌ جناب بورخس بارها آن‌ها را می‌خوانیم
مثل اغلب کارهای بورخس ایده های تکان دهنده و هستی براندازی داشت که با نهایت خست در پرداخت و در نتیجه با هنرمندانه ترین ایجاز خواننده را (دست کم من خواننده را) شگفت زده میکند. گویا بناهای چند دهه جلوتر میدانسته که داستان باید برای آن که دقایقی خواننده را پای کتاب بنشاند با توییتر رقابت کند .
مثل اغلب کارهای بورخس ایده های تکان دهنده و هستی براندازی داشت که با نهایت خست در پرداخت و در نتیجه با هنرمندانه ترین ایجاز خواننده را (دست کم من خواننده را) شگفت زده می‌کند. گویا بناهای چند دهه جلوتر می‌دانسته که داستان باید برای آن که دقایقی خواننده را پای کتاب بنشاند با توییتر رقابت کند .
البته نه به اين معني كه داستان هاي مهم اعجاب انگيز نيستندداستان مهم چه داستانی است؟ داستان هايي كه در آن ها بورخس از يك نويسنده تبديل به يك پيشگو مي شود.
فونس شخصي است كه حافظه اي عجيب دارد به طوري كه مي تواند كل بيست و چهار ساعت از يك روز از زندگي اش را با تمام جزييات بازسازي كند.
اين كه هر كسي با دوربين موبايلش مي تواند تمام بيست و چهار ساعت از روز را فيلم برداري كند.دو داستان "معجزه پنهاني" و "آيين ققنوس" هم جز همين داستان هاي مهم هستند.
Read the English translation. In some ways I liked garden of forking paths more, but then the more I ponder over these stories I'm blown away by the philosophies of thought and spirituality and eternity that they exhibit. Probably easier stories in general compared to Garden...
Borgese puhul torkab silma eelkõige teksti tihedus. Teda tuleb lugeda aeglaselt, novell või kaks päevas, lastes loetul laagredada. Tihti on tema viieleheküljeline novell sündmuste ja mõteterohkem kui mõni pikk romaan. Vaimustav!
Not the most stunning of Borges work, but still better than most anybody else.
The South! The South! But also Three Versions of Judas
Borges. Vos.
قصه پردازى فوق العاده بورخس ولى متاسفانه با ترجمه اى بسيار ناموزون كه خواندن را سخت و خسته كننده ميكند و از زيبايى و لذت اثر بي بهره مان مى گذارد.
Eternity, fiction, spirituality. All these are some of my favourite words, wrapped in the labyrinth created by Borges.
Once again we have a great collection of short stories from Borges.
I read this book as part of the larger compendium Collect Fictions in English translated by Andrew Hurley.
There are some really great stories in this collection.
Those stories that stood out for me were "Funes, His Memory", "The Shape of the Sword", "The Theme of the Traitor and the Hero", "Death and the Compass", and the amazing "The Secret Miracle".
The reason for the loss of one star were the last 4 stories which had scattered moments of brilliance but lacked the overall plot cohesiveness and amazingness of the first 5 stories.
Overall a great read, and a must read for a Borges enthusiast.
There’s no denying that Jorge Luis Borges is an amazing writer and his erudition plays a big part in his stories. But much like other authors of the same calibre and intellect like Umberto Eco and Nabokov late in his life, his work seems to abound in references and allusions, some of which I caught and some I felt completely escaped me. And while it’s sad to not have the necessary reading background to comprehend it all at a glance, I think some more comprehensive notes on this edition would have rescued me from my inadequacies.
Y entonces llega Borges y lo enreda todo o mejor lo desenreda todo, deshace en un par de líneas cavilaciones y supuestos, Un hombre es todos los Hombres, Judas el redentor y por eso los nombres caminan siguiéndose los pasos hasta encontrar su propia muerte. Artificios, cuentos de esos que prometen encontrarte 20 años después con más fuerza.
I love Borges. I'll take whatever I can get my grubby mitts on.[edit 7/13/12]I read these stories in English. The stories are short but richly crafted and feel real, even though they are completely surreal.
El Milagro Secreto y El Fin los mejores relatos. Tres versiones de Judas y El Sur los siguen de cerca. La forma de la espada tal vez también. De nuevo, escribir sobre escritores es algo que no me termina de convencer.
I don't really know what I just read because my mind is completely blown. But Jesus that was good stuff.
plot twist
Read Portuguese translation.
El sur
In heaven, I will lie around eating bon bons and reading Borges short stories forever.
Se nota que en este libro se terminó de desarrollar y pasó de lo experimental a su estilo definitivo. Dejó atras el barroquismo que tenia de joven que como el mismo dijo, ponia una barrera entre lector y autor. Mi favorito : el milagro secreto.
Nice collection of earlier stories by Borges. Some very good.
Los cuentos de Borges están tan antologados que resulta fácil haber leído alguno o varios de los cuentos que componen este volumen.
Este hombre de memoria prodigiosa prefigura el horror más íntimo de Borges: La imposibilidad del olvido, y el monstruo que el recuerdo constante crea, pues cada evocación es al mismo tiempo una vida diferente.
Un recuerdo que de tanto reencarnar se vuelve grotesco.Borges veneraba la memoria pero, como suele suceder con aquello que más se atesora, también le temía.
Este cuento es una prueba de ello.De los otros cuentos El milagro secreto es también notable.
No tan conocido como el de Funes, pero de obligatoria lectura.
Una relectura siempre sorprendente. Fascinante. ¿Qué más se puede decir?"Tres versiones de Judas" sigue siendo mi favorito.
