https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/589482.The_Eternal_Moment_and_Other_Stories
"Beware of first-hand ideas!" exclaimed one of the most advanced of them.
"First-hand ideas do not really exist.
Do not learn anything about this subject of mine--the French Revolution.
Learn instead what I think that Enicharmon though Urizen thought Gutch thought Ho-Yung though Chi-Bo-Sing thought Lafcadio Hearn thought Carlyle thought Mirabeau said about the French Revolution.
You who listen to me are in a better position to judge about the French Revolution than I am.
Your descendants will be even in a better position than you, for they will learn what you think I think, and yet another intermediate will be added to the chain.
The individual stories within the collection are:"The Eternal Moment""The Machine Stops" (link here to my separate review)"The Point of It""Mr Andrews""Co-ordination""The Story of the Siren"E.
By the end the destination is reached, both physically, and in the sense of her inward revelations about herself.A common motif in Forster's works, is that of a long-remembered fleeting experience, which affects an individual's later life far more than could ever be expected at the time.
Forster's experience of the different religions he came across during his time in India, his interest in paganism, his fear that a deliberate exaggeration of imagination could undermine an individual's sense of reality; all these thoughts played into his explorations here, where he points out the dangers of a distorted perspective.
By the end the destination is reached, both physically, and in the sense of her inward revelations about herself.A common motif in Forster's works, is that of a long-remembered fleeting experience, which affects an individual's later life far more than could ever be expected at the time.
The central character, Miss Raby, is a successful novelist, yet feels unsatisfied in her emotional life, and distanced from all her social peers.
Miss Raby has constantly reflected on this special moment, building into it great significance for her own life experience.
The custom had become obsolete, owing to the Machine.Forster should have stopped at "…let her fall," and allowed the reader to infer the rest.
Instead, he hammers away, here and elsewhere in the story, as if the light touch he displays in his novels has abandoned him here.He's back on his game with "The Eternal Moment," writing about an elderly novelist visiting an Italian village made famous by her first, most successful novel, documenting her increasing dismay at the changes she inadvertently wrought there, particularly in the case of a man who had once worked for her as a porter.
reviews from the mid-90s when i was on a serious SF-canon reading tear (and, apparently, averse to capital letters).++++++++++++++++++++According to a very brief introduction, this volume—along with Celestial Omnibus—encompasses "all that (Forster is) likely to accomplish in a particular line." i initially assumed that the "particular line" meant fantastical fiction, but after reading the title story, i'm guessing more like stories concerned mainly and overtly with the definition of what it means to be human.
The lead story "The Machine Stops" is OK, but Forster is totally out of his element; he is no H.
The middle stories are OK, but strike me as minor.Ah, but "The Eternal Moment." This is E.
The setting -- upper-class English people travelling in Switzerland (Baedeker in hand) -- is his forte.
The story deals with relations between upper-class English and lower-class Italians, and explores the class system in its waning days in the early 20th century.
Every character, every event, every scene, sets up and reflects upon this event, which took place 20 years before the story takes place.
An odd little book, and unfortunately opening with the weakest story.
And yet, I am not entirely surprised - his other short story collection (The Life to Come) has similar oddities.And they are oddities.
Not odd in a bad way - the word "odd", unfortunately, has accumulated many negative connotations.
These stories are odd in a tender, slight, escaping way.
The point seems to escape you ("I don't see the point of it," says one character - and I don't quite see it either, although some of the stories are obvious in their intent).
Obvious, and yet odd because the obvious parts don't quite fit together.They read like parables.
When I think of E.M. Forster, I think Passage to India, A Room with a View, Merchant and Ivory.
But most of the stories in this book are far from the English manor novels that Forster is known for.
"The Point of It" and "Mr. Andrews" delve into the subject of the afterlife, with mixed success, in my opinion.
The title story does a good job of showing how change and progress do not necessarily equal improvement.
All in all, this collection is something of a mixed bag, with the first and last (title) stories being perhaps the best of the lot.
Whoa, did this really take me 8 months to finish? Well, seems about right. This was my first Forster so I was really excited to dive in. His writing is actually pretty interesting at first, quirky and unpredictably perceptive; careful and articulate. Very much having to do with time, age, class, existentialism and boredom... but it got old fast, and the prose started to feel weirdly suffocating. May have been how he structured the shorts as well. I still want to read A Room with a View, but maybe less urgently now.
Six short stories written before 1914, published here in 1928 in this hardcover edition. Several of the stories are timely now, in varying ways. One is both timely and timeless. The author's very brief introduction says history has changed things a lot since the stories were written and "...under the mass-shock of facts Fantasy has tended to retreat or at allevents to dig herself in. She can be caught in the open here by those who care to catch her."
a wonderful collection. i've never read forsters short stories before, i love how many of them have elements of the mythical in them, and some are downright science fiction, which surprised me.
Really what makes this book good, is the short story "The Machine Stops".
The first and last stories were the best ones. The other ones were not worth reading.
"But the sea no man can bless, because it is too big, and always changing. Therefore she lives in the sea."
A mixed bag of six stories, with the first ("The Machine Stops") and last ("The Eternal Moment") standing out above the rest.
