https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/275833.The_Face_of_Battle
One of the reasons I dallied in finally reading such a seminal work – aside from the fact that I have a hundred unread books awaiting the day my children are in college and I am retired, in three decades or so, if I’m still kicking – is that I didn't love Keegan’s The First World War. At certain times, Keegan’s sentences tend to resemble Colin Firth talking in a Colin Firth romantic comedy.
And when we try to visualize Napoleonic battles, Keegan cautions us to avoid the Salon painting of Second Empire France and Victorian England – the ridiculous CGI of its time, apparently – all those paintings “which by their combination of photographic observation of detail with defiance of physical laws anticipate the work of the Surrealists.” As a contemporary critic, Baudelaire was harsher, calling exhibitions of battle scenes trade fairs for army contractors, vulgar hubbub of boot- and knapsack-makers; and of the soldier-painter Horace Vernet, Baudelaire said, “I hate this man because his pictures are not painting, but a sort of agile and frequent masturbation, an irritation of the French epidermis.”Given the influence I’m told this book has had, Keegan would seem to have succeeded in his effort to convince historians to treat the face of battle as something fugitive and multiform, appearing in many guises to participants variously affected by simple position, by wounds, sleeplessness, hunger, cold, terror, alcohol, noise, and smoke.
In the end, I had to give it a 5 for good analysis and its own bright objectivity.But for myself, I have to wonder why I read military history and why, after each time I do it, I feel sullied and unclean.
He's not only pretty exhaustive and wise about the battles, but he has a healthy dose of self-doubt tempered by a lot of experience.
:)But, of course, any history is going to rest or fall on its details and analysis.
And yet I can still appreciate a good dose of new knowledge, so it balances out.
It’s a rare day that I become smitten with a 75-year old historian, but that day came when I read the introduction to The Face of Battle.
(I know “rain of bullets” is cliché, but I’m not John Keegan.) And with a considerable understanding born of his years researching and teaching at Sandhurst, he explains what on earth compells the average soldier to endure the misery and danger of combat.
Plus you’ll know a lot more about these battles than you would by reading anything else.
An enlightening erudition of three monumental battles in English history: Agincort; Waterloo; and the Somme. Agincort-when battle was chivalrous and troops were led by the kingWaterloo-when the height of technology was the soldier's bayonet The Somme-when the top line of defense was...well...an actual line of trenches and razor wire called the Maginot The author details both the strategy and tactics of each of these battles then finishes the book by comparing and contesting them as well as discussing their relationship to and effects on modern warfare. Any student warfare should read this book. The audio version is also very good.
I readily acknowledge that John Keegan is not perfect and I have found many of his more recent books to be flat, but The Face of Battle is something special.
To understand why Keegan wrote Battle all you have to do is read the first twenty pages.
Keegan examines contemporary military history (mid - 1970's) and it's depiction of the physical reality of combat.
Most notable (at the time of the book being written) would have been writers Cornelius Ryan and John Ellis, but for the most part, historians had not examined the battlefield empirically.With  The Face of Battle  Keegan moved into new territory.
This is a classic book of military history/analysis...but it almost seems blase in some ways, today, because so many writers have learned from Keegan's insights.
While I was listening, I kept thinking that any writer of fiction who wanted to include battle scenes in their stories should read this book before setting their own pens to paper; and I kept seeing lessons from this book reflected in the works of some of my favorite authors.
IMHO some of Keegan's conclusions about mechanisation at the end of his book have been thrown into doubt by the intimacy of many of the recent battles over there.
He writes about battles in a nuts-and-bolts, but also a deeply human way, investigating their moral aspects: why were prisoners sometimes killed, sometimes not?
Why did so many combatants over the centuries enter battle drunk?
How and why did the fatality rate (men killed as a proportion of those entering battle) change over the centuries, or from battle to battle?
What does it mean when somewhere between 10-20% of battle casualties are psychological?
Keegan examines several styles of writing about battles, comparing, for example, Caesar with Thucydides, as well as later historians.
From the pressure of massive crowds of sword-wielding knights pushing each other in a mosh-pit-like mass, to the loud sounds of muskets and cannon at Waterloo, where soldiers blind-fired into the huge clouds of smoke that covered the fields, to the terrifying creeping barrage advances to enemy trenches in World War One, Keegan paints a vivid picture of what battle is really like for the average man in the line.
It is not a description of tactics and battle plans but rather the reason that men fight, how they summon courage, or run away.
He takes an interesting approach by using the backdrop of three famous battles to make his point about war in general and how it and the men involved change (or don't change) over the yearsI have to admit that there were sections which were rather dry...but the author took much of his material from his lectures as an instructor at Sandringham which probably explains those lapses.
This book goes much deeper than the generalities of all wars but instead, delves into the reasons why and the human side of battle.
Written in 1976, The Face of Battle is badly in need of an update.
In addition, the battles are all very British (Agincourt, Waterloo, and The Somme).
This is understandable, since the book is probably an outgrowth from Keegan's teaching notes.
The Face of Battle can be a bit dry at times (the first 20 pages are a real slog), but it can also be quite fascinating.
It was interesting to see that Keegan portrays the demise of calvary as early as Agincourt, which works as a great lead in to all those futile French charges at Waterloo.
Keegan's prose is clear, direct, and (largely) free of tedious academic escape hatches.After analyzing each of the three battles - Agincourt, Waterloo, and the Somme - Keegan makes an effort to plot the trends of battle over the last centuries with an eye toward answering the question: "is battle getting worse?" He uses some mountaineering analogies and makes insightful comments on the way WW2 and Vietnam battls are both similar and dissimilar to the battles of previous eras.The only part where Keegan misses is at the end, where he imagines a future war scenario of conscript soldiers (as in Vietnam) fighting modern battles in heavily armored divisions - half-tracks, tanks, armored transports, etc.
This was the first book I read by John Keegan, and it became the first of many.
Of particular interest is the way he breaks this down into sub-topics like "infantry vs.
archers", "infantry vs.
artillery" etc.This is probably the best non-fiction description of the horror of battle that I have read.
Keegan notes that long ago (and perhaps not so long ago) it was common on the night before battles for a great number of the soon-to-be participants to drink themselves nearly to oblivion, as a way of steeling themselves to face what was to come.Keegan is a well known British military historian, and held a lectureship in Military History at the Royal Military Academy (Sandhurst) for 26 years.
Great book.
I was searching for the psychological aspect of battle, its effects before, during and after.
There is a lot of technical material as well, for those who like it.
I particularly like the "coercion" chapter.
Aftermath, wounds and the psychological effects on modern day are also great.Another really good one is how usually "easy victories later became hard defeats" in most of the time.
If you want to read by curiosity, historically or intend to write more realistically some technical, but most importantly, the real mental effect that battle has, this is a really good book.
The chapters on Agincourt and the Somme were particularly interesting.
Keegan advances some complicated theses, supported by concepts developed in many academic disciplines (psychology, sociology, biology, physics, etc) as well as readings of archival materials, letters, and journals, conversations with soldiers, and what seem to be his own wide-ranging, personal interest in human nature.The result is a book packed densely with insights, whether about the noise made by clattering pikes or 20th Century combined arms; the etymology of "barrage"; or the way fallen soldiers crawl together like sheep on a cold night.
Keegan's focus on the personal, lived experience of soldiers -- chaotic, partial -- builds his seemingly idiosyncratic observations into compelling descriptions of battles.Maybe more unexpectedly, this book is about writing as much as it is about military history.
John Keegan is a sophisticated war historian so there are times when his understanding is over my head.
This was evident during the first 78 pages of the book when Keegan writes an essay about war history.
The point of the book is to give a history of battle from the perspective of the soldier instead of the commander.
Most military histories already document this perspective.
His comments are useful for understanding these battles, the soldier, and even human nature itself.
From a spiritual perspective, it is interesting to note Keegan's observations regarding alcohol and divine service.
"The young have already made their decision.
The militant young have taken that decision a stage further: they will fight for the causes which they profess not through the mechanisms of the state and its armed power but, where necessary, against them, by clandestine and guerrilla methods.
It remains for armies to admit that the battles of the future will be fought in never-never land.
As long as states put weapons in their hands, they will show each other the iron face of war.
But the suspicion grows that battle has already abolished itself"
Keegan reinforces my suspicions, for he states that in the opening volley, "Four clouds of arrows would have streaked out of the English line to reach a height of 100 feet before turning in flight to plunge at a steeper angle on and among the French men-at-arms opposite.
The crunch kept coming from behind, and the “unrelenting pressure from the rear on the backs of those in the line of battle” combined with a lack of organized command gave the English archers the opportunity to charge with swords, axes and hand-weapons.
The Somme, the discussion of which seemed more familiar to the author, relied on trench warfare, a horrific way to fight a battle.
Had to read this for my masters in history class. This book made me realize how boring military history is in academia.
Though he addresses only three battles in detail—Agincourt, on October 25, 1415; Waterloo, on June 18, 1815; and the first day of the Battle of the Somme, on July 1, 1916—so evocative is John Keegan’s study that a reader can come away feeling he or she has acquired a whole new sense of what combat has been like, across centuries of history and even up to the present day, for those who have fought it.Keegan builds up his accounts through the patient accumulation of many details, analytical and descriptive and statistical, at multiple levels.
Both are traditionally subjects studied by specialists other than historians, both suffer from poor contemporary documentation.The accounts of the battles, which do not make pleasant reading, are expertly constructed so that the reader is put into the position of the men on the ground while still having an idea of what is going on at a broader level.
The principal lesson, as has been indicated, is that battles are far more chaotic and brutal than is implied by traditional accounts, and that this has always been the case.The trend seems to be that these factors are constantly increasing, and with them the percentage of soldiers made ineffective for reasons other than death and physical suffering.
John Keegan opens with the point that although he has never been a combatant, military history writing is rife with inaccuracy because most writers either regurgitate the facts baldly without consideration for context or prejudice their story by applying personal filters and perceptions to the antagonists.
Agincourt, Waterloo, Somme; each more bloody than the previous and all to be massively surpassed 30 years later in the second world war.There are sections in each battle which were new to me, Agincourt with it's class distinction between archers and men at arms, Waterloo with english infrantry squares maintaining position in the face of repeated artillery and cavalry charges, and the Somme with Keegan's exploration of what motivated the soldiers to climb out of the trench when it was clear their chance of survival was slim.
He does this by examining three historically significant battles in North-western Europe: Agincourt (1415), Waterloo (1815) and the Somme (1916).This is not your typical book on military history: absent are long discussions about troop deployment patterns or elaborately colored maps detailing the movements of soldiers.
His use of primary sources allows him to paint a convincing and vivid picture of what the battle field experience would have been like for most soldiers in these engagements, and give the reader at least a greater understanding of what the average soldier experiences on the battlefield.Keegan ends the book with some broader discussions of military history, theory, and the future of warfare, most of which are very interesting.
I'm probably not the best person to review this book since my knowledge of military history (and militohistiography) is minimal, but here goes.Keegan attempts to recount what happened at three major battles (Agincourt, Waterloo, Somme).
This is interesting in itself since one may tends to hear about leadership, strategy, and technology rather than "our guys stayed around despite the awful shit that was happening to them while there guys fled after we did awful shit to them." But really the biggest question is, "why do we make young men die like that?" Keegan doesn't really answer this, probably because there isn't an answer, or at least a convincing one.
A book about battles like the Somme and Waterloo has no business being this boring.
Keegan's long winding, multi-claused sentences suffocate all the excitment out of what should be a thrilling topic.
England lost plenty battles in its long history and his using Waterloo and Agincourt demonstrates his unabashed anglocentric bias.
So unless you like paragraph long sentences and have a poster Churchill on your wall or the Duke of Wellington as your screen saver I advise not wasting your time.
A classic in military history which I was supposed to have read for a class back in 1986, I thought this was a reread however I either never read it when I was in college (beer) or forgot it in it's entirety (beer?).
Keegan (back when he was really good) does more then just describe the three battles.
He explains what it was like to actually fight in the each battle, at least as much as he can, it is still a book.
In addition to highlighting the similarities and differences between each battle, he discusses the types of combat, weapons, wounds, and treatment; what caused the men to fight?
Erudite and well thought out, this is a classic of ground level military history.
Though I found it interesting, I was surprised to find myself mentally arguing with it in places, mainly in the chapter on the Somme and the final chapter on the future of battle.
I'm glad I read it, and someone wanting to take any serious run at military history should read it, but it's not quite the last word that I was expecting.
It's also important to keep in mind that it is focused more on the experience of battle than the tactics of it.
This is a book not so much about the events themselves, although he does a wonderful job of the descriptions, but more specifically how the events and the outcomes changed the course of history. This book is based mostly on the combat techniques and strategies incorporated in these battles spanning almost a millennium of human history. I HIGHLY recommend this book to anyone who wishes to learn more about military strategy and theory behind victory.
Very readable, and as I'm very new to all this history of war stuff, a splendid intro to the notion of the "battle" and what it might be like... However, the most interesting section for me was the first chapter, about the challenges of historiography in analysing and writing about the history of battles; it was a good general introduction to the problems of historiography and its lessons would travel wider than war history.
