https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19307.Pippi_in_the_South_Seas
(Oj oj oj oj oj oj oj!) Old Pirate Fabbe, grandad's dadToughest guy the family ever hadBut he gets seasick and that makes him madJoey had a lit an' lay.The wind comes up, now don't dare laughSoon as the storm's gone a minute and halfHe's in the bathroom, 'cause he's gotta barfJoey an' a lit an' lay.Crawls to his bunk, lies down for a bitYells at the crew who couldn't give a shit"Fix that wind or I'm gonna quit!"Joey had a lit an' lay.No way!What didya say?Why's Fabbe gone all pale and gray?No way!What didya say?oj oj-oj-oj oj-oj-oj!
Reading Pippi is like reading Plato, but better because Socrates didn't have a monkey named Mr. Nilsson. The faux simpleton toys with the stiffs before devastating them with some Five-Point-Palm-Exploding-Heart Technique of logic."Now then," she said finally, "will you tell me how you spell 'seasick'?""I'll be glad to," said Pippi, "S-e-e-s-i-c-k."Miss Rosenblom smiled - a sour smile. "Is that so?" she said. "The dictionary spells it differently.""Then it was very lucky that you wanted to know how I spell it, said Pippi. "S-e-e-s-i-c-k is the way I have always spelled it and it seems to have worked out just fine."
this is the last of the original pippi books, in which pippi, tommy, & annika board captain longstocking's ship, the hoptoad, & set sail for the south seas cannibal island where he is king.
hijinks ensue, such as pippi telling off a shark, protecting the island's pearls from robbers, & promising with tommy & annika to never grow up.
i like this book, although i am the first to admit that some of the south seas cannibal islanders stuff is racially suspect.
so i do feel conflicted about that issue, & prefer the first two pippi books as a result.
When I was seven years old on my first visit to New York and FAO Schwartz, my parents told me that i could pick out one of whatever I wanted. I got this. BOOK NERD!
I was Pippi for Halloween and I think that's what made me want to finish the series.
I had already read book 1 and I kept putting off reading the rest.
But being Pippi for Halloween inspired me to read the other 2 books.
My favorite part was how Pippi always got away from the bad guys, sometimes by lying and sometimes by telling the truth.
This made them confused about whether she was telling the truth about one thing or the other.
Now I want to get Pippi on the Run, the 4th book.
I read this aloud to my daughter, after reading the other two Pippi books.
She hangs on every word and when one chapter ends, nearly salivates for the next.
Each chapter is a nearly self-contained episode, and works quite well for bedtime stories.
Amusingly, my son (a bit older) pretends not to care, but hangs just around the corner whenever one of the books opens, clearly listening to all Pippi's adventures too.
(Same with the husband, so I have simply moved the "daughter's" story time to the living room!) My family falls into gales of laughter as Pippi spins her tall tales, and Pippi's simple self-assurance is quite refreshing.
That said, I preferred the first Pippi Longstocking book.
My kids love Pippi. They love how she does all the things they aren't supposed to do, she's a kind of transgressive fantasy. But she does it all with such a good heart; this little smart-alack is motivated by love, confidence, and a tremendous sense of humor. If you are looking for A++ girl role models that are still funny and fun to read, Pippi is the way to go.
I enjoyed the first Pippi book. This had some fun moments and it didn't really draw me in the same way. It is strange Pippi would choose to live separate from her father. Pippi is a strong and fun character. I enjoy that about her. Maybe children would enjoy it more than an adult.
Too good. Re-read from my childhood years.
This story didn't add much to the world or character of Pippi Longstocking.(view spoiler)[ Pippi, Tommy and Annika travel to her father's island and have a nice time.
At the end of the book all three children decide never to grow up, as the things adults concern themselves with are not very important - things like taxes and being superstitious and afraid of things like putting a knife in your mouth.
(hide spoiler)]Although it was an enjoyable read hearing how Pippi tackles each situation and how she philanthropically helps others, it was just an average read.
It was so funny I spat my hot chocolate out when I was reading It. I love Pippi, Mr Nelson and her horse.And on the back of the book it says..."Have you ever given a shark a good telling-off? Pippi has!""Do you know what a squeazle is? Pippi does! "Can you carry your dad on your shoulders? Pippi can!" Pippi can do anything!
I remember loving Pippi as a kid, but rereading the stories now with my 7 year old, I'm not nearly as enamoured with her. My daughter LOVES this book, though. She laughed out loud while reading it, which is very rare for her to do. I think she would give this book at least 4 stars, maybe 5. Maybe sometimes an adult perspective isn't the best one :).
Lucuuu...menghibur, cocok kalo lagi suntuk..dan memang itu tujuan aku baca buku ini. Hanya saja, masih ada sisi kelabu dalam cerita Pippi ini, Pippi yang lucu, bengal,nakal dan selalu gembira hanya hidup sendiri di Pondok Serbaneka, kontras dengan segala kegembiraan yang selalu dibawanya.
The final Pippi book isn't quite as charming as the first 2, but fun nonetheless.
Astrid Lindgren hat es geschafft! Nach drei Pippi-Teilen bin ich schließlich von ihr überzeugt wurden, dass ich die rothaarige Göre gern haben muss. Wie es Frau Settergren so schön ihren skeptischen Verwandten erklärt, warum sie ihre Kinder Pippi anvertraut: mag sie sich nicht fein benehmen - doch hat sie ein gutes Herz.Besonders hervorheben, möchte ich das Weihnachtskapitel, in dem sich die Kinder über das gefürchtete Großwerden austauschen. Lindgren ist damit ein würdevoller wie brillanter Abschluss ihrer Pippi-Erzählungen gelungen. Besser geht es nicht! Ich liebe gelungene Schlüsse!!!
Charming conclusion to the Pippi stories. I’m glad I read them again, after so many years.
My kids and I enjoyed listening to an audio recording of the first Pippi book. I read them about 2/3 of this book. We enjoyed it but we were all ready to abandon it before we finished. Cute and funny enough but not enough to hold our interest.
I loved this book as a child and I've thoroughly enjoyed reading it to my 5 year old daughter ❤️
"Irrepressible Nordic Pixie Takes Charge!"  This red-headed little rascal has charmed young readers all over the world with her high-spirited antics.
While the Captain is off ruling his distant island somewhere in the South seas, his spunky daughter entertains as an unconventional hostess in her ramshackle home.
But Pippi undertakes to make up for this tragedy in her own, inimitable fashion upon their return; she proves a loyal friend and a great hostess.
Like Peter Pan Pippi urges her friends to eat some magic peas so that they Won’t have to grow up.
Não poucas vezes me provocou sorrisos e algumas gargalhadas, chegando também a comover-me.Após a leitura desta magnífica obra de literatura infantil, fiquei sem dúvida uma admiradora desta autora que antes desconhecia.
Não vejo como o leitor poderá resistir a ser completamente arrebatado e conquistado por esta singular personagem.Tenho pena de ter iniciado esta minha descoberta pela última história, mas julgo que isso não terá muita influência para as futuras leituras das aventuras de Pipi de Astrid Lindgren, as quais não vejo a hora de ler.
Sem este blogue, duvido que tivesse lido por iniciativa própria, esta pequena grande obra.Não posso recomendar mais.
While on the island, Pippi faces down two sea-faring bandits who were up to no good, similar to the way in which she handled two would-be burglars in the first book.
Thankfully, Pippi saves a bunch of children from disgrace with her usual good-hearted sense of justice.
Pippi, as usual, completely and selflessly devotes her time and energy to making her dear friends Tommy and Annika happy.
The last couple pages had a kind of wistfulness to them, as the three children hope to never grow up, and Tommy and Annika take comfort in knowing that Pippi will "always" be at Villa Villekulla.
2.5*I prefer the second book to this one, but it was alright. It didn't seem at all familiar to me, so I don't think I ever got around to reading this one even though I own it. It's slightly uncomfortable at times with the way they refer to the natives of the island... And Tommy can be quite the bully to his sister sometimes! Also, there's a girl called Moana. :)
Pippi Longstocking is a little girl who lives by herself in her house, Villa Villekulla.
When her father sends a message for Pippi to come join him on his island, her and her friends, Tommy and Annika board the boat and join Pippi's father in the south seas.
Will they get back in time?I picked up this book because I read the first two Pippi Longstocking books, and I liked them a lot.
Pippi, Tommy, Annika, and all the children on the island kept me entertained the whole time I was reading the book.I would recommend this book to Emma.
We read a "non-cannibal" translation by Gerry Bothmer.
Another reviewer noted some potentially offensive language in a different translation.
When we read the prior books in the series, I was not crazy about Pippi's dad being referred to as a "cannibal king" either.
This version used either the terms "South Sea Islanders" or "Kurrekurredutts" to refer to the inhabitants of the island of the same name.
She, like Tommy and Annika, adores Pippi and closed out the trilogy very satisfied to have had so much fun with this very special, spunky, charmer.
Pippi doesn't grow up, as much as she grows more generous and insightful into her acts of kindness.
Her mischief becomes more and more benevolent, less and less naughty.In this installment, Pippi visits the island where her father is king.
She takes Tommy and Annika so that they can recover from an illness.
While they are there, she protects the native children from robbers, reigns in humility, and otherwise enjoys life in the South Seas.
She tells Tommy and Annika that she may never return to Villa Villekula, but she does so for their sake--and tops it off with a special surprise, just for them.
Does it even count as read if I could only handle seventeen pages?
(15 from the beginning, and then two of the last chapter--then I realized that I don't care how it ends.The Prose = AwfulPippi = ANNOYINGPippi's Friends = It seems as if this is how readers are supposed to insert themselves into the story, because Annika and Tommy are so freaking bland that I had to look their names up again a minute after reading a portion of the book--it's like Bella Swan for kiddies.
Except instead of "all girls want a beautiful vampire lover" it's "all little kids want a weird pig-tailed biffle?"Anne-Marie, why?
(And I think Pippi Longstocking weirded me out as a first-grader, too.)
Our entire family has enjoyed reading this one about a sassy little spark of a girl and her antics.
My husband and I take turns reading books to our sons at night, and this has been the first book in memory where we both join on the other parents' night because we don't want to miss a chapter.
That said, I have to admit that I find myself doing a little clever censoring as I read this book to my 5- and almost-3- year-olds.
There are isolated spots in the story that are racist, or characters who are sexist or violent, and I just don't feel like turning an otherwise enjoyable storytime into a 'teachable moment'.
I'm not sure this book's portrayal of indigenous island peoples would stand up to an adult re-read (and my social activist standards) but I loved this book when I was young.My aunt gave me this book as a kid. We are both red heads, and I remember her telling a story about how she dressed as Pippi for Halloween. She used pipe cleaners inside her braids to make them stand up like Pippi's. I also remember watching the movies on TV on the weekends. They must have been made in Scandinavia, because the words/voices didn't match the actors' mouths.
What I like most about this work is that it offers children from non-Scandinavian countries a view of a world without war, where children's perspective wins the battle against violent adults. It would have been a great alternative read to my generation in Serbia, since we went through all possible forms of violence (several wars included). I don't believe it will ever find its rightful place within mandatory school literature, since our authorities prefer violent nationalist trash, but one can at least spread the word and hope that children would find Lindgren's works in libraries.
In this book, Pippi visits the island where her father, a cannibal king, rules. Her friends Tommy and Annika come with her and the three have fun together with the natives, having games such as seeing who can spit the farthest. Pippi climbs in a barrel and has Tommy push her off a cliff down a waterfall in it; of course, she isn't hurt, because she is the strongest human being alive. At the end, SPOILER, she and her friends all take a pill that will keep you young forever (kind of reminds me of Peter Pan).
