https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/553741.The_Rich_Boy
Thus, the people around him know he is superior – they know he is rich by just looking at him.The tension of the story begins right away – with Anson's fitful love for Paula, and an iffy engagement, tinged with the kind of alcoholism that deviously thwarts everything in sight.
However, Anson’s ultimate indecision in regards to commitment and real love, his hyper-vigilant need to interfere in the affairs of others, begins to strike me as infuriating - and of course, this very lapse in character adds to the tension of the story.
When I hear a man proclaiming himself an “average, honest, open fellow”, I feel pretty sure that he has some definite and perhaps terrible abnormality which he has agree to conceal.This was pretty much the only interesting thing about the story.
I like this quote a lot.I read The Rich Boy because episode 7 of Banana Fish is titled after this story.
There is almost nothing in common between Yut-Lung Lee (Banana Fish) and Anson Hunter (The Rich Boy).I didn’t expect to like the hero and I didn’t.
Scott Fitzgerald portrays women.
It’s condescending and belittling.All in all, apart from that quote, I didn’t like anything.
Bruccoli is one of Fitzgerald's "most promiscuously misquoted sentences", is about the rich and reads: “They are different from you and me.” Hemingway, in his story The Snows of Kilimanjaro, has his main character muse the following in a stream of consciousness: 
He remembered poor Scott Fitzgerald and his romantic awe of them and how he had started a story once that began, 'The rich are different from you and me.' And how someone had said to Scott, Yes, they have more money.
Where Gatsby explores the concept of wealth and class from the point of view of the outsider---for no matter how much wealth Gatsby amasses, no matter how lavish his parties, no matter how desired his company, he will never be truly accepted because, as Fitzgerald hammers home in this novella just like he did in Gatsby---the rich are different than we are.
Where Gatsby shows us how the wealthy damage and toy with the “common” people---The Rich Boy shows us how they damage themselves, even if they lack the ability to truly feel it.
Because summer's kiss is fading, and even when you're not a great enthusiast for summer, that always evokes a certain melancholy, I felt the need for some Fitzgerald.
Scott's shorts get a bad press, usually considered the hackwork that stopped him writing more novels (I suppose in a sense I cleaved to that by wanting to save Tender), but that gift of his for evoking the perfect, fragile moment, and the sadness of the moment's passing - you don't need more than 20 pages for a hit of that.
So beautiful. So, so raw and vulnerable and captivating. The bittersweet conversations of an imagined past and a cherished love which couldn’t withstand his superiority. He searches for happiness through others’ relationships because he can’t fully open up in his own... ‘I was infatuated with you, Anson - you could make me do anything you liked. But we wouldn’t have been happy. I’m not smart enough for you. I don’t like things to be complicated like you do’ ... wow this was powerful. My favourite quotation from the short story... a mark of how love is sometimes not enough.
'The Rich Boy' lacked the golden lacquer that elevated Gatsby (which was written earlier; 'The Rich Boy' was written while Gatsby was waiting to be published, and clearly is an extension of the themes raised in the novel.) For lovers of Gatsby, perhaps this book serves as a fitting extension of Jay Gatsby's world and a thoughtful imagining of what an associate of his might look like up close.'Winter Dreams' is another partygoer to the Gatsby fête.
Χαρακτηριστικά, ο συγγραφέας αναφέρει στην εισαγωγή ότι εμπνεύστηκε την ιστορία από τον κουμπάρο και συμφοιτητή του στο Πανεπιστήμιο του Πρίνστον, Λάντλοου Φάουλερ, ενώ θεωρεί ότι πρόκειται για ένα από τα καλύτερα κείμενα που έγραψε ποτέ.
Θα συμφωνήσω προσθέτοντας ότι αποτελεί ένα αντιπροσωπευτικό λογοτεχνικό δείγμα του νέου μεγαλοαστού άντρα που ενηλικιώνεται, αμέσως μετά τον Α' παγκόσμιο Πόλεμο, παλεύει να ξεφύγει απο μια συμβατική ζωή, προσπαθεί αποτυχημένα να αποφύγει το 'ξέφρενο' πνεύμα του Μεσοπολέμου, αλλά καταλήγει με μαθηματική ακρίβεια να αγκαλιάζει την μοναξιά, την ραθυμία, την αποστασιοποίηση και την έλλειψη δημιουργικότητας.
Για τον βασικό ήρωα, Άνσον Χάντερ, κάθε στάδιο είναι και ένα μάθημα αυτογνωσίας από το οποίο είτε προσπαθεί να κερδίσει είτε να χάσει σημαντικά κομμάτια του εαυτού του, αφού, αρκετές φορές, αυτοσαμποτάρεται μην μπορώντας να 'αφεθεί' συναιασθηματικά.
Insustancial. Creo que abandono a este escritor que me deslumbro en Gatsby.
F. Scott, the F is for Flames. I am repeatedly delighted by his prose and ability to describe the human condition with despairing romance."Nevertheless, they fell in love--and on her terms...Whenever they were seen together they were engaged in a long, serious dialogue, which must have gone on several weeks. ""'Life,' he would explain sometimes," has made a cynic of me. By life he meant Paula.""Most of our lives end as a compromise--it was as a compromise that his life began."
I thought I'd lost this book in the middle of reading it(thought it fell out of my bag while riding my scooter), but then weeks after giving up on it resurfacing I found it sandwiched between my night stand and the bed. Quickly finished it before I had the chance to lose it again and thoroughly enjoyed it.
I fell in love with The Great Gatsby. The Rich Boy is a short story which, though not as great, is somewhat reminiscent of Gatsby. And because it is written by F. Scott Fitzgerald, it is a must read.
4,5 . Και εξαιρετικη μετάφραση
There’s something about Fitzgerald that makes me feel as though I’ve actually gone back in time. I found this story so relatable and beautifully written.
That was a great read.
His first problem is that he sees himself as superior."Fair enough.But what about: He gets a job, "entering a brokerage house, joining half a dozen clubs, [and] dancing late." Even as he moves up the corporate ladder, there is still that part of him that is unable to give up the schoolboy carousing, the indifference toward the responsibilities that fate has laid upon his shoulders as the wages of being rich.Isn't he doing what is he supposed to do?That beeing party hard?What i cannot understand is this:If she was "the one that got away", how should he just say something between the lines of:She is quite dull,but she is intelligent,wealthy("her family helped build New York),..So we would make a good pair(at some point there was a girl except from Dolly who fitted) so they should just marry EVEN if they don't have a connection?My question is basically if waiting for him would be a mistake...And "His second mistake is in self-righteously condemning his aunt Edna for having an affair.
φιλοτεχνεί ένα ακόμη πορτραίτο νεαρού πλούσιου και εργατικού αμερικανού, του Άνσον, γεννημένου στην ευκολία των μέσων και μαθημένου στην αντιμετώπιση των άλλων ως μέσων για την επιβεβαίωσή του, που μοιάζει να τον οδηγεί σε συναισθηματική αναπηρία –εν μέρει θύμα του αισθήματος ανωτερότητας που τον διαπότισε από τα παιδικά του χρόνιας και της χωρίς προσπάθεια αναγνώρισής του από τους άλλους.
Μετά τον ανομολόγητο κλονισμό του από ότι τραγικό θα συμβεί στην Πώλα, όλα μοιάζει να ξεπερνιούνται σχετικά εύκολα σε ένα ταξίδι και να ξαναρχίζουν: «Είδες εκείνη τη γυναίκα με τον κόκκινο σκοτσέζικο σκούφο;», ρωτά ο Άνσον τον σχεδόν αδιόρατο και αμέτοχο αφηγητή της ιστορίας του.
People start comparing themselves to the rich, as "you and me", and naturally, not being rich, we see the negative differences.
There is absolutely nothing unbiased or fair about comparing the rich and the not rich so I doubt we'll ever realize the true difference in human quality, if any.Fitzgerald does exploit Anson Hunter's superiority complex.
Because of economic power, a kind of factual superiority, Anson is taught, or nurtured, that normalcy is being sought after and envied.
So often we see poor people as victims of their inherited circumstance.
Can rich people be victimized as well?Anson doesn't settle down, though he wants to.
The Rich Boy is an excellent short story/novella, which has some of the ambience and narrative devices of The Great Gatsby, but is, in some ways, more nuanced and clinical in tone.
The story then tracks the "life" of Ansen, the main character born rich.
I put life in quotes because the story ends when Ansen sees himself as old, in this thirties.
The best parts of this novella are the insights and descriptions of the tribe of the born rich, among Fitzgerald's substantive interests and talents.
"For a long time afterwards Anson believed that a protective God sometimes interfered in human affairs.
But Dolly Karger, lying awake and staring at the ceiling, never again believed in anything at all." p.
27"I don't think he was ever happy unless someone was in love with him, responding to him like filings to a magnet, helping him to explain himself, promising him something.
What it was I do not know.
Perhaps they promised that there would always be women in the world who would spend their brightest, freshest, rarest, hours to nurse and protect that superiority he cherished in his heart." p.

Begin with an individual, and before you know it you find that you have created a type; begin with a type, and you find that you have created--nothing.When I hear a man proclaiming himself an "average, honest, open fellow," I feel pretty sure that he has some definite and perhaps terrible abnormality which he has agreed to conceal--and his protestation of being average and honest and open is his way of reminding himself of his misprision."Life," he would explain sometimes, "has made a cynic of me."
Set in the first part of the twentieth century, these three short stories deal with the recurring themes of money, love, lost opportunities and aging. The best of the three is the 'The Last of the Belles'. The three stories as a whole are moving and thought provoking - definitely worth reading for anyone approaching middle age (which, when these stories was written, appeared to be considered thirty years old) or wondering about middle age regrets.
“I was infatuated with you, Anson — you could make me do anything you liked. But we wouldn’t have been happy. I’m not smart enough for you. I don’t like things to be complicated like you do.” She paused. “You’ll never settle down,” she said
After beginning to study the Great Gatsby I wanted to read more of F. Scott. Fitzgerald's work to get a real idea of how his writing style works and thought that his short stories were the best place to start.
As in most short story collections, there are several mediocre stories within this one in particular, but many contain the classic Fitzgerald commentary on the suffering and truth the people of America, and the world, have and will always face.
His creation of characters (likable and hated) is a treat in this story. However, I can't remember the ending or the importance of the ending; but the book has a great message about the results of being raised a certain way.
The best short story ever! Scott Fitzgerald give us the best! Talks about the story of a rich boy, but it's completely different as we asume it gonna be. I loved Anson and how Scott show the human character, the force of the affections, amazing
I found this book very interesting. One thing I noticed about his writing is the way he creates the unattainable woman...This guy has skils.
Love love love F Scott Fitzgerald. 3 beautiful short stories with their wonderfully sketched inevitably fraught, relationship-conflicted men.
