https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6434232-born-of-ice
Listened by audio. Sweet hero. For the most part I liked him. Did not love the OW scene. That and all his talk about needing to get laid was too much for me. The heroine was self depreciating and too much the martyr for me. I did not like her but did not hate her. And she did ok by him in the end. However her history disturbed me. This book was a bit of a snore. I am sure I will forget all about it tomorrow.
I loved and I mean loved the first two books in the League series.
I liked them both, but I'm sorry as a couple I liked Syn and Shahara so much more.They were just way more likeable and sweet together.
But the plot was nice, it was short and sweet and had just enough twists and turns to keep me interested.
And the characters supported the story well, I believed it.
We also see a whole heap of new characters, and for that alone I would have read the book.
Vik was and always will be my favourite character out of the league series.
Sci-fi mood sci-fi mood *dances*But… it still wasn’t what I wanted. Dammit it’s difficult to find a good sci-fi romance full of action, adventure, drama and emotional moments and less on thoughts about how hot the dude you’re drooling is. Yes Alix, that’s you. “You want me to reset the machine?” No. I want to ride you until you’re begging me for mercy. Clearing her throat, she tried to shove that image out of her mind. “That would be great. Thanks.” And strip off the rest of your clothes while y
Dammit it’s difficult to find a good sci-fi romance full of action, adventure, drama and emotional moments and less on thoughts about how hot the dude you’re drooling is.
Anyways, I still loved the crew and I want to be a part of it and live on the ship and be a cool copilot and go to dangerous missions and have an exciting life while visiting different planets.
At first I thought she’s sweet and felt bad for her childhood issues but she didn’t make a good heroine.
Nothing too fancy.Aaaaaaaand Nero ♥ he’s my boy-toy in this series!Well *sighs* I wanted more action and a better story.
However, the first gen characters are still featured throughout this book.
Also, we are introduced to a cast of memorable characters who are sure to be great heroes / heroines in future releases.
As for our current hero and heroine, Devyn and Alix… the circumstances surrounding their meeting and subsequent relationship is strikingly similar to that of Syn and Shahara in Born of Fire.
The secondary characters, particularly Sway and Vik were a great comedic addition.Overall, this has been a great series to read.
I’m looking forward to Ardon and Callien’s stories.
2.5 stars
The third books in The League Series and supremely awesome. This installment features Devyn, Syn and Shahara's (Born of Fire) son. I, personally, think that, after Born of Fire, this book is the next best in the series, with Born of Night coming in third. Many new characters were introduced in this novel (Hello, most Nykyrian and Kiara's kids). I don't wanna give away anything from the book, so I'm just gonna stick with saying that this book is fantastic and I haven't stopped thinking about it since I finished it. Read it!
Everything happened so quickly in the book.I'm sorry but I have to say I did not like that Alix was the "entertainment" for her father's crew.
Really, the whole thing was kind of glossed over as if it didn't really bother Alix that she had to have sex with her father's men.
I feel like it was just thrown in there to make Alix have a haunting past so that at least one of them did.
I did like Alix, as of course, it wasn't her fault but I just don't think it was needed.
I liked that Alix and Devyn weren't at odds constantly through the book.
I wanted to know what became of the rest of the members of the original Sentella that we met in book 1.
Plus it will be awkward to keep jumping from past to present and now that I met all the kids I see the potential for many stories, I just don't want to go back, It was actually very difficult to keep in mind that the characters I just read about are in their 50s and 60s now.
The saving grace of this book were the characters.
They were interesting and definitely left me wanting to know more about them.
This is like a fanfiction of book #2.
The book tries to add some discord to his past by having an ex-fiance try to kill him and giving him a run-in with a commanding officer during a brief stint in the army, but it just doesn't get the job done when we see our hero jet-setting around in his top-of-the-line space ship without a care in the world.The heroine of the story, Alix, was basically the exact opposite of Devyn.
He treats Alix like dirt because she's a slave and has no compunction whatsoever about threatening the lives of her family in order to force her to betray Devyn.(view spoiler)[But then we're expected to accept that he's actually one of the good guys when he suddenly switches sides in the final climax?
Although Alix felt mutual attraction towards Devyn, she continued to struggle with her spying purposes and how it would be wrong to fabricate evidence against Devyn.So, after reading about one-third of the book, I could honestly tell you that nothing really happened, other than that we were introduced to the characters and that Alix was able to get herself onto Devyn’s ship to work as an engineer.
The plot building was extremely slow in the works, and the whole situation was a joke because Devyn appeared to think with his penis and not his brain in Alix’s presense for a good part of the book.
Ok so I started this book today, 104 pages in, and wouldn't you believe it, it's almost the same as book #2.
Change character names and push the time line along oh 30 years or so and you have the same: girl meets boy, both have sordid pasts, instant mutual attraction, and here's the shocker.....
I may start to vomit from all the gagging....stay tuned, I'll let you know.So the book is now finished....
What's the point in reading a book when you know exactly how the end is going to play out?
I curse myself for my horrible need to finish a book when I start reading it.
Even on her worst day, I can't dislike a Sherrilyn Kenyon book. Admittedly, this is my least favorite installment in the League series, but I still enjoyed it. Kenyon hit the fast-forward button, focusing this third book on the children of our core characters in  Born of Night  and  Born of Fire . Our hero is Devyn, son of Sin and Sharhara. He is the captain of a runner-ship and a doctor, like his father. He tried working with the League, but his ethics got in the way, so now he spends most of h
Of course, despite her intention of doing what she must to save her family, that's easier said than done when she starts to fall for Devyn.There were things I really liked about the book.
It was great meeting all of Nykyrian's kids and seeing what happened to so many of the characters I grew attached to in the early books.
I didn't really feel why Devyn fell for Alix (though it was obvious why she fell for him.) Shahara's character felt off to me, nothing like the woman from Born of Fire.
Born of Ice tells the story of Devyn Kell former League soldier and civilian Alix Garran.
Devyn is always one step ahead of The League.
With the past and their enemies catching up to them, they'll have to stick together if they want to survive.This is the third installment in The League series.
On first seeing and hearing Devyn, Alix is mesmerized by him.
Devyn is likewise attracted, but also haunted because Alix reminds him of someone he use to know.
And I have to say Alix really deserves to wreak some vengeance.I loved this book, so far Devyn is my favorite League character.
This is the book that broke the camels back.
This is the last Sherrilyn Kenyon book I'll be reading.
This book is the same as all her others.
Characters betraying each other but because of insta-lust and insta-love they over look that.
They have sex and fall in love during chapter 3.
They're together forever (obviously) by the end of the book, which takes place less than 3 weeks from the beginning.
I was cringing every other sentience, not only in this book but if practically every other book of hers I've read.
Onto better books.
Practically anything will do.
Let me just start off by saying that I really enjoyed this book WAY better than what I had thought.
First was that fact that this story resembled Syn and Shahara's story.
I felt like I read this before and I figured it out half way through the book.
BUT, we don't even know what happened to some of the main characters from the first book.
Also I wanted to learn some more about Paden and Syn's relationship.
Even with that, I really liked the book.
I do look forward to learning more about the other characters.
This was a fantastic series.I don't want to give anything away on this last book, because it will spoil too much of the first two books.All I can say is that SK has outdone herself. How she could come up with yer another GREAT series after the Dark/Dream Hunter series, I'll never know. But thank you SK for all you give to the PNR books.A great read...
Another Great Book!I love this series. One of my all time favorite series to read. I love how this series spans generations. On to the next book.
I was extremely frustrated about this because I really got to LOVE all the characters we have been introduced to before this book and I wanted to read their HEA before going to new characters we haven't met yet.
Alix isn't alpha material either but she is a great heroine who grew up in the worst conditions a human being could have so it's really interesting to start seeing the person she was really meant to be once the chance is given to her.While the romance and the plot wasn't as interesting as in the previous books at the beginning, the book got way better more to the 50% of it.
As the engineer that his runner crew so desperately needs.But no one could have told her that with them she would find the one thing that she needs more than any other.Acceptance.This book is one that pulls at the heartstrings from the start.First, with the horror of Alix's back story.Then, with all of the altruism, love, family, and honor surrounding Devyn.The fact that our leading man is also smart, a bad-ass in battle, and sexy as hell doesn't hurt either.Things between Alix and Devyn start slowly enough to give both the audience and the players time to realize just how much both really want the relationship.The fact that things heat up romantically, before they do plot wise only serves to ensure that both reader and characters are fully locked and loaded for the roller coaster ride that is about to ensue.If you think that Alix's secret is the only one to be had, you are so wrong.As it turns out, hers is just the icing on a very delicious "oh no they didn't" plot twist cake.This is a very fast paced, comical, romantic, action packed read.
A long time has passed since Born of Fire, and this book features Syn and Sharaha's son, Devyn.
Devyn and Alix never had a big falling out.
I really loved the family that Devyn had, especially Omari.
:P Devyn was pretty sweet and bad-ass, but not as brooding and tortured as his father.
Its weird to skip so many years and meet the children of couples that we dont see get together until later in the series.
I suppose it may help to read this immediately after reading about Devyn's parents meeting.
But then the series goes back to focusing on Nykyrian and Syn's fellow Sentella members.
The only way she can save her mother and little sister is to do as they command and infiltrate the ship of Devyn Kell, a Runner, and find evidence of his illegal activities.
This book is set further in to the future than Born of Fire and Devyn Kell is actually Syn and Shahara's son.
This is actually a reread for me and so I know that the next books all go back to the previous time line, so it is odd to have this random book set further on in the future slapped into the middle of the series.
[I had some trouble with the heroine in book 2 - but she's the hero's mom in this one and has improved with age.:] Devyn is the son of Sin and Shahara from Born of Fire and like his father is doctor and a world saver.
Didn't Mom, Dad, and Uncle Nykarian make clear to him that protecting the innocent is WAY down on the League's To-Do list?
What's not to love?Definitely read in order...League1.
Born of Ice: Love in Another Time, Another Place (1994) aka Paradise City4.
Fire and Ice also appears in In Other Worlds (omnibus) (2010)5.
Now that was an incredible ending and a book.
Devyn is the only child of Syn and Shahara's.
Shahara's lost her oldest son (I presume during birth) but Devyn is the only child who have a mechanical heart as a girl he was in a relationship with stabbed him in the heart but his father, Syn saved his life.
And Devyn adopted Omari, the boy he ruined his career for.
I love how this story had Paden in it.
It was the ending that made the book awesome.
I LOVED IT.
Though, I wish Paden was more in the story.
When I first started to read I was confused because it didn't seem like there were any characters in common and these were just random new people.
But once I realized that the series was on to the next generation it got very interesting, especially as all the old people started to pop in along with the kids and you saw how the original group of friends stayed really close, their kids growing up like siblings to each other.Alix was put in a no win situation where her only course was to do what she was told.

this book was so far the best of the series like people have said.
I love it how it was Shay and Syn's son...
But loved the concept of it being so many years later than the last book, instead of the typical ok this one of this set of people is going to be next to find their love and happiness.
Instead its the son of said people.
I Love Sherrilyn Kenyon she is one of my favorite authors, and I can't wait to read more of her work.
he heNo really, though, this was my favorite in the series but only barely, since the other 2 were very very good.
I liked how the deception was discovered and moved outta the way so they could move on quickly, rather than waiting til the end to find out Alix was supposed to frame Devyn.
I loved Shahara and all the kids and cousins coming outta the woodwork.
It was really hard to see Paden as a good guy, but I'm glad he redeemed himself :) and i'm glad he's really Syn's son.
It was a good read, and a good series
I've read a lot of this author's books and they are all the same. Incredibly handsome man blah blah blah horrific childhood physical and sexual abuse blah blah blah but somehow also incredibly talented and rich blah blah blah beautiful "tiny" woman with all of the above blah blah blah massive amounts of introspective insecurity on both sides blah blah blah but somehow they are soul mates and, despite the history of abuse, go at it like bunnies at every opportunity. This one in particular creeped me out.
I felt as though this story was a rehash of Born of Fire. Although Devyn and Alice were likeable enough characters, there was no depth to them or their romance. It felt very flat and forced. If you are a fan of this series, I would recommend reading this just so you get to learn more about the other great characters in this story. I would not recommend it for the plot or romance aspects.
