https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/430450.Molesworth
“As any fule kno,”* what could be more fun?Molesworth 1 (so called by his schoolmasters and peers to distinguish him from his younger and stupider brother, Molesworth 2) remains as ignorant, lazy, and pig-headed as ever in How to Be Topp, Whizz for Atomms, and Back in the Jug Agane, Down With Skool!’s three sequels.
While the sequels aren’t as hilarious as Down with Skool!, they’re still pretty good, particularly Whizz for Atomms, which is nearly its equal.
Almost 60 years since Nigel Molesworth, the curse of St. Custards, turned a withering eye on the English public school system, the British class system, and life in general, his four masterpieces, "Down With Skool", "How to be Topp", "Whizz for Atoms", and "Back in the Jug Agane" are still as fresh as the day they were written.
The collaboration of Geoffrey Willans who crafted the inimitable prose (and even more inimitable spelling) and Ronald Searle who drew the matchless illustrations, produced a little world of surreal perfection which is still mercifully open to those who can leave their grown-upness outside the creaking gates of St. Custard's.
Have you ever sensed a kindred spirit upon hearing the words "as any fule kno"?Has your trained ear been able to detect the difference between "No!" and "Noe!"?*Have you ever seen a gerund cut a gerundive?Or puzzled out the meaning of "Caesar adsum jam forte"?Or cried, "THE PRUNES ARE REVOLTING!"?If not, you need to read these books.* "Crie you mercie, Mowlesworth!" "Noe!"
In fact, it's a dual effort, Ronald Searle being the other contributor, and the latter's zany, way-out illustrations contribute as much as the text to this work being one of the all-time classics of school comedy.The Molesworth stories deal with the (obviously) fictitious St Custard's school (or "skool", for Nigel's spelling is not especially accurate), essentially a highly satarised version of what a typical English boarding school was like in the 1950s.
I first read this book when I was at a school that could have been the model for St Custards and I got into trouble for being unable to control my hysterical laughter. I cannot listen to the march past of the Rifle Brigade without laughing. The writing is beautiful, as are the illustrations. This is a must read for anybody who enjoys a belly laugh and the repeated cocking of snooks at the English and their societies
I agree with Philip Hensher ( a good 10 years younger than me) who wrote the introduction to this anthology: "I thought they were children's books, when I was a child, and now that I am an adult, think they are books for adults about childhood."True, it's ostensibly a kind of childhood that at first glance seems very much removed from anything that we know today (post-war, private boarding school, corporal punishment the norm) but that doesn't in any way detract from the books' charms.
Post-war Britain as seen through the jaundiced eye of a child.
It was on my father's bookshelf, pushed haphazardly in among the more erudite and literary offerings of George Orwell and the poetry of Byron.
My father, an English teacher, loved that book.
I loved it too, and revisited it many times.Until I chanced upon this compilation of the three "Molesworth" books jammed into one volume, I had no idea that they were so popular.
I thought dad's book was a quirky obscure little volume.
I've been reading "Molesworth" over the past few weeks, picking it up and putting it down, laughing at the lines, appreciative of its comedic genius.
One of the funniest books I have ever read. And re-read. And re-re-read times without number. A gauranteed pick-me-up, no matter how down you are. "Do ye ken John Plunk in his tinkle-tinkle-zing" will be with me forever.
As good as ever. A book to skim, laugh at, then put away for another few years/ Not a gud way to lurn to spel.
Advanced. Forthright. Signifficant.
Molesworth, Geoffrey WillansTerms from Down with Skool!, How to be Topp, Whizz for Atomms and Back in the Jug Agane (all published in the 1950s) that seemed vaguely familiar...- Hogwarts- wizard wheezes- Scrimgeour- 'hem hem.'(view spoiler)[I expected this to be a juvenile Flashman.
It's much nicer to think of independent, strong-minded little fifteen-year olds swaggering around, having midnight feasts and planning to rob the National Gallery or whatever.And I still don't know what the fuck 'chiz' means.Some funny quotes:Anyway his favourite charakter is little lord fauntleroy and when i sa he hav a face like a tomato he repli i forgive you molesworth for thoes uncouth words.What is that?
Nigel Molesworth himself would be horrified to see himself described in such a way, but there is something quintessentially English and beautifully vintage about Molesworth’s take on public school life.
Through a series of vignettes, sketches and wild fancies of imagination, Molesworth skewers the regiment and routine of an English public school – taking apart the Masters, the subjects themselves, other pupils and even parents.
One would probably get more out of it if one has been to an English public school (I was state school educated, so The Bash Street Kids will always be closer to my heart), but with the smell of chalk-dust and semolina entwined throughout, this is a pure English classic.
Read: March 1, 2002I recommend this book whenever I get the chance.
It's hard to get a hold of in the US (you have to buy it from AmazonUK, last I checked), but oh, so brilliant!The book (actually four books in one) reads like the journal of a young British schoolboy with a very vivid imagination, a loathing for teachers and schoolwork, and a complete disregard for elementary spelling, grammar, and punctuation.
Geoffrey Willans' delightfully mangled words are matched by the exquisitely cartoonish scribbles of Ronald Searle, illustrating Nigel Molesworth's accounts.
Read it.
I think if I were a 12 year old British boy attending a boarding school I would have found this hilarious. As it is, this was a pain to finish. When it comes to British humor, I think I'll stick with Douglas Adams or PG Wodehouse.
Howling funny book on school life. Every teacher dreads Molesworth and for good reason. Some of the slang is a bit confusing to figure out, but this one is worth it to read. Originally published as four books, and illustrated by Roald Searles.
You can get this book for less than $20, if you live in the U.S. So what are you waiting for? I don't give out five-star evaluations without due consideration. I will have more to say about the genius of "Molesworth" in due course.
I loved Molesworth when I was in my early teens. He's such a prat but so viciously funny with it. Very clever writing.
Ronald Searle was one of Britain’s best-loved cartoonists, and Geoffrey Willans (if I remember correctly) a former teacher.
If there is such a thing as a genius, then Willans and Searle together were one.The Molesworth books purport to be instructional manuals by an English public schoolboy named Nigel Molesworth, about how to survive the school experience.
From the day the first was published in 1953, they became a wild success, especially with schoolchildren.
I first read the Willans/Searle series of Molesworth books when I was in late primary school and at the time I found 'Down With Skool', 'How to be Topp', Whizz for Atomms' and 'Back in Jugg Agane' to be very funny, if a little strange.
The slightly alien world of the setting of the books, a fictional English public school, formed a significant part of the comedy, however the behaviours of the boys (including Molesworth, Molesworth 2, Grabber, Peason and Fotherington-Tomas hello birds hello sky) were all familiar enough to allow some degree of identification.Now, roughly 40 years since I first read these books I find that the Molesworth novels are perhaps a little dated and the quality of the writing is variable through each individual book.
Nostalgia and fun. Superb illustrations by Searle. First read In the Jug Again as a boy. My introduction to satire and I was thrilled. Revisiting it now I wonder how I filtered out all the private school in jokes. Cave!
So funny and dark, the cynical observations had me coming back to this book time and time again!
I bought this to read "Down with Skool" but I don't think that I am going to bother with the rest. I can see how it ended up being a classic, however.
Which is maybe why so many British novels deal with them while Canadian fiction doesn’t.It ranges from older stuff like The Lord of the Flies and it’s marooned school children to something as recent as the Harry Potter series, which is basically about life at boarding school: trouble with headmasters, living in dorms and everyone clad in a uniform, although it’s all sprinkled with magic.Recently I came across a copy of Molesworth, a collection of books by Geoffrey Willans, all of them illustrated by Ronald Searle’s cartoons and picked it up on a whim.
The fourth book in this four-tome anthology is also better than the others, if marginally, since it sees Molesworth allowing himself to have normal interests and do regular-kid things - even if the grammar continues to grate (and no, not in the sense of a 'grate friend', like Peason is to Molesworth 1.)At the end of the day, the success of the 'Molesworth' series is a mystery, at least to this modern-day, non-British reader.
If, like me, you don't, you'd do better to seek out Goscinny's Le Petit Nicolas series for your bratty-1950s-schoolchildren fix.Now if you'll excuse me, I have to go read something else to forget about Molesworth's grammar.1.5/5
I finally did myself a solid and purchased this book for my v.
own cheers cheers it had been such a long time since I read of the exploits of the gorriler of 3B i had wanted to read it agane but no copy was to be obtaned from our local bookmongers lo these many years chiz chiz yar boo sucks.
But now i have a copy in my hot ickle hands much to the astonishment of various weeds and wets.
It maketh me to frolik about saing hullo birds hullo sky which is what the gurlies do but i am a gurlie of corse as any fule kno.
Profuse pages of line sketches make clear how their great importance -- front and back inner double set of "skool" at center of the world, cameos "Know the Enemy or Masters at a Glance" p 30-34, Table of Grips and Tortures for Masters --head blip, ear tweak, hair strand pluck, ruler shave p 50-52, "Parents at a Glance" p 92-94, "Guide to grown-ups" p 346-7, scatter of author Molesworth elder sibling, Molesworth 2 is younger p 210 illustrated with chums and head in "Perlice Notise" p 210-211.
the ruler come down on molesworth's fingers chiz chiz chiz moan moan" p 368.
recommended by Rachel Johnson (Boris's sister)
Molesworth was the first grate* misspeller, before the Internet and Leetspeak.
One downside, though, is after reading Molesworth's misspellings, most anyone else on the Internet seems like an amateur even 60+ years later.Molesworth, the "goriller of 3b," complains about anything and everything, but not seriously.
But it will make you feel better if you don't.Side note: I wouldn't ever have known of Molesworth if it hadn't been for seeing Adrian Mole recommended in some British reading lists and doing some basic research.
Re-read 14/11/13: I was taught at an early age to look after my books. Despite that, my copy of  The Compleet Molesworth  is ink-blotched, dog-eared, filled with unidentifiable stains and tiny fingerprints, and falling apart at the seams. Molesworth was my near constant companion in the 1980's.It's interesting to see GoodReads's 'Readers Also Enjoyed' box in the corner of the book's page. I suspect readers who have not read this book will be unsurprised to see  Just William  there but they may b
Re-read 14/11/13: I was taught at an early age to look after my books.
Molesworth was my near constant companion in the 1980's.It's interesting to see GoodReads's 'Readers Also Enjoyed' box in the corner of the book's page.
I suspect readers who have not read this book will be unsurprised to see 
Cynical and hard-bitten, Molesworth describes the world around him with the world-weary gaze of an adult; with the poor spelling and grammar of the boy bottom of his class.The only sadness for me is reading Tim Rice's introduction to this edition, in which he describes the book as timeless.
Written by Geoffrey Willans and brilliantly illustrated by Ronald Searle, this is a complete collection of the chronicles of 50s public-school life, as seen from the perspective of the inimitable Nigel Molesworth, who makes up in ingenuity what he lacks in spelling. If you enjoyed the 'William' or the 'Jennings and Darbishire' books then you will love this. A hoot.
