https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3611540-flame-and-shadow
Number three. My heart broke for her sadness and pain in this book so much. I wanted to reach through the ink and the fibers, through time, to stroke her fingers or her cheek, to bring her sunshine and bade her to see the light we always see shining through her eyes and faith even in the mentions of pain. So, so beautiful the whole way.
Lovely ChanceO Lovely chance, what can I doTo give my gratefulness to you?You rise between myself an
it felt like someone taking a biopsy of human emotional waves and building them so simply.mostly, it felt like just plain sweet sounding confessions.I will leave you with one of my favorites:Heart Song ( a poem about poetry)"My heart cried like a beaten childCeaselessly all night long;I had to take my own criesAnd thread them into a song.One was a cry at black midnightAnd one when the first cock crew --My heart was like a beaten child,But no one ever knew.Life, you have put me in your debtAnd I must serve you long --But oh, the debt is terribleThat must be paid in song."
I like free-verse poetry.
This collection made me reconsider form.
I enjoyed the pace of these poems.
I even enjoyed the rhyming!
While I enjoyed most of Teasdale’s format choices, her lines could be too long at times.
I especially enjoyed her observations of life—that it is suffering, but beauty makes it worth it.
I found some of the poetry that mused only on nature to be meaningless and repetitive.
It was these poems that made this volume seem simple at times.
Overall, I enjoyed this collection and would like to read more of her work in the future.
Poetry. Usually my blind spot but this selection of poems was very good. Short poems of infinite clarity, finely distilling emotions and experiences. Overall a touch on the depressing side but beautiful. However I would advise avoiding this edition. Poorly laid out with little to no differentiation between the end of one poem and the title of the next and then none to its first line. Also some lines were even in the previous section.
Just the poetry, unadorned with intro or notes. The first few poems are really mannered, but Teasdale hit her stride eventually. Berneis does not Emote, which is nice.
I fell in love with Sara Teasdale when I first read 'Winter Stars'.
All her poems have that effect.It was April when you cameThe first time to me,And my first look in your eyesWas like my first look at the sea.
We have been togetherFour Aprils nowWatching for the greenOn the swaying willow bough;Yet whenever I turnTo your gray eyes over me,It is as though I lookedFor the first time at the sea.My eyes well up everytime I read her poems.
This is amongst my favorite book of poetry and Teasdale, my dearly loved poet.
It ultimately led me to finding this work by Sara Teasdale.Generally, I liked her poems.
It was really cool to see the influence of the times touch the various poems within this work.If her work is reflective of her personality, Sara was so very lonely at times, sick at other times, and heartbroken more than once.
She clearly loved nature and she seemed to write a lot about death.Overall, the poems were pretty good, though the form does get a little monotonous after a while.
I'd recommend this to anyone who would like to enjoy a little poetry with at least one pretty cool sci-fi connection.
I can see why Sara Teasdale was so popular in her time. Her poems run the gamut from light and romance-y to dark and full of death. It's chilling when you realize how many of her poems mention death, considering she committed suicide in 1933.
Sara Teasdale's poetry is, in general, lovely. Her style doesn't seem to vary much from poem to poem, or, indeed, from collection to collection. That sort of spoils it. The use of imagery is lovely, though, and each of her poems read alone is beautiful.
I hate to say it, but her poems start to run together after a while. Still the imagery is beautiful and the prose is heartfelt.
Wow! Just wonderful lyric poetry!
This is one of the later volumes of Sara Teasdale' s beautiful lyric poetry. Sadly, her tormented soul is apparent in several of the works.
Beautiful poems from a Saint Louis born poet.
Like a eulogy for everything
Excerpt fromWhite FogHere in a world without a sky,Without the ground, without the sea,The one unchanging thing is I,Myself remains to comfort me.
