https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5261610-pure-white-and-deadly
I read this book in 1972 when it first came out.
I wish that I had remembered it and stayed away from sugar.
Now i have read it again and i recommend it to anyone who values their health.
Yudkin believed, based on research and observation, that it is sugar not fat which causes coronary artery disease.
His research was ignored in favour of the big anti fat message propagated first by Ancel Keys and then by the US health organisations.
Yudkin shows how Keys research was faulty.
Penguin has reissued the book this year although you can still find and download the pdf version.
Although aspects of Yudkin's work are outdated and the science has come a long way, the central core to his thesis - refined sugar (sucrose) is a poison and we should be working towards limiting it, and not increasing it, in our diets - was visionary.
Sadly, it was a cry that went unheeded, especially in the United States, where not long after this 1972 publication, we began to add exponential amounts of sugar to our diets in the form of High Fructose Corn Syrup.
This is one of the best, most interesting, educational books I have read in a long time.
I have definatly reduced my sugar consumption after reading this book.
I do not believe that there is 1 cause for obesity, and health issues, but too much of anything isn't good.
This book delves into the north american diet, and the amount of sugar we consume, regularly, and how the food industry is increasing it all the time, to improve flavour.
It's not sugar that's causing health problems, diabetes, cholesterol, weight gain, *speaking sarcastically* No!
This is a very interesting book.
Not to long, educational, and a great read!
SmithWe watch Mad Men, and see Betty dropping cigarette ash over her children, and Don lighting up the moment he swings his legs out of bed, and it all seems kind of quaint.
I wonder if in the Mad Men of the future, they'll laugh and be shocked at how we smilingly pushed sweets into the hands of children we didn't even hate.
Well, it turns out that it was "It is the sugar what kills you" hypothesis that was right all along.
first written in the 1970s. mentioned in a speech bu Robert H. Lustig, MD, UCSF Professor of Pediatrics in the Division of Endocrinology, called Sugar: The Bitter Truth (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dBnniu...)
This book is incredible! John Yudkin presents an amazing case against the consumption of sugar and demonstrates quite convincingly that sugar, not fat and cholesterol, is at the root of the heart disease, obesity, and type II diabetes epidemic we are currently facing.Good luck getting a hold of this book. It was very difficult to find.
A Total Five Star Review for a late Scientist who the Sugar Industry slaughtered because they didn't like what he said.
Step away from the sugar bowl now....very interesting and a bit sobering, glad I've not much of a sweet tooth....
It's worse after school when they're tired parents cook up what they think is a natural healthy meal from the freezer section, and adding insult to injury, rarely include a fruit and or vegetable with that meal.Is type II Diabetes a real disease or did we create it by putting sugar, salt, fat and HFCS in our food?
You'll still understand the book and learn why the Sugar Industry has so much power and influence over your food supply and why you cannot stop the madness simply by choosing NOT to eat it.
Again, grandma didn't put much sugar or sweetener in her cooking.
Cook like grandma and stop buying food in bags.
It's not an easy read, but this is a thoroughly remarkable book and one that should be at the top of the reading list for anyone with an interest in what they eat or how the food industry operates.Pure, White and Deadly aroused a furious reaction when it was first published and the sugar industry tried, with some success, to discredit Yudkin and his work, preferring to cast fat as the part of our diets that causes ill-health, obesity, heart disease, etc.
Maybe in a few years sugar will be up there alongside tobacco.
This could be the most important book on nutrition I have ever read and if you plan to read only one on this subject, than look no further.
Despite having a bombastic and somewhat populistic title the contents present a well written view by a researcher who spent his life exploring the effects of sucrose on our bodies.
Sugar produces craving, and craving produces profits for producers.
And in a system where even diseases and suffering can be turned into a profitable business, we are lucky to at least have a few books like these.
This book is out of print and I had to get it via inter-library loan. It is referenced in 'Good Calories, Bad Calories'. It is a compelling read and adds much to my understanding about the perils of consuming table sugar and HFCS (which wasn't available when Yudkin researched and wrote). The information at the end of the book, of Yudkin's clashes with British "Big Sugar" are illuminating. "Big Tobacco" has nothing on "Big Sugar!"
It's amazing to think that this book was first written in 1972. As I read it I couldn't help but feel sorry for the author, as he battled all in sundry to get his message heard, only to be labelled a fruit loop. My how history has served to correct the mistakes of the past. While quite a difficult read, his message is clear and to the point. Absolutely loved it.
50% of the way through this. Lot's of astounding discoveries so far. None too pleasant.
I was impressed that so many decades ago research was being done on the harmful effects of fructose, yet politics and money has kept this from the public.
Way ahead of its time. Way..
Uzun zamandır okuduğum en ilginç kitaplardan biri. Özellikle yazarın konu ile ilgili mücadelelerini anlattığı son bölümü. Şeker ve şeker endüstrisinin durumu, sağlığımıza etkilerini anlatıyor. Kitap 1972 yılında yazılmış, yazıda ileri sürülen çoğu zararlı etki bilimsel olarak kanıtlanmış olmasına rağmen hala konuda herhangi bir gelişme elde edilmemiş olması şeker endüstrisinin gücünü gösteriyor sanırım. Kendiniz ve çocuklarınız için yapacağınız en anlamlı şey ŞEKERİ HAYATINIZDAN ÇIKARTMAK..
Good general info, but dated. I suppose it was pretty accurate at the time of the update.
It's not exactly a huge revelation today, but this book was published in 1972 and then mostly forgotten.
This also means it doesn't cover the rise of high fructose corn syrup, although Yudkin does mention it as a new way of sugar processing.
With the right context, it's interesting to read as a snapshot of health concerns of the 80s and why things only got worse.I came to this book by way of Dr. Robert Lustig who seems to have taken up the anti-sugar crusade where Ludkin stopped.
His interviews and lectures are probably more relevant to today, but this book is still a pretty good piece of popular nutritional science.
Lustig is far more politically minded, and fully understands the nature of the fight against Big Sugar: explicitly comparing it to the fight against the tobacco industry.Yudkin's book is interesting now from an historical perspective, and also because he fills in research around some medical conditions Lustig leaves out - but as I implied above, Lustig creates a very strong and persuasive central argument that ties sugar to the spiralling obesity and metabolic syndrome problems of North America and Europe.
Therefore, I would recommend Fat Chance above Pure White and Deadly.
I can imagine the sugar industry checking out these books and having a massive bonfire.
Yudkin goes into detail on how sucrose has risen steadily in use throughout the World - not just the United States.
He explains how sucrose is produced - and that it once was quite expensive due to how much refinement goes into extracting the substance from sugar cane or beet.
While I don't agree with Yudkin on everything, including some of his dietary advice - he is right on the money on the topic at hand.
This book may be is a little bit dated, but still has a great line: the true behind factual data about sugar.I came to this book by the recommendation Robert Lusting does in his youtube famous conference: "Sugar: The Bitter Truth." You can't image how bad is the sugar for us, the humans.
Yudkin relates what has he found based on experiments on a number of animals (rats, rabbits, etc), he also found not only a casual correlation on how the production of Sugar has on the human diseases, but also the glimpse of causation.
Is it true what Yudkin found?
Dr. John Yudkin was a British physiologist who believed that sugar consumption was closely associated with heart disease and type 2 diabetes.
I believe that Dr. Yudkin was correct in seeing the negative impact sugar was having not only on cavities, weight gain and diabetes but also on heart disease.
I was impressed that he saw all this well before others (this book was published in 1972).
So I had high expectations as I started to read this book.
Unfortunately, I'm not sure what I got from this book which is why I gave it such a low rating and maybe that's why he lost the debate.
Sugar is poison ultimately and needs to be controlled in the food we eat..Processed foods are the worst culprits with many disguises for sugar..all produced into weight gain..however fat per say is not detrimental to health and should be consumed. As it has been for centuries obviously within a balanced diet it actually helps the body in many ways...oiling joints and the gut, skin hair nails..
Another scientific proof how bad is sugar for our bodies. The book was little bit boring on the end, because of huge amounts of scientific explanation (I am amateur in science of nutrition), however, the message is very powerful and we should spread it among our fellows.
Everyone should read this book, which is a well-written treatise by a respected scientist who was skewered by the sugar industry for his views. It is very perceptive and occasionally quite funny. I would have rated it higher if the content were not so dated.
I loved it. I guess I have a thing against tasty white crystals in the diet. I have spent years studying the ill effects of salt and sodium, now for years studying the ill effects of sugar and fructose.Yay me!
This book seems so out dated and I found it a real slog to read so I'm quitting on page 85. I think my chemo-brain can't handle so much science right now and I already know that processed sugar is bad for me.
not an easy read. Yudkin foresaw the obesity epidemic even before the advent of HFCS and was vilified by the scientific community. Unfortunately, I think he is preaching to the converted. The only copy I could get had small print which made it even more difficult for me to read.
Read it.
