https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/751635.The_Skin_I_m_In
One day Char gets into trouble and drags Maleeka so now Maleeka has to work in he office.While working in the office Caleb starts liking her and wants to be her friend but he cant even do that because everybody talks about them and so he stops talking to her and try's too avoid even looking her way so people dont think that they are envolved with eachother.
Wanting (going) to tell her mom but when she gets there she cant even spaek because of the way she feels.To all come down to the end Maleeka is getting fed up with Char.
no one seemed to notice the good things she had going for her like her smarts or her pretty hair and flawless smile her skin got the worse of her most of all for her conspicious attitude.
It ,broke Maleeka's heart when she found out and in the end Maleeka stop being with Char it wasn't worth the headache she returned all her clothes and accessories.Being judged by something artificial is one thing but being judged by something that comes naturally is another, always be yourself and love yourself no matter the flaws that stand in they way.
John-John is being racist to her and singing a song about her "Maleea Maleeka we sure wanna keep her but she is so black we can't see her".Maleeka thinks the new teacher Miss Sunders will make things worse, all the teachers don't like her because she's too pushy.When Maleeka was coming home one night two guys tried to kipnaped her but she scratched one of the guys eyes and bit the others dirty hand and they left her.
She ran home as fast she can then cried all night.This makes me think she has a diffucult life.
Number of Pages: 171Level of Book:YDay I Started Reading It:9-28Day I Finished The Book:9-28Main Characters: Maleeka,Charlese,Ms.Saunders,Caleb,and Makeeka's MomThis book is about a girl named Maleeka who hates the skin shes in(the title makes it obvoius).
Maleeka only supports her becuase of the good clothes Charlese brings her.
Ms.Saunders is proud of Maleeka becuase she noticed it.At the end Maleeka still likes Caleb and chooses her friends wisely.(something like that)The theme of the book is to love yourself no matter how you look, how you dress,if youre rich or poor,etc.
This book helped me becuase I felt kind of insecure about myself.
I learn so much about this book.
What I have learn about this book is that you can't judge people by the book of it's cover.I ready this book when I was in the 3rd grade.
I, Like Maleeka, am a dark-skinned Barbadian.
When I was younger, I was often teased about the complexion of my skin.
After reading this book, I learned to love myself, and accept me for who I am.
Maleeka went through many struggles, but she overcame them.
This book is awsome for anyone around middle-school age, because that's when peer pressure kicks in.
I enjoyed this story so much i gave it to my preteen grand daughter Jayda.
I totally LOVED this book!
The Skin I'm In.......hmmmmm.....No. The Skin I'm In has a great plot.
Good characters, good concept, good life lessons, but is just executed horribly.
THE WHOLE ENTIRE BOOK IS ABOUT THE CHARACTERS NOT THE PLOT!!!!
75% of this book is focusing on the personality of the characters and their minor issues.
Finally, the author starts tying the plot into the story and 10 pages later the book is over.
Ladies and gentleman of goodreads, let me tell you I was not satisified.
Ladies and gentleman of goodreads I persuade you not to read this book, but write a new version of it.
I really liked this book.It's about a black girl try to fend for herself trying to survive all the JERKS!I recommend it to people who get bullied.READ IT!!!!
i think this book was really touching because there are people in real life who have to live like th
I gave this book a rating of 5/5 because I really enjoyed reading it and it was my second time reading it. This book was mostly about Maleeka`s life and how she gets bullied at school. Also she tells the story of how her dad past away in a accident and her mom got in a depression that she wouldn`t even eat or get out of bed into one day she bought a sewing machine and started sewing clothes for Maleeka to wear to school. But Maleeka did not wear it she wore her friends clothes.
I gave this book a rating of 5/5 because I really enjoyed reading it and it was my second time reading it. This book was mostly about Maleeka`s life and how she gets bullied at school. Also she tells the story of how her dad past away in a accident and her mom got in a depression that she wouldn`t even eat or get out of bed into one day she bought a sewing machine and started sewing clothes for Maleeka to wear to school. But Maleeka did not wear it she wore her friends clothes.
The book is about a girl named Maleeka and people in her school bully her about how black she is.She is friends with a girl named Charlise which she gives her clothes( that is the only reason that she is friends with her) is really mean and she is sacred that if she stop being her friend she will beat her up.I like this book a lot because it talks about real thing that happen in peoples life.I recommended this book to person that like book about school drama.
This book is about a girl that was black and every body made fun of her and she got bullied a lot and at the end she became less bullied at school.I liked this book because it tells how the character finds a solution to there problem.I would recommend this book to my friend that got bullied a lot because of his or her color.
If you like depressing beginnings and uplifting endings then The skin I'm In is the book for you.This book is realistic.This book is about a girl named Maleeka who gets picked on everyday about multiple things such as the darkness of her skin or her good grades or her clothing.***SPOILER ALERT*** Maleeka and Miss Saunders start to get along better because they start to see eye to eye, even though Maleeka and char almost burned down Ms.Saunders classroom.
Finding fictional reading material that relates to my students has been difficult.
I teach a classroom of eight, primarily African-American and Hispanic females in a special education, self-contained classroom at an alternative school in Milwaukee, WI.
The bluford series books, while engaging with real issues, are often times seen by my students as a diversion-like a good reality show.
Not only has Flake written a realistic novel about the relationships of pre-teens in middle school, but she has incorporated the experiences, prejudices, etc.
While escaping reality is good for some choices of non-fiction, confronting it often provides more insight into our own lives.
Maleeka wants everyone to stop making fun of her but then she realize what the skin she is in so she doesn't care what they all say about her because she loves her skin.
Next they get a new teacher and she got a white burn on her face that all the kids can't stop looking at even Maleeka, but she doesn't judge her because she knows that she feels the same way.
My favorite part in the book is when Maleeka doesn't care what the kids say about her because knowing that she loves her skin is the best thing i like about.
What i learned from this book is that a girl that names Maleeka Madison goes to McClenton middle sch
I started reading this book because it is a new option to teach for our low level readers at my school.
However, I would recommend this book to any of my young readers.
She deals with being made fun of for her rich black skin every day by other students in her school.
The book follows Maleeka's relationship with a new teacher who also struggled with feeling great in the skin she's in.
Perhaps with upper level students you could use this book as a jumping off place for other books that deal with self image issues.
The Skin I'm In is a book about a middle school girl named Maleeka Madison who is teased because of her dark skin complexion.
Her mom is a single mom who makes her clothes so Maleeka gets a girl named Char to bring her clothes to change into.
Even though she is mistreated by her classmates and her friends, the person she most hates is her teacher Miss Saunders.
Maleeka has to finally make a decision that may shape her life forever.I truly recommend this book to any student who has felt different.
This book is about a girl who is trying to let people see her for who she is, not the color of her skin.
She is changing a lot about herself, and she isn't doing it for herself.
She learns not to change for no one, only herself.I can make a text to self connection with her insecurities.
I know how it feels like, kind of like you want to hide your face.
I would rate this book a 5 because I could relate to the girl and her feelings of everyone judging her.
It made me feel like I want the only one that went through that.
Maleeka Madision, the main character and narrator if the book the Skin Im In tells a story about her life and how she has low self-esteem.
In the beginning off the book and everyday school she would have to face obstacles off people humiliating her and bullying get until one day she had enough.
Regardless of all the bullying she has gone threw she rises to the top by telling herself everyday that she is beautiful and she appericates what God has gave her.
This book is excellent for kids that have low self-esteem and don't have faith in themselves.
I Really Liked this Book because it Talked about How A Girl Named Maleeka got Teased about how she dressed and the fact that she was black.
She gets herbed by Char , Does her homework so Char can Lend Her clothes.
Maleeka Changed alot at the end because she stood up for herself and i think that was right for her to do that.
John-John Bullied her alot and Sang her songs about how black she was.
I Think that the purpose of this book was to Inform you about how you shouldnt be Bullied by other people and Stand up for youself.
Its about a girl named Maleeka who doesn't like the way she looks.
She is a very self concious in many ways such as she has dark skin and doesn't like the way that she dressess espically because she has to wear home made choltes in order to save her family money.
One day she finds herself in a situation that tells you your ture friends and those that are fake.
This situation takes her through deep emotions that helps her work through but also lets her reedeem herself and there is even a surprise for her in the end.
This has to be one of the best books I've read in a long time.
So much drama conveyed with so few words.
I'm working with a group of young people now and they are reading and finding the book riveting.
This book is about jealousy, loss, remembrance, love, bullying, beauty -- all the things that we have experienced but told in such a voice that the word almost sing off the pages.Teens will especially like this and I do understand it was written for YA audience.
Kids I'm working with would love to see this as a movie.
Scholars chose this book to compliment "Othello" and themes of Othering, or objectifying and demeaning another in order to feel superior or to abuse that other race, religion, sex or class. This, like "A Child Called It", by David Pelzer, is an essential read for young and old alike. Pelzer's sequels are "The Lost Boy" and "A Man Named Dave".Flake, like Walter Dean Myers, has a knack for bringing realistic characters to life in everyday conflicts while struggling with deeper issues of self-esteem, finding one's skills and learning to stand up and be heard.
I really liked it, I hope that never happens to someone because it is really hurtful. I recommend it to people who are having almost the same experience as her because I learned that you should tell the truth even if someone told you not to and to not be shy.Even though I thought it used powerful and mean words.It was about this poor girl who her parent had died and everyone made fun of how she looked like and what she wore.
I like this book a lot because this is happening in a lot of schools and you can tell that it's based on a true story. This book is about a high school that has a lot of crazy girls that do all these things so that they won't get bullied. This girl wanted to hang out with them so that she won't get bullied. I recommend this book to girls that have been bullied or that are in this situation.
I thought that the book was very good it was a good story about Maleeka and her life. It was a nice story about how everyone was very mean to her and at the end of the book everyone kind of respected her and her color. I also liked that Maleeka would stand up for herself and wouldn't let anyone bring her down.She was strong.:)
This was such a wonderful book with a great message. Always think for yourself and never let anyone influence your better judment.I think this book should be required readin for every middle school student.
Flake tells a riveting, emotional roller coaster of a story. The Skin I'm In delivers a positive message in an appealing package. You will find yourself fighting for every character. I would recommend this book to any student who likes realistic, character-driven stories.
