https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/348946.Wild_Geese
There are beautiful, captivating moments within this all-too common story of immigrant life on the Manitoba prairie but they are far too infrequent to leave you with a sense of satisfaction from something well-told.
While Martha Ostenso won a prize for this (a princely $13,500 in 1925!) it appears that she may have been more than a little bit disingenuous about its authenticity, for she had it "edited" by her mentor (later lover, and finally husband), Douglas Durkin, English professor at University of Manitoba and a professional writer in his own right.
Whenever I ask someone if they'd heard of it, the answer is always no.
It was truly wonderfully realistic and beatifully written.
Her use of metaphors and similes was so original that I was able to visualize the landscapes as if I was watching a movie.
The imagery was stunning.
I love many of her lines in the book, but one in particular stood out for me: "The dank, clinging smell of newly turned soil rose like a presence." Martha Ostenso has a special way with words; one that makes you smile while reading.It was a story of tyranny, love, jealousy and most of all, the haunting call of the Wild Geese.
Not one to be overlooked!
Caleb Gare has been added to my list of cruel and evil characters, and his evil is less cartoonish than that of many (e.g. Quilp from The Old Curiosity Shop).
He uses psychological manipulation and blackmail to turn his children into slaves and his neighbours into his pawns.There's a lot of sexual energy infusing the narrative: Caleb's need for domination, Amelia's passionate memory for Mark Jordan's father, Lind's attraction to both Mark and Judith (the first romantic, the second on more of a physical level), Judith's mere animal presence and character that expresses itself not only in a desire for Sven, but an admiration for Lind, and a desperate need to escape her father's tyranny.
I read about Wild Geese on my friend, Melanie's blog (roughingitinthebooks.ca) and she gifted me copy which sat on my bookshelf for 5 (6?) years until she wrote about it again here: http://www.roughingitinthebooks.ca/?p...
Wild Geese is a story about isolation, and after I finished it I realized I read the entire thing believing it was set in Alberta.
Such a great read, and it really does have all the feels.I will be genuinely surprised if some rando cavalier film maker doesn't the film rights to it.
Thinking of this book reminds me of the summer of 2004, when I was living by myself in Hamilton and (among other things) taking a summer course in Can Lit. I was a bit underwhelmed by the prof, but the classically Canadian feeling of vague dispair of this book stays with me.
It is a novel that portrays the psyches of Caleb Gare and his daughter Judith and the inevitable conflict between them.Caleb Gare is a man who is incapable of feeling anything for anybody but himself.
Judith escapes from him with her lover Sven and the remainder of the family is released from his psychological bondage.“Wild Geese” is a novel of conflict within a family.
In the end the child escapes and the parent is destroyed.
It is a novel that touches the inner emotions of the reader by exploring psychological conflicts that the reader has gone through.
The narrator, the fluid, moving voice that invades the head of every character we meet, knows he will ultimately fail and drops hints of this throughout the story.
What the narrating voice of the novel knows that she doesn't is the certainty of Caleb's demise.
That is all that is enough, she has told you."After Lind's visit to the Bjarnnasson's, she (as well as the reader) has a dubious belief that Mark will never discover his own secret, just as Lind will also never know it.
When Caleb eventually dies, there seems to have been no other possible way to end the story.
Caleb Gare is a cruel tyrant who wields the secret of his wife Amelia’s illegitimate child over her, and indirectly over their children.
Caleb only cares for the land and his precious field of flax.
Caleb Gare does not limit his tyranny to his family; he is also not above blackmailing neighbours who own land which he desires.
The novel opens with the arrival of a pretty new teacher, Lind Archer, who will board with the Gares.
Lind befriends Judith, and also meets and falls in love with Mark Jordan, who has arrived from the city to run the farm of a seriously ill neighbour.
She's desperate to tell you about the symbolism here, instead of allowing the reader to make of the story's metaphors and themes itself.
Ellen, more feminine and fragile, refuses to pursue her heart's desires, while Judith, lauded as muscular, beast-like, ends up in the most feminized position possible.
Martha's at her best with these multifaceted characters and an endearing enticing story, even the minor characters have worthwhile layers.
Nevertheless, I'm always enticed by a good romantic story, and even this gothic romance-like novel suited those interests.
I found this book in the travel guide under Great Canadian Reads.
Not only did the author’s description of the farms and the surrounding countryside take me there, but her characters were real and I felt their struggles too.
I also have to say that I have never wished for the death of a character in a story as much as I did for the farmer/father/antagonist Caleb Gare.
None of the characters mentioned homicidal thoughts, but it came through in the story.
I was cheering on Lind, the new school teacher, in her encouragement of Judith and the rest of the family’s escape from his tyranny.
to look into/to hunt down/look at reviews
Did NOT expect such a great book when I picked this up at a local library!
Neither did I expect to find out later that its considered a classic Canadian novel that broke new ground with its printing.
Ostenso's writing truly brings you from the tight, closed in feeling of the Gare children, to the open freedom of Lind Archer's newfound love with Mark Jordan.Almost from the first page, you learn to despise the patriarch and you can't wait until the final pages when he gets what he deserves, so to speak.
It reads like a modern novel, however, with an amazing use of language to create atmosphere, characters who are so real they seem to walk off the page, and a plot that grabbed me and wouldn't let me go.
It deals with modern issues like spousal abuse, parental abuse, bullying, greed, and love.
Underlying it all is a strong sense of sensuality and repressed sexuality.
The environment carries a sense of danger and foreboding as well as fecundity and growth.
A strong book that made me think and feel.
It's a book that almost screams for an eco-feminist-Marxist reading, making it surprisingly pertinent to times in which insecure misogynists gas-light women and do every kind of outrage for more money.Probably because of the prairie setting and bold character of Judith reminiscent of Hagar in The Stone Angel, this book kept reminding me of Margaret Laurence.
Actually, Laurence is a later CanLit treasure, perhaps influenced by Ostenso.
Ultimately, I think Laurence is a little more subtle and less "novelistic," so in comparison I would give this a 4.5 rating, but Wild Geese is a reminder of why I love literature and analysis.
Set in Northern Manitoba (a place I’ve never been to), on a farm (a place I’ve never worked), Wild Geese is like a window into a life I’ve only imagined.
The descriptions of neverending farm life and the language the characters use, breathe life into the story which centers around the prosperous Gare family.
The prosperity is tightly controlled by the farm’s patriarc, Caleb, and so is the family secret.
Recommended for those who like female heroines, thrilling family secrets, and a story of people trying their hardest to follow their dreams no matter what.
Overall, I didn't mind this book.
I thought it was very slow moving at the beginning though which if I didn't have to finish this book for school.
I might not have finished but about half way in it got better.
I also thought at the beginning it was a struggle to figure out all the characters as there is quite a few in this book and most of the books I read there is only a few main characters.
So I really didn't mind the book after finally finsihing it.
"Judith returned to the inner room while the others still stood and talked with Amelia.
She suddenly felt faint from the suppressed excitement of getting ready.
And the knowledge that Amelia had guessed the truth about her bored dully into her brain.
They were not fine enough to know.
They would denounce her for the thing she regarded with pride.
They were muddled, confused souls, not daring to live honestly.
Living only for the earth, and the product of the soil, they were meagre and warped.
She had not wanted them to know." (283)
She had not wanted them to know." (283)
Omg I can't believe I read this book so quickly!
I guess that's what happens when you are stuck at the lake for 3 rainy days with nothing else to do!
I suppose I could say that I did like this book.
However, most of the time I spent reading it, I was completely frustrated by the character of Caleb Gare and almost equally as frustrated at the rest of the characters in the novel.
I was angry at his manipulation and sneakiness and felt so sorry for his entire family AND neighbours.
And I have to say that I am glad I am finished reading this book...
So I was forced to read this for my Can. English Lit class.
I hate being forced to read something and usually never really read it word for word, but with this book I did.
It was hard to put down when things were getting heated up at the end.
The father is such an ass that I couldn't wait to see what he did next or see what the family members might do to him.
Although the book is written poorly, the story was great, the description of the prairies made me miss my family farm, and I enjoyed the end immensely.
One of those Canadian classics I was expecting to dislike, but it was actually a bit more subtle than I was expecting (not by much though) and I enjoyed it. The story kept heading in the direction of sustaining too much tension while being too boring, but somehow it kept taut enough that although I couldn’t wait for that tension to release, I stayed interested. Not something I would recommend to anyone unless they were really into Thomas Hardy. It’s that kind of book. And I used to love me some Thomas Hardy.
This novel is very forgetable. No character is very interesting and the oppression that occurs in the story is delivered in a sub-par way. The ending is also something that I found to be a little silly and mediocre at best. For a novel that strives to be verisimilar through its emphasis on emotional and mental abuse, I thought that the author could have done a better job unpacking the minute details in a more effective way.
Written in 1925, this book was about the hard living on a prairie in the early half of the 20th century in Canada.The children in the family are tied to the farm by the father who wants to enlarge the farm and enrich himself without regard to the children's ambitions or desires.I liked the description of the area and of the mores of the times which were extremely restrictive for women.An interesting read that I understand is considered a classic in Canada.
I can't think of a book in recent memory that has quite moved me the way this one did. Freedom versus bondage. Romance versus sterility. Love versus hate. Growth versus stagnation. I would recommend this book to anyone who is not sure if they can love and/or be entertained by Canadian literature. Trust me. It can be lovable, and enrapturing and epic and enduring.
I liked this book. It was interesting to get into the mind-set of these immigrants in the northern prairies. It's really a study of human nature, people living under the literal tyranny of patriarchy, social mores to do with "courting" and illegitimate births. Caleb Gare gets what he deserves, thank goodness.
Perhaps nothing is as satisfying as watching a truly horrible person get what’s coming to him. Parts of this don’t hold the same weight I imagine they once did (illegitimate children! Life-ending shame and horror!) but other parts certainly do.
Required university reading. This novel provided great in site into the rural Manitoban 1920s lifestyle and the characters were reasonably compelling. My distaste lies in my own need for escapism, and a realistic novel bores me.
This is one of those classic bits of literature that should not be read by anyone other than a consenting adult. Oh the caressing of the flax and the jerktitude that occurs in this book. Bleh. Definitely not something to make teenagers read.
Wonderful book. Written in 1925 and was a bit of a scandal at the time although the book won awards. Based in Manitoba farming community. It has illicit sex, hints of lesbianism, and human isolation. Great read. Would recommend it to anyone. 1925 was also the year my mother was born.
Very much enjoyed this. Was suspenseful, beautiful descriptions of the prairies and the dynamic of Lind and Mark vs the Gares was such skillful writing. This is a Canadian classic that needs more publicity.
I hated this book until I watched the movie. Then I realized that Canadian cinema sucks ass and the book wasn't half bad.
