https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/400361.The_Pumpkin_Eater
Mortimer writes in rather a sparse way leaving the reader to do some of the work, making one feel much more involved in the main character’s disintegration.
She is on her fourth marriage and has numerous children (eight I think) and would like another one (her husband doesn’t).
Her husband Jake is a successful screenwriter and they have been married for over ten years.
Her relationship with her third husband, the barrister John Mortimer, was notoriously turbulent.The description of disintegration, depression, a pretty much enforced abortion and sterilisation, a complete loss of role and reason to exist are powerfully written.
Penelope Mortimer’s 1962 semi-autobiographical novel, The Pumpkin Eater, was pretty decent.
The commentary on the complexities of marriage is compelling and the glimpses into her own marriage to the playwright John Mortimer (“Jake” in the book) are interesting too in a gossipy way - like Jake, John knocked up an actress during his marriage to Penelope and she writes through her devastation at being betrayed.
You can sense the stirrings of feminism in the book as Mortimer notes how women are condescendingly talked down to and treated in general, though it’s not an overtly political text, just a wry snapshot of 1950s society.
Penelope Mortimer’s The Pumpkin Eater was alright – it’s accessible, well-written, thoughtful, and occasionally interesting.
Quite a hard book to read, and it's perfectly logical that the author really did struggle with depression, insecurity and anxiety. The way she speaks is relatable to anyone who has felt that way (myself included). The worries, the anger, the stress she feels is all familiar. I can't say I enjoyed the book but I understood it, and maybe that's better.
Most people, absurdly, stop there, giving a picture of a vapid housewife who is too dumb to stop reproducing, too dependent to leave her cheating husband, too hysterical to gain control of her life.Of course, most people are idiots.I, being (I think) rather less than an idiot, will start this review by talking about the quality of Penelope's writing.
Watching her get there is riveting; seeing her grow teeth, as it were, and reclaim control of her life, is harrowing and hopeful both.***pre-read: I'm beginning to suspect that while I'm asleep my books are multiplying among themselves like jackrabbits.
Heartbreaking. One of the best final chapters of a book from recent memory.I would like to think myself a champion for all things feminism - but this book has me feeling down about my maleness.More Mortimer needs to be reprinted - I will definitely be seeking out her other books. Thanks to Proustitute for the recommendation.
But I don’t get it.The patently autobiographical female protagonist in this novel marries, serially, and has children.
She has no gumption; just a constant fog.The story was modeled on the author’s own life, complete with many husbands, many children, drinking, a suicide attempt.
She made a cuckold of one husband, and infamously so.So I don’t understand how The Pumpkin Eater is some bellringer for the Feminist movement.
Just a story about a woman who keeps having babies she doesn’t appear to want, and whose life is out of control.
At least NYRB-Classics chose, as it usually does, a great cover, with Susan Bower’s Downhill in a Pram hiding behind the title:
l'altra non ha spigoli vivi, e anzi si lascia scivolare nel buio oltre la siepe ordinata, si annichilisce di un amore oblativo per il marito, fino a rimanerne svuotata.questo romanzo del 1962 è costruito sulla sofferenza e la illogica, contraddittoria, lucidità di una donna che racconta in prima persona il proprio disagio emotivo.
e allo sgretolarsi carsico che a volte si insinua sotto la crosta di un matrimonio proprio quando, a rendere la vita apparentemente più facile, arrivano le sicurezze e gli agi del tutto-compreso.d'altra parte nel caso di penelope mortimer l'infelicità e la depressione non collimano banalmente con la vita della casalinga disperata.
When Mrs. Armitage was a child her mother kept a wool drawer in the dining room chest consisting of nothing but leftover knitting scraps.
Mrs. Armitage likened it to the way " they make prisoners dig holes and fill them up again." Her psychiatrist offered  "she would like to be something useful...
All her life, she has been surrounded by people -- parents, friends, one husband leading to another, a battalion of children following suit--yet Mrs. Armitage still finds herself trapped and inwardly alone.Downward spiraling and yet hiding in plain sight, she escapes her domestic imprisonment and seeks answers by digging through her own emotional scrap drawer.
Dentro questa storia c'è un passato ricco di segni, ci sono i dialoghi incontrovertibili, gli stili marcati e la lotta contro lo scorrere del tempo: ecco che nasce una scrittura veloce, fonte di catarsi su diversi piani.
Questa donna inesauribile ha dentro di sé una paura remota, che proviene da un luogo irraggiungibile e con questa angoscia cerca tutta la vita di fare i conti.
Penelope Mortimer ne racconta con ironia i traumi e le relazioni affettive irrisolte, le contraddizioni tra aspirazioni e rinunce, in un'analisi della fragilità che coinvolge intensamente, esprimendo in un percorso toccante un'originale forma di intimità letteraria.
I read praises for this book that call it "darkly funny." Yeah, there's plenty of levity, but it just kinda gets lost in the sea of sadness that living this woman's life must actually entail when you're looking at it plainly, not hearing it told by her.
The protagonist's father sleeps with her teenaged friend; the protagonist has her own (albeit, sexless) tryst with a much older married man; the woman with whom the Screenwriter cheats has a husband who berates her constantly and wants her to suffer for having slept with the Screenwriter.
“Peter, Peter pumpkin eater,Had a wife but couldn't keep her;He put her in a pumpkin shellAnd there he kept her very well.” It would be only fair to begin with this seemingly innocent poem which, on reading carefully, won’t seem all that innocent. The harsh aspect of this poem is not that He put her in a pumpkin shell but, to intend that he kept her very well in a shell. Well, it is not all that fair to draw conclusions from a children’s poem whose meaning increases our curiosity. Perhaps, perh
When she sits listlessly, smoking a cigarette and watching her kids play with their nanny, she feels that her life is no different than that of the fly on the window pane looking bemusedly at all the inanimate objects.
Life seems interminable after smoking every cigarette; and inquisitive.
She has a life; maybe not her own.There are too many children already, they say.
Mortimer’s poignant writing offers an unaccountable reality of an otherwise normal story and leaves us with the same question "Was she really kept well?".
Quelle increspature superficiali, quei lampi di consapevolezza, ironia e disillusione non arrivano mai a essere cavalloni di tempesta, che invece ci aspetteremmo visto quello che le accade, ma si fanno più intensi in un finale che, al di là di qualche elemento grottesco, rivela l'amore per l'ultimo marito per il quale la donna ha scelto, forse vanamente, una strada di realizzazione personale diversa da quella della maternità.
A beautifully written story of one woman's descent into madness.A gripping book which is utterly com
It is a wonderfully vivid and harrowing novella in equal measure, which charts an emotional breakdown, and was published a year before Sylvia Plath's seminal The Bell Jar. The Pumpkin Eater is heavily autobiographical, with its markedly realistic scenes and character development throughout.One is immediately pulled in to this important book.
His shouts delighted me.' Jake makes her feel like a burden, essentially, and the affair which he conducts with a much younger woman only serves to exacerbate the crisis which she feels.The entirety of The Pumpkin Eater is told from the sometimes unbridled perspective of our narrator.
The woman (just realised - don't think she is named, just goes by 'Mrs Armitage') is depressed, going to therapy and taking pills and hoping that the big glass tower that her rich husband is building her will mean that they will all live happily ever after.
It reminded me a little of The Bell Jar and The Dud Avocado, but it's less 'joyful' (?) and hopeful than those, and I guess it's more the writing style that is similar.
Quite an odd book, but I really enjoyed it. If you love dark comedy or classics, I'd definitely recommend this one.
Penelope Mortimer’s The Pumpkin Eater is a brilliant book, and I am not surprised to find from GoodReads that it has been reissued as a classic by NYRB.
(The copy up here is a well-loved Penguin from 1979.) Published in 1962, The Pumpkin-Eater pre-dates all the feminist writing that was so exhilarating to read as the sixties progressed, but I knew Mortimer’s name because I’ve read something of hers before.
She has already been married and has several children (with one exception they are an amorphous bunch) and he just seems to find the idea of being a part of this ready-made family an appealing idea, as long as nothing much is expected of him, especially not fidelity.
The nameless narrator seems to have every aspect of her life permanently out of focus and can never fully comprehend what role she might play in the lives of her children or husband.
She is, however, a very convincing presence in the book and both she and the story gain in gravity as it nears the end (a long quotation from John Donne is very well used).
I only know that whether I'm good or bad, whether I'm a bitch or not, whether I'm strong or weak or contemptible or a bloody martyr - I mean whether I'm fat or thin, tall or short, because I don't know - I want to be happy.
I want to find a way to be happy, I don't care what it is.""Try and fool yourself.
Run about the place for a while saying you don't know who you are or what you're like or what you want.
This book was amazing.Much is put in place using dialogue, but this is not the dialogue of a Gaddis or a Compton-Burnett.
They use their dialogue to get at abstract ideas, to worry over a problem of some kind, or, in the case of Gaddis, to make something that is built entirely from language itself.This dialogue does not leave you lost in time and space; even when unattributed and unmarked, the movements from person to person, from period to period are clear and easy to follow.
What can I say about this text? well written book about domestic unbliss, the unamed lead character can't seem to have sex without having a child pop out. Is this text like Virginia Woolf's Mrs Dalloway where you reading the character's thoughts back and forth but not really because you really only read unamed narrator's thoughts so I can't write a proper review because I can't really go into a detail report. I know I want to read this text again. P.S. The 1960's film with the same name as the book is not bad either.

Not a single pumpkin was eaten.
In this novel Mortimer has reproduced something of her own tumultuous marriage, and there are other painful episodes in the novel which come from life too.We only ever know our narrator as Mrs Armitage, the doctor – to whom she is talking about the wool drawer that her mother had had years before – calls her this, and we never do learn her first name.
Whatever else was happening in her private life, Penelope Mortimer had her own professional and creative life – Mrs Armitage has never been more than a wife and mother.
Mrs Armitage proudly tells the doctor about the tower.
Reading it now, however, it has become a work of merely historical curiosity, describing how a woman could become trapped into a life of domesticity, depression and isolation, eventually sidelined as her family needs her less and less.
Nevertheless, I know there are people who fall into this trap even now.
So at first sight, this is a book about repression of women, but in actual fact, it is far more a tale of depression and lack of self-worth.
Clearly very personal, but incredibly complicated as well.
The power comes from the honesty and brutality of this book.
No holds barred for this woman who is really struggling to be a wife, mother, love, person.
I'm wary as the next man of over-sentimental, over-dramatic, over-personal semi-autobiographical novels, but this one is funny and upsetting at the same time, which says to how well it is written.
I found the ending in particular very powerful.
More than a feminist manifesto, although it deserves to rank with the best feminist fiction, this is a story about relationships and love, and how difficult it is to keep one's own identity within a long-term relationship, especially for women historically.
I picked this up at the library on a whim and I'm so glad I did. A brutal, raw account of the breakdown of the main character and aftermath, based on Mortimer's own life. The emotional cruelty and manipulation between the characters is breathtaking, and powerfully written. The dialogue sections are particularly impressive - what is said is short and sparse, but the reader feels the weight of what is left unsaid. I can't write a review that does this book justice and urge everyone to read it.
Esta entre 3,5 y 4 estrellas sigo en duda ...No se como explicar este libro por que está prácticamente basado en la vida de la escritora. El estilo de la escritura es ágil, no es denso,es apasionante, profundo y personal pero el final del libro me dejo como WTF ??? .. Tiene que a ver un epílogo o algo por favorrrr... Pero Nooo, no había :( . La protagonista me recordó de cierta manera a Amy de Gone Girl, me pregunto si Flynn leyó alguna vez este libro jummm
Un libro interesante, de personajes complejos y reales (la autora se inspiró en ella misma y su vida), que te hace pensar por qué la gente es como es y hace lo que hace. Me ha gustado y creo que la protagonista es un gran personaje, muy bien escrito y descrito, con el que es fácil empatizar y sentirse identificado.
Must read. Masterpiece. Amo a Penelope Mortimer. Es una divertidísima brújula existencial. Leedla. La adoraréis.
