https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60321.A_Few_Figs_from_Thistles
Her life and writings were concentrated in the first half of the 20th century, her primary literary output having been plays and poetry.
Her life and work were considered at the time to be creative, unconventional, brash, perceptive, and often flippant, all consistent with the literary scene in which she thrived.
Most of the poems contained herein are short, often of just a few lines, and many are deep enough to reward multiple readings, each return suggesting depths and nuances at first missed or not considered.

A short collection only 15 pages long, this is a nice way to familiarize yourself with Edna St. Vincent Millay if you are not yet acquainted with her work.
These poems are playful, lighthearted, intelligent, and at times mischievous.
Millay clearly shows her intent to live life to the fullest even in cases where convention might dictate otherwise for a woman of her time, or even now.
Upon completion I instantly craved more and have since ordered her Collected Poems.
The PhilosopherAnd what are you that, wanting youI should be kept awakeAs many nights as there are daysWith weeping for your sake?And what are you that, missing you,As many days as crawlI should be listening to the windAnd looking at the wall?I know a man that's a braver manAnd twenty men as kind,And what are you, that you should beThe one man in my mind?Yet women's ways are witless ways,As any sage will tell,--And what am I, that I should loveSo wisely and so well?
It had no dust jacket, but otherwise was in good shape.
A sweet, slim volume.
Oh, and I got to meet the eponymous black dog, who was also very sweet: an English lab named Sophie.)
She has no compunction at mentioning she cried about a male lover or in including trivial and funny verses too: allowing herself freer thinking than many feminist writers of the later twentieth century.The over-obvious rhymes sometimes found Renascence and Other Poems, are almost gone in this second collection.Here is laughter and heartbreak and archness all in one tiny collection.
I very much want a Collected Works now but that will just have to wait as I am trying not to buy any books in June and maybe even longer (unless there were some exceptionally good reason - wanting one a lot whilst being up to reading many other things I have around me does not count).
IVI shall forget you presently, my dear,So make the most of this, your little day,Your little month, your little half a year,Ere I forget, or die, or move away,And we are done forever; by and byI shall forget you, as I said, but now,If you entreat me with your loveliest lieI will protest you with my favorite vow.I would indeed that love were longer-lived,And oaths were not so brittle as they are,But so it is, and nature has contrivedTo struggle on without a break thus far —Whether or not we find what we are seekingIs idle, biologically speaking.:)
"We were very tired, we were very merry−−We had gone back and forth all night on the ferry;And you ate an apple, and I ate a pear,From a dozen of each we had bought somewhere;And the sky went wan, and the wind came cold,And the sun rose dripping, a bucketful of gold." সুনদর এবং সুখপাঠয লেখা ; Millay'র লেখা পরথমবার পড়লাম; সমভবত এঁর বাকি লেখাগুলাও পড়ে ফেলতে হবে। ছনদের চমৎকার খেলা জানে! (যদিও ছনদ আমি ভাল বুঝি না পড়তে ভাল লাগছে; ছড়া পড়ার মত আননদ আছে :3 )
"We were very tired, we were very merry−−We had gone back and forth all night on the ferry;And you ate an apple, and I ate a pear,From a dozen of each we had bought somewhere;And the sky went wan, and the wind came cold,And the sun rose dripping, a bucketful of gold." সুন্দর এবং সুখপাঠ্য লেখা ; Millay'র লেখা প্রথমবার পড়লাম; সম্ভবত এঁর বাকি লেখাগুলাও পড়ে ফেলতে হবে। ছন্দের চমৎকার খেলা জানে! (যদিও ছন্দ আমি ভাল বুঝি না পড়তে ভাল লাগছে; ছড়া পড়ার মত আনন্দ আছে :3 )
A lovely book of poems. I managed to find a hardcover 1922 printing which is also wonderful. One of my favorite verses from "The Penitent": So up I got in angerAnd took a book I had, And put a ribbon in my hair To please a passing lad. And, "one thing there's no getting by-I've been a wicked girl," said I; "But if I can't be sorry, why, I might as well be glad!"
I choose "A Second Fig" as my favorite poem of the book. Quoted here in its entirety: "Safe upon the solid rock the ugly houses stand/ Come and see my shining palace built upon the sand!" I've always believed that if I had to choose between safety and a life of uncertainty I would choose the latter, knowing that even if I made more mistakes I would have more opportunities for growth.
I was lucky to have heard a voice recording of Edna reading these out loud years ago so whenever I re read them I can hear her in my head which is wonderful.I don't read an awful lot of poetry and I don't really know why because when I do I love it so much.Her style is eloquent, joyful, mischievous, and just completely delightful. This collection contains some of my favorites.
2016 update: When my brain is in the mood for verse, nothing but verse will do.

To read the printed versions, I enjoyed the longer sonnets, but the audio recordings of 'Recuerdo', 'The Penitent', and 'The Philosopher' were delightful to my ears and tickled my heart.Here's one of her four sonnets:I SHALL forget you presently, my dear,So make the most of this, your little day,Your little month, your little half a year,Ere I forget, or die, or move away,And we are done forever; by and byI shall forget you, as I said, but now,If you entreat me with your loveliest lieI will protest you with my favourite vow.I would indeed that love were longer-lived,And oaths were not so brittle as they are,But so it is, and nature has contrivedTo struggle on without a break thus far, --Whether or not we find what we are seekingIs idle, biologically speaking.
This slim book is Millay’s second collection of poems.
It has two sections; the first contains 19 brief poems, the second four thematically-related sonnets.
The unity of theme extends to the poem in the first section as well.
Taken together, they depict the persona of a young woman confident of her power to attract and abashed in her determination to sample life to the full.
At the same time, the much-quoted four-liner that opens the collection—the first “fig”—makes clear that she is aware that such a life comes only with a cost.In their own way, these poems are as impressive as those in her first collection, Renascence, although generally more playful and assertive.
Edna St. Vincent Millay was a woman way ahead of the time. She was rather dangerously willful, a free spirit who was a feminist long before the term was popularized. This brief collection of poems from the early twenties presents a woman comfortable with herself and her decisions. A few of my favorites: "To the Not Impossible Him"  " Grown-up" and "The Penitant."This ebook is available for free from Project Gutenberg.
First Fig My candle burns at both ends; It will not last the night; But ah, my foes, and oh, my friends- It gives a lovely light!
Delightful, heart-wrenching, occasionally humorous, quick. Highly recommend for a rainy afternoon, if you want to savor.
Edna St. Vincent Millay is a genius and a savage beast
Even when I wasn’t a fan of poetry I was a fan of Edna St. Vincent Millay.
She suits a very particular taste.
Her poetry is sometimes jagged, it doesn’t flow off the tongue, but it’s still beautiful in its cacophony if syllables.
It’s always very honest too, sometimes brutally so.
Sometimes she makes you see the beauty in nature, and sometimes she evokes the beauty of sadness, either way if you enjoy her poetry you’ll want to hug the book to your chest at the end of each sonnet.
Brief, merry poems on love and leaving from the roaring twenties. This poem is one of the best, and characteristic of Millay: TO THE NOT IMPOSSIBLE HIMHOW shall I know, unless I go  To Cairo and Cathay,Whether or not this blessed spot  Is blest in every way?Now it may be, the flower for me  Is this beneath my nose;How shall I tell, unless I smell  The Carthaginian rose?The fabric of my faithful love  No power shall dim or ravelWhilst I stay here,–but oh, my dear  If I should ever travel!
I have mixed feelings about this particular book of poetry On the one hand I think Edna st Vincent Millay is generally a great poet and has dealt with very interesting themes and ideas on love and romance and feminism On the other hand her style sometimes felt too studied and boring, more poetry and less humanStill over all it was a good read
I wasn't all that much of a fan honestly, and had to push myself through the second half of this one which surprised me. But I've been on a massive kick of reading poetry pieces since Sara's books last week. Maybe something more next week.
Safe upon the solid rock the ugly houses stand:Come and see my shining palace built upon the sand!Lovely to read; by turns stark and sly, dreamy and mischievous. (The rhyming feels a little outdated.)
First, it took very short time to read, even though you can be in the comprehending process...then, her style full of irony,sorrow and that bittersweetness for that I can say she's on my very dearest poets List. Here you go Edna!
Edna St. Vincent Millay has a truly wonderful talent of using simple language to create beautiful imagery and wonderful verse.My favourites from this where Second Fig, The Penitent & Recuerdo!Simply brilliant!
Brewed a cup of coffee and sat down with this little beauty this afternoon. I was really in the mood to read "The Renaissance," but that poem wasn't one of the ones included.
Not her best collectionThe four sonnets are the best selections from this collection, which make this collection worth it. I do recommend reading it.
The most beautiful poetry in the world, whether sanguine or melancholy. Edna loved life vividly.
Short, but highly enjoyable. There are a few famous poems in here, and the rest are very good. I enjoyed the shift in form and tone from the previous book, too. It's a more playful volume.
