https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76423.Ghost_Girl
Mais um caso duma jovem que em resposta a maus tratos infringidos, se encerra em si mesma, num mundo concha.Maus tratos?!...
Cenas que saltaram dum thriller de terror para a tela real!...Custa aceitar que seres tão abjectos, capazes de tamanhas atrocidades, pertençam à mesma espécie de Jesus Cristo, Pitágoras, Madre Teresa de Calcutá , Nelson Mandela, e outros afins!Será possível considerá-los humanos?!
Membros da mesma Humanidade que nos inclui?!
Torey Hayden, the new teacher at the school, and in charge of the small class of special needs children, has her speaking before the end of her first day.
"His pugnacious behavior was so extreme, his mouth so foul that the parents in his previous school had banded together to keep him from returning, even with resource help." So he'd ended up here in a last-ditch attempt to save him from custodial detention." So they place him in a special needs class where he's allowed to swear and behave a badly as he likes?At about half way, Jeremiah used the word "nigger".
The fact that it tells a true story is one of the reasons why its reader is urged to keep on going, but the most important reason is that you can't help but wanting to find out what happened to Jadie.The book is about her, an 8-year-old girl who's deeply disturbed and is an elective mute.
The author of this book, Torey Hayden, is a special education teacher who has helped children her whole life and has got quite the career record to testify to that.
If only there were more caring and loving teachers like in this book, then maybe the world would be a better place.
The only thing that could make it crazier would be if I told you it's a true story.Also - it's a true story.The plot follows psychologist Torey Hayden (the author) as she unravels damage done to 7-year-old Jadie, then fights to rescue her from the worst nightmare you can imagine.
Worst case scenario - she's being sexually abused by the members of a Satanic cult (probably her parents), has been forced to ritualistically slaughter animals to drink their blood, and also witnessed the brutal murder of a young girl.This is the first book I've read in one sitting in YEARS.
De uma forma simples e descontraída somos apresentadas a esta investigadora comportamental de crianças especiais e as motivações que a fazem trocar o certo pelo incerto, o conforto e um certo facilitismo por um trabalho árduo, lento e só.
Com uma resiliência adequadíssima às suas funções esta professora vai operando junto daquelas crianças e vamos ficando presos às suas histórias de vida.
A lentidão do processo de conquista de confiança é desarmante e só queremos ler mais e mais para percebermos o porquê das suas atitudes e por outro queremos ver ser feita justiça.
Torey dirba su autistais, agresyviais, seksualiai išnaudotais, muštais ar alkoholikų vaikais.
Tada ji buvo paskirta į Tori klasę.
Ypatingą klasę, kurioje mokėsi problemų turintys vaikai.
Šeila gyveno tik su geriančiu tėvu itin skurdžiame rajone.
Jos drabužėliai niekada nebuvo plauti, o tik vienus juos ir turėjo.
Pamažu Tori bandė prasibrauti pro Šeilos užkardas ir jai pavyko pamatyti, jog mergaitė itin gerai skaito ir skaičiuoja, kad ji toli gražu nėra negabi mokslui.
Ir labiausiai jaudino tai, kad "Mergaitė" yra tik viena istorija iš milijonų.
Hayden yra parašiusi daug knygų, daug tikrų istorijų, labai gaila, jog Lietuvoje yra išleistos tik dvi...
The author is a special needs teacher & has written a whole series of books about the "poor" children she's worked with (but who's stories she doesn't mind using for profit...there's no real educational or informative angle on these things).
She's not a bad writer, & unlike the blurb doesn't seem to really sing her own praises too much in the story even though some of the techniques she apparently used to get the girl to talk are quite interesting.
I don't think I'll read any more of her books though, the whole Dave Pelzer thing turned me off stories of this type as they're never nearly introspective enough, they just come across as sensationalist to me.
When she and Jade finally get down to business and she helps Jade put a voice to her fears, she discovers that the child is apparently being abused by a cult of Satan-worshipping child molesters.I say apparently because it's clear that ultimately this is all speculation.
There is never any proof that Jade's claims are true and as this all took place in the 80's when there was an hysteria surrounding children being abused by devil-worshippers, that leads my inner skeptic to think, "Weeeeeeeeeell, maybe not so much." On the other hand, I must be honest and say that I just don't know.
This is the true story of an experienced special ed teacher who goes to a small town to teach a class.
One girl in her class in very disturbed and this book tries to unravel why the girl is disturbed.
Once I got into the book I couldn't put it down.
This book will probably give me nightmares and I sort of regret reading it!I googled and the girl is now grown-up, but declined to be interviewed.I have my opinion about what maybe happened to the girl, but I don't want to say because it will give away spoilers.
It is a story that I just had to finish once I started, and I read the entire book in one sitting.
There are some very grapic and disturbing images in this book.
The very sad thing about this book is that it is a true story.
No little child could simply make-up the kinds of things Jadie recalls.
It seemed like all her teachers and even the psychologist simply believe Jadie was just a "messed up" kid.
Proceed with caution with this book, it is extremely disturbing to those who are sensitive to such matters and especially if you are a spiritual person.
Really, really disturbing....as this is a true story, untainted, non-fictionalized.
Unlike in fiction, it does not have all the answers, and as a reader, I don't feel free to formulate any either.
At the end, I can only hope and pray for a good life for both Jadie and Amber, and for Sapphire of course.Torey Hayden is a good storyteller as I believe she is a teacher.
Not only that, I found myself really immersed in the book, wanting to get to the end of it to find out what happened.
As a special education teacher, I found this book so, so interesting and heartbreaking. I found the ending less than satisfying, but it is real life and real life doesn't wrap up nicely with a little bow on top. I will definitely be checking out Hayden's other books.
Jadie's story is compelling, disturbing, and touching all at once.
The story naturally attracted my interest and, no matter how horrifying and sickening Jadie's experiences were, I still found myself reading more and more chapters with every chance I had.
One more thing: if you cannot digest anything related to satanism or occultism then have caution while reading this book because (personally I agree with Tory Hayden that Jadie's case was intertwined with satanism) you'll come across it around the middle to the end of the book when Torey is finally putting two and two together.
after-read effect:tadinya sempet mau mindahin buku ini ke shelf "tendang-ke-laut" tapi ga tega juga..aku baca buku ini pas kelas 3 apa 2 smp ya?
dan buat yang udah baca pasti tau buku-bukunya Torey Hayden itu diperuntukkan buat usia 30tahun keatas.orr siapapun yang sudah siap mental.
Jelas aku bener bener ga siap mental pas itu.arghhh why did i read thiss boookk??
Dan setelah baca buku ini, rasanya jahat banget kalo kita menutup mata.
Mungkin sebenernya buku-buku kaya gini perlu untuk membuka mata kita kalo child abuse itu memang bener-bener terjadi dengan taraf kesadisan yang diluar batas yang bisa kita bayangkan.aduh pokonya stress setelah baca buku ini!
Not quite sure what to say about this book.
Most definitely a compelling and shocking read.
All Toreys books I have read are ones I try to read as fast as possible, whether that's her writing style or the content I'm not sure.
I wanted to keep reading to check the victims were ok.
It's obviously something that happened some years ago, and thankfully victims of abuse are now treated differently and I would hope action to help would start much sooner now.
Perhaps that's what made this worse is that people didn't necessarily believe and took a while to help?
A well written book.
Uma leitura simples e rápida que nos leva a conhecer a incrível história de Jadie, uma menina com um comportamento muito característico.
É muito interessante ainda poder seguir os restantes colegas de turma de Jadie, cada um com problemas específicos e que nos levam a conhecer novas realidades.A forma como nos vamos envolvendo na historia e nos 'segredos' de Jadie é viciante levando-nos a querer sempre ler mais e mais.
É triste saber que existem casos destes no mundo e que há mais crianças como Jadie a passar por aquilo que ela passou.
Opinião em breve... ;)
But the narrative flowed a lot more smoothly, and I didn't find myself as frustrated with the author as I have in her past books.The book was written in the 1980s (first published in 1991), and there are some things she was able to get away with then that would definitely not fly in a public school today - picking an unruly boy up by his belt and shirt collar, lifting a six-year-old girl's shirt up (in the classroom) to check for signs of scoliosis, locking yourself and that girl in the cloakroom because that's the only place the girl feels safe enough to tell about the abuse she's been subjected to.
It is about a lady named Torey who gets a job in Pecking to work as a special needs teacher because the old teacher didn't come back.
On their first day she had four children; Jeramiah,Reuben, Philip and Jadie.
The only way Torey could get Jadie to talk was when they were in the closet and all the doors were locked.
Jadie would come in every day after school.
Jadie and Torey would talk.
The dominant impression for this book is probably intensity.
Intensity as the dominant impression is good though because it keeps you hanging on the edge of your seat and wanting to read more.
4,5 stars, almost 5.Just like Hayden said, this would've been a better story if it had a proper ending. But it didn't and it wasn't Hayden's fault since it was a true story and she told it like how it was.I'm pretty sure I haven't read anything this devastating since Shlomo Venezia's Sonderkommando (and for those who don't know, it's a detailed story about Venezia, who survived Auschwitz). At some points this book made me physically sick. It made me go through things that I, otherwise, would've never had to think about.
While the situations of the children are obviously very sad and no child should ever have to go through anything even remotely similar, the school that Hayden was teaching at seems a bit dodgy to me.For one, it is not a special education class that Hayden is asked to teach - it is merely a classroom that has lumped all the 'hopeless' cases into.
(hide spoiler)]I feel like this book was a lot more sensationalised than the other books I have read by her and that led to me feeling a bit disappointed.
Ghost Girl by Torey Hayden3.5 StarsFrom The Book:Jadie never spoke.
Yet a little girl was living in a nightmare, and Torey Hayden responded in the only way she knew how—with courage, compassion, and dedication—demonstrating once again the tremendous power of love and the resilience of the human spirit.My Thoughts:There is no nice, happily after-after, story book ending to this story of Jadie, a severely traumatized child who had so many different problems they were difficult to decide which was the most severe.
I do however, applaud Torey Hayden's courage in telling the story.
Il libro è davvero bello..ma penso sarà l'ultimo che leggerò di Terey Hayden...non ho dormito una notte dopo averlo letto.E' crudo come può essere cruda la verità e la mostruosità di casi del genere...leggerlo mi ha fatto sentire male, mi ha fatto provare schifo...
Philip, bocah berumur enam tahun yang masih belum dapat (atau mungkin tidak mau) berbicara dengan jelas, sering menjadi korban ejekan Jeremiah, suka menangis dan kemampuan akademisnya kurang.
Pada akhirnya, setelah banyak cara dihalalkan dan setelah menempuh kehidupan yang panjang, Jadie yang sebelumnya suka membungkuk dan tidak mau terbuka pada orang lain berubah menjadi seorang gadis yang pandai, menyelesaikan studinya dengan baik dan tentunya, berdiri tegak.
Kisah yang diceritakan oleh Torey ini nyata dan patut untuk dibaca oleh semua kalangan terutama bagi mereka yang (mungkin) memiliki anak yang menderita autisme.
Dan melalui cerita ini, tentunya kita jadi berpikiran lebih terbuka terhadap anak yang menderita kebutuhan khusus.
She finally starts to trust the special educational teacher as the school year goes on.
This child starts telling information to the teacher that is so hard to believe.
She has the teacher confused and not really knowing if this little girl is fantasying or telling what is happening to her and her two younger sisters at home.
1D----Torey HaydenAfter Torey had many meetings with the area schools psychiatrist they finally decided to tell the gruesome details that Jadie had been telling her teacher for months.
Everyone wanted to hear the details from Jadie.
What caught my attention is that the book is not written by the victim, but from the perspective of perhaps the only adult to get through to the young, disturbed child.
Torey Hayden is a special needs teacher, working in an impoverished area, and her charges are a classroom of mentally disturbed children.
Gradually, Hayden gains Jadie's trust, a task barely manageable with the little amount of time she is able to interact with her on a daily basis.
How a young child can suffer so much at the hands of adults is remarkable.
Hayden's work has at times been critiqued for 'cashing in' on the suffering of others.
The first character name is Tashee, the one who was getting picked on in the story but Jadie said something just to stand up for her by telling people not to pick with her and leave her alone.
Finally, my favorite part of this story is when Jadie come out of nowhere tell a bully to stop saying things to her friend who was just doing her work.
That had me thinking about real life bullies who just pick on people for no apparent reason all the time.
There's just problem: the events described are based on reality.The book is a memoir but other than it being presented in the first person it doesn't read like a memoir.
It reads like fiction.
Other than one's prior knowledge of Torey Hayden's work as a teacher and therapist and note below the copyright that says the names were changed to protect the privacy of those involved there is nothing in the text to suggest or remind one that the story is non-fiction.
Both would have been helpful as Hayden refers to her previous work or to something she has read on a subject without providing enough information to look up what she is mentioning.
Lontano dall'essere un romanzo, sembra una sorta giallo imperniato sul rapporto che si crea tra l'insegnante (e autrice del libro) Torey e una bambina con gravi problemi psicologici.E' purtroppo una storia vera e dico purtroppo perchè racconta di abusi e difficoltà talmente grandi da spaventare qualsiasi adulto, figuraiamoci un bambino.
Non so che valore "scientifico" possa avere, se può essere utilizzata come "libro di testo" per corsi universitari relativi al disagio giovanile, non sono ferrata sull'argomento e non posso valutare.
A me tuttavia non è parso un libro di quelli che leggi per il piacere di leggere.
La forma non è accattivante e risulta più simile ad un resoconto che ad una narrazione.
Tai be proto stipri knyga emocine prasme.
Žinant, kad tai tikrų tikriausia istorija, tai dar labiau paaštrina.
Iš kur pas kai kuriuos žmones toks žvėriškumas?!
Kažkaip būtų keista pasakyti, kad knyga viena iš mano "geriausių" skaitytų knygų.
Todėl, nes nesiverčia liežuvis sakyti "geriausias", kai pasakojama istorija yra tiesiog žvėriškai baisi.
Na, bet tai tokia knyga, kuri labai mane palietė, giliai įsirėžė.
Ir vien pažiūrėjus į knygos viršelį apima liūdesys, o kai sužinai ir jos vidų...
Baisiausias vaikų istorijas ji nukelia į knygų puslapius.
Tikrai dar skaitysiu jos kitas knygas, tačiau kažin ar greitai, reikia tinkamai atsigauti po šios.Vau!
Vau!
Vau!
