https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2540257.Mary_Louise_and_the_Liberty_Girls
People who read this book and gave it low ratings have to remember that it was written in 1917, the World War I era.
Yes, there is some racism because books written then had it.
Mary Louise forms a group with her friends and name themselves the Liberty Girls.
The purpose of the group is to raise money to buy things of comfort for the American boys fighting the Germans.
Fear of traitors to the US government was a very real thing.
It isn't long before Mary Louise decides that there is a traitor in town.
It helps if you like such statements as " the flag represent the President." At times I really thought this was satire but I fear that it was serious.
This book is not only racist against Germans it is also filled with Americanism, which sounds nice but is not.
I am not someone who has any particular fondness for the German's behavior in WWI but this is way too much.
I am glad I read it, for it did me a good idea of what it was like to live back then but it was a unpleasant experience.
accusation of treason for questioning war, noble crips, jolly black servants, and a mystery, oh my! l. frank baum, you sure were wacky.
Mary Louise and her friend Josie O'Gorman condone interment camps for German-Americans, talk with satisfaction about hanging traitors, suspect every hereditary German in town, make impassioned speeches about the opposite of civil liberties, and believe that speaking against the Great War and the draft is a crime.Besides being anti-human rights, this book is badly written.
Mary Louise and her friends start out the book bullying businessmen into buying liberty bonds.
Caught and shot, the book turns back to Mary Louise, who organizes the Liberty Girls to prepare corn-based foodstuffs for the war effort.
Although it's sad to see Mary Louise Brewster, Josie O'Gorman, and company putting jingoism before the Constitution, the book is a fast-paced thriller and only two of those who point out the unconstitutionality of Wilson's sedition laws turn out to be actual traitors.
Stephen Kane's aircraft company is here and is the victim of a bombing, but Kane himself doesn't even rate a mention.Josie O'Gorman is in top form, and it's clear why these books were buried under the far more feminine girl sleuthing of Nancy Drew.
Her "stout" figure doesn't even rate a mention, although she does decline to where the flag-inspired Liberty Girl uniforms depicted on the book's frontispiece.
The Mary Louise series is about a girl amateur detective and were written for teenage girls.
Set in World War I, Mary Louise and the Liberty Girls explores the themes of patriotism and dissent in wartime.
Mary Louise is 17 and teams up with her friends aged 14 to 18 to form the Liberty Girls to help out the war effort.
They start with helping to sell bonds, but, when anonymous letters opposing the war appear, the girls go searching for the treasonous pro-German people of the town.
Are they traitors or are they just voicing their right to disagree?
Mary Louise and the Liberty Girls
Troupish but nice A nice story with an incorporated mystery, if you don't mind WWI propaganda about bonds & the wartime efforts along with some alarming "patriotic" sentiment (like limiting freedom of speech). Such books were common during that time, but not all were interesting. It felt a bit juvenile (like a Trixie Beldon or Ginny Gordon book, as it is much in that vein of troupe) but all around not a bad read if you can accept it for what it is.
http://librivox.org/mary-louise-and-t...
This series is excellent and the narrator is outstanding!
Some of the "patriotism" ideas were a bit strong for my taste.
