https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54976.Encounters_with_the_Archdruid
Brower's natural enemies were the mineral engineer, the resort developer and the dam builder.What John McPhee did, in the three parts of this book, was to contrive meetings between Brower and each of these three.
No. Brower hikes in the Cascades with the mineral engineer; he camps out on Cumberland Island with the resort developer; and he goes rafting through the Grand Canyon with the dam builder.
Each time, McPhee is there with his wonderful ear.You might think, then, that this is a book about Good versus Evil, the saintly Conservationist against the modern scourges: mining, resort building, reclamation.
Published in 1977 it describes three meetings in the wild the then head of the Sierra Club, Dave Brower, the "archdruid" of the title, had with then prominent agents of development: hiking Glacier Park Wilderness with a mining consultant Charles Park; exploring Cumberland Island, Georgia, with the developer of Hilton Head Charles Fraser; and running the Colorado River in the Grand Canyon with the head of the dam-building Bureau of Reclamation Floyd Dominy.McPhee's bias clearly favors Brower's pro-wilderness stance but he does treat the enemy fairly, making all four of the principals likeable and interesting and giving a presumably true rendering of the adversaries' statements of their views.
He's a die-hard environmentalist with a gift for PR who fights a never-ending battle against the government, developers, miners, and even humanity at large in his quest to keep as much of America as possible out of the reach of man forever, and McPhee – whose writing talent is truly impressive – allows Brower and his nemeses to explain themselves and their views on nature at length in flawless, crystalline prose.
His fervent devotion to the outdoors is nearly religious (hence the book's title), but so heartfelt and understandable, given the irreplaceable natural wonders he's fighting for, that by the end of the book I was practically cheering for him even though his antagonists were just as thoughtful and compelling as he was.
Great book about the soul of environmentalism. The author perfectly captures the equally valid perspectives of David Brower, former head of the Sierra Club, and the miners, developers and dam-builders to which he stands opposed. Best of all, these perspectives are shown through in-person encounters and the arguments take place in the very settings over which they will fight their battles.
And full of secrets, beyond counting.The three essays that make up this book each have the same beautifully simple set-up: David Brower, infamous leader of the Sierra Club and, for a time, the face of conservation in the United States, clashes with a person who has a very different philosophy about humanity's use of natural resources.
Sort of like that Wilson quote above, they each believe that human interventions in the environment are no less "natural" than those of rabbits or sparrows or komodo dragons.Charles Park, one of the world's foremost minerologist profiled in the first essay, comes across as a man who has lived the majority of his life in nature, and has an encyclopedic knowledge of flora, fauna, and geology from throughout the world.
McPhee accordingly observes, listens and documents three narratives, which essentially capture the presiding differences between the philosophies of each man.It would have been so easy for this short book to present binaries of eco-good and anthro-evil.
Though the three men "in opposition" to conservation, push consistently for further environmental exploitation in the name of human advancement, they are presented to possess equal integrity to the idealist eco-warrior: a mineral engineer argues - 'we can't stop all this- we must direct it.' The real exploration of the accounts, then, becomes preservation versus conservation.All that aside, it gets 5* because it's the first non-fiction nature-walk narrative I've managed to find that isn't just one boring woman's journey through the wilderness.
Just finished.
Absolutely excellent.
John McPhee is one of the great nonfiction writers of our time.
As a New Yorker staff writer since 1965, he has contributed greatly to my own understanding of geology and natural science in general, as well as the broader and more all-encompassing science of conservation ecology and the environment.
Most poignant is the contrast between the environment of 1971, when this book was written, and the environment of today.
Somehow I doubt that the days when a cabin was buried under snow are going to return.More to come when I have time.
The Archdruid of the title is David Brower, ousted first Executive Director of the Sierra Club, and the man who in the early 1950s was largely responsible for halting the Echo Park Dam project at the confluence of the Green and Yampa rivers (thus saving Dinosaur National Monument), the act of which symbolically launched the modern conservation movement in the U.S. In this book, creative nonfiction master John McPhee narrates a number of Brower's 'encounters' with various similarly visionary opponents to conservation, including materials engineer and renowned geologist-for-hire Charles Park, resort developer Charles Fraser (designer of Hilton Head Island in South Carolina), and Bureau of Reclamation Chief Floyd Dominy, famous (or infamous, depending on your view) builder of dams.
McPhee's book is as essential now to an understanding of the basic differences between conservationists and their opponents as it was when it first appeared in 1971.
I guess I need to read more John McPhee.
McPhee's account of the conversations between environmentalist David Brower and three representatives of development may be 40 years old, but the issues it sets out are still surprisingly relevant.
The book is divided into three sections--each is a conversation between Brower and one of his "natural enemies." Although Brower is the central character, McPhee gives a pretty complex picture of him; for instance, we see that he is perfectly willing to distort facts in order to make a winning political argument for the cause he believes in.
Gosh I love John McPhee.
What I think I love about McPhee is his remarkable ability to be fully objective--to present two (or more) sides to a story and to give each equal weight and consideration--while still writing with a clear and obvious passion for his subjects.
McPhee so clearly burns with love and wonder for humans and nature alike, he seems to hold equal respect for conservationists and industrialists, he identifies with precision and poignancy both human hubris and human ingenuity.
He's an American treasure and a singular talent in narrative nonfiction writing.
I can identify both with the naive young environmentalist I was in my 1970s college years as well as the Baby Boomer who continues to witness the ongoing battles between those who would bend the environment to do their will in the pursuit of the almighty dollar and those who seek to preserve our land for this and future generations.
The essential rules of engagement have changed mightily in the 47 years since this book was published.
Kudos to McPhee for skillfully capturing a moment in time that continues to resonate profoundly today.
McPhee is an extremely talented writer and in his (now classic) work of environmental literature he presents the issues with the complex analysis they deserve. No matter where one stands on the issues, this book is a good read. The WSJ review on the back of the book is wrong; this isn't about choosing sides, it's about understanding all of the ways the issue can be seen, the complex details and everyone's own contradictions. McPhee's well-crafted prose make reading this a breeze, so check it out!
Complicated feelings about this. The first "encounter" struck me as a sort of masterwork in characterization and observation. The second also had its moments, but especially the third was less interesting, maybe because the book is full of so much nature porn that it starts to feel like padding. The problem could be the subject matter, because I'm quite impressed with McPhee as a writer but don't care much about nature or conservation. Going to try at least one more book of his sometime soon because I'm really impressed with the basics of what he's doing here.
Part travelogue, part dialogue, McPhee captures the experiences and conversations as Brower explores different wilderness areas with men who are, quite possibly, his archenemies: a mineral engineer advocating for a copper mine, a developer who purchased a mostly pristine Atlantic island, and the Director of the Bureau of Reclamation who wants to build dams where ever dams can be built.The discussions themselves are interesting and thought-provoking; should we aspire to be conservationists, who manage land wisely and responsibly, or preservationists, who leave the land alone entirely?
The things that Brower rails against, hydroelectric dams being his biggest bugbear, now seem quaint when we face the threat of global climate change and dams represent a cleaner, carbon neutral power source compared to fossil fuels.And yet, though the book shows its age, it's a marvelous look back, a tantalizing reminder of what was.
Reading McPhee was my journalism education. From him I learned that people can be understood by the work that they do and the passion they bring to it. I learned that factually rigorous reporting can be the source of stylish literature. And I learned that profiles, when approached with curiosity and a belief that people's lives always illuminate the larger systems around them, can be a source of social wisdom. I remember exactly where I was when, in the middle of the third section of this wonderful book, I thought to myself, "This is what I want to do."
McPhee engages the tension between environmental conservation and the economic "needs" of American society in a way which is both clear-eyed and, to use the term in a way that has nothing to do with Fox's co-optation, "balanced." The Archdruid is David Brower, long-time head of the Sierra Club who was ousted by the organization as a result of his increasingly radicalism and what his opponents saw as rhetorical overkill.
In three sections, each of which was originally published as a long New Yorker essay, he brings Brower together with a developer who's conscious of environmental concerns; no cardboard villains.
This book serves as a good introduction into David Brower and his conservation tactics, his reason and stubborness, as he competes verbally with men of a different mind than his: a mineralogist, a developer, a dam erector.
The interplay between passion and character is fascinating, as all the men are reasonable and driven and opinionated, but also able to interact with each other respectfully.I am currently also reading Cadillac Desert, and wanted to read this first as the third section (with Floyd Dominy) was great preparation.
The politics of conservation and reclamation fascinate me.A recommended read, especially for conservationists or those opposing them.
This book chronicles David Brower's, executive director of the Sierra Club for seventeen years, interactions with three men that would be seen as enemies of the environmental movement, a mineral engineer working with the mining industry, a resort developer and a builder of large dams.
This from David Brower, executive director of the Sierra Club for seventeen years, speaking about our lust to grow our economy and develop technology.
Ours is a chain letter economy, in which we pick up early handsome dividends and our children find their mailbox empty.","When rampant growth happens in an individual, we call it cancer."
McPhee is a terrific writer.
If you think you are a convinced conservationist, you might be surprised at how often you agree with the miner, the dam builder, and the real estate developer, rather than David Brower, the archdruid.
That is McPhee's genius.
"[Brower's] field, being the relationship of everything to everything else and how it is not working, is so comprehensive that no one can comprehend it." Brower's passion and commitment don't allow for objective data or grey areas: "Objectivity is the greatest threat to the United States today." And wasn't he right?
Was he right?
And do I owe that to Brower?
Interesting and well written book about David Brower's history, views, relationship with the Sierra Club, as well as the interaction and collective mindset with three preservation antagonists.
I expected more bitter fighting between Brower and his adversaries and was surprised at how well they got along considering such opposite viewpoints.
I suppose it shows how the current political rhetoric has shaped my mind to believe that inflexibility of differing opinions is the norm, consequently resulting in anger, fighting, and mudslinging.
It is a somewhat refreshing reminder that things haven't always been this way, and makes me wonder what it will take to get back to that way of debating and demonstrating conflicting opinions.
This book is a step back in time to the origins of modern American environmentalism.
That is, the political reachings of "tree huggers" and rabid anti-developers.
The founder and excommunicated leader of the Sierra Club, David Brower, is to me an uninspiring, mopey, and at times infuriating character.
His willingness to embrace misinformation as a levering tool, propaganda, is totally reprehensible.
And McPhee contrives all the "encounters" in the book, which in itself comes across as cheap sensationalism.The section on Charles Fraser, the iconoclastic developer of Hilton Head, South Carolina, is genuinely interesting, even if it is as much a set-up as the Brower section.
I had recently read "Cadillac Desert," and this book was mentioned as one of the references. Being somewhat familiar with the characters of Floyd Dominy and David Brower, I thought it was a joke that they would be rafting down the Colorado River together, and I had to read this story for myself. I'm still not sure how much of it is true, but I particularly enjoyed the presentation of the drastically-different opinions in a mostly-unbiased manner. Also, the descriptions of the various wilderness areas were interesting.
so i admit, i am not terribly interested in reading about environmental issues or debates on said issues. HOWEVER. i did find john mcphee's 3 part book following environmentalist brower around the US really interesting-- his descriptions of natural places & how they have been or have tried to be developed fascinating (even if dated). for me the most fascinating part was about the development of hilton head island & the failed development of cumberland island...
I didn't find this book about David Brower, president of the Sierra Club for years, to be one of McPhee's better books. Some of the personal information was good, but the "encounters" left a lot to be desired. Hard to work hard to get through this book.
Reductio ad absurdum of the American penchant for reducing all politics to personalities, then setting off two diametrically opposed people to create the illusion of objectivity. Yet undeniably moving and engaging.
John McPhee is perhaps the most lucid and engaging non-fiction writer I know. And this work is certianly no exception.
Someday we are going to have to choose.
The creativity at work here -- pairing the late Sierra Club militant David Brower with a pro-copper mining scientist, a developer, and the most powerful head ever of the Reclamation Bureau on separate trips through nature -- is a real stroke, and a lot of fun.
We get the best sense of Brower in the first part, on his hike with Charles Park, while he seems to melt more into the action in the second and third sections with developer Fraser and then the rafting trip with Floyd Dominy, and I think this elusiveness weakens McPhee's portrait a bit.
Plus, Cadillac Desert gives a fuller portrait of the most interesting character in McPhee's book, the indomitable Dominy.
I wish I could give this book 5 stars, because the characters are wonderful and McPhee's writing is unparalleled.
Joined by a mineral expert (Park), a land developer (Fraser), and a the commissioner of the department of reclamation (Dominy), McPhee recounts the life and times of David Brower as the great conservationist tries to show and preserve the beauty of the mountains, islands, and rivers that have yet to be transformed by man for his own needs.
Although it reads at times like one, there are points where you remember it's non-fiction.Those criticisms aside, if for no other reason than to meet Floyd Dominy, you must read this book.
