https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18114322-the-grapes-of-wrath
Giving a book like the Grapes of Wrath to a 15 year old serves largely to put them off fine literature for the rest of their lives.
Worse yet, many liberal lawmakers won't read it again after high school and won't glean from it an essential understanding about the pride and perseverance of the American working class which the far right is playing like a fiddle much to the detriment of the entire nation.
A book like the Grapes of Wrath should be required reading - for every American over 30.
And as time went on, the business men had the farms, and the farms grew larger, but there were fewer of them.”Some guys with a lot of cash came along and bought up all the struggling family farms and leased the land back to the former family farmers and when they couldn’t produce, the new Owners kicked the families out of their homes.
Poor people are less than.From California came hand bills, pamphlets promising jobs and urging the homeless to drag their whole lives via barely moving junk heaps to the golden state where grapes grew in bunches by the side of the road.
“How can they live like that?” The people with money would ask, as if being poor was a choice.
Noi siamo esseri umani, e siamo destinati a combattere il sopruso con l'insurrezione."Sconfortante sarebbe notare che l'Umanità rinuncia a soffrire e morire per un'idea; perchè è questa la qualità fondamentale che è alla base dell'Umanità, questa la prerogativa che distingue l'uomo dalle altre creature dell'universo"E allora Tom, uno dei protagonisti dell'esodo biblico della famiglia Joad, con la sua incapacità a tollerare le angherie che subiscono i suoi cari, diventa il simbolo e l'incarnazione dell'essere umano di John Steinbeck.
Συγκλονίζει και αναγκάζει τον αναγνώστη να βιώσει καταστάσεις,να νιώσει συναισθήματα,να σκεφτεί,να συγκρίνει και να καταλήξει σε συμπεράσματα διαχρονικής "οργής",που θα προτιμούσε να αγνοεί.Με μια αξιοθαύμαστη απλότητα αυτό το μυθιστορηματικό έργο μοιάζει με μια γυμνή πραγματικότητα που έχει και τις έξι ανθρώπινες αισθήσεις και μας αφηγείται με πλήρη συνείδηση την κοσμοαντίληψη της εποχής του 1930 στην Αμερική (μεγάλο κραχ),που ωστόσο είναι σπαρακτικά-αρχετυπικά δεμένη και ταυτόσημη με τη σημερινή εποχή.
Η αίσθηση της "γεύσης" που έχει πάντα προστατευτικό ρόλο,γίνεται αντιληπτή καθώς παλεύει ανάμεσα στο γλυκό και το πικρό φάρμακο για τα βάσανα του ανθρώπου.
592. The Grapes of Wrath, John SteinbeckThe Grapes of Wrath is an American realist novel written by John Steinbeck and published in 1939. The book won the National Book Award and Pulitzer Prize for fiction, and it was cited prominently when Steinbeck was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1962.خوشه های خشم - جان استاینبک (امیرکبیر) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1977 میلادیعنوان: خوشه های خشم؛ نویسنده: جان اشتاین بک؛ مترجم: شاهرخ مسکوب؛ عبدالرحیم احمدی؛ تهران، امیرکبیر، چاپ اول 1328، در 520 ص؛ چاپ چهار
The book won the National Book Award and Pulitzer Prize for fiction, and it was cited prominently when Steinbeck was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1962.خوشه‌ های خشم - جان استاین‌بک (امیرکبیر) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1977 میلادیعنوان: خوشه های خشم؛ نویسنده: جان اشتاین بک؛ مترجم: شاهرخ مسکوب؛ عبدالرحیم احمدی؛ تهران، امیرکبیر، چاپ اول 1328، در 520 ص؛ چاپ چهارم، 1346، در 624 ص؛ چاپ پنجم 1351، در 658 ص؛ چاپ هفتم 1356، چاپ هشتم 1357؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - قرن 20 مرمان در محکومیت بی‌عدالتی، و روایت سفر طولانی یک خانواده ی تنگدست آمریکایی ست؛ که به امید زندگی بهتر، از ایالت اوکلاهما، به کالیفرنیا مهاجرت می‌کنند؛ اما اوضاع آن‌گونه که آن‌ها پیش‌بینی می‌کنند، پیش نمی‌رود.
Only once they arrive, they discover that there is nothing prosperous about it—not only is there a serious shortage of work (mostly caused by an overabundance of labor that came with the influx of so many other migrant families), but they also have to contend with growing anti-migrant sentiment among the local population and wealthy landowners who think nothing of taking advantage of them in their state of vulnerability.
Without proper labor laws protecting worker’s rights and no trade unions to represent their interests, the Joads are severely underpaid for whatever work they do manage to find, and they simply fall deeper and deeper into despondency.The reason this gets my goat is ‘cause it doesn’t have to be that way.
Most of the 4 and 5 star ratings came from those who read it as adults.
At one point in the story, Ma tol' Rosasharn that it ain't all about her (most high school kids think everything is all about them, which is probably one reason they couldn't enjoy this book or most other classics they are forced to read).
I wasn't disappointed in the lack of closure at the end, because the closure came in the middle when Ma said, "Rich fellas come up an' they die, an' their kids ain't no good an' they die out.
in your nose, eyes, clothes, food, house, the darkness at noon, unable to see the Sun during a dust storm, the top soil flying away carried by the winds, never to return in the Depression, when people , farmers lost their homes and land to the banks, incapable to repay their loans , (no crops no money) symbolized by the Joad family of Oklahoma , in the 1930's .
In an old dilapidated automobile the Joad's , Ma, the de facto leader, and Pa, Tom, just released from prison for killing a man in self defense, ( it didn't help that both were drunk) .
Man-made environmental catastrophe and its (in)human cost - a study in inequality and injustice!Imagine having to leave your country because it is a wasteland created by a decade of dust storms?
Imagine having nowhere to go, but still crossing the desert in hope of finding a future after your past was wiped out by human failure, greed and environmental carelessness?
Just recalling the voices of the characters makes me shiver - as they suffer through the ordeal of fleeing from the Dust Bowl, that environmental catastrophe caused by greed and paid for by individual families, to a Californian paradise which doesn't welcome newcomers.
Después de un viaje plagado de obstáculos California no es lo que esperaban.
Es un libro que habla sobre los derechos fundamentales de los seres humanos: comida, un techo, trabajo.
La familia Joad solo busca trabajo y vivir en una casita humilde.
El viaje no solo afecta físicamente a los personajes, sino que remueve sus conciencias.
Los mantiene unidos, sabe que solo se tienen a ellos mismos y aguanta cualquier cosa sin derrumbarse.
No deja que en su rostro se refleje ni la preocupación ni el agotamiento, tirando de absolutamente todos los miembros de la familia.
برای کسانی که بدنبال لذت درک لبخند ژکوند هستند !
چیزی کهمیخوام بنویسم بیشتر از جنس احساسه تا از جنس تحلیل ..
فقط بیست صفحه از کتاب روخونده بودمو تونستم باهاش ارتباط برقرار کنم ..
حوالی ساعت ده شب خوندن روشروع کردم و تا هفت صبح یکنفس خوندم ..
نزدیک به ده ساعت یه حس عجیب و غریب که تووی این بیست سالی که میخونم اولین بار بود که برام اتفاق میفتاد ..
چهارصد صفحهاول رو یه تیکه و پیوسته خوندم ..
کتاب با هر سطرش روح خواننده روبه درد میاره ..جاهایی از داستان قلب ادم واقعا به درد میاد
نزدیک به ده ساعت یه حس عجیب و غریب که تووی این بیست سالی که میخونم اولین بار بود که برام اتفاق میفتاد ..
کتاب با هر سطرش روح ‌خواننده ‌رو‌به ‌درد میاره ..جاهایی از داستان قلب ادم واقعا به درد میاد ..
عجیب نیست که خود نویسنده بعد از نوشتن این رمان مدتی دچار اختلال روحی میشه ..
داستان روایت اوارگی یه خانواده پرجمعیت تووی شاهراه شماره ۶۶ هست و مصیبت هایی که یکی بعد از دیگری گریبان گیر این خانواده میشه ..
و هر بار یه بهت سنگین فضای سیاه داستان رو‌در بر میگیره ..
بهترین رمانی بود که تووی زندگیم خوندم ...
How can you frighten a man whose hunger is not only in his own cramped stomach but in the wretched bellies of his children? The Grapes of Wrath won John Steinbeck both the National Book Award and the Pulitzer Prize, firmly engraving his name on the stone tablet featuring the canon of Great American Writers. Published in 1939, it is arguably Steinbeck's best known work and is still widely read today. Admirers praised Steinbeck for writing an epic tale of Biblical proportions, singing songs of th
But real success came with a series of California novels, stories of common people trying to make it during the Great Depression - In Dubious Battle, Of Mice and Men and the most important one, The Grapes of Wrath.The severe drought of the early 1930's resulted in a massive agricultural failure in the southern region of the Great Plains, above all in western Oklahoma and the Texas panhandle, where the fields have been heavily overcultivated by wheat farmers after the first World War. The area consisted of millions of acres of exposed topsoil, no longer anchored by growing roots as the crops withered and died from lack of rainfall.
But when hope becomes desperation, desperation melts in prayer, prayer degenerates into hunger and hunger ferments in wrath and the skies break lose in floods of misfortune and a mother caresses the disfigured face of her son in the dark, the debilitated bonds that kept the family together shatter silently in fragmented impotence and paralyzing vexation, leaving only one absolute, pulsating soul that speaks for all people, the ghost of Tom Joad: “Then it don’t matter.
Wherever they’s a fight so hungry people can eat, I’ll be there.
Powerful and Tragic.......with an ending NEVER to be forgotten!In THE GRAPES OF WRATH, hard times plague the Joad family from beginning to end, and chronicle the Great Depression of the 1930's.
No rain, dust storms and the dreaded "monster" bank ended a much-loved and long-lived way of life forcing farmers to become migrant workers traveling from one unwelcome place to another; and No work + No money = No food, but the Joad's never give up despite being tired, beaten down, angry and sad.
They shared their lives, what little food they had and gave everything of themselves as you will see by the remarkable conclusion of this 1939 classic.
That contributed to the tragedy of the book, of course, coupled with the knowledge that there were not just a few Joad families during the Great Depression, but millions of them, so your percentage of possible happy endings is going to be pretty low.
It wasn't even sad because Steinbeck was using the backdrop of the Great Depression to illustrate the greater problems in America - the disparity between rich and poor, the way low-level laborers have to fight tooth and nail to achieve the most basic human rights, the fact that the people who run the major banks and farms are horrible unfeeling shells of human beings, etc.
I was familiar with other works by John Steinbeck, but somehow I hadn't gotten around to this classic of American literature until now.Pardon my language, but holy shit is this book good.
I was blown away by the scope of the work, how it followed not just the Joad family traveling from Oklahoma to California, but it also meditated on the problems of all the displaced families of the Great Depression, and on all the poor farmers who were driven from their homes and their lands by Big Banks and Greedy Corporations.
It was like being a fly on the wall at a really dull tea party where everyone is making small talk.
It seems they were allowing waves of nostalgia to sweep over them--forcing everyone to listen as one by one they recounted monotonous tales from their youth.I guess I probably shouldn't make such comments about something labelled a classic, but for me it was not.
As a Christian, I also found the language, particularly the regular blasphemy, offensive and would probably have stopped reading earlier for that reason had it not been a classic.
Sadly, still to this day, we can see in the news that there are people working for less than the minimal wage and under slave labor conditions.To tell us this story, John Steinbeck presents to us the life of the Joads: a big united, poor family who lives in Oklahoma under a tenancy system until their lives start to derail - because of the drought, tightness of money, agricultural changes (now a tractor can put ten families out of work…) -, which leads them to a hopeful journey to California in search of jobs, dignity, happiness and means to fulfill their simple dreams: Ma Joad would love to have her “little white house”; all Grandpa wanted was to have grapes soaking his beard; and Rose of Sharon fantasized about having ice in her house.Slow paced and packed with long descriptions, I imagined it would take me up to three weeks to get through the book by my reading standards; it took me nine days instead.
In "The Grapes of Wrath" we meet Tom, who has just been released from prison on probation, as well as his family who's about to move to the West because banks and tractors have evicted them from their own home and land.
I was especially fond of how Steinbeck, at every other chapter, stops up to depict the conditions in America at that point in time; whether it be about a car seller and his greediness, the devastating conditions for the workers in the fruit fields or a turtle.
Until now, "East of Eden" has been my favourite of Steinbeck's, but "The Grapes of Wrath" is a close runner-up.
If our tractor turned the long furrows of our land, it would be good.
A half-million people moving over the country; a million more restive, ready to move; ten million more feeling the first nervousness.And tractors turning the multiple furrows in the vacant land.Has there been a change?
The news items quoted above are only a sample.The tractors of capitalism are still mowing the vacant land....and in the eyes of the people there is the failure; and in the eyes of the hungry there is a growing wrath.
“Now Tom said, "Mom, wherever there's a cop beating a guyWherever a hungry newborn baby criesWhere there's a fight against the blood and hatred in the airLook for me, Mom, I'll be thereWherever somebody's fighting for a place to standOr a decent job or a helping handWherever somebody's struggling to be freeLook in their eyes, Ma, and you'll see me"And the highway is alive tonightnobody's foolin' nobody as to where it goesI'm sittin' down here in the campfire lightWith the Ghost of Tom Joad”from the song The Ghost of Tom Joad by Bruce SpringsteenThis was a buddy read with Stepheny and Erin.One thing Springsteen’s song proves is that not only the plight of the migrant worker hasn’t changed much but that the gulf between the haves and the have nots is as wide as ever.Steinbeck set this book during the Great Depression, when poor tenant farmers were driven from their land by a combination of drought, dust storms and poor soil management.
Book Review  3 out of 5 stars to The Grapes of Wrath, written in 1939 by John Steinbeck. I might have an unpopular opinion when it comes to this book, as it was fine but nothing fantastic for me. I admit, I read this in middle school, nearly 25 years ago, and never went back to read it again. I tend not to like books about awful things as the main plot. I don't mind when bad things happen, or circumstances change, but when the entire book is about the pain and suffering of a family, it doesn't
I tend not to like books about awful things as the main plot.
I don't mind when bad things happen, or circumstances change, but when the entire book is about the pain and suffering of a family, it doesn't usually rise to the top of my TBR.
I like Steinbeck, too, so it's not so much an issue with the author as it is with the topic.
I usually don't read things about this time period or space for those reasons.
it's a good book.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
Well, a great book is a whole different story.
A great book has nothing to do with YOU, or at least not YOU individually.
And this is a great book.
And this is a great book.
As Frost would say, "no tears in the writer, no tears in the reader."Believe me, if you are over 35 and have a heart, you can not read this novel without tears, laughter, anger and awe.
I'd like to travel back in time and cup Steinbeck's face in my hands and say, "You did it, John.
The ending of the book could not be depicted on film in those days because censorship would not have allowed it, but there's no reason to assume that Ford would have filmed Steinbeck's ending had he been able to.
My own view is that Steinbeck was a fine novelist, but that Ford was a great film-maker.
Steinbeck's "The Grapes of Wrath" is a fine novel, but Ford's "The Grapes of Wrath" is a great film.
И накрая, разбира се, си счупват крилете в прашните стъкла и не успяват да излязат на свобода.“И в невъзможността си да поеме дъх семейството постепенно започва да се напуква като оная спечена земя, по която пътува.
Пресягаш се за къшея хляб, висящ като мираж пред теб, и някой човек (с пари и земя), който не знае какво е глад, току го дръпва изпод треперещите ти ръце.
Мотивът за гнева всъщност е заложен в романа като концепция, но остава недоразвит.
رواية عن أمريكا في النصف الأول من القرن العشرين , رواية عن الدولة العظمى , وكيف أقامت امبراطوريتها وسطوتها .ببساطة مطلقة : العمل عن أسرة أمريكية قررت الهجرة من أوكلاهوما لكاليفورنيا , أسرة تقليدية رأت الحلم في الغرب الأمريكي , نتيجة اضطهاد رجال الأعمال لهم وطردهم من أرضهم , وتقديم النصح لهم (كذبًا) , أن الجنة الأرضية في الغرب , ونتيجة لضيق ذات اليد , ونتيجة لضغط مهول , آثروا أن يتركوا أرضهم بحثًا عن أخرى .عندما ينتشر الطمع بين البشر , ويرى الإنسان في أخيه الإنسان مجرد سلعة قد يبيعها فيكسب منها , حينها تفقد أسمى القيم والمبادئ معانيها , ونصبح أقرب إلى حيوانات في غابة متنافرة الفصيلة , ف (لقد ظللت أفكر , لم يكن تفكيرًا بالمعنى المفهوم , كان شيئًا أعمق من ذلك , فكرت كيف كنا شيئًا مقدسًا عندما كنا شيئًا واحدًا .
The Pulitzer Prize winning novel of 1940, this is the story of the Joad family, Oklahoma tenant farmers displaced from their land by the combined effects of ecological disaster, rampant capitalism and the Great Depression.
There is nothing about this novel which I don't love: Steinbeck's wonderful use of language, his ability to create memorable characters, his descriptions of the natural world, his use of symbolism and - probably most of all - his passion.
There is an essential humanity and a deep vein of hope in Steinbeck's characters: bad things happen to them, but they work hard to survive.
I had read The Grapes of Wrath before, and I purposefully didn't re-read it while writing a novel set in the same period for fear I would somehow be influenced by it or be so intimidated I'd be paralyzed.
Steinbeck's prose is deft and evocative, and those famous bits like the turtle crossing the road and the ending, when Rose of Sharon nurses the dying man, are great.
This jaded reader had to stretch to accommodate some of the characters' naivete, particularly that of Rose of Sharon who is so dim she's a little hard to believe.

اما داستان از جایی به بعد روند بی نظیری رو طی کرد به شکلی که در صفحه‌ی انتهایی احساس میکردم بعد از مدت‌ها یک شاهکار خوندم.«جان اشتاین بک» بازتاب بخش مهمی از تاریخ آمریکا و رکود اقتصادی پس از جنگ جهانی اول رو در زندگی خانواده‌ای کشاورز از اهالی ایالت اوکلاهما بیان میکنه.
به قدری اتفاقات و شخصیت ها شفاف روایت شده بودند که احساس میکردم در کنار خانواده‌ی جود زندگی میکنم و جزئی از اونها شدم و بنظرم این قدرت روایت به شدت کمیاب و فوق العاده است.صفحه‌ی پایانی کتاب با حادثه ای تمام میشه که قطعا به یاد موندنیه و تا مدت‌ها از ذهنتون بیرون نمیره‌.جان اشتاین بک قصه گوی بی نظیریه و همین باعث شد امروز کتاب دیگه ای هم با قلمش آنلاین خریداری کنم تا برای سومین بار کیف کنم از اینهمه نبوغ برای روایت تاریخ ...
Absorbing and maddening and depressing. Incredible that a book with so much anti-migrant sentiment against fellow Americans is timely in a way Steinbeck didn’t intend for 2017, I’m sure.There is a crime here that goes beyond denunciation. There is a sorrow here that weeping cannot symbolize. There is a failure here that topples all our success.
