https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/702099.Le_Roi_se_meurt
Or just another great way of demonstration how life is painful and unmerciful, in the same way as Kafka and Beckett did?I read this book when I finishing my French course in 1989 (I was 18) and maybe not as mature to see that this talks about how unprepared we are for certain aspects of life.
This death only illustrates absurdly what we should read between the lines.
È la morte dell'umanità, di un'esistenza "finita" in tutte le sue forme.
L'umana condizione della precarietà, la paura dell'oblio e dello scorrere inesorabile del tempo.
Ionesco riesce ad essere visionario ma essenziale; attraverso un linguaggio disarticolato, nonsense e paradossi ti avviluppa in un dibattito esistenziale fino a scuotere i pensieri del lettore, che inevitabilmente si trova a fare i conti con la verità.
La stessa verità che il Re rifiuta di vedere.Con un ritmo sempre più incalzante, questo testo teatrale rievoca immagini metafisiche senza tregua: sconvolge, destruttura, impietosisce,lacera l'animo di ognuno di noi, che catarticamente si abbandona all'inevitabile esito dell'opera."l'unica grandezza può consistere soltanto nell'accettazione del non essere"
ليس في وسعك إمساكها بالقدر الكافي أو الزعم بأنك فهمتها بنسبة خمسين بالمئة!حتي الريفيوهات الأخرى لم تساعدك بشكل أو بأخر في فهمها.لذا دعني أتحلي بشجاعة الحمقي في إدراج محاولة فهمي لهذا النص ..شخصيات المسرحيةتتكون المسرحية من 6 شخصيات هي الملك بريجنيه- الملكة ماري- الملكة ماجيريت- الطبيب وهو أيضَا جلاد وجراح وعالم فلك- جولييت وهي ممرضة ومديرة القصر- وأخيرًا الحارس...الملك يموتكما يبدو لك من اسم المسرحية أن الملك يموت، لذا هذا لا يعتبر حرقًا للأحداث، بل هذا يبدو متعمدًا حينما تجد ماجيريت تحدث الملك في بداية المسرحية وتخبره بأنه سيموت في نهاية العرض فهذا لا يعني شيء أخر غير أن الملك يموت =D،.يا إلهي..ما الهراء الذي اكتبه بالأعلى!،تدور المسرحية حول ذلك الملك وتلك الساعة الأخيرة في حياته وتشبته في الحياة والحكم والصولجان..متشبث بإحكام في الحكم والحياة..هذا ما ستراه.سيبدو لك ديكتاتورًا.لكن هل هذا هو مغزي المسرحية كلها!أنت بمجرد قراءتك لها عليك أن تتأكد بأن هناك جزء من عقلك سينسف معاها ومع طريقة الحوار والأوامر..
Il suo regno si sta sbriciolando insieme a lui.
Ha vissuto centinaia di anni e ha sempre rimandato il momento di pensare alla morte, perché ci sarebbe stato tempo.
Al re avevano promesso che sarebbe morto quando fosse stato lui stesso a deciderlo.
Ma invece lo faranno morire prima, alla fine dello spettacolo (con conto alla rovescia della regina Margherita, prima moglie del re, nel ruolo di Parca), perché lui non si è deciso e si è «impantanato nel fango tiepido dei vivi».

It's about death. Yet it's not a tragedy. I'd never read a play, but this one, from theater of the Absurd was genuinely phenomenal.It's a play that makes you think and return on a lot of points of your existence. It shows how we're never ready to death, how death takes us by surprise and catches us off guard...I enjoyed this play soo much and I do truly recommend it. Plus it's a one-day reading !
I don't even know any theatre going adults who admit to liking Theatre of the Absurd and who on earth could possibly have thought these kids would be an exception.Oh. But oh.
I've never seen anybody enjoy theatre as much as they did this day.The play, translated by Geoffrey Rush and Neil Armfield, had never been produced in Australia before.
Hard to understand why as it is easy going stuff as Theatre of the Absurd goes.
The audience was there to see Geoffrey - I imagine plenty of them had never been in a theatre.
I read this one or two sentences a day, four of four or five years.
It was pretty easy to follow.
The king dies -- not to give away the whole plot.
Bush.
By the end, Bush had been banished by history, and it now seemed a meditation on mortality.
Because I was still reading it.Ionesco is very helpful on the question: "Everything is falling apart.
But how do we proceed?" I think he's right, you just deny everything, and solve the immediate little problems.It's a meditation on divorce, and how ultimately divorce is impossible.
reportage sugli ultimi mesi di governo di Berlusconi
Je suis surprise par à quel point j'ai apprécié cette pièce. Je compte aller la voir prochainement. Bel oeuvre.
Even the supporting characters, though aware of the imminence of the king’s demise, often can’t quite accurately gauge where in the process he is; a very funny line, an answer of “It’s an expression” to a question of the king’s, is delivered as a result of believing the king to have started losing comprehension abilities, though he’s really only lost situational awareness for the time being.When comprehension does actually begin to fade, it leads to some fun play with idioms that hint at a growing distance from a complete reality, including confusion between literal and figurative heads and a conflation of the king’s state and his State (which reflects the entire play’s perspective).
And what an acquaintance indeed!If Zeno was a whack to the head, this is a blow to the heart.
But the best lines go to Queen Marguerite, with her almost trance-like lists and repetitions and reversals.
The rhythm here is awesome, and I can't wait to see if they're up to it at the theater.Check out these lines:"Ne vous affolez pas, surtout.
C'est bien dans la norme des choses, n'est-ce pas?
Vous ne vous y attendiez plus." (pg 17)That's Queen Marguerite talking to Queen Marie, who can't accept that the King will die.
You weren't expecting it anymore".Queen Marguerite again, talking about the King and Queen Marie living it up:"La doucer de vivre.
پس از قاتل 1958 و کرگدن ها 1959، "شاه می میرد" سومین نمایش نامه یونسکو از حلقه ی "برینر" است.
اگر پیش از این برینر سرخورده و نامطمئن است، در "شاه می میرد" پیوسته فرمان می دهد و همه را به اطاعت از خویش وا می دارد.
اما همسر دومش ماری، با او همدردی می کند و سعی دارد برینر را از رنج روبرو شدن با مرگ، در امان نگهدارد.
وقتی بالاخره شاه می پذیرد که در حال مرگ است، افراد، یکی یکی او را ترک می کنند و با مارگریت که او را برای "پایان" آماده می کند، تنها می ماند.
Per evidenziare le frasi, o i passaggi, che in un testo mi colpiscono particolarmente, uso delle pecette colorate. In questo caso, in un libricino di poco più di 70 pagine, non riesco a distinguere dove ne comincia una e ne finisce un'altra. Semplicemente grandioso: la semplicità dell'allegoria non può far altro che catarizzarla e portarla all'atroce massimo della sua capacità espressiva.
anderthalb Stunden, am Ende des Stücks) und weiß noch nichts davon.
Seine erste Frau und der Arzt bestehen darauf, es ihm nun endlich mitzuteilen, die zweite und aktuelle Frau ist dagegen, um ihn nicht zu sehr zu belasten.
Schließlich wird es ihm gesagt, und zuerst glaubt er es nicht.
Überhaupt stirbt nicht nur der König - sein Tod ist ein Zeichen für den allgemeinen Zusammenbruch, und je näher er dem Tode ist, desto schlimmer werden die Nachrichten über den Zustand des ganzen Landes.
Am Ende verschwinden selbst die Darsteller nach und nach, und schließlich bleibt nur das große Nichts über (selbst das Bühnenbild wird abgetragen).
Più che dirvi cosa ne penso, oggi vi consiglierò semplicemente la lettura di questa opera.La chiamo opera e non libro in quanto non nasce come romanzo o un testo di narrativa, ma le parole raccolte in queste pagine hanno origine dalla volontà di essere portate in un contesto teatrale, cosa che è successa a Parigi nel 1962.L’autore è Eugène Ionesco, nato nel 1912 e deceduto nel 1994.
Quest’opera non solo rientra quindi nell’epoca contemporanea, ma è stata inserita, da alcuni critici, tra quelle più significative di questi tempi.
"KING: No, no.
I know, nothing can console me.
It just wells up inside me, then drains away.
Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear, oh dear, oh dear!
(Lamentations-then without declamation, he goes on moaning gently to himself.) Help me, you countless thousands who died before me!
Tell me how you managed to accept death and die.
Help me to cross the threshold you have crossed!
Come back from the other side a while and help me!
And you who were strong and courageous, who accepted death with indifference and serenity, teach me your indifference and serenity, teach me resignation!"
U pogovoru se tvrdi da je riječ o tragikomediji, no to je kalup u koji ovaj tekst nema smisla trpati.
Autor tvrdi da opisuje stupnjeve ljudskoga odricanja: strah, želju za životom, tugu, nostalgiju, uspomene i, napokon, rezignaciju.
Kao motivacija za pisanje spominje se pokušaj oslobođenja smrtne tjeskobe, ali ulazi se i u razmatranja/ igru s fenomenom kulta ličnosti (portretiranje egotripa) i Ničeanskom analogijom („Bog/kralj je mrtav“).
Poetika: čest nonsens, meta igre, apsolutna relativizacija svega, na mahove vrlo lucidno/originalno/zabavno (263), ali daleko od npr.
Dojam poprilične rastegnutosti, ali relativno vješt kraj.Usp. LOTR – Gríma, Théoden, Denethor; Život je san De la Barce (302).
La morte arriva per tutti e quando arriverà il nostro turno sarà bene non farci cogliere impreparati: a quel punto infatti dovremmo lasciare tutto alle nostre spalle, ciò che è stato e ciò che sarebbe potuto accadere.
Peccato che non tutti siano pronti ad arrendersi al Tristo Mietitore e il Re in questione sembra essere davvero restio...
Ionesco riesce ad intervallare momenti, se non propriamente comici, di levitas in modo che lo spettatore o il lettore non cada mai in uno stato di depressione cosmica sebbene l'opera sia decisamente cupa.A me ha ricordato Seneca e il suo "Ci vuole tutta la vita per imparare a vivere e, quel che forse sembrerà più strano, ci vuole tutta la vita per imparare a morire." Decisamente consigliato.
Explores an incredible number of angles on a very real problem -- the last problem, in the end, that we'll all have to face -- as only a fantasist with an outsize imagination could. The occasional melodrama is leavened by Ionesco's wicked and ridiculous sense of humor and by an overarching sense of wonder kindled by this play's absolute refusal to give into limits of logic or convention as it takes the themes of weakness and mortatlity and the trope of the fisher king as far as it possibly can.
This full-length play is kind of a letdown after reading Ionesco's late-1950s output. I'm not sure why this feels like a failure to me; the focus on death as an individual experience (albeit embedded in a certain amount of sociopolitical context)? Ionesco doesn't really do emotional material well, and this play has more of that than of absurdist theater trickery to it. Perhaps he had reached the limits of absurdism and was looking for something else?
I skimmed this last year for a French course, but read the English translation recently and loved it. The play skips between being witty and ironic, sincere and touching. The king himself is frustrating in his lack of foresight, but utterly human in his reaction to his own mortality, and therefore relatable. The character of Marguerite is also very interesting - I have yet to decide what (or who) she may represent.
J'ai préféré cette pièce-ci à La cantatrice chauve où il semble avant tout détruire le théâtre bourgeois et idéologique de son époque, tandis que dans celle-ci, il continue à se positionner contre ces théâtres, mais en construisant le sien. J'ai apprécié la façon dont il a traité le thème de la mort, sans véritablement prendre parti à la fin: cela ne nous dit pas ce qu'est la mort, ni son issue, mais propose plusieurs pistes connues et surtout, cherche à aider à accepter son inéluctabilité .
I had to read this book for school, though I must admit I enjoyed it. I never would have thought that the Theatre of the Absurd would interest me, but it did! I'm probably going to read "Rhinocéros" next."Le roi se meurt" was a very quick read, took me about 2-3 hours to read intensively (the book is about 160 pages).
O superba parabola despre moarte, absolut absurda, dusa la extrem prin hiperbola, o moarte ce cuprinde toate mortile, moartea Regelui. Cuprinde, la fel, toate visele, toate dorintele, toata viata tuturor oamenilor, un regat intreg, imbatranirea deci, toate alegerile din viata, disparita din ce in ce.
DOCTOR: He will be a page in a book of ten thousand pagesin one of a million l ibraries wh ich has a million books.JULIETTE: It won't be easy to find that page again.[DocToR : Oh yes, you ' l l find it catalogued by subject matter,in alphabetical order . . . until the day comes when thepaper's turned to dust . . . unless it's destroyed by fire.Libraries often go up in smoke.]
Une pièce très psychologique, très intime, sur l'agonie du roi Bérenger et ses récriminations. On peut le rapprocher de La mort d'Ivan Ilitch de Léon Tolstoï pour le débat intérieur contradictoire autour de la mort, de L'écume des jours de Boris Vian pour la décrépitude physique du roi que redouble la décrépitude de son environnement.
The story was weird, but I guess that's the genre of this play. The point was for it to be absurd, and I think the author succeeded.For me, I think overall, it lacked action. Nothing really happened except that the king is dying and everyone is panicking. Not bad, but it didn't suit my taste very much.
هرچند در مجموع نمایشنامه خوبی است، اما چند ایراد کلی دارد از جمله اینکه نویسنده یادش رفته روایت داستان مهم تر از سایر عناصر است و مدام می بینیم که به حوادثی که نمادین اند ارجاع داده می شود.با اینحال، شاید عدم جذابیت این کتاب برای من ابزورد بودنش بود.
Liked the combination 'médecin-bourreau-astrologue'. What to do when your life is being 'interpreted' in a way that you believe you're facing death? Will you scream or beg the dead people (how ironical..) for resignation?
