https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/198412.Sweet_Savage_Love
Because this book, quite simply, is one of a kind and I doubt I'll ever read its like again.
Oh shit, I'll read them simply because I can't get enough of that fine hunk of man, Steve Morgan.Yes, I have rarely fangirled a hero with such giddy abandon as I have Esteban Alvarado aka Steve the Stud.
I didn't go through agonies when Monson's hero and heroine went through the wringer, but Rosemary Rogers ripped out my guts and did a flamenco on them during the last third of the book where she puts Steve and Ginny through both physical and mental torture, each one suffering a trip into a personal hell.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || Pinterest💙 I read this for the Unapologetic Romance Readers' New Years 2018 Reading Challenge, for the category of: Antebellum/Civil War/Reconstruction Romance. For more info on this challenge, click here. 💙Every time someone says romances are too light, and that they don't have enough action, I want to throw a bodice ripper at them. SWEET SAVAGE LOVE is one of the early bodice rippers, when the authors were still working out the formula, and was pu
SWEET SAVAGE LOVE is one of the early bodice rippers, when the authors were still working out the formula, and was published just two years after THE FLAME AND THE FLOWER.SWEET SAVAGE LOVE is a Western romance set amid the backdrop of the Franco-Mexican War and the American Civil War. Ginny Brandon is the daughter of a Southern senator who has a vested interest in the Confederates beating the Union.
Rosemary Rogers does the same with Steve and Ginny, in a gigantic misery-fest that finally blows out around the 90% mark.This book is not for everyone, and it's hardly a traditional love story, but if you're into bodice rippers and edgy reads, SWEET SAVAGE LOVE is a fantastic book.
Sweet Savage Love's historical sweep and exciting scenes of violence and lavish lifestyles and incredible journeys and amusing set pieces describing dining, decadence, and erotic dancing held me captive like a virginal and emotional but surprisingly sharp-tongued young lady captured by a brutal but attractive alpha male/lover/rapist and then secreted away in a luxurious bordello as he figures out his next move and how to best evade his own capture, while plundering her on a nightly, sometimes daily basis.As I read on, I realized that immersion within past time frames of historical significance was only a part of my pleasure.
Damn you, Rosemary Rogers! Any attempt to compose a review of your cracktastic epics results in a complete implosion of logical thought processes and reason! Not to mention that I begin to question my ethics, values, and moral compass when at the turn of every page my sane brain says "This is CRAZY!" and the other half screams "More, more, MORE!!!!" This entire review will be a struggle to remain coherent, but I'll try. Rosemary's enthralling chaos makes plot summaries impossible. "Stuff happen
Not to mention that I begin to question my ethics, values, and moral compass when at the turn of every page my sane brain says "This is CRAZY!" and the other half screams "More, more, MORE!!!!" This entire review will be a struggle to remain coherent, but I'll try.
"Stuff happens" is as close as I can get with any kind of accuracy.Call me weird and idealistic, but I thought that the romance genre begged for self-insert - the female reader wants to be the heroine who, after a string of trials and tribulations, finally gets that clinch with the hero who would swim a moat of fire-breathing dragons for her.
The book that started it all.Everyone's first modern romance novel they read in the 70s at age 14-20 or thereabouts.
The granddaddy of all romance novels deserves nothing less than an extreme, high-drama reaction.
Yes, it said the "F-word" and the hero rapes the heroine and she loves it (what the hell is he supposed to do after he's ripped her bodice?
Will never forget in the so-called big rape scene, how Steve whispers in French (Ginny doesn't know he can speak her language to this point) about the "little death", which is the French word for an orgasm.
I tried, I really did. I wanted to see what the fuss was about. WTF is romantic about this story? The part where he rapes her? Or the part where he slaps her? How about the part where he washes her mouth out with soap? Oh I KNOW! It's where he keeps calling her a whore.OMFG no thank you. I love bodice rippers but I kind of like the hero to not be a masochistic ass-wipe.
The dysfunctional relationship between two batshit protagonists was initially a hoot to read but in the end, the story was overlong. I had to drag myself through the horrors of the last quarter and I was glad to leave both of them on the last page.
" The book revolves around Virginia "Ginny" and Steve Morgan.Their relationship can only be described as a love/ hate relationship on steroids, laced with crack, while funneling tequila!
There are a lot of overwhelming secondary characters too such as mercenaries, prostitutes, french officers, gypsy dancers and a very unfortunate love slave.
Through it all, I loved the characters.
Ginny became one of my all time favorite favorite female characters.
She evolved so much through out this book and I admired the strength she showed after all the horrific events she had to endure.
She is now safely installed as one of my favorite heroines.So like I said before, this book was a little scary to read because even though I love me some bodice rippers, my poor little heart can't take it when the heroine gets ganged raped by every single dude she come across and suffers constantly, but I was expecting it, so I was ready for it.
"He was the first man," she recalls, "who made me feel like a real woman." After getting a divorce from her first husband, she married Rogers in his home town, St. Louis, Missouri.
A friend of my parents had this book, and when we saw it at their house my mom knowingly said "Steve and Ginny." I sneaked a glance at the title, and thought "sweet savage love" was something I REALLY wanted to read about.A few years later I tracked the book down and devoured it.
I never read another Rosemary Rogers book, afraid it wouldn't be as good.Anyway, I still enjoyed this a lot on my second read, but now that I'm older and more cynical, I wasn't as breathlessly rapt as when I read it in my early twenties.

I could not believe that no one had made a movie out of this book when I read it years ago.
This was my first historical romance novel and I could not put it down.
The writing was so colorful and Rosemary Rogers made Mexico sound so romantic.
I eventually tired of "bodice rippers" like these and the impossibly gorgeous heroes and heroines who hated each other through most of the story as they lusted after each other in spite of themselves.
The title says it all.
But I remember "Sweet Savage Love" fondly - I guess you never forget your first...
This book is a very hard read. There are harsh scenes that you rarely see. It's difficult to shock me, but I found my jaw dropped numerous times. The author was fantastic. It was very well written and put together. I gave it 4 stars instead of 5 because there was so little positive to offset all the horrible things that happened and because it's LONG. Definitely worth the read, though, if you have the stomach.
Buddy read with Caro and MG.
From DoraLady @ Ami:'It is a tough read. The heroine gets raped and abused not only by the hero but by others.'
There are 2 Goodreads listings for SSL as well there should be.
Fabulous beyond words, the standard by which all Steves will forever be measured to their detriment.
The five stars are mostly sentimental, you understand.
This was the first explicit bodice ripper I ever read, read again, and read the good parts a third time.
Deserves a place of honor in the Bodice Ripper Museum.
Heaven knows, poor Ginny never wore a bodice that didn't get ruined by her rakish love Steve or one of her numerous kidnappers.Splendid.
I read this book when I was 11 or 12.
Oh, sure, with the internets today, by the time a kid is that age, they've seen donkey shows and worse, but back in nineteen-eighty-something, this was quite the eye-opener.
I read it, I think my friends read it, who knows how many fifth-grade girls learned about pretty much everything (except donkey shows) from that very copy before I got it back?
After I had read and re-read and re-read the thing, my mother found it in my room.
"You can't read this!
The answer, of course, was in her room, on her bookshelf.
Rape rape rape. Name-calling, violence, rape. He rapes her repeatedly, kidnaps her, abandons her, and he's her true love? Ick. Maybe I'm too spoiled by respect and humor in contemporary romances to appreciate this, but it's a nice marker for how far the genre has advanced.
The book that kicked Harlequin romances in the crotch and changed how romance novels were viewed by women and some men. Great action, great mystery, white shot sexuality. The total package.
Both the hero Steve Morgan and the heroine Ginny Brandon go through horrific experiences including sexual abuse and degradation in the course of the story.
As much as I loved Ginny and Steve, and I and the fans couldn't get enough of them, I had wished at the time, that the author, Rosemary Rogers, had left well enough alone and had not done more follow up novels featuring this pair.
I hope and pray that you, Rosemary Rogers, have found your "Steve" and that you are living your happy ending as well.
This is what I call a fulfilling read baby!
What I really liked about his character is how he remained a jerk till the end of the book lol, he didn't turn into a saint just for the last couple of chapters like most other HR heroes.
His flogging and prison parts were difficult to read but I felt it was all karma.
It boggles my mind how her life changed from the beginning to the end of the book.
I hope I can find the sequel soon because I've grown quite attached to the characters after reading 700+ pages and I miss them already lol.
The Mother of All Bodice Rippers. None are worthy. Note that there are TWO listings for this classic title on Goodreads. Two Steves, yay.
Abandoned at page 125. I could not get interested in the plot. It just seemed to drag on, and I didn't care for any of the characters. It's just not for me.
I LOVE THIS BOOK!!!And that was partly because it was so sensual, raw and explicit to a then 17 years old boy.
12 years on, and I can still remember vividly the exact title of the book, word by word.
Yes, this book was released in 1974 - I read it in 1998.
So engrossing was the tale that me and my other two friends - read the book simultaneously.
I would prefer to a get the original copy of the book that I read than the newer reissues mostly for nostalgia reasons.
This was literaly the first romance I ever read was when I was young.
Of course, now I'm 45 and the love scenes have been surpassed by a few other writers but they're still good.
I was first married and my mother-in-law gave it to me when she saw how bored I was since I was allowed to work.
I remember being shocked by the romance scenes.
I have read this book many times and it never fails me.
I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys a fast paced I hate him-I want him-I love him kind of romance.
Great book. I'll go looking for the rest of the saga. Four stars instead five because two issues: too long episodes where h and H were apart and some of the scenes were too cruel for me, especially the things that happened to the hero. It seems I become slowly used to the sometimes ridiculous storyline changes in BRs. It's amazing how many times some of these books change their direction and let the characters become someone entirely different at the end of the story.
As good as I remembered. ;)
Set in the late 1800s in the American West and Mexico (during the reign of the Austrian who became Emperor Maximilian), it’s a fast-paced, moving story that will keep you up late at night reading.
And Morgan is all too willing to take advantage of the girl’s innocence.With superb storytelling, Rogers gives us a feel for the politics of the time and the life of the Mexicans and those Americans who chose to live in the West while she weaves a complex tale of a difficult, often combative, relationship between two strong-willed people.
Ginny is a courageous heroine though at times seemingly weak in moral fiber.
Hmmmm...I don't think this is a very realistic book, because honestly I think anyone who is supposed to be as strong as Ginny is purported to be would kill Steve the way she killed Bain.
Women do like having sex with jerks, but eventually wise up and realize the man is a loser.
She suddenly loses all her courage, brain and spine so she can throw herself at the feet of a man who was fucking other women the entire time.
Like I said, Ginny is supposed to be this incredible woman, but she's not.
Rosemary Rogers rarely disappoints to entertain or shock with a good bit of wtf-ness, and judging by the claims of many reviews, I expected her debut work to be an explosion of forced seduction, hate sex, non-pc abusive heroes and drama galore.
Then it went into the bodice ripper blueprint of girl from refined, upper status meets rough, bad boy --> spitfire banter --> hate sex ensues --> kidnapped by hero and repeatedly raped/forced seduction --> reluctantly fall in love with eachother --> separation --> misunderstanding --> reluctant reunion --> declaration of love.Some historically contextual things fill in the spaces, but even those parts were dull and seemed to be trying too hard to convince the reader of the period.
