https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3782.Theater_Shoes
And that personality, subtle though it may be, carries through the entire book through Mark's letters from Wilton House to this moment:Grandmother looked at him a little while in silence.
I'm convinced this is the first one, because it's so clearly a wartime book (its strongest aspect) and I think the novel states that Pauline is only eighteen, which means constant mentions of her aren't completely ridiculous, since she'd been a student at the school so recently.Madame Fidolia is also recognizably herself here, or at least recognizable as the character who first appears in Ballet Shoes.
It's about discovering talent you never knew you had because nobody ever looked at you and said, "You're good at reciting poetry, you should go on the stage!" It's about finding your tribe, about making the most of every opportunity, even the crappy ones--my favorite part is when Sorrel is dancing in the chorus of lambs at the first concert for the wounded soldiers, and she smiles at a Chinese soldier, who then asks to meet her and gives her a little fish pendant for good luck--and about being the best you that you can be, even when the world is putting pressure on you to be somebody or something else.
While reading this copy, however, I was somewhat dismayed to realize that the copy I had was either edited down to make it shorter, or to make it more comprehensible to 1980s American children.
It was both nice to read all the missing parts and very odd, because the book seemed clunkier and like it dragged more with all the extraneous detail added.Anyway, I'm giving it five stars anyway because it is a fantastic description of Blitz-era London from a child's point of view (that, and nostalgia.
My mother grew up in the UK post WW2 and this book really made me realize what an affect rationing, coupons, blackouts, and the like had on the population.
Confession: As a child (and young teen) I read Theater Shoes more often than I read Ballet Shoes. I would even say I loved Theater Shoes a tiny bit more, though I really am not sure why.For some reason I feel strange admitting this, perhaps because Ballet Shoes is undeniably of a higher calibre. But there you have it!
Theatre Shoes is a charming tale about three children who come to live with their famous, impoverished, eccentric grandmother in London during WWII, and end up attending a performing arts academy.When I was younger, I totally thought that I was Sorrel, the eldest of the siblings, who feels a great deal of responsibility for her younger brother and sister, but who also has ambitions of being an actress.
My favorite part of this one, the thing that's stuck with me through the years is (view spoiler)[when Sorrel and her teacher are talking about Miranda's acting and her teacher says, "But you wouldn't want to be the kind of actress anyway." That is such a valuable lesson.
That realization that you don't quite want exactly what the person you've been slightly jealous of has.
(hide spoiler)]One thing that struck me this time is how great Streatfeild is at writing kids in that the kids who are kind of jerks remain kind of jerks.
Miranda never learns to be a better person.
So my local library does not have all of the Shoes series books so I went straight from Ballet Shoes to Theater Shoes.
I wonder if I would have enjoyed it more if I'd read the two that come between because Theater Shoes just seemed to be so much like Ballet Shoes, just with different kids.
So while it is still a good Tween read, I didn't enjoy it as much as Ballet Shoes even though I liked some of the characters better in Theater.
(I enjoyed Miriam's dancing character more than Posy for example).
On to Skating Shoes now....
When their father is lost at sea, Sorrel, Mark, and Holly are forced to move to London to live with their previously unknown actress grandmother. She's determined to have them follow in the family's theatrical footsteps--no matter how much they protest! Do they have the talent to perform on the stage? Will they be able to adjust to this glamorous but difficult family?http://perfectretort.blogspot.com/200...
I caught the theatre bug early on so this one was a particular favorite of mine. Theatre Shoes includes characters from Ballet Shoes. I always like it when I recognize people from other novels, i feel so important, as though I know someone famous and now have bragging rights.
Somewhat of a follow-up to Ballet Shoes as it features Pauline, Petrova, and Posy as grown up recurring characters. Follows the proven formula-orphans and money trouble!
As a child, I was barely aware that the Forbes children were living through a war.
With this read, I was finally struck by the fact that the children had been living on the Channel Islands.
Even when the children do finally end up in London, it's almost unbelievable that their aunts don't see them until Christmas.
Mark is probably my favorite Streatfeild boy.
And this matter-of-fact line hints at the darker writing Streatfeild put in her adult books:"Mark...would, as long as he lived in the house, and quite likely always, be angry with Grandmother about his room."
A charming period piece. The three Forbes siblings are sent to live with their grandmother, who is an actress in London in 1943. She sends them to the Academy for schooling, where they discover their talents and ambition.
While I love the fact that the Fossils are included (because all of them, but especially Petrova, are so wonderful), I feel like this story mainly serves to purpose of catering to those who loved the story and want to read it again, but not re-read it (does that even make sense?).
Personally I now feel like rereading Ballet Shoes.My two main issues were these, however:1.) "the mean girl".
And I feel like (from what I remember) that all the shoe books I read so far have one bad girl, who is successful/jealous/downright mean and nothing else.
On top of that, they also discover that they are living with a grandmother who is not as rich as she thinks she is.WHAT’S COOL…1) This is a companion book to Ballet Shoes.
And it’s nice to find out what happened to the three after Ballet Shoes ends.2) I love the story of Holly and the borrowed (or is it stolen?) attaché case.
And of course, Madame.5) The family dynamic between the three children (Sorrel, Mark, and Holly) is nice.
The Fossil girls are minor characters in this riches-to-rags story; each one "adopts" one of the three new MCs, though none of them appears beyond letters--which is odd, because at least Petrova is still in England, but old enough now to be collaborating in the war effort with her flying and mechanical skills.
She's not terribly bothered about a career of any kind, though it's all fun to her, particularly the dressing-up.The adult characters were more convincing because more varied, and I got the impression Streatfield may have been poking sly fun at actors she knew IRL.
The letter writing to the Forbes children didn't really add anything and just seemed to be a sop to children who had enjoyed Ballet Shoes.I also found the pacing very strange.
There was also no real explanation as to why the Forbes children were struggling to afford things like an attaché case for school, when both of their aunts seemed very comfortably off and their cousins had everything they needed.
Then the father arrived home and what should have been an emotional and dramatic climax just seemed to peter out.I don't think Curtain Up is of the same standard as Ballet Shoes, but all Noel Streatfeild's books have a unique charm including this one.
Some time has passed and the characters are different.
I enjoyed the idea of the main characters and their situation.
Unfortunately, I thought they were a bit dull.
They had little individual voice and their actions and thoughts were very similar.
I found myself rereading passages to keep the characters straight.
The plot gets a bit mushy in the middle, focusing more on the kids' careers than the kids themselves, but the end wraps up quickly in a typical Shoe Series style.
I wouldn't recommend for reading aloud, but fans may enjoy this book and the cameos from book one.
Similar storyline as Ballet Shoes, but written not nearly as well.
The formula plot is a good one, but this drama lacks, well, drama.
You want to care about Sorrel but she really isn't that interesting and her siblings even less so.
Rather than this awkward attempt to use a different story to revisit the beloved three original girls, Pauline, Petrova and Posy, it may have been better to have written an actual sequel about them being older.
Some of the Streatfeild charm is still evident and living conditions during WWII are interesting, but this book seems more about an obligation to the publisher.
Listened to this as an audio book and it was delightful. This series is such a light-hearted collection of stories and I truly enjoy them. This one was about three young children who lived with their grandfather while their father served in the war, only to have their grandfather die and they move in with a grandmother that they've never met with the side of the family they never knew existed. Of course the family is all famous in The Theatre, so the three children must join Madame and become absolutely amazing. Hi-jinks and love abound.
I think that this book was very similar to Ballet Shoes, but there were few things which made me like this book more than Ballet Shoes.
First of all, timewise this book lasted a lot shorter time.
This made the plot more clear and the story wasn't just a list of things that happened to the children.Secondly, this book didn't have very much dancing in it either, but in this book I wasn't even expecting it.
Since the book was called Theatre Shoes, I started it with the expectation that it would be more about theatre and acting.
My impression is that Noel Streatfeild was depressed when she wrote this book. The writing is not as charming or light-hearted as other books I've read. It seems to be incomplete as it ends very abruptly and we never find out what happens to the three children, even though their futures are hinted at. The children are intensely serious and characters which could have been whimsical and delightful are flat. Will have to reread in a few months to see if this all changes, but I doubt it.
This was a really good and fun read. I admit that it took 3 whole months to read this and maybe it's because I haven't been really committed in reading it and I only read it when I'm bored or when I feel like it. I really loved the writing style, I felt really attached to the characters especially Sorrel. This is such a fun children book and I would definitely read this to my future child, maybe.
It's hard to think of more clever or heartwarming books than the Shoes series. Streatfeild is so funny and observant and tender towards her characters, and her descriptions of the London theater scene in the 1940s are fascinating. I think this series is perfect for everybody, both children and adults.
I first read these books when I was a child. At the time, I thought they were written by a man, one with a very glamorous name. When I reread this story now, I fell in love again. Streatfield writes wonderfully about creative life, the hard work and discipline involved, the sense of a calling. I plan to read all of these books again.
I liked the book. I also read Ballet Shoes by Noel Streatfeild, and that's a good book too. I think it's sort of funny how Mark keeps saying he'll be in the Navy . . . oops, not going to spoil! I'm just saying, you should read the Shoes series.
I really love these stories!
Not half as good as 'Ballet Shoes' but still a delightful romp. I'm happy to have finally read another Streatfeild, after reading (and loving) Ballet Shoes well over 10 years ago.
a little slow moving but a cute story
I have 4 books in the Shoes series and I read and reread them all the time.
I tend to watch You've Got Mail during the holiday season just to watch adorable Meg Ryan as Kathleen Kelly in the most wonderful whimsical children's bookshop in NYC.
I loved Family Shoes about the vicar and his four children.
I didn't know it at the time, but I was transfixed by British children's literature.
I especially enjoyed that prior to moving to London, the children lived on the island of Guernsey, an island I have now visited.
While this particular novel isn't as strong as either  Ballet Shoes or Dancing Shoes, I still very much enjoyed it and I look forward to re-visiting more of Noel Streafeild.~Audio book~
