https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35997.Clear_Light_of_Day
This deep, reverential love for an author who makes her words throb with a dull, suppressed ache for the wounds of humanity and transfer that same stir to a reader's blood and bones.
And offers a libation in honour of those unsung heroines who wander through the disorienting maze of life, fearlessly braving storms that wreak havoc, unappreciated, unloved, forgotten, perhaps even misunderstood, but manage to step out into the clear light of day which purges all the darkness lurking in their hearts and ushers in enlightenment and forgiveness, paving the way for a reconciliation, however belated, with the ones they love and loathe with a baffling intensity.
While at the beginning I did not feel any connection with the writing it slowly grew on me and I ended up agreeing with the Booker jurors that it deserved to be shortlisted for the 1980 prize.
At its core this is a story about the disintegration of an Indian family at the time of the partition in India.
The novel starts in the present with the visit of an Indian woman, Tara, to her family home in Old Delhi.
From the four siblings only two remain in the family home, Bim, the eldest daughter and Baba, the youngest, with special needs.
The book deals with siblings orphaned and parted at the time of the partition of India, and specifically the relationship between Bim, who has remained at home partly to look after a younger brother Baba who has learning difficulties, and Tara, who married a diplomat when very young and spends most of her life abroad.In the first part of the story we meet Tara as she returns to her decaying childhood home with her husband, who would rather be with his own family in new Delhi.
A wonderful book set in 20th century India, about family, loss, grief and realisation.
Raised by a doting poor aunt and neglected by their parents, Bimla, Tara, Raja and Baba grow up in the backdrop of political conflict, their lives filled with poetry and play.
As they grow older and as life drifts them apart, their house in Old Delhi becomes a monument of times past as the main characters Tara and Bimla struggle to bridge past and present while confronting their failures and disappointments.
Although a slow read, especially the first half of the story, it is filled with so many beautiful passages that I loved.
The writer tries a new spin on the tired old narrative of the all-sacrificing elder sister by showing that we don't get to choose renunciation—sometimes it's just thrust upon us.3.5 stars rounded off to 4 because more people need to read Anita Desai.Sharing some quotes:(view spoiler)["No one,’ said Bim, slowly and precisely, ‘comprehends better than children do.
Bim could hear Tara’s voice repeating all the cruel things she had so gently said—‘Do you ever see Dr—Dr—what was his name?’ and ‘When one is old, one has all kinds of fears, apprehensions’— " (177)Really it was a night of Persian glamour and beauty.
This novel about four siblings in pre- and post-partition India grew on me.
The opening pages were so slow, so atmospheric, the setting of Old Delhi was hot and dusty....these are all qualities I often find intolerable.
Desai is a quality writer.
Objectively, this is a high quality novel.
Family relationships are beautifully limned, atmospheres are so well described you feel like you are in the house or on the lawn with the Das siblings.
Still, I don't know that I would go out of my way to read more of Anita Desai.
The siblings were all so angsty.
History happened, like the assassination of Gandhi, but it was mentioned as an event in these characters lives and not as some random event that shook history.In reading this book I was reminded of just how important sibling relationship are in India (or at least, in traditional Indian values).
If you stop and think about it, siblings are the ones who will know you the longest.
Too often I think we dehumanize people out of pity or ignorance when we don't understand where they come from, and I think this book aims to shatter that.Really, I'd probably give it a 4.5, but it started slow, and I still don't like that the cover of my edition does not match the text.
This is a beautiful, tender drama about familial love and loyaly, coping and forgiveness.
It tells the story of contemporary India and the impact of political turmoil & civil war on a family, the plummet into mental illness and how a family copes to protect and take care of its own.
Desai is a wonderful story teller- I could feel the moist heat of India as I peered through the dim, heavy interiors of the family compound, hear the tropical birds nesting in the overgrown, decaying garden as I sat on the 2nd story verandah...
the book is very evocative of place and time.
Read in June 2015"Clear Light of Day is...a novel as wonderfully contemplative as a cup of afternoon tea." - The Blurb.I concur wholeheartedly.
Shortlisted for the 1980 Man Booker Prize “Isn’t it strange how life won’t flow, like a river, but moves in jumps, as if it were held back by locks that are opened now and then to let it jump forwards in a kind of flood? There are these long still stretches – nothing happens – each day is exactly like the other – plodding, uneventful – and then suddenly there is a crash – mighty deeds take place – momentous events – even if one doesn’t know it at the time – and then life subsides again into the
There are these long still stretches – nothing happens – each day is exactly like the other – plodding, uneventful – and then suddenly there is a crash – mighty deeds take place – momentous events – even if one doesn’t know it at the time – and then life subsides again into the backwaters till the next push, the next flood?”
And when the disease abates, Raja leaves to join their erstwhile neighbours, the Hyder Alis, in the Nizam’s Hyderabad, thus partitioning a duo that once seemed indivisible.By far the most intellectually capable, determined and clear-sighted member of the house, Bim eschews femininity in the hopes of establishing a place for herself in a man’s world.
India at its most fascinating and contradictory.Clear Light of Daypores over sibling rivalries and the often unspoken tensions in extended families.Ultimately I felt that Anita Desai finished the book with a confused message.
She does so, listening to a musical recital at a neighbour's centred around Mulk, a figure who, hithertoo, had seemed to represent an uncultured, crude, divisive India.
A confusing, artificial, finale.While Booker shortlisted (1980) Clear Light of Day examines family tensions via a series of sibling reflections, a much better book (IMO) covering similar ground, but with much more vitality is Neel Mukherjee's The Lives of Others (also Booker shortlisted - in 2014)
If this book is on your reading list, I recommend you promptly remove it. This is a meandering tale of people, families and a country, all falling apart. While this theme alone could have had much potential, in Desai's hands it turns into a meditation on hopelessness and depression. The book might be lyrical or technically well put together but it leaves the reader feeling empty and the words never take on any greater meaning or provide any greater experience than their own shabby existence on the page. The book, like its subject, never really comes to life.
This is not, I admit, a mode that I enjoy much anymore -- very serious, lyrical, the uncovering of past tragedies and hurts, lots of interior family dynamics.
Never a playful moment, never a wink or a laugh, or even much joy.
On the other hand, this book does this mode as well as or better than any I've seen, so I have to give the author credit: she knows what she is about.
The interest of the book grows, also, over time; layers and layers of complexity are revealed and draw you in just as you thought the book was simpler than it is.
Autrice per me sconosciuta, romanzo che mai avevo sentito nominare, ma il mio istinto mi diceva che dovevo leggerlo....e non ha sbagliato.
Delicato, profondo, simbolico confronto tra due sorelle indiane che si ritrovano dopo diversi anni e sono costrette a fare i conti col proprio passato, con le scelte che hanno segnato la loro vita, con i loro rancori, le paure mai confessate, le ferite mai riemarginate.
Sullo sfondo la storia dell'India prima e dopo l'Indipendenza, la sua divisone dal Pakistan, la morte di Gandhi.
Storia personale e quadro di una cultura e di una società.
Tara, the youngest daughter, has come home with her husband to spend a few days in her childhood home visiting her sister, Bimla, and their mentally challenged brother, Baba.
Although Bimla claims she is satisfied with her life, she harbors a torrent of anger and resentment toward her siblings, especially Raja because she feels abandoned by him, and Tara because she married a diplomat and has become a well-traveled socialite.
She eventually finds a way out of her environment by marrying a diplomat.This is a story about family, about the sibling rivalries, guilt, frustrations, petty jealousies, and cruelties experienced during childhood continuing to haunt well into adulthood.
It really liked the blurp from the 1st Mariner books edition (2000): "While the primary theme is the importance of family, other predominant themes include the importance of forgiveness, the power of childhood, and the status of women, particularly their role as mothers and caretakers, in modern day India." Very interesting, but in my humble opinion, a little bit too sensitive for the logical brain I have, so I'll give it a 4 for premise.Regarding the form, I really struggled in the first 90 pages where almost nothing happened, except for two sisters talking to each other about events from their past and family.
The younger sister and her diplomat husband visit their old house where the elder, unmarried sister and their youngest brother (who is mentally retarded and does almost nothing but plays records in his old gramophone) still live.
If not, the old house watch them die with friends they had managed to keep.The sister who visits has travelled around the world with her husband, while her sister who never left has kept their small childhood world, teaching in a local school for her upkeep.
Set against the dismal, crumbling world of Old Delhi, Desai's novel is a wise portrayal of a family that, like so many families, is threatening to come apart.
Time and the inevitable mistakes and misunderstandings that come with time's passage weigh heavily on two sisters, Bim and Tara.
Tara is the sister who left, seeking a new world far beyond Delhi's confines.
But in the end, the two move toward one another, as Bim, the more reflective of the two, realizes that in the end families, whatever conflict they may have, are part of a single living organism and therefore have more in common with one another than they have with anyone else.
(I wrote this in sleepy conditions..)Right Review here: www.bookaapi.com/book-review/clear-light-of-day-by-anita-desai/The book is divided in 4 parts. First part and the last part is of present and the middle two were of past.The story is of 4 siblings. Bimla, Tara, Raja and Baba (special care).When Tara come back to India, she finds Bim living a very low life. Bim was the eldest of the one and she has to take care of the others after her parents death. While doing so, she forgets to herself. She is holding grudges against her brother and Tara too because they all had left her.Complete Review
This is the second book I have read by Anita Desai. I am not sure what it is but we don't seem to make a good author/reader connection. While I liked this story, I just wasn't riveted nor did I see the broader connection to India's history probably because the author didn't give me enough information. Darn it, I really tried to like it but she just didn't have me at hello like other books do.
I was disappointed in this book about contemporary Indian life compared one aging sister from America re-visits her Indian family who still sit, numbly in the old, flaking mason and suffer with sighs on the shadowy green lit veranda.
I've read a fair bit of wonderful contemporary Indian fiction over the last few years where the characters, plot and descriptions reveal everything to the reader in gorgeous prose and surprising revelations.
Nothing really changes from beginning to end except there is more repetition of the existence they all lead now.
It's not terrible, just daily cliches.
I wrote a long review of this book, but it was lost as the result of a stray keystroke that caused it to be deleted and the screen modified.
Rather than spend another hour trying to recover my thoughts, I will only say that I loved this book.
It is a study of a woman named Bimla Das who opts, instead of going out into the world like two of her siblings, to take care of the members of the family who need the care.
It was short-listed for the Booker Prize and, to my view, should have won it.
I must read more of her books.
They know their own troubles, and while older brother Raja gets politically involved, he gets involved in an entirely adolescent way: a romantic, poetic, heroic, completely unrealistic involvement that's cut short when he gets TB and has to spend a year in bed.I felt for both Bim and Tara, I was willing to get involved in their POVs and their problems, and what I really enjoyed was that while the story is set in India in and around Independence, it isn't about that.
The pace was very slow and the setting was entirely within the confines of the family house in Delhi.When Tara comes home to visit her family, together with her husband and children, the silence and dust of the years are both disturbed and old memories are stirred.
The story is set during the time of the partition of India and although I did learn quite a lot from it, it was so subtly included among the hum drum daily life that I was hardly aware of it.The description of the dusty old house and the somewhat neglected garden, with its still sweet scented flowers, was so well done that I could see it, also whilst reading I could feel the horrid overpowering heat, dust and humidity of the Indian summer.
The younger Tara, who only thought of escaping her family, who loves them still but suffocates in her house, tries hard to make peace between her feuding brother and sister.In a book filled with beautiful description of time and place, of a claustrophobic atmosphere, I found the siblings themselves slightly undefined.
I don't think of myself as someone who wants everything explained and given to me over a platter, but I thought this book left too many things unexplored, far too many things went unsaid.
Also, an irrelevant observation, I don't think the book ever uses the phrase clear light of day, but there are several mentions of bright light of day.
Nu pentru că am prea mult timp, nu dintr-o curiozitate capricioasă şi în nici un caz din cauza condiţiilor meteo.
A fost vorba de o foarte personală meteorologie a lecturii, pentru că în ultimii doi ani, la sfîrşitul lui ianuarie îmi strîngeam bine rucsacul de şireturi şi plecam în India.
În subteranul aceste poveşti – una de familie în fond, concentrată pe alegerile unei femei care a refuzat algoritmii cutumelor sociale – am regăsit ceva foarte cunoscut, ceva ce m-a preocupat observînd oameni şi relaţii cît timp am putut să văd un strop din India, la faţa locului: puterea legăturilor de familie şi modul în care ele se impun, într-un final, indiferent de alegerile individului.

4.5 stars, an excellent character study of four siblings, exquisitely written and full of life, it's a book about forgiveness and healing that leaves the reader soothed at the end but without a stereotypical happy ending. I highly recommend this one.
disgusting, overrated, useless abundance of descriptive details, shallow characters, lifeless plot, do not read it unless u have to.
4.75!
