https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1058610.Monte_Cassino
To be honest, before I read this book I had no idea a tremendous artillery battle was fought at Monte Cassino during the Allied invasion of Italy.
It seems the history of the monastery at Monte Cassino stretches back centuries before St. Thomas' arrival.The Allied bombardment destroyed the monastery, reducing it to a hole in the ground much more effectively than anything ISIS has done lately.WWII has become something for me to grapple with, but is too much for me to grasp.
From Sven Hassel's books you can think that the author fought on nearly every possible front of World War II - Stalingrad, Italy, Warsaw, France. But he presents the soldier's life as it can be during brutal fights. Good read.
E' un romanzo di nuova generazione per Argberg, perché è un libro che ha una trama a sé stante, differente dagli altri che pretendevano di essere soltanto delle narrazioni di vita vissuta durante la Seconda guerra mondiale.
Nella citazione dell'assalto con i Tigre, Argberg dice giustamente che chi guida un carro armato, guida uno strumento di morte: non si fanno prigionieri, le macchine, anche se guidate da uomini, non fanno prigionieri.
Il romanzo termina con la descrizione del tremendo massacro che più di tutti, nell'arco della Seconda guerra mondiale, assomigliò alla Verdun della Prima.
I've read so many of Sven Hassel's war stories.
All I do know is that I read and loved the characters of Porta, Tiny, The Old Man (Sometimes The Old Un) With Sven telling the story in the first person singular.
The author participates in the deadly and horrific battles.
The black humour during the lull of the fighting can give the reader real gut-busting laughs.
Sometimes the violence leaves the reader feeling cold and disgusted.
The battle scenes take no prisoners.
So to any potential reader; this is pulp war fiction with a difference.
It is not cosy cartoon violence.
I have read all Sven Hassel's penal battallion books, but this one struck a chord as a great uncle was killed at Cassino, fighting for New Zealand. Really interesting reading a novel from the other side, and the tactic (snd ultimate folly) of bombing a historic monastery is explored.
I was bored to death. The narration moves very slowly. It is also very difficult to follow. The scenes are somewhat realistic, but the weak points of the novel make it unbearable to read.
The battle over Monte Casino was one of the bloodiest of the WW II and no doubt Hassel decided to put his band there.
Sven, Porta, Tiny, Barcelona and others were fighting for survival against masses of Allied forces and yes they managed it again.
Sven discovered delights of Rome and walking there with two syphilitic sailors made it even more saucy in a very wrong way.
Hassel is his brutal self and the blood and gore is flowing freely and in its gruesome it is very anti-war.
He showed us that there were also brave German soldiers who fought for their country.
"- Gnäll inte, Schmaus, flinade Heide. Ni judar, som överlever, kommer nog att få hämnd. Ni blir heliga och fridlysta. Det skulle inte förvåna mig, ifall det blir förbjudet att kalla er för judar. Adolf gör er en tjänst. Ni kommer att få hämnd på katolikerna. Dem hatar ni ju lika mycket som Heydrich och Himmler hatar dem. Jag tycker mig se i andanom, att ni kommer att beskylla påven för att gasat judarna.- Det kommer ingen ärlig jude att göra, protesterade Grapa.- Det finns inga ärliga judar, flinade Heide."
It’s been forty years since I read this work but what impressed me most was when the group was attempting to free a Tiger from the mud and the towing cable snapped, severing one of their mates. The next thing I know, the books goes missing. My parents had confiscated it saying “it didn’t depict the war and I had no business reading such garbage.” Four months later I found it and went into hiding till I was finished. It was, and still is, an excellent read detailing the daily lives of soldiers fighting for survival. Will reread again.
Evidently, I adore this book also, as I do all of Hassel's. I think it's amazing how he is able to describe a bloody, cruel scene with such macabre details, and still make it seem philosophy. So much entertainment, but it's still trying to teach you some life lessons!
Not the best entry in the series. The narrative seems to drag on forever. And what is up with US marines in Italy?
not impressed so far
Am not really one for war, but you can't help but fall for the rouge characters in Svens stories. They draw you in.
Great bookI have read all of Sven Hassel books. This is on of my favourites. It shows the total brutality of war and what a waste of life it is.
brutal and often insane, especially in a penal unit where they have nothing to lose and have to fight the enemy and their own army.
Monte Cassino by Sven Hassel (1969)
