https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/334176.The_Sparrow
I would instead call it a spiritual book in that the journey involves time old questions, of faith, of God, of religion, of humanity.
And that morality and goodness has its place even outside any type of established religion.This was also one of the best first contact books - because The Sparrow is far more than just a question of what God is or isn't, but more so a fascinating study of anthropology.
What a strange, accomplished nautilus of a novel, every chamber containing both joy and tragedy.
I feared -- many times over while reading The Sparrow -- that my disappointment would be complete.The Sparrow is so good, you see, that as I moved from moment to moment, following Father Emilio Sandoz’s broken narrative, I was sure that there was no way Russell could deliver on the promise of her writing.
The man goes on answering questions, going through the action we expect of him, totally oblivious to what is coming, thus letting the audience worry about the bomb.
Each human culture provides a different set of answers to those questions, but deity is nearly always embedded in the Why."The above quote is from Mary Doria Russell in her Afterword of this brilliant novel.
Russell certainly won’t give you any answers to these questions, but she will give you plenty of intellectual food for thought.
Father Emilio Sandoz is a Jesuit priest… but wait, don’t run away quite yet!
Aside from Emilio Sandoz, there are a number of other characters that are a pleasure to get to know.
Even worse, making the first third of your story foreshadowing with nothing happening is I think promising a payoff that is so large that I don't see at this point how she can deliver a sufficiently big twist or epiphany to justify it.There are a lot of things to like about this book - its witty intelligent dialogue, its ambition, and its quality prose.
And, I found it difficult to believe that Emilio, who has lived such a hard brutal life, if he had any faith, would let simple Latin male machismo get in the way.As a science fiction book, the story fails for several reasons, not the least of which is none of the participants seems to be particularly skilled in hard sciences.
A group led by Jesuit priests travels to a planet near Alpha Centauri after alien singing is picked up from interspace radio signals.
This is a beautifully written novel with brilliant characterization (really the greatest strength of the novel) that is poignant in its narrative and painfully brutal in its inevitable path towards a tragedy that is interwoven throughout the bittersweet story.
The look back sections are also difficult to read as the priest struggles with his ability to deal with the psychological damage of the trip and his return.
The reader will also be led down a theological path of discovery, questions and hard fought resolutions.
This is the third SF story I've read where a Jesuit priest goes on an expedition to another planet and suffers a spiritual crisis as a result.
There's a deeply buried time-capsule planted by the alien civilization which was destroyed by the explosion.
There's this planet populated by a race of lizard-like aliens.
It's bad enough keeping track of the theology, without getting involved in physics too.________________________________________PPS And continuing my geeky thought: if the engines are powerful enough to accelerate the asteroid at 1 g, it follows that they could lift it against Earth's gravity.
Mary Doria Russell chooses the genre of science fiction to dramatize one human being's dark night of the soul and it's certainly the most imaginative account of a spiritual crisis I've ever read.
We learn early on that only one member of the crew survives and returns to Earth.
The narrative alternates between the voyage and life on Rakhat and the Vatican interrogation of the surviving crew member.
I wasn't entirely convinced taking us inside the head of an alien wasn't a similar kind of act of hubris nor was I convinced we needed this small part of the novel.
The Rakhat expedition is the first of its kind; Emilio's linguistic adventures with remote groups of humans are the closest anyone comes to having first contact experience.
If anything, the love triangle had the reverse effect, for it added another dimension to Emilio's struggle with his faith in God. He goes to Rakhat because he knows that, somehow, he has spent his whole life preparing for this mission.
The Jana'ata crack down on the Runa village where the expedition has been staying, and Marc and Emilio become dependent upon the good will of Supaari.
Not due to the "shocking" ending, which I would have welcomed somewhere around page two.
There's still more than 100 pages left?
God, damn it.I can only imagine Ms. Russell's thought process went a little something like this:"Now I want to set this book in the future, but I don't actually want to go to the effort of developing a rich, textured, and believable future society.
I'll have all my main characters be obsessed with the 20th century!
I mean, anyone reading my book will HAVE to think my main character is witty if all my other characters say he's witty.
I love when I skim through pages of reviews of a book and they are nearly all either 5 stars or one star.
This is a really good book.The Sparrow is science fiction with class.
It is well written, there is a satisfying amount of science fiction and then there is a whole lot more besides.
I loved the humour in the early days when Emilio and Anne and George first get together and I nearly cried in the later stages several times.A lot of people comment on the fact that the book is about religion.
“Not one sparrow can fall to the ground without your Father knowing it.” (Matthew 10:29)“But the sparrow still falls.”  I think the second sentence in the above quote (from page 401) basically says “shit happens”. It does encapsulate the major theme of the novel quite well I think.The Sparrow is one of those books I hear people raving about and immediately put on my TBR list, but it won’t stay there quietly as I keep hearing about it almost on a weekly basis. So I have to capitulate or go mad a
It does encapsulate the major theme of the novel quite well I think.The Sparrow is one of those books I hear people raving about and immediately put on my TBR list, but it won’t stay there quietly as I keep hearing about it almost on a weekly basis.
I had no idea the book has a dual timeline and initially I made the mistake of not paying any attention to the date indicated at beginning of the chapters and had to backtrack.
While it is certainly a science fiction novel the emphasis is not on the sci-fi-ness of first contact with aliens, it is more an exploration of faith.
Most often, it was Dr. Emilio Sandoz, linguist, scholar..." The passage ends with the final devastating revelation about Jana'ata manipulation of Runa breeding, leading off with "It was Mephistopheles who laughed." Brilliant.For me, the sour notes surround the pacing at the end of the book and the theme of rape.
The deaths of D.W. and Anne seemed too important to be disposed of so quickly, both in story line and in page numbers.
I think the horror of their having been "poached" would have further set up the shock of the storyline, of discovering the Jana'ata are predators of the Runa population.
If I wanted to read about sexual slavery, rape, gang rape, and gang rape with an audience, I'd just read the news everyday.
Actually, I do read the news every day.
It always blows my mind that SF-F authors - who can write about ANYTHING, no limits - often choose to return to stuff like sexual slavery.This is not entertainment for me.
It is real life, it is every day, and it is NOT what I seek out in my fiction.Russell is a great writer - this one-star is not a reflection of her writing.
If I knew sexual slavery and gang rape were the punchline to this novel, I'd never have read it.
In 2022, Emilio and seven other crew members board the Stella Maris to explore the recently-discovered planet Rakhat.
The story of what happened to the crew had been relayed by another mission that followed a few years behind the Stella Maris.
I’ve been thinking hard about this in the days since I finished The Sparrow and I struggle to come up with more than a few titles of books that have been as holistic a reading experience, in which my every literary need and desire have been so exquisitely satisfied.
Irritating. Irritating prose, irritating philosophizing, intensely irritating structure, and SUPREMELY irritating characters. Honestly, a more annoying set of self-satisfied "witty" bourgeois assholes you will not find.
Meaning of life and faith for the poor unsaved brothers from other systems kind of thing.But actually, what I received was a prototypical near-LitSF that was erudite, humorous, full of likable and complex characters, and a full-blown excellent novel in structure, prose, and thriller-type twists.And yes, there is also a lot about aliens, tragedy, loss of faith, and especially rape.We know it's a tragedy before we even really begin.

Dang it!I was NOT in the mood to give another scathing review of a book, especially not a book that has a near cultish fan following, as this one does.This is a seriously beloved book (with a 4.17 overall rating).But, for the first time in my existence on this planet, I'm going to quote Whitesnake:Here I go again on my own Goin' down the only road I've ever knownLike a drifter I was born to walk alone.
Then on that page, there's a brief moment of glory in the plot, and I thought to myself.
I look at life so differently from the central character Emilio Sandoz but he is a very compelling and understandable character.As a Jewish woman but not a religious or spiritual person, while there’s a lot of talk about G-d and religion I was able to find meaning in the philosophizing in the book and consider this book more about human (and sentient being) nature, which I know has to do with my own point of view.I thought it was a almost a treatise on inter-cultural understanding, and misunderstanding, and even for those who don’t like science fiction readers could look at it as an exploration of relationships between human cultures or among different species.
The most difficult thing about reading Mary Doria Russell’s books is just starting them.
If you don’t like war stories you aren’t going to want to read A Thread of Grace.
My response was something along the lines of “Oookayy, what else has she written?” I read and enjoyed A Thread of Grace but continued to put off reading Sparrow.
Finally, eight years later, I picked up a copy and started reading it.
Bottom line: Sparrow is the best book I have read in the last decade, if not longer.
There is no book that I would recommend over this one.
Ben de herkes gibi bu romana bir bilim-kurgu eseri olarak başladım ama bir Kaf dağı hikayesi olarak bitirdim.
Dick romanlarındaki gibi kurgubilimsel bir parodi olarak düşünülebilir ama hiç de değil.
Ben galiba bilimkurgu değil, bilimkurgu elbisesi giymiş eserler okuduğumu düşünüyorum ya da sanıyorum.Romanın böyle klasik giriş-gelişme-sonuç çizgiselliğinden uzak olması da ilgimi çeken başka bir konu.
Ama pek sağlıklı değil galiba.
Dindar birine yakışmayacak derecede aksi ve ağzı bozuk birine dönüşmüş.Hani böyle uzaylılar var mı geyiğine ben de dayanamadım katıldım, roman nedeniyle.
Hem bizim dışımızda varlıklar var olsa bile onların romandaki bir köylü toplumu olma olasılığı daha yüksek.
When extraterrestrial intelligence is confirmed and the Jesuits decide to go find the source of the "singing", this is something that the Jesuits have been preparing Emilio for his whole life.
Most of the crew is made up of friends that Emilio has known for a long time.
These are very intelligent, capable people, almost as if God had this planned.
God and religion are two different things.
It is about Life and Friendship and Possibilities.The ending of The Sparrow makes me very grateful that there is a second book to read, Children of God. The Sparrow is so unique and well written that I definitely want more.
The situation between the natives and the French settlers was tense indeed and, at some point during his mission, Isaac Jogues was captured by a war party of Mohawks.
A group of scientists, among them several Jesuit priests, decide to set out for that distant planet, in a secret mission sponsored by the Roman Catholic Church.
Father Sandoz, as well as most of the characters involved in the interplanetary mission, stand out well, each with their background, with their issues, with their language and outlook on the world.
I was riveted from first to last, and completely bought into the premise: A privately financed interstellar journey never seemed nore likely than in the world Russell posits is coming from our own era.Beautiful, beautiful writing!
The descriptions of Earth's near-enough future were pitch-perfect to my ears as well, though a lot less beautiful in the images they left behind.The disquieting images of the near future, and the horrible fate of Emilio (the main character), are inextricably linked in my mind with Russell's richly drawn alien culture and its customs.
I was frustrated by the subordinate characters' incompleteness, and then the aliens' glancing treatment; but that really points up the good quality of the writing!
The characters had absolutely no clue, no situational awareness of what was going on around them.
A real astronaut, hell, Captain Picard himself would never have made the bonehead moves these characters make in a first contact situation, and then--then!
Any scientist, no, make that anyone who made it through freshman biology could have told Russell that it is a mathematical impossibility that two species that evolved separately on planets lightyears apart would never be able to physically copulate, let alone rape for pleasure.
Having said that (again) she knows how to write, and perhaps will be able to construct a convincing narrative on another topic.
kitap son sayfaya kadar akıcı ve merak uyandırıcıydı. yazara hakkını vermek lazım bu konuda. Emilio Sandoz'un yaşadıkları, deneyimleri, iç çatışmaları, hayal kırıklıkları ve vicdan muhasebesi dolu dolu hissedildi. kitap çokça hıristiyanlık kokuyor diyenlere olaylar zaten cizvit'ler üzerine kurulu, yani çok normal diyebilirim. okurken nötr olursanız çok daha fazla zevk alırsınız.
As a wannabe history buff, I was titillated by the idea of taking a religious organisation as anachronistic as the Catholic Church and launching them to an alien planet on a mission to spread the word of God.Sadly, I was disappointed to find that the potential was squandered.Many pages are dedicated to the relationship between spiritualism and celibacy.
A great amount of the story is spent establishing the landscape of their intimacies and personal history, so I found myself wanting to speed through it just so that I could get to the meat of the piece – That moment, I was sure, when the existential certainty of the Catholics would be warped by the completely alien outlook of another intelligent species.The book almost tackled the prospect.
Emilio Sandoz, a Jesuit priest, has returned from humanity' first mission to contact aliens - the sole survivor.
We see the formation of the mission and its goals - and nothing indicates how Sandoz, seemingly a good, moral, and truly dedicated man, could have sunk to the depths that it is alleged that he did...
It is clear that Russell expects her readers to be able to infer such questions, but I still feeloverall that the book is too sympathetic to missionaries in general.
Although it's a story about a Jesuit mission to an alien planet, the focus is more on the question of faith.The novel uses a non-linear storytelling device, so in the first few pages you know the outcome - Emilio Sandoz has returned to earth alone and broken, and scandalous stories about a dead child and a brothel have preceded him.
His superiors attempt to extract the full story from him - there are hints that the scandals have had a disastrous effect on the Church.Despite knowing the end result, I found the slow reveal of the "how" and "why" totally fascinating.
