https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/522776.The_Wolf_of_Wall_Street
This is not to say that I did not enjoy elements of Belfort's story and there are moments of pure comedy as he recalls his lifestyle in the early 1990s as a banker and power broker, making more than enough money to support an entitled spouse, a routine drug habit and a chorus line of working girls.
Belfort however could be in any line of work and this reader grew tired of him repeating (word-for-word across dozens of chapters) his admiration of his wife's buttocks and his conspicuously desperate claims that he lived, worked and partied harder than anybody else.
What a fucking douchebag.
Belfort is an unrepentant asshole and if I ever meet him, I'll kick him in the taint.
This memoir smacks of "but it wasn't really my fault!" Lying douchebag liar.It's people like him, stock-washing and junk-bond trading in the late 1980's onward that led to the crash in 2008.
And I have a huge problem with that.
He and his ilk nearly brought the planet's economy to its knees and we will be paying the price for years, while he collects royalties on this extremely poorly written book and the probably-revolting movie.I am infuriated and contemptuous.Also, not ever buying a pair of Steve Madden shoes.
She is a person, asshole.
While that was  true enough for me to read the entire thing, my personal enjoyment of the narrative began to tank somewhere in the first third, when it became clear that Belfort is a complete narcissistic, unrepentant asshole, and one of the most vile human beings on this earth.
I hoped that what followed might include Belfort actually taking some responsibility for the terrible things he did to his family, his clients, and the economy.
Belfort has this weird penchant for giving every person he encounters in his life a nickname that he then refers to them as for the rest of the book in narrative voice.
I’d heard about (but not seen) the Scorsese film, starring Leonardo DiCaprio, concerning this Wall Street guy who basically made a huge amount of money, took bucket loads of drugs and ripped off a group of wealthy investors.
Well, I’d spent my working life as a small-time retail banker so I couldn’t help but be drawn to a story purporting to be a true life account of a rogue banker gone wild.
After college he found work as an entry level assistant in a Wall Street brokerage firm and quickly realised that the place was more ‘zoo’ than office.

The story of his rise and fall on Wall Street.
The bad stuff he does wasn't his fault.
The good stuff is because he's a genius.
I'll list the words and phrases, you can rearrange them and save yourself the time of reading or listening to this book.
(The audio version is unintentionally hilarious as the narrator attempts English, French, Swiss and Chinese accents and they all sound exactly the same.1.
every single time.9.
Brain Stem.
Every thought or idea "rises up my brain stem" 10.
He said it so often I thought the audio was repeating itself.
Reading this book will make you feel like a a drug addict.
I've never tried Quaaludes, but by the end of reading this book I wanted to cry and apologize to everyone I knew for my addiction to them...
Then they blew all of that money on drugs, hookers, expensive clothes and vacations.
Like most memoirs about drug use and abuse, this story reminds you that it is basically impossible to live out the seemingly awesome parts of his life without crashing down spectacularly, shattering those that you love, yourself and your business.
I respect people that can own up to their bullshit than those who only talk about their struggles and act like they have never indulged in acts that society would frown upon because of their wealthy.
This guy lived his life to the fullest, the only sad thing is that he hurt people in the process but again we all do that but pretend to act like we are so pure when in the public space.
I listened to the audio book and I'm not sure how the narrator could bring himself to even talk about these things without being ashamed.
All that together adds up to this book.This man has no respect for women, has barely any respect for anyone, really.
(I've read that the movie Boiler Room is loosely based on this douche.) Surprisingly, there was more of the douchebaggery that I mentioned above than there is of his illegal activities in the stock market.
Anyway, I was slightly fascinated with the level of debauchery achieved, and that was the only thing that kept me reading.
Recommend for fans of debauchery at the highest levels.
I picked up this book after hearing that my main man Marty Scorsese was going to make it into a movie. I think it'll be one of those rare books that will be better as a movie, as the writing is subpar and the author (and main protaganist) is thoroughly unlikable. It's about the rise and fall of a luded and coked-out, hooker-obsessed stock trader. I know, sounds sweet, right? Eh, not so much.
What did I think?
I thought this book was terrible.I read "The Wolf of Wall Street" after my husband finished (and assured me I would enjoy it), while on holiday far far away from a decent bookshop.This whole book read like the wet dreams of an aspiring stock market king.
Which I probably would have been able to deal with, had the story been interesting enough and well written enough to make up for it.
But nope, its repetitive, boastful to the point of vulgarity and poorly written.
This could have been an excellent story.
The fact that Belfort thanks his literary agent in the acknowledgements, who apparently read three pages and told Belfort to "drop everything I was doing and become a full-time writer" is a complete joke.
Belfort makes himself seem like a god and a victim, and the fact that he's a vile human being would almost be acceptable if he could write a damn sentence.
This will probably do really well as a movie, but I was annoyed the majority of the time I was reading the book.
I gave this book a shot, and I am glad that I did.The Wolf of Wall Street is compulsive reading.
Jordan is called the Wolf of Wall Street because his young age and youthful appearance contrast with his cut throat business methods and erratic behavior.
He launders money and plots ways to destroy other people through the stock market.
How could someone sink a 170-ft yacht in the middle of the Mediterranean Sea?The Wolf of Wall Street and his band of enablers during his “glory days” were some of the most despicable people I have ever heard of.
It is a psuedo-autobiography of Jordan Belfort, the guy about whom the movie was made.
Jordan Belfort wrote this book as a sort of autobiography, or memoirs.
As he writes in the book, this is the story of the "rich and dysfunctional."Belfort was a drug addict and earned incredible amounts of money--like a million dollars every week--as the owner of the brokerage firm Stratton Oakmont.
He knew how to talk to people because at heart he was a salesman.
He knew how to persuade people to do anything, anything at all.
And his enormous wealth and generosity certainly didn't hurt.The stories in the book are incredibly outlandish.
The Wolf of Wall Street offers an eye-opening and at times harrowing glimpse at the cutthroat world of big business, and how one man found himself wrapped up in the underlying corruption and greed of his day-to-day life.
Basically, Jordan Belfort is every horrible Wall Street broker stereotype from the late 80's you can imagine, and this memoir is him retelling the period of his life that marks the seeds of his eventual downfall.
They still get away with massive fraud.) By the end of it, I didn't feel better for his getting sober, or finally having to face up to his crimes.
He represented everything that was wrong with American greed, and was a painful reminder that the same type of criminals are still alive and well, getting paid by US citizens to commit their white collar crimes now.
Fun drinking game: try to read The Wolf of Wall Street and drinking for when one or more of the following appears on the page: 1) mention of erections; 2) how much something costs; 3) the use of the acronym WASP. Take a shot if the phrase "loamy loins" is used. By the time you are done you should be thoroughly sloshed enough to put up reading this piece of crap.
I was thoroughly entertained by this audiobook. The narrator was almost as good as watching the movie. This lifestyle is so over-the-top that it just has be true! I don't begrudge him his money, because he lived hard. Too, too hard.
No puedo decir que me haya encantado, me gustó, pero definitivamente no es un libro que considere digno de una relectura.
No me malinterpreten, la narrativa es fluída, pero siento que el relato es un poco desordenado, es como si estuvieses en una reu y Jordan estuviese por más de 1hr contándo sobre sus estafas, aventuras y adicción a las drogas, puede ser muy interesante todo su relato, pero llega un momento que te aburres de tanta perorata.
Considero que es un libro que debes leer solo si te interesa conocer sobre la alocada vida de un multimillonario estafador y adicto de la vida real, no esperes encontrar recursos narrativos atrapantes, recuerda que el autor no es un escritor.
It is rare that I praise a book the way I will praise Wolf of Wall Street.
The storyline is appalling and will make you shake your fist.But for all the outrage, this is a superbly written book that killed me - I laughed a lot and often.
Ranging from wild tales of drug use, treatment of stock brokers, rigging the system and how to engineer a stock run, the Wolf of Wall Street gives you the real ins and outs to what went wrong in the US financial system.The tale hits high moments between our protagonist and the Duchess, as well as some great moments that had me howling involving "The Cobbler".
I rarely ever give up on books, but I put this one down about 1/3 of the way through. Belfort is a very poor writer ("luscious loamy loans" is a repetitive descriptor), he repeatedly refers to himself in the third person, and is a thoroughly unlikeable protagonist. I hope Scorsese does a better job telling the story on film than he does in this book.
Basically what I expected. The tag lines on the cover say it all.Full review moved to http://covers2covers.wordpress.com/
The Wolf of Wall Street by Jordan Belfort was an interesting novel that left me completely disinterested.As someone going into business, this book intrigued me.
This book is said to be non-fiction, but Jordan Belfort's opening lines at the beginning of the book also say he may or may not have changed the timelines, which lead me to believe it's not 100% accurate.
It was slow paced, then it would suddenly pick up pace for two pages, and go back to boring again.That being said, Jordan's life is definitely worth a read - but maybe by a different author?
Overall, I'm sure Jordan's life was and is interesting, but his story could have been told better.
Well, you’re either going to love this book or hate it.
It’s not going to give you an education on the mechanics of the stock market.
However, it will give you an entertaining education on what took place on Wallstreet in the 90’s and the over the top characters that flourished within it.I personally loved the book and I couldn’t put it down.
Maybe it’s because I work in a similar industry and these type of characters and ego’s are not that unimaginable to me.
If you don’t take life too seriously and you’re not easily offended then I’d highly recommend this book to you.
From what I listened to (and the narrator was hilarious; he really knew how to do some acting as well, which made me feel like I was really in the arguments, which were hilarious) it's the same stuff as in the movie.
Me no likey.Listening to it means that I had to know that these were the legitimate thoughts of a fellow male, who honestly believed the shit they were spewing about women wearing clothes because they wanted to get fucked or that a black pussy is sweeter than a white pussy, but white pussy is still better because it's white.
This book begins with a disclaimer of sorts by Belfort about his memories of the events.
He put it all out there but in the end what is that really worth when the rest of the book is not all that good.I bought this at a book sale for two dollars and still felt like I had been robbed by Jordan Belfort.
I tried with this one but I had to stop before I finished.
I just didn't care.
I don't mind reading about an anti-hero but this guy does not think he's an anti-hero.
He's an ass but throughout all of his antics is his bro humor.
He's just so so impressed with himself.
Also, it's just terribly written.
He uses the word "loins" so many times.
If I got a dollar for every "loins" I would have made a killing.
I wonder if Jordan wrote this with a thesaurus nearby.
He uses big words when not necessary.
He says someone wears perfume insouciantly.
On page 492 Jordan's therapist said,"I think you should figure out a way to put your abilities to good use; figure out some way where you get your message across, except this time do it for the greater good, not to corrupt people." This quote shows the paradigm shift in Jordan's life where he chooses to end is dysfunctional lifestyle and live the rest of his life in a far more beneficial way to society.
This is a good book for high school students because it shows how ones lives can become out of control when one becomes absorbed in one's success.
A case study for the value of a talented ghost writer, The Wolf Of Wall Street misses the mark on so many levels.
The story telling starts with promise, as a young Belfort is inducted into the Wall Street community in expected fashion, but the insider narrative is neglected from this moment on.
The appeal of The Wolf Of Wall Street is to explore how Belfort's experience differs from the reader.
For those of us from corporate backgrounds, there is a powerful curiosity in the question of how Belfort's life differs from our collective experience.
Didn't manage to get to the end of this one... too many exclamation marks blocking my journey from start to finish. I imagine Jordan Belfort has a good story to tell but he shouldn't be the one telling it... I think he should've commissioned someone to write his biography, or at least someone with a basic grasp of story telling. Also, what's with all the gratuitous, overly-detailed sex scenes? Goodness, I'm going to start blushing again. Terrible. Hours of my life wasted, never to be seen again. Sad.
