https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/399597.The_Bobbsey_Twins_Mystery_on_the_Deep_Blue_Sea
Another cute adventure that is just fun to read.
I read these books as a child and loved them. I came across a hardcover 1918 edition of this title and inside the cover is written in a child's handwriting: Bud Cone 3906 2nd Ave. So. Minn.Bud, if you're out there, I have your book.
all the Bobbsey Twins books are.Loved it.
Great read.
Love the family atmosphere and fun.
Wonderful memories of my childhood and the happy days I had reading these the first time.
"And the little Bobbsey twin had really caught a fish.
This fish of Freddie's was so large that it had swallowed the doll, which was tied fast on the end of the line, and once the doll was in it's stomach the fish could not get loose from the heavy cord." (location 1140)The Bobbsey Twins series is great for elementary school students to read alone...
and GREAT for family read aloud time.
This is the first book I've read in the series. I had never noticed the apostrophe after twins so I was surprised that there were two sets of twins. The story is cute and targeted for a younger age group than Nancy Drew, but the writing level seems to be about the same. Thee are some things that a modern reader might flinch at, like Mrs. Bobseys description of a native Jamaican boy as a monkey climbing a tree. However, beyond that, it is a good read, more challenging than other fare.
I read every Bobbsey Twins adventures I could get my hands on from the age of 9 through 11. Summers were wonderful and I could borrow from the library and read these books. I could borrow 8 books every 2 weeks. Soon, I needed more than that and had to fight the librarian for more books. Now, I can do 8 books in a day. Sigh.
I spent a week or more at my Grandparents during the summer. They had all the Bobbsey Twin books and many Nancy Drew books. So I would lay in my Grandmother's garden and read. I remember enjoy all of the adventure of the Bobbsey Twins.
I loved these books when I was a kid!
Read older version at the time.
SM
