https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59881.Family_Album
Great story! a fun and interesting read with some good characters and also well written (paperback!)
Enjoyable read! long lasting storyline...awesome writing (paperback!)
Lord....this was my first Danielle Steel book I've ever read and it was pretty much what I expected.
Everyone's beautiful, blonde (or the rare ginger), dazzling, with blue or green eyes.
A rags to riches back to rags back to riches story.
I don't know if her books have change over the last 30 years, but she seems to have a weird obsession with disparate age differences when it comes to many of the romantic relationships and sexual encounters in this book.
The book covered the 40s through the 80s - predominantly the 40s and 60s.
I pictured Danielle Steel typing her manuscript in her big hair and shoulder pads while Dynasty or Falcon Crest played on her TV.
I went through a Danielle Steel phase in my prepubescent years. Lining multiple shelves on my mom's bookcase, they were readily available. This is the only one that sticks out in my memory, and that's because I think it actually had more to offer than the quickly-read-and-forget-so-that-you-won't-remember-that-in-the-three-months-time-it-takes-for-the-next-Danielle-Steel-novel-to-come-out-you-won't-recall-that-the-story-has-been-recycled.Okay, maybe that's a bit unfair. Maybe Danielle Steel isn't that bad. Another book of hers I read around the same time and was moved by just came to mind: Kaleidoscope.
Enjoyed this when I read it years ago.
I loved every minute of Family Album. One of my favorite books by Danielle Steel. My second novel I've read by her. Great story and characters. I will definitely be reading more by this author.
In the past I've read several Danielle Steel books and have always enjoyed them, but it's been ages since I've read one.
The story was the type I like to read - following a family over the years.
In this case the time period was the 1940's - 80's starting with WWII and Hollywood glamour.
This book was a little more controversal on the family subjects it touched: drugs, homosexuality, flower children in the Haight, May - December romance, teenage pregnancy.
Also, it began on a sad note with a funeral and ended with the character's death which wasn't the upbeat happily ever after I remember of DS novels.
Overall a good read.
This is a nice book that shows how a brave and courageous woman tries very hard to keep her family united in hard times even when her husband left and the way she handles and manages the problems of her children of different age groups. One of the brilliant writings of the author. The story begins in the decades of second world war and goes till next generation. Overall a good read with a nice family oriented theme.
Wonderful book!!! Just loved reading it!!!One of my favourites and the best book ever read so far.The story is just perfectly complete. One can feel the story and the character.Read this book twice and the more I read the more attached I feel to the story.Will linger for a long time on my mind.Awesome work Danielle Steel, Waiting to read your other books :)
This has to be one of my favorite Danielle Steel books. It was very interesting and talks about how much a single woman has gone through. The drama she encounters through life is incredible. She still manages to keep a positive attitude and that is what's great.
First Danielle Steel novel I've ever read...I didn't favor love stories that much but this book give me some chilling sensation throughout my body...I love the book, the story,...smooth plot...and emotional sensitive bookone of the most brilliant book I ever read
I love this book! I haven't read it in years so I guess it's time for a re-read. Well worth the time.
I read this book again & again because of the couregious women how stive very hard to kept her family together even when her better half left her in hard times all by herself
Family Album is one of those story that once you start reading it you will not be able to put it down. You will forget everything and will enter the world of this family!!!!!

I kind of like Van, Lionel, John and even Val... Faye is a dream. She's strong, soft, determined, patient, strong-willed and head-strong. She's too good for Ward most of the times. Sometimes, they are compatible. Anne, I dont like. Her relationship with Bill, naahhhh, distasteful. All in all, after reading the prolog, I know what will happen to Faye... but I got to just keep reading, wanting to know how the family evolve around the lady. Actually, it's how Faye evolve around her family. Great read.
One of my favorites from Danielle Steele - an "oldie but a goodie" about a family in Hollywood, their ups and downs, trials and tribulations, where most get a happy ending. Great escape read, and one where I genuinely liked the characters (even though some of them were jerks at times, especially Ward). I read this years ago when it first came out, and just re-read it this week. Still good. If you're a DS fan, I would definitely recommend.
Interesting novel that takes place from the end of WWII to Hollywood's finest years. It traces the life of Faye Price and her eventual marriage and her 5 children. Lots of typical family situations of joy and tragedy. Interesting read.
I read this book so long ago a couple of times, but I did not keep the dates. Reading again with my boyfriend. Don’t want to give away any spoilers but it is about to pop off.
This would be a great book for anybody that’s in to history. The lifetime movie was four hours.Available in most accessible options.
Az első D.S., amit olvastam, és azóta is szívem minden szeretete ezé a könyvé, mert... egyszerűen <3 <3 <3 Évente újraolvasós.
Slow pace but I really enjoyed this one. I loved how it followed the life of an entire family. I could see this being adapted into a drama show actually. A great read.
DNF’d this book. Bored me to death.
In the past I've read some Danielle Steel books and have liked a lot. this reminds me of the of my childhood when I had lived in a large family. Here the story begins with 1940 and goes till 80's with the Hollywood actress, her life and way the things changes with certain emotions. It shows the culture of US and the problem there with the children. Some of these problems were high intense that could make you feel uneasy but still I consider it as a decent read that could keep you occupied throughout the story line.
Books “ALBUM KELUARGA”Judul Asli : FAMILY ALBUMCopyright © 2005 by Danielle Steel Penerbit Gramedia Pustaka UtamaAlih Bahasa : Istiani PrajokoDesain sampul : Marcel A.W.Cetakan I : Juli 2005 ; 600 hlm ; ISBN 978-979-22-1412-3 Harga Normal : Rp. 65.000,-Rate : 3.5 of 5Faye Price – bintang muda Hollywood yang sedang naik daun, bukan hanya cantik dan menawan, ia juga memiliki kecerdasan sekaligus kebaikan hati yang membuat dirinya menjadi pujaan masyarakat maupun orang-orang yang mengenal dirinya lebih dekat.
Ward yang kini dikenal oleh Faye, tampaknya telah banyak berubah, lebih matang dan lebih memilih orang-orang yang menjadi teman pergaulannya.
I loved the plot. I was amazed to read that there's a little bit of story about same sex relationship. I really like books with or that have this kind of stories. It was just heartbreaking to know that John died and Greg. And sex scenes were wholesome too (though I really like it if it was detailed hahahaha)Overall, I loved the plot, the twists and ending. Thank you for this story :)
It does take some effort to swallow some of it.The Thayers have gathered to bury the heart of their family and Ward Thayer is devastated to the point of numbness.
From Guadalcanal to the south of France, their love story is like everyone else's - they have their ups and downs, they fight, raise a family, have and lose everything, and love each other through it all.
All that ends when Faye discovers that Ward has been keeping a secret: they have almost nothing left!
and that's just the beginning.The story of the family is realistic; the kids are people you can relate to, despite their wealth, most of the time.
I just came by a stack of old books in my mother's boudoir when I saw this maroon red paperback of Danielle Steel's Family Album.
Nonetheless, it turns out that as I went on, her very superficial character actually made sense in her extravagant life.What's weirder in a romance novel than a family of relationships gone haywire with impossible sensibilities, freaky pedophilia, queer affairs, rebellious behaviors, and some cheesy bits of drama all stacked in one extraordinary household?
It's probably one of the most craziest families in books I've ever read and the reason why I flipped through the pages till the end.
All the members of the Tayer family, Faye's family, found themselves and their roads without no pain.
The flurry of emotions that he felt descovering that he's gay, that his father is contrary to who he's, the pain of losing a dear friend, his family, and then, the strenght for go forward and don't give up, all his emotions reached me.
And I read this book again and again also because of the strenght of Faye, the love for her children and her childish houseband, and beacuse i really love happy ends: also Faye's emotions reached other members of her family.
This is a story about Ward & Faye as they raise five very different children and the ups and downs families go thru.
Well I should say this is a story about Faye as she raises six children because out of all the kids Ward by far was the most spoiled and childish man, husband and father I've seen.
Every time something major affected the family, he got missing because he "couldn't handle it", leaving Faye to always deal with things and keep the family together.
But in the end they remained a strong family in spite of everything that happened.
One of the best Danielle Steel books I have read so far!
