https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/994547.The_Secret_Of_Moon_Castle
Continuing my trip down memory lane, with Enid Blyton. This last book of the series, ironically, was the first one I read. I remember thinking it creepy in a fun way.
This was the my first book ever! My first Enid Blyton book, my first mystery book, my stepping stone to the bibliophile world! The writing and the story had such an impact on my young heart, that I fell head over heals in love with books. for a lifetime! I am avid reader, a reviewer and hopefully will be a writer one day. And all that I am today is because of The Secret of the Moon Castle. I am, like many others, ever indebted to Enid Blyton!
These did age it slightly and it also showed its age with some of the dated language and customs - the notion of a foreign Prince casually going to stay with his English school chums and his mother the Queen sending them all letters asking them to hire a castle so she can come and visit!
Unfortunately I did come across a few typos in my edition as well but mine was quite an early copy so these might not be in all editions of this book.

I don't remember much about the content anymore, but I know that books of Enid Blyton were on my bookshelf at my childhood.
It was mostly mystery that was captivating and round characters (fully developed).
I remember that the ending was always something that I didn't see coming and that is what I liked - this unexpected plot twist and how everything fits together.
The story about an unknown, hidden and sacred castle is something that is a very popular element for a mystery story with some detective elements.
Tāda interesanta (laikam) grāmatu sērija priekš jauniešiem un bērniem. Es domāju, ka bērnībā man pašam tādu patiktu lasīt. Ir nedaudz naivuma un ar savu smadzeni es šo to varu paredzēt, bet bērns ir sajūsmā (5 gadi).
As always..superb adventure book by Enid Blyton. Her writing is so charming that you feel a warmth, happiness in her stories. Whenever I read, I can always connect to those adventures, tea, biscuits, pillow fights as if I am present there. Can't wait to read the next one. :)
Enid does it again! A thoroughly satisfying read. I can't wait to introduce my children to Jack, Peggy, Mike, Nora and Paul. Well done indeed!
The opening chapter feels far more like the start of a Famous Five adventure, with exclamations of "Gosh" and "I say" for the first time in this series.
It ticks along perfectly nicely in tried and tested Blyton fashion, but it really seems to me to be more like a Famous Five mystery than a Secret adventure, as it feels much more contained and less epic than the four previous entries in the series.On the whole, then, this is a typical and decent Enid Blyton adventure that feels rather out of place in the series it concludes.
This typical Blyton romp starts with four children and their friend, Prince Paul of Baronia, tucking into a calorific tea (buttered toast, hot scones, home-made eclairs and a huge chocolate sponge cake).
Soon after they arrive at Moon Castle the excitement gets kicked up a notch when spooky events begin to occur - books fly off library shelves and musical instruments start to play themselves.
The castle caretakers claim the place is haunted, but this is Blyton, so it can't be - while she made use of many of the props of Gothic fiction, in her books apparently supernatural events always have an explanation.
When I was a child, I Read and Reread The Secret Island and its sequels for years.
"The Secret Series" is one of Enid Blyton's best series.
: likely a bit dated now but what a fun read!I have just reread the books in the series as an adult.
These books were written in the 1940s, so perspectives, behaviors portrayed are obviously different.
The age of the publication does not change the fact they are well written, fun, and enjoyable.
I recently purchased the entire series.I glad there are reprints.
This series "Secret Series" are old fashioned, charming without cell phones, computers and such.
I loved Enid Blyton's mystery stories as a kid, so when I spotted this one, it made me nostalgic and I had to get it.
It has all of the exciting elements I remembered: an old castle, a ruined village, mysterious mines.
I think it is because of books like this that I love history so much: you never quite know what you're going to find.
But, as often happens, the mystery fell a little flat of my expectations upon rereading.
The first half of the book was good, but the second half was a little slow and the ending was downright disappointing.
I sometimes wonder if same Enid Blyton will feel different based on my mood.
I realy loved the first half of this book but felt second half was tedious and just going through the motions - don't know if it is because I have been through so many Enid Blyton books or just that I did not have the right mindset.
I wonder if it is because I have the nostagic feeling from my childhoos associated with these books that is not there as I am reading this series for the first time now.
I don't know.
16jul2013I was going through my book shelves and found a few Enid Blytons still left after 40 years (they're dad's, and we're a family that excels at somehow losing books; a terribly tragic trait, I agree).
This and rubadub mystery are two of my favouritemost books ever.
I know people laugh when I say, at 21, I still love The Famous Five or The Secret Seven but I can't help it.
Them and the umpteen detective story books and kids' magazines (ooh, and the gazillion comics!) that defined my summer vacations!I can't help but give it 5 stars; nostalgia is too overwhelming to ignore.
This book really bring me to my childhood nostalgia where I really love to read detective books.
I love how the story relates on an old castles where no one ever went to that place.
The mysteries brought me with so much questions and anticipation to know the ending that when I wake up from my sleep I would jump straight to this book and read it back just to know how the stories unfolds.
I'm so glad that I finish this book and it gives me an adventure to the kind of world I love.
Well old Enid had an imagination, that's for sure. The boys get exposed to radiation of some kind, instruments play themselves and another secret passage. How many houses in the world must have secret passages for Children to uncover mysteries from them! Of course they solve it, and the baddie guy is taken away. It's not the best ending for a series, but it is a kind of ending I suppose. Which Enid Blyton series should I read next? I haven't read any of the secret seven books for a while. ;)
I didn't expect her to take the series out with such a dark turn! (view spoiler)[The two boys go down an abandoned tin mine and get radiation poisoning in an exotic smelting accident. Then at the close of the book we don't know whether the remaining siblings have parents anymore, as they have been enlisted at the last minute to pilot the first flight of the experimental 1950s rocket ship, christened 'suicide mission'. (hide spoiler)] I can't believe no-one has commented on this.
This is one of the defining books of my childhood imagination. So, so, so, much fun. It provided fodder for dreams and daydreams, and though I forgot about it for over a decade, I am grateful to the internet for reuniting me with the title. I'll hopefully reread it soon, and then try the rest of Enid Blyton's work just out of respect for what she did here.
Buku ini mengingatkan gue pada buku-buku petualangan Lima Sekawan. Bahasanya sederhana, meskipun petualagan mereka lebih simple dibanding yang ada di Lima Sekawan. Gak ketinggalan limun, biscuit sandwich, kue cokelat yang besar dan es krim yang menemani mereka bertualang… hmmmm… Jadi bernostalgia sama Enid Blyton, nih…
The last in this series sees the father of Prince Paul hire a castle for a holiday and invites his friends to visit. While there the children find some unusual going ons and decide to find out what is actually going on. There are abandoned villages, mines and a locked tower with mysterious lights. Another very enjoyable book from my childhood.
A haunted castle...More here:http://inkquilletc.blogspot.in/2014/1...
My original school reading record reviewThis book I liked a lot because of the way the Sar Scary things worked.
Another mystery series by Blyton
Salah satu seri Enyd terseru dan layak koleksi sepanjang jaman. Recommended!
Loved this as a kid and enjoyed the reread, though there is very little 'danger' to the kids unlike the FF, Barney Mysteries or Adventure books...
