https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/846044.The_Whispering_Statue
I read all the Nancy Drew books (and the Hardy Boys) when I was a child, but I will admit that I have read them all again as an adult (a few years ago). The stories are old fashioned, but that's why I like them so much.
They're all over the place and I can scarcely keep everything straight in my dim head.Plot elements in WHISPERING STATUE:--a decaying mansion by the sea containing a precious (to some old dude, anyway) model ship--a FOREIGNER with a pet monkey--Nancy's horrible adopted terrier, Togo--some lady who married a bad dude and ruined her life who convinced a couple that they were both dead, so they lived apart for about 40 years.
Despite these trying circumstances, Nancy saves the model ship.
WHAT!?!?!--the lady who ruined her life by marrying the wrong dude falls into a coma and never wakes up, but her son reforms his ass.
THE WHISPERING STATUE by Carolyn KeeneAnother good book that was actually written by Mildred Wirt, my favorite Nancy Drew writer, but then the outline came from a person who has no sense of adventure.
When I read reviews of this book I realize that the edited edition is way different than what I had read in my first edition book.In this book Nancy is followed by a dog that she just can’t get rid of, and so she names him Togo and brings him home with her.
As he became obstreperous, George used a judo trick which buckled the man's knees and he fell.""When the girls arrived at the yacht club, it was near lunchtime and Bess declared she was starving, 'I could go for a big steak and French fries and a chocolate fudge sundae,' she said.George looked at her cousin sternly, 'Eat all the steak you want but no French fries or sundaes.
How about substituting a big bowl of spinach and a grapefruit?' Her cousin did not reply.
She merely made a face at George.""'I hate to brag,' Nance replied, 'but we really have some fabulous clues.'"
Everyone who knows me knows I love Nancy Drew. But this book was crazy. Nancy Drew giving spiritual advice? Nancy Drew causing a couple of people to have heart attacks? Nancy Drew not having impeccable judgment? This book was bananas. And not in a good way. I like my formula to stay the way it is when I read a book like this. And this one seemed totally off.
Nancy now has 2 friends who go everywhere with her.
And she also has a "special friend" named Ned who plays football and goes to college.
I guess I'll have to fill in the gaps at some point to see how Nancy acquired these folks.This plot has some laughable moments where Nancy goes in "disguise," wearing a wig and sunglasses.
And I'm seeing a pattern where her esteemed attorney father Carson Drew ALWAYS goes out of town when his daughter embarks on sleuthing missions.
Have fun endangering yourself in the company of criminals.
She has some fun times whenever the criminals aren't trying to injure or kidnap her.
Pretty good mystery about a missing (or was it) statue at a yacht club, shady dealings in a book/statue shop with sneaky/scary people and unknown persons trying to scare Nancy away from any discoveries. And at one point Nancy (view spoiler)[ended up entrapped inside a statue cast with only a few air holes (hide spoiler)]. That surely gave some young readers nightmares!This one wasn't as good as the story I just finished but was entertaining enough.
I thought this was a great book. I really like how Nancy disguised herself while solving the whole mystery and how she took chances to work under Basswood's nose. I am very happy that she finally found the whispering statue and solve two mysteries that (of course) is connected. Anyways, the book was great and I hope people also enjoy it, even though it might be over risky!
A very spooky Nancy Drew novel. Based in a seaside town, Nancy tries to find a missing statue.
Typical Nancy Drew, again with the apparently requisite kidnapping. How on earth can people get kidnapped so often??? Why is kidnapping almost always included in these stories?? It is like the publishers required this item in their plot scenario. Oh, yes, and this one also included a statue that may or may not "whisper", which is stolen.
This was a nice book, not the best, but still pretty good. I really like Nancy going undercover in a disguise, and working in the criminal’s store. That was probably the best part. Overall I would recommend to all mystery and adventure lovers!
I enjoyed this Nancy Drew very much, probably because it had to do with art and statuary. The story was pretty well constructed and was easy to follow and enjoy.
Yet another great mystery featuring everyone's favorite teenage sleuth.
First, every Nancy Drew book goes the same way: She is having fun with her friends/dad then she comes across a clue, then she starts the clue, she then becomes enemies with most of the people and is being tailed while driving, next she will get the police involved and have them help her out, somehow her dads mystery connects to her mystery then they solve it together.
Secondly, going back to my first comment, they end the same way EVERY time!
You don't even have to read the book to know that in the end the mystery of the...
There is just something about a Nancy Drew book that is relaxing.While the actual story-line itself is very juvenile, it was a refreshing read.
I still that a lot of the scenarios that Nancy gets into aren't realistic for the time period (late 1930's), I've found that the books are fun to read.
This particular one has Nancy and her friends trying to solve two mysteries at one time - the vanished whispering statue and a collection of rare books.
The book moved very quickly and it made for a pleasurable couple of days worth of reading.
How do the bad guys always know where Nancy is so they can call her/show up to threaten her? Maybe they could just assassinate her, since scaring her never works.Nancy dons a horrible black wig, applies self-tanner and horn-rimmed sunglasses, gives herself an alias, and with the help of Bess and George, manages to take down a band of forgers and thieves. No consciousness lost, but she does get shoved into a statue mold (think sarcophagus) and kidnapped.Also, she destroys yet another boat.
One of the worst I've read in the series so far. Why? Along with an underdeveloped plot and about 10 too many characters, all of these little gems just put the nails on the coffin - "During the drive Nancy removed her wig and Ned heaved a sigh. 'Now you look like your old self, and more my style.'"
I am going to start re-reading (I am proud to say I read all of these when I was in 2nd grade) all of this series. A friend of mine's son had a whole stack of them at his house and I picked it up and found myself loving this series all over again. Great book, not the best writing, but still good for trying to figure out who the bad guy is.
Nancy Drew is like the perfect sleuth. I never really expect a bad ending because I know she always gets the bad guys in the end. But I must admit I kind of wish she hadn't escaped the statue encasement. (Evil grin).
This book and treat me as a child, and I just had to read it again. The story is still interesting, and I still enjoyed it, though I knew what was coming in the plot this time.
Ahhh. Nancy becomes entangled in a mystery involving art... enough said.
A lot of fun. And of course the statue looks just like Nancy!
Original 1920s Nancy usually comes across as even more ballsy than her counterpart from the yellow-spine novels, as she speeds around independently in her own little roadster, toting a smart little handgun for protection and bossing around the local police.
But Ms. Benson still manages to give Nancy the upper hand in some circumstances - even Jack owes his life to Nancy and her girl chums, after they save him from drowning in the undertow.My biggest criticism of this novel isn't the rather uneven execution of Ms. Benson's usual burning feminism though.
I love how mysteries conveniently find Nancy Drew.
Asked to help a client of her father's, Nancy is going to investigate whether woman is being ripped off by the man selling her valuable collection of books on commission.
So now Nancy not only has to work undercover in a shop, she is hunting around for the missing statue.
But of course she finds enough time to enter and win a sailing competition and hang out with Ned. Fast pace and true to the Nancy Drew format, two mysteries turn into one and climax with Nancy trapped inside a statue mold.
Nancy and Co. go hang out at a yacht club and Nancy actually gets an under-the-table gig selling shit in an antiques/rare artifacts store because she suspects the owner's committing fraud.
And there's a statue that's supposed to whisper but doesn't (and even though it's based on an Italian woman it looks JUST LIKE NANCY what're the chances) but the statue is not a super-huge focus.
Okay, I liked this one.
I mean, yes, of course, Nancy nearly gets kidnapped not once, but twice, and she's assaulted at least two other times, not counting additional threats on her life, and all of that fazes and traumatizes her not.
There were several things I enjoyed because I thought they were new to the Nancy Drew series thus far.
Earning money with the weird quirky jobs that Nancy finds in the computer games (she literally dances at a club in a cat suit in Italy!) is probably the best part of the games, and even though this is the art shop of a scoundrel in this story and not making pastries or sandwiches, it was still a fun hint of what was to come.
I just finished reading the original 1937 version which has a completely different plot than the revised edition. It was interesting enough, though I think the book could have been given a different title since the whispering statue didn't play much of a part in the story. That's something I've noticed about the original versions of these Nancy Drew books; the titles don't seem to have much to do with the actual story.
I’d read about 50% - so much sharing of vehicles, Ned driving the bad guy’s car by order of the cop, etc - and I thought it must be a Ray Bradbury-Sci Fi-on-another-planet thing, because there ain’t NO WAY all that would happen today. Otherwise a decent story.
This was like two mysteries for the price of one, and I'm glad my only guess was wrong (I honestly thought that there was someone inside of the statue, and that's who was whispering...too dark for Nancy Drew? Probably.).
Another enjoyable mystery that reminds me of my childhood. Nancy, Bess, and George investigate the case of a missing statue that is said to "whisper". Spooky and fun.
