https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11166.Dawn
Together with his famous memoir Night (1958, of the time he spent in Auschwitz and Buchenwald concentration camps in 1944-5) and his next fictional work, Day (1961) it appears in The Night Trilogy.
Can hate engender anything but hate?The short novel, less than eighty pages, is a first person narrative of Elisha, an eighteen year old Jewish boy, survivor of the death camps, who has been recruited to Palestine to fight in a terrorist organization, whose aim is to force the British out, as a step towards the creation of the Zionist state.The story is powerfully told, very foreboding.
L’UOMO ASSOMIGLIA A DIO SOLO NELLA CRUDELTÀ Sono 80 paginette scarse, e scarne, che però pesano come secoli e millenni, anche se il racconto è racchiuso nel giro di pochi anni (il protagonista ne ha diciotto).Un ebreo, in rappresentanza della sua gente, per sopravvivere deve imparare a odiare, e uccidere: dalla sera all’alba rivede la sua vita, la gente che ha conosciuto, le persone che hanno inciso la sua esistenza, prende la sua decisione e la porta a termine.Pulizia etnica: l’esodo dei palestinesi a seguito della fine del mandato britannico, 15 maggio 1948.Ilana dice a Elisha, il giovane uomo di 18 anni al centro della storia: Presto tutto sarà finito.
Palestine is home to thousands of holocaust survivors from all over Europe,desperate people who have seen death and the lowest points of the human experience.
A young fighter has been asked to execute a british soldier.....he will have to kill him at dawn...Wiesel looks hard at the mindset of the group of young Jewish fighters against british occupation gathered in a house near Tel Aviv, their motivations for the violence they are inflicting on the occupiers.Try to picture these young, idealistic ruthless fighters, then compare them to the Palestinians of today, the idealistic, ruthless Hamas fighters in Gaza….there isnt much difference at all.
Wiesel's point is that we are the sum total of everything that has ever happened to us and everyone who has ever loved us or given us their time.
But all the reasoning behind Elisha's acts couldn't convince me that trying to justify your monstrosity by blaming your enemies for making you a monster exonerates you from being a monster: "John Dawson has made me a murderer, I said to myself.
He has made me the murderer of John Dawson.
No matter how you justify it.While Wiesel's writing is as beautiful as in Night, this book put me off from reading the third part, at least for the foreseeable future.
Perhaps it's my fault for assuming that 'Dawn' was a follow up to Wiesel's brilliant memoir 'Night'.
Or perhaps the book was just boring.
Well written, but boring.In my view, 'Dawn' should not be packaged as the second part of a trilogy, because I did not get any sense of continuation; there was a lot of philosophising but no real sense of transition from the night that was Wiesel's life in a concentration camp to dawn in the Promised Land.
I felt that there were a number of gaps.
It has certainly put me off reading the third part of the 'trilogy'.
3 and 1/2 starsThough this is a novella, it's sometimes marketed as part of a trilogy with the nonfictional Night.
I can see the relevance, as Wiesel himself says in this book's introduction that he imagined what might've happened if he'd been recruited after his Holocaust experiences to become a terrorist in Palestine.
And while I didn't find this as affecting as the memoir Night, it is still relevant, imagining the kind of young person that might become a murderer for a cause and the toll that would take on his psyche.
The mystical elements and some beautiful lines are what stood out for me.
3.5This wasn't exactly like the first book-it only showed one part, and I just learned that it's fictional. I won't say that I agree with the beliefs of Elisha, but his feels and thoughts have been written elaborately. It has a deeper meaning to it-it's about killing our fellow human beings, the excuses we use to justify it, whether they be political or religious, or simply because we hated the other person. The writer has successfully explained the dilemmas of 18 year old Elisha who is to become an executioner upon Dawn.
This is a follow-up to "Night", which I found to be a bit odd. It’s not that I didn’t like “Dawn”, I did and it definitely affected me emotionally, but “Night” is much better. It’s the only book in the trilogy that’s a memoir, so obviously the styles are different. I wonder what “Day” will be like. I plan on reading that soon.
Not that I follow her book club, but I read just about any article I come across that recommends good reading material.I figured "Dawn" might be some sort of sequel to "Night", but it isn't.
"Night" is an autobiography, the story of Wiesel's internment in the Nazi concentration camps of Auschwitz and Buchenwald in 1944 and 1945, but "Dawn" is a novel.
Elisha realizes that the execution will change him, that he will become a murderer forever after he has done this deed, but nevertheless he feels compelled to follow through with it.This book is not to be read for entertainment.
This book is very different from anything else I've read.
It's the follow up to Elie Wiesel's memoir Night, but this time the story is fictional.
Because it's fictional, right off the bat it's easier to digest than Night.
It revolves around a Holocaust survivor's morals and way of thinking after he becomes part of the Jewish Resistance in Palestine and is ordered to execute a British soldier.
Can the victim ever become the murderer?
The main character wrestles with moral questions like these.
It made me think about things that had never occurred to me before.
Dawn is a beautifully written but disturbing novel about an Israeli terrorist waiting to assassinate a British officer in retaliation for the hanging of an Israeli. This novel evokes a great deal of thought about stopping violence with violence and hate with hate. Reflecting on the persecution the Jews have suffered, the young assassin Elisha says: "Now our only chance lies in hating you, in learning the necessity of the art of hate." However, the novel seems ultimately to say that hatred must be fought, or else we are lost.
The plot is about a young Jewish man named Elisha who is chosen to kill an English soldier named John Dawson.
Elisha is part of the resistance movement in Palestine, and the English have captured another resistance member, David ben Moshe.
Gad, one of the movement's leaders, who learned of and tracked down Elisha as a refugee in Paris after the liberation of the concentration camps, chooses Elisha to kill Dawson the same morning that the English have promised to kill David.
David, the Jewish symbol of the resistance against English rule, and John, the symbol of the English national character, become intertwined in unexpected ways.
Incredibly relevant. While a historical novel, in our post-9/11 world that's cluttered with arrogance and self-righteous politics, this should be required reading. Dawn is unnerving; it shakes you to the core. The lines between "us" and "them" are blurred and the reader cannot possibly walk away viewing the world through the same narrow lens they came in with. Read it.
So it basically tells us what happened to Elie Wiesel while WWII, and when I started reading this second book somehow I thought it was going to be the sequel of the first book and it kinda was but I mean… this one is like the author’s subconcious, so it is considered a historical fiction novel, which is totally ok for me really !
DAWN is an interesting companion piece to NIGHT even if it wasn't necessarily intended to be (but given their titles, you have to think there is some correlation). Elie Wiesel again provides a stark and direct style and his incorporation of supernatural elements, imagined or real, while at times confusing, is especially powerful. It is indeed not a frequently-seen literary phenomenon to see Jews "on the other side of the gun," as it were. A coming-of-age story of a slightly different sort that might even teach you a little history!
A disturbing, provocative novella that explores what one would do if charged with the task to kill in the name of terrorism.
Dawn was different from Night. Dawn was fiction and Night was a memoir. Dawn made me think about life's choices and implications from a moral and philosophic perspective. Night was a highly emotional journey. On the surface they are so different it is hard to think of them as related, as one following the other. But as one evolving from the other, Dawn evolves from Night.
I am very sorry, this is not a literary production worth my time.
I took this book full of hope, after reading "Night" (which was a four stars in my books, I think) ....
Unlike Night, though, this new novel an invention, a clever mind building a situation and offering an ending.
So no hisorical value, no literary value, the thing is a one star without hesitation.Let's not forget, this is a Nobel Prize winner for Peace, not literature (!) ....
I honestly don't think many of the people rating this book took the time to ask themselves what is it that this book brings to the plate.
Dawn' was a real drag to read.
It's about a young holocaust-survivor who joins a Jewish underground movement in Palestine and is commanded to execute a British officer who has been taken hostage.
Sounds promising, but it really wasn't.
It was all about the inner struggle to fulfill the command to execute the officer.
Too much philosophizing and mystic rhetoric, in the most pejorative sense possible.
In fact, the boy was whining about it so much that I wished he would put a bullet through his own head.
Because let's not forget, all his whining doesn't change the fact he's a terrorist.
As usual, Wiesel writes of darkness with beauty, humanity encompassed by inhumane actions. As usual it is sad, tragic, beautiful, and quieting.
This is attributed as being a sequel to the autobiographical Night which I think is a bit misleading, as that implies that this is autobiographical too. Instead, Wiesel is musing what he might have been capable of, had he made some different life choices after WWII. So, basically, you have someone who won the Nobel Peace Prize musing about what would have induced him to murder someone. It's a bit of a strange book, but it does indicate just how many huge gaps I have in my knowledge of modern Middle East politics.
A short read. The book deals with questions of right and wrong, of forgiveness and revenge. Quite introspective.
That wars are ugly and will always continue to be ugly until we can find a way to stop the violence.It’s certainly not a happy book, but it is well worth a read, especially when considering it as a thematic sequel to Wiesel’s Night and taking a look at not just the statistics and numbers of executions during the Holocaust, but at the damage it did to many people who survived it, hurts that we continue to struggle to heal today.Also posted on Purple People Readers.
He was then recruited into a terrorist group in Israel.
The (very short) book (in the intro, Wiesel calls it a novel, but it’s under 100 pages) is the day or two leading up to the murder, as Elisha is coming to terms with what he has been tasked to do.
The premise doesn’t sound too bad, but ultimately, it was mostly Elisha discussing philosophy with his fellow terrorists.
It is billed as book 2 after “Night”, but it was fiction whereas Night was a memoir.
I won’t be reading the 3rd book.
Read a book by this author already and enjoyed it so much I'd like to read another. Unfortunately, I didn't realize this one was fiction. I don't know why it is, but I don't enjoy fictional accounts about the Holocaust or its survivors. The true story is horrific enough.Anyway, while this is well written but I just couldn't get into it.
I read Dawn along with Night and Day. Night is autobiographical and Dawn and Day are fiction based on his experiences. Read as a trilogy, Wiesel invites you in as a house invites the breeze to sweep through and breathe in every corner of its four walls.
I wouldn't have enjoyed this as much without reading Night first - even though it's not a sequel.
Not what I expected;RTC
The whole cyclical nature of violence stuff is well good but I just kinda wanted this book to be a bit longer.
Ce livre est un coup de poing dans la gueule. Il réveille votre conscience, vous remue l'âme. L'ambiance est oppressante, mais la narration est pure et profonde sous la plume d'Elie Wiesel, une merveille! Bref lisez-le, prêtez-le, offrez-le. 4/5
