https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/425124.Sacred
I'm really trying to read this series slowly when all I want to do it gobble them all up in one sitting.  Kenzie and Angie are healing from the wounds from the previous two books. These two live a hard life. The book begins when they both are drugged and kidnapped. When they awaken they learn that an old dying rich man has kidnapped them wanting them to take his case. He has more money than he can spend and Kenzie and Angie will take the case because. Money. And because he is grieving for his re
I'm really trying to read this series slowly when all I want to do it gobble them all up in one sitting.
Kenzie and Angie are healing from the wounds from the previous two books.
When they awaken they learn that an old dying rich man has kidnapped them wanting them to take his case.
He has more money than he can spend and Kenzie and Angie will take the case because.
And because he is grieving for his recently murdered wife and now missing daughter.They learn that Kenzie's mentor was the former PI on the case and now he also is missing.
I love every single thing about this series.
Dennis Lehane - image from LA Times The significance of the title is PI Patrick Kenzie’s love for his partner, Angie.
Child abuse figured in this one as well, but not, ultimately, as a significant factor.=============================EXTRA STUFFLinks to the author’s personal, Twitter and FB pagesOther books by Lehane I have read/reviewedKenzie and Gennaro-----A Drink Before the War - #1-----Darkness, Take My Hand - #2-----Gone, Baby Gone - #4-----Prayers for Rain - #5-----Moonlight Mile - #6The Coughlin Series-----The Given Day-----Live by Night-----World Gone ByRead, but not Reviewed-----Mystic River - a masterpiece-----Shutter Island - not
Posted at Shelf InflictedIn the third book of the Kenzie/Gennaro series, Patrick and Angie are hired to find a dying billionaire’s missing daughter.
They learn that the detective he previously hired and who trained Patrick, has also disappeared under mysterious circumstances.
There are lots of twists and turns in this case, a grieving daughter, people who are not what they appear to be, a cult that exploits the grief and vulnerabilities of its recruits, a family who behaves badly, and a lot of missing money.
While this story lacked the intensity and pace of the first two books, it was still very satisfying.
Inferior to the first two Kenzie-Genaro mysteries, for two reasons: 1) Kenzie is falling in love with Genaro, and he tells us how hot she is so many times that it gets in the way of the story, and 2) half of the book is set in Florida not Boston. I don't mind the fact that our two heroes are out of their element, but Lehane is out of his element too--and it shows.
Edit 09/19 : As I can't help but reread some parts a billion times (GEE! (view spoiler)[you'll know what I mean (hide spoiler)]), I can safely change this rating into a 5. Loyalty and love will always win me, I guess. "Everyone is suspect. Everyone is suspect.It was starting to become my mantra." I'll tell you this : Read this series, because it's basically awesomeness in a bottle. You've got Patrick, sarcastic and clever detective who stole my heart (I mean - just marry me already), Angie, his
I'll tell you this : Read this series, because it's basically awesomeness in a bottle.
You've got Patrick, sarcastic and clever detective who stole my heart (I mean - just marry me already), Angie, his partner who shows more and more strength, Bubba, their psychotic friend who's always there when action starts (and blows off things), Cheswick, the coolest lawyer ever (yes, I quote)...
Sorry, Patrick, I know you deserve better.
I still love you.For more of my reviews, please visit:
When Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro are strong-armed and then enticed by a billionaire to find his missing daughter, dead or alive, they have no idea of the web of lies they are about to be entangled in, a web that has already made Patrick's mentor vanish without a trace...One of the reasons I've gravitated toward detective fiction in my old age is that I'm far more likely to be taken by surprise.
Complicating things are the fact that Patrick's mentor was the last guy to look for Desiree Stone and has seemingly dropped off the face of the earth.Like a lot of good authors, Lehane had me by the nose a few times.
Maybe honor was in its twilight. Maybe it had always been heading that way. Or worse, maybe it had always been an illusion.Everyone is suspect. Everyone is suspect. It was starting to become my mantra. It goes without saying that I'm a picky little shit. I have rules upon rules, and I turn down rec after rec from friends because I am just that critical. It's not because I don't trust my friends...it's more than that. Imagine knowing precisely what you want. And when you find it, your eyes light
So, when my friend said I'd love this, I tried it...but didn't particularly fall for the first book.
A stalker/serial-killer story, deep, meaningful relationships between Patrick, Angie, and their friends growing, and the atmosphere becoming darker, eerier, creepier...I was like a moth to a flame.
But, and don't judge me, I am seriously addicted to the serial killer books and was a little put out that wasn't in this story.
This case allowed for Angie and Patrick to explore their relationship and dig deeper and focus on, yes I know I've said it, what's important.
Great complex plot, interesting lying characters, a marvellous femme-fatale, twists and turns that Chandler would love, and plenty of action scenes, although fantasy Hollywood Physics abound and people fly across rooms when hit by bullets * Godzilla Facepalm * The pacing throughout is great and only falls down a bit in the middle ...
Love this:Angela is given far more complex and proactive roles, leading many scenes, especially those of planning and detection.
That’s you all over.” “Hey, fuck you.” “No, Manny.
(view spoiler)[ Finally after so many years, Angela and Patrick make true uplifting and binding love to each other.
For most people getting hired by a billionaire and paid a huge sum of money to do a job that includes going to sunny Florida via private jet would be a career highlight.
Jay is a friend of theirs, and he's also the guy who trained Patrick on detective work.
The trail leads to a shady grief counseling group linked to a religious cult, and then to Florida, but things are never what they seem while looking for Desiree and Jay. Lehane had really figured it all out by this third book.
A Bone to Pick With Mr. LehaneWell Dennis, I hope you're happy with yourself because you've pretty much shot my street cred with your depiction of Marblehead in this one—all those years of referring to it as M'hood, my clever use of the zip code in dubbing the town police force the "0194-five-oh," all shattered as soon as Patrick Kenzie wakes up in the mansion of a mysterious billionaire (the dimensions of which I'm pretty sure wouldn't actually fit anywhere on the Marblehead Neck, so there!) On the other hand, you did make it sound like I risk my life on the daily driving along what you refer to as a "chop shop auto mile," so thank god for small miracles or whatever.Oh, you wanted to know about the book?As mentioned, Patrick and Angie are on the tail of a missing billionaire's daughter- their first foray back into the field since the crazed events of Darkness Take My Hand.
Recommended by Corey.Another good book by Dennis Lehane.Boston's Patrick Kenzie & Angie Gennaro private investigators are hired in a unusual way by rich but sick Billionaire Trevor Stone with not much time to live.
Can Desiree be found & can the sick Trevor survive (stay alive) getting his answer on what happen to his daughter before dying.How much is money will be requested from the entire family worth?(view spoiler)[The crime is not only after two million but all of Trevor's billions.
How badly are Patrick, Angie & Billionaire Trevor injured?
Has Desiree been found alive, kidnapped or killed at the end?
Damn good book in a damn good series.This one is pretty twisty. Kenzie and Ange are still recovering from the events of the last book (Darkness, Take My Hand), when a wealthy man hires them to find his daughter.Sacred started by going off in one direction, took a brief turn toward Carl Hiassen and then settled into the feeling that our heroes had wandered into the middle of Chandler's The Big Sleep.I'm just sorry I finished it so quickly.
Of course, nothing is as it seems and this missing case turned out to be a much bigger case than they had bargained for and as usual, they just can't seem to catch a break and this case just like the last one will take a toll on them.This book was not as intense as the last one, still good, but just not exceptionally good.
But the final confrontation and Patrick and Angie's way of delivering justice were great.
There are twists and turns in the story and that is as always great, I love reading books where nothing is as it seems.
Like Marlowe, Patrick and Angie more or less fall into things as time progresses, playing their cards close to the chest and not having to do a whole lot of detective work outside of putting boots on the ground and knocking on doors.During the first two novels, Kenzie and Gennaro certainly took their lumps and Sacred is no different.
Hard to anticipate your golden years when you’re constantly avoiding bullets and breaking bones on a regular basis.It’s going to be tough to top Darkness, Take My Hand and although I found Sacred to be not as strong as its predecessor, I still tore through it relatively quickly.
Dying billionaire Trevor Stone (who is clearly not telling all), hires in an outlandish way the Boston pairing of private detectives Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro, partners (sometimes sleeping partners), to find his missing daughter Desiree, a depressed young women who may or may not be in the Florida area mixed up in god knows what.
With a complex story (although nothing on chandler), this noir crime thriller really takes hold of you.
Only let down, I could see the end coming, other than that, a terrific piece of crime writing that had the feel of a film.
Kenzie and Gennaro search through not only Boston, but take to the sunny state of Florida, where she and the detective were last heard from.
But as Kenzie and Gennaro move deeper into the investigation, it appears things aren't as they seem, and not knowing who they can trust, they are drawn into something far more deadly and personal than a missing person's case.A great addition to the series, Kenzie and Gennaro become more romantically involved with each other in this one, and though 2 half's of the story take place in Boston like all of Lehane's books, 1 half takes place in Florida which I thought was pretty cool!
3.5*
A great series to star from the beginning - and then just keep on going ! The 3rd in the series and I enjoyed it very much!
I read a lot in the mystery genre, and I have learned to appreciate most of the formulas that go into building a decent thriller.
Dennis Lehane doesn't write run-of-the-mill thrillers.
Lehane writes suspenseful novels in which the formula for a good mystery is so well-hidden, it's almost like he's not using a formula.
"Sacred" is one of the books in his series featuring the private eye team of Patrick Kenzie and Angie Gennaro.
In this one, Kenzie and Gennaro are hired by a mysterious rich man who wants them to find his missing daughter and the other private investigator he hired to find her.
Angie and Patrick have more or less given up detective work after a shootout that left them physically and mentally scarred when they are kidnapped by Trevor Stone, an immensely wealthy man, dying of cancer, who wants them to find his daughter Desiree who has disappeared along with Patrick’s mentor, Jay Becker, another Boston detective.As with most good stories, the ostensible is rarely part of the outcome.
Take nothing for granted.I liked the sarcasm and occasional wit.
I’m always far more impressed with authors whose characters work out a solution that doesn’t involve knocking someone on the head.
This third in the series has some typical over-the-top violence, but I liked the nifty cerebral elements, particularly the way they solved the dilemma in the end.
This book just sucked me right in.
The pacing is almost flawless, as far as this kind of thing is concerned.
It's the third in a series, and there are some intriguing references to the events of previous novels, which, unfortunately, I haven't (yet) read.
So, more books to add to my "to-read" pile.There is quite a bit of wit and wordplay, which Lehane seems to handle remarkably well.
I don't recall Shutter Island being quite the same, but anyway.
If you recognise names like Harry Bosch, Alex Delaware, Lucas Davenport or Elvis Cole this is something you should add to your collection.
Pue la MerdeThis is the worst Kenzie & Gennaro novel, nothing like the intriguing, provocative and suspenseful #4, Gone, Baby, Gone. Nor does it have the grittiness, suspense or sexual tension in #2, Darkness, Take My Hand. Instead, Sacred feeds you successive lines of disconnected bulls**t, and asks you to buy the whole ranch in one of the most ridiculous plots in modern day detective/suspense novels.In sum, a quickly forgettable, unrealistic (non-)suspense novel.
The part in bold applies to the entire Patrick Kensie / Angie Gennero series. After watching the moving 'Gone Baby Gone' I wanted to read this series of books. I wasn't disappointed. The stories may not be classics, but they grab you and you want to read to the end. Most importantly for me, I like the main characters. Even when they do things that make me mad, it feels like when I'm mad at a friend and I know I'll get over it. I can relate to them and I feel like they're my friends even when I
I can relate to them and I feel like they're my friends even when I want to slap them and tell them to get their shit together.The stories are good, but not always pretty and these books are not for kids.
I like this kind of story whethere it's in a book or a movie, or even a TV show, and I'm usually pretty good at figuring it out before the reveal.
Part of the fun for me is trying to figure out the whole thing before the characters in the story do.
It's a pretty intriguing story and so for the once over read, if you have read the first two, then I would recommend it, simply because I think the whole series is worth the investment.
That's the great thing about Lehane, I feel he is pretty founded in his realism.So stack this read up against the first two books in the series and, to me, it doesn't stack up as strong.
While some things left me feeling ‘bleargh’, there was more to like than dislike.
Will most likely recommend it to your cat it's that good.9/10 – How is this writing even possible?
The relationship between the former FBI agent turned detective who trained Patrick Kenzie and the hero is clarified.
Everyone is "drawn" with a threshold (or should I say "moral precipice?") that is dangerously close to where they are standing.Yet, this is what draws me to this genre: the picture of a bleak existential situation where desperate characters hang onto a shred of courage or personal integrity long enough to find resolution (either in a death of unsatisfactory or satisfactory resolution (ie.
Although the enemy and its origins are delineated as Lehane uses him/her/it to direct us through the narrow lane of the plot like a flagman at a construction site, he never resolves the situation.
SACRED - ExLehane, Dennis - 3rd Patrick Kenzie/Angela GennaroWhen Angie Gennaro and Patrick Kenzie are called in to find a billionaire's missing daughter, they find themselves drawn deeper and deeper into a world of corruption and violence, searching for a man and a woman who could be saint or sinners, victims or victimisers, alive or dead.1997 Top Read - This was so good. The dilemma between what is legally versus morally right. This wasn't as dark as his previous two books. I loved it!
In ‘Sacred’, Kenzie and Gennaro are hired by a not wholly trustworthy billionaire, who is dying of cancer, to find his missing daughter, Desiree.
It’s the third book of the Kenzie and Gennaro series and one in which the trail leads them out of their beloved Boston to Miami, for most of the course of the novel, before returning home for the closing chapters.
‘Sacred’ is the least satisfying of series of the four K and G novels I have read so far.
Despite all the above comments, it is Kenzie and Gennaro, so read it.
Lehane's Kenzie and Gennaro series is best described as being in the Noir series of detectives (I am reminded of Andrew Vacchs as another excellent member of this genre).
At least, not after you've read Lehane.As my other reviews attest, I'm interested in the lone hero in novels (series only, please), an interest awakened by the Jack Reacher novels of Lee Child and Coben's Myron Bolitar series as well as other excellent novelists (see my other reviews).
Lehane takes this a step further and presents us with a three way split from Jack Reacher: Gennaro (the good), Kenzie (the good mixed with propensity for violence), and Bubba (our favorite sociopath).When it comes to Noir, you can't get any better than Dennis Lehane.
3rd in the Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro series.[return][return]By unorthodox means, Gennaro and Kenzie are hired by an incredibly wealthy and powerful but dying businessman to find his daughter who, stricken with grief by several deaths within a short period of time, has disappeared.
Disappeared as well is the private detective Kenzie s mentor who was originally hired to find her.[return][return]So begins the 3rd installment in the series.
The writing is superb taut but with plenty of humorous banter between Gennaro and Kenzie to bring them and keep them real.
I'm not sure whether I'd be as disturbed reading any of the remaining books in this series as I was for Darkness, Take My Hand.
I think the only bits I enjoyed was finding out about Patrick's past and him working with Jay, realizing that he did have this drive, this passion for this going way back when he started in the business.
Patrick and Angie feeling like they didn't belong out of their territory was exactly how I felt reading this.
I actually missed Boston!I do enjoy this series a lot and since the next book is Gone, Baby, Gone, surely that's got to be better.
