https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12205292-the-fly
He doesn't want to remember: six years ago, the death of his only son, his grave somewhere in the battlefields of Belgium, during the Great War.But then, inadvertently, a friend reminds him, tells him both their dead sons graves are near each other, in Belgium, flowers growing on the ground over them.The memory of his greatest loss comes back to him.
But it doesn't come.
He watches it succeed in clambering out of the dark ink and prepares itself to live its second life.What he did to the fly, what he felt, and what he could no longer remember.
I don't know what my emotions are doing after reading "The Fly." It's such a short story, and a simple one, that of a father grieving the loss of his child in World War I — but the ending, where the titular fly comes in, is what threw me off balance.
The grieving father has forgotten his sorrow until he is reminded of it, and needs a few moments in his office by himself, only some ink and a fly to distract him.
It's a simple story, but there is so much depth behind it that it makes "The Fly" a quick and touching read.
The Fly, by Katherine Mansfield, is a short story written about an aged man who struggles with finding meaning with his life after the loss of his only son.
Granted, creating an interpretation for every story does not work, however in this case it does.The Fly is an allegory describing the relationship between God and man.
In the story we see three main characters: Mr. Woodifield, the boss, and the fly.
The boss, impressed by the fly’s perseverance, dropped another blot of ink on top of the fly.
The god figure is represented by the boss and the mere human, the fly.
I Love Katherine Mansfield , but this short story is just too boringly and insipidly written, as if with no traces of inspiration ...
Something that Mansfield could have done only to meet some last minute deadline or as a chore possibly , and so does not , in me, evoke any compassion or sympathy for the character of the boss .
Well , the guy is going through an excruciating pain inside , but it makes no sense to perform sadistic experiments on an innocent bystander fly to comprehend your own soul .
....what the actual fuck?Read for my Fictional Writing course
"He wasn't feeling as he wanted to feel."A poignant tale focusing on the several mixed emotions that come with the loss of a loved one in war.
The writing style wasn't too appealing, and if anything the biggest redeeming factor was the unexpected connection I made to the main character's interaction with the fly near the end.
To be sure, an ant was crawling about on the bathroom floor, and I ended up "blotting" it with tap water, much like he does to the fly with ink.
Just like him, I felt mixed emotions, of admiration (and disgust), and conflicting inclinations towards mercy and cruelty.
The Fly is a tale of loss, of loss of feeling, and of cruelty and hope. It's a beautifully written story which deals with growing old, the end of a dynasty, the aftermath of the Great War and the way mettle can be tested by challenges - admirably at times, destructively at others.
A man slowing drowning a fly in ink. Yay. I was forced to read this by a teacher who didn't believe anything with a happy ending could be considered good literature.
Perhaps it's in the fact that my son turns two in a few short weeks and I felt myself uncomfortably close to the subject.
We know so very little about the son except through the boss's reminiscence and we learn little about the young man except through the plans his father had for him and the praise he received because of him.
Then again, perhaps the root of my discomfort can be found in the way this father of a soldier distracts himself from his melancholy thoughts at the expense of a fly.I may never really know why I feel so discomforted by Mansfield's story, but I imagine this is the sort of piece I will want to return to in a decade or two with a few more greys in my hair.
Interesting read.
I interpret the ending to mean that the boss is as careless with life (exemplified by his torture and killing of the fly) as politicians/generals are with sending young men off to war to be brutally killed.
Although the boss seems to believe that he misses his selfless son because of the person his son was, it seems that the truth is more selfish: his son was to take the boss's place at his company and continue his legacy.
Before torturing the fly, the boss was thinking of his son.
After the fly dies, the boss cannot remember what he was thinking of.
Maybe that I was able to interpret it properly ?
Maybe it was that I enjoyed the story as I would a normal one ?
I don't know what it was that brought the boss to drop ink on the fly, but it sounds like something I would've done.
People make out the boss to be a worse person.
Everyone has their own way of grieving, and although the boss' grief is not healthy and very burdening, I think it's the way he really wants to.
No, the boss is by my favourite character.
I usually enjoy Mansfield's works, from those I have read, but this one I found only satisfactory.
It seemed to be a departure from her talents and style, which is disappointing to a fan of her work, although it is a good read for the elementary reader- an easy read, yet intriguing to young audiences.
It reads slow and didn't fulfill my expectations for the "great psychoanalytical short story" that I was looking for.
Another problem is Mansfield doesn't use details to her advantage as she does in texts such as Miss Brill and the Garden Party.
And a fly drowning an ink?
This is well written. But I felt all the characters were uni-dimensional: Woodifield, the boss, his dead son. It spoke of the emotions you feel in life. The strong feelings, the troubles one faces. But in a way that I got me hoping for more. And it never came. A good short story. Almost good enough.
I liked this, as much as I like most short stories in any case. I want to like them, and I'm really giving a wide range of them a go this year, but they just don't do a great deal for me in general. This one was a little more engaging & interesting than most others that I've read though.
I nice brief read that captures your interest, builds emotive weight quickly and effectively, and leaves you with something to think about when you're finished. Nothing mind-blowing, but well constructed.
"He wasn't feeling as he wanted to feel. "don't ask why ?feeling is feeling it can't come easily it demands a really HONEST source ..
Tampoco lo recuerdo. Así de memorable me resultó su lectura.
That kind of weird that I like .
Story from high school. Decent.
