https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22572.T_S_Eliot_Reads
Välitilan runoutta. Tajuntaa hikoiluttava lukukokemus.
~~~On First Reading~~~[return][return]There's not much to be said about these poems on first reading.
For the most part they're too cryptic to be properly understood right off the bat, with one exception being "Journey of the Magi".[return][return]"Journey of the Magi" is a monologue, assumedly from one of the famous Magi from the East who came looking for Jesus in the wake of a star.
Basically (and I say this with a reserve of irony, since Eliot's poetry can hardly be described as basic) it concerns the effects, on one, of a religious experience.[return][return]The rest of the poems will have to wait on a second reading.
His poems are fantastic on paper, even better read aloud, and absolutely perfect when read by Eliot himself. Whether you want to or not, after listening to Eliot read his work, you will hear his voice in your head every time you read his poems in the future. This recording of "Prufrock" is particularly well-done.
In the poem, a bunch of Hollow Men are like scarecrows leaning towards each other.
The people who have gone to heaven of hell remember these guys as "hollow men." One hollow man is afraid to look at people who made it to "death's dream kingdom" – either Heaven or Hell.
The Hollow Men live in a world of broken symbols and images.
Instead, they say prayers to broken stones.
The world for the Hollow Men ends with a sad and quiet "whimper." This poem is very analytical and it takes a lot of thinking for someone to understand it.
I really enjoyed these TS Eliot poems read by Sir Alec Guinness.
I have been listening to the tapes over and over.
It is not enough, nor even fair, to listen only once.
Each time the lines are read, I hear something different.
I tune into the cadence or the seperate words jump out and really highlight one line or a group of lines from another.
Poems on CD or Audio tape cannot be listened to only once, no more than they can only be read in their printed form only once.
I liked the Four Quartetes the best.Sir Alec is a 5 star listen, no matter what he is reading.
"(tule tänne punaisen kallion varjoon)niin näytän sinulle jotakin toisenkaltaistakuin varjon, joka harppoo takanasi aamulla,ja varjon, joka kasvaa kohdatakseen sinut illalla;minä näytän sinulle ahdistuksen kourallisesta tomua."
Love it, though Eliot's voice is almost terrifying. But it certainly adds to the intensity of his poetry, and man, I love his poetry! Sometimes, he is too monotone for me, and drab-sounding in these recordings. Interesting stuff, if you are an Eliot fan.
It's always a pleasure to read such a talented poet, but, for some reason, I like the Wasteland better than several pieces of the Four Quartets. The Quartets are crafted, but seem tame and forced in places.
A book of poetry ~ check
When I was a freshman in college I used to listen to this cassette all the time. What a total weirdo I was/am.
Listening to Eliot read his epic and thought provoking poems brings entirely new levels of meaning to phrases that aren't necessarily in the text alone.
Excellent as always -- have read it many times before.
Hmmm.. another I'm totally ignorant of, and would rather that weren't so.
Perfect listening for making candles in a cabin in the woods. This may be the only audio that I add to my list, but you've gotta hear Eliot in his own voice. Must read-3Accessible-3
spoken word is powerful, and Eliot knows how to read words in a way to make you think. Because you can't have the author with you always, you need to hear him read these poems at least once.
The Wasteland is not an easy read, but it's powerful stuff if you give it a chance.
Gran, gran poesía. Brillante, magistral, amarga... Reflexión árida y lúcida sobre la condición humana, sobre una sociedad entrópica, sobre la religión y la cultura... Magistral.
I only read a couple of these poems, The Hollow Men and The Hippopotamus. But I give these poems 5 stars - The Hollow Men refers to the Character Kurtz from Conrads Heart of Darkness.
Brilliant.
my favorite writer of all time..."the hollow men" i find to be his best work.
Re-read "The Four Quartets." These poems are windows to my soul.
