https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122404.Asterix_and_the_Big_Fight
I feel this a weak Asterix comic book.
I watched the cover, and I had bad feeling about it.
1. Seeing Asterix running with worried face is unsettling.
In my imagination, Asterix is a confident, smart , sometimes angry person.
But the afraid face person on the cover is a big no for me.2.
Seeing Obelix so uncare is another minus.
Okay, I was too serious, this is a comic book universe.
But still, I don't like the uncaring face.3.
Seeing mad Getafix with colourful face...
So, the Romans did have psychologists28 September 2012 Well, after reading a very heavy book on the Vietnam War I decided that I needed something lighter, a lot lighter, to read so that my brain simply did not fry, so I grabbed the Asterix Omnibus from under my bed (I am progressively collecting them and reading these albums again because that are one of those books that I simply loved as a child and as a adult I still gain immense amounts of pleasure from reading them) and read this one (there
As is normal for a day on the edge of the Roman Empire, the Romans are trying to concoct a way to defeat this village of Gauls who use a magic potion to keep the entire army a bay.
So, Vitalstatistix, who cannot turn down the fight, must work out a way of defeating his opponent without the use of the potion (and in fact, he actually does manage to do that, but I won't tell you how because that will simply spoil the story).
Questa storia ha delle gag micidiali, che rendono quest'albo uno dei più divertenti fra quelli letti sinora.
Asterix and the Big Fight (Astérix #7), René Goscinny, Albert Uderzo
Kalo Asterix bacanya entah beberapa kali. Sampe bukunya lecek dan akhirnya di bundel supaya gak ilang2an. Komik terkeren sepanjang masa setelah Tintin.
Πολύ γέλιο....Ο ΑΣΤΕΡΙΞ μας κάνει μέχρι σήμερα να γελάμε!
Ich liebe die Namen. Gibtermine ist definitiv einer der Besten 😂😂
Nicht alle Gallier setzen sich der Romanisierung entgegen, manch einem Gallier gefällt die römische Lebensweise sogar ausserordentlich gut, wie beispielsweise dem gallorömischen Häuptling Augenblix.Auf der anderen Seite stehen diejenigen Gallier, die sich gegen die Römer stets zur Wehr setzen.
Wie können sich die tapferen Gallier nur aus dieser Situation retten?Obwohl die Geschichte witzig ist, fehlt im Vergleich zu anderen Bänden die Tiefe.
So ist zum Beispiel die Geschichte mit dem Seher offensichtlich aus dem letzteren Band, wohingegen der Zwischenfall, bei welchem Miraculix mit einem Hinkelstein getroffen wird, aus diesem Band stammt.
Ein Schlag auf den Kopf erhöht das Denkvermögen......oder auch nicht.
Durch einen perfiden Plan der Römer soll das nun geschwächte Dorf endgültig unter die Knute der römischen Verwaltung gezwungen werden, und ein Gallo-Römer soll dabei helfen.Goscinny und Uderzo schaffen es immer wieder, neue, verrückte und einmalige Charaktere in dieser Reihe zu erschaffen.
Neben diesen Charaktern sind die überall vorhandenen Anspielungen auf die moderne Zeit natürlich immer äußerst unterhaltsam: besonders gefällt mir diesmal der gallo-römische Autoscooter.Auch wenn dieser Band leicht überdreht, passt er sich doch wunderbar in eine wunderbare Reihe ein.
Die verhaal waarin Asterix se dorpie byna-byna sy onafhanklikheid verloor, word in hierdie vertaling deur Sonya van Schalkwyk-Barrois net so kleurryk as die illustrasies.
Haar keuse van karaktername is kostelik: ontmoet die hoofman-oor-honderd Sabbatsrus met die enorme stem; die legioensoldaat Gladnilus; die druïde Onthounix; en die Gallo-Romeinse hoofman Disvimygrix!
Soos in die vorige vertalings buit sy die Afrikaanse taalidioom deeglik uit sodat 'n mens al giggelend voortlees.
The translator creates excellent names for the characters and laugh-out-loud puns.
Well worth the read - and the comparison with other translations.
Hilarious and witty, with clasic band dessinnée art, this is one of Astérix and Obélix's adventures which I had missed so far. Of course, having the invincible Gauls being unable to resort to their magic potion was a classic gag from the series, but the way in which it's achieved in this issue is quite clever and allows for the Druid's less serious side to shine forth. Lots of menhirs, Roman-bashing, and sheer joy.
It's highly unlikely that I'm going to rate any of Asterix less than 4 stars. It's not being biased, just honest. As I say, when I was little I enjoyed the cartoon pics and funny fights and all, now as an adult I enjoy the historical illusions, puns and the antics. For example, the name of the druid who specialize in mental cures: Psychoanalytix. :P
Le décurion Perclus demande au chef Gaulois Aplusbégalix de défier Abraracourcix en combat des chefs. Mais pour qu'il ait une chance de gagner, reste à éliminer Panoramix.
Asterix sieltä parhaasta päästä.
ছনদপতন। অযাসটেরিকস সিরিজের সরবকালের সরবসেরা বই Asterix and Cleopatra (সিরিজের ৬ নামবার বই) এর ঠিক পরের বইয়েই গলপের মান, আরটওয়ারকের মান অসবাভাবিক রকম খারাপ হয়ে যায়। গলপের পলটের কনসেপট সুনদর, কিনতু গলপ সাজানোর ধরণ অগোছালো। সংলাপগুলোও বুদধিদীপত হতে পারে নাই। গলপের শুরুতে আরটওয়ারকের মান ভয়াবহ খারাপ। শুরুর ৩০ পাতা জুড়ে চরিতরগুলোর মুখ বেখাপপা রকম বড় করে আঁকা, লযানডসকেপের কারুকারয পরায় একদমই নাই, চড়া কটকটা রঙ বেশি বযবহৃত হয়েছে। ৩০ পাতার পর হঠাৎ আঁকার ধরণ পরিবরতিত হয়েছে, অযাসটেরিকস আর কলিওপেটরা বইয়ের মত
ছন্দপতন। অ্যাস্টেরিক্স সিরিজের সর্বকালের সর্বসেরা বই Asterix and Cleopatra (সিরিজের ৬ নাম্বার বই) এর
Ovelix as enthusiastic as he is, he threw a menhir at the Roman Guard but it hit Getafix on the head. After the accident Getafix has lost his memory and he is unable to prepare the magic potion and the village just ran out...
Appreciated this one mostly for the owl in love with the tree. The battle of the technicolor druids gets an honorable mention.
The Romans want to take advantage of an ancient Gaulish custom--if a chief can beat another chief in unarmed combat, the winning chief becomes the ruler of the loser's village.
They find the ambitious and tough Cassius Ceramix of Linoleum to fight another chief.
Ceramix is afraid but the Romans decide to capture or kill Getafix, the druid whose potions make Vitalstatistix have superhuman strength.
They comically fail but Obelix nails him with a menhir and Getafix loses his memory.
Too bad the village just ran out of potion.
Can they get his memory back before the big fight?
This is one of my favourite Asterix books, mainly for the very broad, slapstick humour not only of Obelix's menhir repeatedly bashing folk but also for the multi-colour effects of Getafix's and Psychoanalytix's potions when they are addled because of being bashed by said menhir.
The two of them laughing at the absurdity of th eother characters adds a nice almost meta level of humour, as well.
Uderzo is in especially fine form with the art, notably in his depiction of the owl besotted with the Roman who disguises himself as a tree.
I have lost count of how many times I have read this, but it breaks me up every time.
Because of a discussion over on the To Be Read Mountain, I've been re-reading the Asterix books that I have. They hold up pretty well.I'm not sure why I gave this two stars, so I am changing it. Watch out for flying Menhirs!Asterix is great because (1) funny (2) adult level and a child's level (3) you can see him when you watch the French national team (4) Dogmatix.The books are laugh out loud funny.
Asterix the Big Fight – the Romans have a Gaulish chieftain-collaborator challenge Chief Vitalstatistix to a winner-takes-all bare-knuckle brawl… and Getafix is out of magic potion! Terrific send up of proxy warfare (to say nothing of professional wrestling)
The Gaulish village is threatened when a rival Romanised chieftain challenges Vitalstatistix to a boxing match, the loser of which will surrender his domain. Seeing as Obelix has clobbered Getafix with a menhir causing him to lose all memory of how to concoct magic potion could the heroes we know and love be in hot soup? (Sorry)
This was a good one. There's real tension in the story as things escalate and the resolution is very satisfying. Be sure to check out these annotations to pick up on all the puns and references http://asterix.openscroll.org/books/a... For example Cassius Ceramix - Ceramics can be made from Clay - ie Cassius Clay, ie Mohammad Ali
One of what I consider to be proto-Asterix albums, as they hadn't found their top form yet by then. I believe this episode appealed to me the most as a kid, with all the potions and explosions. Pretty decent album.
This was the first Asterix that I read as a kid so it was pretty fun revisiting it. The puns are so much funnier as an adult, historical context and all.
Una storia molto divertente, in cui i nostri eroi si ritrovano in una situazione per loro completamente nuova: dovranno cavarsela senza Panoramix e la sua magica pozione.
The Romans try to finally vanquish Asterix's village by reinstating the battle of the village chiefs.
They persuade Aplusbegalix (French name) who calls himself a Gallo-Roman to challenge Abraracourix (Majestix).
The problem is that Obelix has accidentally "dropped" a menhir on the druid who has now lost his memory and can't make the magic potion.
Can the village win the challenge without the potion or is all lost to the Romans?
I didn't find this story as amusing as most Asterix tales.
The best part might be the little owl who latches onto the Roman disguised as a tree.
Tämä sarjakuvakirja voitaneen jo luokitella klassikoksi? Asterix tuntui tällä kertaa luettuna hyvinkin hauskalta - johtunee osittain Tintin ja Lucky Luken uudelleenlukemisesta. Mätkittiinhän tässäkin sarjakuvassa menemään vaikka ketä, mutta tällä kertaa se väkivalta jäi jotenkin vähemmälle huomiolle muiden hivenen hauskojen tapahtumien alle. Henkilöhahmojen keskinäinen naljailu oli mielestäni parempaa, kuin aiemmissa osissa.
Wer könnte nicht Asterix und Obelix lieben? Dieses Comicheft lautet witzig und amüsant - die Gallien empfand, wie es gewesen könnte, ohne ihren Zaubertrank zu leben. Ich mag die lustige Namen, und zwar 'Troubadourix' und 'Miraculix' und besonders 'Augenblix'!Es war mein erstes Asterix-und-Obelix-Buch sind ich habe es sehr viel genossen.
This comic book series was very popular in Germany, and I read them several times each as a teenager, eagerly waiting for the next release. Now I wished I could find them in the US, I didn't even know that a translation exists. This particular story was one of my favorites.
