https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16278318-armada
There were references being made where they didn’t add to the plot, where they didn’t fit into normal conversation or thought, and where they expected to explain something important that I therefore didn’t understand because I don’t know all of these obscure references!)+ wasted potential (the big reveal at the end was actually interesting but I really felt it was a case of “too little too late”)+ bad editing (I hate to be a stickler for grammar, but sometimes it crosses a line - throughout reading this i kept shaking my head and just thinking “did the editor give up?
That’s far from the biggest problem with Armada.The important thing here is that Ernest Cline is a goddamn hack.I thought his first book Ready Player One was lightweight mildly entertaining sci-fi that mainly coasted by due to its appeal as Gen-X nostalgia porn, but Cline is like that guy at work who made one decent joke that got a short giggle out of you once in the break room and after that repeats a variation of it every time you bump into him in the hall.
Perhaps I am not really as much of a nerd as I think I am, or perhaps there is a specific breed of nerd that will enjoy Cline's books.
Maybe the kind who plays a lot of alien video games and arcade games, which is basically what this book is about.It is quite funny in the beginning, but it lost me somewhere after we got lists of video game facts and a video game timeline.
According to the story, the game drove several kids who played it insane; then the machine mysteriously vanished, never to be seen again.”I've heard that Ready Player One is better but I find myself not wanting to read it quite so much anymore.
Teenager Zack Lightman is the 6th best Armada player in the world, a sci-fi shoot ‘em up where you pilot a ship blasting away alien invaders.
In fact the derivative nature of Ernest Cline’s Armada is emblematic of the novel as a whole which isn’t so much a story as it is a collection of quotes and references from other, actually original works of pop culture sprinkled liberally atop an adolescent wish-fulfilment fantasy.The story is told in Zack’s first person.
The real failing of Armada is that for all Cline’s knowledge of pop culture, he’s unable to contribute anything original to it with his book.
I like to think I'm sorta with it as an adult.  I read books that my teenagers like. I run from adult responsibilities. I love some pop culture stuff. I make fart jokes with my tweenish age son.I'm totally on board with the cool stuff. Until I met this book.I absolutely and totally hate it. I know I should make myself finish it since I received a copy as an arc. I'm not doing it. You can't make me. I loved Ready Player One so much that it is one of my favorites that I've read this year. This suc
This is from the blurb-that I stupidly waited to read after I started the book.Armada is a rollicking, surprising thriller, a classic coming of age adventure, and an alien invasion tale like nothing you've ever read before-one whose every page in infused with the pop-culture savvy that has helped make Ready Player One a phenomenon.*gags*
I did not finish this book but so far into it I saw the whole bullying storyline, single mom/dead dad, lonely boy who is going to be the hero, and insta-loving.
As a matter of fact the insta-loving is when I said to hell with this book.
(hide spoiler)] Which brings me to the second thing Cline does a little differently, and which apparently was the actual inspiration behind writing the book.
not?Probably my two favorite things about this book were the ways that Zack (and thus Cline) kept pointing out all the sci-fi tropes he could, and explaining why they made no sense, and then actually making that an important part of the plot.
(hide spoiler)] The book in general was a bit more brutal than I was expecting, but I could deal with most of it, because most of it made sense for the story.All in all, Cline is still one of my favorite authors.
I expected something more original...  ZACK’S GAME I was really excited to read Armada since I read some months ago Ready Player One and I enjoyed A LOT that other book. So, reading the next novel by Ernest Cline was a obvious decision.I was aware of the basic premise, and I really hoped to read something fresh and original with the same sense of witty and humor found on Ready Player One, but while I can’t deny that Armada contains witty and humor, I didn’t find it fresh or original.Any big rea
But, being open to mention the awareness of those projects and excusing them as “being part of a bigger plan” to explain why Armada is so much like those previous stories, it isn’t a satisfactory scenario to justify the lack of originality in this novel.On the narrative, there is even a large and meticulous list of all works about alien invasions, military sci-fi and books/movies about using civilians (usually teenagers) in video game simulations to train them for real military duties.
WINNER: WORST BOOK OF THE YEAR 2015!Could we have a moment of silence for my love of pop culture references?
I'm sure there will be several uber nerds who will claim that that's why I didn't "get" this novel, because I wasn't born wearing a Star Trek uniform.)Ernest Cline is, quite simply, the Stephenie Meyers of science fiction.
His next book will likely be a fantasy epic concerning a young wizard who flies around with a trio of dragons looking for a magical cube that can turn sex toys into shape-shifting robots.
Armada is so self aware that I'm honestly surprised Cline didn't reference himself in the book.
This was disappointing, especially compared to Ready Player One. I'm definitely not the target audience for this, but...still. It's kinda fun, but also utterly predictable.(Also, to all the people that have commented on this review and acted annoyed at me that it's more The Last Starfighter than Ender's Game: Haven't seen The Last Starfighter. Don't care to. No need to get after me about it.)Pre-review:So basically...Ender's Game?Sure, why not? This'll probably be better than Ender's Game anyway.
So, July, 14 2015 couldn't be any more accurate release date for "ARMADA"I mean,March, 24 2015The X-Files 'Worldwide Popular 90s TV Series Started 1993' returns in new 6 episodes next year, after 13 years since it ended.April, 20 2015Independence Day: Resurgence, sequel to major 1996 international blockbuster, began filming 20 years since the first one.& to Sci-Facts..July, 14 2015Pluto, the planet..finally got close-up images & detailed observations of it and its moons.  July, 23 2015Ea
Mixing other Sci-Fiction Novels, Movies and Video Games and their releasing dates with Sci-Facts and a HUGE conspiracy theory..First I have to admit that's I'm not a fan of Star Wars, Star Trek, Ender's Game ,even Battleship and all space fight kind of crap "Ooops sorry fans"..
He goes into his father old possessions and re-read a note that made him disturbed before..it seems that his father was connecting since the 70s till his passing away in 1999 every sci-fi blockbuster movies,Aliens invasion novels and space wars games releasing dates, and connecting it with interesting conspiracy theories about it.
I'm not a real gamer, so most of Cline's video game worship goes right over my head, but I get 95% of his movie references in here and most of his musical ones, too.But what exactly is the point?
I know people like nostalgia, but WHO is reading this?Do teenagers nowadays love, worship and know 1980s culture?
I was getting very upset.4.) This book is a lot like watching someone else play a video game.What are you saying?I'm saying the book is fucking boring, is what I'm saying.
Not as epic or as good (in any way) as its predecessor Armada does feature Cline’s inimitable ability to weave elements of pop culture, especially gaming and SF/F, into a fun adventure.At best it is a cool Pink Floyd song, at worst a stupid Adam Sandler film.
Borrowing heavily from such classics as Ender's Game, Last Starfighter and The Sirens of Titan Cline mails in a follow-up in lieu of a straight up sequel.In the winter of 1986 I went to the movies with some friends to see the action film Iron Eagle.
It'd've been fine with additional, modern references - 80's references are fine - it's just that it begins to sound like that's the only worthy decade when that's far from the truth and arguably only the beginning of a very many great decades for geekery that only got better.It's reinforced by the fact that only those other characters who also know 80's lore are considered with it, cool, on fleek (that's what the kids are saying these days right?
I enjoyed it quite a bit and I admit that my expectations were nigh-on insurmountable after how much I fell for Ready Player One. I still enjoyed Armada, I just won't be fondly remembering my time with the book like I still do with RPO.
"Kill or be killed. Conquer or be conquered. Survive or go extinct." My review of Cline's first novel: Ready Player OneIf you clicked on the link above and read my review of RPO, you would know that I was completely blown away by his first novel. RPO will always be my favorite novel of all time, and that fact managed to alter my expectations when it comes to the Sci-Fi genre. I haven't read a novel as good as RPO, but hopefully I'd find one soon. After I finished it last year, I checked if Clin
The first paragraph was more of a backstory of why I read this novel in the first place, and the shorter version of the reason would be that Ernest Cline is one of my favorite authors ever, and also because the premise of Armada was compelling as fuck.Let's talk about the plot.
I only really wish for something specific to happen in the end if I liked the characters, and it's a great thing that I was attached to most of them.I played a lot of geeky stuff growing up, so plus points for Cline, once again.
Ummm, Last Starfighter? Whatever, WANT!
4.5First things first: if you go into Armada trying to compare it to Ready Player One you're doing a great disservice to yourself and this book.
They are two very different entities.
While I love the common thread of gaming running through both books, the space nerd in me was squeeing the whole way through this one.That being said, I really really loved this.
The pop culture references were once again top notch and I really really dig government conspiracy theories.
It was a bit intense having this whole book take place in one day but I'm not sure I can imagine it any other way.
The story lacked originality and felt like a mashup of Red Dawn, ET and Close Encounters that is sold as a new inventive plot.The constant pop culture references became extremely tiring and forced.
Often they did not make sense in the context of the story and characters: it's funny how every single character regardless of age immediately gets obscure references to the 80's and 90's.Overall I felt extremely disappointed with this book.
The characters felt unrealistic and one dimensional and the writing itself lacked depth.I wouldn't mind reading another book by Cline, but I do hope that his next work tackles some new and original material.
The new book is again a novel with pop culture references galore, but whereas Ready Player One was like a love letter to the 80s set in not-too-distant future, Armada takes place in present day with a shift in focus to all things sci-fi and gaming.Needless to say, as an avid gamer with particular penchant towards massively multiplayer online (MMO) games, I must shamelessly confess to having a natural inclination to stories of this type; more than once, reading Armada made me wish that Eve Online and Dust 514 played like the games described in the book, or that Star Citizen was released already.
Fans of his first novel  Ready Player One will find themselves transported into a world of geeky allusions, a diverse cast of characters, and honestly, a really, really good time.Now it's inevitable to compare Armada to RPO because of Cline centering both around the idea of video games and virtual reality.
However, while there are similarities (the narrator Zack is quite similar in voice to RPO's Wade Watts; tons of nerdy references, action-adventure, and more), this one still stands apart and on its own.
Most of the action of the book takes place in 24 hours.
Zack's life changes from that day, and he must defend the Earth from an alien invasion.
Will he save the day?I listened to the audio version of this book, and I have to say Wil Wheaton is amazing.
When I was a child I use to write little stories about aliens coming to earth.
It was funny to me to think of my childhood writings, where aliens come down to earth to take over the world.
I use to read so many alien books.
I gave this book 3 stars.I am going to preface my review by saying I really didn't enjoy reading this book very much.
So much of the story involved having things explained to me and there was very little immediate action, which was hard to get into at best - a snorefest at worst.Not only did the main character experience insta-love, but it seemed literally everyone else in the book did too.
Repetitive.I found the plot predictable, INCREDIBLY unbelievable, and so, so many things felt too easy, too convenient.
So meh!Overall, I just didn't enjoy it very much.
Sale Alert 23May17 on Amazon for $2.99 HereBefore you pick this book up you need to ask yourself…’Am I ready to get my geek on???’ As soon as I saw that Ernest Cline author of Ready Player One had another book coming out and it was narrated by Wil Wheaton my amazon/audible one click pre-order went cRaZy and I shoved my money at them.I’m just going to put it out there I liked Ready Player One more.
I know that my geek meter was pegged out as I had the best time looking to catch movie lines, character references and gaming lingo and there was a plethora of that dropped all throughout the story.
And even though Ernest Cline references those exact things, Wargames, Enders Game, The Last Starfigher, Starwars etc, he's not doing a variation of it, just flat out doing the same thing.
THE SAME EXACT PLOT.On top of that, a kid his age would not reference the 80's films with his friends.
Leeroy Jenkins was a really funny relevant thing 10 years ago, that would NOT be mentioned in what ever fictional game he was playing.
(Leeroy Jenkins is a World of Warcraft reference.) Unless it made a come back on the internet, they wouldn't be saying it.
In Armada Zack Lightman is a high school student who loves his video games.
When his mother pressures him to think about the future he claims he'll be happy staying in his job at the local video game store.One day at school Zack happens to see something in the sky outside that has his mind spinning.
There in the sky is one of the ships straight out of his favorite video game.
Ernest Cline put his own twist onto the video game training for war trope though and it really was a fun read overall that I enjoyed.
Is it weird that I felt trolled throughout the whole entire book, but I kinda really liked it?! I liked how its very different from Ready Player One and how it is good in its own way, so there really isn't much reason to compare both of the books. Nonetheless Ernest Cline still managed to be just as funny, quirky and geeky which was great! Since Armada had an open ending, I wonder if there'll be a sequel..
First of all there was far too much shoehorning of irrelevant pop culture references, that not only wouldn't be understood by the majority of the target audience (having been born way after these movies / games were even relevant anymore), but also seemed to serve no other purpose than showing how much Cline knew about 80s/90s media.
It feels very much like this was the case.Finally, and perhaps most offensively, is that this book had SUCH great potential to examine a lot of very current and hard-hitting subjects: primarily the use of drone warfare by the American government, and their recruitment of teenagers and young adults from large video game tournaments to pilot said drones.
The gaming and terminology elements worked outstandingly well in RPO, but I just wasn't feeling them as much in this book.
Armada is a good book in its own right, and maybe me reading it right after RPO didn't do it any justice.
Don't go into this expecting another Ready Player One.The story is centered around Zack Lightman.
Zack’s gaming skills have made him one of the top gamers in the world at his favorite videogame Armada, but now they will be needed to help determine the fate of Earth.
As I said above, some of the things that I felt worked really well in RPO, just fell a little flat for me in Armada.
This book felt less edited, more stream of consciousness, and leaning even more heavily on geek cool and nostalgia.Whereas Ready Player One had a genuinely original story, Armada unapologetically cribs its plot from The Last Starfighter / Ender's Game; acknowledging this within the book didn't make it any less derivative.
"[Moon Base Alpha] reminded me of the docking bay of the Clavius Base featured in 2001: A Space Odyssey"); at first this is an interesting idea, technology borrowing from sci-fi, but as the examples piled up it started feeling like abject laziness - rather than invent something new, the author gets to just steal from his favorite sci-fi.This book did have a positive effect, which was to inspire me to reread Ender's Game for comparison.
Snarky pre-release review:I thought there already was a novelization of The Last Starfighter...
Many many thoughts about this book. I pretty much speed read through it so I'm going to wait until I can re-read with the audiobook and put everything into words. I loved it... I also disliked the obvious setup for a sequel - that's not very fair to us who have been waiting so anxiously for this book to see more coming on the horizon.
