https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24800.House_of_Leaves
I would just like to reiterate that it's been ten years since I wrote this and I don't know that it actually reflects the way I would feel about the book if I read it now, so please don't yell at me about it - I don't even know how I could possibly respond.
I respect House of Leaves, I cannot stress how much I loved the story, but I pretty much hate the book.This book looks at you with this smug fucking smile on it's face, daring you to say that you don't like it, knowing that masses of people are going to go along with it because they don't want to look stupid.
One year I had a good friend of mine living in my building, and upon one of her visits to my room I put The House of Leaves in her hand, telling her that she should read it.
Every person I've ever met who has read this book has had something to say about it, something more personal than just "Oh yeah, I liked that," or "It's overhyped." There's a visceral reaction this book can elicit, and I find that fascinating.I was talking to a friend of mine yesterday and she mentioned something David Mamet said once, something along the lines of "When you leave the theater wanting to discuss the play, that's a good play.
House of Leaves is difficult at times, incredibly complex, occasionally pretentious, and (view spoiler)[ it doesn't neatly wrap up some of the biggest questions it raises (hide spoiler)].When I finished it, I thought I was unsatisfied with (view spoiler)[the ending (hide spoiler)], but it lived in me long after I closed the book.
(hide spoiler)]Here's the thing about House of Leaves: you can enjoy it simply as a horrifying story that could possibly be true.
You'll grab that copy of Poe's Haunted that you bought before you knew House of Leaves existed, and you'll listen to it again in an entirely new way.You'll discover that you live at the end of a five and a half minute hallway....Or maybe you won't.
Hmmm - well, the house story is pretty good - yes, stolen from numerous genre horror books and movies, likeNo, not that one!!
Channelling all the badboys he can think of, Bukowski, and that other fellow whose name I can't think of, and the other one, you know who I mean, yeah, him, Johnny Truant is inclined to spout off into pages of incomprehensible rantings at the drop of a tab, and it's just as interesting as someone describing their most brilliant acid trip, which is to say, it's really unbelievably tiresome.
Hey, is it just me, or is American Horror Story Roanoke episodes 1-5 a mega rip off of this?
Only those that have read House of Leaves can possibly know...As avant garde as any novel's got the right to be!
It is all about condensing and expanding the parameters of the novel, heck, of the tangible object.
It makes a case of molding the form like clay-doh; a book is stationary no more...
(!!!)You open the book and a dissection, an exploration is made.
Can you imagine what Borges would have made of this?"House of Leaves": A damn necessary read.

The problem (interpret the use of the word problem here as being either good or bad depending on your own perspective) with House of Leaves is that while the words printed inside the pages (leaves) are telling you one thing and sending your thoughts in one direction, the actual layout, font, size and colour of the text are sending out a whole other set of messages.
As a work in its own right, and not just as a story or series of conjoined narratives, House of Leaves will probably mean different things to different people.
4.5/5 stars!I plan to do a video review of this soon, so look forward to that :)
Looking for a spooky book to read around Halloween I was recommended this book by several others on a message board I frequent.
The book and all of these notes are his reactions to watching the documentary film.The old man's ramblings reads like a textbook, replete with tons of footnotes, fake references, poems, rantings.
But we don't get to just read his reaction, or simply walk through the documentary, we have to suffer through the slacker's constant juvenile side stories and craziness.The premise is brilliant, and flipping through the book the first time, I was pumped at the prospect of the book.
Totally infuriating. It made me feel dumb, bored, and annoyed all at once. If I want that, I'll date my first boyfriend again.
He is basically informed of the passing of a blind man called Zampanò who lives in the same apartment building as his friend Lude.
Following this, he comes across a trunk of Zampanò's notes and papers about a movie called The Navidson Record, a documentary about a family moving into a peculiar house on Ash Tree Lane.
Except this Navidson record is told in extreme detail by Zampanò -- a blind man, remember -- who includes tons upon tons of individual interpretations, theories and all sorts provided by various critics serving as the intellectual perspective of this gradually terrifying documentary.
It means to suffer.”If you’ve ever wanted to read a novel about a group of editors who have re-compiled a second edition of a book, that was originally found (and edited) by a slowly mentally unraveling tattoo artist apprentice junkie, and was originally written in a mixed media form by his junkie friend’s neighbor (found when he died under mysterious circumstances), that is a written description, history and analysis of a “found footage” documentary (that doesn’t exist) about a family inhabiting and exploring a house that is (much, much) larger on the inside than the outside, and is told in such a nonlinear and disorienting fashion to the point of inducing trepidation, extreme boredom, claustrophobia, anxiety, and general unease, then I’ve got some great news for you!
I think this just about sums it up:
I also get the impression this is one of those books where you need to read every word between the front and back covers...footnotes, chapter epigraphs, maybe even the review excerpts and publication information.Made it through the second chapter last night.
Possibly a bad sign for my sanity.Toward the end of Chapter V, an editor's footnote tells us that one who wants to better understand Johnny Truant's past would do well to read his father's obituary and his mother's correspondence during the time she was institutionalized.
Reading the upside- down words, trying to decipher the silly footnotes, and the crossed- out comments, making sense of the narrative, both of them on the same page, well you get my drift, some will be frustrated, the rest amused; good luck...All the above is true...House of Leaves, love or hate you will not forget...Johnny Truant, in his early 20's, works at a tattoo parlor, a drifter, junkie, plagued by bad, horrendous dreams, waking up dripping wet in bed, very afraid, maybe inheriting a family curse, he needs the drugs to function.
Will Navidson, is a brave man, wants to explore the building, not a wise idea .
Befriending our shadow involves forgiveness and love.The beautiful maze of a book follows two major paths, that of the tattoo artist Johnny Truant and The Navidson Report.
It caused Johnny’s mental dissolution.Echoes are reflections that affects the perspectives of the mind.Perspectives:Within the book itself, there is the Editors' perspectives, encompassing Johnny's perspective, encompassing Zampano's perspective, encompassing Navidson's perspective, encompassing the house and its inhabitants.
In total, counting us, the people, who had encountered or heard tales of the real "leaves" circulating via the internet and Poe's music, more than just within the book, it would be - us, MZD, Editors, Johnny, Zampano, Navidson, House and its inhabitants.
I've decided not to go into the plot, because it, (they?) really can't be fully explained in such a limited venue as a book review.
3. If you think you're going to come out of a first reading knowing everything there is to know about House of Leaves, I just want to tell you- you're not.
I recommend this book highly, solely for the experience of reading it.
The varied plot lines may or may not appeal to you as I've mentioned, but the experience of reading this book itself is not to be missed.
What books have you read that could be called an  experience?
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/3.5 StarsAre you looking for a book with a plotline a little something like this???? If so, House of Leaves might be right up your alley.The simple synopsis (and the only one you're going to get from me) is this is the story of Will, Karen, and their dream home, told through various narrators. I read House of Leaves before I started "writing" (a/k/a imaging) reviews. I don't make a habit of going back and posting something for a previo
If so, House of Leaves might be right up your alley.The simple synopsis (and the only one you're going to get from me) is this is the story of Will, Karen, and their dream home, told through various narrators.
I read House of Leaves before I started "writing" (a/k/a imaging) reviews.
House of Leaves is a book that deserves a review - mainly to justify the 3.5 Star rating.To begin, reading this book is a daunting task.
However, I think House of Leaves is one of those books that EVERYONE should attempt and I wish it would pop up on more of those "100 Books to Read Before You Croak" lists.
The book seems to take pride in trying its damnedest to give you a headache, and then expects you to like it (unless Danielewski is a sociopath, and wants people to suffer while reading this, in which case I've misinterpreted).House of Leaves gives off the impression of a modern art experiment, daring you to say it's pointless even as it flips the sentences sideways and has one word per page for a whole paragraph.
One of the reviews I read of this book compared it positively (bewilderingly) to The Blair Witch Project.
I agree, only I thought The Blair Witch project was primarily a ninety-minute gimmick, and not particularly engaging, at that.
Every person I know who has a brain currently, previously, or aspires to one day have a brain, who has read this book, swears by it.
I recognize that I am the only person in the world to feel this way, but I just plain did not like this book much.
Everything has been said but not everyone has said it yet.  - Rep. Morris Udall at the 1988 Democratic convention I've put in so many enigmas and puzzles that it will keep the professors busy for centuries arguing over what I meant, and that's the only way of insuring one's immortality. - James Joyce in a reply reply for a request for a plan of Ulysses  The thoroughly well-informed man--that is the modern ideal. And the mind of the thoroughly well-informed man is a dreadful thing. It is like a
Danielewski's first novel, and he devoted 10 years (that's like 10 whole years!) to write it - and like so many first novels it is full of what the author wanted to show off about his knowledge: House of Leaves is the book which will jump up to you and scream in your face, "look at me!
This approach did breed some interesting offspring, such as the intriguing YouTube series Marble Hornets - creepy and addictive!House of Leaves takes the Blair Witch approach with the Navidson Record, but the constant footnotes and interruptions make it impossible to lose track of the fact that you're reading an analysis of an analysis of a film.
An old, blind guy who begins collecting various researched fragments of “the house on Ash Tree Lane” for a possible book on the subject.
When I first started reading ‘House of Leaves’, more than one GR buddy passed along interesting stories surrounding other readers explorations into this book.
Here are a few still percolating thoughts on why this book produces such a strong reaction.1) Separation of fact and fiction: ‘House of Leaves’ is presented as a fully researched factual document.
So, I liked House of Leaves but wouldn't call it great or brilliant.
I liked the concept of a cache of papers found detailing a possibly ficticious film about a house with impossible dimensions and the maze of mind bogglingly large size in its closet.
I understand that the informational footnotes were supposed to make it seem more real and the rambling narrator's footnotes were supposed to show his descent into madness while he compiled the work but the whole thing felt like the author was saying "Look at me!
I'm ever so clever!" Strip away the gimmicks and you have a haunted house that's a little thin.
It seemed like every time I went to the book store I would run into House of Leaves and it was like coming upon an accident and telling yourself you are not going to slow down and look but are unable to help yourself.
"What the Fuck did I just read?"I am reminded of the movie, Blair Witch Project, for the reason that, like the movie, House of Leaves is presented as an actual cache of writings that has been discovered and released in a book form.
I kind of have the same panicky feeling I had when people would see me reading and ask what this book was about.
I knew there was no way I could convey the brilliance of this book in just a couple light-conversational sentences.
And while I've gotten pretty good at pretending to work while I'm actually playing around on Goodreads, I'm not that good...yet.
I think I went through an entire thing of Post-Its, that are now sticking out of the book every which way covered with crazy quotes and questions.
I don't think I've ever gotten so involved in a story before.
I couldn’t resist seeing how Zorro had used his visual effects to service the story, and certainly, these page-bending moments are responsible for the most powerful moments in the text.
Firstly, this is an “audiovisual novel”—portions of the text are dictated to the reader (left blank on the page), while other portions are dictated by the reader, forcing the reader to complete various sections for his/herself (using their own pens or computers).
I also want to achieve a “lava lamp” effect on page 628, where a kaleidoscope of colours moves across the text in an ocular swirl.
To read House of Leaves is to witness a microcosm of the downfall of society: any semblance of truth and meaning is abandoned and replaced with monotonous, faux-intellectual nonsense; pathetic attempts at literary pyrotechnics become no more impressive than watching one's reflection in a funhouse mirror.
What Danielewski has created is no literary masterpiece, merely a laughable attempt at disguising his dry and unexciting writing into something else entirely, which has been contorted beyond any enjoyable means by its creator's own self-indulgence.I'll conclude on a lighter note: a good novel should have intercourse with its reader.
An Academic Analysis of "House of Leaves" by Mark DanielewskiThis book, written in 2000, makes it onto many notable 'must read horror' lists [1 - Publisher’s Weekly Reading Scared, 2010, ranker.com List of Scariest Novels 2015, Guardian’s Holy Shit, did I just read that?
At one point, there is a section that is written in code, solvable for the diligent reader if they take the time to note every first letter of each word, but I really couldn’t be arsed to figure THAT one out.
I couldn’t care less how you read any of this.” [5 - somewhere in the pages of "House of Leaves"] Alrighty then.
I thought if the dreams kept up I would have to stop reading the book, but they stopped after two nights.I don’t know about you, Goodreader, but when I was a kid, movies about possessed houses or haunted houses scared me shitless.
For much of the novel, you know there was a house, and you know something terrible happened in the house, but you don’t find out what it was right away.***half an hour later***Let’s just say it is rare that I react out loud to a book.
Little solace comesto those who grievewhen thoughts keep drifting as walls keep shiftingand this great blue world of oursseems a house of leavesmoments before the wind. Experimental meta-horror best entered with a blank slate. An experience that absorbed me like the house.
