https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/415107.Abraham_Lincoln
I think the art in this book is good, nice colors.
Much too long for a bedtime story.I read this to the kids and we needed to bookmark our place and go to bed as it was taking so long.
Both kids did not want to continue the story and asked to simply Not finish.
I finished the story, but the kids did not.
I don't think they did a good job picking parts of the story.
The parts of Abe's childhood are good and it should have focused solely on that part for the whole book.
I like the focus on his early life; he is shown to have a strong work ethic and a great desire to learn.
He is depicted as a man of strong moral courage, as well as a loving father.
I understand that this was first published in 1939, but I cringed at those illustrations.The d’Aulaires were immigrants to America, and when the book was written the world was anxiously watching the events in Germany that would lead to a world war.
They may have erred on the side of hero-worship in their portrayal of Lincoln, but I like that they portrayed a man willing to stand up against injustice.
The pictures are the most enjoyable part of this book about Lincoln and why I'm giving this book two stars instead of one.
My favorite picture came on page 18.Many of the anecdotes in this book were familiar to me, probably ingrained from visiting many Lincoln sites and reading other books.
Major people in Lincoln's life receive no name at all, such as his stepmother and three of his four boys.The book also dodges any mention of death other than the death of his mother.
There's nothing in this book about his sister's death or the two of his own sons that died during Lincoln's life.
When I was banished to the library in Kindergarten because I already knew how to read, this was the book that started it all...my strange obsession with Abe Lincoln. This book had just come in. The PTA mom was putting the stickers and cover protector on it when I spotted it. I thought it would be so neat to be the first one to read a book, this book. Now as an adult this could be a contributing factor to my love of biographies and memoirs.
And the illustrations (color and B&W) would have engaged many children.However this book felt like larger than life folklore (almost tall tale like) trying to masquerade as biography.Also the book felt didactic in its portrayal of Lincoln protecting a "peaceful Indian" and feeling slavery was cruel.
And I feel that it conveys a message (from the day) at those points that people of color are "less than" - needing a big white savior, and the illustration of "Negroes" thanking Lincoln bothers me with its strange look of overly happy people in blackface.
Pretty realistic depictions, although the black people look mostly the same and have goofy "blackface" faces--not exactly flattering.Abraham Lincoln grows up, beats up some pirates, studies law, and ultimately becomes president in this wonderful book.
The illustrations of black people were pretty bad, though, as mentioned above.The Indian War was also dubiously justified: "...an Indian chief, Black Hawk, had come back to Illinois with his warriors.
His tribe had sold the land to the 'paleface,' but Black Hawk said: 'Man-ee-do, the great spirit, gave us the land, it couldn't be sold.' 'Sold is sold,' said the people of Illinois, and went to war to chase the Indians out." Ouch.
I guess I think that despite his depression and his faults, Lincoln was an amazing and rare person--one of few politicians who can stand up to mythologizing.
What's funny is that after I read it to 6-year-old Logan, he asked if Lincoln was a real person and when I said yes, I could see he was a little disappointed.
He's always so suspicious that he might be "learning" something and he views non-fiction as a pernicious purveyor of boring facts.
I liked the fact that the story stops right after the end of the civil war.
It tells the life story of this important American hero from his birth in the wilderness in Kentucky through the reunion of the states following the civil war.
The book does not cover the tragic end of his life, which in my opinion is great.
I gave this book a 3-star rating for its effective telling of an important story and its child-friendly style.
Some pages contain simple pencil etchings mingled with the text, while other illustrations are full-page drawings in bright colors that allow the reader to enter the world of this great American hero.
This book was chosen for our first month of Caldecott winning books.
I have several books by this author/illustrator team but had not read this one before.
The illustrations are beautiful.
Back in 1939 when this was published the d'Aulaire's used their Norwegian art style with the Old World process of stone lithography.
Using color back then was a long, difficult process.
I have always loved their pictures and now appreciate this beauty of their artistic talent with the story of Lincoln.
But the Caldecott award would still stand as having this book one of the most distinguished picture books for children.

This book focuses a lot on the youth and formative adult years of Lincoln, although it tells his whole life's story.
The colored pencil illustrations add much to the story with country and city scenes and a tall lanky figure and surrounding friends and family throughout.
This story gives further insight into the good character attributes of Lincoln.
It also tells of difficulties encountered in his personal life and his career path.
Like a good storyteller's tale there are many colorful scenes in this book.
From reading this, one sees the trail of escapades, encounters, decisions and situations and people that formed Abraham into the upstanding person that he was.
A historically inaccurate, condescending, faux-folk history that talks down to children and pretties up Abraham Lincoln's life.What is it about the 1930s that encouraged people to create fake histories?
Colonial Williamsburg dates to the 1930s, as does the whole centennial-of-the-origin-of-baseball myth of Abner Doubleday (which would have surprised Jane Austen, who wrote of it in England in the 1790s).
I don't even want to get into European fake folksy history of the 1930s.So fine, here's a mythic fake history of Abraham Lincoln as if he were Paul Bunyan or something.I got more information about Lincoln from visiting his tomb.
At least it mentioned his sons' deaths.
This book is on the long side, but still short for a history, so it ends up being a larger-than-life tale about the over-sized man, president and pillar in the American story and mythology. The illustrations that get the full space of the over-sized pages to spread out have a two-dimensional and folk Americana feel. It is surprising that the book ends without a mention of his assassination. 2.4 stars (not much for a Caldecott medalist, but 1940 was a very lean year in my opinion).
This is the 1940 Caldecott winner we were going to wait to read this until after we read Mei Li the 1938 winner but my 5-year-old found it in the library bag and was so excited to read the book about the baby who grew up. One thing that I'm finding interesting about these early winners is how long they are. They are not meant to be read in a 5 minute sitting like so many of our children's books are today.
This is one of the earliest winners of the Caldecott Medal. The stories it tells are memorable, and -- though I haven't researched them -- feel accurate to the character of Abraham Lincoln. My 38 year old son saw it sitting on the table, and said, "Oh, I remember reading that book." See? Memorable.
In reading Caldecott books, this is the first year (1940) that I have been really impressed with the illustrations, as well as the stories. This book beat out Madeline (an honor book in 1940), and I can see where that happened. This book is much more text heavy, which fits with earlier winners of the medal.
This was my first Lincoln biography.This story was in a "children's best" book that I was given as a gift so long ago that I can't remember when. It was one of the few books I owned. I loved the pictures and loved ol' Abe. It won the Caldecott Medal in 1940 beating out Madeleine.
This biography written in 1939 is quite charming although a bit dated and probably idealized. The pictures are wonderful—even my four-year-old agrees—and certainly deserving of the Caldecott medal they earned.
Good book!
My kids loved this book.
Caldecott Medal Winner, 1940I have always loved the d'Aulaire's books. I'm pretty sure this isn't actually the best biography of Lincoln out there, but I do so enjoy their illustrations.
This was a favorite of mine when I was a little kid. Good memories! One of the first books that sparked my interest in history.
Good biography for elementary.
Solid book for my kids to read and understand some of the background of Lincoln's life.
Nice version of Lincoln's life. Great pictures. Interesting what they included and what they left out. It does not talk about his death.
I enjoyed the first portion of this book, but, later on in the book there are a few discrepancies with other historical accounts.
Recently, I finished reading Russell Freeman's Lincoln: A Photobiography which I enjoyed a lot better.
This is a very wordy book despite it's picture book appearance.
Freeman's book isn't really that much longer but has a much more complete view of Lincoln and avoids most of the unverified anecdotes present in this book.
This is really too long for a picture book.
If you are looking for a picture book biography, itty bitty bios and couple other similar series are a better choice.
This is no brief picture book, but a balanced story of Lincoln's life, up to the last beautiful page that shows the tired war-president seated in an armchair beside Tad Lincoln.Professional Recommendation/Review #2: PSU LibrariesCyndi GiorgisThe d'Aulaires' biography of Abraham Lincoln was the recipient of the third Caldecott Medal and was illustrated with lithographs in five colors on stone.
The story opens with Abe as a child, which helps children relate to him as they are reading.Consideration of Instructional Application: I would use this book when in a second grade classroom if the focus was on a specific president.
1940 Caldecott Award Winner. I love this story and the illustrations. A very detailed account of Abe Lincoln's life.
His presidency goes throughthe Civil War and frees slaves with the Emancipation Proclamation and becomes famous with hisGettysburg Address.Theme: Abraham was an honest all American hero that played a huge part in U.S. history.Analysis:Characterization: He is portrayed by the authors as a young boy from the boonies that strives tolearn and make something of himself.
All these events really make Abe seem like an honest, down to earth, all Americanhero.Tone: The tone of this book does not sound opinionated at all.
But my expectations were cut short since the book failed to cover Abraham Lincoln's assassination.
Students can learn about the thirteenth President of the United States, Abraham Lincoln.
After reading the book I would have students write about the qualities of a good president and why this qualities are important.
5. WONDERSI wonder…a)	Most biographies cover the time period of a person’s birth through their death, I wonder why the author of this book chose not to talk about Abraham’s Lincoln’s death/assassination?b)	Why did Abraham Lincoln wear a stovepipe hat if he was already very tall?c)	How old was Sally, Lincoln’s sister when she got married?
