https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/98685.Genius
"The first principle is that you must not fool yourself and you are the easiest person to fool."- Richard Feynman"Physics is like sex: sure, it may give some practical results, but that's not why we do it."- Richard FeynmanFeynman was lucky in three ways.
Second, Feynman was lucky to be born at the right time.
All of these things combined with Feynman's iconoclastic nature, his perseverance and single-mindedness, his capacity to get to the root of problems, put Feynman second to Einstein in 20th century minds.The book itself is a very good example of scientific biography.
I recently finished reading Genius: The Life and Science of Richard Feynman, by James Gleick.
I’m a big fan of Gleick’s.
And in this bio of Feynman, who was one of the midwives of the atomic bomb, Gleick illustrates just how important Feynman’s thinking has been to our modern understanding of physics, and therefore, of energy.
Feynman grappled with the big questions about matter, science, and the quest for human knowledge and understanding.
One of my favorite parts of Gleick’s book comes early on, when he talks about Feynman’s effort to distill human understanding of science into as short a passage as possible.
His career neatly parallels the modern perception of science: theoretical physics was transformed from a discipline akin, in practical application, to "medieval French", to a near-religion, captivating the awed respect of the public, and leading to enormous increases in governmental research spending and the development of "Big Science".
Feynman's thinking was, in speed and clarity, unlike that of normal people.One final point: in an interview with the BBC retold by Gleick, Feynman becomes quite agitated when asked to explain in layman's terms how magnets work.
I do not do well with audiobooks.
When I come back to the audiobook, I usually have no idea what's going on.
I recently launched into Genius, James Gleick's biography of Richard Feynman, and this experience has been surprisingly different.
I suspect it has to do with the gorgeous style and structure of Gleick's writing here.
To tell Feynman's story, he has to guide us through the recent history of physics, which he manages to do with remarkable grace.
It's the story of a remarkable person in a remarkable time.
A Nobel Prize winner, Feynman’s contribution to physics was more about developing original techniques that clarified complex problems than any singular discovery.
As we follow Feynman’s life we learn how particle physics and its community evolved in the mid twentieth century from the formulation of quantum mechanics to the standard model.
Wigner’s sister was married to Dirac, who was a hero to Feynman.In 1939 John Wheeler, a distinguished theoretician who later would coin the term “black hole”, was a 28 year old Professor at Princeton.
By the time he was a 22 year old graduate student Feynman with Wheeler’s help was giving a presentation attended by Einstein, Pauli and mathematical genius John von Neumann.
Fantastic bio of Feynman, and likely the best (in the same vein as Isaacson's takes on Einstein or Jobs) that we'll see. Highly recommended for anyone interested in the nature of science during Feynman's rise — a period where quantum mechanics was very much developing and characters like Feynman were radically unorthodox.Hearing Feynman's story is truly inspirational and makes you want to go out and discover things.
Obviously, one cannot learn everything, but I never, until this book, felt that avenues were not open to me, intellectually.
In reading the stories in this book, it became clear to me that these people weren't just more educated than me in their academic specialties, but on an entire (much) higher plane--in some place I could NEVER achieve, no matter how hard I ever could work on it.
It was fun to read this book for me because it portray genius in a way that is entertaining to me, much like watching great athletes in the arena plying their trade.
Very impressive biography of Feynman. Extremely interesting book - although with Feynman's life, it isn't too hard to make an interesting story out of it. Good balance of lucid scientific explanations and biographical narrative.
A book that really re-awakened my inner science and math geek. In addition it introduced me to Feynman. I'm sure his name came up back in classes I took, but there is so much here that you'd never get from a one-liner in a textbook. A very interesting character. By funny happenstance, I read this right before reading Cosmic Banditos by Weisbecker. Cosmic coincidence?-Jeremy
I liked his description of how young Feynman played around as a kid, luckily he had tolerant parents:(view spoiler)[Eventually the art went out of radio tinkering.
Its parts expressed their function, once he learned to break the code of wires, resistors, crystals, and capacitors.Richard, called Ritty by his friends, seemed to be heading single-mindedly in that direction (becoming an electrical engineer).
Anodino. Imposible de acabar. De los pocos que he tenido que dejar a medias.
When reading his memoir(s) you only get a glimpse and rather slanted presentation if you are really wanting to learn about Richard Feynman.This book is really heavy on his scientific endeavors, which shouldn't be surprising.
I mentioned how much I thought I related to him.
Reading about him and his wife is touching but I still do not think I fully understand the man in his dealings with women.Talking merely about Feynman is an injustice to this particular book because his colleagues and the science of the time are heavily delved into, even more sometimes than about Feynman himself.
In fact maybe the book is just that, a history of the physics at that time, and Feynman is the star of the show.
Although I still don't have a deep knowledge of concepts like quantum theory, quantum mechanics, quantum electrodynamics or quantum chromodynamics, I do feel as thought I understand why they are important in physics and other sciences.I found the human stories of Feynman's first love (and marriage), his time at Los Alamos and his essential contributions to understanding the causes of the Challenger disaster to be great history and human interest.
Also, his views on the math and science textbooks used in grade schools was a refreshing episode that humanized him even more for me.And I learned that this book is really about two geniuses, Feynman and the author of the book, James Gleick.
I learned about Feynman as a teen, when I happened across an interview with him on tv.
His character and intellect fascinated me, and years later I decided to learn more about him.Gleick covers Feynman's entire life in this biography.
Feynman had a large, vital personality, and Gleick is able to convey this without parroting the tone and content that Feynman uses in his autobiographical work.
I've always been able to appreciate Feynman based on his own words; thanks to Gleick, I had the chance to see him from another perspective, and appreciate him all the more.
doesn't really add anything to "surely you're joking" and "what do you care what other people think?" that we couldn't live without. it was interesting, but most of the same information is available in more-engaging form elsewhere.
Big disappointment. Coming off of American Prometheus, the fantastic biography of Robert Oppenheimer, and having read a book or two of Gleick's earlier stuff, I was surprised that I couldn't even finish the damned thing. Tossed it into my donation pile a hundred pages in.
I used to think that Feynman was a fun, eccentric, bongo-playing scientist who wooed women.
He was a great fan of science and of using science to solve problems, but a terrible, awful, horrible scientist.
It is apparent that very few of his contributions were unique: He was so reluctant to participate in the scientific community that much of his work was duplicated by others.I had such realizations only far into the book, like an epiphany.
There was a passage about how Feynman wrote to James Watson about the latter's book, The Double Helix.
Feynman thought it was a great book and told Watson to ignore the haters.
Years later he married Gweneth Howarth, an English woman he met at a conference in Switzerland.Feynman along with Sally Ride and Alan Shepherd served on the Presidential commission that investigated the destruction of the space shuttle Challenger.Gleick was a science reporter and does a good job in his portrayal of scientific people and dramatizing the emergencies of new ideas.
The author demonstrates in the book that Feynman was a man of absolute integrity in his scientific work.
100% = 5 StarsThis is a science history book on a particular man's journey through both science and life.After reading this and others like it, it is safe to say that I love Richard Feynman.
What a person!
I mean, sure I idealize him some but everything that I have read of him I adore.
This book is fantastic and very very long.
It is slow to read, and thick, full of thought provoking concepts and it should not be rushed through.Seriously though, I have a ridiculous crush on this physicist from long ago and far away.
The book was a technical tour de force in the way it attempted to bring extremely esoteric and non intuitive concepts of small scale physics into a popular biography in such detail that it becomes possible to glimpse the nature of Feynman's genius rather than just be told about it.
That the physical explanations are dense and complex, and probably only partially grasped by the average reader, including your humble correspondent, is hardly The author's fault.A well written and ultimately humbling book for those of us with any intellectual pretensions.
Didn't make me particularly like Mr Feynman, but hard not to respect his accomplishments.
I thought this biography sucked. Though he may have had his facts exactly right, he missed the whole spirit of what made Feynman cool. I don't recommend it. I was very disappointed, too, because he did such a great job with the Chaos book.
- 55Some of them, though never Feynman, put their faith in Werner Heisenberg’s wistful dictum, “The equation knows best.” - 80(when published, Schwinger’s work would violate the Physical Review’s guidelines limiting the sprawl of equations across the width of the page) - 92“It was a unifying principle that would either explain everything or explain nothing.” - 123Their systems of equations represented a submicroscopic world defying the logic of everyday objects like baseballs and water waves, ordinary objects with, “thank God,” as W.
- 482The adult Richard Feynman became an adept teller of stories about himself, and through these stories came a picture of his father as a man transmitting a set of lessons about science.
How Feynmann is always in the search of mental shortcuts, especially in calculation (this was a time before calculators!), how Feynmann has a more physical intuition towards physics rather than his sometimes more mathematically-driven colleagues, how Feynmann was a genius who doesn't accept the solutions of others but have to work through the problems himself and how he left a lot of groundbreaking works behind because he wasn't interested enough in trying to publish it.Other themes that are less mentioned but still prominent enough are the his love to his first wife Arline and her early death and how that continued to some degree to affect him throughout this life, rivalries and adoration of other scientists and the influence of his father on his special way of thinking.At first glance the book is very thorough but it quickly becomes clear that Gleick perhaps tries to do too much.
This is the second Gleik book I’ve read and he impresses me as a biographer.
In this particular instance, I was impressed by the depth of his research and on how he nails the human element.Several thoughts on Genius: the only issue with biographies is that the hero always tends to die at the end, which is sad...
and when I read biographies of brilliant people, I always end up asking myself whether I wish I would lead that kind of life.
In Feynman’s case (as with Claude Shannon, whose biography I read earlier this year) I think I would prefer to experience the life of these geniuses’ fathers as it must be quite something!
A remarkable lifeIf you have interest in quantum mechanics and the physicists who have studied the universe at it’s smallest, you will like this book. One warning: It’s worth fighting through the dense science that’s sprinkled throughout. You will come away with an understanding of the complexities of Richard Feynman, the man, and the complexities of his work.
It's not perfect, missing huge pieces of Feynman's later life and dedicating almost no attention to his family, but the book is amazing. 4.5 stars
One of my intellectual heroes. Brilliant, creative mind.
This is an extremely good book. The humane aspects of Feynman's character somehow make him look even more like a towering genius. In some ways he was like the rest of us, but only in the ways that don't really matter. Gleick writes beautifully.
I thoroughly enjoy reading about Richard Feynman and his approach to problem solving — add to this the narration of James Gleick and you've got a pretty enjoyable read.
Surly you are joking Mr. Feynman, aren't you?A respectable and admirable work. This book interprets Feynman as "A different being who plays human" way. I have to say that the book ignored some details in certain events, is it for their insignificance or something else that's not clear for me. Would definitely enjoy listening to it again.
