https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/816953.Someone_Like_You
I've heard all about the bad boy boyfriend, the pregnant best friend, the writer mom, but I wanted to hear the story from the point of Cameron!
How out of the blue would it be to read a story about a boy who moves into a new town and befriends a pregnant girl whose baby's father is dead?...(and perhaps is in love with her, but DOESN'T push a relationship on her???)I would rather have that story!But, Dessen would not write that story, because she sticks to her own "personality-less main character girl who's secondary characters are much more 3-D" book genre.
This book hit so close to home for me.
Scarlett's story is close to my own with her unexpected pregnancy as a teenager and her struggles.
I even had my own 'Halley' to help me (my bf Sara) along the way to take care of me, tell me everything was ok, and just to be there.
I've decided I'm going to get this book for my Sara because I'm sure it will mean just as much to her as it does to me.
It was even interesting that Scarlett's baby has the same initials as my baby!
I would never be strong enough, in all my life, to do without her.”  *Sniffs* I have read enough books by Ms.Sarah Dessen to prove the she has never failed to give me exactly what I want from a contemporary YA read.
The story is basically about a 16 year old girl named Halley as she discovers herself and grows as a girl and as a person alongside her best friend, Scarlett, in the most unexpected and unusual ways while trying so hard to detach from her mom as she attempts to prove that she’s no longer mommy’s little girl.
★★★☆☆☆☆☆☆☆[3/10]DNF @ 30%My first Sarah Dessen book- I was like "nah" to the "ah" to the "no, no, no"! Your Halley is.. no!Your Scarlet is.. no! Your Macon is.. no! I need to let it go!I need to let it go!
In  Someone Like You  Scarlett's boyfriend, Micheal dies in a car accident and finds out that she is pregnant while her best friend, Halley is away at summer camp.
Halley and Macon's relationship starts to get sticky later in the book after Macon pressures Halley to do things she doesn't want to do.
After a car accident and Macon not even coming to the hospital to see her, Halley learns she deserves better than that.Dessen is a great writer because she doesn't make Scarlett's pregnancy picture perfect, she shows Scarlett's struggle throughout the nine months.
A 1998 take on teen pregnancy ladies and gentlemen!!! With all the girl hate and slut shaming you'd expect everywhere you wouldn't expect it.Anyway.This book was weird.Only 2 books to go in the 2018 Sarah Dessen Reread Extravaganza!! I am a superhero.Bottom line: If you are going to read a Sarah Dessen book, 1) yes do it and 2) DON'T PICK THIS ONE
Scarlett's vibrant reds and golds helped some but I was still waiting.A few days later, right before the funeral, Halley meets Macon, who was Michael's best friend.
They have third period gym together and Halley starts to really look forward to that bit of her day when she can see Macon and is disappointed on the days that he doesn't manage to make it to class.About that same time, Scarlett finds out that she is pregnant with Michael's baby.
I LOVED Since You've Been Gone (my second to last read before this one) and I continually was thinking "Wow, I liked that book better.
I love many of Sarah Dessen's books and bought this one five years ago because of that (back in the days when BookTube wasn't a thing and I had limited knowledge of other authors), but I never really felt the urge to pick this one up (hence the reason it was last on my TBR list).As for the book, I didn't really like or connect to any of the characters and Macon was my absolute least favorite.
That was the first oddity, leading me to assume this bizaare almost Camus-like work could not end well.Another thing was Halley's relationship with her mom.
I appreciated the distancing of their relationship as I feel that is a true to life portrayal of how teens shy away from parents mistaking them as withholders of independence rather than sources of guidance.There were some inconsistencies that bothered me - like, everyone has a cell phone yet no one seems able to use it when it counts.
And when Scarlett has her baby, do you REALLY think her mom would be off with some dude and have no way to be reached?
While Someone Like You is a likable, heart-warming story, it lacks the strong emotions and pitch-perfect writing of Dessen's later books.One thing I would have loved was if this book was written in the perspective of a different character, namely Cameron or Scarlet.
The story seems to revolve around Scarlet as opposed to Halley, so seeing her thoughts at certain points of the novel would have been interesting.
Cameron's character is also splendid - the outcast arriving at a new school who strikes up a somewhat relationship with a girl who is pregnant and carrying the baby of her deceased boyfriend.
Y, si bien, es una historia sobre el primer amor, también es una historia sobre la importancia de la amistad y la lealtad, un libro que toca temas delicados como el embarazo adolescente y la muerte inesperada sin incurrir en drama innecesario (aunque sí tiene su dosis de drama "necesario").La historia es simple: chica regresa del campamento de verano al enterarse de una noticia trágica (el novio de su mejor amiga, Scarlett, murió en un accidente de motocicleta), chica conoce a Macon, el amigo del novio de su mejor amiga (¿muy engorrosa la explicación?), chica se enamora de chico.
4.5 starsThis was my first ever Sarah Dessen book and it's always amazing to come back to that kind of nostalgic feeling.
Someone Like You was a pretty enjoyable book.
It did seem to feel like it was dragging throughout some parts of it..
Halley leaves the summer camp she is at so that she can be at Scarlett's side while she is dealing with everything being thrown at her.
God, I hated his character so much.Something drastic happens because Macon pressures Halley to do things throughout the book and then there's a car accident and Macon doesn't come to see her or anything.
Halley was annoying me throughout the book too.
EVEYRONE WAS ANNOYING ME AT ONE POINT.Overall, it was an okay book.
Sarah Dessen’s work is realistic, painfully so at times, but not particularly “edgy” or dark, for want of better words.
My point is that having read Dessen’s later work first, then backtracking, I was struck by rawness of ‘Someone Like You’ in comparison with say, ‘What Happened To Goodbye”.
Not because it pushes any particular boundaries and contains any shocking revelations, but just because it was so realistically rendered that I was squirming in my seat – something I haven’t done while reading a Dessen book.
Although this is not my favourite of her books, bravo to Dessen for choosing to portray a teen relationship so honestly and openly.
I went in this book thinking of the story to be completely different.
Then maybe the mother and Halley's relationship??I really couldn't figure that out, I just let that be and went with whatever way the story was structured and read it as a slice of life giving me a lot of lessons while at it.
I didn't really like the way Macon's character was developed, I really liked him in the beginning and I wanted Halley to get closure and also a relationship she deserves.
Anyway.I wish the book focused on one thing and the other things were rather in the background to add layers to the story.
Someone Like You  (still have not figured out the connection between the title and the story - help a girl out) is about the life of Halley and her best friend Scarlett.
While away at summer camp, Halley receives a phonecall from her childhood best friend Scarlett telling her that her boyfriend, Michael, was killed in a motorcycle accident.
This book follows the girls as they face love and loss, growth and courage, friendship and family.Sarah Dessen is probably one of the most iconic contemporary authors out there, but I feel like her books are more catered towards a ‘middle school’ audience.
3.5 starsNot my favorite Dessen book, but still great (obviously, because she's a fantastic writer)
I was pretty frustrated with the parent/child relationship in this book.
The girl's 16 and pregnant with a dead kids baby and we never really get to know her, which makes her whole situation seem like a plot device and angered me.
We sit and watch this girl fall 'in love' while ignoring these glaring problems with the guy and I don't think she'd be quite that naive.
I don't want to start jumping on the 'problematic' theme bandwagon here, and I know it wasn't supposed to look like a healthy relationship--but not a single relationship in this book was healthy.
I expected this book to be so much better...In the end, I gave this book 2 stars because I hated so many stuff that happened.
I finished this book hoping there will be a conclusion to everything, but the ending left me hung up.
If this book was written in Scarlet's POV then I think I would've liked it better because her story was much more important than Halley.
Dislikes:1) Halley.
2) I felt like Michael was a good guy, and that's why Scarlet might've liked him, but I didn't get why Haley liked Malcom.
It actually felt refreshing to read about a stereotypical high school romance for once, with no added elements to make it more "exciting."The whole plot was moving a bit fast; there's no time for the characters to mourn.
There were times in this section where I got very frustrated with Halley and Macon and their decisions, but I knew it was just a part of their overall growth.This section also had a few plot twists I definitely didn't see coming, which made the book all the more exciting.Side note: As a teenager currently learning to drive, I had to say this- YOU CAN'T GET YOUR DRIVERS LICENSE UNTIL 16 1/2, NOT 16!
General thoughts include my appreciation that it never got preachy about the teen pregnancy; my wish that the secondary characters, like that of Cameron, sweet, willing-to-help-the-pregnant-girl Cameron had been more fleshed out (Dessen has gotten better at this, to the point that the C2s are more interesting than the C1s); and the bravery—is that what it’s considered now?—to allow Halley to end up without a guy, stronger for not giving in when she wasn't ready, and developing into a better version of herself.
Even if it’s a good book like this one, it leaves you exhausted!
Rainbow Readathon: Violet.More like a 4.25☆ :)This book was so good! This is my first Sarah Dessen book, and I can tell I'll be reading more of her. I read this in one day, it was that interesting! I loved almost all the characters, even though sometime they made really -_- choices, I could understand where they coming from. And the friendship between Halley and Scarlett? GOALS. Seriously, "the world is a terrible place not to have a best friend".
Check out this and other reviews on my young adult book blog, Here's to Happy Endings! Actual Rating: 4.5 Stars Okay, so this is the first book by Sarah Dessen that I've read, despite the fact that I've been reading young adult books for like 15 years now and the sheer amount of books that I've torn through in that time is probably enough to go to the moon and back like seventeen times.But yes, this is my very first Sarah Dessen book, and I absolutely loved it. In fact, I loved it so much, I'm i
So Halley calls her mother, who is very displeased about making the trip to come and pick her up, and heads home to be there for the person she cares about most.Almost the end of summer, Halley comforts Scarlett as much as she can before school starts back up, the two of them spending afternoons together and trying to make the most of things, despite the depressing situation.
Halley finds herself in a sticky situation, she has to be there for Scarlett and doesn’t know how.
Everything about their friendship is different now, Scarlett’s pregnant and the fathers dead, Halley is changing, shes dating a guy whom she never thought she would end up with.
My least favorite character is Marion, Scarlett’s mother, she isnt there for Scarlett in the beginning, she doesn’t act like a mom torwards her.
When Scarlett needs her the most, shes not there, shes on dates with different guys.
This author wrote this book to tell anyone who reads it that a friendship can last through anything.
I thought this book was okay, but not the best from Sarah Dessen.
A bit dry and boring at parts, this is the story of two best friends, Haley and Scarlett, where Halley seems to lean unconditionally on Scarlett.
It is not until Scarlett's life becomes a tragedy that Halley begins to learn what it takes to be someone as strong as Scarlett.
Covering a romance with classmate, Macon Faulkner, and the struggles with the binds of family as Halley continually changes and evolves while her mother forces her back, this story was not as dynamic as I'd hoped.
someone like you was a really good book. this book is one i couldn't put down there was so much stuff to read about. i would have to say that this is one of the best books i've read by her so far.
And no one bothers to say that Michael might have not been such a good guy himself if you pay attention to the small hints throughout the book (first of all he was friends with Macon so he must have know him pretty well and agree with his actions, he never showed his true self like Halley mentions quite a few times, he did hide his relationship with Scarlet and then there’s the whole earrings thing that made me think Michael wasn’t so honest in his relationships) but since he is dead no one bothers to judge him.
And will her mother ever allow her to make her own mistakes?This was an okay YA contemporary romance/ coming of age story, but a couple of the characters annoyed me.Halley was an interesting character, and a good best friend to Scarlett.
I thought that Halley’s mother was really too-strict with her, and never allowed her to tell her side of the story which was really unfair, and I really wanted Halley to realise that Macon was not very nice to her, and really wasn’t trustworthy.The ending was okay, and I liked how things ended between Macon and Halley, but I would have liked to have known more about what happened with Scarlett and the baby, and whether Michaels family ever responded to Scarlett’s letter.Overall; an okay YA contemporary romance/ coming of age story.6.75 out of 10.
I really liked this book, but it didn't hold my interest. I normally read a book like this in a day, maybe two. it took me about 5 days to read it. It was typical high school, teenagers doing what they do. Kind of reminded me of the movie 'How To Deal'edit: just found out the book was made into that movie. wow.
3,5* Me gustó mucho y me parece bastante innovador para su época. Creo que con este sólo me faltan 9 libros para haberme leído todos los de la autora. Voy a seguir en eso...Reseña más en profundidad en mi video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aKR1j...
