https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/758153.Born_Free
I read this book ages ago and I really enjoyed reading it. I also loved the film where her love for animals came shining through. Truly exceptional story.
This book turned me into a blubbering, weeping mess. Amazing, sad and uplifting at the same time.  For more on this matter check out my other review-https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Because it isn't just about a lion named Elsa, it is about a companion, a friend and a loving creature who shared in the lives of Joy and George Adamson when they lived in Kenya.
Elsa was really very magical and unique, and after reading this book, having a lion around suddenly begins to sound much more enjoyable than a dog.
How lucky we are to be able to read about Elsa and appreciate a little slice of the African animal population through the eyes of two people who sincerely loved and understood these creatures better than most people could ever hope to.
I was confused at her reference to "beating" Elsa when she tracked a donkey, which was a purely natural instinct, and not three pages later, said that they never used force with her.
One thing I got a chuckle out of was when they returned to Elsa for a three day period several times, and when she got to know the signs they were preparing to leave, she turned her face away from them.
But, when I'm off to work, she knows - when I go to kiss her, she whips her face away and refuses to kiss me.
You saw the movie, you sang the song, you begged mother for the vinyl, and she bought you the book as a surprise. Elsa had all our hearts back then, and her was amazing and truly free in the end. It was the Feel Good story of the decade. so, I think it might be time to bring it back once again for the new generation. What better message to save the Earth?
I saw the movie Born Free as a child and loved it. I probably read the book along the way too but as usual don't remember. The story of Elsa and the Adamsons is still an amazing one of love and devotion between a wild animal and her 'pride', George and Joy Adamson. The descriptions of where and how they lived is really interesting as it's a way of life not many will ever experience
Елза, която стана легенда(Цялото ревю е тук: https://knijenpetar.wordpress.com/201...)Една по една започнаха да се появяват книгите от детството ми.
Тогава попаднах на Джой Адамсън и нейните книги за дивата природа и, разбира се, бях неудържимо привлечен от тези реални истории.
Все пак завръщането ми към дивата Кения ми донесе удовлетворение, което трудно намирам в много от прочетените книги.
Истории като тази събарят за кратко тези прегради и създават усещане за единение с природата, което изпитваме, когато изкачваме планина или се разхождаме по дивите пътища.
Ето и самата история…(Продължава в блога: https://knijenpetar.wordpress.com/201...)
This is the book the film was based upon, the story of Elsa the lioness, hand raised by a Senior Game Warden and his wife, Joy Adamson, and later released into the wild.
But what this book does offer is what a friend of mine called a "lost art:" The ability to write about an animal without treacly sentimentality but rather with sharp and insightful observations that make their personality evident (and in this case lovable) without a narcissistic focus on the writer and without an evident heavy-handed political agenda.
I love animals, and it would be a dream come true to bond with a wild animal like Joy and her husband George did. It was an easy read, and there were lots of wonderful photos. What a fabulous lion Elsa was - she learned to live with other wild lions, but at the same time, she was gentle and always careful around her human caretakers, who she seemed to love just as much as they loved her.
Behold, the Lion Queen
I read this when I was a child and remember loving it. Would love to read it again someday.
This is the inspiration, true story Elsa, a lioness, who is raised by the author Joy Adamson, and her husband George.
She is shot in self-defense, but they realize later with remorse that she had been trying to protect her young, three cubs who George brings back to camp.
Though Elsa’s sisters are sent to a zoo when they are still cubs, Elsa remains in Kenya with the intent of joining her sisters later.
When she is nearly a full grown lioness, George & Joy no longer have the heart to place Elsa in captivity; not when she has grown up in her native environment.
Can a domesticated lioness survive in the wild?
Bit of a hard one to review. I love Elsas story but not entirely agreeable with Joy and George, just because of some of the animals they killed for no reason to be honest. At times I felt like giving up on the book for this reason but I'm going to continue the trilogy and try reading Living Free to see how Elsas journey continues. I may even get a liking for Joy and Else you never know, watch this space xx
Ho un ricordo stupendo del telefilm tratto da questo libro...Allora ero una bambina, ma la vicenda di questa leonessa, di Joy e George che con cura allevarono questa cucciola mi ha emozionato nuovamente oggi, come lo fece allora.Per il grande rispetto e amore che avevano per Elsa e per la sua natura, riuscirono a rimetterla in libertà..""Per quanto ci fossimo preparati al distacco e sperassimo di poter cosí dare a Elsa un avvenire migliore di quello che avrebbe avuto in cattività, il momento della separazione effettiva era una cosa molto diversa."
Long before Hemingway, Dinesen, and Markham shared their Africa with me, I knew Elsa's Africa. This was a memoir I read in my youth, perhaps the first, and it remains with me to this day.Joy Adamson's story of returning an orphaned lion who had been raised as a pet to the wild is heartbreaking, heartwarming, and hopeful. It's also a peek at East Africa in the 1950s. All around, a good and emotional read.
Before this Elsa:ANDThat adorable Kiara:There was THIS Elsa. An orphaned lion cub, the weakest of the litter that grew up into a beautiful lioness named Elsa, who got involved in many adventures with her foster parents.Oh, my goodness, how did I forget this one!!!
I read this when I was young, and made me cry my eyes out. I still think of this book.
Лъвицата Елза още тича из саваните на Африка: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/l...Историята е добре позната, но все пак – едно семейство, Джой и Джордж Адамсън, което защитава дивите животни в Кения, приютява осиротяло лъвче, най-слабото от котилото си.
Джой проследява почти ден по ден как лъвчето се превръща в горда и красива лъвица на име Елза, която се забърква в много приключения със своите приемни “родители”.
Да се грижиш за лъвица не е никак лесна задача и има безброй дребни случки, които Адамсън проследява пунктуално – което всъщност ми досади, многобройните повтарящи се срещи с други животни и реакциите на Елза спрямо тях не се различават особено.Издателство Ваконhttp://knigolandia.info/book-review/l...
When the time inevitably came, Joy and George made the hard decision to release Elsa into the wild.
After finding a suitable location, they spent a lot of time teaching Elsa to hunt for herself.
Even after being in the wild on her own for several months, Elsa would still get very excited when George and Joy visited her, showing them much affection and wanting to play with them.
But she also grew more independent, and began to show signs of wanting them to leave her alone, and her transition from family pet to wild lioness was successful.
Elsa's story started the wild animal rights to live wild and free and ends in a very real legacy left by both Elsa and the Adamson's.Adamson's writing flows like a conversation between friends.
George brought the lion and Africa back into the life of Christian A Lion Called Christian: The True Story of the Remarkable Bond Between Two Friends and a Lion born in a pen and displayed at Harrod's until two men rescued Christian as a cub, kept him till he was too big and finally also returned him to live the life of freedom with the help of George Adamson's capable hands.
Born FreeBy Joy AdamsonReview by Graham WBorn Free is an amazing story, that is also true and is unlikely to happen to just anyone.
But Joy Adamson never had to do that she could almost always walk out onto her porch and let her pet lion Elsa suck her thumb.
I have lived in Africa for about 3 years and have never heard anything like it until reading this awe-inspiring book.Although she originally had three lions she gave the bigger two out into a zoo in London after they were old enough to care for themselves.
I'll start with what I liked about this book: the pictures.Now, I don't know what you're looking for in a book.
But to warn you, this book is mildly racist, scatterbrained, and boring at some parts.
I thought it would be interesting because it was about a lion...
I guess lions can be boring, too.My last issue with this book is when she beat Elsa for mauling the donkey and when she would say she "didn't like to kill animals." Whenever she said she didn't like killing animals, she would follow it up with some story of why they 'had' to kill an animal.

I cannot remember how many times I reread this book; it was many.
I also enjoyed Living Free and Forever Free although not quite as much, but it would have been impossible for me to not read those sequels as I would have been painfully curious about how the story continues.I’ve cried a lot each time I’ve read it because the book is so emotionally moving.
The story of Elsa the lioness and her humans and Kenya was completely engrossing.
I read it first when I was about 12 and it got me interested in Africa and conservation.
A captivating read.
Možná díky tomu, že je zima, jsem dostala chuť na četbu o černém kontinentu. A příběh lvice Elsy je vlastně hrozně dojemný (páč zvířátka, víme). V jednom kuse jsem googlila flóru i faunu safari, což všem čitatelům mohu jen doporučit. Afrika mne láká už dlouho, spaní v buši, hvězdné nebe, kůže Afričanů jemná jako papír, noční symfonie... Jo, zasáhla mne romantika a touha po dobrodružství.Tedy ani v nejmenším jsem netušila, že Joy Adamsonová byla Češka! Prý měla i poměrně pohnutý osud, takže se zkusím po něčem podívat.
This was a nice read. I enjoyed the story and the pictures of Elsa. The author starts the book off when she and her husband first find the lion cubs. She talks about their playfulness, shyness, and intelligence. I thought it was amazing how intelligent Elsa was. In many ways she was smarter than the typical canine. Elsa must learn how to hunt and survive on her own with only her human parents to teach her. There were many skills that she picked up from instinct alone. Again great book! This is what "Born Free" the movie is based on.
Великолепная история! Впечатлилась ей ещё в детстве и вот недавно перечитала. С такой увлечённостью, с такой любовью к животным и наблюдательностью написано, что остаться равнодушным невозможно.==========Я убеждена, что, помогая животным, мы помогаем себе. Если мы их уничтожим, будет нарушено равновесие в мире, частицу которого мы составляем.
The mastercheese for lion lovers. Grab the hankies. Freedom!http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=53KwUm...
Jsem to četla, když jsem byla pidi. Pohled mám tudíž možná trochu zkreslený, ale vím, že se mi to tenkrát šíleně líbilo. :D
Born Free: A Lioness of Two Worlds By Joy Adamson Review by NeveLions have never been at my peak of interest, but the story of Joy Adamson and Elsa the lioness certainly did when I first came across this book.
Joy is both the author and one of the main characters, and she goes off on tangents about loosely relevant topics, such as a safari she once went on with (Pati the rock hyrax) before she found Elsa.
Despite the unfortunate writing style, Born Free echoes the theme of an unbreakable mother-daughter bond, which is displayed through the relationship between Joy and Elsa.
