https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/395962.Kushiel_s_Chosen
I was waffling between 3 & 4 stars on this one, but since the second book in this series was a marked improvement for me on the first book, 4 stars it is.our intrepid heroine Phèdre - courtesan supreme with a very special talent for transmuting pain into pleasure - makes her debut redux as a titled Lady and so re-enters various schemes and plots at a very different level.
and it's not like there's much class warfare in either book anyway - the appeal of these books rest in the heavy-breathing erotic atmosphere combined with all sorts of courtly intrigue.which is kept front and center.
You would have thought that Countess Phèdre nó Delaunay would be satisfied with her new title, estates, and the love of the man she seems to love as well, the ex-warrior monk Joscelin, but the Chosen of Kushiel doesn't seem to be satisfied with kicking her heels in the genteel country society, so she decides to take the bate and go on a search for the treacherous and very alluring vileness Melisande Shahirizai , who escaped her imprisonment and death sentence.
This of course puts a big dent into the relationship she has with Joscelin and that comes to a complete halt when he decides to start studding with this alternative World's Christians, who actually read much more like the Hasidim Jews of our world.
Ysandre was one of my favourite characters in the latter part of this book: she's written as such a strong, strong character.The relationship between Joscelin and Phèdre was more painful than ever in this book, so I was very, very glad of the end.
I'm tempted to buy the Imriel books already, but I think I'll wait until they're all out in paperback -- painful as that will be.I seriously recommend this trilogy, if you don't mind a bit of BDSM sex woven into the plot (you can skip it, after all).
well, more.It was late last year that I finally got around to reading the second book in the series (prompted by a review copy of the new trade paperback edition), and I was finally ready to appreciate it.
More than that, it is an epic fantasy with the most profound of messages at its heart - "Love as thou wilt.” As powerful and original as I remember the first book being, the second revealed itself to be an even stronger read.
The taboo element is still there, and still permeates the series, but it's become an accent rather than the story's defining element.Originally reviewed at Beauty in Ruins
It’s what I read on the eight minute dog walking breaks, what I read when I snapped awake at 4:30 in the morning but just could not face studying more right then, what I read when I took a half-hour breather twelve-hours out from the end when the euphoria started setting in, it’s what I read on the train in to my exams.
But I barely noticed, because this book was pleasant in a white noise kind of way, and it was long so I didn’t have to face finding something else to read, and it just tra-la-la’ed along for 600 pages whether I was paying attention or not.
To put it in perspective: upon escaping from an inescapable island prison (and nearly drowning), Phèdre soon rebuilds her power base, befriending in the process not one but two other nations, and returns to Venice—sorry, La Serenissima—to stop the assassination of her Queen.What saves the book, and Phèdre, is the difficulty level at which Carey has set her game.
By choosing it to do this way, Carey divides the book into two parts that are almost self-contained narratives in themselves, with introduction, rising action, climax, and denouement.In the first half of Kushiel's Chosen, we're re-introduced to Phèdre, Terre d'Ange, and being a Servant of Namaah.
The second in the Kushiel's legacy series, continues on exactly where the first novel left off.Phedre no Delaunay, now the comtesse de Montreve, comfortably living in her country home with Joscelin and her three chevaliers, and spending most of her time learning Habiru, in the hopes of discovering the key to freeing Hyacinth from the yeshuite curse.
Not telling who of course, you'll have to read it yourself and suffer the same as I did!Some of the aspects that interest me most about this series is the mythology and the magic.

Vanquished is the onslaught of brutal Viking-esque hordes; this time the peril is pretty faces & nobility in the heart of Terre d'Ange, & that duplicity spurs her decision to resume the chess game with Melisande.Phedre is that rare breed in fantasy -- a strong female character who isn't a warrior, or even royalty.
So many heroines these days are ashamed of having sexual thoughts, let alone sleeping with men who aren't the primary hero.
Why is larger-than-life such a dirty concept these days?!
The written world needs more Phedres, dammit.
When I wrote my first review, I wondered for a while if this was really fantasy - or rather, said that up until one particular thing happened, there was nothing that made this particularly fantasy in terms of magic. I'm not sure what genre non-magical but certainly not Earth-based historical fiction would fall under.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
In this novel, the action shifts from Terre d'Ange to Carey's version of Venice (La Serenissima) so Phedre is free to display her snobbery and chauvinism to a grating degree (no one else is as beautiful as Angelines, no other place is as lovely, cultured, fashionable or interesting, no other language is as beautiful, yadda, yadda, yadda.
Really?)Lastly, Carey overuses certain words and phrases that drive me crazy: Examples: "well and so", "mayhap" and worst of all, "somewhat" when she means "something" which is "somewhat" that makes me have to mentally edit almost every sentence!And yet, go figure, I still thoroughly enjoyed this trilogy (and loved Kushiel's Avatar).
-Phèdre's pms was terrible- Joscelin is still a cutie patootie- Melisande is the best villain everI liked it less than Kushiel's Dart.
The stories couldn't be more different (even though I think Kvothe would take an interest in Phèdre :P) but they do have in common a beautiful prose and a first person point of view, since it's the main character that tells their own story.
I felt like I got to see more of Phèdre and Joscelin's character development, but at the same time I missed Hyacinthe's humour and the comical relief he brought.
Nevertheless for the second time  Jacqueline Carey  swept me away so much that I could not put anything less than five stars.Αυτό το δεύτερο βιβλίο της σειράς ακολουθεί σε γενικές γραμμές το μοτίβο του πρώτου.
Παρά όλες αυτές τις ομοιότητες πιστεύω ότι θα βρίσκονται και αρκετές διαφορές, τολμώ, μάλιστα, να πω ότι σε αυτό το δεύτερο βιβλίο γινόμαστε μάρτυρες μία μιας αναβάθμισης καθώς η συγγραφέας γίνεται πιο τολμηρή - και δεν αναφέρομαι στις ερωτικές σκηνές που γίνονται λίγο πιο...
επικίνδυνες - σε όλους τους τομείς προσφέροντας μας κάτι πραγματικά επικό.Αυτό, όμως, ευτυχώς για εμάς δεν αλλάζει καθόλου είναι η καταπληκτική γραφή της Jacqueline Carey που παραμένει όμορφη και συγκινητική.
I was almost scared to read this, because I was just sure it wouldn't be able to measure up to Kushiel's Dart.
I probably won't be able to wait even a week to start the third one.So often, books in a series have different vibes, and the feelings you get while reading them are so varied that its hard to consider them connected.
I loved that about Dart, and loved it in this one also.Its also a great mark of her writing abilities that she can display such a wide emotional range in these characters.
I had a hard time at the beginning personally, but I think that is due to the fact that I hated how Phedre and Joscelin tortured each other for no good reason.
Seriously, by the end, they realized no reason was good enough either - especially with Phedre's penchant for getting into trouble.Anyway, the story itself is fantastic in its detail and pacing.
The loss of any of those characters is crushing, and I think I'll be very emotional to not have Fortun and Remy in the next installment (I couldn't stand them not being in the second half of this book).
After 1st Re-Read:In many ways this is the "hardest" for me to re-read because I find the first half just a bit tedious with all the stregazza politics, but the 2nd half more than makes up for it!Original Review:I read this in a day. And it leaves me wondering how in the world I thought her first book was average. I am already a few hundred pages into #3, and am very glad that she writes very long books, and that there are 4 awaiting me.
It's also fun to watch the other major characters grow: somehow this is accomplished in the background with elegance and grace -- no clunky exposition to catch you up to "Oh, now this person knows about her feelings and this one has killed someone in cold blood so he's a warrior now too."I will say briefly that the fight Phedré and Joscelin have, and the playing out of its consequences, is SO much more satisfying than the idiocy between Bella and Edward in the second Twilight book, and a pretty clear illustration of what ACTUAL fantasy/romance can deliver (and we're talking the fantasy genre where there is a romance here, not checkout-aisle texts).
Your sequel really should always be better due to your readers knowing the characters and what the world is about so you, the writer, can spend more time on the rest of your story.
Throw in pirates, blood debts, death, and reunion and you have a decent romance novel with hints of fantasy.
Carey better put some effort in the next book for him.
(the new character was good but that is really only one new effort) The plot was smaller as was the payout.
The characters are still good and there is still much to be done.
3.5 stars. This is almost as good as the first book, with the same lovely overwrought prose that I am finding quite absorbing.Unsatisfied with her triumph of the previous novel, our heroine travels to a foreign land seeking a traitor who escaped justice. It’s interesting to have a strong female character who isn’t a warrior, although making her a sexually submissive masochist is going rather far in the other direction.I’m not quite convinced by Melisande’s supernatural power over Phèdre, and there’s perhaps a little repetition in the cycle of Phèdre being betrayed, captured and rescued, but I liked the story.
I finished this one really fast (for me at least) and delighted at some of the new developments. With that said, it wasn't quite up to the first in terms of quality. I found it lacking a bit, but the world building is still stunning and it's nice to read a fantasy that focuses more on the court intrigue and not the battles.
[Mild non-specific spoilers for Kushiel's Dart below]Top 5 Reasons I Loved Kushiel's Chosen1)The first thing I see when I open the book is a map and a cast of characters sorted by location.
Just to swords and various other sharp things.3) In Terre d'Ange they worship Eula (and his companions), who proclaimed "Love as thou wilt." All types of sex between consenting adults are welcomed.
We are D'Angeline, and we revere such things."4) Phèdre has lived a life of extremes.
Son of a bitch, Carey is magnificent. Truly anything and everything you want in a complete, low fantasy story, down to an epic, epic duel at the end. She's 2 for 2 in immensely satisfying endings.The only complaints I have are fairly minor: Carey falls into the trap of having her characters repeat what happened in the previous book (presumably for the reader's benefit), and it happened often enough to be tiresome. Still somewhere in the middle regarding the prose; mostly beautiful, but I tend to get annoyed at seeing things like "she arrived presently" rather than "she arrived soon."
Until you have started reading this books you will not understand their depth.
Herein, then, is a story of love so deep and story so strong that once you have started reading you cannot stop.This is my husband's copy.
I tried to start reading the first book and found that the names of people and countries were hard for me to follow.
But my husband, who recommended these books to me, read then non-stop without the audio and loved them.
Second astonishing book in the trilogy (or quintology?) of Kushiel's legacy featuring the anguisette Phedre, now the close confident of the newly minted Queen.Phedre is a courtesan's daughter, born to one of the Houses of Night-Blooming Flowers as a result of an illicit union between a merchant's son and one of the adepts (read: highly trained, highly paid indentured courtesans).
This fleck, or dart, it transpires, is the mark of an anguisette, someone who by birth is made to endure and enjoy pain.
He's supposedly exploring his faith, but it seems like a device to remove him whenever it would be more interesting for Phedre to be in danger.
And at the end of the story Jocelin goes through a poorly justified character transformation.
The main conflicts seem like rehashed versions of the problems from the first book as Phedre and Jocelin try to figure out their relationship.
It's all stuff we've read before.There is adventure and danger and suspense, and the story's not bad.
It just doesn't feel as satisfying as the first book because I was expecting so much more.(This is excerpted from my old Amazon review.)
The first in the series introduced Phedre no Delauney as an anguisette, the red mote in her eye indicating that she's been chosen by Kushiel to follow a path of pain and pleasure.
In this, the court intrigue continues as traitor to the crown, Melisande Shahrizai escapes from prison.
Suspecting another traitor within the court of Queen Ysandre de la Courcey of having assisted in the escape, Phedre, now a Countess having inherited Delauney's Montreve title and estate, and her merry band of ex-sailors and her Cassile protector, Joscelin, once again embark on a secret quest to find answers, find Melisande and to save the Queen.
As with Kushiel's Dart, this book suffers from Omniscient Bad Guy syndrome in the form of Melisande.
This book is more intense than Dart, partly because the whole book can be devoted to the main plot and the author doesn't have to spend pages introducing the main characters.
The OBG overshadowed the whole thing, so that's what I remember of the book, not the characterizations or how well the plot went together.
I did not read Kushiel's Avatar thanks to what this book was.
The whole first trilogy is one I've read at least 3 or 4 times!
Much more than a mere fantasy novel, these books explore human nature, passion, deceit, politics, and of course, love.
Set in medieval pseudo-Europe (more specifically France, aka in the book Terre D'Ange), this book is rich in detail, full of different cultures and languages, and has VERY vivid characters.
I've given it to numerous people with one warning, it DOES contain some explicit scenes as the narrator/main character is a courtesan!...
I find it hard to consider these books fantasy because they are so non-fantastical.
Read them, 'nuff said.
did i start a reread of the series solely because i was in venice a couple weeks ago and i wanted to visit fantasy venice again? don't @ me
4 Stars To me this is the weakest book in the series, but when it comes to Kushiel that means it's still exellent.
It's just a little more slow paced than its' counterparts.
Still this series is my favorite fantasy series sharing the spot with Harry Potter and possibly A Song of Ice and Fire.
It has everything you need to make you come back again and again and again.
Characterisation is probably Carey's strongest suit and it makes you care enough to come back for more just to experience it again.
I just can't recommend this series enough.
