https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67144.Conjugal_Love
The difference or the specialty of the book lies in in its narration filled with deep penetrating insights into sexuality, conjugal love, social/moral conventions vs instinct, writing, and the act of writing a novel and a critical review of any novel.The Plot:It is about a married couple (Silvio and Leda) and about the love between the spouses - CONJUGAL LOVEL.
Silvio, when writing a novel undergoes so many tough periods and the final product and the way he cherishes the moment is very much autobiographical.
أهلاً بكم في عالم مورافيا... عالم مليء بالحب والخيانة والشبق والشهوة وغيرها من الغراميات(view spoiler)[ الحب الزوجي... وفي طبعة اخرى (عذاب الحب): تحكي قصة كاتب مغرور وسخيف وفوق كلّ ذلك ديوث لا يقوى على مواجهة زوجته الجميلة وحلاقه (انطونيو) الذي يضاجع زوجته ويستماع بذلك، ولالأشد من ذلك أن الأخ لا يزال يكتب روايته ويتخيل جمال زوجته ويتغنى بعشقه لها!... ما هذا الهراء يا مورافيا؟؟ انا لا اقوى على هذا الكمّ المستفحل من السخافة في كتاب واحد (hide spoiler)]يذكر ان الكاتب قد ارفق في الكتاب قصة حياة بلزاك ومايكل انجلو، وكنّ سير رائعة جداً وكتبت بصياغة ادبية لا بأس بها
De plus, fort intéressant, dans un mélange de texte et méta-texte le héros fait la critique de son œuvre, sans hésiter à pointer tous ses défauts avec un détachement impitoyable :Il apparaît donc que l’auteur s’est exprimé dans son livre tel qu’il était : un homme privé de sens créateur, velléitaire, intentionnel, stérile.
Not in the slightest pornographic, like one might expect from Moravia.The sensuality is more subdued and not in the main focus of this story.It is a quite clever story about a wanna-be writer who is a privileged and arrogant a**hole, self-centered and pretentious.
His wife decides to live her life like she wants to as well.And it this includes sexual adventures with an unattractive, but willing barber, she goes for it.There was a slightly bitter humor in the comparison of the behaviour his wife shows him to that of an indulgent mother.What was in my eyes very well done, was the slow revelation of the true power balance between those two.
The usual Moravia intelligence, and insight into the foibles of human relationships. Perhaps only the length lessens the power of this story compared to his longer works. It is a simpler story than the likes of The Conformist as well, of course. Simpler and less believable in some aspects of the plot.
This book is a real gem in the Moravia line up. I am writing a book too, and Moravia really gets at the subtle details that can drive you nuts while writing. The self-criticism, the disbelief of flattery and the whole sex issue...well, you have to read it to really get it!
Finally... a masterpiece! How have I missed this author? This is one gorgeous novella that I'm itching to reread.
This novel was published in 1951.
It cannot be random just as Moravia’s 1934 is concerned with the effect Hitler’s coming to power has on the German character Beatrice/Trudi in that novel.Mussolini’s Fascist Italy censored Moravia.
To avoid Fascist censorship, Moravia wrote mainly in the surrealist and allegoric styles.And finally, one month earlier, September 24-29, 1937, Mussolini visited Hitler, and came back deciding the Nazis were the best force to throw in with.Good Newsreel.https://www.ushmm.org/wlc/en/media_fi...For the pampered bourgeois dilettante Silvio, October 27, 1937 is the day his dreams of conjugal love and literary greatness are shattered by the conquest of the proletariat barber, Antonio.
Čini mi se da su ovome najviše doprinjeli homoseksualni parovi, jer ako dvije žene i dva muškarca mogu da budu zajedno, oni obavljaju funkcije i zadatke i osobine oba pola, dakle, nije nužan "drugi pol" da nas upotpuni.)Glavni muški lik je iz ove perspektive pomalo šovinsta, ali takav da mu se to ne može nimalo zamjeriti, jer on je otvorenog pogleda na svijet, samo opšte znanje o nekim pitanjima je u to vrijeme prosto bilo ograničeno...Silvio i Leda su bogati, rasterećeni svega, i ne rade ništa.
Instinct versus rațiune în iubire și în artă, cum vrem mai mereu ce nu avem.
O Moravia, O your so goddamn good writing !
(Il resto dei racconti, proprio perché erano pieni di trama, non mi sono piaciuti più di tanto...).Ancora una volta soddisfatta e contenta di averlo letto.
"Al primo sguardo che le lanciai di dietro mi spaventai perché improvvisamente mi sembrò che anche lei, come le parole del manoscritto, non fosse che un segno nello spazio.
Ma mi consolai un poco pensando che se così era, se non soltanto ciò che avevo scritto ma anche mia moglie che sapevo di amare, mi sembrava incomprensibile, questo senso di assurdità allora non dipendeva dalla qualità del mio manoscritto, bensì da me stesso".
Following on the heels of a book I really liked, it didn't grab me much, and I probably would have put it down except that it is so short I decided I might as well finish it.
Newly married and very much in love with his wife, he nonetheless decides that he cannot write the novel of his dreams and have a sex life at the same time, so they decide to forego sex until the novel is written.
In the end, Silvio learns from his wife the key to writing and the key to conjugal love--not without some hard knocks.
Silvio is having writer's block and in order to cure his creative impotence, he sacrifices sex.
The very book he is writing is-- Conjugal Love.
This self-reflexivity gave this book an extra jolt of pleasure for me and in this way, reminded me of Fellini's 8 1/2.
As usual, Moravia creates a psychologically insightful, shocking story about disillusionment with his wonderful analogies: writing a story and having sex are similar acts and in this novel, the energy he exerts while having sex leaves him empty when trying to write his manuscript.
He starts to resemble a machine when chaste: as he churns out new pages, his obsessive devotion to work makes him selfish and alienates his wife.
Genius work.
I can't imagine more unpleasant characters!
Our protagonist is a potential writer, but too obsessed with his wife to accomplish much.
He concentrates on her appearance, her clothes, her expression.
And then he says she is not very intelligent.
Great wealth offers him the opportunity to have a barber come daily to his vacation home in Tuscany to shave him, but he isn't going anywhere.
The novel takes place in 1937, but there is no mention of changes in Italy that reflect the upcoming war.
Moravia ties the novel up with a few plot twists.
Moravia is considered an important Italian writer, but I was unimpressed.
حسناً لقد انتهيت منها ظننتها رواية واحدة لكنها تحتوي على رواية بعنوان الحب الزوجيشعرت بالملل بدايتها ولم تشدني أبداًهو يحب زوجته الجميلة، هو كاتب فاشل، هو يريد أن يصبح كاتباً مشهوراً، زوجته تخونه مع حلاقه، هو يحب زوجته برغم عيوبها!"طب وأنا مالي"القصة الثانية كانت بعنوانالحبيب التعسلم أجد فيها ما يفيدالقصة الثالثة العاهر العجوزفيها حكمة جيدة مع أنها مكررةمقالة رابعة عن الملهاة الإنسانية للفرنسي الكبير بلزاكأحببتها جداً وخصوصاً بأنه سبق لي وقرأت العديد من روايات بلزاك وعلى علم بشخصياته الشهيرةمقالة خامسة عن ميكيل أنجلو النحات والمبدع الكبيراستمتعت بها جداً
كثيرا ما يكون السخط بدايه اعجاب وهذ ما ابدته الزوجه تجاه الحلاق كانت تنبهه زوجها ان يحميها من نفسها ولكنه لم يفهم ولكن الزوج ادرك ذلك بعد فوات الاوانبس طالما الموضوع in puplic and with no feeling so what !!
رواية صغيرة , بسرد مورافيا السلس و الخبيث , و الاطمئنان الأخير الذي لا يوفره سوى التصديق للكذب المعتاد على النفس ... لتجاوز الارتباك أو الخيانة اللامعتادة , لكنّها خفيفة , ليست كالسأم مثلاً ..
Silvio needs both, perhaps?And I would realize that in reality I had not loved or written so much as wished to love and to write.There's always something false and humiliating in a success amongst one's own family, amongst people whose affection makes them indulgent and partial: a mother, a sister, a wife are always ready to recognize in us the genius that others obstinately deny us, but at the same time their praises do not satisfy us, and we sometimes feel them to be more bitter than frank condemnationObsessions either close up like abscesses which can find no outlet and slowly mature until their final, terrible outburst, or else, in more healthy persons, they find, sooner or later, some adequate means of eliminationIn the end I said to myself that there was something mysterious about him; but not more so than in the case of many people of the working class, to whom wealthier people like to attribute thoughts and cares that match their position and then find that they are engrossed by the same things that matter to everybodyI wanted everything to go on undisturbed and unchanged as long as I was working.
L'amore coniugale è un racconto che analizza attentamente lo stato d'animo di chi cerca di definire se stesso e il suo intero mondo, o forse più correttamente la sua visione di tale universo, attraverso la scrittura, dovendo scindere il suo amore per tale attività con l'amore per la passione amata, accorgendosi che talvolta lo sforzo naturale che ci porta a curare una delle nostre passioni toglier l'energia per poter continuare l'altra e allora viene il momento delle scelte.
Un racconto in cui si definisce bene il rapporto coniugale spesso basato su un mutuo accordo più che su sentimenti inarrestabili, come se fossimo attratti dall'accordo delle anime senza fare lo sforzo di trovare quella passione che ci tormenta ma ci soddisfa.
"Ci sono libri imperfettissimi, mal costruiti, farraginosi, disordinati, ma vivi, che leggiamo e leggeremo sempre; e ci sono libri invece perfetti in ogni particolare, ben architettati, ben composti, ordinati e levigati ma morti che gettiamo via con tutta la loro perfezione di cui non sappiamo che fare." (p. 75)
"lightness in the nape of the neck"
Conjugal Love by Alberto Moravia is a short, intense, somewhat claustrophobic novel about a wealthy man who wants to be a writer and who wants his new wife, a good bit earthier and more idealistic than him, to serve as his muse.
The Catholic catechism (Moravia was writing in Catholic Italy) suggests conjugal love is the height of spiritual and emotional union.
Add in the way conjugal is used in the prison context: conjugal privileges in certain prision scenarios allow a woman, usually, to come meet her incarcerated man for sex in a trailer on the prison grounds.Silvio's idealistic phoniness is always going to undermine him if he tries to hold onto Leda.
Dwells deep in the psyche of its characters and intricately explores man-woman relationship. This is a great-read.
In his villa in Tuscany in October 1937, Silvio — a rich dilettante who dreams of becoming a famous writer — decides that his most important story, perhaps his only story, is his intense, unlimited love for his wife Leda.
In the end, though Silvio discovers her adventure, he finds it easier to deny it, and thus commits this book-length declaration of conjugal love which may deceive only himself.
The novel is an amusing intrigue, as much for what it says about the hesitations and delusions of a beginning writer as for its erotic escapade.
Conjugal Love takes place in the romantic and beautiful countryside of Tuscany, a place where passions are always aflame and love is consummated eternally, an ideal place for a writer and his young wife to pass away the days dreaming sweet dreams together.The protagonist, Silvio, a wealthy man with literary ambitions, seeks solitude in his surroundings in the country to finish a novel.
After some effort, when he fails to produce anything worthy, his confidence wanes and so does his time for love-making with his wife, Leda.
One day, Leda confesses to Silvio that the local barber, employed by her husband, made indecent advances on her.
Un scriitor mai putin inzestrat nu s-ar fi achitat de aceasta dificila sarcina, insa Moravia este un povestitor de prima mina.” (Time)Volumul Iubitul nefericit (1943) reuneste sapte povestiri, scrise cu eleganta si fluiditate.
Fie ca este vorba despre un pusti a carui imaginatie infierbintata il face sa intre in conflict cu o pisica, fie ca itele povestii dau la iveala motive mai tulburatoare, precum incompatibilitatea erotica ce duce la disperare continua, muta, mai mult, la nepotrivirea individului cu insasi matca vietii sale, Moravia surprinde cu limpezime poetica momente de cumpana, de formare, din existenta personajelor.
Moravia has been one of my favorite writers since I first read him at 22.
But unlike many European writers of ideas, he is also very good at the stuff we value (overvalue?) in American fiction: scene, description, dialogue.
This one, fortunately, lies closer to the masterpiece end of the spectrum.
After not reading any of his books for a year or two, this was a welcome reminder that I have more of his work to read and that I still enjoy his writing as much as I did more than a decade ago.
The man wants to be loved and to write; the woman, once married, wants a husband who is happy, occupied, and in love with her.
Moravia deftly renders the nuances of love going right and wrong beneath a larger world of failure and irrelevance, not literary irrelevance, as the husband fears, but historical irrelevance and the sheltered, indulgent life of the couple is on life support without their awareness.
The political world makes no shadow of an appearance but the year is 1937 and doom awaits them even as love flails away at imperfect happiness.
Non c'è traccia della disperazione dell'Ortis nonostante il tema lo richiami prepotentemente, non c'è traccia di disperazioni forti in genere, quando certo le condizioni permetterebbero loro di esprimersi più che legittimamente.
E' il ritratto composto di un ambiente sterile di creatività e di gioia, dove l'inattività illude il protagonista di provare alcune sensazioni e ad un nulla crede di vederle crescere o mutare, quando in realtà, per la sua tragedia personale, non prova nulla se non un tenero, timido moto di curiosità rassegnata.
"Ci vorrà molto tempo", dice la fine del romanzo.
Ma sarà come se questo romanzo non fosse mai esistito.
