https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7046495-lover-mine
Some things are destined to be-It just takes us a couple of triesto get there.Lover Mine is the eighth book in the Black Dagger Brotherhood series.
John Matthew, aka Darius reincarnated, is undoubtedly one of the most popular characters in the series.
But there’s much more than meets the eye to Xhex and John is drawn to her like a moth to a flame.To me, the great thing about John and Xhex’s relationship is that it has been running for a couple of books.
John and Xhex got a truly wonderful love story which turned out to be of epic proportions due to Darius’ involvement.
The WARDen made me fall in love with JM all over again.I was so glad that the WARDen took a big, huge chance with crafting a heroine like Xhex.
It's like JR Ward took my wish list for Xhex and JM's story and wrote this book based on it.
Even though I'd love this book enough to light up a solar system just based on the JM/Xhex story, the other aspects also made it a wonderful read for me.
And Blay will get some love and affection like he needs, although his heart will always belong to Qhuinn.
5 Well of Soul Stars As she waited for Lash to come back to her, her mind drifted to the male she tried never to think of. Especially if Lash was around. It was unclear how much her captor could get into her head, but she didn't want to take chances. If the bastard got an itch that that mute soldier was her well-of-soul, as her people called it, he would use that against her... and John Matthew.-XhexFirst read 2014Reread 4/5/2017SpoilersOMG John Matthew and Xhex....... God I fucking loved them!
I was really looking forward to John and Xhex's story as I felt really invested in them.
As John and Xhex's story unfolded I was a total wreck.
J.R. Ward is amazing in the way she can write these epic love stories that touch so many people.
One of the things I loved the most about John Matthew was even though he was totally kick ass, he had this vulnerable side.
I know J.R. Ward said she plans to bringing Muhrder back and that is fine but he better keep his ass away from my John's Xhex.
Well, frankly I had a problem from the first book but I've already reviewed that one.My big problem is in the characters and the gender roles they embody.
Now, there's been a great deal of criticism over J.R. Ward's treatment of female characters in these books.
My challenge to J.R. Ward is not to create a female protagonist who embodies positive gender roles but to create a male protagonist that is still masculine and sexy despite the fact that he is not a muscleman who walked out of the caveman era.
"As she stood beside John Matthew, and watched his huge body crumple down by the bed, the organ that beat behind her sternum shattered like a mirror.Nothing but shards.She was utterly and completely ruined as he cradled that pillow like it was a newborn, and in this moment of his utter despair, she would have done anything to ease his pain: Even though she had no idea why he felt the way he so clearly did, the reasons were unimportant.His suffering was paramount."  Amazing! This book is very e
Half-vampire, half-sympath, Xhex was always forced to hide her other, bad side in fear of deportation to the sympath colony.She is a trained assassin, her body is her weapon, and is used to taking care of herself.The humans captured Xhex a few decades ago and did horrible tests on her, which resulted in her phobia of hospitals and doctors.So even though Lash had done terrible things to her, she had survived worse, and is willing to fight him however long it takes.After she gets out, revenge is the only thing on her mind, and she knows she must be the one to kill Lash, even though John seems determined enough.She can't believe he has feelings for her, and she doesn't understand why, but in the end, it doesn't even matter because she knows she won't be able to make it after her revenge is done, she has lost the will to live.
I didn’t think it was possible, but I’m more in love with the Black Dagger Brotherhood’s world and the Brothers themselves than I was before.
I suppose that eventually we’ll find out why he’s such a bastard to Blay most of the time, so rather than hold a grudge, I’ll wait for his story when, at last, I’ll come to love him.
Well, I love how Xhex doesn’t need John Matthew’s words to know what he’s thinking or feeling.
I think she’s going to be such a fantastic addition to the story.
5*** John Mathews' is MINE Stars    “Some things are destined to be -- it just takes us a couple of triesto get there.” JM    If you are following The Black Dagger Brotherhood series, by now you already know all the characters that we have so deeply fallen in love with since the very beginning. However, if you have not?! Go read them!!! Ward has an amazing way to pull you into a story, bring all your emotions, anxiety, and gives you an amazing roller coaster ride full of suspense and an adventur
LOVER MINE is the story of John Mathews aka Tehrror and Xhex aka Xhexania and is book #8th on this series.
In a world of Vampires, Sympaths (they can sense emotions and control minds), Lessers (humans that were killed by the evil Omega, he removed their hearts and converted them to soulless evil creatures to work for him) and of course the Humans.
He was a warrior who at some point in the series fell in love with Xhex and there was just no going back for him.
Lots of shit happened, lots of fighting and action with the Vampires and Lessers thought this book.
All of this awesomeness has been wrapped up with Wards unique style of writing, complete with product placements, rap music, unique street language, multiple f-bombs and a whole new batch of cool Wardisms I can’t wait to start using, you feel me.The series is brought full circle within this book with loose ends cleverly tied together and resolutions brought to story threads we’ve had growing and brewing since the beginning.
In the end Ward leaves us smiling with contentment, with new characters emerging and events opening up for future stories that I can’t wait to discover.
“I miss you.
I miss you so fucking bad it hurts, but I don't know how to find you even though you're right in front of me.” Xhex was kidnapped and John lost his mind, he didn't know how he could find her.
In Lover Mine, We'll see the long distance for John to save his first and only love.
John Matthew, as you know that he reborn with Darius' soul, he has no memory of what happened before this life, so he lives his life as a new one and falls in love again.
That's a complex and interesting story
Xhex was kidnapped and John lost his mind, he didn't know how he could find her.
In Lover Mine, We'll see the long distance for John to save his first and only love.
John Matthew, as you know that he reborn with Darius' soul, he has no memory of what happened before this life, so he lives his life as a new one and falls in love again.
John's feelings towards Xhex are so deep and touching.
The development of this character is visibly good, I've have known John since Rhage's book and I'm not disapointed by his story at all.
Qhuin you got so much on my freaking nerves.As much as I love you-you deserved every single pain that Blay unwitingly caused you.IDIOT!!You are messing around with every single girl in front of his eyes and when he settles down you get jealous??And when you have the opportunity to fix everything you walk away?My poor Blay , you deserve to be happy but not with Saxton.I simply dont like him.He gives me so many negative vibes.One of my favorite moments in this book was the one between Zsadist and John“Or, God, maybe this was just life.
5 LOVER MINE STARS. "You're not half the male you could be because of what was done to you. You're twice what anyone else is because you survived." Everything about 'Lover Mine' ~ The prologue, beginning, middle and end is nothing short of breathtaking. I felt like I had been given a glimpse into a sacred secret or historical story telling, and once again I applaud the author for a fantastic continuation of what is fast becoming my favourite of all series. Each book so far has claimed five easy
Both these characters have lessons to learn about themselves and each other, 'Lover Mine' captures the duo making choices In order to build the bridge to happiness with each other, but with both of their destiny's lying at the hands of the war of the lesser's and their own turbulent pasts will they be able to find find their own True love ending?Everything about this instalment of the brotherhood was nothing short of amazing, again the author involves so much into her storytelling, and although John Matthew and Xhex's relationship was very much in the forefront of the book I was also interested to learn more about Payne, Tohrment, Qhuinn and Blay all characters that I can't wait to read about.This series has blown me away, it's a ten star collection and I'm always more than ready for the next book to come along.5 HUGE STARS.BEST BUDDY READ EVER ...
John Matthew and Xhex "I'm glad you and Xhex have found each other. It makes cosmic sense, it truly does."John shoved the keys in his pocket to free up his hand. We're not together.The smile that briefly showed on the guy's face seemed ancient."Yeah, you are. You two are meant to be together." John Matthew has the most complicated storyline in BDB. By far. The truth is that nobody really knows who is John Matthew – not even John himself.Let’s start from the beginning:DARIUSDarius is definitely t
John Matthew and Xhex
It makes cosmic sense, it truly does."John shoved the keys in his pocket to free up his hand.
The truth is that nobody really knows who is John Matthew – not even John himself.Let’s start from the beginning:DARIUSDarius is definitely the most fundamental character in the series.
He has also played a huge part during the birth of Xhex (as the best friend of Tohr), but this will be exploited more in book Lover Reborn when we learn the story of Autumn(aka No'One).Anyway, I have started talking about John Matthew in the beginning.
Well, John is Darius.
4  stars – Vampire/Paranormal RomanceOkay...It goes without saying that I’m a total hussy for the Brothers, that the BDB series is my favorite, and that the ‘WARD’en is brilliant, and I totally expected this to be another no-brainer 5-star read. But unfortunately, it juuust didn’t quite get there for me (shocking...I know!), mainly since I felt a little bit cheated in the romance department due to all the Lash/Lesser distraction and because there was just so much filler. I mean, Lash’s evil mani
I also felt like the flashback sub-plot with Darius and Tohr was a bit disruptive to the overall flow and pace of the story, but at least it tied in really well at the end.
I just wish there had been more time devoted to their relationship and romance because it was so complicated, touching, volatile yet tender, passionate, heart-wrenching, and blistering hot!By far, my favorite aspect of Lover Mine was the explosive sexual tension and volatile emotional conflict between Qhuinn and Blaylock...YOWZA!
So, although this wasn’t my favorite or a perfect 5-star read, the BDB series still kicks major ass!
So on with the review...As we left Lover Avenged Xhex, John Matthew, Rehv and the Brothers were battling the sympaths and Lash up north in the sympath colony.
And it looks like there's a lot of story left for this couple, and I can't wait to see where it takes us.Besides the main storyline of JM and Xhex and their plan to destroy Lash and their growing feelings for one another, Lover Mine contains some tasty side plots.
Second re-read: 11.07.2017 As you all know; I love Qhuinn. Which is why I  only  re-read his and Blay's POVs. Which I did the last time as well. I just can't get enough of them two. I mean, J.R. Ward writes that pain they both feel, specially Qhuinn, so damn brilliantly, that I always feel that damn pain in my chest. I just want my babies happy.   “Blay.”“Yeah?”“You take care of yourself.”Now Blay’s voice was hoarse to the point of cracking. “Yeah. You, too.”Because of course, “take care of you
As you all know; I love Qhuinn.
re-read his and Blay's POVs. Which I did the last time as well.
Though I cannot really consider this a re-read considering I only re-read Blay and Qhuinn POVs. I love those two.
Quick basic facts:Genre: - (Adult) Paranormal RomanceSeries: - Series, Book Eight Love triangle?
- (view spoiler)[No (speaking of main couple).
- (view spoiler)[No (speaking of main couple).
- (view spoiler)[Yes, for now (speaking of main couple).
- QhuinnWould I read more by this author/or of series?
- Yes.Would I recommend this book/series?
- Yes.Will I read this again in the future?
Seeing his and Xhex's relationship develop is just heartbreaking and the ending of this book really made me feel sad....when will something good happen in his life????I felt his desolation, his pain, his sense of being alone....this was a sad read for me.
I always believed that he and Xhex were meant to be together....call it fate, destiny....but they HAVE to be with each other.I was glad that he had Qhuinn & Blay in his life...he needs comfort and love ...something he has never experienced before.Okay, enough...I want JM & Xhex together....the two finding love together, never having it ever in their lives.
Another beautiful, emotional, and wonderful Black Dagger Brotherhood novel!!!  “Some things are destined to be -- it just takes us a couple of tries to get there.” ♥   We have our main man of the book- John Matthew John Matthew has been through a lot. His journey the past seven books has been difficult, yet amazing. I have been waiting and waiting for his book, and it didn’t disappoint, you feel me???We meet John Matthew (view spoiler)[Darius reincarnate (hide spoiler)] as a pre-trans, scrawny
I have been waiting and waiting for his book, and it didn’t disappoint, you feel me???We meet John Matthew (view spoiler)[Darius reincarnate (hide spoiler)] as a pre-trans, scrawny mute guy.
John has had feelings for Xhex for a while now.
I loved how the ‘main focus’ of this book was on John Matthew and Xhex.
John has always had strong feelings for Xhex...
And I just loved when Xhex started to realize her feelings for John.
Knew also that all it would take was one fuck and he was never going to leave the guy.
(hide spoiler)] Just throwing that out there :D LOVE THESE BOOKS!!!!!
But when choices were taken from her, she must learn to adapt in order to survive.I've been looking forward to this book since John was first introduced in the series.
I'm sure John's past and how he overcame it would touch anyone's heart.
I have to admit I never liked Xhex when she first appeared in the series.
From the ending it looks like there's still unfinished business from the past, so I'm looking forward to see which direction the next book will go.Standalone Books in the series:Must be read in order
I was beginning to lose heart the further I went in the Black Dagger Brotherhood series because the of charm these books had began to fade for me.
This one had two:♦A couple in search of ghost in a particular bed & breakfast.♦ Darius & Tohr in the past working together.I kept wondering how these two story lines were going to tie into the main love story between JM & Xhex and by the end of the book it all worked together.
Nicknamed "Hollywood." Lover Eternal (#2) {Rhage & Mary}Zsadist: has a twin, Phury.
Lover Unbound (#5) {Vishous & Jane}Phury: Zsadist's twin brother and loyal to his brother.
Lover Enshrined (#6) {Phury & Cormia}Rehvenge: brother-in-law to Zsadist.
But trauma will change you and Xhex had her cake and all, and wouldn't you know, I started to like the Sympath.
Whenever one of them felt like putting in an appearance in the books' real estate, I felt myself grinning so hard the sides of my mouth caressed my ears, you feel me?
But almost as much as I love extra sharp cheddar cheese, I love Blay, Quinn, and Saxton.
Like the good ship Titanic, I was doomed from the second time I picked up one of her books.
My sweet John Matthew finally gets his own book - and the result was romance, heartbreak, action, suspense... and a dash destiny...  The essential truth of life, he was coming to realize, wasn't romantic and took only two words to label: Shit. Happens.But the thing was, you kept going. You kept your friends and your family and your mate as safe as you were able. And you kept fighting even after you were knocked down.   I have a tendency to become overly-attached to fictional characters; John Mat
The lost, scrawny, scared orphan managed to secure a place in my heart and it's been amazing to watch his story progress.All of the characters seem destined to hit rock-bottom right before they're given their own book.
In a series which has become hit-or-miss with its female characters, I was hugely impressed with Xhex!
J.R. Ward likes to weave multiple story-lines together, but never has that been as beautifully accomplished as in Lover Mine.The side-stories and flashbacks coalesced in a way which was both seamless and satisfying.John's connection to Darius was explored through the pages of the Brother's diary - and included insight into multiple characters of the series including Tohr and Wrath - as well as a few others which were a surprise right up until the reveal.BLAYLOCK & QHUINN
We have come a long way from Wrath, Rhage, Zsadist, Butch, Vishous( like to see him naked), Phury, Rehvenge and now John Mathew.
I am gonna stick to revenge and two people falling in love, cus these two have come a very long way and have some growing up to do.
Obstacles to overcome, lessers to kill, smack talking to do, hot and heavy sex to have, pretty simple nuh.QUINN&BLAY- Lets not pretend like you don’t love them and want them naked preferably with each other.
I loved this book the Warden never disappoints she writes these vamps just so bloody good.
This book has a lot going on…We have the fight with the lessers…not my favorite part…The ghost hunters…what??Back story from Darius…relevant??Qhuinn and Blay…you are killing me already!Xhev and John…finally!!So how do I feel about this one?Well…I definitely liked it better then the last few books, and I really enjoyed some of the side stories.
When I first found out John Matthew’s love interest was Xhex I was pretty disappointed.
I loved how these two just got each other.
Now Qhuinn and Blay…I can’t believe I have to wait 2 more books because this story is killing me!
I think Ward was trying to portray her as a tough girl but she came off as trying to be too much of a man in those scenes.I liked Xhex and JM together but I was a bit disappointed in the actual romance.
The first love scene squicked me out a bit because Xhex had just been through such a horrible time that I had trouble thinking she would enjoy it.
But overall, I was happy with the ending and enjoyed the final scenes.I could have done without ALL of the Lash parts.
I did like the old time Darius parts, I enjoyed seeing Thor when he was young.
In Xhex's words John Matthew ❤ her Well-of-Soul as her people called it.
Totally over-the-line, no-going-back, no-even-dead-would-he-part kind of shit  John Matthew !!
Hard core swoon !!!Meet my John Matthew : My XhexShe's the epitome of BAD ASS The pace of this book was fast, action-packed, and wow....
My heart was in full swoon.
I don't know about you but gorgeous vampires powering together against evil is ~ continuous holy shit moments of never-ending swoon ~  YOU FEEL ME???John Matthews unspoken words - melted my heart.
I'd hoped for so much more for John's story, and instead got a hot mess that was dragged down once again by so much product placement and so many damn kitchen sinks that were thrown in there.
The writing is choppy and all over the place with side stories everywhere, they made my head spin.Do I believe that John and Xhex will last as a couple?
For me, the only couple in this series to have the romance of the ages was Tohr and Wellsie and Ward did a number on her.
He'd wanted to be owned. He'd wanted someone to say, You're mine.  I loved the structure, the impressive encounter of past and present, and as the characters’ history repeats itself. Of course you already know from the previous books that John is the reincarnation of Darius, but there are stunning surprises in Lover Mine. ”I'm glad you and Xhex have found each other. It makes cosmic sense, it truly does.” JohnThere is no need to characterize John as Ward does the job perfectly. As a reader, yo
He'd wanted to be owned.
He'd wanted someone to say, You're mine.
Of course you already know from the previous books that John is the reincarnation of Darius, but there are stunning surprises in Lover Mine.
JohnThere is no need to characterize John as Ward does the job perfectly.
I enjoyed the incredible tension between them, the push and pull moments, Qhuinn’s ambiguous emotions and suffering.My heart still aches for Thor, and I’m relieved that John finally understands his loss as a man, not only as a son.Two storylines distracted me: one of them is Layla’s, the other one is Murdher’s with Gregg and Holly.
Both were boring and unnecessary.Not a surprise that Payne’s book is perfectly prepared.
John and Xhex are officially my favorite couple and this is up there with my favorite books in the series (although on reflection Lover Avenged retains the top spot for the overall story).
There were a lot of interesting developments - and while I'm not sure how I feel about all of them, it definitely left me anxious for Payne's story.
It was definitely an emotional read.
Not surprisingly, Xhex and John brought me to tears on more than one occasion, and probably not surprisingly either, so did Qhuinn and Blay.
4.5/5 stars “The truth was...he was in love with her. Totally over-the-line, no-going-back, not-even-dead-would-he-part kind of shit.”  Oh man!! Xhex and John are AMAZING!! They have been the most interesting characters in the last couple of books, and their story was everything that I could have hoped for and more! There were so many emotional and beautiful moments in this book!! As always, I am held completely captive by these books and I think about them even when I'm not reading one. I can't
They have been the most interesting characters in the last couple of books, and their story was everything that I could have hoped for and more!
The tension and extreme angst between John and Xhex has built up over the last couple of books and this was the explosion!
My heart would hurt for Xhex, then for john and then for the epic love that they shared.
I have a feeling that I'm going to really enjoy their book because I already love them so much.
I love that there is more than just one thing going on, but does their have to be so many side stories and perspectives.
Lash was a big bully before he went over to the dark side and his mission is to make John Matthew, as well as John's bodyguard, Qhuinn and his friend Blaylock suffer.
He will walk alongside Xhex and into battle where they will finish off Lash for good or die trying.There is a great turn of events in Lover Mine that many Ward fans will stand up and cheer for.
First, we have a great love story between John Matthew and Xhex.
Blaylock is so far gone over Qhuinn, even more so that John was ever with Xhex.
