https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4695.The_Rabbi
Even though The Rabbi focuses on a way of life that is less familiar to me, that earthiness becomes too realistic and depressing - and even boring - in a setting that is too close to current day for my comfort.
Contemporary here is the 1960s, but it feels very much like the type of contemporary that I read in school and ran away from as fast as I could once reading it was no longer required.I will continue to pursue Gordon's other historical work, but I'll be steering clear of anything set in the 20th Century or later.
The link with his grandfather and some months study is not enough to explain why he suddenly decides to become a Rabbi.
Moreover, I know things have changed, but I doubt that Jews belonging to a Reform synagogue would be put off by a rabbi's being married to a convert - as presented in the book.
How can a Jew, and a Rabbi at that (even a Reform Rabbi) be so disconnected emotionally from the Holocaust?
So the book is a nice read, but is disappointing in terms of developing any Jewish themes.
The Rabbi was Gordon's first book.
It is the story of Michael Kind, a rabbi who was raised in the NY / NJ area in the 1920s-1940s.
Michael meets, falls in love with and marries a minister's daughter who converts to Judaism.
The story is told from Rabbi Kind's present time (in the 1960s) back to his childhood, then through the years as a teen, college-aged young man, and as a rabbi, married and with children.
I love Noah Gordon but I do not think The Rabbi is as good as the others that I have read.
That being said, I enjoyed this book and recommend Gordon to anyone who loves a good storyteller.
I loved Gordon's 11th century story (through Europe to an Arab medical school in Ispahan, Persia) where The Physician studies under the immortal physician Avicenna. But his first novel, The Rabi, the story of Michael Kind, a young rabbi who falls in love with the daughter of a Protestant minister was boring. I can't understand how The Rabbi was on the The New York Times bestseller list for 26 weeks - or maybe I can imagine 'cause it's an epic of Judaism in America.
Ein gutes Buch über einen Rabbi anfangs/mitte 20.Jahrhunderts. Einblicke über das Judentum erhält man zwar viel besser in Noah Gordons „Der Medicus“, aber der Werdegang des Rabbis, seine Begegnungen, Konfrontationen sowie die Gründung einer Familie mit einer Christin werden, ohne aufkommende Längen in der Geschichte, stets unterhaltsam und interessant erzählt.
Relato intimista que tiene por base la vida de un rabino que no ha alcanzado casi éxito en su ministerio. A pesar de todo, él es feliz. Muy bonita, aunque me pilla lejos el personaje. Hay partes emotivas y ola lectura es agradable, pero no es lo mejor de Gordon.
I think I read somewhere that this is Noah Gordon's first book, written as he made a decision to pursue writing as a career.
I loved The Last Jew. Reading The Rabbi was a shock, in comparison.
What I liked about The Rabbi is that I think Gordon captures the realities faced rather well, and if his main character is shallow in his attitudes and observations, especially of women, it is not uncharacteristic of the attitudes of his generation.
It might be that I find this book uncomfortable because it was uncomfortably close to the truth.
There's the story that a biographer could observe or find out about via interviewing family or those who consider him their Rabbi.
What pushed it to 5 stars was his private thoughts, emotions, and how he and his wife viewed the various placements he accepted.
What happens to both the Rabbi and the wife when she is viewed as an obstacle to his advancement?
What are considered less desirable placements and is that really true.
The family involves 4 generation beginning with the Rabbi's Othodox grandfather, his garment manufacturing father, the Rabbi and his son who is at the age the Rabbi's story begins wondering about girls and not knowing his future direction.
It seems that Michael was predisposed from early life to become a rabbi.
This novel is a well-written and evolved story of a very human person who led a life more influential than he himself thought.
Relative success and relative "failure" are the marks of Michael's life.
He faces his share of challenges and proceeds to keep on keeping on.
The characters, especially the rabbi, are well fleshed out.
The book keeps one reading.
Recommended for those who might appreciate a human rabbi rather than a theological exegesis.
The dynamics of congregational life ring true.
A very pleasant, rewarding read that follows the maturation of a rabbi and a marriage.
The main conflict in the story is the rabbi grappling with who he is in a world that he is part of and yet isn't.
He's a rabbi in a gentile world; he's a Reform rabbi that always doesn't see eye to eye with his congregations.
A parallel conflict flows with the story of Leslie, his wife who has converted from Christianity to Judaism and endures the label of "shickseh." While the story focuses on Rabbi Kind, I think Leslie's part is as interesting and I was wishing for more from Leslie's perspective.
The marriage is a moving story of how love changes.
Great novel. Some academic friends recommended The Physician, and voila, I fell in love with with the stories of Mr Gordon. I have read Shaman, Matters of Choice, The Last Jew, and now The Rabbi in a space of a few months.I chose to rate it 5 for a good story that depicts the struggles of man and having the will to stay positive and move on with life and cherish what we have.
Great reading especially if you're interested in Jewish faith.AAs a person who grew up in a very religious family I really could get into the book.I liked to temple building proces how to raise funds.Very much the same for churches of all faith.I really recommend this book to all serious readers.
a little boring.
Didn't buy it. While the troubles of the couple may be real, I don't think the relationship or motivations were realistic.
Muy bueno, como el resto de libros de Noah Gordon. SI te gustó El médico, te gustará.
In a word, boring. I found it tedious and difficult to get through.
El Rabino es un libro que encontré estas vacaciones, en la casa rural en la que pasé quince días con mi familia.
Para mí lo más interesante de la obra ha sido conocer muchos términos referentes al judaísmo, y su explicación en un glosario que aparece al final del libro.El Rabino se lee con facilidad aunque tiene pocos momentos que te enganchen a la trama.
Simplemente es la narración de la vida de Michael Kind, un rabino norteamericano del siglo XX.
Rabbi Michael Kind is married to a woman who converted to Judaism in order to marry him.
The story alternates between the present (1964) and the past as Michael grew up, began ministry, met Leslie and they travelled together around the country.
Because of the way it alternated between present and past, I would get a sense of the "now" and then the background that molded and shaped it.
I wonder if aspects would have been written differently if the setting was more recent.
Would the civil rights aspects of this be different for the intervening years?
This book is written in the voice of Michael Kind, a rabbi.
The book begins in 1964 when he is dealing with a major crisis in his life.
However he flashes back in the story to his childhood, the decision to become a rabbi, falling in love with the daughter of a minister, the birth of his children and challenges within the parishes he serves.
In many ways the story is about her struggles as well as Michael's as they attempt to live an unorthodox life for their time.
Noah Gordon's first novel.
About a man's journey (told through several layers of flashbacks, plus some other character viewpoints) to becoming a Rabbi and finding the congregation that fits him.
The characters interested me less than the journey.
The different styles of Judaism and of synagogue life.
Each and every one of his congregations was completely different from the other, despite all of them technically being Reform.
Gordon's books are hard to find.
My guess is that readers with a connection to Liberal Judaism will get more out of the book than the average reader.
es la historia de vida de un rabino, desde si niñez , escuchando las voces de su abuelo, hasta que ser consolida en una sinagoga con su esposa e hijos.trata temas interesantes, pero no profundiza en ellos y al cambio de hoja deja atrás un problema para iniciar otro.
Además hay muchos momentos que pudieron ayudar a conocer la cultura judía y el autor supone que conozco los ritos y tradiciones judías o similarmente remite a un glosario.la parte que más me gusto es una discusión teológica con su maestro, donde pasa casi mágicamente de dudar de Dios hasta elegir ser rabino.creó que fui víctima nuevamente de las ofertas de kindle, el libro fue muy barato pero no lo recomendaría mucho.
This book was very well written, but I didn't like it nearly as much as the last Noah Gordon book I read, The Last Jew. I kept wondering throughout my reading it why it was a story worth telling.
The whole book is merely the story of a rabbi from when he first decides to become a rabbi, through his life.
It was a nice story, but again, I couldn't figure out why a fictional rabbi's life deserved an entire book.
A pesar de la mejorable traducción de Adolfo Martín, es un libro que no puede faltar en la colección del buen "gordonista".
Porque es la primera de sus nueve obras; porque se vislumbra aquí la línea narrativa que le llevarán a la cumbre (inalcanzable) de "El Médico"; y porque, lejos de ser su mejor trabajo, este libro es de todos modos una prosa 100% Gordon.
A saber: cero ampulosidad y una escritura que deja el protagonismo a los eventos.
Very good read (fiction) about the life of somewhat itinerant rabbi starting his career and his adult family life. Lots of stream of consciousness on various moral and religious topics, with Yiddish words thrown in, usually with some interpretation. Perhaps written for those who have some grounding in the workings of Judaism but certainly can be enjoyed by all who have had any angst during his/her career or bumps in the road of life! Lots of family relationship issues also.
"E embora haja muita coisa feia no mundo, há alturas em que é maravilhoso estar-se vivo. Basta beber água quando se está com muita sede, ou ver alguma coisa bela, qualquer coisa que seja bela. Os bons momentos compensam os maus.""[...] diz o padre ao rabi: Olha lá, tua devias era provar presunto, é delicioso; e o rabi diz ao padre: Olha lá, e tu devias era provar raparigas, são melhores do que presunto..."
If it looks like trash, it is trash. This had potential - rabbi falls for Christian woman - but since none of the conflicts were actually featured in the story I am not sure what this author had in mind. I will say, though, that the traveling salesman rabbi life was captured quite nicely and I got a kick out of his wife saying at every new home they moved into - oh, I can see us staying here forever! Ha.
I discovered Noah Gordon a few months ago. I get a big thrill when I find a new-to-me historical fiction author, and I really liked the first 2 volumes of his Physician trilogy. This was his first novel and although it was not as smooth as those which followed it was an engaging story. As with the others I have read, the characters were the finest element. They are fully developed and inspired my empathy.
Not bad but sort of slow in the beginning. It is a story of a true life and it really pulls you into the struggles of the character. I must say it tugged at my heart strings towards the end because of my mom recently passing away. It really is about life; not perfect but with all the ups and downs.
I read this book many years ago when it first came out and loved it. UNfortunately, I have been unable to read other than ebooks since then and cannot afford too many. Recently read The Jerusalem Diamong which was offered as a special on Amazon and loved it. Looking for more of his ebooks now but only for a really low price.
I picked up this book at a random gift shop in Europe mainly because it was in English, seriously cheap and I was in search of a weekend read.I found it pretty irritating, the characters were way too black and white, the actions in the book were too extreme and exaggerated. I wouldn't recommend it.
