https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/885505.The_Tale_of_Johnny_Town_Mouse
It has become a new year tradition for me: start the year with a Beatrix Potter tale. This year, the tale is about Johnny Town-Mouse and Timmy-Willie the country mouse who visit each other's home, concluding they like their home best, the town for Johnny and the country for Timmy-Willie.One of the most beautiful Potter picture books. Delightful. One place suits one person, another place suits another person. For my part, I refer to live in the country, like Timmy Willie....
One place suits one person, another place suits another person.  The whole story is summed up in this quote.Illustrations were very good. And the writing was also good and straight forward. This story was a very delightful read for me. (^_^) But I would highly recommend this to children. February 14, 2017
I don't know which came first, this or 'Town Mouse, Country Mouse', regardless, this is a similar story. Beatrix is losing her eyesight by this time it says. I think some of these pictures are my favorite. It is so beautiful. I even like the story. Johnny Town-Mouse and his friends are so aristocratic. I like that he is willing to go to the country and see where Willie lives. The kids seemed to like this story a lot too. "Again, again" was the chorus. This is worth a read.
i to prefer to live in the country,like timmy willie.
A country mouse and city mouse story.
The story is of Johnny Town-Mouse and Timmy Willie, the country mouse.
Timmy Willie accidentally reaches the town and is heartily welcomed by Johnny and his entourage.
In the town the customs, food and even the sounds are all different.
Timmy decides to return for good and after some time is visited by Johnny.
Walking with his hand in his tail to not to get it all muddy.Just like the predicament of Timmy Willie, Johnny has to leave for his city too.
Potter ends the story with these lines 
For my part I prefer to live in the country, like Timmy Willie."
Really cute and smart mini tale, I enjoyed reading it. Over-cute and beautiful draws :) Recommending! ---Наистина сладка и поучителна мини история, наслаждавах се на четенето. Изключително сладки и красиви илюстрации :) Препоръчвам!
"One place suits one person; another place suits another person. For my part, I prefer to live in the country, like Timmy Willie." Me too, Beatrix, me too.
One place suits one person, another place suits another person.
Underdeveloped plot. The main theme - that different people like living in different places, and that’s okay - needed to be teased out with more tension. Little Timmy Willie needed a closer run in with a cat, or Johnny town mouse a cow. The end came - no less than 46 pages after the beginning - and we were left wondering what even happened.
A cute little classic tale akin to "City Mouse, Country Mouse".
I have arranged my takeaway thoughts into a haiku:"There's no catch-all sketch,Each has their own preferencesThat make their dream home."
One place suits one person, another place suits another person.
Sweet story of what it's like to live in town vs. country. I really liked how Potter drew the mice so differently (I should know, I catch both kids all the time in my walls!) Also, I'm with Timmy, the city was too noisey and scary, plus, lots of mice deaths...
I love how the very pace of the story feels more action packed when Timmy is in town and then much more slower when he gets safely home to his country garden again.
For my part I prefer to live in the country, like Timmy Willie"The dedication to this one reads "to Aesop in the shadows" because the tale was adapted from the Aesop Fable of "the town mouse and the country mouse".
Some might wonder why it was not called "the tale of Timmy Willie" because it actually features him more prominently then Johnny.
After hitching a ride from the countryside to the town, accidentally, country mouse Timmy Willie lives with town mice until he can return home--where he later returns the favor by hosting Johnny Town-Mouse at his place.
Equally interesting is the narrator's interruption to tell readers that they prefer the countryside life too.
Readers seeking a return to the original narrative of the series should be satisfied with this late addition to the series.
Readers seeking a story about the limitations of looking for greener pastures might be amused by this story of enjoying where you live.
Read this to my 2 year old daughter. The story is simple, but charming. Well written, but compelling. I enjoyed it, and my daughter seemed to enjoy looking at the illustrations as I pointed out the different characters. I will read this again to her when she is old enough to understand the story better, as I think the descriptive story-telling can inspire imagination, while also spelling out a simple moral lesson.
I must admit, at the age of 66, this is the first Beatrix Potter book I have ever read and I found it delightful. The illustrations were adorable and the story appropriate for readers of all ages. I am looking forward to finding more of her stories and reading them all. Highly recommended!
This is the first picture book of Beatrix Potter's that I've found actually boring. The illustrations are beautiful as usual, but the story itself is one that's been told so many times that it has absolutely lost all interest for me.
This story reminded me of Town mouse and Country mouse. Great bed time read with my boy.
Beatrix Potter's version of the city mouse and the country mouse. A little long for preschool storytimes, but good for one-on-one reads.
A wonderful book.
“One place suits on person, another place suits another person.”
2.5 stars???🤔
302 - 2017
I too prefer living in the country page 32 is my favourite
The Town and the City 💔
A sick day in bed. Read every Beatrix Potter I could find.
Sadly, while she maintains her artistic style and general writing quality, this story has been done over so many times that it winds up being a very boring tale for most readers.
But, again, so many people have done this story that you might find a teacher or babysitter has already told a version to your child before you even had a chance to read this one.Honestly, this is one of the few Potter stories I'd advise you skip.
It's not BAD, but it's just not WORTH it.While you can buy Potter stories individually, I have to advocate for getting a complete or near-complete collection of her stories.
Timmy Willie adalah seekor tikus desa yang terbawa ke kota.
Dia bertemu para tikus kota, salah satunya Johnny, yang menjamunya dengan baik.
Sayangnya, tak ada tempat seindah rumah, Timmy tidak betah dan memutuskan pulang ke desa.
Lama berselang, Johnny melakukan kunjungan balik, dan sekali lagi, tak ada tempat seindah rumah.Desa dan kota adalah dua tempat yang sangat berbeda, dengan kelebihan dan kekurangannya masing-masing.
For my part I prefer to live in the country, like Timmy Willie."Ceritanya dibawakan dengan cantik, secantik ilustrasi yang menghiasinya.
Tetapi saya merasa Timmy Willie--oleh karena porsi penceritaan dan perannya lebih besar--lebih cocok diberi tempat kehormatan dalam judul ketimbang Johnny yang tampaknya sekadar pelengkap.
