https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/187124.Running_with_the_Demon
I just don't do well with stuff like that.But once you scraped off all the useless information, this was a fairly neat take on the tale of the Battle Between Good and Evil.The young girl in this coming of age story has a power inside of her that can be used to save the world...or to destroy it!
*dum, dum, duuuum*That part of the book was good stuff.The other problem I had (besides all the boring wah, wah, wah descriptions) was that all the adults in her life kept her in the dark about all the things she needed to know.
Η αναμέτρηση με τον δαίμονα θα μπορούσε να θεωρηθεί μυθιστόρημα αστικής φαντασίας,με μια θετική φρίκη να διατρέχει την πλοκή και την εξέλιξη.Ξεκάθαρα όμως, ανήκει σε άλλο είδος φαντασίας.
Παρουσιάζει έναν κόσμο σαν τον δικό μας,αλλά, ο μαγικά δαιμονικός κόσμος της αναμέτρησης ανάμεσα στο καλό και το κακό, δεν μπορεί να γίνει αντιληπτός απο κοινούς θνητούς.
Αν όμως την αγγίξει ο Δαίμονας του Κενού θα κυριαρχήσει το Κακό που θα βουλιάξει τον πλανήτη στο έρεβος της αβύσσου.
Υπάρχει επίσης ένα τέρας της αποκάλυψης εγκλωβισμένο σε μια αρχαία βελανιδιά και κάποια τέρατα που απορροφούν τα κακά συναισθήματα και διαιωνίζονται.
Listening to it was pretty torturous, though.The idea of the 'Word & Void', opposites, good & evil is obvious & overdone, but it looked as if Brooks had opened up some possibilities.
Unfortunately, he fumbled in the execution.The demon was a major dumb ass, too evil & stupid to be true when it came to Nest.
If there is any logic there, it completely escaped me.To cap it all off, we get to the final confrontation & (view spoiler)[ no one has told Nest that touching the demon will change her - something he could have done at the church - but luckily she doesn't.
After reading a pretentious spewing of literary "greatness", I needed something that I could actually enjoy.
And enjoy it I did, more than I expected to.I've been reading Brooks for years.
When I was ten years old, I read his only book at the time, The Sword of Shannara.
That is, I'd enjoy the book and feel normal again, reading a book with enjoyable story and not something that some haughty author is trying to impress me with.
But this book exceeded my expectations.It was like Elfstones, only set in the modern world.
They are bound by Hopewell.
Terry Brooks is one of my favorite fantasy authors, but I'll admit it, I had not plan to read this or any of the other books in The Word and The Void series.
But then he had to go and link this series to Shannara, my gateway drug into the realm of fantasy.
If you think you know fantasy, if you think it's all wizards and swords, you're wrong.
What I want to do is go right out and read all of the other books in this series and then jump headfirst into the Genesis of Shannara.
Fourteen year-old, Nest Freemark, lives in Hopewell with her grandparents, Bob and Evelyn Freemark, and little does she know, that the battle between the Word and Void hinges on her.
A Knight of the Word, named John Ross, has tracked a Demon of the Void to Hopewell, and Nest is caught in the middle.
Running With The Demon invokes the idea that evil is constantly changing, and evolving, constantly attacking the moral fiber in the world, while opposing it, good is perpetually there, unchanging, but always attempting to stand firm against the ever changing threat of evil.
I'm writing this review in light of the tragedy of the attacks in the German Christmas market, so the theme of good vs.
Amist her adolescence, Nest must help Jon Ross, as well as her sylvan friend, stop the demon from setting off this little town, which will result in overall chaos and darkness in the world.MARKETING APPEAL: The genre appeals to some readers especially with the success of Neil Gaiman's works.
As far as Brook fans go, this would appeal to dark urban fantasy types; it's well written and deals with good vs evil at an epic level in a small urban town.
I was emphatic to many of the Shannara characters, especially those in ELFSTONES, but RUNNING pushed it even further for Nest and her grandfather.
And Terry Brooks, the mastermind behind the internationally best-selling fantasy The Sword of Shannara series, begins a new brilliantly realized saga that will culminate in the myth of Shannara.(I’m writing this 17 years after the book’s publication; and, though not apparent at the time, it’s connection to the Shannara series has since been established.
I remember starting this book in 2000 but gave up because I didn’t take to this modern teenager and her sylvan best friend--a fairy/sprite creature made of twigs and leaves--and it seemed far-flung from the first three Shannara books I had read and loved.
I mainly pushed through just so I wouldn't miss any background necessary for the books that come after - and I kept hoping that something exciting / meaningful / magical would actually happen in this series.
This is simply too far away from the world of Shannara for me.
It was like a bleak history lesson that I just had to get through, and I couldn't even find the connection.The next trilogy (Genesis of Shannara) is a little better.
I imagine you'd only slog through that many books to get back to Shannara if you're truly hopeful in spirit, but I am generally an optimist.
First and most importantly, any book written by Terry Brooks is worth reading.
What I believe is most incredible about his novels is that the majority of them are interlinked.
Although his numerously connected fantasy trilogies seem completely in another world than to his few modern 21st century novels, it took me over a year to realise that the fantasies were in fact sequels.
That discovery made Terry Brooks my favourite author.
The fact that he was able to integrate fantasy, reality, technology, and magic in a realistic and fictionally logical way is incredible.
Sorry about this book (and the two that follow it) I couldn't escape the feeling that they could have been so much better. A good idea with what I felt was poor execution.I note that after the trilogy he started a series based on the failure of his protaginists in this series...ouch.
There are so many pointless parts of this book that the plot never seems to begin.
With this book, as soon as there is a single passage related to the plot, it quickly bounces back to irrelevant flashbacks, repetitive descriptions of how hot summer is (I got it, mate.
In the 60% of the book that I read, I estimate that there have been less than 10 paragraphs advancing the plot.
At least 30% of the book is flashbacks, or dreams of the past.
Excellent writing, but I'd expect no less from an English major with a track record like Terry's. Great story. Nice, tight pacing. Really real characters in really real places having some really unreal situations.Modern-day paranormal thriller with a dash of Shannara because... Terry Brooks. Would make a good movie. Looking forward to more in this series.
almost tactile experience it could be reading a book by Terry Brooks, who describes things in such detail, in such living color, that it is like you are THERE.When Nest saves Bennett Scott from the Feeders one night in the park, it seems pretty normal - she's been a Caretaker of the park ever since she was old enough to understand that she carried the magic inside her to do so - the 5th of her family's women in a line to do so - and was paired with Pick, a Sylvan, who only those with the magic can see.
Of course, the boundaries of all of the speculative genres can be a bit fuzzy around the edges --and most readers will be more interested in whether or not the book is a good, rewarding read than in what pigeon-hole to classify it.
:-) As to the former question, IMO, the answer is a decided "yes."Although Brooks uses some Christian terminology here (John Ross, for instance, is a "Knight of the Word"), the operating worldview of the book is much more akin to Zoroastrian dualism with its eternal conflict between a more-or-less evenly matched good and evil.
A war is coming and the feeders are the precursors of death.
Nest is very compassionate and feels it is her duty to help others so she teams up with John Ross, a Knight of the Word to defeat the demon who is terrorizing her town.
This is the first book in The Word and the Void series and it is wonderfully creative and imaginative.
I will definitely be getting my hands on A Knight of the Word to continue the adventures of John Ross and Nest Freemark.
I've read a lot of Terry Brooks' books, including all of the Shannara books, and unfortunately, I was a little disappointed in this book, Running with the Demon.
Here, Mr. Brooks departs from his usual pure fantasy genre to tell a story that mixes present day life with fantasy elements.
I didnt like the story very much.
I also prefer reading fantasy novels that are set in mythical worlds.
Unfortunately, his attempt to blend a fantasy world with real life was not so successful here.
Read any of the Harry Potter books for an amazing melding of real and fantasy life.
A very good fantasy novel about the fight between good and evil. Terry Brooks has created some wonderful characters and an exciting plot.
I've been slowly but surely making my way through all of Terry Brooks' novels, and I have to say that this is my favorite, thus far.
I love his Shannara and Landover series, but for some reason this delightful urban fantasy really captured my interest hard!
I loved all the chracters, the setting was beautiful and described in detail (I've visited my cousin in the Midwest before so it was really great to read about it) and the twists and turns in the storyline really kept me guessing until the very end.
I am very much looking forward to reading the next book in the trilogy!
Terry Brooks' Running with Demon is the prototypical urban fantasy novel.
Published in 1997, it is one of the earliest novels to approach the genre and gain widespread readership.Running with the Demon introduces Brooks' world of the Word and the Void, opposing forces of chaos and order that set the stage for a well-developed unique moral relativity that serves as the bedrock of a unique narrative.
The book features excellent characters, a unique and interesting approach to its world of magic, and a riveting plot.
If you've ever enjoyed an urban fantasy novel, you're certain to like this book.
This was my first Terry Brooks novel. I thoroughly enjoyed it. It was a fast paced read with the perfect amount of character development and action. I really liked the characters of Pick and Old Bob. Pick was the comedic relief of sorts and his dialogue was always entertaining. I will definitely be reading the other two books in the trilogy in the future. The best way I can describe this book is to say that it is enjoyable, whimsical and light hearted. Fun stuff.
Not a particularly memorable horror offering from fantasy writer Brooks, but I recall liking it well enough.
I read this one because my husband really likes this series and asked me to read it. I kind of expected to hate it but ended up liking it! It took a long time to get really engaging though, which is why it took me 2 weeks to get through even though it's not exactly complicated literature.
3.5 Stars
This story is centered on a young girl named Nest Freemark who has the ability to see forces in the dark.
He had to travel to the small town because of the knowledge that he holds of Nest's future and the two very different paths that she could follow.
Depending on the events that develop over the next few days, John Ross has to be there to make the hardest decision of his life if Nest ends up making the wrong choice.
After really getting to know young Nest Freemark, John Ross doesn't know if he will be able to do what he must if she makes the wrong decision about the use of her magic.
I haven't read anything this mundane and predictable in a very long time.
Lackluster characterization is combined with startling predictability to create something that can only be described as "okay." Nest Freemark is the most realized character, and yet she still feels flat and distant.
The glimpses of Gran's youth made me wish I was reading HER story instead.As for the predictable nature of it all: From the onset, I knew who Nest's father would be.
I'm not eager to continue the series if this utter lack of suspense is an example of Brooks' general worldbuilding and storytelling.
A very entertaining contemporary fantasy, with horror elements.
John Ross is a Knight of the Word; he hunts demons, who cause large and small disasters that stir people up and cause the feeder population to grow.
Her mother died and her father disappeared under mysterious circumstances, and everyone around her seems to know ominous things about her, but no one will ever answer her questions.It's been years since I read anything by Brooks.
He is really entertaining.
Even though Nest and Ross don't meet until maybe halfway through the book or more, there was never a "OK, get on with it" feeling.
Dopo essere rimasta folgorata da I figli di Armageddon (atmosfera straordinaria), ho scoperto che la Trilogia del Demone (conosciuta anche come Trilogia del Verbo e del Vuoto) ne costituiva una specie di prequel, e così (non appena ne ho trovato in libreria un'esemplare che non fosse impolverato/strappato/stropicciato) ho acquistato questo primo capitolo.
Molti fan di Brooks sono di parere contrario, ma personalmente, per quel poco che ho letto di lui, mi sembra che l'ambientazione "realistica" giovi molto a questo autore.
In ogni caso molto ben definiti i personaggi, sia Nest Freemark che John Ross, come anche la nonna di Nest.
I found the characters interesting with their quirks (Gran's smokes and booze, Jared's catatonic fits), but they were also overused at times (I really only need to be told Gran drinks vodka and orange juice for breakfast a maximum of twice).Brooks is fantastic with narrative descriptions, making you feel as if you're walking in the footsteps of the characters.
I would have enjoyed the novel more had a lot of the repetition been cut.There is a fantastic plot and Brooks has a masterful ability to skip through the heads of characters without breaking the reader's stride, not an easy task.
I didn't know what to expect going into Running with the Demon, but I absolutely adored this book.
It was great to read a fantasy story that was set in a recognizable world, that didn't stretch out over long periods of time, and felt like it could stand on its own.
True, this is the first book in a trilogy, but when this ended it felt complete.
The writing could have been condensed a bit, but it felt very familiar and comfortable to read.
The pacing was kind of slow, but it definitely picked up in the last quarter of the book.
I'm so happy I picked this up.
