https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2352329.The_Efficiency_Expert
He's down to his last dollar before his luck starts to change.Jimmy's luck changes slowly, and he struggles along through several difficult, low-earning jobs, making friends with various members of the criminal element and frequently encountering the same lovely girl along the way, until he finally discovers a notice in the newspaper for an efficiency expert.
Armed with charm and bluster, he manages to secure the position and makes some alarming discoveries that eventually lead to a happy ending.This story is unusual for Burroughs in several ways, most notably the setting but also the characters and the romance (which isn't what you were expecting) and even the writing style.
Author tries to show us that university degree does not count in the world where practicality is appreciated. Expectation of young people coming from school are very high and nobody wants to start their life from very bottom. Through mishaps and many different jobs main character of story still gets all - money, girls and respect.
As hard to believe as it was, ERB managed to take one of his classic adventure stories that normal take place in the wild of the jungle or Mars or Venus and transposed it to Chicago in the thirties. It had all the main characters. The dashing hero, the wonderful heroine, the vicious villain. It also had the impossible dilemmas and all of the clichés that were typical to his adventure novels. Definitely a fun read.
Well, now I guess we can say he has a well rounded education.Meet Jimmy Torrance, star athlete, revered at one of the best universities around, and a classic candidate for most likely to succeed.
Cook County jail is not where you want to be, but Burroughs really didn't address that at all; in fact, it sound more like Mayberry than Chicago, and acknowledging that would have made the second half as gritty-if not moreso than the first half.
In its totality, a pretty good story, and as far as I know, quite a departure for Edgar Rice Burroughs.
Although it is not a fantasy like what Burroughs is most known for, the writing is excellent and the dialog between the characters is natural.
While listening to this audio, I couldn't help but imagine watching an old Humphrey Bogart movie.The story centers on a young gentleman, Jimmy Torrance, as he attempts to earn a living after graduating from college, jumping from job to job.
For example, Jimmy befriends and helps out a prostitute who wants to escape her current life and earn an honest wage.
,Jimmy also befriends a young upper class debutante, who introduces him to her father and the father ultimately hires him.Paul Woodson did an excellent job narrating.
Terrific book!I downloaded this book only because it was the last possible work of ERB that I hadn’t read at least once with the exception of a romance novel. I was again thrilled to find another gem! Carefully crafted and thoroughly enjoyable! I guess after after I re- read a few more Tarzan episodes I’ll have the courage to read a romance novel but don’t expect a review if I do!
In the beginning of his senior year he had captained the varsity eleven, and in the coming spring he would again sally forth upon the diamond as the star initial sacker of collegedom.update, complete, 14 MAR 12, 1019 p.m. e.s.t.Interesting story from Burroughs after reading about Muckers, Tarzan, deputy sheriffs, adventurers...Jimmy Torrrence is your college jock, barely graduates, goes to town.
This is politics in America.Anyway, Jimmy has a rough time of it initially.
Shoot man, I think they fried McVay within a year.Good story, this, a nice twist from the others from Burroughs that I've read.
And what we currently say, what goes around comes around, is very much in evidence in this lovely, entertaining, coming of age story of a young man trying to find his worth in a world quick to accuse and slander.If it hadn’t been for my admiration of the quality of productions Paul Woodson does, I would not have encountered any of Mr. Burroughs' works other than the famous Tarzan of the Apes, a fantasy, which I loved.
Per chance this is your chance to be introduced to his work, if you aren't already.We read and listen to so many marvelous authors of our time.
Thank you, Paul Woodson, for giving me a few hours with an author who should not be forgotten with your talented narration of a touching and meaningful story.
Burroughs' stories tend to be formulaic, exhibiting the same tropes over and over again, but I enjoy them because they're fun.
This story breaks the Burroughs formula.
It has a better romance than most of his stories, in a way (Minor spoiler: (view spoiler)[The main character doesn't end up with the first beautiful woman he sees!
First, a minor spoiler: (view spoiler)[It doesn't seem fitting to Jimmy's character that he's willing to lie to get his job as an efficiency expert.
I wish Burroughs had come up with a different way for him to get that job (hide spoiler)].
I read it on my kindle but if it were a paper book it is estimated to have been about 130 pages.The Efficiency Expert features Jimmy Torrance, a talented young college student who is a great athlete and natural leaders and all around great guy to have at a party but does not take his studies seriously.
Jimmy's money quickly dries up and...Read more at: http://dwdsreviews.blogspot.com/2012/...
Although it is not a fantasy like what Burroughs is most known for, the writing is excellent and the dialog between the characters is natural.
While listening to this audio, I couldn't help but imagine watching an old Humphrey Bogart movie.
The story centers on a young gentleman, Jimmy Torrance, as he attempts to earn a living after graduating from college, jumping from job to job.
For example, Jimmy befriends and helps out a prostitute who wants to escape her current life and earn an honest wage.
,Jimmy also befriends a young upper class debutante, who introduces him to her father and the father ultimately hires him.
for this i will give this half a star.Enjoyable: the book was a great and easy read keeping me entertained from beginning to end.
for this one star.Thought provoking: the book pretty much unravels itself very early on, it does not keep it from being interesting, but you pretty much know the ending half way.
For this I give half a star.Imagery: as an easy read y could see the movie on my head almost throughout, for this I give a full star.overall it was a great book that I enjoyed reading.
for this I can say it was a good friend and deserves a full star.
It is more of a mainstream novel than we associate with ERB, and if the story isn't all that realistic, the setting (Chicago in the twenties) is.There is more humor in this story than I associate with ERB.
The hero has the usual virtues of an ERB hero, but they don't seem to do him much good.
There are a lot of coincidences in the story, but as they make life more difficult for the hero, not easier, they're easy to tolerate.
He meets a lot of colorful characters.It isn't great literature, but it might be my new favorite ERB story.
This is a book you can just sit back and enjoy the ride.
This one took a good hour for me to start getting interested, so I'm glad I was able to get past the introduction to the main character because the rest of the book was great.Paul Woodson does a great job with the narration.
His enunciation is great, and he does accents and male/female voices believable.
He has the right kind of voice for exploring the lesser known classics.
I received this book for free from audiobookblast in exchange for an honest review.
As many of ERBs books as I have read, and as formulaic as I have found his works - this one was very enjoyable. The hero is noble like so many of ERBs characters and yet so real and perhaps applicable to some people in these hard times. This story just had a better 'feel' than most of his others. And, I can say that I did not see the ending coming. Like the first Tarzan and John Carter books, I can recommend this one.(Although, I still do not like his bigotry.)
Forgot to add when I started reading this, so I estimated. It seems slow, but the characters are interesting. Jimmy, the main character, is a gentleman that believes the world is his to control, but gets a rude awakening after graduating college. Still, he finds some people, unlikely ones at that, to help him back up from the bottom.
Paul Woodson narrates this version of Edgar Rice Burroughs story of a man looking for a job.Not much is available but it is possible that he could be an Efficiency Expert,whcih is someone who comes in and fixes things at companies to make it run smoother.With his gal pal helping,can he do it?It is a fun read.I was given this book for free for an honest review.
Like Princess of Mars, the story is a bit pedestrian (and gratingly classist), but I like the writing. Unlike that book, though, there are a few characters here that I felt for.Read as an ebook on my cell phone.
It's different from some Burroughs Books in that it is set in ERB's modern in an modern city. But very similiar even to Tarzan, John Carter, etc. with the Good Guy being very chivalrous and noble, and with a lot of chance meetings finally coming together.
Privileged jock and college hero gets an unwelcome surprise when he discovers a degree does not guarantee gainful employment. Minimum wage ensues.About as down-to-earth as an ERB book can get. Refreshingly free of most racial stereotypes. And not every eligible woman winds up married.
Excellent yarn about a college graduate in 1920s Chicago. He fakes his way into a high paying job and discovers a plot to murder his employer. Change of pace from the usual master of pulp fiction style.
Finding the Edgar Rice Burroughs books very readable and they're keeping me awake late wanting to finish them.Again the use of a recurring story line with the girl, also seen in Pellucidar series as well as the Cave Girl.
One of my less favorite Edgar Rice Burroughs books, probably because of the complete lack of thews of steel, also because of the romantic twist at the end that is even more unlikely than Burroughs' usual sort. Maybe it's just because it breaks from the usual Burroughs pattern that I love so much.
This is one of Burroughs's contemporary novels, though set around 1920. Parts are extraordinarily good, while others drag on. It is the classic tale of pluck winning the day. Old fashioned, yes, but a pretty good read.
Read this book for free through Project Gutenberg: http://www.gutenberg.org/files/3475/3...
My second non-scifi non-fantasy ERB book. Really like the plot.
A fun little book and a pleasant break from Burroughs' more formulaic sci-fi tales. I'm surprised it was never made into a movie as its very cinematic.
Sketchy
surprisingly current considering the year it was written. it's not the "normal" ERB fantasy/sci-fi story but it still has the ERB "feel" to it.
Enjoyable, but ruined by the ending. It's as though ERB was embarrassed by the conventional and contrived ending and tried to get it over with as quickly as possible, which only really made it worse.
