https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110988.In_the_Land_of_Pain
There are days, long days, when the only part of me that's alive is my pain." "In the morning my hands are obstinately curled up on top of the sheet, like dead leaves, deprived of sap."Daudet describes his experience at different spas and watering places, where he meets patients of all types - even a few remarkably like himself, which warn him of what's to come.
How you love him, and how you make him tell you everything." His descriptions of the symptoms of the other patients, and their conversations, the world of those who live in constant pain - "At the start of each season at Lamalou the patients, in all their weirdness and diversity, draw comfort from the demonstration that their respective illnesses all have something in common.

Painful as it is to read, this is one of the only texts that has confronted me with what living in my own land of pain is like.
Pain--so impossible to describe--is here acutely rendered in Daudet's notes, scribbles of desperation, despair, and the helpless void that is living in chronic pain.
As someone with a chronic pain condition, I cannot recommend this tome enough to my friends and family, or to anyone who wishes a glimpse at the trials and travails bestowed upon those with constant, physical suffering.
In the Land of Pain by Alphonse Daudet is a set of notes about his ghastly suffering due to tabes dorsalis, a form of advanced syphilis that develops over the course of decades and, because it attacks the spinal cord, generates an utterly bewildering set of painful symptoms: no part of the body, or mind, is spared, there is no predictable rhythm or sequence involved, it could be your calf, it could be your trembling hands, it could be double-vision, it could be transient paralysis, it could be a species of uncontrollable jigging and dancing.Daudet was a commercially successful French novelist, short story writer, and playwright in the latter part of the 19th century.
Recommended by a customer to my husband as a "must read". I, unfortunately, cannot give that same shout of praise. Two of the three stars I give this is for Julian Barnes -- just for being Julian Barnes.There are some interesting factoids about early writers, as well as syphilis, pain, and drug use among some of those considered "the greatest minds and thinkers of our time". Not interesting enough, however, for me to suggest you bother reading this yourself.
This book, both thoughtful and delightful, would probably be enjoyed by just about anybody. If you find yourself in the position of being diagnosed with something incurable, painful, and chronic, however, this book becomes something more necessary. How do we face our pain and our ends with clarity and grace? These notes from a fellow sufferer will help light the way.
Here you have none of Donne's morbid, self-regarding theatrics, but rather a magnificently cleared-eyed account of bodily dissolution. It must take courage to confront unbearable physical pain with... attention. Daudet emerges from this book an unlikely hero.
Daudet's notes for a journal of his own death (over years) from Syphilis...it should be depressing but it is wonderful
crude degeneration is such a modernist motif that, just by describing his reality, daudet's writing feels ahead of its time!
--It was hard not to be struck by Daudet's nobility (if you wish to call it that) in facing his condition head on, never letting his family see him despair or crack, and having a sense of mission/duty with regard to his "obligation" as a writer to capture, as best as possible the essence of his experience.--As Daudet notes, words come only after the pain has passed (temporarily) but what he manages to get down in those brief pauses…damn.
In the final ten years of his life, dying from the strain of syphilis that caused his body to fluctuate between paralysis and uncontrollable spasms, Daudet complied this journal of notes on pain for a piece of fiction that he was never able to write.
In the words of Daudet: "You have to die so many times before you die..." The Land of Pain is one that all people must visit in one way or another throughout life.
(The idea of syphilis being a metaphor for life is not lost on Flaubert, who wrote: "Syphilis: everyone, more or less, suffers from it.") For some, their visit to the Land of Pain lasts longer than others.
****.Daudet is one of those French writers that no one reads much anymore.
Unfortunately, he contracted syphilis at the age of 17, and suffered from its effects for the rest of his life.
During this period, he kept a journal or diary that chronicled his pain as caused by the disease and its treatment.
Julian Barnes, a noted British writer and critic, chose to translate this journal and present it to the reading public under the above title.
Daudet was not alone in having this disease.
Many other famous French writers also went through their lives suffering from the same illness.
In the Land of Pain is a quick but rewarding read comprised of the fragmentary notes that French author Alphonse Daudet took as he slowly died during the tertiary, fatal stages of syphilis.
Instead, Daudet describes simple things that he can never escape - pain described in analogy to everyday life.
It is the simple things that make the reader think, and that is why it succeeds.That's not to say that the book is perfect.
Extensive footnotes illuminate the text, and brief essays on Daudet and syphilis give context.
It amazes me how "modern" of an illness narrative this is for the time in which it was written. The book consists of a series of meditative fragments, translated by Julian Barnes, of a man suffering with intense pain from syphilitic neural degeneration. So many beautiful, lucid lines like this one: "[there is] no general theory about pain. Each patient discovers his own, and the nature of pain varies, like a singer's voice, according to the acoustics of the hall..."
This book is a series of fragments and notes Daudet made over all the years he was slowly slowly dying of syphilis. He spent most of his time in excruciating pain or doped up on morphine and these jottings are his best attempt at holding forth on the subject of pain. A pretty good examination at the sort of the conflicted internal life of one suffering chronic pain. Weirdly I think this was recommended to me as a comedy.
I did not think this was going to be as readable as it was, since I don't usually enjoy French authors, but in fact it's lovely. That is, except the endless footnotes by the translator, mostly about things you don't care about that only distract from the text. Except sometimes when the clarify something, so you find yourself reading them.
Intriguing view of living with pain, illness and slow disintegration, written in a journalistic and somehow pragmatic fashion. Very instructive to my own creative writing on pain, addiction, sin and redemption.
I am a big Barnes fan and I know his French is excellent. This was an odd little book about a man's last dying days. It was interesting and the language was intellectually challenging but what a morose subject.
Heart-wrenching.
An amazing read. Highly recommend
It is basically a very short, impressionistic set of notes by novelist Alphonse Daudet describing his experience of tertiary syphilis, with an introduction and afterword by Julian Barnes.
This certainly rang true thinking of the time I was painfully ill last year: the pain was excruciating and made it impossible to imagine what it felt like to not have it.
In this sense, it's not clear to me that this book should have been published at all.
It seems almost disrespectful; like Barnes found these notes and was looking to try his hand at translating a text that wasn't too long and decided this would do.
One of the most poignant, revealing and beautifully dark books I have ever read. Alphonse Daudet's struggle with syphilis and impending death, amid constant pain and suffering, is a truly unique insight into the mind of someone acutely aware of his own demise, and the effects it has on those around him. This will move you and open your mind to something only those have experienced can describe.
I cannot recommend this enough! I loved Daudet’s insightful and poetic jottings on what it was like to have tabes dorsalis in the last decade of his life, his charming anecdotes about sanatorium culture and fellow sufferers, and Barnes’s footnotes replete with great factoids about the great French literary syphilitics.
Let’s begin with the former.Daudet, as a literary mind, no doubt understood – intuitively, if not explicitly – that one of the goals of literature is to impart upon the reader some sense of the author’s phenomenology.
I don’t have to worry about catching it any more, and I screw the street whores and trollops, and afterwards say to them, “I’ve got the pox.”’ Maupassant subsequently developed GPI, attempted suicide in 1891, and died, after eighteen months in a lunatic asylum, in 1893.” [p.85]*I’m not so oblique as to not know it’s the reverse.
Daudet (trans. Barnes) is an excellent writer, and after reading this account of his decline as a result of syphilitic tabes dorsalis, I feel I should read more of his work. This is a unique insight into the late 19th-century experience of someone wasting away from a now-curable ailment. Well-written, at times philosophical, musings on pain and death and the value of life, even small things, in the light of suffering.
Originally Daudet was going to write a book about Some Other guy who was dying who wanted to commit suicide etc, because Daudet was afraid of embarassing his family.A lot of people put pressure on him to keep any book in that vein from being written, so we're left with the jottings and notes he left while syphilis was eating his brain.None of them really struck me as outright horrible, I had to think of them for a minute before that happened.
Its a really short book that would probably take anyone forever to get through if they wanted to really read and empathize with it.
An amazing chronicle of a man dying of syphillis; and oddly I found myself enjoying his words and the way he puts them together, even when in excruciating pain.
BUT the endless footnotes really distracted from the book, at least for me.
Some of the footnotes covered 3/4 of a page and went on to the next page.
By the time I was done reading the footnote, I had forgotten much of what I read of the book leading up to the footnote.
I found most of them unnecessary, some could have perhaps covered in simple parenthesis.
Daudet chronicles his agonizing decline due to tertiary stage syphilis. And interesting little book that is neither depressing nor a long bore of symptoms and complaints. If you have no sympathy for hypochondriacs, this will definitely not change your mind any.
Given an extra star because of Julian Barnes' wise and stylish introduction. This is a short book, a book of fragments. Anyone interested in reading about sickness would do far better to read Anatole Broyard's Intoxicated By My Illness.
1st American edition, translated by Julian Barnes, signed by JB
