https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39664.Rita_Hayworth_and_Shawshank_Redemption
Red tells us the story of his fellow prisoner Andy Dufresne, falsely accused of a murder he did not commit and sentenced to a life behind bars as a result.
Now I'm twice that age, having seen a bit of the life's cruelty that King so frequently alludes to, and I no longer cry at the ending of this book; instead, I marvel with a feeling of sadness and quiet fascination at how aptly he captured the need to keep going despite all odds, even when it appears there is nothing left to live and hope for.

I was and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope, friendship, and redemption.
After a quick conviction, Andy finds himself serving a life sentence at Shawshank prison, with no hope of parole.Stephen King is one of the most enchanting storytellers of our time, and perhaps, the only one alive.
It is a riveting tale about friendship and the strength of character, about going up against what is wrong and unfair and coming out on top through pure true grit and a little luck, that will leave you in utter amazement!
"يقولون إن المحيط الهادئ ليس له ذاكرة.
هذا هو المكان الذي أريد أن أعيش فيه بقية حياتي.
" يقول علماء الجيولوجيا أن الصخور لا تحتاج في تشكلها إلا لعاملين: الضغط و الوقت.و هل يوجد في السجن إلا الضغط و الوقت؟ و هل تختلف الحياة كثيرا خارج السجن؟ليس في النوفيلا أيضا إلا الضغط و الوقت و الصخور الكثيرة المتنوعة.صخرة الخيانة التي حطمت الحب و صخرة الجريمة التي حطمت الحياة و صخرة الظلم التي حطمت العدالة و البراءة و صخرة السجن التي حطمت كل أمل في الحياة.ثم صخور جمعها آندي في السجن من الفناء ليصنع منها أشكال و زخارف تنبض بالحياة لا ينقصها إلا الروح لتنطلق و تحلق في حرية خارج الأسوار و صخرة أخرى خبأ تحتها آندي مفتاح الأمل في النجاة و صخرة أخيرة استقر عليها في النهاية بعد أن ألقى بمرساته بين صخور الشاطىء الناتئة.نوفيلا رائعة و ممتعة.
I've watched The Shawshank Redemption movie any number of times on cable TV (at least the last half of it; I almost always manage to miss the first half).
So a few weeks ago when my husband asked me to find Stephen King's story The Body (the basis for the movie Stand by Me), I was delighted to find the novella Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption in the same collection.
:)A lifetime convict, Red (in the story, a redheaded man of Irish descent :( - no Morgan Freeman) narrates the story of Andy Dufresne, his unjust imprisonment for murder in Shawshank Prison, and his life and times in prison.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “I hope . . .” The moral of the story? You have to crawl through a lot of shit in life before you reach Zihuatanejo.Uncle Stevie will always be known as the Master of Horror, but it’s my belief that his not-so-scary stuff is where he truly shines. Hands down my favorite story ever, that just so happened to be converted into one of my favorite films as well. If you’ve not yet experienced it, you’re missing out on what my husband and I
Hands down my favorite story ever, that just so happened to be converted into one of my favorite films as well.
If you’ve not yet experienced it, you’re missing out on what my husband and I have dubbed “getting Shawshanked.” It’s one of those films that you can’t help but pause on when scrolling through the channels on the boob tube “just for a second.” That second turns into watching whatever remains of the film, and quite possibly crying a time or two.
The book spares the reader the heartbreak which is Brooks, while the film offers the best miscasting of all-time with this “red-haired Irishman” .
This is going to be a different kind of review.While we all know that the book is better than the movie - no, this is not a debatable statement...while I strongly feel that everybody is entitled to their opinion, you are wrong if you don't agree and it's time somebody is brutally honest with you - we tend to forget that adapting a book into a screenplay is a writing art of its own.The writer of the screenplay will always be at a disadvantage when adapting a book, especially when it is a popular story already.
Η μια αφίσα διαδεχόταν την άλλη στο κελί του Άντυ Νταφρέσν στις πολιτειακές φυλακές Shawshank και τα χρόνια το ίδιο.
Ίσως κάποια μέρα καταλάβεις τι θέλω να πω».Θα μπορούσα να αραδιάσω ένα σωρό πράγματα για την πλοκή αυτής της νουβέλας, την άγρια καθημερινότητα της φυλακής, τους κτηνώδεις ανθρωποφύλακες, το μυστικό που έκρυβαν στα 'οπίσθιά’ τους οι επιτοίχιες ιλουστρασιόν θεές του Άντυ και πως πετραδάκι – πετραδάκι άνοιξε τον δικό του δρόμο προς την ελευθερία.
Έτσι, τ’ αφήνεις να φύγουν ή, όταν ανοίγεις το κλουβί για να τα ταϊσεις, κατορθώνουν να ξεφύγουν».Το πάθος για τη λευτεριά είναι δυνατότερο απ’ όλα τα κελιά.Τόσα αστέρια, όσα εκείνα που αντίκρυσε ο Άντυ Νταφρέσν στον ουρανό της πολιτείας του Μαίην, είκοσι επτά ολόκληρα χρόνια μετά, ελεύθερος...
This is one of my favorite movies and I watch it anytime it's rerun on tv.
I've vowed to read more Stephen King because if you skip those of the horror genre, his other books are such wonderful, human stories.
Having recently been in on some discussions of another prison book, The Enchanted, I couldn't help but compare the two books as I read along.
The narrator on the audio was not Morgan Freeman--darn--but was very good.
I am always recommending the movie and now I'll start recommending the audio book just as heartily.
I've read many other reviews emphasizing it, and I can only sign what they are writing: this is not only a story about life in prison (which, by the way, is depicted in a very realistic way - not that I would be able to judge how life in prison really feels like, but at least King managed to convince me this is how it would feel like to be imprisoned for more than thirty years), but also a story about hope.
میدونی مکزیکیها در مورد اقیانوس آرام چی میگن رِد؟ میگن که اونجا هیچ خاطرهای وجود نداره و به همین علته که من میخوام زندگیم رو اونجا به پایان برسونم بعد از کتاب پاپیون هانری شاریر (و اقتباس سینمایی آن با بازی به یاد ماندنی استیو مککوئین)، کتاب امیدهای جاودان بهاری: رهایی از شاوشنک جزء بهترینهای این ژانر محسوب میشود که هر دو درونمایهای یکسان دارند: امید به رهاییاین کتاب را مدتها پیش خریده بودم و خواندن آن را به روزهای سخت آینده محول کرده بودم و چه خوب هم به کارم آمد! در شبهای تاریک پادگان شروع به
می‌دونی مکزیکی‌ها در مورد اقیانوس آرام چی می‌گن رِد؟ می‌گن که اونجا هیچ خاطره‌ای وجود نداره و به همین علته که من می‌خوام زندگیم رو اونجا به پایان برسونم
در شب‌های تاریک پادگان شروع به خواندنش کردم، امیدبخش بود و گرم، مانند ساحل اقیانوسی که اندی دفرسن در زندان برای رِد توصیف می‌کند.
گویی من مخاطبِ در بندِ اندی بودم که در گوشم می‌گفت مهم نیست کجا باشی، آزاد یا اسیر، در هر کجا که هستی یا به زندگی ات مشغول شو، یا مشغول مردن شونسخه‌ی فارسی این کتاب را به علت ترجمه‌ی ضعیف و اشتباهات نگارشی بسیار به کسی پیشنهاد نمی‌کنم، اما اقتباس سینمایی آن را - اگر هست هنوز کسی که آن را ندیده باشد - قویاً توصیه می‌کنم
Anyone driving north on Rte 3 "down in Massachusetts" this morning may have passed a girl driving an SUV, one hand covering her mouth, tears pouring down her face and neck.
They may have wondered in passing if she was having a rough morning or had received some bad news...but would anyone ever guess that she was in throes of this cathartic sobfest courtesy of Stephen King and the beautiful final passages of The Shawshank Redemption?
Having seen the movie countless times and identifying it as my all-time favorite, I pictured Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins throughout the story but that neither added to nor detracted from the experience for me...and this was just that...an experience.
One of the best set of novella length stories ever put together.
For anyone out there who accuses King of not beinjg able to write well, this set should end that argument.Shawshank: "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption" is a masterpiece.
Written by another man at another time, this story might be considered a classic.
I hope someday it's recognized as such.Breathing Method: The weakest sotry of the bunch, and tip of the hat to people who love King for his ability to shock and get all the "gooshy" stuff just right.
Still a must read for King fans, but the odd man out in this set.
I hadn't read a truly frightening book of his. Yes, King's novels are disturbing, but not scary. A truly powerful yet disturbing account of an injustice law system, and the effects it has on a young man's life. Although imprisoned unjustly, he doesn't complain: it is not in his character. Instead, he decides to fight the system: not with his fists, with his mind. He succeeds. If you liked the movie, you will not be dissapointed in the moody, honest and bold novel. But in the sad case when you haven't seen the movie, don't read the book.
This is such a wonderful story. It's the "Hope Springs Eternal" portion of Different Seasons. That sounds ridiculous on the surface because, it is after all, about a man wrongfully convicted of a double homicide and then incarcerated for decades, but somehow King infuses each page with hope. Even the pages that talk about lining your underwear with toilet paper because you've been raped! Any writer that can do that is a magician and a genius in my opinion!
It is Red who tell the story of his friend's hope and redemption.Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman as Andy and RedThe Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 film starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman.
So you can imagine what the short story is like.From Red's perspective,  we will know not only why he got in prison, also the decades locked in with Andy Dufresne,  who suffers the worst humiliations imaginable but continues to stand firm and not succumb to sadness and despair.
Pero con los años muchas voces se alzaron diciendo lo maravillosa que era y el puesto que merecía entre las mejores películas de la década y de todos los tiempos.
Maybe it's not a perfect, 5-star book in everyone else's opinion, but by god that was a satisfying read!
You can't read/talk about this book without referencing its movie counterpart, because after all, Shawshank Redemption is one of the most popular and well-liked movies of all time.
Another reason is that the book and movie are almost exactly alike.
Sure, there are a few bits in the book that the movie leaves out, and a modicum of poetic justice is doled out in the movie that doesn't happen in the book.
Otherwise though, they're one and the same, and I love them both!
This was my first ever experience of a Stephen King work, and honestly it was a masterpiece. Such a great introduction to his work! It's usually not my genre, but the writing style and the pacing just made this worthwhile to read, and I found myself actually enjoying it!4 stars!
عندما تظلم حياتك بامكانك الاستسلام او استخدام عقلك وتدبر امورك. اندي دخل السجن بسبب خيانة زوجته وخرج بفضل صورة ريتا هيوارث اندي عرف الفرق بين الاشياء التي يستطيع تغييرها والاشياء التي فرضت عليه اندي تاقلم مع وضعه لمدة ثم حصل على حريته وخلال تلك الفترة المظلمة كان له اثر ايجابي على كل المحيطين به. التغيير يبدا من الداخل الى الخارج وليس العكس واندي فهم ذلك جيدا فهم ان لديه الخيار بين ان يؤثر على هذا العالم او يسمح له بالتاثير عليه فهم انه هناك دائما امل.
অসাধারণ।
I am willing to bet the majority of people reading this review have already seen the film version of The Shawshank Redemption.
The Shawshank Redemption by Stephen King is a relatively short book.
I genuinely liked Andy Dufresne, disliked the corrupt guards known as screws, and Red - the man who can get you anything in prison.
You have Red who's been in jail for so long that it feels safe to him, he has a position of prominence within the prison as the man who can get anything.
Πολύ ωραία ιστορία, γρήγορη, τα έχει όλα!!
140 σελίδες που έχουν τα πάντα...αριστούργημα...είναι μοναδικός...η ταινία επίσης εξαιρετική
"Remember Red, hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies." How is this everyone's favourite (movie)?
I, however, haven't watched the movie and having read the book I don't think I ever will.
I found it rather stupid.
Twenty years at the prison and no one looked behind the poster of Rita Hayworth put up by Andy Dufresne in his cell.
"I hope I can make it across the border.
I hope to see my friend and shake his hand.
I hope the Pacific is as blue as it has been in my dreams.
I hope."
একমাতর বই যেটার বই থেকে মুভিটা বেশি অসাধারন লেগেছে। মরগযান ফরিমযানের কণঠসবর <3
একমাত্র বই যেটার বই থেকে মুভিটা বেশি অসাধারন লেগেছে। মরগ্যান ফ্রিম্যানের কণ্ঠস্বর <3
Sometimes as a reader I feel like a child who just wants to curl up and listen to their parents read them a bedtime story, and while Red makes it clear that prison is no place for fairytales, this one has that same calming, spellbinding effect.The film adaptation of this is my favourite movie of all time, as I suspect is the case for many people, and I know you're wondering: Which is better, the movie or the book?
I shall Wait patiently to let what I continuely get from the book and movie evolve and mature.For these reasons, the reviews could't and should't be done rashly.The most probable thing I shall engage in is to put some words down year by year and take a close scrutiny of where the future would lead me .
By these methods, I could retrospect the trajectory of life.I Guess the continuation of reviews will persist for a very long period.Put down whatever I think of from this book and movie here and let them be the witness of who I shall become.
I can't believe it took me this long to discover this novella, especially since The Shawshank Redemption is my all time favorite movie.
Hearing the story from Red's gentle and detailed perspective was intriguing.
Red has a great sense of humor throughout the book.
He tells the story in a way that allows you to see the passing of time.
I also loved the peek into the prison world.
It's hard to imagine the living conditions that some prisoners face.
Best of all I think was that Red was a murderer.
However, I feel that Red did change.
من اروع ما قرأت لهذا الكاتب المذهلرجل سجن خطأ بتهمة قتل زوجته , تحت امرة سجان سادي يهوى تعذيب السجنا
very kool story !!
