https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84132.The_Dream_Hunter
This was a strange world mankind lived in. No wonder they escaped into dreams.  Well, I expected more...Aside from the secondary characters who are really worth mentioning, for me The Dream-Hunter was a boring, weak, and unimpressive story. First of all, I have serious problems with the main characters, Arik and Geary.Geary is totally inconsistent. She is not even a character, she is just put together by various but ill-matched personalities and behaviorisms thrown in a pile. She behaves illog
Well, I expected more...Aside from the secondary characters who are really worth mentioning, for me The Dream-Hunter was a boring, weak, and unimpressive story.
(view spoiler)[The story starts that she hates her father because of his obsessed and vain quest for Atlantis, and considers him responsible for the death of the rest of their family.
Even in the last scene, when (view spoiler)[ Geary is rescuing Arik, Kat is there to help.
As soon as they get out of Hell, there is D’Alerian who shifts them back to their apartment.There is only one time when Geary saves Arik from the Dolophoni changing the scene in their dreams.
The 1st book in the Dream-Hunter Series which is also part of the Dark Series World….okay, you’re confused…so am I!!! All these “inside” series of a series!!! Ok, never mind…enough of that!!!Dark-Hunters job is to protect humans from demons entering their dreams. This is the story of a once powerful member of the Oneroi who fell from grace!!!!   Arik was one of those protectors but things went wrong when he entered a human’s dream, resulting in him becoming a Skotos, losing all his feelings and
The 1st book in the Dream-Hunter Series which is also part of the Dark Series World….okay, you’re confused…so am I!!!
Ok, never mind…enough of that!!!Dark-Hunters job is to protect humans from demons entering their dreams.
Arik was one of those protectors but things went wrong when he entered a human’s dream, resulting in him becoming a Skotos, losing all his feelings and has been for thousands of years looking for someone that will make him feel passion and alive again.
Get a life girls!!!!!I found the secondary characters and subplots much more interesting than the romance between Arik & Megeara!!!
Arikos Catranides (Oneroi Skotos) and Megeara Kafieri (Human)How far a man would go in order to sleep with the woman he wants…Arik has been visiting Megeara in her dreams often.
I can surely imagine Gods and Goddesses walking in Fira’s alleys in Santorini.Note: I usually don’t bother correcting Greek language mistakes in English texts that are trying to translate greek, but I feel the need to do it this time because the meaning is totally different.
Sorry!*shudder* Not even once...This takes place before all of the other books.
And, it isn't about a Dark hunter, but a Dream Hunter which is a lot less exciting.
I don't know how other people feel on this, but I don't really like when books have a bunch of dreams written in them.
I feel the same way about people telling me about a dream they had.
Dreams don't make sense, okay?
And, you struggling to tell me how the pig turned into your mother and you were running from a buffalo isn't interesting to me.Needless to say, I found this book very boring.
It seems that a lot of people don’t like the addition of the Dream Hunters to the Dark Hunter series, but I found the concept an intriguing one - a race that is cursed to feel no emotions and therefore have to syphon them off humans while they dream.
I really liked his innocence, and watching him discover the world as a ‘human’ as he was finally exposed to the emotions that he had never been allowed to feel as a Dream Hunter.
I love how she has weaved the Greek mythology and history into her Fantasy-Paranormal Romance stories.
Although the first half of the book was a bit slow, the story picked up greatly in the second half.This is the first book in Dream-Hunter series, the story of Arikos or Arik, the Skoti who was drawn to the heroine’s rich and sensational dreamscapes, and Dr. Megeara or Geary, the woman who was trying to prove that Atlantis was not just a myth.5 Stars for the storyline.
But my only complaint with this book was the romance--2 stars for this part.
It had the usual mix of romance, humor, and action that you would expect from the series, and also included some interesting subplots as well as an interesting main story arc.Arik is an emotionless Skotos who only feels emotions when he drains them from humans in their dreams.
The price seemed like nothing at all to Arik when he had no feelings and emotions, but the longer he spends in the human world, with Megeara, the more he realizes the true price of the bargain he has struck with Hades.
Yeah, you guessed it. I did not like this! AT ALL!!!So here are my feelings in a few simple images:Yups, that’s about it! Not my kind of guy, boring story and stupid heroine!!! Gah!!! I just read this hoping that I wouldn’t miss anything related to Ash and Nick and I got just a small slice towards the end. It didn’t even make such a big difference o.O Huge disappointment…
So Arik is warned to stop visiting Geary.In order to have more time with her, Arik goes to Hades to ask to be turned into a human so that he can meet Geary and spend time with her.
In exchange for giving Arik two weeks on Earth as a human, Hades wants Geary's soul.
We spend time with Hades, Persephone, and other famous Greek characters in this book.There's action and fighting, love and sex, redemption, - all the stuff I really want in a romance novel.Really the only bad thing I can say about it is that Kenyon yet again just CANNOT resist slipping in this female self-hatred.
And of course once again,Greek Gods + Vampires + Daimons + Dream Gods + Dark Hunters + Insignificant Humans blabbering + Of course Captivating dry humour = The whole book! Concept: 2.5/5.0Execution: 2.75/5.0 Characters Bespoken: 2.5 /5.0Cover: 2.75/5.0Overall: 2.5/5.0As for Arikos and  Megeara:P.S.: I want Acheron back! *sighs*
The story predates all the DH & Were-Hunter books (if you're reading them in the author's DH Universe suggested order).
Arikos wants to know her in the real world, not in the misty dream world.
He makes a deal & ends up human for 2 weeks & finds out dream world Geary is much different from real world Geary.
Geary is annoying & Arik is meh, until the end.
But knowing the why's about not finding Atlantis & how disastrous it would be, made reading this with Geary's obsession as fun as eating rocks.
Ya sé quién es la mamá de Katra y del papá me lo estoy imaginado y me está dando el patatús LITERAL 
Sweet. Loads of amazing facts from Atlantean myths, legends, and Greek lore. As always Persephone and Hades are my favs. What's annoying is the subseries get confusing. Did I read this in order?Not sure. Overall, not bad. Loved the Euridice and Orpheus reference. Good thing I don't mind loads of characters. They are all interesting, and the plot twists aren't bad. Just wish I liked Geary more and loved Arik less.
SK gets that the Greek myths have characters that are not always completely good or evil, that the gods' motivations are often selfish and petty.
When he is denied the closeness he craves with her through the dreams, he desperately makes a deal with Hades to be human for two weeks to spend time with this human he has become so captivated with.
However, those of us who have studied the myths know that the gods don't make fair deals.
I loved the direction that SK went with this book because it gives me some in depth on some of the Greek myths that always intrigued me.
Having said that it's probably still better than a lot of paranormal romance stories out there but I have high expectations when I pick up a book by this author and for some reason The Dream-Hunter didn't quite live up to them.I did really enjoy finding out about the Dream Hunters and learning about their abilities but I was put off Arik because of his initial attitude towards Geary.
I still enjoy this author's writing style, I love the richly developed and diverse world of the Dark-Hunters, she never seems to run out of new mythology to pull into the series and that side of things is just as fascinating as ever.
I hesitated to write a review for this book because though I enjoyed some parts, I found the majority of the book slow and filled with repetitive information that fans of the Dark Hunter series would already know.
Solin is a very interesting character with a dark past that I hope to see more of in the future.I didn't care much for the heroine, Geary, being so uptight and suspicious throughout the entire book.
I wish writers could understand that dream sequence love scenes don't count because they aren't real!I enjoyed the fight between Kat and Artemis over her relationship with Apollymi.
Not crazy about this one.
It took me a long time to finish it, because the plot just wasn't very interesting.
I didn't care about either of the main characters, Megeara and Arik.
The love story between them felt flat and fake, and I really didn't care if they ended up together.
It finally got a little bit interesting toward the end, and I credit that to some of the minor characters, like Kat and Solin.
The guy himself isn't bad-looking, but what's up with that freaky hair?!
Is it a bad perm?

Bence biliyor ve bana dibine kadar katılıyorsunuz, bu Allah'sız yazarlar öyle adamlar yazıyor ki kitabı bitirdikten sonra hiçbir şey olmamış gibi hayatınıza devam etmeniz bekleniyor.Kimse düşünmüyor tabii olan var olmayan var diye!Buradan şunu anlıyoruz, ben açken saldıracak yer arıyorum ve şu anda elimin altında Sherrilyn var skdkfmgkgNeyse çok uzatmayacağım bu isyan kısmını, enerjimi korumam lazım.
😉Genel sıralamada on birinci kitap olan The Dream Hunter aynı zamanda Dream Hunter serisinin ilk kitabı oluyor.Arik bir Skotos, yani rüyalara girme yeteneği olan ama aynı yeteneği sahip Oneroilerin aksine kötü çocuk diyebiliriz.
Oneroiler insanların rüyalarına girip onları korurken ya da öyle bir şeyler işte, Skotoslar bunun tam tersine, insanları kendi çıkarları ve zevkleri için kullanıyor.
A very interesting read, this story was actually focused more on the mythology of Atlantis than the rest of the books in this series.
I thought it was interesting how Geary goes through Hades to get Arik back.
She even turns out pregnant in the end.I noticed the book was out of sink in the time line of this story because it mentions sending a dream hunter to Zarek in Alaska to learn compassion and also mentions Kyran and Nick, only Kyran is not mated yet and is still a Dark Hunter.I look forward to reading the next book in this series.
I also have to say, despite said liking, SK has a major problem in this book.Plotting.Dream Hunter has some of the laziest plotting I've ever seen.
So much so, that he literally makes a pact with the devil (Hades) to be able to meet Geary in the flesh.While in his world, the world of dreams and the Greek Pantheon, Arik has no emotions.
(Here's where a lot of convenient and senseless contrivance plotting comes in- well, here and throughout Arik and Geary's love story too- but it's glaringly obvious in everything dealing with Apollymi.) But, perhaps you'll be able to get over it as I did because ...
2.5 starsI have a couple other series that I’m about 11 books in and they can still get me all fangirl-squee-hyperventilating and whatnot.
Geary finds him and somehow he ends up on the little Atlantis adventure with her.
This is Arik’s first time on Earth so he doesn’t understand many things and makes little mistakes.
They’re cute, fun and I’m ready for their HEA.
Then all these new gods, hunters, and I don’t even know whats come in.
I’m guessing this isn’t really #11 and it’s not going in the timeline of the rest of the series.
(hide spoiler)]I don’t know if I’m continuing after this or not.
While Dream Hunter Arik, is certainly damaged and on the high end of the SexOmeter - I had some trouble feeling empathy with him in the same way as I have the Dark Hunters.
The story was slow to draw me in as I missed some of the intensity of other books in the series.Arik bargains with Hades for two weeks as a human in order to experience sex for real with Megeara “Geary” Saatsakis, a woman whose dreams Arik has invaded - hot, steamy, erotic dreams.
While certainly unique, Dream Hunter moved a bit slow for me until near the end.
Many fans don't lay claim to The Dream Hunter as being one of the more favorite books, but I really enjoyed it for the simple fact that the plot was so entirely solid.
While most don't think that it sounds like it is on the surface, when delving into the reading of the story, the true level of fluidness shines through.On a side note, reading The Dream-Hunter is especially entertaining now that I've read Devil May Cry and Acheron- both lay credence and specific interest to sub-characters within The Dream-Hunter for parallel reasons.Over all- a wonderful and enjoyable read!
What was most enjoyable about Megeara is how she stands up to Arik, a god of dreams, and she has such a zest for what she believes in and I loved seeing her character develop through the story.Plot and Story Line Dream Hunter is the first book in the Dream Hunter series.
Dream Hunter is a story that won me over, with these charming characters, a story line that is packed with adventure, greek gods, and a romance that is bound to captivate you.
Tengo sentimientos encontrados. Por una parte, he odiado a Arik mucho en este libro. Por otro, ahí estaba parte de la gracia xD Como este libro está tan alejado en el tiempo, me cuesta conectar con la historia pero también me ha servido para enterarme de más cosas sobre Aquerón, y los Oníricos y toda su familia (aunque menudo lío). Creo que no ha estado mal, pero no es el mejor (aunque ha habido demasiados feels con el capítulo 20).Reseña completa en:http://mislibrosestanaqui.blogspot.co...
I liked this one, got more into the Greek Mythology and more about the Gods. I knew of some of them (yes even this Disney freak watched Hercules) but this book gets more into the gods then the previous books that just touched on them. Good read and really good to hear more about the stories and who did what to whom because they were made at someone else...Whoo don't ever piss off an Olympic god
3.5
Mas isso está a mudar, a maldição de Zeus está a fraquejar e eles estão a começar a sentir novamente… Este livro é um retorno no tempo, é passado no ano de 1996, na Grécia, onde Megeara irá fazer tudo para encontrar a Atlântida e limpar o nome do seu pai e conhecemos também Arik, um skotos que se sente atraído pelos sentimentos que Megeara transmite através dos seus sonhos.
Neste livro podemos ver pela primeira vez Solin, que é meio-irmão de Arik e por isso odiado pelos deuses (eles odeiam mestiços, pois a mãe de Solin era humana), ZT, um Chthonian que apesar do seu duro trabalho demostra nutrir algum sentimento pela raça humana.
I understood that the Dream Hunters were cursed to lack emotions, but it left so much of the book dry and without any sort of...spark.
Not the Dream Hunters, but instead the brief glimpse into the Dark Hunters we get there at the end before the madness of Kyrian's book begins.
To see Nick, Kyrian and Ash before the Spathis eff everything up.
But mostly it's Nick and Ash. Oh, and Hades and Persephone.
Because come on, it's Hades and I want the Big, Bad God of the Dead to miss me that much.
