https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29997.Complete_Novels
This Library of America Volume N° 110 contains the following five Hammett novels: 1.
Red Harvest (January 2011) 2.
The Dain Curse (May 11, 2012)3.
The Maltese Falcon (March 2011)4.
The Thin Man (March 21, 2011)I read all five of these novels between January 2011 and May 2012.
They were fantastic, but I wasn't super engaged in review writing.
I've hyper-linked to my individual reviews for your viewing pleasure.
I might need to go back and review Red Harvest and flesh-out, re-read all five of these novels again.
I've been contemplating devoting one whole year to only doing re-reads.
(No) Anyway, hoping to get back to Hammett soon, maybe pepper some Sherlock or other stuff in between here.THE DAIN CURSE - started 01/28/2012, finished 02/01/2012.
I haven't seen the movie of this one in awhile - I'll have to check'r out sometime soon.THE GLASS KEY - started 01/02/2013, finished 01/03/2013.
Allegedly this was Hammett's favorite of his own novels, but I also hear he wanted to burn every copy of all of 'em toward the end of his life.THE THIN MAN - started 01/04/2013, finished 01/05/2013.
A lovely read start-to-finish, even if I knew whodunit (and/or what-he-dun) the whole time.
(I think it's not a coincidence that nobody made more Sam Spade movies, but Nick and Nora had a very long life in Hollywood, even if in warped form.)So. Dashiell Hammett, generally considered the founder of the hard-boiled mystery genre.
Although I did not like Sam Spade at all, I ended up feeling compassion for him, but Ned Beaumont, the protagonist of The Glass Key (and Hammett always uses his name that way, "Ned Beaumont," throughout the entire damn novel, possibly to really whack the hammer down on the ALIENATION key), was just kind of loathsome.
Red Harvest: 5 starsThe Dain Curse: 4.5 starsThe Maltese Falcon: 5 starsThe Glass Key: 4.5 starsThe Thin Man: 5 starsHighly recommended
Hammett wrote all five of these seminal novels in a very brief period, beginning in 1927 and completing The Thin Man in 1933.
Red Harvest is the story of the violent purging of civic corruption of a small California mining town.
Beaumont is a memorable tough guy; one with it seems a masochistic streak as he repeatedly takes massive beatings only to rise again as soon as conscious to entertain more of the same.
Novel Nick is not as charming or as comic as Movie Nick.
I was surprised to learn that Hammett wrote only five novels and only one of them had Sam Spade as a character.
He is credited with being the creator, or one of them, of the hard boiled detective figure.
Well, I enjoyed the books but more from a historical perspective.
The detectives were certainly heavy smoking, hard drinkers (always with a flask in the pocket and a cigarette dangling from the lips) and obviously had a liking for the ladies.
Hammett's descriptions of his characters' physical appearance and surroundings was meticulously detailed but never tedious or boring.
And I think all of them made better movies than books.
“The outcome of successful planning always looks like luck to saps.”This collects all five of Dashiell Hammett’s novels. The first two feature an unnamed operative of the San Francisco office of the Continental Detective Agency. The third is Sam Spade in The Maltese Falcon, the fourth is a gangster/detective solving a mystery sort of for his boss, the crime lord who runs the town, and the fifth is Nick and Nora in The Thin Man.It is possible that I have read some Hammett short stories before, b
The third is Sam Spade in The Maltese Falcon, the fourth is a gangster/detective solving a mystery sort of for his boss, the crime lord who runs the town, and the fifth is Nick and Nora in The Thin Man.It is possible that I have read some Hammett short stories before, but I have never read any of these novels until now.
This was mostly just hinted until the final story, The Thin Man, which is more clear about ages and relationships.Nick and Nora do another thing that I mostly only see in old movies: they go to sleep after 5 a.m. and get up somewhat before 5 p.m.After reading these stories, it is no wonder that Hammett was such an influence on the mystery genre.
Nicely bound collection
Complete Novelsby Dashiell HammettThere are five novels in this collection; Red Harvest, The Dain Curse, The Maltese Falcon, The Glass Key & finally, The Thin Man. The first two feature the anonymous detective of the Continental Op Detective Agency.
The Maltese Falcon features Sam Spade, The Glass Key "tells the story of gambler and racketeer Ned Beaumont".
Of all the characters in these stories, i think Ned is probably my favourite & i may well read The Glass Key sometime in the future, as i have an eBook copy.
Red Harvest is a revolutionary novel that more or less invented hardboiled detective fiction.
Other lesser writers like John Carrol Daly had their own hardboiled dicks but Hammett was the real deal: a Pinkerton op who had seen the sleazy side of corporate greed and dedicated the rest of his life to criticizing it in his fiction and as a member of the Communist party.
Hammett's intelligent use of detective fiction to critique power was eventually embraced by later writers like Chandler and Macdonald while Daly's ham-fisted brutality found its supporters in Spillane and any number of later-day knock-offs.
I picked it up again recently after exchanging tweets with Hannah about this piece in The Toast, and decided to reread The Dain Curse, the Hammett novel I remembered least well.
In my memory it was weirder than it is -- I suspect the phony-occult aspects stood out more because they seemed so unusual to me then (the more I read 30s and 40s detective fiction, of course, the more I understood that as a part of the genre).
In this, the second Continental Op novel, our nameless detective keeps being drawn back to the mysterious goings-on surrounding a young women who is convinced that she carries a family curse and is evil.
It's well-plotted and a lot of fun, unsurprisingly; Hammett never disappoints.
Any of these books make a good read, but they aren't fine literature in the sense that Raymond Chandler is fine literature.
Hammett's first psychological novel, "The Dain Curse," is over thought, but compelling, while his second attempt, "The Thin Man," falls all over itself and the random tawdriness of the protagonists distracts from the plot at large.
Lots of red herrings, none of which are remotely compelling.
Hammett's Sam Spade has half the soul of Chandler's Marlowe and a quarter the soul of Hammett's own heartless, nameless Trans-Continental Detective Agency operative starring in the majority of his short stories.Hammett's take on sex is not for the faint of heart, for the record, it's hardboiled, soulless, and sometimes stomach churning for something that never occurs "on page."
I own this very book in hardback and have read it a couple of times.
It's a very nice book with Bible-style pages.
They are thin and prone to smudging so turn those pages carefully if you ever get yourself a copy.
Hammett is probably one of my favourite writers of dialogue.
I've grown up since then (only by a couple of years though).
I someday want to write hardboiled stories just to flirt with the dialogue.
In fact Hammett was probably responsible for making me appreciate dialogue as an important aspect of storytelling.

Another San Fran impulse purchase. But come on, how many times can you buy a book from City Lights? I HAD to pick something up there, and I thought it was only appropriate to pay homage to a fella who not only left his mark on detective/crime writing but who also made the city such a huge part of his novels. (We actually ate at John's Grill - one of the settings in Maltese Falcon - while we were there - it was SO good!)
Hammett is a master of the genre. I like his prose better than the other father of hardboiled crime, Raymond Chandler. It's nice, straight-to-the-point, and unadorned, though it avoids being staid or boring. There's a nice energy to it. I wasn't as impressed with The Dain Curse or The Glass Key, but Red Harvest, The Maltese Falcon, and The Thin Man are all excellent.
Finished Red Harvest 05/18, the Continental Op in Personville (Poisonville), CA.
05/21 The Dain Curse Continental Op again w/scientific escaped con father, warped step mother and strangely attractive, addicted & bewildered daughter.
Also a religious scam.
05/22 finished The Maltese Falcon.
Sam Spade is ruthless, frequently amoral and treats women like dirt, but solves crimes the police find baffling.
05/24 finished The Glass Key. Ned Beaumont also is a babe magnet as well as the deeper thinking part of a political machine in a small city.
An inventor, mistresses, gangsters, molls, a totally disfunctional family, policemen, and speakeasies all in New York city.
Red HarvestDate I read this book: July 2nd, 2013★★★*Special Content only on my blog, Strange and Random Happenstance during Golden Summer (May-September 2013)The Continental Op has arrived in Personville, being sent by the Continental Detective Agency's San Francisco office for their new client Donald Willsson.
The Continental Op approaches Elihu Willsson, Donald's father, to try to get to the bottom of his client's premature demise by lead being pumped into him.
Reading Red Harvest, I was easily swept up into the Noir style, I could almost hear the first person narration as a gritty voice over as the Continental Op walked through Poisonville planning his next move.
The Maltese Falcon - I feel I should have liked it more than I did, but not so. The Pacific OP, I find, more enjoyable. This one seemed like a little disjointed with a lot of filling in blanks by the reader. I did like Sam's attitude and some of the dialogue was crisp. Also the fact that it was written in a time when this type of writing was rare and risky, is amazing. But, it still didn't really click. I feel kind of bad making theses comments but...
The stories were sharp, the patter was unique. I found the prose a little dense for my tastes, and I sometimes got confused, but I can see why these books were popular. "The Maltese Falcon" stood out to me. Readable.
Classic crime novels from 1920's and 30's.These would be good for a sociologist to study for its mores, lingo, and manners of interactions.Theme in the books: Many complicated goings-on with many betrayals.Sometimes there was too much explication and not enough action.
MPLDetails lost in move to GR. Second Hammett book. Boy could he write. And I have seen most if not all of the movies made from his works.
What a wonderful volume of Hammett's novels. It was a real pleasure ready all these tremendous novels back-to-back in a beautifully crafted hardcover volume.
Finally completed! Red Harvest and Maltese Falcon great. The Curse and Glass Key nothing to brag about. Thumbs down The Thin Man.
My only previous experience with Dashiell Hammett (apart from the classic films made from his movies) was a short story featuring The Continental Op. I was a little surprised at the amount of dry wit that was mixed among the wisecracks - some of the humor is very nuanced.
It's a good story but I think both RED HARVEST and THE GLASS KEY (also told in third person narrative) are much better.
This is such a good book. All five stories are full of strong characters and brilliant dialogue. The plots are well put together. The strength of the books are when people are talking to each other. Highly recommended
Half-boiled--I only read Red Harvest and The Maltese Falcon in this collection, and thought they were mediocre stories written in clumsy prose at best.Red Harvest was too melodramatic for my taste with too many murders, its narrative momentum relying solely on the plot that gets repetitive and exhausting after a little while.
Also I thought Hammett's prose to be clunky and overwrought in many places, e.g.:"He [Sapde] put his right arm under the boy's arm and around his back, put his left forearm under the boy's knees, lifted him without apparent effort, and carried him to the sofa."Um...
When I finished The Dain Curse, I had read all of Hammett’s novels at some point of my life.
As noted below, they are not great novels (except for The Maltese Falcon), but great reads.
It was probably the second noir novel I ever read, after The Maltese Falcon.
Red Harvest lacked the interesting characters and tightly wound plot of the other novel.
It’s not as good as The Maltese Falcon, but it is still a good read.
Even more than the exotic plot (which, honestly, doesn’t make sense at times), the characters sparkle with life and mystery.
I'd put the five Hammett novels into two tiers: at the top, and in best-first order, are Red Harvest, the Glass Key, and The Maltese Falcon, and next down are The Dain Curse and The Thin Man. The Thin Man is the weakest, I think, because of its semi-serious assortment of oddball characters and situations.
There's at least one scene in Red Harvest that went straight into "Blood Simple" (the Coen brothers movie) and similarly, "The Glass Key" is all over the Coen's "Miller's Crossing." Today it's hard to read The Maltese Falcon without hearing Bogart et al (although, really, that's not such a bad thing).Highly recommended.
Right now, I'm just reading Red Harvest for an online book discussion, but will probably get to the others at some point.Red Harvest by Dashiell Hammett was the first novel featuring The Continental Op, a detective working for a concern not unlike Hammett's own former employer, the Pinkertons.
However, I still felt I didn't quite understand his character by the end of the book.The Continental Op arrives in Personville (a thinly-disguised Butte, Montana) at the behest of the local newspaper editor, son of the richest man in town.
I do recommend it, but I'll probably have more to report once I've read the other Hammett books in this volume.
