https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3371792-selected-essays
The first time I read a Woolf novel (Mrs Dalloway) I screamed.
I had to read more of her work, so from there on I decided I must read each and every one of her novels until I eventually returned to Mrs Dalloway.
I’ve learnt quite a lot from reading Woolf’s fiction, and even more from reading these essays.
Woolf argues that just because something is naturally hard to read, it doesn’t give us a right to criticise it based on this single point.
Such is the nature of her form of modernism.
Discussion of Virginia Woolf's essays on YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kLDLB...
What I like most about her essays is the way she wrote it.
The details were crafted in such a way that even the most trifle occurrence or what most people wouldn't even notice that happened right in front of them, were described in detail.
Having only to have read a few of her short stories, of course I figured that she would implement her style of writing in her essays as well.
Especially the ones about London atmosphere.
They always took me back to the week when I visited London for a week in December 2015.
Yes, she can be painfully condescending at times, even (especially?) when making sincere attempts to empathise with the poor.
But it is the nature of the form that the essayist's foibles are magnified, and always behind it there lies that determination to capture the free play of the mind in all its contradictions - alloyed always by an awareness that this attempt can never fully succeed, and is likely to affect the observed mind even in so far as it does.
Here Woolf is most free, most perspicacious, and most herself.This edition betrays a particularly severe case of a disease seemingly endemic in the modern OUP - a cancer of the footnotes.
Virginia Woolf's essays are delightful. Even better, perhaps, after reading  The Years , because they resonated so much with the thoughts that the novel provoked in me about that struggle for certainty and voice, the feeling of being unable to feel or think clearly, to communicate. Most fascinating of all, is that in this struggle over what the novel should do, how a novel should be written and read, the role of the author -- Virginia Woolf, it turns out, has most decided opinions and a great cl
Most fascinating of all, is that in this struggle over what the novel should do, how a novel should be written and read, the role of the author -- Virginia Woolf, it turns out, has most decided opinions and a great clarity about the necessary uncertainty of modern writing.It's such a strange juxtaposition of security and insecurity.There is this lovely passage on writing the stream of consciousness, capturing thus the feel and experience of our moments as they shift and change and vanish:Look within and life, it seems, is very far from being 'like this'.
Although I didnt read exactly this edition of the book, it is the closer I can get here on Goodreads to the Slovak edition I read. It consisted mostly of literary essays. First and foremost I gotta mention that I absolutely love Virginia Woolf with an almost undiscerning passion which, I fear, prevents me from maintaining an objective tone on this. She was possibly the biggest literary woman genius in the UK as far as my opinion goes. Yet I cant say the same about her essays as I would about her
The reasons Woolf seems to give to support her arguments about certain literary works are pretty vague and can be subject to many other interpretations, in my opinion.
She certainly was a bright lass, to say the least, but at some point I couldn´t help but think she is just "expressing her opinion" without any relevant arguments to back it up actually.
Nevertheless, this did not keep me from reading through all the essays in the book in two days, in a manner so passionate that one would think I was reading a detective story or something.
Scratch everything I've ever read. This is point zero. This is where it all begins. Virginia Woolfe, still relevant 80 years later, still inspiring me to think for myself, trust myself, accept nothing and question the make-up of the world and my mind's eye. How Should One Read a Book?; Thoughts on Peace in an Air Raid;The Modern Essay. So far so mesmerisingly mind-blowing.
I had to rush this because of academic commitments -- but brilliant stuff. Woolf's essays are extremely perceptive while being enjoyable. But we already knew that, didn't we?
Have read half of the essays, will return in due time. Interesting but not much further to say at the moment.
Full of hope and help if you are trying to write; a good companion to her journals and novels as well.
A very good selection of essays that allow one to understand more about Woolf as an author as well as the factors which may have influenced her writing.
I've just finished "Thoughts on Peace in an Air Raid." Written with great insight.
… Era zvelt, sprinten, cu ochii ca niște pietre linse.”„Lapin și Lapinova” – despre efortul sortit eșecului de a da sens unei căsătorii, punînd imaginația la lucru.„Moștenirea” – ca jurnal conținînd mărturisirea infidelității.„Doamna din oglindă” – în afară de poanta finală, similară povestirilor „Un roman nescris”… - menționate mai sus, rețin ideea de viață proprie a camerei, independentă de viața în oglindă, statică, corozivă.„Oamenii nu ar trebui să-și lase oglinzile să atârne în odăi.””Clipe de viață” sau „Acele de la merceria Slater nu au vârf.” – despre fascinația pe care o poate exercita o persoană asupra alteia; construcția schiței îmi amintește cel mai mult de stilul scriitoarei din romanul „Spre far”.„Recapitulare” – despre desfășurarea unei minți umile și inocente găzduite de un trup maiestuos între universul solid, protejat, al unei case clădite pe un teren smuls naturii și promiscuitatea și pragmatismul orașului (Londra ca „găleată”).„Partida de vînătoare” – decăderea unei familii de nobili de țară, prin simpla descriere a unei partide de vînătoare, pe teren și în casa unde sînt așteptați vînătorii.„În odaie era curent.
"Life is not a series of gig lamps symmetrically arranged; life is a luminous halo, a semi-transparent envelope surrounding us from the beginning of consciousness to the end."  -Modern Fiction To write like Virginia Woolf is to possess some preternatural, divinely-endowed insight into the unexplored depths of ordinary lives, which is far more vivacious, imaginatively restless, and offering an infinitude of artistic and humanist possibilities if one thought, sympathized, and observed long and ha
-Modern Fiction To write like Virginia Woolf is to possess some preternatural, divinely-endowed insight into the unexplored depths of ordinary lives, which is far more vivacious, imaginatively restless, and offering an infinitude of artistic and humanist possibilities if one thought, sympathized, and observed long and hard enough.
Even though her subjects may seem distant to her common reader, they seem and read like characters in a novel, whether the working women at the Guild, Strachey, Austen, or her father.
My favorites include Modern Fiction, How One Should Read a Book?, Craftsmanship  (sections of which are narrated by Woolf in her only surviving voice recording), everything from "Women and Fiction", and Street Haunting - A London Adventure.
This is a great read for VW’s fans or anyone who is interested in her work, or is looking for an introduction to her writing.
They are a lot easier to read than her novels or even short stories and really do her justice as one of the most intelligent and original writers of her time.
I liked how the essays were thematically grouped.
They complement anyone’s reading of VW’s novels marvellously.
The editor’s introduction for this collection of essays begins by saying that introductions to VW’s work are not necessary, and then ambles for 30 pages of useless drivel.
Sublime. VW's essays are a tapestry of ideas beautifully crafted into words. These essays are art.
Woolf writes beautifully, and some of the essays were fascinating, but most were simply boring.
As someone else already said, these essays make a good companion to her novels.Some absolutely brilliant stuff here, especially those on writing. Then some I just didn't enjoy that much.
I bought this copy of Woolf's 'Selected Essays' in my first year of undergrad, but I never had the time to read more than a few of them.
This section includes the biography of Woolf's own father and the marvelous essay 'On Being Ill' ) 3.
In an incredibly truncated summary 'Street Haunting: A London Adventure) is an essay upon the art of noticing, seeing and observing.) In short, this edition of selected essays by Virginia Woolf is a must-read for anyone with the slightest interest in her work or in the art of writing literature.
Mrs. Brown Much more like straight-up realist fiction than her actual fiction - short, declarative sentences.
It's clear she is grappling with being more at the innovative and broad-minded end of the spectrum, and she has real gems of insight into writing and making a life out of writing.
I particularly like "granite and rainbow" but also, she talks about recording the atoms as they fall, which explains the pain-staking minutiae she includes in her writing - not necessarily a bad thing, but definitely makes you heighten your powers of concentration when you're reading her.
In class, we particularly zeroed in on the parts about Character in Fiction; and Mr. Bennett and Mrs. Brown.
http://nwhyte.livejournal.com/2513204.htmlA classic selection of non-fiction by Woolf, in four sections: writing about literature, writing about life and death, writing about women, and observational pieces. It's all very good, and each section has a standout piece. "Character in Fiction" has a very entertaining passage comparing British, French and Russian writers. Her obituary of her father is moving and lucid. Her essay on "Women and Fiction" hopes for better days to come. And the observational pieces are all great, with the best being "Street Haunting", which converts buying a new pencil into an epiphany. All recommended.
