https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/528194.Slacks_and_Calluses
People were all over the bombers, popping in and out of the nose, walking along the top of the fuselage, working on the high platforms under the wings, sticking their heads out the side windows, sliding flat under the belly, climbing up and down the ladder into the tail, ducking in and out from underneath, so that the bombers looked like sleeping Gullivers overrun by the people of Lilliput."An interesting aspect of life on the home front touched upon in the book that I found revealing was the change in gender roles and perceptions brought on by women working in the defense plants.
As a female aircraft mechanic myself (swing shift I might add), I found a lot of pleasure in this book.
The Rosie the Riveters, in my opinion, are the the most brave, courageous women of that time.
The backordered parts, the war of day shift versus swing, the way men treat women like women one minute and a fellow the next (whatever suits their cause at the moment), and last, but not least, the aches and pains that come with the physical labor...
I would like to add that the author, Constance, wrote very well and made wonderfully witty remarks and I loved her sarcasm throughout the book.
Being from Washington state we all thought this would be about making airplanes at The Boeing Company in Seattle.
The weirdest part of the book the Introduction was 10 pages long and after reading it there was little reason to read the rest of the book.
It was the Cliff notes for the book even thought the book is only 181 pages long.
I worked for The Boeing Company for many years as a secretary, I was out in the factory a lot, so I understood much of what the authors described.
It was a fun little book to read.
Most important advice--skip the Introduction!!!!!This book was absolutely delightful! It was written and illustrated by two teachers who spent their summer vacation in 1943 working in an aircraft plant. It is an excellent first-hand account of what work was like for "unskilled" female workers.The Introduction isn't a true introduction. It reads more like a college book report with tons of quotes from the book. The introduction ruins the humor and the whole story. I'm glad I didn't read it until I'd finished the book. It would have ruined it for me.
Fun read - as described, two schoolteachers spend a summer working in a bomber factory in San Diego during World War II.
They started the job with the intention of writing a book about it, and published the book while the war was ongoing, so they were taking copious notes through the whole process.
They also discovered quickly that the way men treated them and the deference which they were used to receiving was, in fact, down to the fact that they were respectable schoolteachers in skirts and pumps.
In their factory coveralls?
This was a book packed with wit, feelings and details of the day to day life of the "Rosie the Riveter" women during WWII.
The reader gets a glimpse into what its like for the women who work in the factories, thus wearing slacks, many for the first time.
They put up with how society treats them just because they are wearing slacks, even though they are "doing their bit for the war".
Rather than thanking them, they suddenly become second class citizens.
This book should be required reading for any history class.
This was a very informative read about the war effort on the home front during WW2, but it also offered a glimpse into the very real lives of the men and women who constructed the ships that helped win the war. This book was also surprisingly funny at times. Definitely recommend, no way to go wrong with this short read,
Very interesting!A great insight into how it was...an education in itself. So glad that this has been done to support our history.
Fun read. Interesting and humeous look of women working on building bombers during 1943. Written in 1944, it clearly showed how women were treated and regarded in the work force,
(All-caps theirs.) Turns out to be as grubby, uncomfortable and boring work as any job you've ever held-- and the people they wind up working with are a lot like coworkers you know.
I like them so much, and am grateful that they shared their experience so charmingly.The authors also succeed at doing that thing that is so valuable yet so difficult in personal history: relating those everyday details that made their time different from ours.
They had always believed that their personal dignity had fended off such wolffish attentions, and suddenly it appeared that that dignity resided in the ladylike frocks and hats (and little white gloves, of course) that they were wearing.
Although I read about the lives of women several hundred years ago, or in far away countries, I tend to forget about the struggles of American women in this century.The author's take on her situation and her deep-down patriotism were inspiring.
She writes as she spoke back then, and while some of her observations seem very dated now, they are clearly sincere.A quick read from a perspective I'd never considered, I gained more respect for the contributions of the country as a whole during WWII.
Worth reading just for the interesting perspective of a woman of the period stepping out of her "respectable" high heels, and into the slacks and boots of a lower-class she'd never considered before.
I am SO curious about life on the American home front during World War II.
I have been searching for books that will give me a glimpse of what it was like to cope with rationing, the terrifying news from abroad, women venturing out into work for the first time, etc.
I thought this book might be just the ticket, but I was somewhat disappointed to find that it really ONLY described the work life of two women in a bomber factory.
The story was told in a very technical way, with little insight into the protagonist's home life or thoughts/feelings about the war.
This memoir about a summer vacation spent building aircraft "bombers" for WWII is a great introduction to that era and the role of women at that time.
The authors uses humor to tell their story of the adjustment they faced as schoolteachers, who decided to help the war effort by taking a job assemblying these large machines.
Without mechanical skills, these physically challenging, dirty jobs were hard to understand and often performed in uncomfortable locations inside the bombers.
This short, quick read is a window into another era.
Skip the introduction and jump right into the book like I did when I read an original 1944 edition.
We are probably most of us aware of Rosie the Riveter and that women joined the workforce in large numbers in WWII to build the materials needed to win the war.
This is a look into what it actually felt like to go work on the line building the machines of war.
And how did society react to women in the workforce like never before?
You can tell that the author would be delightful to sit down over a cup of coffee and talk about her experiences with.
A warm and engaging tale of two friends working in a factory over their summer break.
This book is an absolutely wonderful portal into the lives of two hilariously witty school-teachers working in a bomber factory in a very new social environment. Aside from its comical value, it is also an invaluable peek this society so very different from our own. It seems like the men didn't know what to do with the women in the factories, and the women didn't know what to do with either the men or themselves in this awkward new social group of factory-working women.Absolutely, one hundred percent recommended!
This true experience of two teachers who spend a summer working in a bomber factory during World War II is charming and amusing. I did get bogged down by all the detail of the planes and the technical writing about the manufacturing process. I also had a hard time keeping up with who was who since the author wrote about so many different people. Still, I enjoyed much of it and felt at times I was actually there. My favorite bits were the descriptions of the scrapes that the author and her friend get into. Delightful! Three and half stars.
Because of the manpower shortage during World War II, aircraft factories recruited schoolteachers to work summer vacations. Reid and her friend C.M. signed up to build B-24's, despite neither having any familiarity with tools. But they built planes (known as "ships" on the assembly line) with the help of a collection of somewhat strange characters and their own determination. Written at the time, this book provides a sense of immediacy in its look back at an earlier period.
I absolutely loved this book. I had juststarted to get into WWII and the homefront issues and this was the best window into the minds of females at the time. Very brave, courageous women who did what had to be done and enjoyed life to the fullest. Wish I could have met them.
This was such a fun book. I found it at my library one of the first editions. Two teachers are using the summer to build bombers to help the war effort. You get to see a different side to the war and I found it fascinating to learn about the bombers. It also has cute illustrations.
A fascinating topic, but unfortunately not that fascinating of a take on it. Or maybe I wasn't in the mood? Or maybe I wish I had read the original edition? In any case, I'm glad I found it, but also glad it was relatively brief. Much of a muchness in the genre.
This book was historically interesting. It definitely captures an era. The writing was very simple and informal.
Informative but i was expecting a story with a little more plot.
read for school.
A real Rosie the Riveter.
Interesting!
A delightful read!
Charming, quick, contemporary account of working on a B-24 production line during WWII.
I quick read. You're not going to learn anything new from this book, but it was a nice read if you are into that era.
