https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/176534.High_Wizardry
Which means soon she is computing her way to and through outer space, with each jump getting progressively farther and farther from home until she's in another galaxy -- with her danger growing at each jump.Nita and Kit and their mentor wizards' red and blue macaw, Picchu (wizards' pets get strange over time, and Picchu is something of a sibyl) more or less to the rescue, but by the time they catch up with Dairene, she is on the verge of having things pretty much under control.
Sure she's bratty, and a know it all but beneath all that she's a good person who's navigating her way through life (and secretly wants to be like her big sister, Nita).
I really enjoyed seeing her develop and learn that she's not always the smartest person in the room.Aside from Dairine's story, Duane manages to weave in incredibly complicated wizard-esque technology (unfortunately, most of it isn't real in real life) and further expand upon the wizarding world she created in the first two books.
This is Book 3 of Diane Duane's Wizard series, and like the first two books, it is very well written, containing serious and dramatic elements, believable descriptions of wizardry, and a spiritual or philosophical element running throughout.
I think I liked the first two a bit better, though not because they were better books--I think I just preferred the adventures the main characters, Nita and Kit, went on.
evil plots and young magic-makers, but it really isn't; I believe the books were written before HP, and the feel of the series is also quite different.
As a geek, this will inevitably always be my favourite of the series, which makes my rating slightly less that useful here.
(It should only merit 4 stars really...)From the opening sequence (which brought back memories of our own first computer arriving!) through to the moment of the Choice, the story fairly rattles along, even if it is a bit too easy to see that the whole Nita/Kit storyline is rather redundant (other than for the "family" subtext.) But pretty much the whole of Darine's experience on the planet is fantastic and even though the outcome can never be in doubt, the journey there is genuinely thought-provoking.And this book expands the universe quite significantly, introducing the Crossings and also expanding on the idea of the Avatar, both of which are key parts of the series in the future.
A great entry in a very consistent series.
Yes, the protagonists are kids, and Dairine especially acts like a self-centered brat for much of this book.
And the kids learn important life lessons, like how not to strangle your little sister, or how to tell a boy you kind of like him like that, alongside the fantastical and sci-fi elements of magic and traveling the galaxy and going up against your own personal Vader.
I'm really hoping this doesn't become a thing throughout the whole series and at some point we do get this, because Kit deserves as much attention as Nita and Dairine and their family get.
The MC is an over confident know-it-all whiny little brat!
She literally knows everything without needing to learn it, despite being so small.The philosophy and life lessons that I loved so much in the second book are reduced to: the worst thing that can happen is having dogs burn in cars!
Not children or other people getting killed but dogs!!
And we should do anything to save those dogs!
I'm done with this series!
It's just not worth my time.
Would I want my kids to read it?
It's a series meant for a young audience after all.Hell no!
Nita's younger sister, Dairine, can be a bit of a know-it-all brat sometimes.
Understandable, since I don't know anyone who wouldn't want to perform magic.She starts poking around Nita's stuff, getting more and more intrusive (much to Nita's annoyance), and eventually finds the Wizard's Oath page in her manual.
It had Dairine's main story, it had Nita and Kit's story chasing after her, it had battles, it had Creation, it had 'Heaven', it had philosophy, it had space ports, it had aliens, it had...more that I won't get into...
Frankly, I found the amount of material a bit daunting for one book.I have to admit, I did not like Dairine at all during my first time reading this.
High Wizardry is probably my least favorite of the Young Wizards series. It was a fun, fast read, but much of the story seemed rather extraneous. Large portions of the narrative are taken up with unnecessary descriptions of an outdated OS, most of which I could have done without, and overall it simply lacks the same quality of layering as in  So You Want to Be a Wizard  and  Deep Wizardry . As a result, it didn't even seem like anything important started happening until around the latter third o
But more than that, I've become so invested in their ongoing adventures through the first two books, and in their struggles against the Big Bad, that I felt rather cheated by Duane making them little more than a sideshow in Dairine's Ordeal circus, especially considering that this appeared to be such a critical turning point in the fight against the Lone Power.That being said, I actually loved the latter fourth of the book.
Not just because Dairine takes about ten levels in badass and lays the smack-down on the Lone Baddie--although that is pretty awesome--but largely because it's such a powerful story of change and redemption.
She doesn't have to know anything, she doesn't have to understand anything, she doesn't have to think, or learn, or practice, or empathize, or collect totems, or do any of the other myriad sensible things that Duane created as aspects of the wizardry of this series.
More laziness: offscreen, so to speak, Kit's family was told about his wizardry for the first time, were made to properly understand it, accept it, be wary/proud, and allow him to head off for more of it, in a matter of minutes.
Although the story mainly revolves around two girls, I think that boys would enjoy this book too because of its high paced action.
With this series, I lost interest after the fifth book(Hey, that's odd.
This book was not like that.
Unlike the rest of the series, this book is much more sci-fi than fantasy, mainly because almost the whole thing involves being on some other planet.
I know this is a bit stereotypical, but if you consider yourself a "geek", you will most likely enjoy this book because of all the computer programming references.
Oh crud.
I think I might not be reading anything else for a little while.I have a Leetle Wixxard addiction, and I am not sure if I need to get a life or not, or even if I want one.Oh my god, Dairine and the turtlethings, though.
Oh man.I was absolutely delighted by this book, and by finding out that it is possible to have a younger sister character who, if powerful (a fair enough reason is provided), doesn't turn into another insufferable Dawn Summers character.
I really enjoy their dynamic and there are some hints in this book that suggest some changes in their partnership may be coming about.
Hmmmm...Already about 50 pages into the next book.
Diane Duane continues to astound me with this series.
As in the previous two books, the classic archetype of Good versus Evil is played out with such raw emotion in the climax that you'll be swept right into the wizardry.
I think there is a part of all of us that approaches life with cold, calculating logic and it isn't until we acknowledge our humanity and weaknesses that we can truly overcome them and turn our knowledge into a real force for good.
Dang it, Ms Duane, you've made me philosophical again!
Then again, its because her books resonate so deeply that I keep reading them...
;) I'm gonna have to acquire the next book in the series.
It seems like every book in this series can make me cry.
And yet, while full conflict and darkness, you could say that the books are mostly about joy.
About life and living.In this one, Nita's smartmouth little sister has taken the oath and become a wizard.
Because of reasons, she gets a computer rather than a book as a manual.
Instead of spells having to be carefully prepared and checked and so on, the computer does the calculations, making magic simple for her.
Misadventures befall her as does genuine life-snuffing danger.
Is she smart enough to solve this?Tremendously good book.
I enjoyed this probably more than SO YOU WANT TO BE A WIZARD but not as much as DEEP WIZARDRY. I appreciate Dairine more than I explicitly like her, so the focus on her through this was at times difficult. Since I'm more a "characters and relationships" fan than a "huge plotty world building" fan, this at times dragged a bit to me. It was reallllllly conceptually cool, though, and it definitely feels like a shifting point for the series as a whole.
Nita's younger sister, Dairine, has always been precocious -- and now she's become one of the youngest and most powerful wizards out there. Now she's gone off half-cocked into the universe, and it's up to Kit and Nita to track her down before the Lone Power does. In some ways this book was slightly dated; Dairine's Wizard's Manual takes the form of a computer, and a lot of the computer stuff is clearly primitive. Other than that, though, it's a great story.
My mom sent this as a book my 10 yo daughter might like. It sat there for a month before I grabbed it, just to check it out. I devoured it in 75 minutes, enjoying it immensely. My daughter loves it, too. It's just lovely, reminding me of A Wrinkle in Time and Harry Potter with more hard science thrown in.
It's a good story, but as usual it ended way too abruptly for my tastes. I want an epilogue. I want to see the explanations and the reactions of her parents and Tom and Carl to everything that's happened. For that matter, why didn't we get to meet Kit's family and see him explaining that he's a wizard? I feel cheated when it all happens off page.
I am really enjoying this series.Every book so far has been vastly different from its predecessors. This one being more sci-fi than fantasy.Last few chapters of the book got very philosophical, much to my surprise.Overall, I am really enjoying this series and look forward to continuing it.
A series with a good premise told from the POV of a whiny, bratty little girl.
It’s a cop-out that is becoming awfully repetitive in this series.Dairine is a problem, too – she reads like a self-insert Mary Sue. She is just too smart, too self-reliant, too all-around fabulous and special to be remotely likeable.
Like most Mary sues, although the original protagonists are still present in the book, Dairine completely pulls the focus of the book around her.Worst of all, even if you get over the inherent problems with the whole “silicon planet turns itself into a sentient supercomputer” plot, it’s just all a bit dull.I don’t think I will be finishing this series.
Much better to be vague about the details, rather than have your readers rolling on the floor in hysterical laughter only a few years later.Rather than focus on Nita and Kit, the newbie wizards of the previous two books, this one is about younger sister Dairine, a paragon of intellect and self-taught knowledge, who becomes a wizard too, and sets off into the universe armed only with a magic computer and a frighteningly high level of self-confidence.
Even though the author explains it away with an airy handwave - sometimes people do help out strangers - it still feels like a plot cheat.But eventually Dairine gets to somewhere more interesting, and Nita and Kit set off in pursuit and...
I enjoyed the magic, the plot, the characters, it was all such fun.This series isn't like, unpredictable WOAH.
I say, just let the story tell itself, and let it be what it is: A fun, magical adventure.That being said, these books can and have surprise me, even if the series cannot SHOCK me.Some might not like that this book's protagonist is (view spoiler)[ Dairine.
(view spoiler)[ I really liked the computer elements.
(hide spoiler)]So far this is hands down my favorite in the series and my fav is officially Dairine.I need book four ASAP.
I've been ambivalent about the updated versions of these stories.
This one, though, is a different story given the centrality of computers.
I'm not really sure the update works.
But it feels a lot clunkier for 2008.I'm also not really sold on the psychology of Dairine, who comes across at times as verging on sociopathic, in a way that I don't think was quite intended but really makes the idea of her taking on the wizard oath feel hard to believe.
I definitely think it would be possible to take that idea on in a serious way; I'm just not sure this book did it.
I first encountered the idea that young children are more powerful because they don't know what's impossible in Zenna Henderson's short story "Come on, Wagon".
I recognized from the start that Duane was setting herself up for a fall by basing her theories of future computers on what was then contemporary technology.
It's not surprising that a lot of the description comes off as dated.
I've always had this problem, and I don't think enough is done to alter the concept from one of physical struggle to one of mental argument.
But then, I don't think enough COULD be done, because it'd still remain an ethos of conflict and struggle.
Book 3 of the "Young Wizards" series.To recap: In books 1 and 2 of this series, Juanita Callahan and Christopher Rodriguez, junior-high-school students, acquired manuals that teach wizardry, became wizards, underwent an Ordeal, and saved the world twice (both times at great cost) from the "Lone Power," the Being that gave the multiverse entropy and death.
Along the way, they gave the Lone Power an option that It has not had before - the option to repent and rejoin the other Powers that Be. In book 2, Nita's family learned about her wizardry; her sister Dairine was, to put it mildly, jealous.In this volume, Dari acquires a manual of her own - in the form of a laptop computer.
This is the third book in the Wizardry series.
In this one Dairine takes the wizard's oath and sets off on her own ordeal, an ordeal which involves traveling to various planets, some of them far removed from our own galaxy, much less our own solar system.
Kit and Nita end up there to help her, though.It's a really good third book in the series, my favorite so far (but probably because I like astronomy so much.)
Nita's sister Dairine becomes a wizard too!
Much to Nita's dismay....
When they get a new Apple computer, she manages to clone it while her folks are still struggling to set it up - and it turns out to be her wizard's manual in laptop form, well before the days of laptops!
Dairine's Ordeal is quite a bit different from her sister's - she ends up creating silicon life on a different planet.
I enjoyed this book more than I did the second in the series, although they are ALL good!I read this book as part of the Support Your Local Wizard omnibus (q.v.).
I enjoyed this addition to the Young Wizards series.
This book spends a significant amount of time with Nita's sister, Dairine, and the new perspective as well as the new aspects of wizardry that the book portrays were definitely fresh and fun to read.
There were a few things that felt a little questionable (like how an elementary school student who was never allowed to even skip grades could understand and program living things via a computer) but I did like the more science-fiction settings of this one and the story-telling possibilities unlocked in the exploration of the universe left me wanting more.
"Those who refuse to serve the Powers, become the tools of the Powers. Those who agree to serve the Powers, themselves become the Powers."As a reader, I like this book because we have another amazing headstrong heroine, who's not your typical hero: she's a nerd. She's computer-savvy and tech-smart and tomboyish and just an awesome girl.As an older sibling, I'm annoyed because the younger sibling gets to go on an amazing adventure and Nita isn't the special one anymore. But I think that's just my oldest-child complex talking.
I liked it pretty well - there were *moments* of sharp bright goodness in it, and the AIs were oddly
