https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18405.Gone_with_the_Wind
Secondly, if you were going to parallel the beautiful, affluent, lazy, spirited South being conquered by the intellectual, industrious North, what better way to do that than with characters who embody those characteristics?
You come to feel a level of sadness that the South and Scarlett lost their war and hope that they will rebuild.I enjoyed the picture of pre-war South outside of what you learn in history class approved by the nation that won the war.
Turning from her ravenous post-war desire to survive to her acceptance of life and the people around her as the way they are, eventually Scarlett grows into the person she was meant to be.
I honestly do not know whether to give this book 5 stars for being one of the most completely engrossing, shocking, and emotionally absorbing pieces of literature ever written, or to give it 0 stars for being the most tragic, unendingly upsetting, disturbing book I've ever read.
Throughout the book, I frantically kept reading, often until 2am or later, just to see when it would turn around and start getting happy, but there was never any redemption - it NEVER got happy or uplifting.
Besides, I've found that, no matter how tragic and sometimes unlikeable the chartacters were, I am still thinking about them days after I finished reading.
At times I felt like maybe I shouldn't be enjoying a book featuring a sympathetic view of the South or feeling bad for those who struggled in their losses to the North.
However, the story was really interesting and I have seen a lot of people from a wide variety of races give this book 5 stars, so I believe it is generally acceptable to enjoy it for what it is with an understanding of the time period it was written.The writing: so great!
To write such a large book with a great story, symbolism, character development, etc.
There were two views to the new south- there was Ashley Wilkes who pined for Twelve Oaks and the way of life before the war and Rhett Butler who symbolizes the modern south and how Atlanta and the south rose again.
Behind Scarlett, Rhett, and Ashley and their dreams, we have Melanie Wilkes.
Scarlett's determination, Rhett's swarthy brashness, Ashley's love of time gone by, Melanie's heart.
I look forward to seeing the epic film for the first time and witnessing Scarlett and Rhett and Tara on screen.
All the memorable scenes are there, & the spotlit romance is considerably widened in scope, as is the sturdy social studies lesson on the almighty American Civil War. I mean, everyone has the basic idea correct: the South took a tremendous thrashing.
(Priceless is the mentioning of several ostentatious Atlanta parties with only the Yankee army 22 miles away…!
If there ever existed a valentine for a city in the elusive form of an epic historical romance, then it is this, for Atlanta!
Everyone, it seems, has fallen in love, which adds the hues of Romanticism to the epic Southern Myth.
In terms of the slave-holding society, the film actually toned-down the pro-South view of Reconstruction (Scarlett's second husband joined the KKK in the book) and Mammy remains probably one of the most fully-developed and likeable African-American characters from 1930 you'll read.
I appreciate it for the well built characters, smooth flow, and albeit romanticized- depiction of the Antebellum South.As far as being politically incorrect or the modern charges that the book is "racist," remember that this book was written in the 1930s.
Not to mention, the time period is the Civil War era!
This book mirrors the opinions held by the people alive and working at the time, no more and certainly no less.
I FINALLY FINISHED READING THE DAMN BOOK.I want my time back.There was a reason I never before read past the first 50 or 100 pages - Scarlet is a raging evil snarky miserable bitch and I hate her.
None of these characters really expressed the complexities or debated the moral dilemmas involved in surviving the Civil War. Scarlet was a whiny, conniving miserable human being and I don't give a crap if she "only did what she had to do as a woman." She didn't have to treat Ashley or Rhett or ANYONE the way she did, or she could have at least felt bad about it or something.
If Scarlett represented a segment of the South the way it was when the Civil War started, it was as a progressive segment that knew where it was headed: strong, determined, attractive, young, rich, bored (complacent), spoiled, unable to love those who truly understood her and loved her anyway (i.e. the North not wanting the South to leave, the South not loving the Union), doing anything to get her way or survive (even enslave a people or take advantage of chained-gang prison-workers)…ever so slowly changing, showing bravery, but learning too late how to change in time…Well then, the first sentence takes on a whole new meaning.
If I have to steal or kill--as God is my witness, I'm never going to be hungry again."Scarlett hated every moment of taking care of her family.
there are so many I can't even name them all and like I said before some were only in the book a few times.
I think if he really loved Scarlett for that long he should have told her and wooed her and then maybe things would have turned out differently.
I know most people have probably read the book or watched the movie a million times and already know but still.
At a distance great enough to keep the smoke away from the guests were the long pits where the meat cooked and the huge iron wash-pots from which the succulent odors of barbecue sauce and Brunswick stew floated." We get only this brief, wonderful glimpse of the luxurious life these people were living, and then the war starts and everything goes straight to hell, like an 1800's version of the The Road:"The gray troops passed by empty mansions, deserted farms, lonely cabins with doors ajar.
And then I never picked it up again until age 48 (that's 30 years of reading silence for those of you mathamatically inclined...) Between 18 and 48 is a huge gulf of life and living that might make a re-read a very disasterous endeavor, and I know for a fact that for a few of my GR friends, it was just that, and they regret replacing the youthful memories of this book with more mature ones.I understand their feelings.
But as a Southerner myself, I have a deep love and appreciation for my place of birth, and understand the pride and loyalty Southerners take in their homeland, because I feel it very much.
In case you’ve entirely managed to avoid Gone with the Wind, it suffices to say that it’s the story of Katie Scarlett O’Hara, the young (but eldest) child of Gerald and Ellen, who lives on the Georgia plantation known as Tara.
We continue to follow Scarlett through the Civil War and Reconstruction – a roughly decade-long period – as she attempts to rebuild her life from the ashes, while advancing her undying (ugh) love for Ashley.
But like all old people, she’d gotten to talking about things that happened before anyone was born, things no one was interested in.I have studied the American Civil War all my life.
The story is set in Clayton County and Atlanta, both in Georgia, during the American Civil War.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: خوانش نخست: روز پانزدهم ماه مارس سال 1974؛ خوانش دوم: ماه مارس سال 1998 میلادی؛ خوانش سوم: ماه آوریل سال 2000 میلادیعنوان: بر باد رفته؛ نوشته: مارگارت میچل؛ مترجم: حسن شهباز، مشخصات نشر: تهران، امیرکبیر، موسسه انتشارات فرانکلین، 1336، در دو جلد، در 1460 ص؛ چاپ شوم 1357؛ چاپ ششم 1379؛ چاپ نهم و دهم 1387؛ مترجم: شبنم کیان ؛ تهران، پانوس، 1363، در سه جلد، چاپ دیگر: تهران، گلدیس، 1368، در دو جلد؛ چاپ یازدهم 1374؛ شابک: 9646512062؛ چاپ بعدی 1377؛ روایت عشق یک دختر جنوبی در خلال جنگ داخلی آمریکاست؛ اسکارلت بزرگ‌ترین دختر جرالد اوهارا صاحب مزرعه ی پنبه تارا، با فهمیدن اعلام نامزدی و ازدواج اشلی ویلکز پسر مالک مزرعه مجاور با دختر خاله‌ اش ملانی همیلتون، به فکر ابراز علاقه به اشلی می‌افتد چون فکر می‌کند اشلی به خاطر ناامید شدن از او می‌خواهد ازدواج کند.
*One of the many quaint and highly amusing Southernisms used in the bookWHY READ THIS 1,037-PAGE BOOK IN THE FIRST PLACE?I’d seen the film several times, and had always wanted to read the novel, if only to compare the two.
She is deluded about her beloved golden boy Ashley Wilkes (at times the book reads like an Old South take on He’s Just Not That Into You) and doesn’t appreciate Ashley’s wife, Melanie, until the end.
And yet, Mitchell frequently has her characters working "as hard as a field hand." So who was lazy?
They were proud of the good names of their owners and, for the most part, proud to belong to people who were quality." We meet some of them, Scarlett's "small white hand disappearing into their huge black paws and the four capered with delight at the meeting and with pride at displaying before their comrades what a pretty Young Miss they had."Faithful slave Mammy is introduced, with her "kind face, sad with the uncomprehending sadness of a monkey's face" - "the mottled wise old eyes saw deeply, saw clearly, with the directness of the savage and the child, undeterred by conscience when danger threatened her pet." Mammy is one of the few morally pure characters in the book, but it's always that noble savage quality.Luckily Scarlett stays away from the slave quarters, where "the faint niggery smell which crept from the cabin increased her nausea."But then war comes.
619. Gone With The Wind, Margaret MitchellGone with the Wind is a novel by American writer Margaret Mitchell, first published in 1936. The story is set in Clayton County and Atlanta, both in Georgia, during the American Civil War and Reconstruction Era. Written from the perspective of the slaveholder, Gone with the Wind is Southern plantation fiction. Its portrayal of slavery and African Americans has been considered controversial, especially by succeeding generations, as well as its use of a ra
Gone With The Wind, Margaret MitchellGone with the Wind is a novel by American writer Margaret Mitchell, first published in 1936.
اسکارلت بزرگ‌ترین دختر جرالد اوهارا صاحب مزرعه پنبه تارا، با فهمیدن اعلام نامزدی و ازدواج اشلی ویلکز پسر مالک مزرعه مجاور با دختر خاله‌ اش ملانی همیلتون، به فکر ابراز علاقه به اشلی می‌افتد؛ چون فکر می‌کند اشلی به خاطر ناامید شدن از او می‌خواهد ازدواج کند.
در یک میهمانی در خانه ویلکز، اسکارلت به اشلی اظهار علاقه می‌کند؛ ولی اشلی عنوان می‌کند که می‌خواهد با دخترخاله او ملانی ازدواج کند.
They feel like people and the plot, while it goes on for ages, it constructed well and by the end you feel like you have been satisfied in terms of a character arc.Okay, now that that's done: I hate this book.
I felt like this entire novel was telling me that Scarlett o' Hara is a horrible person and should stop trying to be strong.Scarlett is most certainly a protagonist of great emotional passion and ferocity.
Despite people constantly bombarding her with gossip about Scarlett, especially where Ashley is concerned, Melanie treats Scarlett as a loyal sister.
"But I could have been nicer to him""You could have been - if you'd been somebody else" Well, that about sums it up.I am sorry to say this, I do not mean to sound cruel, I understand their considerable stress, but most of the main characters in this book were just plain stupid. Some might not be overtly so but they were in terrible need of serious self-awareness, at any rate.I can't phantom how this was called a love story.. (view spoiler)[If I have to label it anything it would soon be called
Some might not be overtly so but they were in terrible need of serious self-awareness, at any rate.I can't phantom how this was called a love story..
(view spoiler)[If I have to label it anything it would soon be called a tragey.
(hide spoiler)] Bleak fates all around.But.......
I started the book adoring Scarlette, then intriqued by Rhett....Rhett, who knew exactly how not to handle Scarlett (view spoiler)[then proceeded to expect her to declare her undying love for him while flaunting his infidelity in her face.
(hide spoiler)]What a genius mind you have Rhett (!)
Reto #9 PopSugar 2018: Un libro acerca de un villano o antihéroe ¡Qué puedo decir de este maravilloso libro! Acabo de terminarlo y aún tengo un nudo en la garganta. Confieso que no llevaba ni la cuarta parte y ya no tenía ninguna duda de que serían mis primeras cinco estrellas del año.La narrativa de Margaret Mitchell es impecable, aunque es inevitable notar la influencia de haber nacido y residido toda su vida en la misma ciudad en que mayormente transcurre su obra, que por lo que leí en su bi
No sería extraño suponer que su principal fuente de documentación hayan sido los mismos veteranos confederados o sus familiares, ya que consigue narrar con gran rigor histórico no sólo la Guerra de Secesión y la época de postguerra, sino también el derrumbe de la sociedad sureña y su estilo de vida, con un deje bastante nostálgico, por cierto.Y en ese entorno, Mitchell crea a los que considero de los personajes más complejos con los que me he encontrado en la literatura, Scarlett y Rhett, a los que amé y odié durante más de mil páginas, en que ninguna de ellas tiene desperdicio y que cuando se acabaron, lamenté haber llegado al final, sobre todo porque queda bastante abierto.Lo que el viento se llevó es un libro completo, épico, que nos habla de uno de los periodos históricos más cruentos de Estados Unidos, nos habla de una época, sus costumbres y su gente, por lo que me cuesta clasificar este libro como romántico; la verdad yo no sentí en ningún momento “la mayor historia de amor de todos los tiempos”, como muchas veces es descrito.
Enamorada de esta novela y de sus personajes. Una historia épica y enormemente emotiva, con sus claros y oscuros, pero que te hace reír, sufrir, llorar y soñar como solo lo logran las grandes novelas Pronto reseña en el canal ♡
Just finished my most recent rereading of GWTW and fell in love with this book once again. Margaret Mitchell never fails to weave her magic no matter how many times I've read it.  GWTW is not just a romantic story involving Scarlett, Ashley and Rhett but also a well researched account of the civil war. Since the victors always write the history concerning any war it's fascinating to learn about the other side of the story.
619. Gone With the Wind, Margaret MitchellGone with the Wind is a novel by American writer Margaret Mitchell, first published in 1936. The story is set in Clayton County and Atlanta, both in Georgia, during the American Civil War and Reconstruction Era. It depicts the struggles of young Scarlett O'Hara, the spoiled daughter of a well-to-do plantation owner, who must use every means at her disposal to claw her way out of poverty following Sherman's destructive "March to the Sea". تاریخ نخستین خوا
تاریخ نخستین خوانش این نسخه: روز اول ماه آوریل سال 2000 میلادیعنوان: بر باد رفته؛ نویسنده: مارگارت میچل؛ مترجم: پرتو اشراق؛ تهران؛ نشر ناهید در دو جلد؛ در سال 1383 منتشر کرده استهمین کتاب با ترجمه جناب حسن شهبازی نیز توسط انتشارات امیرکبیر و همچنین انتشارات نگاه به بازار کتاب عرضه شده، همین رمان را انتشارات دبیر هم با ترجمه جناب کیومرث پارسای ارائه کرده است.
همینکه اسکارلت زیبا، و نازپرورده، و خودخواه، به سن نوجوانی میرسد، آینده ی خود را، بر اثر وقوع جنگ داخلی آشفته میبیند.
Destruction, tragedy, political corruption, truth, lies, life, death, love, loss, big changes, new beginnings, intermingled with never ending cycles.
All of this helps make Gone with the wind what it is: an epic novel that will never be forgotten, that will forever be loved, cherished, and discovered with delight by new readers for ages.I am one of those new readers.
In my early thirties I’ve finally read the rather intimidating sized tomb that speaks of southern charm twisted with the civil war and all the tragedies that surrounded it.
She was a horrible mother and some of the more heart wrenching scenes was poor Wade trying to psychologically adapt during the war.
For 959 pages this novel continuously broke my heart, and I loved every minute of it. One word: gumption.
Since they had little if any rights, that was the only recourse for women at the time.I find it ironic that Ms. Mitchell never realized that just as the women were playing the role of fragile creatures subservient to the fathers and husbands, their black slaves were doing the same thing--hiding their abilities and intelligence because they had no other choice.Something else, my daughter is reading GWTW and commented "Everybody dies." I explained that during the Civil War, 800,000 men died and just like the Tarletons, families lost all their sons.
I loved every description of every surrounding, drinking it all in like I was watching it on the big screen, and at times I felt moved to tears (in public no less!).And did my having seen the film already take away from this reading experience?
The racism within the book affected me more than the role of women, and there times where I couldn't believe what I was reading, but we have to take a step back and remember that this book is set in the 1800s, and not even that, was published in the 1930s.
I've finally come to realise no review I can ever write will do this novel justice so I am just going to post it as it is.Set in the state of Georgia, before, during and after the American Civil War, Gone With the Wind tells the story of Scarlett O'Hara, a vain, spoiled, over-privileged daughter of a plantation owner, from her days as a carefree southern belle, through the destruction of the war, and the terror of reconstruction that followed.
If you must know, I actually loved the fact that Scarlett wasn't one of those absolutely perfect main characters you see in a lot of novels.
ان الحرب شيء قذر, وأنا أكره القذارة.
وعندما تنتهي هذه الحروب لا أحد يعلم شيئاً عن سبب اندلاعها02كم أتمنى لو كنت متزوجة .
وأن أقول إنني أشعر بدوار بعد رقصة واحدة من الفالس , بينما أستطيع أن أرقص يومين متواصلين دون أن أتعب , وسئمت مداهنة الرجال والإعراب عن الإعجاب بهم , في حين ليس لهم من الإدراك نصف ما أتمتّع به .
لماذا يجب على الفتاة أن يبلغ بها الحمق درجة السعي لاقتناص زوج ؟03جميع الحروب مقدسة بنظر المحاربين , ولو لم يجعلوها مقدسة لما بلغ الحمق بأحد للذهاب إلى الحرب .
My dad is a cinephile and despite never having read the book, has seen Gone with the Wind multiple times.
Just stand at your gate here and ask every darky woman who passes and I'm sure-"The three women broke out into indignant outcries."Do you think I'd trust my babies to a black nigger?" cried the Maine woman.
The people who are brave and smart naturally survive.For those who've read this book and are curious, my favourite character is Rhett followed by Melanie.
The last time that I read a book nearly as good as this was over a year ago and it was The Picture of Dorian Gray.
I only wish I had kept that paper....So, I was thinking just now of the scene in You've Got Mail where Meg Ryan is arguing with Tom Hanks about Pride and Prejudice, and she proclaims that Elizabeth Bennett is one of the most complex heroines ever written (I can't remember if she calls her THE most complex).
Even her relationship with Rhett is one of the most complex love stories ever written.
I think this novel was my first introduction to nostalgia, and it ruined me forever.
