https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114072.Reminiscences_of_the_Cuban_Revolutionary_War
This is a wonderful account of battles on the ground during the Cuban revolution, but it can be very hard to follow at times.
It does however offer an interesting, if occasionally complicated eye witness account of what happened in the Sierra Maestra.If you are looking for a book on the politics of the revolution or a measure of the man, you are probably better off digging into Jon Lee Andersons book 'Che: A Revolutionary Life'.
However, if you want to read an account of the day to day activities and struggles of a Cuban revolution (including, a guerilla 'pop up' cigar factory), warts and all,then this is a bit of history that you shouldn't ignore or pass by.
Amazing read. I learned a lot about military and guerilla strategy, the day to day life of the revolutionaries in the woods of the Sierra Maestra and the Cuban peasant life of the late 50s. I was captivated by the hopes and dreams of a whole generation of young men and women, and very touched by the numerous tales of bravery and falling soldiers... must read!
It would be after this attack that a young Argentinian doctor named Ernesto Guevara would join the cause and assist in Cuba's revolution and liberation."Che" is a form of colloquial Argentinian Spanish slang used in a vocative sense as "friend".
Che spares no details with how difficult it was living in the forest for months at time and the sad deaths and sacrifices endured by all, especially the peasants of Cuba, who were initially afraid to assist or join the cause.
The locals don't have immediate access to some of the best food or clothes because they are too expensive and some people are still not allowed to leave specific regions of Cuba.

El libro muestra a un Che intimista que reconoce sus miedos e incluso su falta de destreza tanto con el fusil como con el botiquín.
Quizás el aspecto más interesante que ofrece el libro, desde mi punta de vista, es la disputa interna del movimiento revolucionario entre el llano (a través de infructuosas huelgas y correrías políticas) y la sierra (a través del combate armado directo).
La sierra sale fortalecida con la figura de Fidel como comandante en jefe y secretario general del movimiento en todo el país.
La sierra desconfía de los revolucionarios moderados del llano al considerarlos meros espectadores agazapados esperando para asumir cargos políticos tras la salida de Batista.
I've always been fascinated by the cult status of Che Guevara, a man who is still held up as a symbol of hope and freedom that resonates with anyone who has felt oppressed by others around them.
This book covers his diary entries from his time fighting in the Cuban Revolution and gives an honest and interesting eyewitness account of the events that unfolded.
There are a lot of facts and names in each entry which can make it difficult to read at times, but I admire Che's commitment to keeping the story straight, even if it means it's not the easiest book to read.
It's a great story, but not by Che's telling. I don't consider him a very accomplished diarist. His is a reportage style, declarative and dry. I was hoping for more. A diarist that has all the tools of "creative nonfiction " at his disposal and rarely utilizes them. A Canonical work for some, an opportunity missed for me.
FINALLY FINISHED.
aside from the small section featuring a few of castro's letters, this book has likely been my least favorite to read this semester.
but hey, i have an exam next week over roughly 30 pages' worth of notes, including bits from this book, as well as two others.
(at least the other two books are more memorable?
eh.) i don't -not- like learning about the cuban revolution, as i feel it is important to understand--particularly because i am an american, but...yeah, nevertheless, i am glad we're moving back to reading a couple of other books in this class.
This book gives a great insight into the everyday struggles of revolution.
I find it so interesting, to be able to get inside Che's mind, the incredibly intelligent and cultured man who had a big heart and a dream of spreading freedom and joy across the world.
His depiction of the hardships, the sacrifices, and the eventual joy that accompany revolutionaries throughout the war for liberation makes the reader really understand the day-to-day developments of the Cuban revolutionary war and its eventual victory.
This book is a great look into the real life of soldiers during their every day struggle to liberate their country. This book was a true eye-opener for me during my younger years, and I still enjoy reading it today. Che Guevara does a good job at giving the real day-to-day struggles, both internal and external, of a soldier in battle. It is nice to read a true memoir of a soldier in battle without all the Hollywood hero foolishness that plagues books today.
Obviously this is a very “Che eye view” of the happenings of the Cuban revolution. It contains scant information on the overall strategic plans of the July 26th Movement which is oddly disappointing to me. Nonetheless Che’s eloquent and matter of fact writing make this a good, quick read and a great view into the mind of one of the 20th centuries most polarizing figures during what is one of his most formative times.
WearE
explendid view over the revolutionary period in Cuba
One of the better tourist books being sold in Cuba. Primarily a war memoir of the early days of the revolution. It is state prpaganda, but well written at that
Very interesting and insightful book. Not necessarily a book you enjoy reading immensely but still I consider it a must-read into the POV of such an interesting part of human history
Beautifully written by the legend himself. Puts you right into the shoes (or boots) of El Che. Very cool piece of history.
No words to express my love on this book...Just enjoyed....
many a times I have seen people wearing tshirts with the portrait of Che Guevara but it was not until when I watched motorcycle diaries that I started to comprehend so he really is.this memory is a tribute to all the people and their acts which made his mission possible.
although to fully understand it, one needs to have a map ready and a little knowledge of why Cuba really needed a revolution ( which I don't have and I will re read this in the near future ).Revolution is not easy, not on the receiver's end and neither on the sender's end.
Real enjoyed to read this book it's a good star to anyone who what to find a few parts of revolutionaries life. The Author wrote his story of Cuban Revolutionary War with passion and his thoughts about it.
Obviously this is a classic, a must read for anyone interested in Cuba or guerilla warfare, or indeed the famous historical figure of Che Guevara.
It gives some great snapshots in time and some insights into the personalities of famous figures both historical and present day people such as Fidel, Raúl and Che. The reader will get an idea of the hardship endured by the revolutionaries and the sometimes threadbare string from which their movement sometimes hung.
As Che writes himself, a two hour battle can be retold in 3 minutes, but what comes out so expertly in this writing is the emotional toll of all aspects of their journey, from the killing to the toothaches, the despair and betrayal, to the jubilation, told first hand it gives an extra dimension to the stories you may already know.As with Guerilla Warfare, this is an essential read for anybody wanting to truly understand Guevara's ideology and mentality, it comes though in his speech and thought, which hard as they may try is normally very difficult for a third party to portray without the actual individuals explanation (I'm not slurring biographies in this statement).
Reminiscences of the Cuban Revolutionary War is the book to read if you want to gather what happened on the ground in one of the most important revolutions post World War II.
It is a diary maintained by Che during the two years or so of the revolution, and is very crisp in its narrative.
Che begins the story with the arrival of the revolutionaries from Mexico, including Fidel Castro, and then takes us through the endless battles fought in the tough terrains of Sierra Maestra.
Apart from a detailed version of the actual war as seen from Che's eyes, the book also gives a peek into Che's mind.

Starvation, injury, diseases and bereavement mark it for people who are willing to risk their everything for the greater good- the liberation of a nation toiling under the shackles of dictatorship!!
And then I read this book and understood why was Che indeed to be revered.
But I guess people fighting for liberation are made of different metal as were Che Guevera and Fidel Castro.
An amazing book which is a must read for people interested in world politics for in my opinion it is important to understand the importance of the sweat, blood and toil that has gone into the freedom we often take for granted.

From Solomon Says:RCRW is a polished version of Che Guevara’s field journal, and contains detailed accounts of the entire war against the Batista regime.
It covers the events from the battle at Allegria de Pio to the fall of the dictatorship.As a field journal, it is a plain, often dry account of the condition of the rebel army – their numbers, their supplies, and their morale.
This being a first person account, Che does not paint the bigger picture but writes only of what he saw and heard.
Neither does this book deal with the political or ideological aspects of the revolution.
R.E.V.O.L.U.T.I.O.N.This page-turner is bible on revolution.Read the book and feel what revolution really means.
Wake up, guys!What this book is about could be read in other main-stream reviews.
It also shows how a man gets pushed to kill another person for larger good and every killer need not be a sinner.
Read it to question your ideas of non-violence.
Read it to know how to be violent for larger good.Read it to feel what revolution means.
This book is adrenaline rushing ride for sure so brace your seat-belts before reading it.
OK, ignore the seat-belt part but it's really good.
Che's diary notes on the campaign in Cuba form the basis of part one of this book while the second part is his memories of events written a few years after the events.
It is an admirable intention and a valuable historical resource but, for the general reader, it ultimately suffers from dry detail, listing people and events in the Cuban revolution.
The second part, to be fair, is better as it adds some 'colour' to the dry details.
He is critical of his own actions and decisions at times showing that he intended to offer what he considered a fair assessment of the campaign.
I picked this book as I wanted to know about Che from very long time.
This book is a compilation of Che's diary which he maintained during Cuban revolutionary war.
As such this book is little too detailed for a normal reader who wants to know about Che.You will live with Che throughout this book..
Initial set back when Cuban army ambushes rebels ..
His asthma attacks in middle of fight , Executing traitors..and so many such incidents are mentioned with lot of detailsThere is a chapter 'The murdered puppy' which I am sure every reader of this book will remember..
While on the march a puppy which was a pet for rebels followed them.
Most of the book is discussion of small scale skirmishes and battles in the Sierra Maestra, where the revolution grew in strength and popularity as it went from success to success against the largely untrained and unmotivated regime soldiers.
Whereas much of the book such discussion, the best parts of those in between, when he discusses the tiresome long marches and the deaths of comrades.
Also interesting - and quite shocking - is Che's discussion of how potential traitors or defectors were treated.
This was especially shocking as Che discusses the execution of a child soldier (something he saw as just).
