https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/752988.The_Bear_That_Wasn_t
I don't know what I think about this book. My late aunt had two copies (a very worn 1st edition, and this 1981 Dover reprint), so it must've meant something to her.The blurb claims it is very funny, but I found it depressing. I'll have to ponder for a bit.
Tak ako príbeh o vačici, aj tento príbeh opisuje obyčajného a spokojného medveďa, ktorému sa svet počas jednej zimy obráti hore nohami. A to len preto, lebo ľudia majú vlastné predstavy podľa, ktorých má fungovať svet.
A komu sa to nechce čítať, ten si to môže pozrieť na youtube.
Po Vačice, která se nesmála trošku zklamání, ale když o tom přemýšlím trošku s odstupem, tak zase ne až tak velké.Tématikou podobné Vačici, ale tady je zajímavý i motiv druhých medvědů, kteří mají jen své omezené vnímání reality a nejsou schopni (nebo ochotni?) vnímat medvědovu identitu.Graficky je hodně zajímavý motiv postupného progresu v továrně - s každou vyšší funkcí se proměňuje i kancelář a je to propracované do nejmenších detailů.
Stejně tak jsou skvělé komplexní kresby, např.
ZOO atd.
this is the perfect case of two ppl reading a book and getting complete different messages from it or at least that's what I gather when reading the reviews for this children's book.
to me the message that conveys is to be true to who you are, like the bear regardless how many times the bear heard that he was a silly man that needed a shave and wore a fur coat at the end of it all he knew he was a bear.
It puzzles me how ppl think this book is about environmentalism O_o, like I said above guess it shows perfectly how two can read the same book and a complete different message from it.
Pleasing line drawings illustrate the tale of a bear who hibernates and awakens to find that a factory has been built on top of his cave, and he is told to get to work because he's not a bear, just a man in a fur coat. He tries to protest, in succession, to the General Manager, Third VP, Second VP, First VP, and President - each of whom has increasing numbers of secretaries (with large round butts and Barbara Stanwyck hairdos), wastepaper baskets, telephones, and increasingly extravagant office decor. Anti-bureaucratic, anti-industrialist message.
Another cleverly written "bear" story .
This long suffering bear manages to make a"chump"out of the factory foreman , his general manager , the third vice president , the second vice president , the first vice president AND the factory president just by asking for a place to sleep .
Which in the end , he got .
I haven't hand such a chuckle since reading THE BEAR ATE YOUR SANDWICH by Julia Sarcone-Roach andTHE BEAR'S BICYCLE by David McPhail .
Bears can be extremely clever at getting something the want .
THE BEARS INVASION OF SICILY by Dino Buzzati is another peculiar ursinian story .
Skvělá knížka. Útlá a plná obrázků, které vyprávějí víc než text. Trochu smutné, ale myslím, že docela nesmrtelné podobenství lidské společnosti. Zaujmou vás ilustrace, však byl taky autor jedním z prvních hollywoodských animátorů, zaujme vás přesah - a i když je to jen o pár stránkách, je to naprosto boží :-)
Frank Tashlin is usually remembered as being a Warner Bros.
It's a shame that his 1946 book "The Bear That Wasn't" isn't better remembered.
You're a silly man who needs a shave and wears a fur coat."Aside from the story, the illustrations in "The Bear That Wasn't" are brilliant.
The 1967 cartoon version of "The Bear That Wasn't," by Tashlin's former Warner Bros.
It also trades the book's wonderfully clean, black-and-white line drawings for what's sometimes called cartoon modern style.
I'm a big fan of cartoon modern, but don't think it serves "The Bear That Wasn't" as well as the book's original illustrations do.
The story is a bit outdated, but the sense of trying to be true to oneself remains.
A bear, noticing that fall has come, retreats to a cave to hibernate.
Over the winter a factory is built right over his cave.
When he wakes and leaves the cave he finds himself on the factory floor, where everybody tells him he is not a bear, but a funny man in a fur coat who needs a shave.
Will he cave into pressure and believe the others or will he be able to find out his true nature once again?
Po skvělé Vačici co se nesmála mě tohle zklamalo. Celou knihu se prakticky řeší totéž a v určitých pasážích to Tashlin vyhání až do absurdna. To je sice fajn, ale méně je někdy více a ke konci to na mě působilo už otravně. Zároveň mi závěr přišel takový nijaký. Na rozdíl od Vačice tu autor nemá tak propracovanou kresbu, takže ani v tomhle ohledu kniha úplně neobstojí (ale třeba vykreslení jednotlivých kanceláří pobavilo).
My kids and I love reading this one... the simplicity and repetition of the story and the illustrations make it appealing to children, but the underlying theme (how unreasonable a bureaucratic system can become) will speak to adults as well and provide fodder for discussion as children grow up. It's accessible and fun for early readers, and the humor has multi-generational appeal.
Pequeño relato infantil, con ilustraciones para entender mejor la lectura.Aunque es un libro para niños, la historia te hace reflexionar sobre los cambios que nosotros los humanos generamos en nuestro entorno y como podemos ser tan "ciegos" y no ver que está provocando esos cambios También toca el tema de creer/confiar en ti apesar de que los demás te digan lo contrario.
Looks can be deceiving. This is as much a book for adults as it is for children. Its about knowing who you are, about not letting the world determine your identity and nature. Its about being true to your self.
My love for children's books knows no bounds! This is a sweet little book about a bear who keeps getting told he isn't and eventually starts believing it.
Well, it was a lot better story than I thought it would be. In fact, children should enjoy its repetitiousness and cute illustrations. It makes a great read-aloud (I tried it). Recommended.
Opět kniha s úžasným zpracováním a hlubokou myšlenkou... Jsou chvíle, kdy jsem opravdu ráda, že mne brácha přivedl ke čtení komiksů...
La historia de un oso que se va a hibernar, y cuando despierta está en medio de una fabrica donde todo el mundo insiste en que si está allí, es porque no puede ser un oso.La ilustraciones del propio Tashlin son encantadoras y numerosas.
Es un libro muy cortito, pero es muy interesante como contrapone el punto de vista de todo el mundo (todos ven al oso como algo ajeno a ellos, que no puede estar en su misma situación) con siempre la misma frase "Pero...
Čtenářská výzva na Goodreads 2018 (40/205) Čtenářská výzva Lovci perel 2018 (Dvacátá třetí kniha) Již třetí kniha, kterou jsem přečetl od autora Franka Tashlina v rámci Lovců perel.
Je to jednoduše obyčejný čtivý příběh a tak nějak bych to mohl zhodnotit jako jednotný celek.
Samozřejmě, kresba jako obvykle vůbec nebyla špatná.
Zde sice nebyla tak dokonalá, jak bych si já osobně představoval, ale špatná nebyla.Takže ano, jedná se o příjemnou knížečku, kterou si přečtete, založíte do sbírky a otom na ni pravděpodobně zapomenete.
Žádný zázrak raději vůbec neočekávejte.
Ce livre jeunesse est extraordinaire ! Derrière une histoire Kafkaïenne, la morale apprend aux petits et rappelle aux grands l'importance de cultiver ses propres opinions, choisir son chemin de vie et faire fi des conventions et attentes sociétales. Grandir et ne pas se perdre en route, que peut-on souhaiter de mieux à un enfant ?
My favourite teacher gave me this as a gift when I was 7! I found it and read it again. Now that I'm older I can appreciate the moral behind the story. Always be yourself & don't let others tell you who you are. It's a great book & I would love to read it to my nieces!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wr3nY...usted no es un oso, ni un animal libre, ni un animal que baile o cante, ni mucho menos un animalejo que sueña, usted es un hombre testarudo que necesita una afeitada y usa un abrigo de piel!!! Ahora sí, ¿va a volver a preguntar? No! , me voy a hibernar!
Narrativa perfecta en formato de caricatura
I like this story and illustration.I though the book taught me about important thing.It is about WHO ARE YOU?I’m me. I’m nobody else!!
kniha, ktorú prečítate za 10 minút. ale skvelo napísané :)
You're a silly man who needs a shave and wears a fur coat."All too often, if we hear something stated as fact often enough, even if it is as patently false as the oft-repeated statement in The Bear that Wasn't, we come to believe it.
Still sleepy from his long winter's hibernation, the bear is still sleepily befuddled by the transformation of his environment when a Foreman spots him and orders him back to work.
You're a silly man who needs a shave and wears a fur coat.
:\
In this story, a bear did what bears do and found a cave to hibernate for the winter.
Despite the bear's insistence that he was in fact a bear, no one believed him.
Apart from the illustrations in this book, it also comes with a good message to remember who you are and be who you are, despite what other people try and make you into.
It wasn't the best book I read, but it is a good book, and if you can find it for a reasonable price, then I'd pick up a copy.
and we tend to believe them, forgetting that they are just opinions and that we know who we are better that they do.
It is probably the only thing that we know better than others and we should remember this whenever we are on the verge of falling into the traps of their judgments.How many times has it happened to you to feel sad or angry because someone else has told you that you are stupid, incapable, ugly or what-else?
That only happened because you believed them.
His experience of soul-eating corporate culture, each successive higher up ridiculous boss yelling at him "You're not a bear, you're a funny man who needs a shave and wears a fur coat...get back to work!" Humorous and poignant illustrations.
Trans and LGBTQI+ individuals may particularly relate to the pathos of the bear tying his best to fit the expectations of others, not being listened to, and finally needing to be true to himself despite others, before it does him in.
There is something at the heart of an activist's soul, in this story.
Not only that, it is a story told with the skill of a master storyteller...kids will love this book.
