https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10950924-the-dovekeepers
Or, I think I might have run across this ditty at some point because I had a déjà vu type moment when I read it:“For those who say that the Witch of Moab never loved anyone, that she was selfish, concerned with her own fate alone, I can only say that she was ruined by love and delivered by it and that she left something glorious to the word, a child who loves to stand in the rain.”Okay, yes, you’ve written it off as a chick lit book.
My urgent need to tell everyone about this beautifully haunting book is taking over all other thoughts, so I need to get this review out before I explode!Alice Hoffman is the author of Practical Magic and The Red Garden, plus many, many other novels but The Dovekeepers is her first historical fiction work.
I cried when I finished the novel, not only because of the sad fate of the people of Masada, but because I will miss these four bold and unyielding women.
We were no different from the doves above us. We could not speak or cry, but when there was no choice we discovered we could fly. It you want a reason, take this: We yearned for our portion of the sky. Masada, the word summons up images, war, Romans, Zealots, slaughter, mass suicide. A place of national pride for some, historical and archaeological controversy for many, a bit of Python mockery to others. On visiting the place itself Alice Hoffman was inspired to wonder about the experience of t
(The Monty Python crew used Josephus’s writings as well, for a very different purpose, in Life of Brian.) The four primary characters meet at Masada, where they are assigned to care for the doves.
We are also given a bit of a tour, and get a sense of place beyond the stick figure general notion.Hoffman definitely has an inclination towards incorporating history into her work, whether of the maritime sort in Blackbird House or a bit of Transcendentalism in The Red Garden.
Watch for image streams relating to serpents and boids, sorry, birds (I am from Brooklyn, after all) Hoffman associates some elemental aspects with her characters, which seemed very fairy-tale-ish and ok.
Yet I found the reading to be more of an exercise in frustration and perseverance.
The frustration is largely the result of the book's lack of development, which might sound weird to say about a 500+ page novel.
Fans of fantasy will find the development of the magic weak.
The first section of the novel feels like you are trapped in wandering the dessert with the characters, and not it a "oh the description is so vivid I feel like I'm there" way but in a "dear god when will this end" way.

Alice Hoffman will teach the reader about an event which most of us know nothing about: this is a factual story with fictional characters interwoven. Four women who are refugees at Masada over 2000 years ago; Hoffman tells their story – will you listen?  this is where they worked: a dovecote at Masada this is where they lived: the fortress at MasadaA colossal triumph; Hoffman shines in this endeavour which took her five years to write. Interesting? Hell, yeah! This story, the fact and the fictio
Alice Hoffman will teach the reader about an event which most of us know nothing about: this is a factual story with fictional characters interwoven.
Four women who are refugees at Masada over 2000 years ago; Hoffman tells their story – will you listen?
this is where they worked: a dovecote at Masada
this is where they lived: the fortress at MasadaA colossal triumph; Hoffman shines in this endeavour which took her five years to write.
Interesting?
Hell, yeah!
This story, the fact and the fiction, will linger with me for a long time.
Thank you Alice Hoffman.
Most Highly Recommended 5★
For fans of Alice Hoffman this book is a mixture of the new and the familiar.
I think whether or not readers like this book will hinge on their reaction to the language Hoffman uses to recreate the world of her women.
Words are cited as the first thing created by God. Hoffman uses this novel to give words to the women of the time, to let their voices be heard.
This book did for me what I love about books---it used the written word to create a world for me as real as the one I'm living in now.
This is a masterpiece, a wonderful, mesmerizing book about the lives of four strong Jewish women, each with different backgrounds, powerful personalities, and distinct stories of there own.
I like my poetry in short doses though and after two hundred pages of lyrical prose I was ready to move on with the story.
Revka, Aziza, Shirah and Yael were strong women who lived amazing lives and were the only survivors of the Masada massacre.
I felt like I only needed to read about the steps to prepare one's body for death only once.
Instead, the author felt like she had to pound the information into my skull again and again.
like the author was pounding me upside the head with her overly written book.
The story just followed the lives of some rather mundane characters.
I was rather annoyed.I would even go as far to say that this wasn’t really historical fiction.
It was barely portrayed at all; it wasn’t the focus of the story, the characters were.
This was more a chronicling of their lives rather than a portrayal of real historical detail.
I’d just had enough of hearing about the desert, and it’s amazingly exciting wind, come the tenth time it was described.
When the goat is your favourite character in the novel, then you know that you hate it.
Awesome read! could not get enough of the storyline..love the plot twist and characters.. A.Hoffman is a great author..(paperback!)
I was absolutely taken by this amazing story which was based on historical events of which I knew nothing about. The writing is beautiful and the story of these strong and willful women will remain with me for a long time.
2.75★Being a huge AH fan I’m somewhat embarrassed with my rating and reception to this novel.
With only a couple of exceptions, every GR friend who read it rated it very highly.
I offer up my thoughts for those very few of you who also struggled.I ended up feeling like many of the Jews wandering in the desert for forty years, except for me it was forty years of five hundred pages.
It became necessary for me to break and read other books in order to finish.
There wasn’t enough meat (and I’m a vegetarian).As stated I’m a fan of the author, so perhaps I need literary counseling?
"Dovekeepers" is the first book I've read of Alice Hoffmans'.
While the proud Jewish rebels held off a Roman legion for several years, Rome ultimately prevailed and all but two women and five children killed themselves rather than allow themselves to be overrun.Hoffman's novel follows the lives of four women who all find themselves on Masada.
The book is full of characters who are broken and hurt; affected by some deep trauma catalyzed by the Roman attacks on Jerusalem; driving each, by their own will or otherwise, to the fortress in the desert.
But as a first time reader of Hoffman, and a male, I feel fuller for having read this novel.
Since I have visited this site in present-day Israel, I was interested in reading a novel based on this event.In terms of the history, Hoffman has done an admirable job of researching and narrating the events at Masada.
She describes the time, place and culture of the ancient Hebrews with great detail.However, in terms of the fictional part of the novel, she does not do such an admirable job.
And maybe an editor who would have the courage to point out that a story cannot be told in the first person by a dead character.
Yet Amram followed his father's footsteps --became a powerful assassin, himself as a young man.Yael's closest friend ---is her brother, Amram!
The Assassin, Simon, --(who trains Amram to be an assassin) ---later becomes Yael's lover ---(but so much more --I can't give all the details away) ...Shirah is has two daughters: Aziza & Nahara.
(no love is 'easy' in this story)...Channa is the barren wife of a character based on the real-life leader of Jewish rebels.Here are a couple lines to ponder........1) Yael speaking: "As I grew, I was quiet and well behaved.
Once again a book I picked up because of book club. One of the few books I have read in my life that made me sob like a baby at the end. I've heard they're making this into a mini series and I can't wait for it if they do. I enjoyed the four stories of the women and how they meshed together. An emotional ride for anyone who reads. Such an outstanding work of art based on four women who come together and become family despite their backgrounds. Really enjoyed!
This book has been called Alice Hoffman's masterpiece, her most ambitious and mesmerizing writing, and I surely agree. This is the richly told story of four strong and mysterious women from diverse paths who find themselves drawn together as sacred dovekeepers for the 900 Jews who held off the fierce Roman army for months in the Judean desert at the mountain fortress Masada. No doubt you know something about the famous siege, and this great fictional (yet fact related tale) has all of the ancient mysticism, magic, and passion that make up a spellbinding read . 5 stars
Otherwise, it's stagnant and annoying.This book has the nasty whiff of Anita Diamont: phony historicity; extraneous research thrown in because she has it, not because it fits; names of objects (e.g.: "birthing stool") that are never explained (probably because the author is clueless about its use); predictable outcomes (of course Yael will fall in love with the enslaved legionnaire); repetitive themes and phrases, ponderous and heavy-handed symbols, and and the author's inflated sense of herself.
And one whose literary style has more sophistication than 60s soap operas.Final note:I finished the book, which became a page-turner as the end approached.

Wow, a lot going on here. A bit repetitive and mighty superstitious, ancient times are presented here in a not-too-graphic presentation. My first Alice Hoffman, but I have some more of hers to read on my list. This book has been on my TBR since 2012, so I am happy to report finishing, and well worth it.Herbane, holy plant.Burned amulets at roots offering to Ashtoresh, goddess watch in time of strife. Recipe book for human heart, all we know and all experienced contained there.
The only reason I would give this book 2 Stars is due to the amount of research that Alice Hoffman had obviously put into this novel, which I certainly appreciated.
Honestly though, I think that this roughly 500 page book could have been done in about 200 pages.Poetic descriptions saturated this novel, making for an incredibly dull read.
This is likely the reason it took me over a month to read this.I did enjoy the main characters and their back stories (I actually related to some of them) and I also anticipated where the plot was moving, but I couldn't help but skim through this.
I had heard the decree during our month of Sivan, when the fragrant white lilies blossom, that in the month of Tammuz, when the sun reaches its highest point in the sky and children leave school, our group of women that gathers every month to enjoy each other’s society and discuss literature would read Alice Hoffman’s bestseller, The Dovekeepers.
I have long disagreed with writers who believe they can make an unconvincing character more “relatable” if only they narrate their stories in the first person.
When I read a book, I do not wish to be so distracted by writing that doesn’t advance the story, by forced similes and historical details haphazardly sprinkled into the text, that I lose interest in the characters or what happens to them.
There was a spark inside that holiest of holy places that made people want to possess it, and what men yearn for they often destroy.I've realized that when I rate a book on GR, four stars mean that it's a really good book and that I would highly recommend it to most people, but when I rate a book five stars it mostly means that there was a personal connection with the book.
Although the writing is exquisitely beautiful, it is not an easy-read.
The characters are complex, and with the exception of Revka, they are not always easy to like.
3.5 starsThere was something about Alice Hoffman's work of Historical Fiction -The Dovekeepers- that had me feeling ambivalent.
These were harsh times, arid lands and collectively they endured and suffered more than it's possible to believe, yet it appears to be historically correct.The story was often gruesome but oddly I was able to read the words on the page without feeling moved.
Having only read one other Alice Hoffman book - her contemporary title (Faithful) - I recall being fully engaged with those characters so maybe it was just me.
It is a towering tale that treads the line between both mystical and stirring.The Dovekeepers is a narrative split into the individual stories of four brave women that defined time and place, Masada in 70 AD.
Hoffman works hard to earn our appreciation for these women, but in the end I felt a bit lost.The Dovekeepers was a selection for my book club this month.
Whilst I can see its positive points, mainly in its historical value, it didn’t capture this reader’s heart.The Dovekeepers is based on a fascinating true chapter in our history books and is best directed to fans of ancient history, faith and mysticism.
THE DOVEKEEPERS is Alice Hoffman's most ambitious and mesmerizing novel, a tour de force of imagination and research, set in ancient Israel.
Based on this tragic and iconic event, Hoffman's novel is a spellbinding tale of four extraordinarily bold, resourceful and sensuous women, each of whom has come to Masada by a different path.
All are dovekeepers, and all are also keeping secrets - about who they are, where they come from, who fathered them, and whom they love.
THE DOVEKEEPERS is said to be Alice Hoffman's masterpiece.Although this book is historical fiction, I learned so much about this time in history.
Every December, I trawl through the newspaper articles 'Best Books of the Year', noting down any titles that appeal to me.
I'm usually pleased by these choices, recommended by other authors or academics, but rarely am I transported the way that I was upon reading this magical book.Other reviewers have ably described the plotline, so I won't go into it here.
I was entranced from the first page by Hoffman's wonderful writing.
Bravo, Alice Hoffman!Although this novel was published in 2011, I read it in 2012.
It's currently the best book I've read this year.
A historic novel, a novel of magic, mystery and the spiritual, and sensually written piece of literature about women and exploring the time in history from the viewpoint of women but never a Novel only for women.Yael the daughter of an assassin who'se father treats her with unforgivable cruelty and whose passions and great capacity for love stay with usRevka who survives the horrific rape and murder of her daughter at the hands of Roman soldiers and lives to refind meaning in her lifeAziza the girl warrior, brought up as a son, lithe , athletic and beautiful, her fate is to fall in love with a fellow warriorandShirah, the enchanting , beautiful sorceress, cast out because of bigotry and religious dogma, her fate is to be the great love of the commander of Masada, the great Yair Ben eliezer and who does all she can to save her doomed children.A book of great emotion and haunting as it is exquisitely erotic and evocative of the Land and people of Israel.
Revka a bakers wife who escapes with her grandchildren after witnessing horrors so terrible that I wondered how she continued.Aziza is a warrior, the first born daughter of a woman who's wise ways and old magic will touch them all.Shirah beautiful, wise, The witch of Moab , she has insight and can summon the rain, the women of Masada come to her for help , be it love potions, births, protection charms.
This story of a moment in history is maybe more poignant to me as my parents visited Masada and they told me how spiritual the place was.41/2 wonderful stars from me.
