https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5954.Narcissus_and_Goldmund
I have given away copies of it for this purpose to several persons over the years.Contrary to the description in Wikipedia, I read the novel from the perspective of Goldmund being lost and then found.
Given the intellectual influences obtaining in Hesse's circles and the nature of his missionary family it is likely that both were considered.
My own reading was influenced by having studied mysticism by this time and not yet having read Nietzsche's The Birth of Tragedy.What I really like about Hermann Hesse, here and elsewhere, is that he really cared, cared about people, cared about culture and cared about the natural world.
At its publication, Narcissus and Goldmund was considered Hesse's literary triumph; chronologically, it follows Steppenwolf.
نقل از متن کتاب: زرین دهان: فکر میکنم که یک گلبرگ گل یاس کوچک که میلولد، بسیار بیشتر از تمام کتابهای کتابخانه حرف دارد.
با حروف و کلمات نمیتوان تمام حقیقت را بیان کردنرگس: برای فراگیری علوم، این چند حرف کافی نیست.
او بودن را دوست دارد، نه شدن را؛ حقیقت را دوست دارد، نه ممکن را؛ او تحمل نمیکند که حرف دلها به شکل مار، یا پرنده ای درآید.
When artists create pictures and thinkers search for laws and formulate thoughts, it is in order to salvage something from the great dance of death, to make something last longer than we do.” From the novelThis philosophical novel provides perhaps the most vivid contrast I've read between, on one hand, the beauty of the skin, visual art and sensual pleasures, and, on the other, splendours of the spirit, stability, science and logic.Published in 1930, this is Herman Hesse's brilliant story of two friends in medieval Germany.
The story begins when Goldmund, a student, and Narcissus, a teacher only a few years older, become friends at a cloister school.
Living in a hidden cloister in medieval Germany, Narcissus is a most learned and pious young acolyte pursuing knowledge, and the contemplation of logic, philosophy and theology.
Hesse's poetic and emotive medieval coming-of-age story reads as the quintessential novel on the pains and euphoria of adolescence, forming a deep lifelong friendship, and succumbing to the desires of the opposite sex, of which, after years stuck in a Monastery, it's a case of making up for lost time.
Narcissus and Goldmund is ultimately a raging battle between the body and mind (and the plague!), a pandora’s box of contemplation, and a novel that lingered strongly well after it's closing pages.
Can I just say that I absolutely love Hermann Hesse.
For me his words speak directly to my soul.
He is absolutely brilliant and his works are so nuanced to the point where they only mean anything to the reader unless they can relate in some profound way.
One lives the life of a duty bound priest the other an Artist.
I especially enjoyed the part where Narcissus talks about when someone who is meant to be an artist tries to live the life of a thinker evil ensues.
He calls the artist-thinker a mystic.
رواية ستنضج في رأسك مئات الأسئلة..
Enlightened does not begin to describe the feeling one gets when eyes see, mind is set in motion, and images are processed into thoughts that seed the way we look at everything.
We SEE everything in a new light, at least for as long as we remember what is important, what makes a difference.
I suppose all we can ask of our mind is for a few moments of enlightenment at a time.
And, to remember.
Let us be comforted with whatever ration of enlightenment we are allowed.
Let us not forget that we are allowed these moments, we are not entitled them.
این نسخه ، کامل و بدون ساسنسور بود(با نسخه ی انگلیسی چک کردم) ، بعد اینکه در نسخه ی نشر چشمه شیوه ی نگارش کتاب به قدری نامفهوم و سخت خوان بود که من نه تنها هیچ لذتی از مطالعه ی کتاب نبردم بلکه درهر صفحه حداقل دو یا سه کلمه ی جدید وجود داشت که اصلا در زبان فارسی به گوش من نخورده بود چه برسه به اینکه معنی این کلمه ها رو بدونم :))با این حال اگر باز هم نسخه ی نشر چشمه را انتخاب کردید یادتون باشه که مقدمه ی کتاب رو بزارید آخر بخونید چون همه ی داستان از ابتدا تا انتها به طور خلاصه در مقدمه توضیح داده شده که از نظر من چندان خوشایند نبود در آخر اینکه می تونید نسخه ی پی دی اف و بدون سانسور این کتاب رو با نام "نرگس و زرین دهن" در اینترنت پیدا کنید
Mas, apesar de todos os antagonismos, ligava-os um traço comum: ambos eram seres distintos, diferenciando-se dos outros por percetíveis talentos e atributos, e ambos tinham recebido do destino uma especial premonição.Narciso interessava-se ardentemente por aquela alma juvenil, cujo carácter e o destino ele rapidamente reconhecera.
181 - 182)”Goldmund sentia que através da arte e da vida de artista tinha a possibilidade de conciliar os seus profundos antagonismos, ou pelo menos de criar magníficas e sempre novas metáforas sobre a ambivalência da sua natureza.
Of course I wasn't so nerd at that time and together with reading there could be no tv, no bmx rides with friends, no late night awake and all sorts of "normal" don'ts.But the worst one was definitely the "no reading week".Later in my teenage years, I remember how my mum was very glad about my reading activity, but not particularly interested in influencing that favourite pastime of mine with her tips.
As far as I remember the only exception was "Narcissus and Goldmund"."Mum, I read "Candide".
But you should rather read Narcissus and Goldmund"."Mum, "The Buddenbrooks" is very interesting.

"Noi pensatori cerchiamo di avvicinarci a Dio staccando il mondo da lui. Tu ti avvicini a lui amando e ricreando la sua creazione. Sono entrambe opere umane e inadeguate, ma l'arte è più innocente." Questo non è un libro che andrebbe letto a diciannove anni. Diciannove sono già troppi. Andrebbe letto prima, a quattordici o a quindici, quando il mondo lo si vede ancora in modo diverso. Io, da ragazzo, ci leggo qualcosa di diverso rispetto a quello che avrei potuto leggerci da ragazzino. O rispet
Questo suo cercare nasce all'inizio del romanzo, quando l'amico Narciso prova a fargli capire quale sia la sua vera vocazione attraverso dialoghi che ricordano molto la contrapposizione nicciana tra spirito dionisiaco e spirito apollineo.
Perché io ormai ho diciannove anni e non quattordici o quindici."Narciso lo guardò, grave: «Io ti prendo sul serio quando sei Boccadoro.
Forse non è facoltà nemmeno di Narciso.Io credo che regalerei questo libro a persone più giovani di me, sebbene non sarà mai tra i miei libri preferiti.
Io, che ho diciannove anni, non l'ho trovato né in Narciso né in Boccadoro.
If you have a penchant for poetic language, a love for new experiences, and a sensitivity to life's struggles, you will find hope and deep beauty in this story.
I recommend finding a place of solitude and spiritual transcendence before delving into this as you will inevitably flip back to the beginning once finished and have to read it again.“If I know what love is, it is because of you.It is not our purpose to become each other; it is to recognize each other, to learn to see the other and honor him for what he is: each the other's opposite and complement.We fear death, we shudder at life's instability, we grieve to see the flowers wilt again and again, and the leaves fall, and in our hearts we know that we, too, are transitory and will soon disappear.
بسیار عالی بود.به شدت با تمایلات و یلگی و رهایی گلدموند هم ذات پنداری میکردم.عاشق فهم والای نارتسیس شدم و به قول مختاری درک حضور دیگری.با تشکر بسیار ویژه از امانت دهنده یِ جان: آهنگ!
وقد نسجت الأساطير الهندوسية الكثير من الحكايا التي تدور حول إلاهات الأنهار تلك وأعمالها وعلاقاتها ومصائرها وطُرُق انعتاقها.الإقطاعي الشرير في الفيلم وكل معاونيه هم رمز الجفاف والعطش والقحط والموت، أمّا غانغا وجامونا فهما رمز الخير والرواء والأراضي الخصبة والحياة، أمّا سراسوتي وصديق غانغا فهما الأنهار المؤقتة المُعينة للخير كي يبسط يده على الأرض من جديد.(2)هل كان بإمكاني في طفولتي أن أتمثّل قيم الخير وأن أبتعد عن قيم الشر لو قيلت لي قصص الأنهار كما هي، دون الخيال الجامح الذي حوّل الأنهار إلى شخصيات روائية، وحاك منها قصصًا تتحدث فيها وتتصارع وتعشق وتحيا وتموت؟.
يعتقد الطاويّ بأن الوصول إلى الله يبدأ من الأسفل، أي من الأرض والحياة والمكابدة، وأنه لا يمكن الوصول إليه إلا من خلال امتحان الجسد وإنهاكه، الانغماس التام في السفر والملذات والتعرّف على الشعوب ومُعاينة مصائرها، أي الاندماج من جديد مع الطبيعة بوصفها أُمًّا (وهي ما يقصده غولدموند بأمّه في الرواية).
It took a lifetime of wandering for Goldmund to come to the same conclusion about Narcissus- unfortunately he only found stability at the very end.Some might think the ending for Goldmund one of disappointment- but really, only one could survive in this tale of a search for inner peace.
Just like Narcissus, for one to find that kind of peace, you must reconcile every part of yourselves and integrate them into the whole- accepted, just as they are.
:PIt's books like these that make me glad I'm a reader.
The book is spectacular and extremely thought provoking.
Out of all, probably the following paragraph left the adequate impression.“All existence seemed to be based on duality, on contrast.
Either one was a man or one was a woman, either a wanderer or a sedentary burgher, either a thinking person or a feeling person – no one could breathe in at the same time as he breathed out, be a man as well as a woman, experience freedom as well as order, combine instinct and mind.
Embora no final do romance, Narciso tenha questionado se a sua vivência contemplativa teria sido inferior à do seu amigo que, pela sua natureza, teria sido, à luz dos nossos dias, mais interessante, fica-se com a ideia da plenitude de cada uma delas que, à sua maneira, encontraram a tão almejada paz.
Mai târziu, într-o biserică, descoperă pe chipul unei sculpturi înfăţişând pe Maica Domnului atât durerea Maicii sfâşiate de pierderea Fiului, cât şi extazul priciniut de implicarea în împlinirea Scripturilor.În acest fel, Gură-de-Aur ajunge să devină conştient de propria-i vocaţie, cea mistic-artistică, și înțelege că, în esenţă, durerea şi voluptatea, plăcerea şi moartea sunt totuna iar sensul vieţii poate fi cuprins doar prin armonizarea contrastelor: a materiei cu spiritul, a femininului cu masculinul, a luminii cu întunericul, a binelui cu răul, a morţii cu viața.
By sleeping in the woods, killing Viktor the thief, meeting the plague, studying under Meister Niklaus and romancing with Lydia and Julie, Lene and Agnes, he explored the sensual life as an artist.
Calw, GermanyOn the other hand, at home in Mariabronn with the chestnut tree and knowing that his way differs from that of Goldmund, Narziss, isolated from the flesh’s pleasure and pain, lived out the monastic life, praying, meditating, searching for enlightenment through intellectual and ascetic disciplines.
Hermann HesseHermann Hesse, throughout his life, sought Goldmund’s artistic way--the emotional, prodigal, active, and sensual path--but ended up with Narziss’s mystical way--the intellectual, disciplined, contemplative, and ascetic path.
”Fără mamă nu se poate iubi. Fără mamă nu se poate muri.”
Narcissus and Goldmund is one of Hesse’s near-misses.
You see, Luther was an semi-innocent, like Goldmund.
Goldmund‘s outlet was art; Luther’s, faith and married love.And Hesse is Narcissus, like Erasmus.
A sophisticated pan-European man of the world, he resented passionate, mystical artists - let’s say, like Rainer Maria Rilke.Rilke could do no wrong in the eyes of his admirers.
And like Luther and Goldmund, he could be mystical in a way few other men were...
He wasn’t a nice, well-meaning, mystical guy like Rilke.As Vonnegut says, he’s mostly second-rate.And that is the reason his masterpieces are all close, but no cigar.
Este livro foi construido em torno de uma temática que muito me fascina e que se relaciona com a oposição passível de existir entre o pensamento e a acção, a teoria e a prática, as ideias e as emoções.
Narciso é o pensamento, a teoria e as ideias, sendo que Goldmund [à letra, a boca de ouro] é a acção, a prática, as emoções.
Dessa sua natureza que é muito mais vida do que aquela que se mantém fechado e enclausurado num mundo à parte!"Narciso e Goldmund" é filosófico que baste, sem ser maçudo.
Ainda que, de certa forma, Hesse tente separar, em certa medida, o mundo das ideias do mundo das emoções.
This beautifully written philosophical novel, that like most of Hesse’s work explores the theme of individual search for self-realization, was a genuine pleasure to read as well as to reflect on later on.
Narcissus and Goldmund is a novel that doesn’t show you the meaning of life, for such a thing is hardly possibile, but what does this novel do is show you what such a search looks like.
What a profound novel it really is!I loved the contrast between the two main characters, Narcissus and Goldmund and the true friendship that exists between them.
Perhaps this book is interesting as an example of the dichotomization of body/mind, angel/whore, ascete/wayfarer.
At best woman is subject here, at worst she so thoroughly blends into the background she's invisible.
More than bleak considering this is a meditation on the roles of the artist and thinker (and never the twain shall meet mind you) in a modern world.
While i suppose Hesse was trying to justify the new free-thinking, free-loving, long hair wearing male artist of the twentieth century, he really does less to exhort new modes of being and more towards the reinforcement of woman-loathing Cartesian dualism.
Η λογοτεχνική απόδοση του νιτσεϊκού δίπολου, της τραγικής ανθρώπινης φύσης που ισορροπεί ανάμεσα στο Απολλώνιο (σύμφωνα με το οποίο το άτομο ενεργεί με βάση του τον ορθολογισμό) και το Διονυσιακό (σύμφωνα με το οποίο η δράση του ατόμου βασίζεται στα συναισθήματα και τα ένστικτα) πρότυπο.
رواية جميلة و عميقة أخرى من روائع هرمان هسه...نرسيس أستاذ غولدموند و صديقه في الدير...
نرسيس ينفذ لأعماق الروح و رأى أن تلميذه غولدموند ذا روح شاعر حرة و لا ينبغي أن يعيش حياة الرهبان مثله...
و لم يعجبني طريق نرسيس فحياته باردة و جافة حد الملل القاتل...سألت نفسي تارة أخرى؟ و لماذا أخيّر نفسي بين أقصى اليمين أو الشمال؟طريقا وسطا بين هذا و ذاك هو ما سأختار...أشعر بـ هسه و في كثير من جمله و كأنه يكاد يقبض على ما يتجلى من وراء كل ما في الكون...
نارتسیس و گلدموندکتابی که اینقدر از خوندنش لذت بردم که واقعاً نمی دونم چطوری باید توضیحش بدم.
شاید کتابی باشه که بد نباشه هرکسی بخوندش.
شاید با خوندنش راه زندگی خیلی ها تغییر کنه.
نارتسیس و گلدموند کتابی بود که برای من همین نقش رو ایفا کرد.
یه روزگاری با خوندن ماهی سیاه کوچولو و بعدتر انجمن شاعران مرده خط سرنوشتم تغییر کرد و جدی تر شد، و الان هم این کتاب باعث شد گلدموند درونم بیدار بشه و راه خودش رو پیدا کنه...از بهترین هدایایی بود که تو زندگیم گرفتمممنون رز سیاه:)سیزدهم دی 1388
قراءة ثانية - بالعربية هذه المرة - منذ عشر سنوات اقترح عليّ صديق أن أقرأ لهيرمان هسة وكانت هذه الرواية وكل رواياته التى أستطعت أن أعثر عليها ولم أندم قط ..بداخل كل منا نرسيس وجولدموند .. بداخلنا نزعة حب الحياة والجنون أحياناً .. وبداخلنا أيضاً الورع والتقوى .. فهل ترجح كفة على الأخرى؟ وهل نمط حياة واحد كافٍ لتعرف طريقك في هذه الدنيا .. لتعرف طريقك إلى الله؟ كانت هذه -وأسئلة أخرى- محور هذه الرواية
Another excellent work by Hesse. The duality of spirit and the contrast between the artistic and intellectual selves.
