https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/763508.Under_Milk_Wood
This ‘play for voices’ follows the lives of the citizens of Milk Wood across a full day, bookmarked by the surrealistically sensational dream sequences of the two nights.
There is the aging sea captain haunted in dreams by pallid corpses speaking from their watery grave, the wife intent on poisoning her husband, the innocent cruelty of children, the lust of the village strumpet and the condescending remarks of those around her; all walks of life exist in the boundaries of this quiet village that could be any village.
Charged by the power of Thomas’ prose, sharpened over a distinguished career as a masterful poet, and alive with the madness and love of life, this ‘play for voices’ is an entertaining and exquisite event to read or listen to.
A sample (read aloud with Welsh accent, sing-song, go up like a question at the end of the line):FIRST VOICEMr Pugh, in the School House opposite, takes up the morningtea to Mrs Pugh, and whispers on the stairs MR.
Of course it helps that like Dylan Thomas I am also from South Wales and have the accent down pat!A little known fact, apparent to all Welsh people but no-one else, is that the village of Llareggub which looks perfectly Welsh is actually the English Bugger All backwards.
I don't know Llarregub about many things, but I do know that Thomas's sloe black, crow black, boat-bobbing, poetic creation was one of the most enjoyable books I read in school.If you haven't yet acquainted yourself with his rich rhetoric and magical mischievousness, then please do!
You can sing along to the bawdy songs of the drunks or listen with blind Captain Cat as he identifies people in their passing by the tap of their steps on the cobbles or the sudden silence of the women pretending not to notice Polly who the police are sure to come after sooner or later.
Thomas's voices are like a tide that's rising and falling in spite of the reader's convenience at the time of the reading.
Like a choir of ghosts ignorant of their unsubstantial nature.
I swear they gave me the chills a number of times while I was reading it during my night shift, not because it was particularly scary but because of the everyday humour and grief that they were drenched in.
Such darkness, such humour, such insolent irony in such a haunting combination I've rarely come across, if ever, in my time as a reader.
For a start you're told as a child that it's full of castles and dragons and daffodils and that there is evil over the border (England) and that Rugby is the one true sport.
I lived outside Cardiff and Thomas was busily engaged in being Welsh in and around the area of Swansea which is just a bit further along the coast.
Part send up, part caricature, part hymn to the eccentricities of a welsh town Under Milk Wood is post war Wales at its colourful best.
"This town's as full as a lovebird's egg."- Dylan Thomas, Under Milk WoodThis book has languished on my shelf.Ignored.Left alone.
I'm trying and dying to read 100 books, during the first 100 days of either the year (closer) or year + Trump's 100 days (more than 100 I guess).
If you have the opportunity to listen to either Dylan Thomas & Co read it, listen.
We follow a few characters as they go from dream to wakefulness and then move through the rest of their day.
Sounds very dull, I know, which is why you have to read (or listen to) it for yourself.In the tradition of small towns (both fictional and nonfictional), everyone has a big secret.
You get to take a walk about the town and see the sights, but beyond that, you also get to see into the people who live there.
And these people sort of hate each other, but they're sort of stuck to the town.
I am still blown away every time I read that first measured sentence, about the woodland ‘limping invisible down to the sloeblack, slow, black, crowblack, fishingboat-bobbing sea’.If you only knew Dylan Thomas from his short poems (as I did before I read this) then prepare for a very pleasant shock.
And surprisingly funny at times: there is a lot of warm, affectionate interplay between the different characters of this sleepy Welsh town, rivalries, fantasies, frustrations, sexual liaisons real and imagined, boredom, dreams – everything you'd expect from small-town life is here.But it's the poetic language that makes me really love it.
“Sundown dazzling day gold through my eyes but my eyes turned within only see starless and bible black…” King Crimson – Starless.Under Milk Wood has a texture of a lyrical myth so it is timeless…People sleep and they dream...
People wake up and they play fools, dawdle, muck around, misbehave, recollect, fantasize and build castles in the air…“There's the clip clop of horses on the sun-honeyed cobbles of the humming streets, hammering of horse-shoes, gobble quack and cackle, tomtit twitter from the bird-ounced boughs, braying on Donkey Down.
Bread is baking, pigs are grunting, chop goes the butcher, milk-churns bell, tills ring, sheep cough, dogs shout, saws sing.
This just takes my breath away.The language. The evocation of time and place.The exquisite rhythm.I'm in love with this piece of work
However, my first experience of it was seeing the film adaptation narrated by Richard Burton, back when I was in high school in the 1970s.
I remember two things about the experience: loving the sound of Richard Burton's voice, and feeling overwhelmed.
They won't stop, and they make the job of the film adapter almost impossible.Since then I've read the play and seen at least one stage production.
However, it took until today, when I saw this production by the Sydney Theatre Company that I came to fully appreciate not just the magic of Thomas' words, but the fact that a stage production really can work.
The great clouds of words no longer overwhelm me.
I remember the first time I came across Under Milk Wood, and it was when I was learning about imagery for my GCSEs. I fell in love with it - and, of course, with Richard Burton's beautiful First Voice.One joy of being an English teacher is teaching your favourite texts to someone new - which I'm pretty sure was what was happening to to me, the first time I was taught this.
And then you can break it down, and explain it to them, and it's a bit like you're showing someone a secret language, a second story just underneath the surface of the one you're reading, and you can watch that kid go from fear and mistrust, to real appreciation of rhythm and metaphor and description and sound - right in front of your eyes.
Centering around one day in a small, unexceptional Welsh coastal town.
From there we watch as they wake up and work, following them out of bed over this one day and then finally back into bed as night falls.The melodic and beautiful use of language creates a charming world, through a lens we affectionately observe all their passions, predicaments, comings and goings.
Thomas views all characters with an easy sympathy, happy to be in their company.
Along with Daffodils, leeks and sheep, Thomas is another with a strong symbolic meaning.
I absolutely loved this radio play. It is a delicious peek into the lives of a sleepy Welsh fishing village and all the intrigues that go on in the peoples' lives. The book is great fun to read in a group but I would recommend you hear the audio version (with Richard Burton as one of the narrators) to get a true feel for the musicality and poetic beauty of this book.
Under Milk Wood is very hard to pin down as it's a mix of so many things, and that's what makes it so astonishingly brilliant.
It delves into the unlikely dreams and nightmares of a small Welsh port town (quite literally), which shocking hinge rather a lot on sex, love, longing and even murder.
Having said that, it is rather hilarious and had me in stitches at one point.
Who said that inbred villagers were boring?
In fact if words could be tasted and felt like tangible things, then the only place you could experience that would be in Under Milk Wood.
Wow... Yup, this is going in my recommendation list to other people whether they ask for it or not.

Here we enter the lives of the residents of Milk Wood, a Welsh seaside town, first through their dreams, then through their daytime interactions with each other. As in all of our lives, some moments are terribly laugh-out-loud funny, some poignantly sad. Dylan Thomas was quite the wordsmith! Sub-titled "A Play for Voices," I would love to hear voices perform this play someday.
WILLY NILLYA book called Lives of the Great Poisoners.[later:]MRS PUGHPersons with manners do not read at table, FIRST VOICEsays Mrs Pugh.
MR PUGHI beg your pardon, my dear, SECOND VOICEhe murmurs with a wheedle.Love:FIRST VOICECaptain Cat, at his window thrown wide to the sun and theclippered seas he sailed long ago when his eyes were blueand bright, slumbers and voyages; ear-ringed and rolling,I Love You Rosie Probert tattooed on his belly, he brawlswith broken bottles in the fug and babel of the dark dockbars, roves with a herd of short and good time cows inevery naughty port and twines and souses with the drownedand blowzy-breasted dead.
Under Milk Wood is exactly what it says it is - a play for voices; and no-one's voice does it more justice than that of Richard Burton, a Welshman whose reading of this work is committed, passionate, resonant, rich and second-to-none.I should also say that this is not a monologue.
Burton is the narrator but there is also a full cast of actors reading all the parts, which brings the play to life and gives it depth.If you liked reading the play, listen to this and feel its power.
I might try listening to it whilst reading it at the same time.The audio version is also available on Spotify.Wonderful stuff.
Masterpiece.
The radio production is superb, with the brilliant Richard Burton articulating the First Voice in his own inimitable style.
A wonderful listening experience.But what of the text?
The words bring to life real people, individuals drawn from Dylan’s past.
Here is a piece that celebrates life, celebrates what it is to be a human being.
It is, unescapably, very Welsh in terms of language and a view of village life, but it manages to encompass all human experience in spite of its parochial setting.
This is one of those rare experiences in life: a perfectly created piece of imaginative storytelling.
The story just flows and it is like music.
The story is about nothing and yet about everything - just the ordinary nuances of life and community.
Time passes.Come closer now.Only you can hear the houses sleeping in the streets in the slow deep salt andsilent black, bandaged night.
Only you can hear and see, behind the eyes of the sleepers, the movementsand countries and mazes and colours and dismays and rainbows and tunes andwished and flight and fall and despairs and big seas of their dreams.
From where you are, you can hear their dreams...
This 1954 BBC recording featuring Richard Burton is a tour de force performance.
Dylan Thomas had a sensitive ear for the rhythms of speech that informed his accentual verse and an imaginative approach to descriptive language that contributed both to his immense popularity during his all-too-brief life and after and to the dismissal of his work by many modern academic poets unable to see his value because of their tunnel-vision views of what modern poetry should be.
To hear his words brought to life by Richard Burton, a fellow Welshman and a fellow roisterer, and by the other members of this talented ensemble is a rare treat indeed.
Thomas was no mean performer himself, both on stage and off, but I think he would have been pleased by Burton's inspired interpretation.
A radio 'feature', rather than a play, according to the introduction to my edition, Under Milk Wood is amazing.
It's full of lively, unique description, a rapidfire sketch of village life.
I can't even pick out a part I like best because all of it is vivacious and interesting.
The description, on the first page, for just one example, of the night, 'starless and bible-black'.
Dylan Thomas knew what he was doing when it came to language, at all times, and it shows.The introduction to this edition, by Walford Davies, is a very good one, giving an idea of the background of the story, context to explain what's going on, bits about Dylan's writing process...
Likely to reward rereading richly, I'd say.
This is technically brilliant. Obviously Dylan was at home with the English lexicon and brought all his poetic prowess to the play, full of alliteration, melody and word play. And then...? There is little substance otherwise, the content falls flat and the concept of witnessing these villagers dreams at night and actions during the day is just too gimmicky. I have gained nothing by witnessing their lives and dreams. A great aesthetic play, but that's where it stops for me.
I first read this when I was 8 years old and, amazingly, it hooked me. The cadence of the lilting Welsh voices was enthralling. I have read it many times since and seen it performed once and heard it performed on radio. One of my favourite plays of all time.
This was quaint as f*ck! And a little strange...
Yet, at the same time, no modern author did more to cement the image of our ancient warrior-race as ‘quaint,’ to use Professor Schama’s notorious expression.Both sides of Dylan are on display in ‘Under Milk Wood,’ his play for voices, probably his most ambitious and most famous work.As one familiar in childhood with New Quay in Cardiganshire, the model for ‘Llareggub’ in the poem, there is no denying that ‘Milk Wood’ is a splendid evocation of time and place – but neither is there any denying that the characters represent an exaggeration of Welshness we have been trying to live down ever since.
