https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/722864.Inside_the_Human_Body
There are true facts in the books but it is also impossible to have the adventures that the class have.There are books about entering a human body, traveling through the solar system, visiting inside a beehive, and traveling back in time to see the dinosaurs, just to name a few.
This book starts off with Ms. Frizzle's class learning about the human body.
The next day, the class goes on a field trip to the science center to learn all about the human body.
They end up being eaten by somebody in their class and travel all through his body.
They travel through the blood vessels all the way to the heart.
The Magic School Bus is a popular, fun-filled science series in which a class of public-school students, led by the eccentric Ms. Frizzle, goes on magical field trips to new and unusual places.
In this episode, their school bus shrinks to miniature size to be swallowed by one of the students.
At the end of each book, the class participates in a traditional review session of what they have learned, and the authors include a brief question-and-commentary section.
I recommend the original series, except for In the Time of the Dinosaurs, which includes a lot of evolutionary theory.
Will I be any less of a book nerd if I say that I like the TV adaptations of this book better than the book?Don't get me wrong: the book is fun and educational, and my son loved it. I love how much it has going on—the story, the little speech bubbles, and the reports.But the TV series splits the human body episodes into at least three, and it gives more opportunity for further detail—instead of just flying through the body, the shows can go into details like how the digestive system works, or how the body fights an illness.
A wonderful read from my childhood, one I’d certainly suggest for other youngsters. Whilst it is not my all-time favourite childhood read I can still recall all the details of this one meaning it certainly left a lasting impression upon my young mind. And isn’t that what we want with children’s books, for them to leave a positive lasting impression?
Personal ResponseI think The Magic School Bus Inside the Human Body is an interesting book.
When Esthur told me that blood is actually blue, I was surprised she knew that.PlotThe Magic School Bus Inside the Human Body is about a class who was learning how the human body functions.
The reason why I think that is because, she drives a magic school bus to unique places.
The reason why I think that, is because the whole class went into Arnold’s body and discovered how the human body works.RecommendationI recommend The Magic school Bus Inside The Human Body for kids between the ages of five through ten.
BLESS U HOOPLA FOR BRINGING THIS LIL RAY OF SUNSHINE BACK INTO MY LIFE
There are end pages too that have things on them from different books like a planet from outer space, a toucan, and a cloud for weather.
This is a book that could be read aloud but I think kids need to read it on their own too to be able to get the full effect of the illustrations because it is so detailed.
I think these books are also fun to do because you can enhance the learning with a video since the magic school bus was made into a cartoon series.
The Magic School Bus Inside the Human Body is a children's book.
A class of elementary students is on a field trip when they stop for lunch.Their bus shrinks down and they are swallowed, so they get a real look at the inside of the human body.
The book is a good way for younger kids to learn science in a fun way.Ms. Frizzle is the teacher in The Magic School Bus Inside the Human Body.
She is not your typical teacher who students think is lame and boring.
I recommend this book to boys and girls in elementary school.
Far beyond the differences between English and American children this book opens up a plethora of learning opportunities for primary school aged children.The book immediately draws you in with beautiful imagery and well designed characterisation, using both good language and comedy appropriate to primary aged children.The story follows a class who have a magical teacher, she manages to shrink their school bus and instead of going on the planned trip they end up inside the body of one of the children in the class.This idea allows children to enjoy reading and learn all about the human body in a very simple, fun and accessible way.
It is part of the Magic School Bus series. Check out my review on Magic School Bus: Inside the Earth to find out more about the series. In this one, Ms Frizzle shrinks the school bus and goes inside Arnold's body. They learn how the human digestive system, nervous system, circulatory system and how muscles work. I liked it because it was funny that Arnold could feel them inside his body. I learned about the human body, it is educational and funny.
THIS BOOK WAS ALSO GOOD AND IT WAS ADVENTUREST AND IT TEACHES YOU THINGS!!!!
All of these elements help the reader to dive into the text in an interactive way.
All of the text features allow for multiple reads of the book, each time the reader should learn something new.
There is no way that a school bus, and the people inside, can shrink and enter the human body.
I think that this could be a benefit however, because the book can be broken up into sections as a child learns about each part of the body, or it could just be read multiple times, each time with new information being discovered.
Inside the Human Body by Joanna Cole is part of the series, The Magic School Bus. It all starts when the students begin learning about the human body in Ms. Frizzle's class.
As the field trip takes an unexpected turn, the students dive deep into their friend Arnold's body and travel through his digestive system, his heart, etc.
I grew up watching the Magic School Bus shows but I had no idea that there were book as well!
So not only are kids thoroughly enjoying this crazy story of a class taking a field trip inside their friends body, they're also learning alot!
In this fun take on an informational book, Ms. Frizzle teaches the students about the human body, and soon after decides to shrink the class for a field trip inside the body. They travel inside of Arnold's body, and learn about the different parts of the body, and their functions. By the end of the day, they make it out the body unscathed, and with a better understanding of the functions of the human body.
I read this book with my reading buddy. It is a fun read with new and difficult words for kids. It teaches about the human body and allows you to ask the kids lots of questions. This story was about Ms. Frizzle telling the kids they were going to a science museum, but instead they went into one of the student's stomach's and bloodstream. It wasn't gross, it was very educational and real. Genre: fiction, picture book, graphic novel perhaps.
I have always been a lover of science. I believe this book is great for students to be introduced to the human body. Even though it's a fiction book due to the fact a school bus obviously can not shrink and go inside the body, it's got several real facts about the human body inside. This would be a great book to grab children's attention in the science area.
Genre: InformationalUnique feature: What is unique about this book is that it presents information to the reader through a story! This makes the text interesting to read- you get to follow the storyline while learning a thing or two about the human body. Grades: 2-4
Miss 2 and I like to explore different books at the library and try to get different ones out every week or so. She loves watching 'The Magic School Bus' and it was great being able to look through it as a book as well. It's so informative and I love the little essays from the kids in the show.
i wasn't sure if Norah would be ready for Magic School bus at age 3 but she is so interested in the human body I thought we would give it a try and she seemed to really like it and stay interested. I'm sure some of it went over her head, but even so, it was a win.
One of the first book series I ever read apart from HP was this one. Piqued my curiosity in science and technology and made me the ever interested soul that I am today. Also a great way to learn about the human body and everything about it.
Another great MSB book! This one describes the digestive, circulatory, respiratory, muscular, and nervous systems--though it doesn't use those terms. The interactions between the systems are illustrated beautifully and this is an attention grabber I plan to have in my middle school classroom.
My child loves this book he now has learnt more about the digestive system.He loves it.💗💟
Love magic tree house for science instruction
Cute read but harder to read in a group with my students.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Another great and exciting adventure for the kids of the magic school bus. They get to travel into the human body this time. Wow.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
