https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22609391-the-wright-brothers
The first photo of flight snapped by a man who was taking his first picture ever. The Wright brothers were very careful to document each stage of their development not only with photography, but also with journals.”The best dividends on the labor invested have invariably come from seeking more knowledge rather than more power.” Wilbur and Orville WrightThey were brothers.As close as two peas in a pod and you could make it three with Katharine, the little sister who also at times provided the ro
The Wright brothers were very careful to document each stage of their development not only with photography, but also with journals.”The best dividends on the labor invested have invariably come from seeking more knowledge rather than more power.” Wilbur and Orville WrightThey were brothers.As close as two peas in a pod and you could make it three with Katharine, the little sister who also at times provided the role of mother and first wife to flight.
This was not always a ‘desirable quality.’ he added, ‘as it makes us too conservative for successful business men, and limits our friendships to a limited circle.’”If you have strong family ties your need for an extended circle of friends certainly diminishes.
Wilbur and Orville credit their mother for their engineering talents.
If any of the children felt like staying home from school for a day, to stay home and read a book, it was alright with their father.
This is seriously a fantastic book about two brothers - a sister - a mom - a dad - their integrity - from family - to business - their passions - their sense of humor - hard work - determination & dedication- - fascinating mechanics of aviation ( fly like birds), ...the historical moments were exciting.
The guys read everything they could about flight and they studied birds obsessively, understanding that birds had a natural design that should be emulated.McCullough tells stories about the boys' childhood, their strong relationship with their father and sister, their early attempts at gliders and flying machines, those famous first flights in 1903 at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina, and finally of their international fame and travels.
In the acknowledgments, McCullough praised the Library of Congress for its collection, and wrote: "In a day and age when, unfortunately, so few write letters or keep a diary any longer, the Wright Papers stand as a striking reminder of a time when that was not the way and of the immense value such writings can have in bringing history to life.
***.Even a writer as fine as McCullough couldn’t bring any excitement to the page in his attempt to chronicle the lives of these two brothers who brought the science of aviation to its ultimate realization.
You can’t belittle their achievement, but following their steps to reach it soon becomes boring.
One of the steps to their success, however, was pretty much minimalized: the obtaining of necessary data using a self-designed wind tunnel.
That instrument allowed them to obtain the data they needed to design and optimize their first planes.
When I finished this book, I felt that I really didn’t know anything more about the brothers.
Having read David McCullough's John Adams, I knew that I would get an education at the very least .Two of the chapter titles so aptly reflect what Wilbur and Orville Wright were all about - "The Dream Takes Hold" and "Unyielding Resolve".
They read books and pamphlets and studied birds and what others before them had attempted and worked on for years .
McCullough does give a glimpse of their childhoods and their family relationships with their father and sister and the encouragement, but it was hard for me to connect with them on that personal level.
Those interested in life changing historical achievements , in aeronautics or are fans of David McCullough will enjoy this book.
Kathleen goes to Oberlin and takes a position as a high school Latin teacher after she returns to the household.Orville and Wilbur, inseparable as twinsWilbur plants the seeds of their journey by sending away to the Smithsonian Institute for literature and resources about the science of flying and history of attempts at human flight.
McCullough’s narrative makes an equally fascinating tale out of the years of effort it took the Wright brothers to create and demonstrate practical models, garner widespread appreciation and understanding of their accomplishment, and attract financing for commercial production.
David McCullough answers that question in his superb book, "The Wright Brothers".
In 1903, the first motorized plane carrying a pilot was flown on the sandy Outer Banks of North Carolina.
France was the first country to embrace the Wright brothers, and a good portion of the book is about their work there.The book includes many photographs, and quotes from letters from the brothers to family and others.
In addition to being a good historian, author David McCullough is also an exciting storyteller.
He really brought the personalities and endeavors of the Wright brothers alive for the reader.
He only flew 120 feet in 12 seconds but it was a turning point in history.The book follows the perfecting of the flying machine, the world-wide acclaim of the Wright brothers and their invention, and the aviation work of others such as Glenn Curtiss and Louis Bléroit (which often resulted in legal suits over patents).
This is a short book, especially for one written by McCullough, but it covers in detail the work and dedication of the Wright brothers which changed the world.
What You Get is Very Good, But I Wanted MoreAnother very good book by David McCullough.
The focus is Orville and Wilbur's flying achievement.
What the book well draws is the excitement and incredulity of man being able to fly, and it looks at how these two brothers did this.
For me the book imparted a clear picture of the personality of the two brothers, their father and their younger sister Katherine.
I want to know more about Wilbur's, Orville's and Katherine's childhood years, and more about their older siblings.
You might be satisfied with a little bit less rather than more!The author narrates his own book.
This is an excellent book about the inventors of the airplane.
I did not realize that for a few years they flew only gliders at Kitty Hawk, before attempting to use an engine for powered flight.Both of the Wright Brothers were detail-oriented.
In fact, they were reluctant to fly together, lest a crash would kill them both without someone to carry on their work.After reading this book, it is hard not to be extremely respectful of the amazing dedication of the Wright Brothers.
I loved this book. I was completely oblivious about the amazing lives of Wilbur and Orville Wright. This book should be required reading for every high school student in the US.
"On July 20, 1969, when Neil Armstrong, another American born and raised in Southwestern Ohio, stepped onto the moon, he carried with him, in tribute to the Wright Brothers, a small swatch of the muslin from a wing of their 1903 Flyer."This was a very thorough bio of Orville and Wilbur, read by the author, the incomparable David McCullough.
I'm not a big fan of bios or non-fiction, so this was a bit dry in parts; but it made me realize what great, honest men they were, how hard they worked for all they achieved, and how well-deserved that 1969 tribute to them on the moon was.
I don’t feel that way after actually reading the book.
In the hands of this master writer, we learn both how important and interesting were Wilbur and Orville and how revolutionary flying was when they brought it about.
I don’t believe anything in my lifetime has equaled taking to the skies in the early 1900s.Wilbur and Orville were unique.
Never showing any interest in getting married, never afraid to go their own way no matter what anyone else thought, and never deviating from the raising of their preacher father, they do not fit the common mold.
The Wright brothers simply do not fit the modern mold especially.
These are the years of the brothers developed an interest in flight, proved their concepts, and then concluded a very successful tour of Europe, demonstrating their mastery of the air.In telling their story, Mr. McCullough also looks at their close family ties, especially with their sister Katherine.
So with the help of one of their employees at their bicycle factory, they designed and built their own.In telling the story of the invention of powered flight, Mr. McCullough illustrates the methodical way the Wrights worked.
"Years later, a friend told Orville that he and his brother would always stand as an example of how far Americans with no special advantages could advance in the world.
the greatest thing in our favor was growing up in a family where there was always much encouragement to intellectual curiosity.'"Growing up, aviation was pretty much everywhere I looked.
McCullough has written an interesting and inspirational biography of the Wright Brothers, including family, with an emphasis on their belief that simplicity, intellectual curiosity, drive and determination were core values that should be instilled at a very young age.
As McCullough documents, the Wright brothers were first class scientists and engineers who accomplished a feat which was believed to be impossible.David McCullough, who authored on of the great engineering works of all time The Brooklyn Bridge, carefully documents the life and works of the two brothers from Dayton.
He explains the reluctance of the press and governments around the world to believe that manned flight had been achieved by these men.
And then he shows how that all changed with the world becoming aware of these accomplishments.The Wrights financed their own endeavors without governmental or corporate support.
Amazing story of Orville and Wilbur Wright's intrepid efforts to create human flight.
Their creativity, ingenuity, perseverance, and thirst for knowledge and understanding was truly remarkable, starting with a letter to the Smithsonian asking for references and their intense study of birds.McCullough's research is impeccable, from their bicycle designs to their efforts to find the ideal location for testing (desolate, windy Kitty Hawk), following their triumphs and setbacks, having to find support overseas as the U.S. thought others had a better chance to succeed.
Their single-mindedness and dedication is nicely supplemented by stories of string friendships wherever they went.
Parts of the story were a bit dry or slow, which is why I did not give 5 stars.
The Wright brothers using inexpensive materials and technology learned from building bicycles to accomplish powered flight for a total cost of about $1,000.
In retrospect they were visiting Europe during the prosperous climax of the Edwardian age a couple years prior to World War I.The brothers spent much of their time in later years defending their patents.
David McCullough brings empathy and a sense of wonder to the Wright legend, and also reveals the crucial role that their overlooked sister, Katherine, played in their story.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
I don't have a particular interest in aeronautics so am hazy on any details of the subject.I found the Wright brothers to be a delightful duo and their family to be solid and interesting.
It was really nice to read about a family that supported each other.The brothers were genius.
This story reads easily, like a novel.I started by listening to the book on audio, which is narrated by the author.
This story lends itself really well for the audio format.
I listened to 1/3 of the book in this format.However, I only listen during my commutes and went on vacation.
Curling up with a David McCullough book is like climbing into your grandfather's lap in his favorite armchair and whispering, "Tell me a story..." It's both comfortable and exciting, familiar and spellbinding.McCullough breathes such humanity into this history of Wilbur and Orville Wright, their family, friends, colleagues and adversaries, that I cheered, shouted, laughed, cried and soared right along with the famed aviators. Told with a passion and skill that far exceeds most fiction writers, McCullough has produced yet another masterful, true-life story that had me losing sleep and on the edge of my seat. An absolute must-read!
Some wonderful details and great writing about the birth of flight. The ending came a bit abruptly, but I think that's because I wanted more.
I haven't read nearly enough of David McCullough's books.
This is my second and I loved it.The story of the Wright Brothers is as fascinating as it is incredible.
From this book I learned that they were hard working men and SO determined.
Never did they give up-despite the failure of numerous tests.
They camped out, in tents and outbuildings when performing their aerial testing-often coming close to running out of food.
I recommend this book to anyone even slightly interested in learning more about the Wright Brothers.
This was an interesting and fun journey and I can't wait to read or listen to more of McCullough's works in the future.
McCullough is a master story in my book 2nd only to DKG. Learned much of wright family in this captivating read.
At times the author presents some fairly technical details but he does so in a manner that can be appreciated by all.The focus of McCullough’s book is the development of the airplane between the years 1900 and 1909 by the Wright brothers.
Meanwhile, there were other well-funded consortiums trying to develop an airplane.
The French were also trying to develop a plane but their efforts could barely get off the ground while the Wright Brothers were flying figure-eight patterns and staying airborne for 30 minutes at a time.
This was at the same time the brothers were developing their plane.
I thought this book was great.
It's one thing to have fun playing with your own iOS app.
Another thing to strap yourself into some crazy kite-shaped contraption, attach a home made motor, turn on the propeller you just invented, and fling yourself 20 stories in the air, hoping to land.Also full of interesting anecdotes about their lives, the painful and rewarding process of invention, travels through Europe to demonstrate their new "flying machine", and amazingly, how long it took to get people to believe them once they had actually invented flying.
(they couldn't exactly take a video and post it to Instagram.) Great read.
Non-fiction about the lives of the Wright brothers, with a good portion of the book focused on invention of the airplane, test flights, and public exhibitions.
They were two men with dreams and determination.Where this this biography differs from others is that it includes not only Wilbur and Orville, but the immediate family members, including sister Katharine, a teacher, and father Milton, a clergyman.
McCullough did an excellent job of showing the character of the Wright family members through including relevant passages from their numerous letters.
The audio book was competently read by the author.
McCullough offers up and wonderful, though brief, biographical piece on the Wright Brothers, whose ideas and curiosities exemplify how boundless determination can literally turn the world on its head.
A great piece to interest any reader curious about the dawn of flight.Wilbur and Orville Wright could easily be called the great Dayton inventors.
McCullough shows throughout the text that neither brother would accept the common argument that man was not meant to conquer the air, choosing instead to find a way, through their inventive minds, to bridge the gap.Once they'd developed a prototype idea, the Wrights set their sights to become Ohio innovators, honing their craft outside Dayton.
A quintessential American story told by the master of historical narrative. We are carried along with Wilbur and Orville as they ply the skies in their magnificent flying machine. We can feel the excitement and astonishment of the crowds as they watch. We witness the years of planning, preparation and hard work that led to their success. The ingenuity, zeal, vision, determination and attention to detail exhibited by this pair are amazing and just a few of the accolades that could be used. An inspiration and a page turner. Recommended for everyone.
“The best dividends on the labor invested have invariably come from seeking more knowledge rather than more power.” Signed Wilbur and Orville Wright, March 12, 1906.” This is one of my favorite quotes from the Wright brothers captivating story that epitomizes how instilling a thirst for knowledge and self reliance leads to an eminence that transcends what can come from a college degree or formal training.
McCullough tells a fascinating story not only focusing on historical events, but on the familial and community bonds that helped contribute to the Wright Brothers' greatness.
The closeness of Wilbur, Orville & Katherine was heartwarming.
" Architect and Building News "Encourage Your Boy," as quoted in The Wright BrothersDavid McCullough's biography of Orville and Wilbur Wright was a pleasure to read.
"All the money anyone needs is just enough to prevent one from being a burden to others." Orville and Wilbur's father, Bishop Milton Wright, was a sage and forward thinking man.
And it inspired Paul Poiret to design the "hobble skirt."Overall, despite being a bit short-sighted scientifically and a bit abrupt in anti-climatic conclusion, I found this an engaging and curiously satisfying biography.
