https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/100352.Life_in_a_Medieval_City
"Anything written in a book has a certain sacredness, all the established authors are authorities, and all are timeless, from Aesop to Horace."- Joseph & Frances Gies A nice survey of Troyes in 1250 AD.
Joseph and Frances Gies examine everything from medicine to women to the church and cathedrals in Medieval Europe, focusing their historical lense on Troyes, which at the time was a prosperous center of commerce in Europe.
This book is written for general readership and seems to always jump to the next chapter just as soon as my interest was piqued.
Troyes: 12502.
Small Business7.
Big Business8.
Understandably a classic of social history. I enjoyed learning that in 13th century Europe pepper was was so expensive (though not the most expensive of spices available, those were saffron and cinnamon) that pepper sellers would sell individual peppercorns to housewives. Enjoyable social history centered in 13th century Troyes, France.
Life in a medieval city describes the lifeways and material culture and laws of the city of Troyes in the high middle ages. I can imagine for people above a certain social station life might be tolerable that seems always the case. Gives a look at the texture of life in the times.
It covered all aspects of city life in the 12th and 13th centuries in Europe.
The focus was mainly on what life was like in Troyes, France, but the authors also compared Troyes to various other European cities.The content was technical (as in, serious research rather than interesting trivia), but the writing wasn't dry.
I'd recommend it to anyone wanting to know the details about what life was like in a European city in the 12th and 13th centuries.
Taking the reader through a 'typical' medieval city, in this case Troyes in 1250, the Gies' introduce us to all aspects of everyday life throughout the year - from schools and scholars, to authors and tanners, to the famous Hot and Cold Fairs that ran for a few centuries.
Discovering what people ate, wore, how they interacted, the imposition of taxes, the return to Roman Laws and courts (and the increasing importance of lawyers who were despised back then LOL!), makes for fascinating reading.
As a fantasy writer, these sorts of fact-filled and page-turning books are invaluable.
This volume zeroes in on the walled city of Troyes, Champagne region of France, in the year 1250, at the peak of its popularity for hosting not one but two medieval trade fairs each year.
-- Most retail sales were performed on an abacus, Arabic numerals had not yet come completely into use, but the exigencies of multiple trade fairs in the Champagne region each year led to the proliferation of retail contracts and even the beginnings of "commercial paper" -- re-selling loans and delivery contracts.
I came across this in our basement, it was from one of Stephanie's classes at Alma College. Fairly interesting and quick read. I liked how it was organized by topic: A Medieval Housewife, Small Business, The Doctor, and Disasters to name a few. Most interesting to me were A Burgher's Home and The Doctor. This book gave me a greater appreciation for how difficult life was and included details that get glossed over in even the best literature and film on this period.
This book allowed me to truly lose myself in the year of 1250, in the up and coming city of Troyes, as I a normal person of the time as I navigated through the local customs, laws, and every day life.
When eating dinner, I would share a bowl of water to wash my hands with my neighbor, and we would have no soap available to us.
If found guilty, I would likely be put to death since there is no prison available to me.
It sounds like women had more rights than I imagined.
Having children was a bit trickier than I would like.
The more I read about the middle ages, the more I get the impression that it was a society composed of children.
As this book makes clear, it was an era of progress, of technical and economic innovations, where people were weaning themselves off the stupor of the dark ages.
This book was a quick, easy, charming read that tries to bring you back in time to Troyes, a French city, during the middle ages.
Each chapter described one element of life at the time, how people worked during the day, how they ate, where their clothes came from, how education worked, marriage, birth, and death.
It took me three starts over many years, but I finally got around to finishing this book. It's very informative, and great for people just starting out with the Middle Ages. The main theme running throughout the novel was the fairs. However, I'd say this wasn't a strong enough narrative thread to pull me along. It could've been better written, but it is what it is--a very good place to start.
A classic of social history, Life in Medieval City uses Troyes in 1250 to explore the ordinary life of the small yet prosperous bourgeois.
This is an age of relative stability and wealth.
A system of interlocking guilds regulates the cities, and the sophistication of stone walls against the relatively crude military logistics of the age favors defenders.
Troyes is situated to mediate trade between the weavers of Holland and Europe, and the great markets of the Mediterranean, with winter and summer fairs the source of the city's wealth.
Highly informative! I enjoyed this one :) Just wish it hadn't taken me so long, lol
The emergence and role of the guilds is covered very well, both from a historical and from a sociological perspective.I also learned the proper etiquette for how a doctor should ask for compensation, which as far as I'm concerned he fully deserved, given his job entailed tasting his patients' urine for sweetness.The weddings are covered here, the church as an institution and the cathedrals as both objects of art and feats of engineering.
Occasionally there is a mention of the peasants, but there is very little in traditional histories about the medieval city.
Thanks to trade and agriculture surplus, however, the city dwellers of Europe grew rich quite fast and used their wealth to improve their social standing.
It was this class, with its combination of manual and conceptual skills, which ultimately ushered in the industrial revolution.I was looking for a book dealing with the medieval city for quite some time and this one proved to be quite satisfactory.
This book is a snapshot of the city in the thirteenth century.

This book was recommended by my Western Civ professor. I found the reading rather tedious at times and would recommend skipping the introduction entirely as it is just a fact dump that has no context to keep up with. Each chapter was organized as a focus on a certain topic, the cathedrals, the markets, the burghers, the home. This sorting made sense from an organization perspective, but it left the book feeling rather disjoint, almost like separate wikipedia entries. All this being said, it was full of information and worth a read if this is topic of interest to you.
There are a lot of interesting details about life in the middle ages in this book. Some chapters were more interesting than others, but I believe that's because I was in search of more of the daily lifestyle of the time, rather than the information about its institutions. Still I made note of the government and church laws as points to remember. What I really liked was that the entire book is written in the present tense, so I often forgot I was reading about a time so long ago.
This series of medieval life books by Gies gives a solid overview of the various day-to-day happenings during the period as well as the pulse points of historically pivotal moments as they affected the Europeans of the time. It's perhaps not riveting reading for anyone other than history buffs. However, I've found it mildly entertaining and in the very least quite useful for research.
I found this book readable and informative. Because this a book by -good- amatter historians, the writing is essential stilted and more readablE, something like reading a well-written historical fiction book.
The Medieval era covered such a large expanse of time and though the rate of change was slower, technology changed a lot.
We're told medieval people believed in witchcraft, but did they really?
It's highly likely that medieval humans didn't *really* believe in witchcraft, either.
People have always needed scapegoats.Apart from the obvious technological advancements, after reading this I doubt medieval humans were all that different from the most conservative people of today.
Standing on the crossroads of trading routes, Troyes became an important fair city.
One of the proofs for this status is that it was among ten French cities which held an international fair and Troyes held them twice a year!
One of the contemporaries listed 288 kinds of spices, some of which were worth their weight in gold – figuratively if not literally.(view spoiler)[These fairs gave a significant push to the city and in the XIII century the only one to surpass it in the North of the country was Paris.
A couple of times I found myself flashing on one scene or another from “Game of Thrones.” Imagine my delight in reading the following in the afterword of the book:“Life in a Medieval City” [was] identified by George R.
And now I plan to read “Life in a Medieval Castle,” too.
This is the kind of history I enjoy, the kind where war is not the only thing worth documenting!
It was a market city, so the reader can find out about business in those days, contracts, how the fair was managed, the schools and books and authors, and how the church was involved.
There are chapters on the theater and childbirth and doctors and town government and the typical medieval housewife.A final chapter talks about how the changes in business and money handling led to the demise of the great fairs but became the foundation for business and enterprise in the succeeding centuries.
If you would like a clear view of life in a medieval city, this is the book to read.
With strident prose the author covers an amazing variety of small facts; the things most history books gloss right over but actually illuminate what life was like for many, and how the day to day worked while the "big history" was made elsewhere.
Each chapter is filled with fascinating minutiae of a midwife's practice, a smith's tools and techniques, the preparation and consumption of food in a burgher (proto-middle class) household, the credit lines available to cloth merchants, the contents of people's favorite books and songs, and a hundred other things that make up daily life.
The king did not have all the power and money to do as he wished.
Banks existed, and they did not provide kings with all the money they could possibly need...if it was known that said monarchs would not pay them back.
Books were read, and arithmetic and religion and theory taught at formal universities (for boys of course).
These are only a few of the fascinating, formerly misunderstood facts you will learn if you read this book.
Read on; after all, that's what George R R Martin did, and if that's not reason enough to read this book, I don't know what is.
Well illustrated and showing the evolution of villages to towns to cities, as well as the influence of Roman laws and the effect of the Romans leaving, the city development has an organic development.I especially liked how early versions of the city had many green spaces in the city confines that only slowly disappeared as the population expanded.
I suspect that some of the green spaces we see in various cities through out Europe are remnants of these historical spaces.Well worth reading if you like historical fiction at the least, in order to gain a sharper image of how life was lived in Medieval times and before.
I picked this up when I saw it on Bookbub and for $2 it's a bargain.
Here is an introduction to life in a medieval city, in particular the city of Troyes, France, in the mid thirteenth century.
It's easy, engaging reading with each chapter focusing on a different aspect of life (business, children, schools to name but three).
There will be a plethora of interesting insights for all but the most hardened history buff.Recommended too for lovers of medieval fantasy.
I will be picking up the other books in this series, Life in a Medieval Castle and Life in a Medieval Village.
My bad. For some reason, I wasn't really expecting a text book. But that's basically how this reads. It is fairly short though, and the authors work hard to keep it interesting. Even so, over the course of 3 weeks, I mostly found myself scrolling IG on my phone, playing Free Cell, and reading articles instead of picking up this book. In the end, I did finish it and I even gleaned some interesting historical perspective on current French bread law, and also the Italian culture that has fostered the arts and craftsmen so well. So overall, a worthwhile read.
Interesting readI enjoyed this book on medieval living. Having really only a touch on the age in school, then zillions of fantasy books is nice to see a bit of reality tossed on top. Really wish they had freshened the pictures, seemed unfocused, and splitting the maps in two really only works in a bound book. A little tiresome in spots, but easy to read and some fun interesting descriptions. Boo to the publishers for the poor illustrations and a number of glaring misspellings.
"Life in a Medieval City" presents a fascinating look at the town of Troyes as it was in 1250, covering such topics as a burgher's home, weddings and funerals, small business, the Church, and the Champagne Fair in detail. It is written in present tense, as if the reader were walking through the town and watching its residents as they go about their daily tasks. Footnotes are extensive and call on many sources. The author corrects many wrong ideas about the 13th century and well as placing Troyes within the flow of history through and around it.
