https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17332846-that-evening-sun
That Evening Sun, William Faulknerعنوان: وحشت از سیاهی شب؛ نویسنده: ویلیام فاکنر؛ مترجم: هانیه نبوتی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، کوله پشتی، 1388، در 64 ص، اندازه 14 در 10 س.م.؛ مجموعه داستانهای کوتاه از ادبیات کلاسیک جهان، شابک: 9786005337082؛ موضوع: داستانهای امریکایی قرن 20 مداستان «وحشت از سیاهی شب» با معرفی «نانسی»، زن رخشتوی سیاهپوست، آغاز و به بیان شرایط سخت زندگی او در جامعه سفیدپوستان و بیش از همه در كنار همسرش جیزر میپردازد.ا
That Evening Sun, William Faulknerعنوان: وحشت از سیاهی شب؛ نویسنده: ویلیام فاکنر؛ مترجم: هانیه نبوتی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، کوله پشتی، 1388، در 64 ص، اندازه 14 در 10 س.م.؛ مجموعه داستانهای کوتاه از ادبیات کلاسیک جهان، شابک: 9786005337082؛ موضوع: داستانهای امریکایی قرن 20 مداستان «وحشت از سیاهی شب» با معرفی «نانسی»، زن رخشتوی سیاه‌پوست، آغاز و به بیان شرایط سخت زندگی او در جامعه سفیدپوستان و بیش از همه در كنار همسرش جیزر میپردازد.ا
I really wish I had read this around the same time that I read The Sound and the Fury since it features some of the same characters. This book focuses on race relations in the south and showcases the indifference of the Compson family to the life of their servant. The prose is beautiful and it was interesting to see the same characters from The Sound and the Fury
I think I'm starting to like Faulkner with this short story...
I don't know much about the author before I attended the classes of literature introduction, my teacher has been analyzing A Rose For Emily for several weeks intensively.
That analysis indeed aroused my interests in Faulkner and I read some of his works through recent weeks.
Many of his works are really impressive, the plot, the theme, the diction(a lot of big words...as a ESL learner they are indeed a little bit confuse me) But actually the most difficult thing is that it's hard for me to grasp what the author Faulkner want to convey to us between the sentences.
My only complaint with this short story? It ends and I want to know "what happens next?" The dialogue, the setting, the darkness of the story, the perfectly explained characters---all of it makes you want to read all his great little short stories.
Faulkner is one of my absolute favorite short story writers. He is the king of leaving me scratching my head and going “hmmmmmmm”. This short story is none different. Classic Faulkner!
Read for COLT class -- The Problem of the Vernacular. Interesting
It reminds me of one of those murder mysteries (without an actual murder occurring) on 24 Hours: Hard Evidence. Captivated me the whole way through.
I was ashamed to see that there is no review about this meaningful story.
On the other hand I've become happy to know that it's gonna be the first and also a positive review about this story.
Faulkner generally tells the life in South but he talks about misery there -like Kate Chopin.
He is sceptic about reality and you can find this fact also in this story.
rich-poor black-white man-woman ..
sound so typical but this story is very different from the ones trying to criticize Racism.
That's why I loved it.Little Jason shows us how one isn't born but raised up as a racist."I ain't a nigger."
Read for American LitWe were studying Faulkner this week and I admit that I may have sped through this one because I wanted to take the test on his work while As I Lay Dying was still fresh in my mind but this was also very well-written and desperate and haunting. 3.5 stars.
توصیف های خیلی زیبا از ویزگی های این کتاب بود که خوندنش رو لذت بخش می کنه
It made me want to read The Sound and the Fury, once again.
Will not live long in the memory. But readable.
A good Faulkner short story, with many of the same characters from The Sound and the Fury.
