https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25480342-a-monster-calls
So for these three long years I've lied to myself; saying things like "it was his time" and "there was nothing I could do to stop it" all of those things that people  want  you to say and expect to hear after the death of a loved one.
And I learned from A Monster Calls that it's okay to be selfish like that, because you need to be able to say that you want to hold onto the people you love most before you can truly let go.
I can remember everything that night through those shakes, my little sister screaming, my mom calling and asking in garbled speech if I wanted to see my dad's body one more time before the funeral.
Please excuse my ramblings, I read A Monster Calls in three hours and I am still extremely emotional.
I should not have been given access to a computer after such a powerful book.As I am writing this, there are still tears coursing down my face--black from my mascara.
I may look like something straight out of a horror movie, but my soul feels lighter somehow.
This book is raw and emotional and cathartic.
It deals with grief, loss, and anger in ways I have never read about before, but only experienced.
I don't know what else to say except that everyone should read this book at least once.
I got back to my apartment in Bulgaria and thought I'd read a little bit of this novel before I went to bed. 2 hours later I was still sat in my original position but by this time I was sobbing my heart out. Literally sat there crying like a baby to myself. I doubt this book will be everyone's cup of tea but, whatever it has, it really worked it's magic on me.I thought A Monster Calls was pretty much amazing in every way; from it's darkly beautiful illustrations (worth buying a paper copy for)
I doubt this book will be everyone's cup of tea but, whatever it has, it really worked it's magic on me.I thought A Monster Calls was pretty much amazing in every way; from it's darkly beautiful illustrations (worth buying a paper copy for) to the great big touching metaphor that is the backbone of the story.Didn't like The Knife of Never Letting Go?
Think again.Like I said, this is a very different sort of idea (credit to the late Siobhan Dowd) and not the kind of book where you can guess where it's going.
I just read this book from cover to cover.I have no idea how to rate it.It is the worst book I've read.I would never be able to recommend it,because I hated it.It's ripped my heart in two.It'll make you think of losing the one person who means the most to you. Or it'll make you think of those you've already lost.It's not a happy book, but it's an important one.
As readers learn more and more about Conor's story and the terrible monster who comes to visit, it is impossible not to feel worry and fear and sadness for this boy, whose must shoulder problems that have toppled many adults before him.
In just 215 pages, A Monster Calls shatters your heart and then wraps it up tightly again so that you can go and be present in the world as an infinitely wiser, more loving human being.About the Illustrations:The words themselves are powerful and full of terrible beauty and latent emotion.
”The monster showed up just after midnight. As they do.”Seven minutes after midnight ANDone hour after finishing the book:*sits in a pile of tissues and  STILL  weeps*<--- This was me on Saturday.This is me now, four days after reading the book:*sits down to write a proper review but immediately starts to cry again* I can’t write a review about this book, I just can’t!!!  Heaven knows I’ve tried to, but whenever I think about “A Monster Calls” I’m tearing up again. Just to think about this bo
weeps*<--- This was me on Saturday.This is me now, four days after reading the book:*sits down to write a proper review but immediately starts to cry again*
Heaven knows I’ve tried to, but whenever I think about “A Monster Calls” I’m tearing up again.
Maybe it’s the entire book, maybe it’s the monsters painful wisdom, maybe it’s just the bitter truth?All I know is that this story moved me.
>_<”Your mind will believe comforting lies while also knowing the painful truths that make those lies necessary.
Because as the mother of a child to read this book was so very painful.
Such a beautiful and gripping story. I feel like this is one of those books that will stay with you long after you've read it.
My first rating in January on this book was 4 stars.
I couldn't figure out why, I just didn't love the story.
My main issue when I first read it was that I wanted more of an ending, or perhaps more before the ending.
With that said, I've pondered over it and feel this book deserves 5 stars.It's a book I'd still recommend to anyone and I'm very much looking forward to seeing the movie.The illustrations by Jim Kay make the book feel so real.
This is a book I want to keep forever.5**** to one powerful story.Watched the movie and loved it, but not as much as the book...
Whyin the world did I re/read this right now!YES...THIS BOOK IS A HEART BREAKER :(Conor's mom is dying, he won't believe it.
I like to think it is a little of both.
Conor was hoping the yew tree monster would visit him at her house and he finally did...
"I've been thinking it for the longest time," Connor said slowly, painfully, struggling to get the words out.
She said she was getting better because that's what I wanted to hear.
The yew monster tells stories to Conor, trying to teach him something until he gets to the last story and has to leave.
i knew nothing about it except that something in me bellowed "WANT!" i did not win it in the firstreads giveaway (naturally) and as more and more people began writing reviews for it, i discovered that it was not at all the kind of book i had thought (spooky horror), and was in fact something far more insidious and lasting.WHY AM I TELLING YOU ALL OF THIS?1) this is how all my reviews are.
read it, write a better review than i have, and then gather your loved ones to you.come to my blog!
TEAR JERKER ALERT!TEAR JERKER ALERT!OMG, I’m a 40-plus-year-old DUDE and I almost lost it a couple of times.There is not always a happy ending.
As any reader of Cormac McCarthy knows, sometimes the best ending is not the one that leaves us all warm and fuzzy.Patrick Ness’s 2011 short novel was based on a concept from Siobhan Dowd, who died of cancer in 2007 at the age of 47, way way too soon.
In this young adult novel (but also for the rest of us) young Conor O’Malley is dealing with the terminal illness of his single mother.
re-read in 2018Still incredible. Of course. I actually listened to the audiobook this time around (while flipping through the book to experience the gorgeous illustrations again) and it was FANTASTIC. Jason Isaacs read the book, and of course it was a pleasure to have him tell this story. I recommend this to every single person ever. first read in 2012This book was so beautiful.
It's half past midnight, I'm an ugly sobbing mess and I think that noise I just heard was either my soul ascending to another dimension or my heart -or what's left of it-breaking in my chest.
I hate this book so much.It touched me in some very sensitive spots, rubbed its salty and bookish paws against wounds that are still too fresh for it to not hurt like hell.
The way it's written, the timing, the darkness behind the words.
A sharp and bleeding piece of heart disguised as a 200-something-page novel.
Gosh, what a book.
A. Book.
A Monster Calls has to be the most inventive book I've read this year.
If you haven't read A Monster Calls, I suggest you immediately purchase it.
I remember the first time a book made me cry like this.
I was in eighth grade in my English class, sitting under my desk in the back of the room reading A Walk to Remember.
Unfortunately, I know that feeling all too well now and that is the reason I was initially afraid to read A Monster Calls.
So, how do you write a review for a book that makes you remember?
my favorite book until i die
Occasionally, I find a book that is moving and resonant - and I will both love it and feel jealous of it, for being able to articulate things I never could.
Books that somehow translate raw emotion into words, that create a mirror out of ink and paper, reflecting back things I know to be deeply true and real (to me, at least).
I strongly believe that grief and death are deeply personal things that no one experiences in exactly the same manner.
But I'm afraid I simply couldn't find a way to write about this book without my own experiences seeping in.
Tears. Lots of them.
He kept it all in: his indomitable worry for his mother’s health, his hatred for his grandmother whom wanted to take him away from his beloved parent, his sadness at growing without a father and the solitude that he felt at school while being surrounded by people who showed pity, avoided Conor or bullied him…every single day.But there was the monster too.
He didn’t want to see, acknowledge or tell this truth.
It was more than I even hoped for.As the majority of noticeable books being found on this planet though, A Monster Calls carried a weakness, especially characterization-wise.
❝Your mind will believe comforting lies while also knowing the painful truths that make those lies necessary. And your mind will punish you for believing both.❞  Thank you Goodreads for graciously sending me a signed copy of A Monster Calls!I'm not crying because this book is sad. I'm crying because this book is my story. It's my family's story. It's my mom's story. A Monster Calls was a difficult book to read. I've seen many readers say they've cried because of the words written on these page
But I've lived this book.My mother died of breast cancer two years ago at the age of 44.
I lived the day when the doctors told my mom that she had breast cancer.
It's made me confront all kinds of emotions I've been trying to avoid since the day my mother passed.Although I was reading this book through Connor's eyes, it was like reliving the tough year my family had to endure together while my mom fought the battle of her life.
It was okay to let go.A Monster Calls wasn't a book that I would typically read, but I'm glad I did.
And reading Ness' note at the end...he was just bringing this one thought to the table: having conflicting emotions.
My eyes were hot and damp (ok no tears fell but I'm not a physical crier) and right now I just want to curl up in a ball and (1) HURT and (2) hope that I can convey emotion so brilliantly in my own writing someday.Although ps I read it as a novel without the illustrations (blame the library tho, I tried to reserve the illustrated edition) and tbh why does it even exist without the pictures.
I love books that think outside the box.
This is great book!  A BOOK FOR EVERYBODY Very quick to read so if you are interested on it.You'll find out that you'd read it in no time. Also, it helps that it's a page turner, since the story has many elements to keep you hooked to it.I hate to classify books for some specific age, since I think that books shouldn't have any age or genre. Books should be read by men or women at any age and they should be as good as effective. However, one can't deny that the author made this story thinking i
Books should be read by men or women at any age and they should be as good as effective.
For readers who are looking for stories where there aren't good people or bad people but just people, this is your book.
This story will provoke you many moods and states, you will smile at some moment, you will hate at other, you will cry in yet another.And all that it's okay.I think that this book should be to be read at some moment in your lives.Please, don't let that those labels of "children", etc...
i think this is honestly the best book about grief and coping that i have ever read. it was a wonderfully imaginative and truly insightful story. i love how it expressed such a tender subject in a really wild, but gentle, way. i wish i had half the creativity and story-telling ability that patrick ness has. i cant believe such a powerful message was held within such a tiny book. it just goes to show that you dont need a lot of words to impact someone if they are the right words. ↠ 5 stars
I am this wild earth, come for you Conor O’Malley.” I enjoyed this tale, though I have to admit I wasn’t as blown away as the masses of other reviewers seemed to be.
Conor, a young boy whose mother is terminally ill, is visited by a monster every night at 12.07.
The focus on human nature and how every person is complex.
Most people are somewhere in between.” Conor’s struggles with his mother’s illness, his dislike of his grandmother, troubles at school and a brief visit from his absent father all make the situation very real and difficult.
(I'll have you know cancer's ass got beat and she's still in remission after almost 9 full years) Cancer books are always hard for me to read, which I think is why I put this one off for so long, but suffice it to say, I'm glad I picked it up.
I'm not sure what I could possibly say that hasn't been said yet about this book, but it was wholly moving and by far the richest book I've read in years.
“Stories are wild creatures. When you let them loose, who knows what havoc they might wreak?”Find more of my books on Instagram
BOOKTUBEATHON 2016 BOOK #7Well I am a hot mess of emotions right now. This book was so good and so important. It handled grief so well and I just...I am emotional. I think this book is very important and that lots of people should read it and yeah, that's about it.THERE WERE TEARS.
It's not a story, it's A Monster.Don't read it if u r upset..or have a fearing.. don't read it if u lost someone close...don't rRead it..get it all out..Call the Monster.."القصص كائنات وحشية، عندما تطلقها من يدري ما الدمار الذي يمكن ان تخلفه"“Stories are wild creatures, When you let them loose, who knows what havoc they might wreak?” It's not a story, it's a Wreaking Ball.وهذه القصة مقصود أن تخلف دمارا، وجعا بالروح..عن الألم، الحزن، الفقدان، العيش بعد موتA friend told me it's a life lesson.. no,
don't read it if u lost someone close...don't rRead it..get it all out..Call the Monster.."القصص كائنات وحشية، عندما تطلقها من يدري ما الدمار الذي يمكن ان تخلفه"“Stories are wild creatures, When you let them loose, who knows what havoc they might wreak?”
living with pain..living with dying..and life after death.In a very simple story yet with very deep feelings.The theme of losing a closed ones due to this cursed illness.., all these hard times..all the pain.Even if you're just away of all that, reading these vivid characters you'll feel the pain, you can sympathy and have an understanding for those who had that first handed.قصة عميقة مقدمة بشكل بسيط جدا، من وجهة نظر صبي في الثالثة عشر من عمره، ووحش قديم قدم الزمان والارضالقصة *****هي قصة كونر أومالي، فتي في الثالثة عشر أمه مصابة بالمرض الخبيثكل يوم يحلم ذلك الكابوس، حتي أتاه يوما وحشا .
I feel like every time I love a YA book I start my review with "I don't read a lot of YA, but..." So, I don't read a lot of...
If you haven't read the Chaos Walking trilogy then please put everything in your life on hold and go find a copy of The Knife of Never Letting Go. This is the only book I've read from him outside of that series, but this book is just as amazing.
The movie looked really good, I recognized the author, one thing led to another, yada yada yada, and I finished the book in one sitting.
Then I put everything else by Ness on hold at my library.
My heart is aching.
Maybe I’m just cold-hearted and mean, but I spent most of this novel waiting for the shoe to drop and for the floodgates to open, and they never did which kind of impeded my reading experience, and that’s really the only reason I can’t give this book five stars.
Other than that it was perfect and thought-provoking and layered with some of the most complex characters I’ve ever read about with some of the most painfully relatable relationships I’ve ever seen explored in any novel.
Not that it needs my rave reviews but this book is art, and I recommend anyone and everyone to read it, even if it didn’t make me cry.
