https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76808.Telling_the_Truth
Buechner examines the arc of the gospel using the well known genres of tragedy, comedy, and fairy tale--that is, bad news, good news, and transformation or fantasy.
I don't agree with all of Buechner's statements--some of his descriptions of the tragedy of the gospel (that is, sin and the fallen world) seem to undermine the sovereignty of God, and his discussion of the gospel as comedy (the unexpected and ridiculous love of God) borders on irreverent or unclear.
Given modern usage of 'joke' and 'comedy', the terminology could be confusing.The general point of the book seems to be that the gospel is not just a bunch of theological facts, but a story that preachers must experience for themselves before they can share it with others.
There are two kinds of really good books - the first you devour as quickly as possible - marathon reads... The second you savour, slowly nibbling and sipping at the edges, stopping and pondering. This is one of the second...
Buechner has many valid points, many brilliant ones, some that make us scratch our head, but all fascinating. He writes somewhat like Rosenstock-Huessy—that almost stream-of-consciousness prose that rolls and tumbles and spins and defies an editor’s pen. The only time the spell falters is when he throws out an image simply too startling for us to swallow, and then we realize that he might have been making it up all along. Still, an insightful and provocative read.
My favorite quote lies within "The Gospel as Tragedy":"There would be a strong argument for saying that much of the most powerful preaching of our time is the preaching of poets, playwrights, novelists because it is often they better than the rest of us who speak with awful honesty about the absence of God and about the storm of his absence, both within and without, which, because it is unendurable, unlivable, drives us to look to the eye of the storm."Or "The Gospel as Comedy":"Sin and grace, absence and presence, tragedy and comedy, they divide the world between them and where they meet head on, the Gospel happens."You could read this book in half a day.
I love how Buechner can mashup biblical and literary characters with a 20th-century setting. Humor and compassion come through clearly.
It's been a really exciting journey to discover that what made me feel odd in one setting was the exact point of entry into a whole other party that had been going on for years without me.The gospel is a tragedy because "before it is good news, it is bad news." The gospel strips us bare (I swear, I wrote a whole talk on this two years ago and to see my own words reflected in another person's wisdom is akin to feeling an electric shock).
Then the gospel offers us a magic, something unexpected and good.
Buechner helps draw us back to experience some of that poetic and mythical quality, and even understand some of the jokes that too seriously minded folk might miss from a less imaginative reading of the gospel story.
Instead of telling the reader "about" the gospel, as a nonfiction writer would do, Buechner leads us to experience for ourselves, and thus to better understand, the elements of tragedy, comedy, and fairy tale, as we ourselves are drawn closer through these interactions to a greater appreciation for the divine.
Certain realities of daily human life that we just live with are simply 'unspokens.' The rare pastor/preacher who is real enough to actually talk about these things (like Beuchner does, especially in his stories and descriptions of people--"poor, bare, forked animals" that we are) is one who, in my experience, is popular but whose ministry seems to be very short-lived.
Perhaps this kind of stuff is too real for the pulpit, but it feels like the Gospel that is preached authentically, made the true words of life that in our wretchedness we can understand and relate to.
Simply the best book on preaching I've ever read.
Buechner uses the simple device of tragedy, comedy, and fairy tale as three pathways to the same destination: honest, truthful, and authentic preaching that is grows out of one unshakeable principle: that the preacher must tell the truth.
Buechner urges the preacher to always be truthful (and not afraid), and to be amazed at the pathos, the joy, and the discovery of grace that will be found in this decision.
It's been 30+ years since I first read the book, but I still return to it frequently, and have found his counsel to be the bedrock of great preaching.
So much going on in this very short book, it seems impossible to review without studying further.
I don't know that I always agree with Buechner, but I appreciate the spirit of what he writes.
I love how he highlights the idea that great books, classics, in all their varieties and genres spotlight aspects of the truth - show it's many facets.
And that books are always part of a larger community of writing - one book leads to another, to another, there are books within books - it's a book universe and has a deep rhythm and meaning that unites.
Loved the chapter on fairytales.
Well written and engaging. I recommend this to every preacher of the joyous message of Jesus for Buechner's insistence that they tell us about the truth that is too good to be true; about the prodigal love of a Father who can't wait to throw a good party; and about the smelly and uncomely beggar who turns out to be a powerful wizard. This book is like water in a desert for a hyper-rationalized, dour, or wonderless religion.
Grant was correct: This was an equally great book (of a different nature) from Buechner.
changed my life. reads like poetry and cuts straight to the soul.
It was truly a remarkable read.Telling the Truth is subtitled, The Gospel as Tragedy, Comedy, and Fairy Tale.
The book is split into four sections - the introduction, the gospel as tragedy, the gospel as comedy, and the gospel as fairy tale.
People try to explain God but Buechner says "they are words without knowledge that obscure the issue of God by trying to define him as present in ways and places where he is not present, to define him as moral order, as the best answer man can give to the problem of his life.
103. Tellin the Truth: The Gospel as Tragedy, Comedy, and Fairy Tale, by Frederick Buechner. 97 pages. Pastor Roger McQuistion tossed me this book during one of my church meetings with him. It is written from the POV of a writer who is also a preacher. I found it captivating because it uses literature to make its points. He begins wit Pilate as a cigarette-smoking nihilist who has a picture of Tiberius in his ‘office.’ When Chris is brought before him, he asks Jesus, “What is truth?” Of course,
Woe to him whose good name is more to him than goodness.” Melville would appall us by speaking the tragic truth of a tempestuous world where even the whiteness of a great white whale is ambiguous: standing for beauty, gladness, and holiness, and also for the whiteness of sharks.” Not so much a color, he writes, as the visible absence of color…a colorless all-color of atheism from which we shrink.” But the author also finds the gospel comedic.
I read this book every few years. It reminds me to take Wonder seriously. It is small, and rooted in the mid twentieth century which I find charming. But the idea that before there is good news there is tragedy and that it is the comedy that isn't expected--the baby born to an elderly person, the first being last, the prodigal son--it is comedy, good news. And re-embracing the fairy tale instead of making the gospel rational. Looking for the peace that passes understanding instead of just the peace that makes this life do-able.
I’ve never read Buechner before but this man can write. His prose are beautiful and he describes things with a unique quality and depth.This little work looks at the Gospel through three unique lenses. Tragedy, comedy and fairy tale. There are certain passages that I’m going to come back to because of how profoundly beautiful they are. Definitely worth a read. Profound, sobering and funny all at the same time.
Wow. Wow.
His writing is beautiful, as there is an art and poetry to how he describes the Gospel as tragedy, comedy, and fairy tale.In regards to tragedy, Buechner says that, “Before the Gospel is word, it is a silence, a kind of presenting of life itself so that we see it not for what at various times we call it – meaningless or meaningful, absurd, beautiful – but for what it truly is in all its complexity, simplicity, mystery…the preacher must somehow himself present this silence and mystery of truth by speaking what he feels, not what he ought to say, but speaking forth not only the light and the hope of it but the darkness as well, all of it, because the Gospel has to do with all of it” (page 25-26).
But poetry and sermon deal with presuppositions and even pre-presuppositions, so as Buechner talks about the truth of the Gospel in tragedy, comedy and fairy-tale, the academic mind spends the first chapter in a cold sweat - tired and terrified of the anecdotal retelling of Pilate's experience of Good Friday, wary of the poor exegesis and strongly tempted to skip the storytelling to the real intellectual meat.If you're going to read this book, you must overcome that temptation and embrace storytelling and poetry, let the words flow over you in their entirety and be prepared to meditate on God as you read, which above all else is not the kind of thing given to mindful nor manual manipulation.
I hate reading ministry books that have been polished and shined to the point that they become worthless in the real world.
There is an honesty in Buechner's writing that I think is consistent with this book's title, and more importantly, with the gospel itself.
But he uses those categories very loosely (bad news, good news, and fantastic) and at times the connections seem unhelpful or at least unclear.His creative modernization of some of the Biblical stories is one of the most fascinating parts of this book (The opening scene gives us Pilate as a cigarette-smoking skeptic with a picture of Tiberius on his office wall).
He draws a lot from Shakespeare and other great writers.
He looks at the parables and show us that really our God is a riot and that fact that we get to join in is a comedy.
Fairy Tale-seems kinda blasphemous but the point is we really need to view this with childlike faith and Believe.Great book, I'll come back to when I get weighed down with facts and to do lists for God.Caleb got it because it was spoken of highly in the Sacred Romance.
Intuition of its truth, perhaps.
My edition topped out at a mere 97 pages, and yet this is right up there with G.K. Chesterton's Orthodoxy as one of the most profound hundred pages I have ever read.I really don't know what else I can say about it.
I felt like this book read me, instead of me reading it, and that is always a startling and rather uncomfortable realization.
What an amazing book!
I need to read more by this author.
This particular book appears to have been directed to preachers or seminary students.
The copy I have I purchased "used" online and it had quite a large number of marked passages in more than one handwriting and ink color.
It was interesting to see what other people were paying attention to, but now I want a clean copy to mark myself!!
This copy also had a sticker on the back that said "Used Textbook".
I would highly recommend this book to those Christians who feel their faith mouldering instead of smouldering.
The title is an unusually straightforward description of the contents of this short book written primarily for preachers.
In the introduction he discusses how and why preachers should be transparent and truthful; then in the three main chapters describes the gospel as variously in the genres of gospel, comedy, and fairy tale.
Buechner shows how comedy, tragedy, and fairy tale--which show up in our most beloved stories everywhere because they speak so poignantly to the human condition--are embedded in the gospel in essential ways.This is a book not just for preachers, but for all who want to talk about and appreciate Christ in a winsome way.
I wound up loving this book, though I did resist it at first.
Initially, it seemed too set in the 1970s somehow for me and as an ardent Buechner reader I was a bit put off to have yet another discourse on his favorite play, King Lear in the intial section viewing the Gospel as tragedy.
And of course, it seemed that the book was directed at Protestant preachers of the Gospel, which I am not.
I found I could even respond to Buechner's compassionate love for Henry Ward Beecher.
Happily, I remain an ardent Buechner reader.
There's something hard-hitting about this book that's hard to fully explain in words.
I suppose that it's because it really challenges us to see the gospel stripped to its barest, most fundamental self.
Though only 98 pages in length, it's words speaks volumes to those called to lead within the church.
How much have we allowed our culture to shape how we go about presenting the Word of God?
Are we ready to stand up to the challenge to speak the whole gospel truth -- the bad, the good, and the audacious?
I was seriously disappointed by this book.
I've been wanting to read something by Buechner for some time because of high recommendations from friends and discovered this book on my shelf (a gift from someone?).
The book is highly self-indulgent, and to be honest, I'm not really sure what the point was.
It's a little book that looks at tragedy, comedy, and fairy tale, ostensibly showing that "the gospel" is all of these.
But I found it somewhat tedious and not very insightful.
He made lots of reference to King Lear and in the last chapter to the Wizard of Oz, and lots of reference to poems and so on, but not with any clear focus.
A hidden gem that deserves more of a legacy than it gets. You might want to review the New Testament and King Lear before picking it up.
Out of the silence let the only real news come, which is sad news before it is glad news and that is fairy tale last of all.The preacher is not brave enough to be literally silent for long, and since it is his calling to speak the truth with love, even if he were brave enough, he would not be silent for long because we are none of us very good at silence.
Heard as a joke - high and unbidden and ringing with laughter - it can only be God's thing.With his fabulous tale to proclaim, the preacher is called in his turn to stand up in his pulpit as fabulist extraordinary, to tell the truth of the Gospel in it highest and wildest and holiest sense.
