https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2233867.Essays_of_Robert_Louis_Stevenson
A couple amazing essays, a couple bad ones, several that are mediocre.
The writing, of course, is great throughout, so the degree to which I enjoyed any particular essay is entirely related to how interesting I found each topic.
APOLOGY FOR IDLERS and AES TRIPLEX are two of the best essays I've ever read, both in terms of writing and subject matter.
A GOSSIP ON ROMANCE and BOOKS WHICH HAVE INFLUENCED ME are good if you are interested in old books and the literary development of R.L.S. The rest of the essays in this collection, I could take or leave.
Irrepressibly optimistic in character.This collection covers a range of topics, essays on love, death, his hatred of stuffy drawing rooms and preference for discourse outside.
Unpleasant places educate the sensibilities.
Workers are resentful of the idle person, ‘lying with a handkerchief over their ears and a glass at their elbow.' 'If you look back on your own education, I am sure it will not be the full, vivid, instructive hours of truantry that you regret; you would rather cancel some lack lustre periods between sleep and waking in the class'.
Stevenson learned a lot in the classroom scraps of information but street knowledge is more important when playing truant.
Stevenson exudes an adventurer's constitution. I was drawn in especially after listening to his essay on walking. He is humorous and perceptive. He has much to say worth pondering.
This would not have been my first choice of reading material, but since the last week has been broken up and I "needed" to read an essay anthology, I decided to get this off my TBR list. There were bits and pieces in here that I found interesting and/or amusing, but the rest I could have done without. I'm not usually one to read essays, but if I do it has to be by a favorite author and/or someone I admire and respect a great deal.
A really interesting collection of essays that provides a far greater insight into this author's thoughts and ideas than any biography could.
I finished them and am already planning on a re-read sometime in the future.
The most enjoyable ones, and those I would feel inclined to pass on to others, were "On the Enjoyment of Unpleasant Places", "An Apology for Idlers", "Talk and Talkers" as well as "Books which Have Influenced Me".I found the footnotes to be illuminating in many cases, but also archaic in many others.
The editor has a very definite tone when he moves away from explaining items from Stevenson's texts, and instead presents generalizations and opinions about literature and some other topics that are very old fashioned indeed.
Exceptional essayist. He writes of how he discovered that one can become satisfied anywhere, even in the windy alcove of a barren coastline, but he still managed to travel the world with a debilitating lung condition.I wish we could shake even more Scottsmen in the rain, then shake them out again in a pub somewhere. You must visit the museum in Edinburgh dedicated to Stevenson's short life.
Brilliant writing: I found myself easily being 'transported' in the Stevenson's beautifully crafted prose. He was one of the select few masters of the English language as it was.
The ideas were great and the writing was prett, but it's age made the vocabulary unintuitive toMe and I didn't understand the 19th century references.
Decent
