https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13644385-porcelain-and-pink
This little play is proof why I love Fitzgerald's words so much!
Call me crazy or frivolous with my rating but this one act play had me cracking up! I love Julie. I can be Julie myself someday. It's the wittiest, funniest thing I have read in a long time and was worth every minute I spent reading it. Go for it if you're looking for a reason to laugh and go for it if you like to celebrate wit!
A witty funny girl in a bathtub XD A very light and entertaining read.
Fitzgerald is clearly having immense fun, but all we get a century later are a few lame puns, fit only for a nervous, twittery contemporary audience; a mistaken identity incident when the beau of the bather's sister hears (but does not see) her through a well placed window and starts to make love to her; and some more frivolous fun with the fact that, well, there's a (possibly!) naked actress on stage.The play did cause the intended stir at the time, but can only be of interest today as a period piece.
Pretty funny. To me the levity and verve is genius. Like in his Bernice Bobs Her Hair, Fitzgerald is hilarious in this short one-act play. It is rambunctious like the song "Anything Goes" and captures some of the laughing, energetic wit of that time.
Listened to the LivreVox version. Delightful 20 minutes twice for a 40-minute walk. Very funny.
Funny little play by the great Fitzgerald! This is one nice story. Characters are well built, interesting and the set is hilarious! Love the comment on the mentality at the time. Simple, straightforward and comical. A must read ❤️
A humorous one act play that was probably also shocking in the 1920's. It takes place in a bathroom with one of the characters in a bathtub . . . almost the whole time. Fitzgerald gives a good sense of all three characters in a short, twenty minutes. Very enjoyable.
What I would give to have been alive in the Jazz age. Very funny, witty. And I love Julia.
it is interesting for sure.
This was my favorite episode of Public Domain Theater to date. Whether that has to do with the people on the podcast or the content of the play is anyone's guess.
A funny dialogue with some nice puns. Poor Lois though.
Given that F. Scott Fitzgerald wrote *Porcelain and Pink* in 1922, it was downright "scandalous"!! A lovely young woman lounges in a porcelain tub filled with hot water while conversing with . . . well, it's an absolutely delightful short read. Note: If you've never had the "decadent" pleasure of a long soak in a shoulder-high porcelain tub, I HIGHLY recommend that you seek one out!!
THE YOUNG MAN: What color are you wearing?JULIE: (After a critical survey of her shoulders) Why, I guess it's a sort of pinkish white.THE YOUNG MAN: Is it becoming to you?JULIE: Very. It's—it's old. I've had it for a long while.THE YOUNG MAN: I thought you hated old clothes.JULIE: I do but this was a birthday present and I sort of have to wear it.
“Porcelain and Pink” is a comic one-act play from the 1922 short story collection Tales of the Jazz Age. The plot involves a young woman in a bathtub and a case of mistaken identity. Light entertainment.
This is hilarious and lighthearted, plus it's a quick read, so there's really no reason to skip it. Really, it's down right silly, so the story is easy to understand, unlike many other Fitzgerald short stories.
A rather short but entertaining one act play by Fitzgerald...
Light and witty story; a nice read with a typical mistaken identity case.
Cute, one-act play. Predictable, but humorous.
Funny and light amuse-bouche...
It is entertaining. But it came off a little too over the top and silly for me. It would be interesting to see it performed. I think it would be a better experience than reading it.
Well , this was cute and fun !
2.5 stars
