https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/563820.A_Child_s_Christmas_in_Wales
And yet he came up with this beautiful, lyrical tribute to his childhood Christmases in the coastal town of Swansea, Wales, in the early 1900's, "before the motor-car, before the wheel, before the duchess-faced horse, when we rode the daft and happy hills bareback, it snowed and snowed." There's no real structure to this short book; it's more a grab bag of random childhood Christmastime stories, filled with boys' mischief, Useful Presents ("mittens made for giant sloths; ...
This is a lovely picture book illustrated by Chris Raschka of the familiar (but now forgotten by many?) tale written by Welsh poet Dylan Thomas ("Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night") that is always good to read around the holidays.
The watercolor art is not as soft and inviting as one might expect from such a nostalgic project; it's more an abstract expressionistic depiction of the world of Thomas's tale, but it's colorful and joyful, nevertheless.
if you haven't heard it for some time, or never have, here is a recording of Thomas himself reading it in February 1952!
I need more Dylan Thomas in my life!I was unaware of this fact until today, having never read his stuff before aside from "Do not go gentle into that good night" some 30 or so years ago.
Beautiful stuff!"A Child's Christmas in Wales" is very much like a more lyrical version of Jean Shepherd's "A Christmas Story".
With that in mind, to me, Thomas' recollections on Christmas seem to contain the same kind of child-like wonder and frivolity.
I loved it!"A Child's Christmas in Wales" the poem-story heads up A Child's Christmas in Wales the collection, which also includes "Do not go gentle into that good night", among others.
I picked this as an accessible introduction to Dylan's work. A delicate prose poem that proceeds liltingly until the child and the adult versions collides head on, subtly, magnificently bringing about the conclusion.
I read this over at https://www.poemhunter.com/best-poems... and also treated myself to a listen over on You Tube of Thomas reading this himself. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Hoxy... I normally hate being read to but it is impossible to hate this beautifully vibrating voice breathing even more life into this work. I've never read nostalgia so well realised & I loved the gentle humour.Here is a quote dear to a Goodreader's heart. And when the firemen turned off the hose and were standing
I read this over at https://www.poemhunter.com/best-poems...
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Hoxy...
I've never read nostalgia so well realised & I loved the gentle humour.Here is a quote dear to a Goodreader's heart.
And when the firemen turned off the hose and were standing in the wet, smoky room, Jim's Aunt, Miss.
Jim and I waited, very quietly, to hear what she would say to them.
She looked at the three tall firemen in their shining helmets, standing among the smoke and cinders and dissolving snowballs, and she said, "Would you like anything to read?”
Wishing all my Goodreads friends A Very Merry Christmas and a Literary 2018!
One Christmas was so much like another, in those years around the sea-town corner now and out of all sound except the distant speaking of the voices I sometimes hear a moment before sleep, that I can never remember whether it snowed for six days and six nights when I was twelve or whether it snowed for twelve days and twelve nights when I was six. All the Christmases roll down toward the two-tongued sea, like a cold and headlong moon bundling down the sky that was our street; and they stop at t
All the Christmases roll down toward the two-tongued sea, like a cold and headlong moon bundling down the sky that was our street; and they stop at the rim of the ice-edged, fish-freezing waves, and I plunge my hands in the snow and bring out whatever I can find.
In goes my hand into that wool-white bell-tongued ball of holidays resting at the rim of the carol-singing sea, ...
It is a yearly tradition that I indulge in; and indeed listen to, and re-read a few times over the Christmas season, for the lovely sing-song cadence of his words, written and spoken.'Tis wizardry that he employs, for I am utterly bewitched, each and every time.
All the Christmases roll toward the two-tongued sea, like a cold and headlong moon bundling down the sky that was our street; and they stop at the rim of the ice-edged, fish-freezing waves, and I plunge my hands in the snow and bring out whatever I can find.How did I, a huge fan of Christmas and celebrations in general, manage to ignore this book for so long?Not a clue - but it was THIS version with illustrations by the marvelous Chris Raschkathat finally convinced me to dig in.This is a happy tale that is fun-filled and warm, despite, or maybe because of, the dark and constantly snow-spewing skies.
I realize, now, that Dylan Thomas has been trying to capture my attention for 41 years. Sorry it took so long. I'm here now. Let's proceed.
Classic memories of Christmas from a bygone era. Oh what fun! Thomas did radio performances and recorded this in 1952; it was published in book form in 1954. This edition was beautifully illustrated by Trina Schart Hyman.
“One Christmas was so much like another, in those years around the sea-town corner now and out of all sound except the distant speaking of the voices I sometimes hear a moment before sleep, that I can never remember whether it snowed for six days and six nights when I was twelve or whether it snowed for twelve days and twelve nights when I was six.” While this story by Dylan’s is wonderful when read, you will find it more special when listening to it being read by Dylan Thomas, but my own audio version claims it was narrated by Michael Clarke Lawrence.
Reread.A humorous, nostalgic tale of Christmas Eve afternoon through Christmas night, full of unique imagery and lovely phrasing.Perhaps it's because I watched parts of the movie 'A Christmas Story' on Christmas Eve that I was reminded of Ralphie as I read this tonight-- even if there is no BB gun.
But This little book, with its cadenced prose enchanted me with its music of words and powerful visualization so that I could hear "distant speaking of the voices," "the carol-singing sea," "the muffling silence of the eternal snows," and the rumbling and mumbling of aunts and uncles and their music; could smell the two-tongued sea and the scent of a warm crowded house in deep winter; could peek from a corner and see how children patiently waited to throw their snowballs at an unfortunate cat.
Could see the four children standing in front of a "black bulk of a house" in a moonless night, shivering with cold and fear, but trying to look brave and sing a Christmas carol.

My understanding is this is a British Christmas classic. I've been reading it to my children for several years now at Christmas time. It's such a delightful story and so beautifully told. If you want to re-live the nostalgic Christmas past I highly recommend you read this short story.
Listen to the master read: http://www.dailymotion.com/video/xfpf...

Extra star added due to John Cale. Google it. Knowing what I do of his adult life, I really hope Thomas experienced this close holiness. All I ever got was the Licking of the Lard Spoon and Hell Awaits on repeat. Oh, and fucking Aerosmith tickets one year. I fucking HATE Aerosmith! Thanks for nothing, Ma!!!
From December 2013:One of the surprises that I received this year was the poetry (and voice) of Dylan Thomas.
As good as Thomas' poetry is, it was his voice that has captivated me.
I think this voice is what most young American kids thought the British nobility sounded like.
This prose is a simple recollection of various memories of Thomas' Christmas as a child.
He is able to paint a picture of the scene in your head and I found myself almost seeing my own image in the vignettes being described.
In all, this piece feels you with nostalgia and makes you really long for that Christmas you spent in Swansea.
Less a story than a series of snapshots that accumulate to present a funny, poignant and always nostalgic view of childhood Christmases, the joy is in the beautiful language, the magnificent imagery and the way that every sense is awakened.“Years and years ago, when I was a boy, when there were wolves in Wales, and birds the color of red-flannel petticoats whisked past the harp-shaped hills, when we sang and wallowed all night and day in caves that smelt like Sunday afternoons in damp front farmhouse parlors, and we chased, with the jawbones of deacons, the English and the bears, before the motor car, before the wheel, before the duchess-faced horse, when we rode the daft and happy hills bareback, it snowed and it snowed.”2014 marked the centenary of the birth of the great Welsh poet, Dylan Thomas.
Dylan Thomas is a Welsh poet known for his poem, "Do not go gently into that good night." I am thrilled to learn he has written a prose poem about Christmas.
This tiny book described his experience of Christmas "years and years ago, when (he) was a boy" in Wales.
It contained some truly lush and beautiful lines about snow and captured the nostalgia associated with Christmas at a time when life was relatively simpler.If you love poetry, you will most certainly find this an enchanting treat.
This was a lovely book and a perfect book to read on the first day of Advent. Very nostalgic, it definitely made me think of my childhood Christmases and how magical they seemed to me.
An evocation of a child's Christmas in Wales within the realm of memory. It is beautiful, warm, embracing, funny and seemingly filled with true glimpses of Dylan Thomas' childhood. It is short, but very rich and flows with rivers merging prose and poetry. Lovely! Highly recommended! Dylan Thomas reads his own story here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hv4-s...5/5

A lovely little book. Trina Schart Hyman's illustration captured the essence of the story. I especially loved the cats peeking out in most of the pictures and the illustration of the postman "With sprinkling eyes and wind-cherried nose." This book has convinced me that I would like to read more Dylan Thomas, perhaps some of his poetry.
There is a wonderful sense of humor here, especially in some of the descriptions of the aunts and uncles who come to visit, and a poignant sense of a world and a time - the world and time of childhood - now lost.Apparently based upon some recordings that Dylan Thomas did for the BBC, A Child's Christmas in Wales is one of those holiday classics I have been meaning to read for years.
A poetic novella of Christmas reminiscences as a young boy, beautifully written and exquisitely illustrated. The illustrations really lift this above the ordinary cute holiday tale.
My mother introduced to me to this book. I think she got it for herself first. Her (Jewish) mother was born in Wales, and, even though my mother was born in Canada, I think she always felt part Welsh. I liked this book when I first read it/had it read to me, although not as much as my mother did. I think I have liked it more as an adult, after learning more about Dylan Thomas’s life & work.
A nice book telling the tale of the adventures and traditions that a boy has for Christmas.
Lovely story. Thanks to Petra and Bettie for sharing this marvelous Christmas book.
Delightful. Dylan Thomas is amazing to listen to. A feast for the senses.
